The University of Central Florida’s running game hit its stride last Saturday versus Cincinnati – red-shirt freshman running back C.J. Jones had the longest rush of the season with a 51-yard run and then punched it in for a 1-yard touchdown, the team’s first touchdown by a running back this season.
The freshman had what amounted to a career best of 123 yards on 18 carries. That’s the best performance by a running back this season for UCF and propels Jones into leading the team in rushing with 274 yards.
“C.J. has got a lot of reps because of the injuries to Dontravious and Will leaving the football program,” Interim Head Coach Danny Barrett said at Monday afternoon’s press conference. “So he’s done a good job and it’s really starting to show. Just his confidence level, especially when being able to break tackles on a 50 yard run, we hadn’t seen that all year.”
The Knights had a total of 212 rushing yards; their best mark of the year and only the second time that the team has gone over 100 rushing yards. The last time was against FCS Furman when they amassed 171 yards rushing.
Coach Barrett accredits the success of the running game to going back to the fundamentals, the o-line, and a general focus on running the ball.
“It really came down to the fundamentals of running the football and focusing in on that,” Barrett said. “Our running game kicked in, it just wasn’t as consistent enough to keep them off the football field. “
“Our offensive line this past game put in their mind, ’they really wanted to get in people’s face, keep their pad level down and moving people of the football field,” Barrett said.
Fifth year senior H-back and captain, Joseph Puopolo was also convinced that simplifying the running game back to what was almost second nature to the players was crucial.
“Towards the end of the game when we we’re moving the ball, we were going back to the stuff that we ran a while ago, that we didn’t even really practice this week,” Puopolo said. “So I mean we just went back to the basics of what we were running in this program, what we’ve been running since I’ve been here, five years ago.”
With junior quarterback Justin Holman struggling since his return from a hand injury, the Knights need to continue to focus heavily on running the ball against Tulsa this Saturday.
“We’re gonna continue to run the ball,” Barrett said. “This program has been built on that and we’ll continue to do those fundamental things to give ourselves a chance at the end of the day.”



Tonight at Knight’s Library at 7 p.m., a new bystander intervention program will be launched to help bar staff recognize when their customers may be in a hazardous situation and teach them how to respond appropriately, according to UCF Police.
The program first launched downtown earlier this fall and was put into place to teach bar staff bystander intervention that related to harassment, sexual assault, and other crimes.
The training is a partnership among UCF Victim Services, the Victim Service Center of Orlando, and the Orlando Police Department.
“This is a program we’ve talked about for a long time because we know our students are a vulnerable population, and we’re excited to be training people who can advocate for their safety. Participants will learn about common characteristics of perpetrators and targets, and they’ll gain an understanding of how they can safely and successfully intervene,” said UCFPD spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin. 



A local pizza place near the University of Central Florida received a trick rather than a treat the morning after Halloween.
Flippers Pizzeria was broken into and money was stolen from the restaurant, according to Assistant General Manager Evan Klein.
Klein explained that someone broke the door to the restaurant and the window right next to it. He said that whoever did it then went into the restaurant and stole $200 from the bank deposit.
The incident occurred around the hours of 3-4 a.m. on Sunday, Klein said.
The restaurant dusted for fingerprints but could not locate any, according to Klein.
Luckily, no one was in the pizzeria when the break in happened. Klein said he received a call from police officers at around 7 a.m. regarding the incident.
KnightNews.com is waiting for reports from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. Check back for updates.



Former University of Central Florida catcher Drew Butera made UCF history by becoming the first Knight to become a world champion.
The Kansas City Royals won their first world series title since 1985. Butera caught the final three outs.
The Royals defeated the New York Mets 7-2 in the twelfth inning.
Champions!!! #WorldSeries…. doesn't get anything better than this pic.twitter.com/l9t9aSYsgN
— Drew Butera (@drewbutera) November 2, 2015

Butera was a catcher for UCF Baseball and was drafted to the New York Mets from UCF in the fifth round of the 2005 Major League Baseball Draft.
Other teams Butera has played for include the Minnesota Twins, Los Angeles Dodgers and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.
Butera was also picked by the Toronto Blue Jays in the forty-seventh round of the 2002 Major League Baseball Draft when he graduated high school but decided to not sign.

Drew Butera is the first Knight to be a WORLD CHAMPION!!!He caught the final three outs to help the Royals win the #WorldSeries. #TakeTheCrown#BuiltByUCF | #ChargeOn | #UCF
Posted by UCF Baseball on Sunday, November 1, 2015



Some Knight fans will be trading in their thanksgiving meal at a table for a holiday tailgate…
Reservations for the University of Central Florida Knights vs. University of South Florida Bulls football game will open today, Monday Nov. 2 at 10 a.m.
The game will be held Thanksgiving day, Nov. 26 with a 7:30 p.m. kickoff. Tailgating begins at noon.
Reservations are available through the Knights on the Mall website, where students and alumni can select their free tailgate spot.
“The spots are popular and tend to go quickly, so plan accordingly. If you’re not able to reserve a spot, there’s still a chance: Reserved spaces with cancellations or no-shows will become available on a first-come, first-served basis the afternoon of each game,” according to a news release.
A few spaces in the alumni section of Memory Mall for the East Carolina game on Thursday, Nov. 19 are still available as well.
Kick off for the East Carolina game will also be at 7:30 p.m. with tailgate beginning at 4 p.m.
Fans may purchase parking in Garage H for $20 on game days. The profits collected will fund scholarships for first-generation students.
The only spots on campus that can be reserved for tailgate are those on Memory Mall. The rest of the campus tailgate is first-come, first-served.
Knights on the Mall is an initiative started by UCF Student Government Association this football season to bring reserved tailgate spots, as well as food an entertainment, to the pre-game experience.
For more information about Knight on the Mall, check out the program’s Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.
Photo credit: Aileen Perilla



