Approximately 130 University of Central Florida Students participated on Feb. 20 in the thirteenth annual Adventure Race hosted by UCF’s Recreation and Wellness Center.
The race took place at seven locations all across the UCF main campus starting and ending at Lake Claire’s pavilion. It began at 9 a.m. and lasted until approximately 1:30 p.m. and was consisted of events including kayaking, a challenge course, rock climbing and other outdoor activities.
Thirty-one teams of four competed and a team of three were present for the whole race but were ineligible to win due to a lack of a fourth member. 
As one of UCF’s biggest days of outdoor fun, students were engaged in multiple challenges that tested their team’s speed and determination to finish and win the race.
The Random Meta ChGs, a team of graduate students, were the winners of the race with a time stamp of one hour, forty minutes and thirty seconds. The team comprised of Colin Constant, Rafael Guzman, Laura Sisken and Abraham Vazquez. All four individuals on the winning team are students in the college of optics and photonics.
“It was a good time and a lot of fun,“ Constant said. “I like having a goal, doing active stuff, working in a team and solving puzzles.”
According to the winning team, they collectively agreed they didn’t expect to come in first place and that the win came as a shock.
Besides a rigorous workout and a good time, contestants of the race received a complimentary Adventure Race T-shirt along with other freebies including stickers, water bottles and pizza from Lazy Moon. Prize packages were awarded to the first six teams to finish the race and those six were able to select their prize as a team in the order they finished.
After all teams crossed the finish line, the event concluded with a raffle and a winner for most creative photo using the #adventureknights hashtag. Prizes for the raffle included outdoor tools and accessories, and three Adidas giftcards valued at $225 collectively.
Alisha Hardsaw, a junior and winner of the $100 Adidas giftcard, was ecstatic to win as two of her teammates left early and gave her their raffle tickets.
“Our other teammates left early and they were like, ‘I hope you win something with our tickets,’“ Hardsaw said. “I’ve never won anything before.”
Once the raffle completed, the RWC awarded a Kind granola bars package and the title of the most creative photo to the team of three who weren’t eligible to win the race. 
The winning photo depicted Ashley Allen, a member of the smaller team, in the backseat of a UCF police car with the caption, ‘when you get in trouble for jaywalking.’ According to Allen, the photo was completely posed.
“My teammate thought it would be a funny picture. Since we only had a team of three we weren’t allowed to win just because we had less people than the requirements so we set a goal of trying to win the photo contest instead,“ Allen said.
Photos from the event can be found on UCF’s Recreation and Wellness Facebook page along with the hashtag #adventureknights on Instagram.
Photo credit: Lauren Pierce



“Brother, for you to get hurt, I’ll have to die first.”
These words exemplify the treatment retired Brigadier General Ernie Audino received in the hands of Kurdish Peshmerga fighters during his time embedded in Iraq.
Gen. Audino recalled this quote, along with various other narratives during his time in  Iraqi Kurdistan in 2005 and 2006, during a presentation of the LIFE Global Issues Series in the Pegasus Ballroom on Tuesday.
The Kurds are an ethnic minority located primarily in northern Iraq and Syria. Having escaped near-genocide under the rule of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, they are now spearheading the local Iraqi and Syrian efforts to combat the Islamic State. Known for striking fear into the hearts of militants by using women fighters, Kurdish soldiers are known as Peshmerga, or “those who confront death”.
A graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, Gen. Audino says his love for the Kurdish people developed in 2002 while studying the Middle East under the instruction of former ambassador Peter Galbraith at the National War College in Washington, D.C. After receiving orders to embed in Kurdistan as an advisor, the Kurds made him feel at home, as much as is possible in a war zone.
“They treated me like a brother, like a son, like a father,” Gen. Audino recalled. “They have become the most open, loving, accommodating people in that region. They would tell me, ‘every American soldier should have his statue cast in gold.’”
Gen. Audino attended most of the funerals for the twenty-two Peshmerga fighters killed during his tour in Kurdistan. However, he points out that no American has ever died in Kurdish-controlled territory.



The University of Central Florida has been sued again over the data breach that took the social security numbers of 63,000 students, alumni and faculty, according to WFTV.
WFTV reported that former student and manager of the men’s basketball team Jeremiah Hughley filed the lawsuit.
Hughley told WFTV the way UCF handled people’s private information was “lackadaisical, cavalier, reckless, or at the very least, negligent.”
“The lawsuit, which seeks more than $15,000, accuses the university of not doing enough to help the victims and prompting Hughley to buy additional identity theft protection at his own expense,” WTFV reported.
Hughley’s bank account was “drained” when his information was taken, according to the lawsuit retrieved by WFTV.
“The lawsuit said the breach occurred because the university did not follow best practices and industry standards by keeping information unencrypted as well as improperly handling and storing the information,” WFTV reported.
Two other UCF alumni filed a lawsuit against UCF at the beginning of the month.
The intrusion into UCF’s network happened in January. An email release informing the university was sent out on Feb. 4.



