Many athletes coming out of high school strive to be highly recruited in one sport; almost no student athletes have the luxury of being heavily recruited in two different sports.
Most student athletes do not have the talent UCF tight end Jordan Akins has.
The Atlanta native attended Union Grove High School and Strong Rock Christian School, where he was a star playing football, baseball, and basketball.
Akins was named all-conference his sophomore year in football. To follow that season, Akins transferred to Strong Rock Christian School where he earned all-state honors. Akins than transferred back to Union Grove for his senior season where he was an all-state team selection for a second straight year.
Akins attracted offers from prominent SEC and ACC schools like Tennessee, Georgia Tech, LSU, and the hometown Georgia Bulldogs.
Despite big-name schools showing interest in Akins, he had a verbal commitment to UCF and was a member of the 2010 UCF football signing class.
“Between football and baseball I had colleges bashing me,” Akins said. “I really just felt pressure to go to the University of Georgia and the Florida’s. I just felt like everyone was pressuring me like ‘Oh, you’re going to here; you’re going to go there.’ And UCF was a perfect fit. I came down here for junior day to tag along and I really liked the facility and I really liked the vibes of the coaches and the players. It became one of my interests.”
Football wasn’t the only passion for Akins though.
Akins had been playing baseball since he was 3 years old and always had a dream of playing professionally.
“Baseball was always my dream,” Akins said. “I played a lot of travel ball, played against Bryce Harper and Delino DeShields. I really got my name out there and I always told my parents if I get my chance to chase my dream–getting drafted out of high school–and if I got drafted in the top five rounds, I would probably take my chance playing baseball.”
And that’s what happened June 20, 2010.
Akins was selected by the Texas Rangers in the third round of the 2010 MLB Draft straight out of high school.
Despite being a member of the 2010 UCF football signing class, Akins signed a deal that included a $350,000 signing bonus with the Rangers.
“I let [George] O’Leary know,” Akins said. “I let everyone know my plan so when it came it wasn’t really a shocker to anyone. I left on really good terms and told him if I did return I would come play for him.”
Akins played four seasons in Minor League Baseball with three different teams. In 321 games, Akins hit .218 with 24 homeruns.
Akins always kept his passion for football and decided to call baseball quits when a 2013 Rangers Rule 5 Draft selection came and talked with the team.
“Russell Wilson came to spring training and talked to the team,” Akins said. “The floor was open for questions and I asked him when he knew it what the right time for him to go back and he said it was just a gut feeling. Right then I had been having this gut feeling for about a year so I knew right then and there it was time to go.”
Akins retired from Minor League Baseball on March 27, 2014 and joined the Knights shortly after.
The transition back to football was a lot of hard work, but Akins is grateful to be back playing a game he loves in a community he feels at home in.
“It’s been a blessing,” Akins said. “I came back and won my first ring ever with O’Leary and it was a great feeling. It was extra hard work, O’Leary was old school and tough, but I’m used to that background; Georgia, smash-mouth football. So I really enjoyed it.”
Akins as a 22-year-old true freshman, made his contribution to the team as a receiver and in special teams. He tallied 498 all-purpose yards in route to a 9-4 season for the Knights which included winning the American Athletic Conference east division.
Akins started his sophomore campaign developing into the Knights’ go-to receiver. In two games, Akins combined for 14 receptions, 152 yards and two touchdowns.
Unfortunately in week three of the 2015 season, his year came to an end.
Akins tore his ACL on the opening kickoff against Furman. What looked to be a standout season for the receiver, ended in heartbreak.
“It was devastating,” Akins said. “I was really looking forward to that season and I know I could have helped the team a lot more than what happened and how we finished. It was a humbling experience. Going into the rehab, it was so painful at first. Just going through it, it was a painful rehab but the more I rehab, the stronger I felt myself getting and the better I felt my body healing.”
Despite being medically cleared after a successful rehab, Akins is wearing a brace on his surgically repaired knee due to the doctor’s request.
Not only is Akins coming off a season-ending injury that caused him to miss nine games last season, but he is also being asked to switch positions.
In head coach Scott Frost’s offensive system, the 6-foot-3, 237 pounder will transition to tight end; a move Akins doesn’t mind as long as it helps the team.
“Making the transition now, playing tight end, with Coach Frost coming in, it’s just doing whatever I can do to help the team,” Akins said. “If he wants me playing tight end, I’m here playing tight end. Covering crack blocks, doing whatever I got to do to win.”
Akins’ contributions to the team’s success this season are apparent. He is second on the team in receiving yards with 278 and second in receiving touchdowns with two.
The 24-year-old redshirt sophomore has two more years of eligibility and will do whatever it takes to make it professionally in this sport.
“If God’s willing, [the goal is] to play a couple of years in the NFL. It just depends on how the NFL goes. I just don’t know, however it works out and plays out it’ll play out.”
Despite what happens with his football career, Akins has aspirations beyond the playing field.
“Starting a business … sporting goods,” Akins said. “Hopefully one day buy me a branch off ESPN and start a little bit of commentating; basically every athlete’s dream. Really just help a lot of people, give a lot of people jobs who really don’t have a shot who have degrees and have an education.
Whether it’s the NFL or ESPN in Akins’ future, he has his mind on education.
“Whether I’m in the NFL, before or after,” Akins said. “I plan on getting a degree.”



On November 9, 2016, the University of Central Florida’s chapter of Progressive Black Men Inc. (PBM) hosted their first ever Miss Progressive Black Men Inaugural Pageant. PBM is an organization on campus that aims to reduce the negative stereotypes associated with men of African descent particularly African-American men. Moreover, the organization’s mission is to empower minority communities through community service initiatives. With this in mind, the contestants of the pageant (females) each had a platform to positively impact their community.
The event was hosted by Terrence Johnson and Carl Hughes. They were a charismatic bunch who kept the audience entertained throughout the evening. There was a panel of six judges which included Kensington Shields, Rachel Kennedy, Anjella Warshuis, Franklin Soares, Whitney Watkins, and Scott Soliz. The directors of the pageant were Courtney Handy and Kelsey Jay. The coordinators were Jamal Baskin, Carl Hughes, Stanley Pierre, and Robert Holland.

The evening began with an introductory performance in which the candidates all joined together to do a choreographed dance to a medley of songs.
Proceeding that, was the introduction of the six candidates.
Candidate 1 was Ciera Cooper, a junior health science major, from Orlando, Florida. She aspires to pursue a career as an orthodontist. Her slogan was “A healthy child begins with a smile!”
Candidate 2 was Annette Montgomery, a sophomore human communications major, from Miami, Florida who wants to pursue a broadcast career. Her slogan was U.N.I.T.E. children on Autism.
Candidate 3 was Jalissa Neal, a freshman entertainment management major, from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida who hopes to be an executive producer in the future. Her slogan was “Shatter the Silence, Stop the Violence.”
Candidate 4 was Leana Francois, a junior English Language Arts Education major, from Palm Beach, Florida. She hopes to become an effective and non-conventional English professor. Her slogan was “Allowing individuality and visibility.”
Candidate 5 was Isel Bedgood, a senior political science major, from Miramar, Florida. She aspires to go to law school and eventually become a Congresswoman. Her slogan was “Black is Beautiful!”
Candidate 6 was Me’Nisha Jones, a senior psychology major, from Jacksonville, Florida. She wants to go into veterinary medicine and one day open an animal hospital. Her slogan was “Building Youth, Not Prisons.”
After each candidate was introduced, the talent portion of the night was administered. Candidate 1, Ciera, performed a spoken word piece on “What Is A Queen?”. While she spoke, an artist painted a picture depicting her interpretation of the words of what a queen is.
Candidate 2, Annette did an intriguing twirl rendition to the popular line dancing song “Cha-Cha Slide.”
Candidate 3, Jalissa’s talent was singing Sound of Blackness’s hit song “Hold On, (Change is Coming) accompanied by members of the Gospel and Cultural Choir. After singing, she made sure to include uplifting words to persevere through difficult times.
Candidate 4,  Leana Francois performed a high-energy dance routine with a partner on the evolution of hip-hop. The song selection for the dance went all the way from Run D.M.C. “It’s Tricky” to “Juju on the Beat.”
Candidate 5, Isel showed off her musical talent by playing three songs on the acoustic guitar which included the famous hymnal “Amazing Grace.”
Candidate 6, Me’Nisha took a unique and spiritual take on her talent by performing a “praise dance” to a powerful uplifting gospel song.
After the audience was captivated by the immense amount of talent showcased, the next sector of the pageant was the presentation of the candidate’s platforms.
Candidate One’s (Ciera Cooper) platform was “Oral Hygiene Amongst Minority Youth”. She started off her proposal with shocking statistics about minority children and the relationship with the high level of teeth decay. She wants to promote oral health in minority youth by setting up community service events to educate children on oral hygiene.
Candidate Two’s (Annette Montgomery) platform was “Understanding the need to Inform, Teach, and Educate children on Autism.”  She plans to inform children on autism by pairing children who do not have autism with those who do in order for them to learn from each other and foster healthy relationships amongst each other.
Candidate Three’s (Jalissa Neal) platform was “Domestic Violence Awareness.”  She shared a personal story of how she was impacted by domestic violence through the death of her cousin. Her proposal was to start a social media campaign: #RealLoveDoesn’tHurt. Additionally, she would  go to high schools to teach students and discuss domestic violence.
Candidate Four’s (Leana Francois) platform was “Creativity in Education.” She would implement a two-week trial aftercare program in which students would be encouraged to actively spend time on creativity. For example, instead of a conventional after school program where children would simply watch a movie at the end of the day, she would suggest that they make up a song that highlights what they are learning in school.
Candidate Five’s (Isel Bedgood) platform was “Black History in the classroom.”  She wants to initiate curriculum that focuses on in-depth knowledge of black history. She feels that this will encourage minority children’s appreciation of their heritage, as well as break the foundation of racism.
Candidate Six’s (Me’Nisha Jones) platform was “Juvenile Incarceration.” Her proposal is the UCF P.R.O.M.I.S.E. Act which stands for things such as “Prison Reduction Through Opportunity Mentoring and Education.” The campaign would essentially be to go to local schools, and Boys and Girls Clubs to initiate alternative recreational programs for adolescents that will prevent them from engaging in criminal activity.
Once their platforms were announced, the candidates engaged in a “debate.” They were each asked questions by the judges in relation to their platform.
Afterward, the candidates participated in a formal wear sector of the night. Candidate 1 wore a stunning burgundy gown with gold accents. Candidate 2 wore a glamorous mauve colored bedazzled gown. Candidate 3 wore a strapless gold-toned sequined gown. Candidate 4 wore an eccentric bubblegum pink high/low dress with large ruffles in the front. Candidate 5 wore a mesmerizing silver and red sequined dress. Last but not least, Candidate 6 wore a royal blue dress with midriff cut-outs.
Finally, the winner of the evening was ready to be announced. First and foremost, the runner-up or Miss Emerald was Candidate 6, Me’Nisha Jones.  However, the winner who was crowned Miss Progressive Black Men Inc. was Candidate 2, Annette Montgomery.
All in all, the evening was  an inspiring  way to showcase intelligent, beautiful young black women attempting to make their community better through their platforms.
 



