The Florida Board of Governors approved UCF’s plans for a new downtown Orlando campus on Wednesday afternoon. The board’s chairman said the new project “will create a pathway to success for our students and good return on investment for our state.”
UCF President John Hitt said in the presentation that the planning process for the new campus has been going on for the last two years and that today made it all worth it.
“Twenty-four years ago yesterday, I became UCF’s president. In all the years since, few moments have been as important as today,” said Hitt. “Today, we can plant a seed in downtown Orlando that will benefit our students, community and state for decades to come.”
UCF has earned $16 million in community support to help fund the new academic building that will serve nearly 7,700 UCF and Valencia students, according to a press release sent out by UCF.
UCF is planning to raise $20 million total from the community to go along with $20 million from the State Legislature and $20 million in UCF resources.
The board’s vote will pave the way for the Legislature’s approval of the state’s $20 million share. Pending approvals, the campus will open in fall 2018, according to the press release.
Students will be able to enroll in classes at Valencia College and UCF on the same campus, which can save students thousands of dollars with the cost of only enrolling at a state university.
UCF Downtown will be built on a portion of the Creative Village where Orlando’s old NBA was torn down.
Programs that will be offered at the new campus will include digital media, health information technology, culinary, and hospitality, as well as workforce training and other certificates to increase access to education in the immediate downtown area, according to the press release.



The announcements for Student Government Association hopefuls have kicked off…
Jacob Milich and Elaine Sarlo have officially announced their candidacy for University of Central Florida Student Body President and Vice President.
Proud to be running for UCF Student Body Vice President alongside Jake Milich! Follow us @JakeandElaine #JakeandElaine #FightingForStudents
— Elaine Sarlo (@elainesarlooo) March 1, 2016

“After serving in the United States Marine Corps, I never could have imagined feeling such a strong loyalty and connection to another institution until I became a student at UCF,” Milich said in a Facebook post. 
“When you love something you want to see it become the greatest version of itself, and it is for that reason that I am running for Student Body President,” Milich continued.
Milich is a business management major and his involvement on campus includes Senator for the College of Business Administration, President of Phi Delta Theta 2014-2015, Chairman of the Golden Rule Review Committee and Greek Campus Leader of the Year 2015. 
Sarlo is a political science major and President of College Republicans, a sister of Alpha Xi Delta, Field Director for Americans for Prosperity, Communications Director for Paulson for Mayor and a field director for other multiple consulting firms.
The Jake & Elaine campaign is running on the following platforms:
-Advocacy
-Resources
-Representation
-Safety
-School pride
-Transparency
-Quality of life 
The team is not affiliated with the Black and Gold Ticket or any SGA party. Jake & Elaine have chosen to be completely independent.
“We do not answer to any party, we only answer to the students,” Milich said.
Milich has already been fighting for a more transparent SGA as a Senator. 
The SGA presidential candidate filed a resolution asking the state legislature to make clear that SGA records are not protected by FERPA. After his resolution was killed behind closed doors, Milich filed a court brief.
Voting will begin March 28-30 on MyUCF.
For more information about the Jake & Elaine Campaign, visit their website, Facebook, Twitter or Instagram.



The University of Central Florida Police Department is looking to add two new staff members to its 24-hour communications center to respond the campus’ 911 calls.
The dispatchers are first point of contact for emergency callers. They note details and safely dispatch the officers. It is important to note that dispatchers are not first responders. 
“Dispatchers are a critical lifeline both for victims and for our officers,” UCFPD Deputy Chief Brett Meade said in a release. “Their role is valuable and crucial to achieve our mission of providing a safe environment for our students, faculty, staff and visitors.”
Junior criminal justice major Chris Walton has been a dispatcher for two years. Much like Walton, dispatchers are eligible for free tuition up to six hours on top of their salary, as well as full health benefits.
“I think the big appeal is that you’re helping so many people as a call-taker,” Walton said. “We are the first person they’ll hear, and that really resonates with somebody because we’re listening to their needs to try to understand what they’re going through.”
Dispatchers are responsible for calls from 63,000 students, 11,000 employees and all of the daily visitors on campus.
The job posting can be found here starting March 4. The application will be open for two weeks.



Looking to wind down every once in a while with fellow UCF students? Even better, looking to WINE down with fellow UCF students? Well, there’s a club for that!
UCF’s wine club, which began in Spring 2014 by Professor Black at the UCF Rosen campus, serves as an opportunity for students to enhance their experiences and pallets when it comes to wine.
The club meets at the Rosen campus two Wednesdays a month at 7:15 P.M. , and you must be 21 or older to join.
What is it they do at these meetings? Drink wine, naturally! The members try a wine, or two, and discuss where the wine came from and the type of grapes used to make it. 
Besides just meeting twice a month, the President, Breanna Giraldo, and Secretary, Kristen Kessler, have coordinated events to allow members to experience local wineries all with good company. The club has visited places such as The Wine Room in Winter Park.
The club is containing to grow, and hopes to one day be able to take a trip to Napa Valley to visit the vineyards and wineries across the nation. 
Anyone interested in joining can look the club up on Facebook by searching “Wine Club at UCF”. There, you can find out when the next meeting is and start your journey to becoming wine savvy. 



