Last season, tailgate reservations on Memory Mall for the University of Central Florida’s first home football game booked within minutes.
This season, Knights on the Mall has increased the available number of spots from 250 to 330 – eighty spaces more than the previous year, likely due to the opening of grassy areas following the completion of Global UCF. The increase allows for a greater fan experience and access to Memory Mall tailgating for groups looking to reserve a space near the heart of campus.
Reservations for these spots open on the Sunday prior to each home game at 6 p.m., according to university officials. Complimentary parking passes for Parking Garage-H will be given to students who reserve a tailgate space courtesy of the Student Government Association.
In the event that fans do not check in once three hours until kickoff has begun tailgating spots will become available to students and alumni.
New to this year, large water coolers purchased by the Student Government Association will be set up around Memory Mall and refilled through the day for fans to use for free.
Tailgate reservations on Memory Mall for UCF Football’s September 3 season opener at Bright House Networks Stadium go live on Sunday, August 28 at 6 p.m. and are on a first-come-first-serve basis. Spaces can be selected by students and alumni for free although the individual who reserves the space for the group must be the one to check in on game day, the university has said.
Reservations can be accessed on the Knights on the Mall website.
Knight News will provide game day updates from the university and UCF Athletics as they come in. Check back for more Scott Frost and player coverage on Monday at noon.
Tailgating policies may be found on UCFKnights.com and tailgating business policies may be found on ucfsga.com.
Knights on the Mall has included a Frequently Asked Questions for fans ahead of game days:
When can I reserve my space?
Can I sign up for a specific space?
Can I make a reservation for the full season?
Can I reserve more than one space per game?
What is included with my reservation?
What happens if I register and later determine I cannot attend the game?
ON GAME DAY:
When can I check in? 
Who can check in, and what do I need to bring for check in?
Where do I go when I arrive?
How early must I check in to keep my space?
How do I get a space on game day if I don’t have a reservation?
Can I drop off my gear by Memory Mall before parking?
How will I find my space?
Can I bring my grill?
Where can I find UCF’s tailgating policies?
What should I do when I am done tailgating?
MORE INFORMATION:
Where can I call for more information before game day?
Where do I go if I have questions on game day?



