The Rosen College earned the title of the fifth-best hospitality and hotel management schools in the world for 2015.
Eighteen thousand hospitality recruiters and senior managers of luxury hotels around the globe surveyed UCF as the host for the accolade, given by CEOWORLD Magazine.
Rosen Dean Abraham Pizam praised the college for its achievement and stated its message moving forward.
“It’s an honor to be recognized as one of the top hospitality programs worldwide,” Pizam said in UCF Today. “Our focus on innovation and partnership produces exceptional graduates who will be the hospitality industry’s next generation of leaders. The exiting part is we’re just getting started.”
The Rosen College of Hospitality Management is duly located in one of world’s greatest tourism hotspots, near Walt Disney World, Universal Studios Orlando, SeaWorld and the large remainder of the I-4 Corridor.
At 3,500 students and twelve years since the opening of the college, Rosen offers six academic degrees, the only bachelor’s degree in event management in the United States, according to UCF, as well as the only doctoral program with emphasis on hospitality management in Florida.



The Student Government Association election results are in and Chris Clemente and Rachel Atfield have won.
After an election season filled with controversy, some students at the University of Central Florida got the opportunity make their voices heard and vote for their desired ticket.
Nearly 4000 students came out to vote.
Chris and Rachel received 2485 votes while the other candidates, Safadi and Ali received 1185 votes.
There were 230 votes that did not count as they were for write in candidates.
As President and Vice President, Chris and Rachel plan to work hard to fulfill their campaign promises.

After the results were in Anthony Safadi, spoke with Knight News to express his feelings.

Check back on Knight News for continued SGA coverage.

Video credit: Divina Rayos and Natalie Duque.



The Rosen College of Hospitality Management has created a new degree program that will allow those who want to work behind the scenes an advantage in the classroom: a Bachelor of Science in Entertainment Management.
The new four-year undergraduate degree program starts in Fall of 2016 and was made possible with a $5 million private, anonymous donation.
“This four-year undergraduate program will focus on the managerial aspects of entertainment and is the first of its kind to be offered by a SACS-accredited public institution in the United States,” according to UCF Today.
In partnership with the College of Arts and Humanities, this degree will be ideal for students wish to work business and management within the entertainment business.
“Entertainment Management students will be immersed in the business side of entertainment in the key areas of design, engineering, operations, finance and marketing to equip them to identify, create and manage successful entertainment products,” UCF Today stated.
The program will be a total of 120 credit hours with classes within Rosen College and the College of Arts and Humanities.
Applications for the degree will begin in early April 2016.
Fore more information on the B.S. in Entertainment Management, visit the degree website.



