ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF Football Head Coach Scott Frost detailed the 2016 signing class and boasted the tireless effort from his staff when he met with the media on Wednesday afternoon.
“A really good group of high school football players,” Frost said. “A really good group of human beings and we are really excited to bring them to UCF and make them part of our family and part of our brotherhood.”
The inaugural signing class for the new staff emanates the ‘fast and fierce’ mantra that the football program has been pitching since Frost’s arrival in Orlando. Beginning as early as 7:15 a.m. on Wednesday morning, the letters of intent began trickling in for the Knights who had 15 hard commits entering National Signing Day.  They capped off the day with the addition of highly touted four-star recruit Dredrick Snelson from Miami who was previously committed to Minnesota.
“Coach Beckton and especially Troy Walters did a great job with [Snelson],” Frost said. “I think he’s excited to be a part of our offense and I think he was excited to stay a little bit closer to home. We need some guys to come in here and be home-run hitters on our offense and guys that can take the ball in space and make people miss.”
Frost’s staff was also a major topic of discussion as they pulled together the majority of this recruiting class in just two months. UCF finished National Signing Day ranked #57 in the nation which was enough to give them the second best class in the American Athletic Conference.
“I can’t thank my staff enough,” Frost said. “These guys haven’t had much time down here on the ground in Florida to get this group of players to agree to come here and be excited about coming here. The job that my staff did is unbelievable to get this kind of signing class put together in such a short amount of time.”
The acquisition of Snelson shows the leaps and bounds that this program has made in such a short time under the Frost regime. Ranked #165 in the nation by ESPN, Snelson chose UCF over the likes of Minnesota, Miami, Penn State and Maryland. Snelson was just the cherry on top for the Knights’ offense though as they signed 9 other players on that side of the ball as well.
QB McKenzie Milton, the first student-athlete from Hawaii to play for UCF, signed for the Knights following an outstanding senior season at Mililani High School. While he will not be the tallest player on the field at 6-foot, the dual-threat quarterback scorched opposing teams for 99 total touchdowns throughout his college career.
“[Milton] has been at Oregon camp twice and I’ve had a relationship with him for quite a while,” Frost said. “My opinion: If McKenzie was 6-foot 4 he’d be one of the top two or three quarterbacks in the country.”
However, running back Adrian Killins may best represent the speed that UCF’s new offense will have in the 2016 season. The two-sport athlete was a track and field star at Mainland High School and ran for nearly 1,000 yards in his senior season.
“We’re excited about AK,” Frost said. “He was the first one in; drove down from Daytona to commit to us after a couple conversations on the phone. He’s really fast and we’re looking to get as many fast guys into the boat as we can.”
The Knights also added 10 players on defense and most intriguing of which is Finland-native defensive tackle Chris Malumba. Malumba was born in Finland after his parents escaped violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and he holds the title as Finland National and Nordic Judo champion.
UCF Football continues to take the necessary steps to improve upon the dreadful 0-12 season in 2015, but most people have already forgotten about that because of the strides that the team has taken under Scott Frost. This class will certainly give UCF fans a lot to talk about until the Spring game when more about how the team is beginning to come together will be revealed.



It’s that one time of the year again where the local community will have the chance to eat unlimited breakfast for dinner and raise money for a great cause at the same time.
On March 1, 2016, Delta Delta Delta will be hosting their annual Delta House of Pancakes benefiting St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital at their sorority house from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. DHOP is an all you can eat breakfast buffet party with a DJ, games, a pancake eating contest, and much more. 
Sisters of the sorority encourage all local members of the community to come help them raise their goal of $75,000.
The sorority will be kicking off DHOP with their second annual Dude for St. Jude sweetheart competition. Members of the fraternity chapters of UCF are asked to nominate a single collegiate member whom they see best fit to compete for the title of Dude for St. Jude. 
Tickets can be bought from any sister for $5 or at the door at the time of the event for $7. Tickets can also be purchased online.



SeaWorld is always on the look out for innovations and ways to improve itself to bring in more people and gain more customer loyalty.  
SeaWorld Orlando plans on finishing the newly innovated roller coaster, the Mako, which is named after a shark known for its speediness and its ability to change course quickly, summer of 2016.
A few years ago, the company came up with a brand new Shamu Show called “One Ocean”, which brought in a more diverse crowd and focused more on the importance of our divine ocean. This year, SeaWorld is focusing on new ways to improve the ride scene. 
The Mako, once finished, will officially be considered Orlando’s tallest, fastest, and longest roller coaster, reaching speeds of 73 MPH and a maximum height of 200 feet. 
Currently, Universal’s The Incredible Hulk is the fastest roller coaster in Orlando, reaching maximum speeds of 67 MPH, and Universal Studio’s “Rock It” is Orlando’s tallest roller coaster, reaching heights of 167 feet. 
Seaworld’s Mako plans to take the spot of both those roller coasters this coming summer. 
Even though it will have all the thrill and speed assets, it will unfortunately not have any loops, nor any inverted twists, making this roller coaster an attraction for both the older crowd and the younger crowd. 
It will be less queasy, yet still exhilarating ride. 
Image credit: SeaWorld



