ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF Football just isn’t there yet.
At 4-4 the Knights are on the up-and-up from their winless 2015 campaign, but still have not learned how to close out close out the games that matter. Cleary, this team is still figuring out how to win the ones that need to be fought for.
“There’s not a lot to say about that one. We had them where we wanted them. At halftime, every message every guy was talking about was finishing them off. We just didn’t do it,” said Head Coach Scott Frost after the most recent heartbreaker.
It is a comment that sums up not only Saturday’s loss in Houston, but the lack of execution across the board in tight games.
With three closely contested meltdowns under their belt, the Knights have been frustratingly close to turning the corner – staying competitive enough to give hope to the UCFaithful, but still playing light years away from lockdown football.
Take a look at the numbers. In the second half of their three tight losses (Maryland double-overtime, last second to Temple, second half collapse in Houston) UCF has a -5 turnover differential and has been outscored 13-47.
A quick breakdown of the games themselves:
MARYLAND: 30-24 2OT L
TEMPLE: 26-25 L
HOUSTON: 31-24 L
If the Knights manage to hold on to a massive second half lead, stop just one more play from Temple, and finish out double overtime at home? They would be staring at a 7-1 record; undefeated in conference play with the AAC Championship game on the horizon.
Here’s an eye-popping stat for you: McKenzie Milton is 7-19 for 87 yards (36.8%) with 0 TD 1 INT, -1 rushing yard, and a long rush of 9 yards in the fourth quarter according to ESPN Stats & Info.
Running with a young gunslinger who likes to extend plays and make moves with his legs has had its share of exhilarating moments, but with the game on the line? The true freshman has shown his stripes.
They say a two-score lead is the most dangerous lead in sports, something Milton has struggled with as well this season. When up by a pair, Milton owns a 41.7% completion rate, has one touchdown and has been sacked five times for a net of -23 rushing yards. When leading by more than 14 – he has yet to throw a touchdown.
To be fair, nobody thought UCF would even be in a position to feel the soul-crushing defeat of a tight conference game. There was zero reason to expect anything from this team, especially after incumbent starter Justin Holman ceded his job to a true freshman.
The Knights are showing flashes in the pan and Scott Frost has this team trending upward, yet it is just a tease. They are talented and driven, but inexperienced; unable to shift into that extra gear winning programs seem to possess. There is hope for the future, but right now, growing pains should be the expectation – not the conference title.
 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



