The University of Central Florida Board of Trustees is set to decide on an amendment to the school’s regulations that would strip SGA’s status as an independent governing body in a vote that may define the presidency of SGA President Chris Clemente, who is a Trustee on the Board.
A copy of the Board’s July 28 meeting agenda shows a proposed amendment to University rules and regulations concerning Student Government and Registered Student Organizations. In essence, the amendment revokes SGA’s status as an independent Student Government. Every decision SGA makes either at the Senate level or by vote from the student body will have to be approved by the Board of Trustees.
Click HERE to see the agenda. Proposed amendment is on Pg 155.
SGA’s purposes include representing the student body on all levels of University administration, including in front of the Board of Trustees. The Legislative Branch is composed of sixty-one senators who are voted in by the student body every year. This Senate’s primary responsibility is voting on a nearly 20 million dollar budget which is paid for by every student as part of the activity and service fee.
The Board’s amendment includes language that changes the Senate’s role in determining the budget. The original regulation states Student Government “may determine” how that budget “will be spent at the University.”  The proposed amendment states Student Government “may propose” how the budget is spent.
On it’s website, SGA declares that one of the “most vital roles” of Student Government is  “the protection of student interests in both the UCF administration’s decisions as well as decisions made at the state level.”
If this vote passes, that protection could potentially disappear. The Senate’s vote on the budget will go from being policy to a simple recommendation, and every decision SGA makes could be subject to Board approval.
Student Government President Chris Clemente, who is a member on the Board of Trustees, said in an email that he is still not sure how he will vote on the issue.
“As any other Trustee would, I am researching the amendment in its entirety and will consider any and all functional impacts brought about by the amendment,” Clemente said.
Knight News has filed three different lawsuits to date against the Board of Trustees, accusing SGA of withholding public records and violating Florida’s Sunshine Law–legislation that dictates government meetings must be open to the public.
The Board’s defense against these lawsuits include the statement that they define SGA as not an independent government, but as a “simulated learning laboratory.” This vote may be an attempt to strengthen the Board of Trustee’s defense.
The amendment will be up for vote at the Board’s next meeting on July 28. The meeting, which begins at 9:30 a.m., is open to the public and includes an opportunity for public comment.



“Wall off Trump!”, protesters shouted from outside the secured perimeter of the Quicken Loans Arena.
The excitement has begun early on day three of the Republican National Convention as protesters gather outside the convention arena over seven hours before the first speech was to begin. 

These protests follow up the protest of Tuesday that closed several Cleveland streets, where a drove of outraged anti-trump citizens shouted their disgust for the Republican nominee throughout the city.
After hearing from Paul Ryan, Ben Carson, and Donald Trump Jr. on Day two, convention goers look forward to speeches from  Senators Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, presumptive Vice Presidential nominee Mike Pence, and Eric Trump. 
The theme for RNC’s day three is “Make America First Again”.
Knight News will continue to keep you informed on the lasted from Republican National Convention in Cleveland Ohio.



