University of Central Homecoming revealed the year 2016’s theme and headliner at noon on Wednesday at the Heart of Campus.
Ludacris and Bebe Rexha will headline ‘Celebrate the Knight’ along with comedian Nick Swardson to lead a week of festivities at the nation’s largest university by undergraduate population, and second largest by population overall.
A remake of how Skit Knight and the introduction of Knights Got Talent give UCF students the center stage in showcasing their skills and talents.
Homecoming Executive Director Daniel Kleiman summed the excitement UCFHC organizers expressed in the lead up to the reveal.
“We are so excited to share UCF Homecoming 2016 with campus,” Kleiman said. “We are always striving to appeal to the majority of the student body, and with the introduction of Knights Got Talent and our comedy and concert artists, I think we do just that. We can’t wait to ‘Celebrate the Knight’ with everyone in October.”
Twelve-thousand student tickets will be distributed for Concert Knight and Comedy Knight from Sept. 26-30, with more information available on both at ucfhc.com.
A schedule of events has been released by UCF Homecoming:
Knight News will be covering UCF Homecoming Week for Knights and alumni. Follow us on social media (@UCFKnightNews) for the best coverage of UCF Football and all of the events.
–
The Office of Student Involvement put together UCF Homecoming and hosts programs, services, and opportunities all year! Learn more about them here.
About OSI:
The Office of Student Involvement (OSI) at the University of Central Florida provides quality programs, services, and leadership opportunities that enrich students’ academic endeavors. Students and staff collaborate to explore various paths that encourage personal growth, promote civic responsibility, embrace differences, and connect students to the campus and the community. OSI supports more than 600 registered student organizations (RSOs) as well as the Campus Activities Board  (CAB), Homecoming, Knights of the RoundTable (KoRT), Late Knights, Student Government Association  (SGA), Volunteer UCF (VUCF), Knight-thon, Rosen Life, Graduate Outreach, Regional Outreach Services, and Knight Camp. 



George O’Leary may no longer coach football for the Knights, but the University of Central Florida is making sure his legacy will always be remembered.
UCF will be honoring O’Leary with a statue, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
A source with knowledge of the project told the Orlando Sentinel the statue should be presented in 2017 and will be near the Bright House Networks Stadium.
The statue will be funded by private donors and approved by the UCF Athletic Association, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
Knight News asked on Facebook Monday night if Knight fans thought O’Leary deserved a statue:


This is a developing story. Check back for updates.




