This week was fairly light on new releases, but the highlight of the short list is a Batman villain that isn’t normally given the spotlight.
Poison Ivy has been giving her own 6-issue series that will follow Pamela Isley in her quest to return to the scientific world of plants while leaving behind her former villainous ways. The Ivy book comes as a bit of a surprise given what is currently happening in the Batman books with the latest and greatest villain Mister Bloom. However, it could be interesting to see her interact with another nature-based superhuman if that’s what DC has in mind going forward.
With that being said, Batman #48 also released this week and the aforementioned Mister Bloom was absolutely stellar. He has brought to Gotham what only Joker has ever brought: pure pandemonium and chaos of the terrifying kind. Speaking of Joker, this latest issue of Batman also begins to give the details of just what the clown prince has been up to since Endgame.
The following are separate reviews for comics released on January 20, 2016:
Batman #48 – Grade: 9.2
Mister Bloom is the most brutal villain to enter the DC Universe in years and the character has been given life by Scott Snyder and Greg Capullo. It’s exciting to watch the back and forth between Bloom and Jim Gordon’s Batman and their varying views on the city as it continues to repair itself following Joker’s endgame. Also, Bruce Wayne’s inevitable return to Batman is being handled in the best way imaginable with a lot of carefully placed plot points driving him towards the cowl.
Lucifer #2 – Grade: 9.0
Seeing as how Lucifer is going to be a television show beginning in just four days on FOX, this book sure does a good job of distinguishing itself as an excellent read that has nothing to do with where the show will begin. Lucifer Morningstar teams up with a fellow disgraced angel to track down the murderer of the Presence (aka God himself). The parallels between what Lucifer is doing and what other ungodly thing is happening in the middle of some random town in Oklahoma plays really well when mashed together in this issue. The evil behind everything has yet to be fully revealed, but the pacing assures that we will reach our answers sooner rather than later.
Poison Ivy: Cycle of Life and Death #1 – Grade: 8.7
Honestly, when the news first broke that Poison Ivy was getting a series all to her own, I had a lot of skepticism about just how good it could be. Low and behold, the limited series gets off to a strong start with the debut of Pamela Isley in her new position at Gotham Botanical Gardens. The addition of Harley Quinn to throw a wrench into Ivy’s attempts at a normal life is something that readers can look forward to moving forward I’m sure. This issue does struggle with pacing, but it does a good job of avoiding going into too much exposition about every character.
Red Thorn #3 – Grade: 7.3
Red Thorn’s first two issue were exactly what you look for in a comic, but the third issue fell by the wayside a bit with too many storylines happening at once. When working through the book, I found myself looking back and wondering just what was going on because the issue jumped around so much. Thorn is a really great character though as writer David Baillie likes to play with his morale quite a bit and leave the reader guessing which side our main character has landed on.

Photo credit: DC Comics



Lights!
Camera!
And a long line.
Beginning at the main stairs and reaching all the way back to the Pegasus Ballroom, University of Central Florida students lined up in the Student Union on UCF’s main campus Tuesday to receive equipment, which they will use while making a five minute film for the Campus MovieFest. They will have a week to record and edit their masterpieces for the chance to win prizes and recognition in the world’s largest student film festival.
While some students only needed a few essentials like microphones or a laptop loaded with Adobe Creative Cloud, others got the whole package including a Panasonic or LUMIX HD camera, tripods, and external hard drives.
“I do have my own equipment,” said Justin, film major, “… their equipment is more professional and I can run faster and be able to do things more quickly and proficiently.”
Over 100 teams rented equipment at Tuesday’s launch and others will be using their own equipment, according to Wey Lin, promotions manager for CMF who was helping at the launch.
Long lines persisted throughout the day Tuesday from noon right up till the last person was helped around 5 p.m.
“It’s a good sign,” said Lin in response to the large turnout. Over 300 teams in total have signed up to participate this year, according to a follow up email from Lin.
This is UCF’s tenth year with CMF. UCF is one of the largest schools to participate in the event. Other notable schools with a large presence include West Virginia, University of South Florida, and San Jose State University, according to Lin.
CMF will also be providing training and support to any participate who needs it — 24/7, for free — via phone, web, email, or social media, which can be found on campusmoviefest.com. Support reps will be on campus noon till 5 p.m. in the Student Union Sat. Jan. 23, in the Siesta Key Board Room 225. There will also be support available the day of collection Mon. Jan. 25, in front of the Pegasus Ballroom to help with any last minute editing questions, according to Lin.
Each film will be viewed by a panel of judges consisting of students, faculty and staff who will choose the top 16 films to be viewed at the Red Carpet Finale, hosted by the Campus Activity Board, Feb. 18 in the Pegasus Ballroom.
Teams who stand out in specific categories, such as documentary, acting, directing, writing, cinematography, editing, special effects, sound design, and production, will be announced Silver Tripod Winners, according to the CMF press release.
The top four of those films will be named campus Jury Award Winners, receive a 12-month subscription to Adobe Creative Cloud and advance to the CMF Grand Finale, a four-day celebration of creativity, workshops and awards. They will also have the chance to have their film showcased at the Cannes Film Fest, and on Virgin America’s in-flight movie, and invited to join CMF Distinguished Filmmakers Network.
“It’s awesome to be around that mind set,” said Amari Matthew, sociology major, “Everyone [has] a free mind and … just think freely. I enjoy that.”



If you are a student at the University of Central Florida looking to get involved for a good cause, you’ll need to know about The Lemon Club at UCF.
Nick Diver, a senior majoring in Pre-Med, is in the process of bringing Alex’s Lemonade Stand Foundation (ALSF) to UCF by the end of spring semester. Diver hopes to raise money and awareness at one of the largest schools in the nation.
As of now, there are 15 interested students in The Lemon Club at UCF. Diver and his former high school baseball teammate, Zac Holbrook, came together to organize the club on campus.
The founder of ALSF, Alexandra “Alex” Scott, started the organization back in 2000 at 4-years-old after she was diagnosed with neuroblastoma, a form of childhood cancer. She held lemonade stands in her backyard to benefit childhood cancer research. Alex reached her goal of $1 million before passing away at 8-years-old.
Diver has a personal connection with Alex. Growing up, Diver and Alex were childhood friends, and he had the chance to know her before she passed away. “Alex was a family friend and the most unselfish person I have ever known. She was always giving back, even when she needed help the most,” Diver said.
Recently, The Lemon Club at UCF had its first event on Jan. 9 and 10 for the Walt Disney World Marathon Weekend. By volunteering in a booth, they were able to raise one hundred dollars for ALSF. Diver and Holbrook hope to plan more volunteer events in the future.
One of the reasons Diver is going into the medical field is to help children like Alex and work to end cancer. He said he is excited to carry out her legacy on campus and raise money for pediatric cancer research.
For students who wish to learn more about the organization on campus, Diver encourages them to check out the Facebook page: The Lemon Club at UCF. For those who want to find out more information on the organization, check out the ALSF website: AlexLemonade.org.



Residents at The Marquee are experiencing cop lights through their windows once again.
An aggravated battery case may have been a possible shooting at the complex, officers on scene said.
@ucf_problems pic.twitter.com/nl6opAUKAh
— Tyler Dimond (@Tbaebae) January 22, 2016
 
The Orange County Sheriffs Office responded to the aggravated battery case on their dispatch at around 11:40 p.m Thursday night.
Residents who tweeted to knight news said they heard a “pow” around 11:30pm
More than half a dozen OCSO vehicles were on scene.
This is a breaking story. Check back for updates.



