By Richard Stein, 2015 UCF SGA Presidential Candidate
Jacob Milich is a marine, a student, and until a few hours ago, an SGA presidential candidate.  I’ve never met him, volunteered for his campaign or would even consider myself a supporter. But, when I found out what happened to him today, I became upset and wrote this article.
I’m angry because Jacob fought for this country and our democratic way of life. He was willing to risk his life for democracy and upon his return and transition to civilian life, he decided to become an active participant, by running for President of SGA.
Unfortunately, those that comprise Student Government at the University of Central Florida, a university ranked as “military friendly,” colluded to end his campaign.
Behind closed doors, a panel of five individuals (appointed by a public supporter of Jacob’s opposition) found him guilty of egregious errors and silenced his campaign. Today, a man who fought for this country, is not able to run because he:
1.     Wrote notes on his phone
2.     Tested his website prior to the official start of his campaign
3.     Developed social media pages prior to the official start of his campaign (0 followers, no campaign information)
This is truly ridiculous and those in SGA should forever be ashamed that they are allowing this to happen.
Those that are upset should Contact the Office of the President (Dr. Hitt): 407-823-1823



The Jake & Elaine independent ticket in this year’s University of Central Florida Student Government has been suspended from the race.
“Friends, family, and fellow students, after spending seven hours defending ourselves in a hearing that was closed to the public, and despite my best efforts to push for reason and sense to guide the decisions of the election commission, I come to you with the unfortunate news that Elaine and I have been suspended from the presidential election ballot,” Milich said in a Facebook post.
Milich’s suspension was decided in a series of closed hearings lasting seven hours. He said that the meetings silenced the voices of 63,000 students.
Milich said his campaign was accused of nine violations in total. 
“What’s worse, is that the student’s voices were taken away not in a public forum in the Sunshine, but rather in a secret meeting in a secluded room, purposefully restricted from the public eye,” Milich continued.
Milich noted that he is going to appeal the decision to the student body Chief Justice Taylor Scimeca.
The suspended duo can still be in the race if Scimeca approves their appeals and they win.
“We have a student body of approximately 63,000 students. Of those 63,000 students, about 7,000 vote for their student body president every year. Because of the election commission’s decision, the outcome of this election is not being determined by the 63,000 or the 7,000. It is being determined by 5 individuals who represent 0.00008% of the student body. Not only are these 5 individuals not elected by you, the students, but they are appointed and put into those positions of power by one individual who has openly endorsed my opponent in this race,” the UCF Senator expressed.



With little press fanfare, University of Central Florida officials on Monday presented to the Student Labor Action Project a signed agreement pledging to expand employee awareness of loan forgiveness options.
It was all smiles and laughter as Vice Presidents Rick Schell and Gordon Chavis, and Chief Human Resources Officer Shelia Daniels, entered a Millican Hall conference room to present three representatives of SLAP what symbolizes the end of a year-long campaign to promote the public service loan forgiveness program at UCF. 
The program guarantees federal loan forgiveness to those who have worked in the public sector for ten years and after paying 120 monthly payments.
Courtney Gilmartin, the assistant director for the Office of News and Information, presented Knight News with a prepared statement, which said that signing the pledge was “another step in the university’s efforts to inform employees about the loan repayment plan for those working for qualifying employers.”
“UCF,” it continued, “has for some time taken action to work with employees and the Department of Education to share information and raise awareness about the program so employees can benefit. Signing the pledge is UCF’s latest commitment to the effort, and we will continue to prioritize keeping higher education affordable for all of our students and employees.”
The signed pledge, which is “subject to events that are not foreseen at this time,” says that UCF will expand awareness of the PSLF to its workers as well as students by distributing information about the program during “employee orientations and information events” and training human resources staff to address any concerns individuals may have. It also promises to maintain a record of employees who have filled out certification forms both to help workers keep track of their progress in completing the program as well as to share “in relevant benefits information sessions and in appropriate literature.”
This agreement, while similar to the pledge available on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau website, differs in its spirit. SLAP’s outreach director Nicole Hamm said that the difference is accountability.
“The only difference is that they’ve not pledged to the CFPB,” Hamm said. “They have encompassed everything in the CFPB pledge and even a little more as well — basically the same thing, just accountable to different people.”
Gilmartin could not confirm that information in time for publication, but said that she would reach out to Knight News once she had an answer. Should that be the case, UCF would be among the first universities to sign an agreement like this. Schools like Palomar College in San Diego and the University of Oregon were the first to be accountable to the CFPB.
Knight News was the only media outlet present at the meeting. Hamm said that after the disruption staged during President Hitt’s State of the University address, no reporters had even reached out to SLAP about its Debt-Free Future campaign. SLAP did not fall out of the brief limelight in the student press, however, before the Central Florida Future published an editorial by its content manager Caroline Glenn that criticized the campaign.
“She was obviously wrong and we made real change and we actually impacted the lives of employees on campus,” Hamm said. “She can say what she wants to. She did not talk to us, she didn’t understand our organizing and our campaigning and the way that we do it. We’re the ones who made real change.”
As for other criticism on social media, Hamm attributes that to misinformation and not paying attention to the campaign beyond the banner drop. Knight News, in its previous reporting about the agreement, provided a brief history of SLAP’s year-long effort.
A talking point in SLAP’s campaign was that implementing an agreement would not cost the university any money — the group even presented a phony check made out to President John Hitt for zero dollars to “pay” for it. However, Chavis and Daniels, the pledge’s two signatories, said that doing so would involve time, material and labor costs.
“This agreement was worth it anyway,” Daniels said.
Schell even returned the check to SLAP and joked that it might as well write “direct deposit” on it, to show that the check was “cashed.”



Two armed men broke into an apartment early Tuesday morning near the University of Central Florida, according to WFTV.
WTFV reported that the two armed men kicked in the door to an apartment at Tivoli and stole electronics before leaving the scene.
Seminole County deputies told WFTV that the men are still at large and that no one was injured.
Deputies also said to WFTV that they are not sure if the men got away in a car or on foot. 
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.




