ORLANDO, Fla.– Scott Frost’s triumphant takeover as UCF head coach went off without a hitch on Saturday night as the Knights shellacked the South Carolina State Bulldogs in a 38-0 route at Bright House Networks Stadium.

Up 18-0 with only 151 yards in the first quarter, the UCFast offense sprang to life in the second half to tally 20 more points and 311 total yards. The 91 plays made were the most made in a game since 2002 against Kent State, a 92 play affair.
“We don’t make rah-rah speeches around here very much,” said Coach Frost about the second half turnaround. “The guys are going to be excited. if they are about football they’re going to be excited.”
Quarterback Justin Holman’s performance was indicative of the offense as a whole – even to the point of his first half nerves.
“I don’t think Justin gets nervous,” Frost insisted. “I think he was almost too amped up. I saw him before the game and it looked like he drank eleven Red Bulls, but he settled in nicely.”
He settled down as the game wore on, praised universally by teammates who reinforced their support after the game. Each player who spoke on the issue claimed it was just first-game jitters, as the initial onset and panic of a new system works itself out. Holman ended the day on solid footing, posting a line of 14-28 completions. 193 yards, 2 TD and zero interceptions while tacking on 63 rushing yards.
The offense’s true strength was revealed with authority on the ground. UCF’s rushing attack posted 197 yards on the ground. Standing tall among the running-back-by-committee approach were Jawon Hamilton and Taj McGowan – combining for 25 carries and 105 yards.
Though the offensive production sputtered in the first half placekicker Matthew Wright was the answer Scott Frost was looking for in times of trouble. Wright set a career high with four field goals; from 34, 37, 45 and 46 yards out.
South Carolina State had no answer for the quick-paced Knights’ defense, looking completely gassed towards the end of the game. UCF defenders revealed afterwards that they knew exactly how the opposition felt, and that they were prepared in every way for the physical test of balancing an offense racing to get plays off.
It was important for UCF to get a win after what has seemed like an eternity without one, but the true victory on Saturday night was for the system itself. The world glimpsed for the first time what the UCFast, UCFierce mentality translated to beyond rhetoric.
“I want our kids to play aggressively and know that our coaches are behind them to do those kinds of things,” Frost cemented.”
The translation was simple: Scott Frost’s Knights will never take their foot off of the gas pedal. On display was an aggressiveness in completing fourth down conversions, taking shots to the end zone for two-point conversions, a pace that wears down the opposition rapidly in the second half and a penchant for letting game-changers do best – make plays.
 



The University of Central Florida earned their first win September 3 against the South Carolina State Bulldogs – a 38-0 shutout.
Over 600 days the Knights played on without a win. Saturday night, it would come in the best way possible, thanks in large part goes to head coach Scott Frost.
Photos from the game at Bright House Networks Stadium capture the victory:



The drought is over.
The wait for a UCF victory is finally over after the Knights defeat the South Carolina State Bulldogs 38-0.
This is the first time the Knights have won a game since December of 2014.
Check Back to Knight News for full story.



UCF has won the toss and chose to defer the decision. SCSU receives the first kickoff.
First Quarter
SCSU received the first kick, but was unable to move the ball effectively in the ensuing possession. UCF, on the other hand, converted a 46 yard Matthew Wright field goal to go ahead 0-3.
UCF 3 SCSU 0
UCF tacked on an additional 34 yard field goal with 2:18 left in the half, pulling ahead by 6, but still within touchdown range of South Carolina State.
UCF 6 SCSU 0
Second Quarter
Matthew Wright tied a career-high three field goals in one game early on in the second quarter with a 45 yard successful attempts.
UCF 9 SCSU 0
His fourth field goal – a 37 yard attempt – was the first by a UCF kicker since December 4, 2014; the last time UCF won a football game.
UCF 12 SCSU 0
Shaquem Griffin notched his first career sack in the second quarter, forcing a fumble at the UCF 41 yard line that was recovered by JamiyusPittman to set up a late first-half score by UCF.
Justin Holman kept the ball on a designed run from ten yards out with 1:45 left in the first half to put the Knights ahead 10-0 and cap off an eight play, 57 yard drive.
UCF 18 SCSU 0
Shaquill Griffin joined his twin brother in the turnover frenzy in the second half, intercepting a ball at the UCF 11 yard line early in the third quarter, but the Knights would squander the opportunity with a fumble of their own.
Dontravious Wilson converted the next drive into a one yard touchdown drive to extend the lead by a massive 25 points.
UCF 25 SCSU 0
Justin Holman was able to connect with Tre’Quan Smith as the third quarter expired for a 37 yards score, followed closely by an ill-fated two point conversion attempt.
UCF 31 SCSU 0
Fourth Quarter
A 35 yard completion from Justin Holman to Jordan Akins in the fourth quarter was the catalyst to UCF’s ultimate nail in the coffin, setting up a five yard touchdown reception by Tristan Payton with 12:18 remaining in the quarter.
UCF 38 SCSU 0
 
 
 



The Scott Frost Era begins Saturday, the first showing of the next generation of UCF Football after months of hype and a complete program evolution; transcending pure football scheme in overhauling the marketing, appearance and aura of an organization in desperate need of new directions.
UCF will face off against South Carolina State University, a program eager to defend its title as the most dangerous pass rush in the FCS division. Here’s a few things to expect from the 2016 season opener.
Growing Pains
Last season was a never-ending parade of misfortune for UCF fans and players alike, as injuries and bad luck piled on top of each other in a fashion unparalleled across the college football landscape. It led to a rough season for a program forced to start more freshman than ever before in the George O’Leary years.
This year’s growing pains will be slightly different than those set upon a winless Knights team, instead taking the form of an entire squad picking up an intensive new playbook and conditioning program on both sides of the ball.  It has not, however, deterred a team who has bought in completely to the UCFast mentality.
“It feels amazing, the energy that these coaches brought in for us. Coach Frost brought in a new system and we just bought in quickly. I feel like players that were a part of that season last year feel like we’re going to give so much effort towards Coach Frost,” said Tre’Quan Smith.
“They gave us a system [and said] do not be afraid to mess up. Last year we were afraid to mess up.”
Playing scared is the death of any football team. There will be mistakes and kinks to work out through the entire year, but the dynamic and ever-evolving football I.Q. of this years’ players will be on display frequently.
Justin Holman; The Leader
This is Justin Holman’s team to lead, make no mistake about it.
“Justin by far is one of the biggest leaders on the team. He’s always willing to work with anybody on the team, to make the whole team better as a whole. He corrects us a lot on our mistakes, he’s there whenever you need him,” confidently proclaimed wide receiver Tre’Quan Smith.
Frost has stated that Holman has the complete package of skill sets he looks for in a prototypical gunslinger for his offense, wishing he had more years ahead to grow with the UCF veteran. Holman has reportedly has impressed coaches with his voracity in devouring the new play book.
Hungry and Humble
A winless season will leave deep and slow-healing scars to any major program. Completely gone are the true core of Knights who earned the Fiesta Bowl win, replaced by those who have either yet to play a down at Bright House Networks Stadium or who still have the sour taste of last season resonating within themselves.
By all appearances and preseason banter, this squad fully comprehends the sacrifices and effort needed in every moment to win on any given Saturday.
“Never, ever underestimate an opponent,” chirped Mark Rucker. “Always go hard against anybody, any opponent no matter what. You have to love to compete no matter who you’re playing against.”
 



