GREENVILLE, N.C. – UCF (3-2) kicked off conference play with a statement win in North Carolina Saturday, handing the ECU Pirates a 47-29 defeat with dominant defensive play and a hundred yard special teams touchdown that only Adrian Killins could have pulled off.
“Just a great team win. We can play a lot better than that, we played sloppy. I think they played sloppy too and gave us some gifts,” assessed Head Coach Scott Frost. “When a team can battle like that, like we did, and make plays on offense, defense, and special teams – it’s just a wonderful team win for our program.”
It was the first time that UCF has scored on all three phases of the game since 11/20/10, but let’s be clear here – even though the Knights put up 47 points, this was not an offensive victory. UCF stayed competitive early and often because of a defense that just didn’t slow down. The Pirates had moments of marginal success, but the UCFierce squad came up with big plays in almost all the right moments.
T.J. Mutcherson came down with a tipped pass right at the goal line in the first quarter. East Carolina was stopped for a missed field goal attempt in the second and then brought down into the end zone on their next possession for a safety.
The Knights took those two points, the ball, and punched in a quick score to fully take advantage of the potential 16-point swing. East Carolina fumbled in the red zone soon after, and lineman Brendon Hayes ripped a pass of his own out of the air, taking it a short distance to notch a pick-six.
“I guess you could call it a dream play, but I was just doing what my coaches told me. Keep believing in myself, keep believing in my teammates,” said Hayes about the score.
Time after time again, the Knights’ defense was not only a strength but the driving force behind the entirety of the team’s momentum. They were fierce in the red zone, timely with big plays, consistent in getting to the ball and never looked like they were playing with anything but total hustle.
“That’s kind of been happening all year,” said Frost. “The defense has been keeping us in games and allowing us to break them open.”
On offense? The Justin Holman led squad was anything but effective as a whole.
“I’m not pressing, just getting back into the feel of the game. Definitely have to relax a little bit more, calm my feet down,” the relieved veteran said.
UCF racked up 370 yards, and their surprise start QB managed to complete only 11-of-29 attempts for 156 yards and two interceptions. Holman found out just before kickoff that he would be starting, playing in place of a hobbling McKenzie Milton.
There were bright spots, namely the eye-popping speed at which the scoring drives occurred. Three of the scoring drives early on took under a minute off the clock each, highlighting the home-run capability of this system.
It was the running game that sustained the offense, for the most part, relying on all of their cogs to make an impact. Dontravious Wilson led the pack with two scores and 73 yards, Taj McGowan notched 50 yards and a score on two carries, and Jawon Hamilton recorded 49 yards and his first career touchdown.
Glimmers of hope are becoming weekly trends as UCF works its way out of the perpetual underdog role. Adrian Killins has become an every-game highlight reel, the defense is playing fast and aggressive, and this team is learning how to win together. It will all be part of an evolving package as the Knights move deeper into conference play.



