ORLANDO – No matter how you slice it, this one was just ugly. UCF fell 31-13 to the Arkansas State Red Wolves in a cacophony of misery on all three phases of play.

 
It was UCFrustration from the onset; consider the drive chart from the first quarter.
Punt, Punt, Punt, Punt, Fumble. The pattern didn’t vary much over three more excruciating quarters of football. UCF would punt ten times by the end of regulation.
All told? The Knights produced 223 yards of offense, suffered five three-and-outs, and left their defense on the field for just about 32 minutes. Punter Caleb Houston posted career numbers with 440 total punt yards.
To call the game a sloppy performance seems like a sweeping generalization, but the Frost and company shot themselves in the foot with repetition that would have made a scratched record proud. UCF totaled penalties and penalty yards. Arkansas State was gifted three fumbles, a turnover on downs, and three almost-interceptions from the home team – not a handicap that a stagnant Knights’ offense had any chance of overcoming.
Nothing was working on offense, period. It started with the offensive line’s deep struggles against the ferocious Red Wolves’ pass rush, as Milton was flushed out of the pocket with ease and forced to fight for his life; let alone a clear chance to pass as he was sacked four times and pressured for the entirety of the evening.
“It’s tough right now to play quarterback,” explained Head Coach Scott Frost. “We have a couple of guys hurt on the o-line, we’re young on the o-line, when McKenzie is in there he’s running for his life. Justin is bigger, has a better arm and is not quite as quick and when he’s in there he’s under pressure too.”
McKenzie was held to just 175 yards and 22 completions on 39 total attempts, adding 31 yards on the ground when possible. The gameflow and play calling would saddle the true freshman with just a 4.48 yard per attempt average.
The call for Justin Holman to see action hit a crescendo at the end of the third quarter, erupting in cavernous applause when the senior hit the field in place of McKenzie Milton before the final frame. It was the moment fans had been calling for, the messiah to their bowl game dreams.
Justin immediately threw an interception.
Holman was rushed into the game and exposed the dark undercurrent of UCF’s struggles this season; it isn’t just the quarterback. The entire offensive unit was off, and he would finish the game with a stat-line of 4-9 for 36 yards.
UCF’s normally staunch defense fell victim to the Cure Bowl variety of the yips, holding Arkansas State honest for the bulk of the game but blowing the coverage on long gains of 67 and 75 yards. If the occasional big play wasn’t what broke them, the suffocating field position did the trick.
Retrospective of the “First Frost”
UCF’s 31-13 loss to Arkansas State in the second AutoNation Cure Bowl defeat marks the end of the First Frost in Orlando. It has been a teasing season of promise, defined by the youth and passion that brings about both rapid change and heartbreaking missteps.
“I’m proud of our team and our guys,” reiterated Frost when all was said and done. “Nobody hates losing more than me, except maybe Rucker. What this team has accomplished – I’m proud of them, I’m happy for them. I’m hungry to accomplish more.”
“For the young guys – I told them they’d better be ready to get back to work.”
It is on to the next chapter for this resurging program, immediately on to building off the progress an 0-12 team made in 2016. With a full, true offseason ahead, Frost will continue to build UCFootball into the powerhouse he has promised since day one – but will need to steel himself for the wild west of recruiting that recent coaching hires in the state of Florida have brought about.
 
 
 
Photo Credit: Matthew McGuffee



72.
Thats how many yards UCF gave up in penalties in the first half alone, and the Knights trail by seven at the end of the first half of the Auto Nation Cure Bowl.
Things started off shaky for UCF almost immediately as penalties hindered their very first drive of the game, leading to a three-and-out. 
A blocked punt recovered in the end zone by Arkansas State on UCF’s second drive led to the Red Wolves first score of the game. 
UCF continued to struggle throughout the first quarter, leading to several three-and-out drives. 
UCF’s defense held Arkansas State for several drives, until a 67-yard pass play by Red Wolves’ quarterback Justice Hansen set up a field goal to extend their lead to 10. 
On the very next play, UCF fumbled the ball on kickoff, leading to another Arkansas State touchdown to make the score 17-0.
But in the second quarter, UCF seemed to find their footing. The Knights were able to score twice on a touchdown pass by McKenzie Milton to Taylor Oldham and a 45-yard field goal to bring the score to 17-10 at the half. 
In the second half, it was more of the same. The Knights failed to put together much of anything and were only able to tack on a field goal in the entire second half. 
Arkansas State however kept rolling, scoring just 51 seconds into the second half, they would reach the end zone one more time before the game’s end to make the final score 31-13.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



ORLANDO — UCF Football will complete their phoenix-like rebirth on Saturday, essentially hosting Arkansas State in the AutoNation Cure Bowl and officially wiping clean the memory of a winless 2015 season.
It is the culmination of a heartbreaking, up-and-down season of development for the Knights – who were forced to rush a freshman quarterback out of his redshirt season, who had to travel to The Big House to battle Jim Harbaugh’s Wolverines, who lost two absolute heartbreakers at home on the game’s last play, and who generally had to discover within themselves what their identity was.
“Our whole thing was not only just going to a bowl game,” said American Athletic Conference Defensive Player of the Year Shaquem Griffin. Coming off last season, our whole thing was just to win. You have to start somewhere … as a team … let’s get this first win out of the way.”
This team not only had to learn to win again, they had to learn how to compete again. The revival began with that attitude, that it all started with playing fast, playing hard and picking up the man next to you.
“You could see some of the spurts and you could see the changes helped us benefit. You could see the guys who weren’t afraid to hit, who weren’t afraid to make mistakes, who’s going fast. That’s what Coach Frost brought to us. It’s OK to go fast, it’s ok to make mistakes. As long as you’re going 110 percent, you’re never wrong. Take it day by day and game by game,” reinforced Griffin.
Faith in the Scott Frost system and in the man himself have brought the Knights here to Camping World Stadium, a fitting rebirth in the original stomping grounds of UCF Football.
Getting to the game was one battle, winning against the fearsome Arkansas State pass rush will be a completely different Iditarod for this up-and-coming squad.
The Red Wolves are the only team in the nation to boast two sack-ninjas with 10+ QB takedowns each, totaling 24 sacks between Chris Odom (12.5) and Ja’Von Rolland-Jones (11.5). A-State’s duo has the potential to create absolute havoc behind the UCF offensive line, keying on McKenzie Milton’s propensity to extend plays with his feet in the face of serious pressure, often holding on to the ball too long or forcing a throw that simply isn’t there.
It isn’t just getting to the quarterback that fuels the Red Wolves defense, as the unit has forced at least one turnover in 9-of-12 games and took eight of those back for touchdowns.
UCF Head Coach Scott Frost certainly has a respect for a defense of that caliber, having touted his own top-tier unit all season long.
“I think our football team and their football team are similar,” Frost said. “Taking nothing away from the rest of their (Arkansas State) team I think the strength of their team is their defense. Their defense and our defense are — I think — the two most improved in the country coming off last year. They run around, pursue, run to the football, hit. It’s an impressive group. This is exciting game for me for both teams I think both teams have some similarities.”
UCF and Arkansas State will kick off at Camping World Stadium in the AutoNation Cure Bowl tonight at 5:30.



