The University of Central Florida’s campus may soon find itself under heavy rain and storm force wind.
The increased threat of Tropical Storm Hermine has UCF’s office of Emergency Management preparing for possible flooding along with heavy rains and potential tornado activity.
“UCF’s Emergency Operations Center has been activated to Level 3 (Monitoring); and the Department of Security and Emergency Management is actively participating in conference calls with the Florida Division of Emergency Management, the National Hurricane Center and the National Weather Service Melbourne. 
Localized heavy rains, flooding, and possible tornadic activity are the highest threats from TS Hermine,” an email from the Office of Emergency Management stated.
This came from a weather report from the Emergency Operations Center, which has been activated to level 3 due to Hermine.
On Wednesday the Tropical Storm was located 350 miles west-southwest of Tampa. Although there are no current issued warnings for Orange County, heavy rains, minor flooding and isolated tornados may still strike the UCF area.
UCF states that it will continue to monitor Tropical Storm Hermine and sandbag certain areas in preparation for possible flooding. 
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued Tropical Storm coverage.



After 14 months of construction, the University of Central Florida officially opened the Global UCF building located centrally on Memory Mall.
The building has 22 classrooms, three floors, more than 100 employees and is a total of 54,000 square-feet.
UCF’s international community moved into this building in the beginning of May and on Oct. 1 Global UCF should have its certificate of completion.
Over 200 people RSVP’d for the opening, where President John C. Hitt and three UCF students spoke about the importance of an international institution. After the address, there was a ceremonial ribbon cutting and guests were encouraged to take a self-guided tour.
The $16 million building brings all of UCF’s international activities together under one roof and houses three main units: Global UCF, the English Language Institute and International Affairs and Global Strategies.
The three units work together to recruit students to UCF, introduce them to the value of the English Language Institute and help them become a full degree seeking UCF student.
Hitt said he has always had a view of internationalization for UCF. The president spoke about the commitment UCF has to “high impact international study,” and how “the marketplace of today and tomorrow demands inter-cultural interaction,” and that is what Global UCF symbolizes.
“It’s really a celebration of the mission of the building,” said Cynthia Young, Vice Provost for Faculty Excellence and International Affairs and Global Strategies. “It’s been a great recruiting tool for us because this is unparalleled in the state of Florida in terms of other universities in the state of Florida having a global building.”
Ximena Gonzalez started learning as an international student in a small office next to the CFE arena where she sat at a table and was able to hear different languages all around her.
Gonzales spoke at the opening and said that international students and their teachers “truly are a big multi-cultural family.” She also spoke about Global UCF helping students grow. “Global UCF gave me the tools and the ability to accomplish anything,” she said.
International Affairs and Global Strategies employee and Assistant Director of Study Abroad, Oliver McSurley said that Global UCF is “a student services team that is really trying to connect everyone to an international experience in one way or another.”
After studying abroad during his undergraduate career, McSurley said “one of the more exciting elements of a university experience is taking that university experience international.” Study abroad is a large part of UCF and he thinks it “has a tremendous impact on every student that does it.”
“When I think of study abroad, I think of broadening my horizons as well,” participant Arlena Durant said.
Currently, UCF sends about 500 people abroad and has around 800 international students. By 2020, Global UCF hopes to have 3000 students abroad and 3000 international students.



Students filled the MAC Gym at the UCF Recreation and Wellness Center for the RWC Field Day. 
Informational tables for various fitness clubs gave students a substantial amount of opportunities to become involved in and learn about upcoming RWC events in order to pursue a healthy lifestyle.
Here are some photos capturing students playing bocce ball, cornhole, kanjam, volleyball and martial arts while networking with over 40 of UCF’s Sport Club teams:



The University of Central Florida Unveiled the new Global UCF building located on Memory Mall Wednesday, August 31,2016. The 54,000 square foot 16,000,000 dollar building consists of 22 classrooms, a conference space, technology lab, testing lab, catering kitchen, lactation room, 2 showers and a mediation area. 
“This building located at the core of the campus signifies UCF strong commitment to providing high impact educational experiences for all of our students, “ President John C. Hitt said during his speech.
“At UCF fostering our students as global citizens is more than just a noble pursuit. We believe that preparation is a game changer for student success and for our students to make the world a better place. We live in a society that is increasingly diverse and interconnected,” President Hitt continued.
The Global UCF Building will also be home to 3 of UCF’s main internationalization efforts; the English Language Institute, UCF Abroad, and Global UCF. 
These efforts are not only for making UCF a more appealing place for exchange students to attend school but also for native students who have a desire to experience the world.  According to Vice Provost for Faculty Excellence and International Affairs and Global Strategies Cynthia Young, UCF plans to have 3000 undergraduate foreign exchange students attending UCF and have 3000 UCF students studying abroad by the year 2020. Currently, UCF has 828 foreign exchange students from 114 different countries and around 500 students studying abroad.
The key initiatives laid out by UCF’s international affairs and Global Strategies for Global UCF s are,
1.	Become UCF’s international hub that facilitates communication and partnerships across disciplines, colleges, cultures, and nations.
2.	Increase both the number and diversity of students and faculty having high impact international experiences.
3.	Become the university of choice in the state of Florida for international students, scholars, and global partners.
4.	Strategically invest in innovative international initiatives through fiscal stewardship and a culture of cost containment.
Ms. Young believes UCF will accomplish these four initiatives by following a simple equation, “Scale*Excellence=Impact” her hope is to “Harness the power of scale to transform the Knights.” 



