Greek life at the University of Central Florida came together for Beta’s Best Dance Crew in honor of the Ian Supra Memorial Foundation.
Chi Omega took home overall winner of the event.
For dance, Zeta Tau Alpha took third place, Kappa Delta took second, and Tri Delta took first.
KnightNews got videos of all the performances of the night.
Make sure to follow KnightNews on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram to stay updated with the leader in UCF news.
In order of appearance:
In Honor of Ian | Beta Theta Pi | KnightMoves | Chi Omega | Gamma Phi Beta | Delta Delta Delta | Delta Zeta | Kappa Alpha Theta | Knights & Damsels | Pi Beta Phi | Alpha Epsilon Phi | Zeta Tau Alpha | Alpha Xi Delta | Kappa Delta | Rukus



Beta Theta Pi at the University of Central Florida will be hosting “Beta’s Best Dance Crew” Monday night in honor of fallen friend Ian Supra.
Chapters of UCF’s Greek Life will be participating in the dance competition which this year will benefit the Ian Supra Memorial Foundation. All funds raised will be donated to the foundation.
Supra passed away in November after battling cancer for almost two years.
One of Supra’s close friends, Matthew Mayorga, explained the reason for the cause:
“The Ian Supra Memorial Foundation was founded by myself and a few others. Our goal is to support children, both financially and emotionally, who are fighting cancer,” Mayorga said.
Knight News interviewed Supra during his days as a star with the Dr. Phillips water polo team.
“Ian was also a UCF student and he loved your school [UCF] more than anything,” Mayorga said.
The event stars at 7 p.m. but is already sold out. However, donations to the foundation can still be made here.
“We have been doing this for over two years under the name “SupraStrong”, but the official foundation was just launched in the recent months,” Mayorga told Knight News.
For more information about the Ian Supra Memorial Foundation or SupraStrong, find them on social media:
Twitter: @SupraStrong_13
Instagram: @SupraStrong_13
Facebook: Team Supra – SupraStrong_13



The Student Labor Action Project hand-delivered a letter to UCF Chief Financial Officer William Merck’s office on Friday to protest Aramark’s controversial multi-million dollar contract extension.
The letter, obtained by Knight News, explains that the greatest grievance is the lack of transparency regarding the deal between the university and the food distributor that involves, among other things, a virtual monopoly on food services in the Student Union.
“The vote of the SGA President [Cait Zona] does not always reflect the views and needs of the majority of students, especially when the student body was given barely any information or time to consider this deal,” the letter said. “Since students have yet to see this contract, we are asking that you, our Chief Financial Officer, ensure that any necessary amendments are made before Aramark moves into our Student Union.”
Zona, in an e-mailed statement to Knight News, said that she voiced the concerns she received at the Board of Trustees meeting that saw the approval of the deal.
“Four weeks prior to the final Board of Trustees vote, I provided a report to the Student Senate regarding the Student Union Expansion and Aramark Contract. Seeing as each Senator represents 1,000 students, I felt confident that any questions or concerns would be brought to my attention. I have always made the students of whom I have the honor of representing the first priority of my administration,” she said.
The letter also mentions a public records request submitted by SLAP to access the details of the contract, but it is unclear if a contract currently exists. Knight News reached out to UCF spokesman Chad Binette but has not received a response.
The drop-off is the first of many planned direct actions to be launched by SLAP in its latest campaign. Besides having students sign petitions against the deal, the group also distributed pamphlets calling on students to boycott Aramark by avoiding on-campus convenience stores and restaurants that sell and serve products distributed by the company. It instead encourages students to seek unaffiliated dining options and to make use of university microwaves.
The petition itself calls for greater student input in the deal’s final contract. Among its demands, SLAP wants the public disclosure of any communications and decisions regarding the deal as well as the establishment of a student-run committee in charge of “[the] oversight of employment practices, food safety, price changes, and restaurant changes.” The group also call for increased protections for workers, including a negotiated minimum wage and a “guaranteed non-zero amount of shifts/hours per week.”
“What we’re really pushing for right now is to have that student voice, and not only to have it because of the Aramark [deal] in place,” SLAP President Ofelia Sanchez said. “Now that they are forced on our campus, students should be able to dictate how they operate here.”
As of Friday, over 70 students have signed petitions.
While the deal includes a $14.3 million investment to renovate and expand the Student Union, it was met with backlash by students and local business owners concerned with Aramark monopolizing food services both on the main campus as well as on the future downtown campus. 
The Board of Trustees, of which Zona is a member, responded to the concerns by approving a proposal in November that would allow two local businesses to sublet in the Union, but under Aramark’s control.
Sanchez pointed to that concession as an argument toward the feasibility of an oversight committee.
“Because of the fact that we had a little more than 25 people come out to the meeting, they made a concession about local businesses staying on campus,” Sanchez said.
Zona insists, however, that she convinced the Board to consider that stipulation after receiving feedback by concerned senators.
“The concerns I received were voiced to the Board of Trustees. This included my assuring that two current business would be able to renew their contract,” Zona said.



