It’s time to forget your blues and put on your dancing shoes! 
Transport yourself to a nostalgic evening of jazz standards and lindy hop with UCF’s dance club “Swing Knights” Wednesday in the Garden Key Ballroom (Rm. 221) of the student union from 7-9 p.m.
“Taught by national swing dance champions Joel Green and Lacy Ward on campus throughout the semester,” as the club’s website stated, learn at both beginner and intermediate levels every Wednesday.
“Beginner lessons run from 7-8 p.m. and intermediate follows from 8-9 p.m.,” the club’s Facebook event page said. “Students and non-students are welcome to attend, and no experience or partner is necessary.”
First-time UCF students get their first set of lessons free and non-UCF students get only their first beginner lesson free, the page also stated. 
“Non-UCF students are welcome to attend lessons and dances each week by paying a standard $5.00 entry donation.”
Club Membership is $40 and gives students access into every beginner lesson held on campus and also their Friday night dances, which include current radio hits, as seen on the SwingKnights website. 
For students interested in joining, additional membership and pricing are as follows: 
-$5 donation for one lesson, $8 for both OR
-$40 New Student Membership: all beginner lessons free, $5 for each intermediate lesson
-$30 Returning Student Membership: all beginner lessons free, $5 for each intermediate lesson.
To find out more about the club’s events, visit the SwingKnights website, like them on Facebook or RSVP to the event. 
Photo credit: Swing Knights



Tropical Depression 9 has been evaluated by the National Weather Service to upgrade to a Tropical Storm Tuesday night.
The slow-moving Gulf system will likely move through Central Florida early Thursday morning where up to 6 inches of rain may fall in Orlando.
University of Central Florida emergency management officials have released statements on storm monitoring but have not announced the status of Thursday classes – whether or not they will be canceled. A tropical depression has been identified off the Atlantic coast of the United States, and Hurricane Gaston continues to move over open water in the Atlantic Ocean.

Knight News will provide updates on the path and rain impact of the severe weather system and will release any statements made by UCF on the status of classes through the week.
The National Weather Service hurricane statement follows:
 



It was “the world of his creation,” as the late Gene Wilder sang in his legendary title role in 1971’s Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. 
For over four decades, the lovable comedian touched the hearts of millions, and today University of Central Florida students mourn the loss of their childhood chocolatier and only wish his passing was of “pure imagination.” 
“He had wit, charm, a great singing voice, and was just all-around an amazing performer,” third-year computer science major Andrew Vincent Smith said. “I’ll never forget the countless times as a child I’d watch his expository scene in Willy Wonka, where he walked out to the public like a feeble old man, put his cane down, then proceed[ed] to do a perfect front roll for the crowd in front of him[,] and they’d respond with thunderous applause.” 
Wilder died of complications from Alzheimer’s at the age of 83, according to the Associated Press, but despite his long life, students are devastated to lose a timeless American treasure, who was almost a friend. 
“He was my childhood,” junior theatre studies and writing and rhetoric major Madison Smith said. 
“I don’t know what to think,” junior BA cinema studies major Kelly Hazell added. “Another legend is gone.” 
Wilder was also known for his collaboration with Mel Brooks in the 1974 films Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein, which is also a staged musical that Theatre UCF is producing this fall. 
The cast and crew responded to the late comedian’s passing.
“When I think of Gene Wilder, automatically my mind goes to Willy Wonka, and it reminds me of my childhood,” junior BFA musical theatre major Ally Rosenblum, recently cast as Frau Blucher, said. “It is so sad to hear of his passing, but what an incredible career he had. I am excited to be a part of his legacy as Theatre UCF presents Young Frankenstein!”
“Gene Wilder was so instrumental in many collaborations with Mel Brooks’ and as co-writer for the film Young Frankenstein, as well,” the musical’s director Christopher Neiss said. “It will be unavoidable to present the stage musical version without being influenced by his comedic talent in the original movie.”
“He was a very talented man,” Theatre UCF marketing director Heather Gibson added. 
There is no word yet if any Wilder tributes will be added to Theatre UCF’s performances. 



