Four University of Central Florida students have teamed up to create a universal rewards app that will stir-up your spending decisions. 
DealPeel is a consumer focused rewards app that allows you to spend money at one business and cash in reward points known as puntos, or points in Spanish, at another business. Participants include local UCF area night life scenes like Knight’s Library and Habaneros to local restaurants like Spoleto, according to company’s press release. 
The DealPeel team told Knight News how they were able to leverage university startup resources to their advantage.
“UCF is a pristine ecosystem for entrepreneurialism. With the Blackstone Launchpad and several other resources available, we found comfort in not only discussing our ideas, but soliciting the necessary input for future success.”
Really though, the story behind DealPeel is a small group of self-motivated students creating an app that is built behind win-win business transactions.
“We empower small business owners and regional brands through our interactive rewards app. For a business, it’s advertising they only pay for when it works. Our solutions are customizable to any business, and are only limited to the creativity behind the DealMaker.”
With over 20 businesses signed up and ready, the rewards opportunities are only increasing. Be sure to check them out at mydealpeel.com and download the DealPeel app.



The University of Central Florida Police Department released body cam video of a vehicle vs. building crash on the campus the first day of the spring semester.
“On Jan. 11 officers responded to a call about a crash near the Education Complex. They found the driver, William Jefferey Lopez, partially conscious and under the influence. He later admitted to using heroin and drinking alcohol earlier in the night. Heroin, paraphernalia and a pistol were found in and near the car,” UCFPD spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said.
When UCFPD arrived on scene, Lopez seemed only “partially conscious,” according to the arrest affidavit. As demonstrated in the video, Lopez said he had a female passenger along with him who fled the car and was having “chest pains.” The passenger was later identified as Michelle Meilick.

The report stated that the defendant first told officials his name was Jeffrey Cortez.
Officer Wilk filed the crash report and determined that Lopez was “driving at a high rate of speed through the loading dock and paring area adjacent to the Education Building, swerving and appearing out of control driving the vehicle, nearly striking a pedestrian.”
Meilick, who left the car, returned within minutes and was identified by witnesses, the report stated.
The affidavit said that Lopez and Meilick had body tremors and shaking that are consistent with heroin and drug abuse.
The report shows that UCFPD found a syringe at Lopez’s feet when they removed him from the vehicle. A pistol and pieces of a glass pipe “with visible burnt residue on it” where also found inside the car, according to the affidavit.
Meilick told UCFPD that Lopez “was drinking alcohol before driving and while driving and was driving recklessly before the crash,” and that “the driver was using heroin earlier that night,” according to the report.
The report noted that a UCFPD officer found a red tube on the floor near an area Meilick was walking away from and a small plastic baggie that appeared to be contain heroin.
Meilick denied possessing the items and chose to not respond when UCFPD asked her if they belonged to the defendant, the affidavit reported.
The report shows that after investigating, UCFPD found out that the subject had two active warrants and a criminal history which included felony convictions.
The affidavit shows that Lopez admitted to consuming alcohol/heroin and not having a driver’s licence. The report also shows that Lopez made “statements related to knowing” about possessing the firearm and concealing the firearm under his sweatshirt.
Lopez was charged with the following, according to the arrest affidavit:
-Possession of firearm by convicted felon
-Carrying a concealed firearm
-Possession of concealed weapon/firearm by convicted felon
-Possession of a firearm on school property
-Two counts of possession of drug paraphernalia
-DUI property damage or personal injury
-No valid driver license
-Reckless driving
Gilmartin confirmed that Lopez and Meilick had no UCF affiliations. No major damage was done to the building.



