A University of Central Florida student has been arrested and charged with two felony counts of cruelty to animals.
Luke Stribling, 20, was booked into the Orange County Jail after reportedly beating his 17-week-old dog to death.
Orange County deputies say that the puppy urinated on the floor, causing Stribling to lose his temper and begin punching. A death was declared at an animal clinic.
Stribling faces up to five years in prison for the offense.
In 2014, the FBI announced animal cruelty to be classified as a Class A felony, along with arson and homicide. 
The bureau began collecting data in January and information will be publicly available in the coming year, according to the FBI.



Hurricane Matthew increased to a Category 4 storm with winds up to 140 mph Friday.
The Caribbean Sea cyclone has the potential to devastate island nations on its current path as well as brush against the East coast of Florida in the middle of next week, according to current forecasts.
The National Weather Service, Melbourne instructs residents to gather necessary supplies in the case of an impending natural disaster.
“Gather any supplies you may need – water, non-perishable items […],” NWS meteorologist Jessie Smith said.
“It is too soon to rule out possible hurricane impacts from Matthew in Florida.”
Countries, such as Jamaica, are in the midst of preparations for the storm.
Should a Category 4 hurricane pass through Central Florida, cancellations of university-held classes will take place.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued hurricane coverage.



Two violent incidents reported hours apart near UCF last night and early this morning have left several men in area hospitals.
In the first case, the Orange County Sheriff’s Office responded to an armed robbery at the Discount Beer and Tobacco near the intersection of Alafaya Trail and Colonial Drive shortly before 9 p.m.
According to a report released by deputies, a man entered the business armed with a gun, demanded cash from the clerk, and fled in a waiting vehicle.
Shortly after, a deputy noticed a vehicle matching the description of the one used in the robbery traveling westbound on State Road 408. Before the deputy could pull the vehicle over, the car exited the expressway in an attempt to flee, the report states.
As the car attempted to re-enter the expressway, it crashed into a wall. One suspect was arrested at the scene, while the other suspect fled on foot. Police dogs later caught the suspect, deputies say.
The Sheriff’s Department reports both men were taken to the hospital for treatment of non life-threatening injuries, where they are awaiting charges. Deputies have not yet released the names of the men, describing them only as black males aged 22 and 29.
Hours later, just after midnight, deputies responded to a shooting near the intersection of Colonial Drive and Lake Berge Road, about a mile away from the armed robbery call.
According to a report, a 24-year-old black male was shot in the area, which is near the Retreat at Orlando. The man was taken to a hospital, and is expected to survive.
No names have been released in relation to either of these cases. The shooting is still under investigation.



The Orlando Fire Department is on scene at Universal Studios after a power outage that has impacted two rides.
The power outage also has stopped the rotation of the iconic Universal Studios globe.
Both the Transformers and Men in Black rides were impacted, according to OFD. 
OFD is currently checking elevators for anyone who may be stuck. 
The Transformers ride has been evacuated and OFD is rescuing the 11 passengers still on the ride, according to OFD. 
This is a breaking story. Check back to Knight News for updates.



Snapchat recently announced that they have created a new way for Snapchat users to capture video.
They’re calling the new technology Spectacles. 

Spectacles are sunglasses that have an integrated camera that will allows Snapchat users to capture video in a completely new fashion. 
The Spectacles will be able to take an entire days worth of snapchats on a single charge and they will be available in three different colors, according to Snapchat.
The sunglasses will connect with the Snapchat app directly via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi and will transfer the Snapchat videos directly to the Memories section of the application.
The sunglasses will be available soon and will retail for $130, according to CNET.



