After months of anticipation, the first Presidential Debate is finally here.
On Monday, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump will face off in person for the first time.
The candidates, who tout views virtually polar opposite of each other, have been involved in one of the nastiest campaigns in recent history. Millions of dollars have been spent by both sides on smear ads, which have filled TV screens across the country for months. 
Sparks are expected to fly when the two candidates take the stage, after months of hostility and issues that have polarized the country the event is expected to be one of the most highly viewed presidential debates in the nation’s history.
This election has had no shortage of controversy, particularly surrounding Republican nominee Donald Trump. The New York native has been a consistent headline since his campaign began over a year ago. Despite all the controversy surrounding the candidate however, the two candidates remain in a dead heat in the polls on the eve of the first debate.
Hillary Clinton has had her share of controversy as well, with email scandals that led to a federal investigation and questions surrounding the ethical integrity of the Clinton Foundation that have plagued her campaign from the start. 
Sparks are expected to fly when the two candidates take the stage, and the event is expected to be one of the most highly viewed presidential debates in the nation’s history.
Viewers of the debate can expect to hear the candidate’s opinions on a number of issues including the economy, immigration, and foreign policy.
The candidates will take the stage at 9 p.m. EST at Hofstra University in New York.
The debate will be televised across all the major networks including ABC, NBC, Fox, CBS, MSNBC, and CNN.
Stay tuned with Knight News for continued political coverage.



Miami Marlins pitcher and former National League Rookie of the Year Jose Fernandez was killed in a boating accident early Sunday morning.
The United States Coast Guard announced that Fernandez was one of three males killed in the boating accident. 
The U.S. Coast Guard arrived around 3 a.m. to find the 32 foot boat upside down on a jetty off Miami Beach. Two of the victims were found dead under the boat, the other was found dead in the water. None of the deceased victims were wearing life vests, according to ESPN.
Spokesman Lorenzo Veloz of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission said that he believes speed was involved because of the impact with the jetty. Alcohol and drugs are not believed to have been a factor in the accident, according to ESPN.
The Marlins announced that Sunday’s game against the Braves has been cancelled, according to ESPN. 
“The Miami Marlins organization is devastated by the tragic loss of José Fernández. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family at this very difficult time,” the team said in a statement, according to ESPN.
The Miami Dolphins will be holding a moment of silence before Sunday’s game against the Cleveland Browns.
Fernandez had announced one week ago on Instagram that his wife was pregnant. 
“All of Baseball is shocked and saddened by the sudden passing of Miami Marlins pitcher José Fernández,” Major League Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred said in a statement. “He was one of our game’s great young stars who made a dramatic impact on and off the field since his debut in 2013. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family, the Miami Marlins organization and all of the people he touched in his life.”
Fernandez moved to the United States in 2008 from Cuba. He became a citizen in 2011, according to ESPN.
Fernandez was also two time all star.



