“911, what is the location of your emergency?” a dispatcher routinely asked.
“Pulse, Pulse nightclub,” the caller replied, trying not to speak too loudly.
“Are you inside the club still?”
“Yes.”
“Are you injured?”
“No.”
This was the script of many of the 21 newly released emergency calls from the night of June 12, when a gunman killed 49 people and left dozens more injured at Pulse nightclub.
More than half of the calls in the cache were made just as the shooting had begun. Many of the callers were able to find a place to hide and call law enforcement. The audio suggests that dispatchers were overwhelmed with incoming calls and advised callers to quietly stay where they were, assuring them that police officers were on the scene and trying to reach them safely.
Other calls, made about two hours after initial reports of gunfire at Pulse, were made by friends and family members of people who were inside the club, many of whom were impatient with police response.
“This is the seventh time I’m calling you guys,” a male caller said. “My girlfriend is in Pulse hiding in the bathroom, there are four dead and two injured and they’re about to die, and yet you guys have done nothing in over an hour.”
“Sir, we are working the scene,” a dispatcher said.
“Can you call her … you people ain’t doing shit,” the caller said over the dispatcher’s attempts to calm him down before being directed to her supervisor.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office released the batch of calls today, saying this latest release is of the “remainder” of the calls made to OCSO that night.
The City of Orlando has released only a small portion of its calls. Orlando, according to court documents, claims the calls are part of an active criminal investigation and are therefore exempt from public records laws. 
The batch of calls released by Orlando did not include an alleged call made by the shooter who, according to a transcript released by the FBI, pledged allegiance to the Islamic State. The Associated Press, Knight News and other media organizations are suing Orlando for that call and more than 500 other calls out of the 603 that were made the night of the shooting.



Universal Studios transformed from a family fun getaway to a haunted dystopia filled with ghouls and spirits from popular culture today – and it’s scary good!  
From the second you walk through the gates you’re greeted by an army of prisoners each ready to snap without warning. Then as you journey deeper through the park you cross paths with many other frightening figures, such as post-apocalyptic rival gangs and the chainsaw wielding maniac. So be prepared.
The mere act of walking through the park is just a warm up compared to the houses. This year’s feature homes are American Horror story, The Walking Dead, and The Exorcist. The lines will be long this Halloween season for these three houses, but well worth the wait. Once inside, you’ve emerged into a nightmare. The amount of detail that went into making each scene is incredible, you feel as if you’re there. 
Along with the main three houses, Universal has put together an additional six sets: Ghost Town, Lunatics Playground 3D, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Tomb of the Ancients, Halloween Hell Comes to Haddonfield, and Krampus.  Each of these homes has their own uniquely terrifying feel that will leave you panic stricken. Fans of horror will appreciate all the references to the actual story lines, while those unfamiliar with the shows and movies will still love the experience of it all.
Not only does HHN have nine houses, but it also spotlights two live shows, Bill & Ted’s Excellent Halloween Adventure and Academy of Villains: House of Fear. During Bill & Ted’s, audience members are entertained by the antics of these “two most excellent dudes” and are bombarded with a seemingly never-ending array of references to popular culture. Both shows feature a lot of dancing and are worth going to see. 
This year’s HHN is great, the level of detail that went into creating this world is breathtaking and there’s no doubt that Universal went all out. It takes multiple trips to see everything and experience all that HHN has to offer. I would recommend anyone looking for a good scare to check it out!
To find out more about Halloween Horror Nights or to purchase tickets visit their website. 
Knight News will be running the #KnightNewsContest this year, again! We’ll be giving away tickets to this year’s Universal Orlando Halloween Horror Nights – follow our Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter, to find out when and how to win!



