Students from the University of Central Florida will be riding up to Tallahassee Wednesday morning at 5:00 a.m. to spend their day at the State Capitol.
Participants will be lobbying on two issues for this legislative session: UCF Downtown’s expansion proposal and Chloe’s Law, according to an email sent to participants obtained by Knight News.
SGA put together a list of talking points for students to use while lobbying.
Chloe’s Law was officially filed back in October of 2015 after the tragic death of former UCF student Chloe Arenas. The law would require guard rails along dangerous bodies of water bordering state roads in Florida.
Over 100 students applied to go with SGA to the State Capitol, but not all were accepted. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for a recap on UCF’s day at the Capitol.



Former University of Central Florida wide receiver and New England Patriots practice squad player J.J Worton was arrested Saturday for assault, according to CBS Boston.
“Foxboro Police charged the rookie wide receiver with two counts of indecent assault and battery on a person aged 14 and over and one count of assault and battery,” CBS reported.
Police arrived to Waxy O’ Connor’s Irish Pub due to an assault report at around 1 a.m. where witnesses said two men accosted two women, assaulted a man and then fled the scene in a grey sedan, according to CBS.
CBS reported that Worton was one of the men in the vehicle.
Police told CBS “he confessed to being picked up at Waxy’s after an incident.”
According to the police report retrieved by CBS Boston, Worton told police he “accidentally brushed against one of the women when leaving the bar.” When he tried to run away he said the woman’s boyfriend confronted him, “whom he said he punched in the face in order to defend himself.”
“The two female victims from the bar identified Worton as the man who had assaulted them, and he was arrested,” CBS reported. 
Worton signed with the New England Patriots on Jan. 11.
Photo credit:Foxboro Police Department. Retrieved by CBS Boston.



Despite a gusty morning with the wind chill dropping into the 30s, dedicated booths and educational stations set up around Lake Eola on Saturday for the Greater Orlando 8th Annual Human Trafficking Awareness Day.
The event was hosted by the Greater Orlando Human Trafficking Task Force and Florida Abolitionist to help create awareness to the growing problem of human trafficking in Central Florida as well as provide free education to help the public become more vigilant to possible issues around them.
Milegros Rivera, a volunteer for GOHTTF, spent the day supervising the children zone, where there were various educational stations for children to participate in.
“The area here is set up to help educate children about the dangers of human trafficking and to help them become aware of potential traffickers in the community” Rivera said.
The children area included painting, music, games, and demos from Victory Martial Arts Academy. Other booths that attended included Ladies in Waiting mentoring program, Devereux child welfare services, and Redemption Story Bracelets.
Also in attendance was the Truckers against Trafficking organization, a media-based non-profit based out of Denver, CO. T.A.T travel across the country to various education events accompanied by their demo truck which contains exhibits of stories from past trafficking victims.
Helen Van Dam, a volunteer for T.A.T, stationed herself at the entrance to the truck exhibit, handing out informational packets to passing people and explaining details of the program.
“We’re talking about forced prostitution in America and how truckers are combating it,” said Van Dam. “Our goal is to educate, equip, empower, and mobilize members of the trucking and travel plaza industry to combat sex trafficking in the United States as a part of their regular jobs.”
A part of the T.A.T program is to provide training DVDs and webinars to truck drivers in order to help them identify potential victims and contact the right authorities.  The demo truck trailer, which has been used since August of 2014, helps give a visual representation of the reality of trafficking in our local community.
Florida Abolitionist and GOHTTF are organizations based out of Orlando that are committed to raising awareness to the issues surrounding human trafficking as well as educating the public to prevent further exploitation of innocent people in the Central Florida community. Anyone who is interested in becoming involved can reach out to the organizations at the links below.
http://gohttf.org/
https://floridaabolitionist.org/
 
 



