Five months after what was a long and stressful day for Deidra Reid, the state attorney’s office have decided to drop the criminal charges against the 21 year old female, according to News 6.
Reid was also charged with trespassing on July 20, when she was visiting The Retreat apartment complex, according to News 6.
Deputy Brett Parnell was acting as a courtesy officer where he lived and was working out in the clubhouse while his son was playing in another area of the clubhouse alone. 
Parnell said that his son ran into the gym upset than Reid was rude to him, according to News 6.
Deputy Richard Nye, another courtesy officer on the property, confronted Reid with his badge. Reid explained that the boy did not open the door for her. 
Reid was with a friend, Reginald Lane. Parnell claimed that both Reid and Lane were trespassing and he told them they needed to leave, according to News 6.
Parnell said that they both refused to leave and resisted him when he tried to subdue them.
Reid’s arm was pulled out of socket as she was put into handcuffs. Her and Lane both faced criminal charges, according to News 6.
Lane’s charges were dropped back in September by the state attorney’s office, according to News 6.
Reid’s charged were dropped on Dec. 23, according to News 6.
The state attorney wrote in its information to the court, “From the investigation which has been made, it is the opinion of the writer that this case is not suitable for prosecution.”
“The situation – – any situation – – could’ve been handled much better. That’s just how I feel,” Reid told News 6
Reid’s attorney, Natalie Jackson, says they are considering filing a civil lawsuit, seeking damaged for Reid’s arm and what Jackson calls a “slanderous” news conference conducted by Orange County Sheriff Jeremy Demmings, according to News 6.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
“She has had to endure being arrested, paying a bond. She has a mug shot. She has a criminal court arrest record that says she’s a violent felon,” said Jackson. 
Demmings said that the three deputies, Nye, Parnell, and Kristine Helms, were the subject of an internal investigation at that time. 



Orlando, Fla. – New defensive coordinator, Erik Chinander plans to bring a new defensive philosophy to UCF football.
“In this day and age of the way your offensive football is going, the way to win games on defense is sacks, plus turnovers, minus explosive plays,” said Chinander. “We have to be aggressive, we have to take some chances.”
Chinander wants to have a multiple defense, ranging from a 4-3 to a 3-4. UCF has used a 4-3 defense under the O’Leary reign, but Chinander is confident that he has the talent on the roster and the potential to get the right talent in the State of Florida to run a multiple defense.
“We’re going to play an aggressive style of defense,” said Chinander. “I know there’s a lot of talent in this state, a lot of talent currently on the roster. I think the guys we’re going to be able to get and or currently here: we need to be able to penetrate and be aggressive.”
UCF currently has six verbal commits from defensive prospects according to cbssports.com. Out of the six defensive prospects, four are three-star rated prospects.
“This team will lead the country in effort, I don’t know about the stats yet, we gotta get that thing all figured out, but we’re gonna play hard,” said Chinander. “It’s a team that this community will be proud of.”
Chinander has a strong friendship with new Head Coach Scott Frost, but Frost says that Chinander is here because he has a great defensive mind.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
“I have worked with him [Frost], but more than that, we’ve been as close of friends as you could have for 10 plus years, we were roommates at one point in time,” said Chinander.
“We’re close, I’ve known him a long time, but he’s not here because of that,” said Frost. “He’s here because I think he’s one of the better football coaches that I know. He’s exceptionally intelligent and he’s got a lot of character. I know the players are going to love working for him and they’re going to play hard for him.”



