Politics are a big part of University of Central Florida student Amber Mariano’s life.  They are so much a part of her life that she is now running for State Representative for Florida’s 36 District.
If Amber wins, she will be the youngest person ever elected to the Florida House of Representatives.
Politics engulf every aspect of Amber’s life, so it only makes sense she would run for office. Her father, Jack Mariano, is the City Commissioner of her hometown.  Amber serves as a UCF Student Government Senator, and she has interned with Senator Marco Rubio. 
“It’s always been my dream to start at the state level, I have always wanted to run for office. I just never thought it would be at this stage of my life, “ said Amber Mariano.
Though Amber never planned on running this early, the opportunity presented itself while she was interning in Tallahassee with Representative Rene Plasencia, through the legislative scholar’s program.
“Representative Plasencia is actually moving districts, and he was like, look I’m moving districts and no republicans are running no one wants to run, and I was like yes I want to run, I can do this,” Mariano said.
Since that time, Mariano’s Representative run has taken her from running here in the UCF District to back home running in District 36 against Democrat Amanda Murphy.
Amber wanted to change districts because she felt it would be better for her to run at home where she has lived before coming to UCF.
“I felt I was better suited to run back home because I have grown up in that District, I have lived there for 20 years, Mariano said.
Since districts, Amber has worked hard every day gaining support from the residents of District 36. She did this by learning more about the issues facing Floridians and settling people’s reservations about someone so young holding such a high office. 
“She has developed such a great understanding of the issues facing our state and she has also been able to get on the ground and talk to the people about what their concerns are in her district,” Ambers Father, Pasco County Commissioner Jack Mariano said.
Amber has gotten tons of support from students here at UCF, including her friend Brianna Bailey.
Bailey has tirelessly campaigned for Amber however she could, even though District 36 is nearly two hours away. 
“I’ve helped her mobilize College Republicans from UCF USF and UT. I’ve also recently gone to her hometown of Hudson to sign wave at early voting locations and ill be there of Election Day as well,” Brianna Bailey said.
“I support Amber in her race for State House because I believe in her future success in public service and I know this is just the beginning for her,” Bailey continued.
Since entering the Race, Amber has been endorsed by Senator Marco Rubio and Governor Rick Scott.
In the last few days prior to the election, Amber, her family, and friends have worked hard campaigning trying to make sure Ambers dreams can come true.
“I have been so proud of how she has performed in her debates, walking the neighborhoods and working early the voting precincts. She has definitely found what her passion is and I know she is fully prepared to serve. It has been great to our family get 100% behind her dream,” Said Jack Mariano.
Knight News will continue to follow Amber’s political path and follow up with her after the election cycle has come to an end.
–
This article is not an endorsement, but telling of a student’s path for Florida legislature.



UCF talks consent.
On Monday, UCF’s Victim Services will conduct a mock trial in the Student Union discussing the difference between consensual sex and rape. 
The event, which will take place in room 316 of the Student Union, is in its third year. During the event, they will engage attendees in a conversation about consent, show others why is it important to support sexual assault victims, and give victims the courage to take action.
“It’s a safe space to observe, participate and get information” said Christey Oberbeck, the coordinator of the mock trial and a UCF victim advocate, “It’s also an opportunity to see the complicated issue of sexual assault from the perspective of the victim and alleged perpetrator.”
The event will conclude with a panel consisting of a victim advocate, a faculty member, as well as UCFPD Police Chief Richard Beary to answer any questions.
Doors for the event open at 5:30 p.m. and the judge will convene at 6 p.m. The mock trial is free and open to the pubic, however the UCF Victim Services will be collecting non-perishabke food items for the Knights Help Knights Pantry, in an effort to support the UCF community during the upcoming holiday season.



