The wife of Pulse Nightclub shooter Omar Mateen knew about his plans to attack and did not try to stop him, Fox News reported.
According to Fox News  report, Mateen’s wife Noor Salman, was aware of Mateen’s plan to open fire at the nightclub and may have even been called before the attack.
A source told Fox News that Salman will likely be arrested soon.
“Meanwhile, the FBI is investigating reports that Mateen visited Pulse several times before the attack, a U.S. official told The Associated Press on Tuesday. A law enforcement source told Fox News that Salman drove Mateen to Pulse on at least one prior occasion,” Fox News reported.
Check back on Knight News for coverage of the Pulse Nightclub shooting.



An anonymous source confirmed that a Chick-fil-A Waterford Lakes employee, gay herself, pitched the idea of providing food to blood donors waiting in line after a domestic terror attack at an Orlando nightclub.
The “longtime” employee was distraught upon hearing the news that her community was devastated, feeling the need to provide a form of support to city residents. After seeking, and soon finding that way, the employee spoke with the Chick-fil-A Waterford Lakes owner on the possibility of opening on Sunday to prepare food and drinks to those waiting in the 4+ hour blood donation lines.
The owner heard out the young woman’s pitch and immediately responded with “Absolutely – let’s do it.”
Chick-fil-A marketing was contacted for means of communication and an announcement was soon made within the Chick-fil-A’s Waterford Lakes employees, asking for volunteers as they quietly prepared food and drinks. A promise to remain silent on social media and by word of mouth turned the 16-year-old building to ‘open’ for work on the day of the shootings – Sunday.
Over 100 CFA sandwiches, sweet tea, and lemonades were prepared free-of-charge to donors.
The building owner emphatically took steps to avoid attention as the charitable act followed through. Word would get out rapidly from the many Orlando residents in line at OneBlood after seeing the Chick-fil-A employees, and the young woman who pitched the idea, distribute the sandwiches, sweet tea, and lemonade.
Once the donations were cooked and packaged, transportation was the next step in the still-quiet undertaking.
A truck owned by management had a Chick-fil-A sticker posted on the back, and as employees began to grab food the truck owner noticed the sticker and decided against using the vehicle to transport food, all in the name of avoiding attention as the City of Orlando picked up the pieces of the national tragedy.
Hundreds filed in line at OneBlood locations across Central Florida, from Oviedo to Waterford Lakes to Michigan Avenue, only several blocks from Pulse nightclub. Dozens of friends, family, and strangers walked down Michigan Avenue to donate water, snacks, tents, vehicles, and time. Donors would wait in line beginning at 8 a.m., mere hours after the hostage situation was cleared by Orlando Police.
Dozens more in cars drove into the OneBlood parking lot and into the lots of adjacent buildings, dropping off more supplies as police and impromptu volunteers organized donations and redirected the overflow to other OneBlood locations in need.
The Chick-fil-A in Waterford Lakes, Orlando, took every step in the active atmosphere of the city to keep the donation undertaking quiet, but news would get out, and the young men and women who took part in an incredible response would learn one thing – love wins.
The story has been published as part of the healing process of the City of Orlando. No comment will be sought by the Chick-fil-A management.



Updated to reflect location change:
The University of Central Florida has announced a community candlelight vigil will be held at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, June 14, to honor the lives taken during the act of terror at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
The planned vigil will take place on Memory Mall on UCF’s main campus. The names of the victims will be read as candlelight surrounds the Reflecting Pond.
UCF President John C. Hitt and SGA President Chris Clemente are amongst those who are planned to speak, as well as members of UCF’s Pride community. Speakers will address Sunday morning’s tragedy and talk about its impact on UCF and the community.
The event is being organized by members of UCF’s LGBTQ+ community with support from UCF Social Justice and Advocacy. No bags will be allowed into the event.
Additional information about the event is available on its Facebook page.
Parking will be free to attendees in Garage-H.
Knight News will be streaming the vigil on Facebook Live for students unable to attend.



In the wake of Sunday morning’s tragedy at the popular gay nightclub Pulse in Orlando, Florida, a former classmate of the shooter Omar Mateen’s 2006 police academy believed Mateen to be gay. The classmate is asking to stay anonymous at this time but states this all stemmed when Mateen asked him out romantically. “We went to a few gay bars with him, and I was not out at the time, so I declined his offer,” the former classmate continued, according to the Palm Beach Post. According to the anonymous source, Mateen was a “socially awkward” person and reclusive about being gay.
Kevin West, a regular at Pulse nightclub, said Omar Mateen infrequently messaged him for a year before the shooting, using Jack’d, a gay chat and dating app. West never met Mateen until early that Sunday morning when he was dropping off a friend at the club. “He walked directly past me. I said, ‘Hey,’ and he turned and said, ‘Hey,’ ” and nodded his head, West said. “I could tell by the eyes.”
Many regulars of Pulse told the Orlando Sentinel on Monday that they believed to have seen Mateen there before. Ty Smith who also goes by Aries told the Orlando Sentinel that “sometimes he would go over in the corner and sit and drink by himself, and other times he would get so drunk he was loud and belligerent.”
He goes on to saying that he’s seen Mateen at the club before at least a dozen times.



