After several idle months behind construction walls, Universal Orlando’s Incredible Hulk coaster has received its long-awaited larger-than-life-upgrades.
Pieces of the original rides have been salvaged and recycled to build the sleek, modernized rendition of the green coaster the theme park has been known for.

The ride builds around a new story line detailed to subject experiment volunteers to high levels of gamma radiation – levels that will result in Dr. Bruce Banner’s introduction in to incredible strength and unmatched energy levels.
“Your part of the story begins the moment you enter the building – which has been redesigned as a state-of-the-art military research compound, commanded by General Ross,” reads the story line of the ride.
“Inside, General Ross is conducting an array of questionable, biological experiments. You’ll pass by laboratories containing high-tech equipment his team uses to execute his mysterious tests.
Next, you’ll arrive at the Gamma Core – an intense energy source that sends pulsing waves of radiation upward to fuel General Ross’s experiment. Not to worry – a thick pane of glass will protect you from direct exposure to the radioactive core.”

Patrick Stump, the lead singer of Fall Out Boy, performs an original ride song that will play in the coaster’s in-seat audio system.
The ride anticipates an opening in late summer 2016.
Photo courtesy of Universal Orlando media relations



The Peer Outreach Mentoring Program aims to connect UCF Rosen College students with goal-oriented peers in an effort to increase college experiences as well as grade point averages.
The idea of pairing students who are at-risk, academically, along with transfer and readmitted students has seen success as the program has become the recipient of awards and recognition.
Students who go through the program see an average of a .53 improvement in their semester GPA and .305 improvement to their total UCF GPA. An overwhelming ninety-five percent of students who participated in the POMP program saw an increase in their grades in the four years since the beginning of Rosen’s peer mentorship. A ninety-seven percent retention rate has given POMP the success it sought out when it began.
The program has remained entirely voluntary to peer mentors, who regularly consist of upper-class Rosen undergraduate students. From 11 members in Fall 2011 to 61 members in Spring 2016, bi-weekly meetings structure the program to keep students involved and set on personal goals.
Students who may have experienced a difficult first academic year at Rosen not only fall under participation of the program but also the vision of POMP: Partnering to reveal the hospitality leader within.
The month of April’s fourth annual mentorship ceremony saw Rosen senior Ryan Burke receive the Peer Mentor of the Year award in addition to the one thousand dollars that came with the award.
The peer mentor program prides itself in also being the first to form a Knight-Thon team for the Rosen College, raising seven thousand dollars in donations.
Photo credit: UCF
Read: UCF Rosen Introduces New Entertainment Management Degree



