The University of Central Florida Police Department swore in six new officers Wednesday along with a new Lieutenant from the Orlando Police Department.
Field training for these officers completed in July and additional training in the classroom and the field will continue before the officers take to the road. Each officer will be paired with a seasoned UCF PD officer and will be assigned to a patrol when training completes.
The new officers, described by UCF PD, are:
Below are photos that captured the induction:



S.N.A.P. will be back.
It looks as though bar raids will continue through the the 2016-17 school year according to UCFPD Police Chief Richard Beary.
When asked if UCF Students will continue to see a police presence at UCF bars Beary replied “Guaranteed”, adding “It’s just too important of a program”.
S.N.A.P or Sector II Noise Alcohol Patrol is an initiative launched by UCFPD and the Orange County Sheriff’s Office in 2015. The program’s goal is too ensure the safety of students and residents of the Sector II area.
This includes raiding the UCF bars in search of underage drinking. Since the program launched, over 100 people under the age of 21 have been arrested for alcohol possession.
However despite these results Beary acknowledged that the program has faced funding challenges, but assured Knight News that the department would overcome those challenges.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued UCFPD updates.



Getting around town can be tough without a car and paying for rides adds up quickly. 
Uber is hosting a contest for college students to where they could win a FREE semester of Uber rides. All students have to do is enter their school email.
Students can visit Uber’s website where they will be asked to enter their email and phone number associated with their uber account. 
Then, students will have the chance to refer up to three of their friends. Each referral earns students another entry into the contest. 
The winner will be picked and notified via email on September 8, 2016.
Good luck!



