Ten children with limited mobility can now zoom past their family and friends in motorized cars as part of UCF’s Go Baby Go! program.
In partnership with Orlando Health, UCF Physical Therapy Professor Jennifer Tucker and other volunteers came together on Friday, Sept. 9, to customize motorized toy cars into affordable mobility systems.
Battery operated cars normally require a gas pedal and steering to operate successfully. Tucker, with the help of a team of engineers, re-wired the cars and put a giant push-button on the steering wheel so a child can use their hands, arms or bellies to move around. 
The cars feature seat belts, a backrest, and cushioned sides to keep the child safe while they drive around.
The 10 children had to meet six guidelines after which their participation was sponsored, ultimately amounting to no cost to the children’s families. Tucker’s only request is for the families to return the cars once the each child has outgrown their custom wheels. 
To find out more information, head to the UCF’s Go Baby Go! website.



Interviews from UCF players and the head coach showed a team that was not as disappointed with their loss against Michigan as with other games lost in the past.
No. 5 University of Michigan defeated UCF 51-14 Saturday afternoon, but the team largely saw the game as an opportunity to improve the new form of offense run by Frost, according to the players and Frost himself. The outlook for the remainder of the season for the team is summed up by Killins, who said that if 14 points can be put up against a Big 10 level football team – number 5 in the nation – then 14 will be a number UCF can regularly pass through the season’s end.
UCF Football head coach Scott Frost:

UCF Quarterback Nick Patti:

UCF Running Back Adrian Killins:

UCF Line Backer Shequan Burkett: 




ANN ARBOR, Mich. – UCF was unable to pull off the unthinkable at The Big House, falling decisively to Michigan, 51-14.
“Our team played hard today, there’s absolutely no doubt about it. The passion, the effort, the physicality was there. Sometimes our execution isn’t where it needs to be. The team we played executed really well. We need to catch up with that and make sure that we can be as physical and play as hard as we did today and execute at that pace,” Frost analyzed immediately after the loss.
The Knights were outclassed in almost every facet of the game, with the exception standing for explosive gains by the ground attack. UCF amassed 275 yards on the ground, bolstered by four long runs over 25 yards; including two touchdown runs by Dontravious Wilson of 26 yards and Adrian Killins of 87 yards.
“Jim Harbaugh teams are physical, that’s what they’re known for. We came in here and rushed for six yards a carry against them. I think they had 2.9 – I’m looking at it – 2.9 yards rushing. That tells me our guys are playing hard and fighting,” Frost said.
Killins’ 87 yard gallop tied the UCF record for longest touchdown run from scrimmage, matching Coach Kevin Smith’s mark.
“We ran that play a lot in practice,” excitedly confirmed Killins. “It executes well in practice all the time, I have to read my blockers and read my defenders, know the safety rotation and once I get into the secondary I know I can’t be touched, I know I can’t be caught.”
“It’s all in the coaches’ hands. Whenever they put me in the game, whenever they call my number I go and I execute, I do my job and at the end of the day I’m here to help the offense execute and win games.”
Nick Patti was forced into action in the second quarter on the heels of what looked like an extremely volatile injury to Justin Holman as he finished off a 35 yard scramble, violently falling to the turf while attempting to either slide or get out of bounds.
The quarterback would not return to the game, but Coach Frost insisted that even if the extent of the injury was well known – which he refused to comment on – Justin may not have returned in the second half of the shellacking anyway.
“We have a policy, we won’t talk about injuries. He wasn’t able to come back in the second half and I’m not sure we would have played him even if he would have [been], just to make sure he’s healthy going forward,” revealed the first time head coach.
Holman potentially not returning even if healthy is not too much of a surprise when you look at the passing numbers. Both he and Patti struggled mightily to find an open receiver, ending the day 3-for-11 each for a combined 56 yards passing.
“Honestly the biggest thing is their defense,” Coach Frost said of the passing struggles. “Coach Brown is a whale of a coordinator, he was at Boston College last year; they don’t have the best talent in the country but they had the number one scoring defense in the country. His deal is to take away anything easy.”
“Their DBs were up, pressing our guys the whole game. They take away all easy throws. So the completions, you have to earn it. You have to earn it by protecting for a long time, you have to earn it by beating the DBs, either in man or in tight zone and you’ve got to throw it to them. Our execution in the passing game needs to be better but that’s their strategy; to take away anything easy.”
It seemed all game that the Wolverines’ pressure was just too much to handle for an offensive line transitioning to a new system. If you exclude the two long touchdown plays and quarterback carries, the backs managed a mere three yards per carry. Between time split by Justin Holman and Nick Patti under center, they were both sacked three times, but played the whole game under extreme duress.
Skewed numbers will highlight the 275 running yards as a sign of good things to come, but most of the significant quarterback keepers were not designed plays. Rather, UCF was able to take advantage of out-of-position defenders on broken passing plays.
“I think in today’s game, the quarterback, you have to account for him in some types of coverages and stuff and you can kind of lose the quarterback,” insisted Nick Patti. “That happened a few times today for Justin and myself, that’s something that [us] mobile guys have to take advantage of. You want to be sound and you want to work within the offense, but when those kind of plays present themselves it’s good to take advantage of. We both did today on plays where we made big gains. When they’re in man coverage and they turn their backs it’s good to gash them like that.”
To say the Knights struggled to contain the Michigan offense would be putting it lightly. The Wolverines scored on 9 of their 13 possessions, punting only three times and turning the ball over once on downs over the course of a dominant 34:25 time of possession.
UCF, on the other hand, scored on two possessions, fumbled the ball away twice, missed two field goals, was forced to punt four times and turned the ball over three times on downs.
It can be called a moral victory in a few senses of the term. The players were more upbeat after the game than in any loss last year, seemingly more willing to take their lumps and really learn from them. This year, everyone hopes, defeats like this will not spark team-wide dissent.
“There was no quit in the guys. One of the big things for them now is I think things crumbled last year when things went wrong and guys split up. I want to see us come closer together. These types of challenges should bring us closer together,” said Frost.
These Knights have a long way to go before they can compete at this level. For the time being though, Coach Frost sees a team that is falling into place just as he’d hoped.
“We’re moving in one direction,” said Patti. “A game like this doesn’t hurt that, I think what we can do is take everything we can from this and only help that cause.”



University of Central Florida football versus University of Michigan football in Ann Arbor, MI, on Saturday, September 10, 2016, in photos:
Final score: UCF – 14 Michigan – 51



ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Undefeated UCF squares off against No. 5 Michigan at The Big House at 12:00 p.m. Continue to check back for live quarterly updates of the Knights’ biggest challenge this season.
UCF has won the toss and has decided to receive.
First Quarter
UCF began the series with a big run on first down, converting for a new set of downs right off the bat. It was the only real progress made before Caleb Houston’s first punt was tipped but not totally blocked.
On defense the Knights brought a heavy dose of their own pressure, forcing a three-and-out on Michigan’s first possession. Two stuffed run attempts and one huge QB hit. UCF couldn’t make any progress when it was their turn on offense once again, and another punt attempt was blocked.
Michigan’s offense began to click after the second punt attempt. One downfield shot missed but the very next play featured a diving receiver moving the ball down for a first and goal. The catch set up a three yard touchdown pass from Speight to Jake Butt.
UCF 0 MICH 7
Holman came out energized, scrambling from deep in Knights’ territory to about midfield, followed immediately by a pass completed for a first down. After driving down into deep field goal range UCF was stopped and forced into a 4th and 12 situation.
The field goal attempt was blocked.
Speight didn’t waste any time when Michigan took over. He connected early, moving the ball well within UCF territory. All of seven total plays later and Michigan had punched in another 2 yard score on the ground.
UCF 0 MICH 14
One 3-and-out later, Michigan took all of one play to get on the board again as Speight launched a 45 yard touchdown pass.
UCF 0 MICH 21
Second Quarter
Holman saw a lucky break late in the first quarter when an easy interception was dropped, but was hit from behind and fumbled on the next play. Took Michigan five plays to convert a 24 yard field goal, but UCF did get their first stop on third and goal.
UCF 0 MICH 24
Heavy, heavy pressure and a pair of penalties force UCF to punt on 4th down and 31 to go, which Michigan returns to the UCF 12 yard line. Jake Butt reeled in his second TD of the day on the third play of the drive, another blown third down by UCF deep in their own territory.
UCF 0 MICH 31
Adrian Killins put the Knights on the board with a long, galloping 87 yard touchdown run down the sideline, tying Coach Kevin Smith’s school record for longest run from scrimmage.
UCF 7 MICH 31
No. 41 Demeitre Brim was ejected for a questionable targeting call, even after a booth review. He had absolutely annihilated Michigan’s receiver but seemed to lead with his shoulder.
Michigan would need a total of 12 plays to cover their next scoring drive, a 69 yard affair that ended in a 36 yard field goal.
UCF 7 MICH 34
Justin Holman had to exit the game after an awkward ending to a 35 yard scramble. He wasn’t touched but had his legs crumble underneath him as he started to slide to avoid contact, queuing Nick Patti’s entrance under center.
Patti and company drove to the 31 yard line but were stuffed to set up a 4th and 16, 49 yard field goal attempt. Attempt was blocked under more intense pressure.
UCF 7 MICH 34
Third Quarter
Michigan marched down the field with their first possession. It took all of three minutes and thirteen seconds for the Wolverines to drive 60+ yards before forcing a one yard touchdown run.
UCF 7 MICH 41
The ensuing kickoff was booted high and shallow, prompting a UCF fumble on the recovery. Michigan took advantage to the tune of a short field goal.
UCF 7 MICH 44
Nick Patti had an excellent heads up 26 yard scramble on a broken play to set up Dontravious Wilson on the Knights’ next possession. Wilson took the rock to the end zone with a 34 yard run of his own.
UCF 14 MICH 44
UCF was able to force a turnover-on-downs when Michigan fumbled their next punt attempt, but never made it past the 35 yard line. A failed 4th down conversion gave the Wolverines quick possession, but ended in a quick three-and-out.
Fourth Quarter
Michigan continued to pour it on long after this game was decided. A 30 yard pass from Speith put the Wolverines in the end zone once again.
UCF 14 MICH 51



Orlando Native turned N’SYNC super star Joey Fatone is opening a new Hotdog kiosk in the Florida Mall this Saturday. During the Grand opening, Fatone himself will be there to celebrate his new business. 
Fatones new restaurant is called “Fat Ones.” 
The idea for the name is based off childhood jokes aimed at the star,” My nickname was always ‘Fat One’ when I was young, and we just made a joke out of it,” Fatone told WESH.
Fat Ones is located between the Five Guys and La Madeleine, Knight News will be at the Florida Mall to bring you coverage of this event.



