Election day is just 36 days away.
The race for the presidency is in full swing with just over a month left to go before the United States will elect its next commander-in-chief.

Both candidates are traveling around the country campaigning to millions of Americans on why they should be the next elected person to the White House.
Vice President Joe Biden joined in that effort, speaking at the Cheyenne Saloon in downtown Orlando on Monday.
The Vice President touched on a number of topics in his speech including education reform, foreign policy, and the economy.
Vice President Biden didn’t hold any punches either, firing off several critiques of the Republican presidential candidate, Donald Trump.
The packed bar met Biden’s remarks with roaring applause and agreement, and were strongly encouraged to register to vote by the Florida deadline, October 11.
Check back to Knight News for continued political coverage.



As students walk to and from classes they may be asked, “Are you registered to vote?”
Soon those volunteers you saw throughout campus will disappear, as the deadline to be registered to vote in the state of Florida is Oct.11. If you are not registered by then you will become ineligible to vote in this year’s critical presidential election. 
In order to register to vote in the state of Florida, you must be an American citizen, be a Florida resident, and be over 18 years old. You will be ineligible to vote if you have been deemed mentally unable to vote, or if you are a convicted felon who has not had their voting rights restored. 
If you meet these criteria then you must provide your valid Florida driver’s license number or Florida identification card number. If you do not have either of these identifications, you must provide the last four digits of your social security number. If you have not been issued any of these three identification numbers you must indicate you have none of these numbers.
Once you have determined you’re eligible, you must print out the application to register found here.
http://dos.myflorida.com/media/693757/dsde39.pdf 
Print out the form, fill it out, then either mail or deliver the form to any supervisor of elections office.  
Below is the information for the Orange County Supervisor of Elections, Bill Cowles office. All other counties supervisor of elections information can be found on the form.
If you choose to mail your form, it can be sent to the following address:
Supervisor of Elections PO Box 562001 Orlando, FL 32856-2001
If you wish to deliver your form you must go to 119 W Kaley St, Orlando FL 32806.
For any other questions and concerns contact the Supervisor of elections office at 407-836-2070.



Early Monday morning, weather experts started to notice a path shifting from Hurricane Matthew.
Originally the storm’s path was headed through Cuba and up the east coast of the United States toward the carolinas.
Since then, the path of storm has started to shift more west and could possibly hit central Florida between Thursday and Friday.
Florida Governor Rick Scott declared a state of emergency for all Florida counties this afternoon around 1 p.m. est.
“I have declared a state of emergency in every Florida county due to the severity and magnitude of Hurricane Matthew,” Scott tweeted.
Governor Scott also advised Floridians to start preparing now for the storm.
“Visit FLgetaplan.com and be prepared with at least 3 days of food & water, medications, and a fully charged cell phone,” Scott tweeted again.
Check back to KnightNews.com for continued coverage of Hurricane Matthew.



Every year, Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer continues his tradition and travels to one road game to cheer on the UCF Knights. This year, it was against East Carolina, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
UCF beat ECU this past weekend 47-29 in Greenville, South Carolina.
Dyer told the Sentinel, “Ive been in contact with [UCF athletics director] Danny [White] for a number of things, done some letters of support, did some video for the presentation that they did a couple of weeks ago. Here’s my prediction: UCF joins the Big 12.”
Dyer went on to say how the downtown campus will help create a village of thousands of students in that area and that it would also ultimately increase UCF’s chances to join the Big 12.
When asked if he was biased Dyer said, “You know what, if you analyze it from an objective standard, it’s a no-brainer for that conference because of the academics, the growth potential, the recruiting base in Florida every year, every other year for some of the teams. I just think if they look at it and there’s no politics involved, that UCF is a really good fit for the Big 12.”
UCF will face off against Tulane at Bright House Networks Stadium this Friday at 8 p.m. as they look to get their fourth win of the season.



