A blogging community that believes rape should be legal arranged to have an international meetup day in various cities across the world, including Orlando.
Return of Kings, a neomasculine blog started by Roosh Valizadeh, is a community of men who hold radical beliefs on masculinity including the perception that rape should be legalized.
On Jan. 16, Valizadeh created a blog post announcing that on Feb 6 at 8 p.m. there will be an international meetup that will take place in 43 different countries across the world.  One of the meetup locations included the Red Tent Temple at Lake Eola.
As of tonight, Valizadeh announced that due to ‘privacy concerns’ for the members that plan on meeting, the international meetup has been canceled and the possible locations have been scrubbed.
Despite this, the meetings will may still be occurring across the globe, however, all locations and times are private and individuals looking to join have to create a “Disqus Proof” account where they can then receive the location.
According a report by WFTV channel 9, Orlando police have no plans on taking action to stop the meeting from occurring.
“Their views are protected by the First Amendment and as with all First Amendment activity we ensure the safety of the public while protecting the rights of all. No we do not believe certain groups are at risk,” said Orlando Police in the report from WFTV.
While the new location has not yet been confirmed to be in Lake Eola, UCF students and families should be aware of the possibility of this rape-promoting-group gathering in the Orlando area.



An intrusion into the University of Central Florida computer network has given unauthorized access to the social security numbers of former and current students and faculty.
The hack happened in January and officials reported the incident to law enforcement. Officials are working with national digital forensics on an internal investigation.

“To date, the investigation has determined unauthorized access to Social Security numbers — but not credit card information, financial records, medical records or grades — for approximately 63,000 current and former students, staff and faculty members,” a release said.
The main groups affected are noted to be current/former student athletes and Other Personal Services employees. 
President John C. Hitt released a campus wide email about the breach at around 9:40 a.m. on Thursday.
“Safeguarding your personal information is of the utmost importance at UCF,” President John C. Hitt said in the email.
UCF said they will be contacting those impacted via letters the week of Feb. 8.
The letter will include information on free identity-protection services.
UCF established a web page, www.ucf.edu/datasecurity that has more information about the incident and groups involved. The site will also have recommendations for those impacted by the breach.
A call center was also established for this incident.
877-752-5527 will have lines open 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday. The call center will have Spanish-speaking operators.
This is a breaking story. Check back for updates.



