Parking Services for the University of Central Florida has created a website that will allow students to check how many open spaces are in the seven main-campus parking garages listed.

A total number of open spaces out of total spaces available will be listed for Parking Garages A, B, C, D, I, F, and Libra. Construction on Parking Garage-C will likely be reflected on the page once the project completes this fall, amounting to approximately 1800 spaces, surpassing Parking Garage-A with the highest capacity on campus.
A mobile-friendly link will be offered as well on the Garage Availability (Desktop) site (Mobile).



UCF KnightMoves, the nationally ranked official dance team for the University of Central Florida, will be holding an informational session and tryouts in early September.
KnightMoves performs at every home football and basketball game, as well as at volleyball games and other community outreach events, entertaining and pumping up the sporting audience and student sections of both venues.
The informational meeting takes place on Tuesday, September 6 at 6 p.m. on the second floor of The Venue behind CFE Arena, on the North side. Entrance is through the East side of The Venue, near Knightro’s. Fall auditions are scheduled for Thursday, September 8 at 6 p.m., per UCF KnightMoves.



Panhellenic recruitment weeks ends with sorority bid day on Saturday, August 20, where hundreds of women will open their Bid for a sorority.
On Saturday these women will open their Bid card and then run home to their new sisters, with fraternity brothers lining the side of the street to watch sororities welcome the new girls home.
In 2015, 800 ran from the Pegasus Ballroom in the Student Union to Greek Park by Lake Claire.
Knight News will be at the Pegasus Ballroom and on Greek Park to bring you photos, video, and interviews from Bid Day 2016!
Bird’s eye view from 2014:

 



Parking passes can get pretty expensive. Wouldn’t it be great if you could get rides to and from campus, your apartment, and even the grocery store for free?
The fall semester is approaching and trying to find parking on campus can sometimes be a pain. Students at UCF also have the option to ride the free UCF shuttles. 
Details:
On Campus: Certain UCF shuttles will just stick to routes riding around campus, these are called the black and gold routes. They constantly circle campus on Gemini Blvd. The black route goes clockwise and the gold route goes counter-clockwise. These shuttles run from 7 a.m. until 7 p.m. during the fall and spring semesters and hit the bus stops about every 15 minutes.
Off Campus: Not everyone lives on campus, but don’t worry, UCF offers shuttles to and from many apartment complexes close to campus as well. There are a total of 14 shuttle routes between campus, apartment complexes, and Central Florida Research Park. These routes run every 15 minutes from 6:30 a.m. until 10 p.m.
Other Campuses: UCF also has shuttles to take students to and from the Rosen Campus and the Health Sciences Campus at Lake Nona.
Groceries: Every Tuesday, the UCF shuttle runs to the Publix at University Palms Shopping Center just north of campus. They pick up students at Academic Village, Towers dorms, and Lake Claire. These shuttles run every 45 minutes from 10 a.m. until 8 p.m., with the final pickup from Publix at 8 p.m.
Park and Ride: If you ever have trouble finding parking on campus, you can park at Lot E4 near the softball field and ride UCF’s Park and Ride shuttle. This shuttle picks students up and drops them off at the Health and Public Affairs buildings. The shuttles runs every 15 minutes from 9 a.m. until 7 p.m. Monday through Friday.
Shuttles can be tracked by downloading the UCFMobile app on your smartphone. 



