A State of the Union for UCF sports.
That is what will be taking place at CaddyShanks interactive sports pub tonight located on University. 
Visitors of the pub will be able to hear commentary from the head coaches of UCF’s football, mens’ basketball, and baseball team. 
This will be part of the Knight Talk Live Radio Show, which is conducted at CaddyShanks every Wednesday. The image above was pulled from the CaddyShanks Instagram, which they posted promoting the event.
The show has hosted head football coach Scott Frost a number of times, but tonight will have on three of UCF’s head coaches. 
All three of the head coaches to guest on the show were hired in 2016, and look to start a new era of UCF athletic dominance. 
Greg Lovelady, who was hired as UCF’s new baseball coach back in July will also be on the show. 
The former University of Miami catcher will take the helm of a squad that struggled in 2016, posting a record of 25-34. 
Knights fans will also hear from head basketball coach Johnny Dawkins, who was hired on after being an assistant coach for eight years at Stanford. 
Scott Frost, the only coach in mid-season, will be in attendance as well. Frost has led the Knights to a 4-4 record so far in 2016, a drastic improvement from their 0-12 season in 2015. 
The event will kickoff at 7 P.M.



President Obama will return to Orlando on Sunday to continue campaigning for presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton.
On Friday, the President campaigned for Clinton at the University of Central Florida, drawing a sold-out crowd to CFE Arena for the speech.
Donald Trump will campaign in Orlando as well, but on Wednesday and at the Orlando Amphitheater.
A mad rush has begun in Florida to secure the valuable Electoral College votes that the ‘swing state’ holds. Donald Trump currently enjoys a lead in Florida, but the current Presidential Cabinet and the former Secretary of State look to change that status.
Details on the location and time of the visit will be released by the Clinton Campaign closer to the event.




For the first time ever, UCF students will have the opportunity to visit Cuba. 
UCF students will now be able to experience a country that was previously blocked off to the United States for over 50 years.
The two programs, Cuba: History & Culture and Journey Cuba, will earn students three credit hours and begin this spring. The eleven and eight day trip programs will be one of the shorter study abroad programs offered by the University. 
Cuba’s 90 mile proximity to the coast of Florida and its low cost of living will provide students with a more affordable opportunity to study abroad. The University states that students wishing to participate in the program could do so for less than $4,000. This price would include airfare, visas, course credit, and more. 
Previously, a trade embargo between the United States and Cuba that was enacted in 1962 had restricted visitation to the country. But after President Barack Obama’s relaxation of embargo restrictions, students will now have the opportunity to visit the country.
Although studying abroad was not specifically banned during the embargo, restrictions by the two countries’ governments made it extremely difficult. But now students will finally be able to access a country that has been closed off since the Cold War, and learn about a culture that is prevalent in many parts of Florida. 
The programs will launch in the spring of 2017. Students interested in going can apply by visiting www.studyabroad.ucf.edu. While the applications were due for Cuba: History & Culture on November 1, student interested in Journey Cuba can apply until November 28. 



The Orlando Magic recorded their first win of the 2016 season last night in Philadelphia against the 76ers. 
With just seconds left, the game was tied at 101. The Magic attempted to inbound the ball with nearly just 5 seconds left. The ball was deflected and landed in the hands of the Magic’s Serge Ibaka.
Ibaka was under the hoop and attempted to put up a last second lay up when he was fouled by the 76ers T.J. McConnell. McConnell was called for a flagrant foul and Ibaka would be sent to the free throw line with a chance to put the game away.
Ibaka would sink both free throws to put the Magic up 103-101.
“I wasn’t worried about the pain,” Ibaka told the Orlando Sentinel. “I was worried about those free throws because I knew it was big time for us.” 
The Magic entered Tuesday night’s game 0-3. They trailed the 76ers by as many as 18 points in the second quarter of the game.
“We needed that one badly,” swingman Evan Fournier said to the Sentinel. “We fought until the end.”
Both Magic players Elfrid Payton and Nikola Vucevic finished the game with double doubles. 
Tuesday night’s game leaves the 76ers at 0-3.
The Magic’s next game will be in Orlando Thursday night against the Sacramento Kings. 



