Universal Studios Orlando hosts ‘Florida’s Biggest Party’ with its annual Mardi Gras celebration, bringing ten fan-favorite bands and singers on select weekend nights from Feb. 27 to April 16.
This Saturday night’s celebration takes place in the middle of the seasonal event, featuring parades, beads, food, and a live concert from Shawn Mendes – you might remember Shawn from Vine where he would post song covers.
Since becoming Vine-famous, Mendes has signed with Island Records and released his first album – Handwritten – in April of 2015, debuting at number one on the Billboard 200 chart. The 17-year-old has had many hit songs such as Life of the party and Stitches.
A general schedule of events includes:
A full schedule, and remaining events, follow:
Knight News will be at Universal Mardi Gras Saturday night March 19 to provide coverage of the celebration.



The University of Central Florida campus boasts numerous diverse species of trees that help to create the beautiful landscape of UCF.
UCF celebrated an early Arbor Day on March 17 by inviting students to take a walking tree tour around the main campus, plant new trees by the pond near Garage H and a second tour of Lake Claire’s nature trail.
Approximately 70 students participated throughout the day. Nine maple and nine cypress trees were planted with a grand total of $1,700.
The event began at 12:30 p.m. with the walking tree tour and concluded with the nature trail around 3:30 p.m. Led by UCF’s Arboretum, students were able to view campus landscapes and the Arboretum natural lands while learning about the different species of trees.
Arboretum Program Coordinator Jennifer Elliott said Arbor Day was observed because UCF is a certified Tree Campus USA and as part of that certification UCF is required to have an annual Arbor Day celebration. Along with this annual celebration, campus is required to have engaged students in service-learning events.
“Every year we try to go to a different part of campus and we’re trying to plant different native trees just because we’re always trying to teach students something new,” Elliott said. “For the students who are here for all four years we don’t want them to have the same experience every year.”
According to Elliott, Orlando is a very urban environment and so Arbor Day is a huge opportunity to educate students about urban ecology and trees.
“We’re going to have to be able to manage our land well, plant smart, understand hydrology and species diversity. It gives us an opportunity to teach students those things and have them apply that knowledge. I also think it’s important for them to actually put these trees in the ground,” Elliott continued.
UCF sophomore, Cidina Matamoros, and senior, Shelby Anderson, were among the students who participated in the Arbor Day festivities. According to Matamoros, an environmental science major, she has always had a love for the environment and learning something new.
“Getting to plant the trees was a lot of fun and it was a lot easier than I thought it was going to be,” Matamoros said. “This kind of thing is really important to me.”
Aside from the tours and planting native trees, students were able to enjoy pizza at the Lake Claire Pavilion and participate in a tree giveaway. There were extra trees to take home by the end of the event so students were told to help themselves, Anderson said.
“I love walking around our campus and knowing a certain tree and being able to point it out or fruit on a tree,” Anderson said. “I think that’s very insightful and it’s just little wisdom that you can pass on to anyone else on campus walking by.”
UCF’s Arbor Day worked closely with the College of Sciences in order to promote the celebration and will continue to grow moving forward, according to Elliott.
“It was nice this year because one of the reasons we chose this pond is because it’s close to the Alumni Center,” Elliott said, “I was saying to them now when you all graduate you can tell your parents I planted those trees.”



For many years, it has been the goal of the Muslim Student Association (MSA) to establish an official prayer room on campus for students to practice their religious beliefs. This past week, their hard work was paid off with the opening of the first official reflection and prayer room in the Student Union on March 16.
Mohamed A. Mohamed, a senior biomedical science major and current president of MSA, was one of the students who were involved in the process of establishing this prayer room for the UCF community.
“Ever since I was at UCF, this has always been a goal that we’ve been trying to get established,” Mohamed said. “Even before I came here, students in the past have been working to establish a designated room for prayer.”
One of the requirements of the Islam faith is to pray five times a day. While trying to balance hectic class schedules, students found it difficult to fit in time to pray, and an even bigger obstacle, where they could pray that offered privacy. Mohamed explained that on multiple occasions he has had to pray in stairwells and hallways between his classes.
Previously, MSA has been able to reserve a room daily, however, it was only for a two-hour time slot which still left students without a place to pray for the remanding part of the day.
Saifudeen Nausrudeen, also a senior majoring in biomedical science and the marketing director of MSA, explained that one of the strongest emphasis of having this prayer room is that it is all-inclusive and welcomes students of all faiths to come and pray.
“Our vision is for this room to be open to everyone, even non-Muslims,” Nausrudeen said. “It’s a great idea to have a specific place where students of all religious backgrounds can come and pray as well as learn about each other’s faith.”
While MSA has been the primary student club to organize the arrangements for this room, both Mohamed and Nausrudeen stress the importance of having other student organizations involved and actively participate.
“One of the core teachings of Islam is to work together with other faiths,” Mohamed said. “We have always maintained great relationships with other organizations here at UCF so the more people who come here to pray, the better.”
The UCF Student Union has so far pledged for the room to be opened for at least 6 months but are looking into keeping a designated prayer room open long term.
“For people of other faith, this will be a benefit for everyone so I think it is great that UCF is so all-inclusive to all faiths and diversity,” Nausrudeen said. “It just shows how progressive the UCF community is and how the UCF faculty is always looking to make students feel welcome.”
The reflection and prayer room, located in room 153 near the Pegasus Ballroom, will be open the same hours as the Student Union and students are welcome to come and go whenever they would like. There will also be an optional sign-in sheet available for students in order to show UCF the need for a prayer room on campus and that it is being used regularly.



