Knight News received the prestigious College Press Freedom Award Saturday in Washington D.C., after years of fighting to stop UCF secrecy by filing three open government lawsuits.
“UCF has fiercely resisted transparency on each occasion, frequently falling back on the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Statute (“FERPA”), even for documents that are neither educational nor confidential, such as reports of expense reimbursements paid to student government officers,” according to a press release from the Student Press Law Center.

Orange County Circuit Judge John E. Jordan ruled that UCF broke the law by refusing to release those expense reimbursement reports, which included expenses revealing which student government officers were sent to lobby in Tallahassee. Since then, UCF has appealed that ruling and is dragging out the fight even longer. 
The Student Press Law Center criticized UCF’s tactics, including trying to force Knight News to pay UCF’s crippling legal fee even when Knight News won in court. The university has also tried to disqualify Knight News’ attorney for speaking out against UCF’s concealment tactics at a UCF Board of Trustees meeting.
“We have rarely seen a university attack its student journalists with the viciousness of the University of Central Florida and its legal team. The university’s tactics have crossed the line from ‘aggressive’ into ‘rabid,’ with no conceivable purpose other than to harass Knight News and to inflict needless cost and delay,” SPLC Executive Director Frank LoMonte said.
This is the first time in history that the College Press Freedom Award was awarded to a strictly online student news publication. The award was presented during the Associated College Press annual convention.
The SPLC pointed out in the press release that since the Central Florida Future had ceased publication after a 48 year run that Knight News is the only news organization left to fight in court to hold the university accountable.
“Knight News is the information lifeline for the UCF community, and it has fought at great risk to gather the information needed to hold the university publicly accountable – information that is readily produced at other colleges without a struggle,” LoMonte said.
The Student Press Law Center was founded in 1974 and has ever since been determined to help high school and college journalists learn about the rights and responsibilities embodied in the First Amendment. They have also shown several publications support in covering important campus issues free from any sort of censorship. 



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF is steadily building themselves back up following a significant conference victory in the seemingly defunct Civil Conflict this weekend, improving to 1-1 in conference play and 3-1 on the road this year, but will face an entirely different monster this weekend in Houston.
Once touted as the best chance for a team within the “group-of-five” conferences to break the College Football Playoff stranglehold, the Cougars will now be climbing an uphill battle to make the conference championship (let alone the national title picture) after two losses to AAC teams in the past three weeks. This comes after weeks among the best of college football’s ranked teams and an early season victory against Oklahoma.
“Any team in this league can beat the other if it doesn’t play well,” said UCF Head Coach Scott Frost on the parity in NCAA football. “There’s close games all across the league, there’s upsets all across the league, I think this is a really good football league and really balanced.”
It is a simple way to look at things, but not necessarily an endorsement to the possibility of a huge UCF upset this weekend. Houston is still led by Heisman hopeful quarterback Greg Ward Jr. and the Knights don’t exactly have a template to knock off the powerhouse program, even with film on two successful tactics.
“It’s hard to relate yourself to Navy, their offense is just so much different than everyone else’s. They’re really good at what they do but it’s not, in a lot of cases, it’s not that similar,” explained Frost. “I thought SMU did a really good job schematically but they didn’t do anything crazy. I think their players just made more plays.”
Frost continued on to touch base with his team’s clear-cut strength this season; the defense.
“I said all along that the defense has been ahead of the offense as we’ve been progressing here, and the defense has really carried this team, make no mistake about it,” he said.
Now? The offense has some catching up to do, even with sparks here and there that signify a larger blaze to follow. Potential is not their problem, consistency and execution have been.
“If we were giving up a bunch of points, these games wouldn’t be where they were. I told the offense it’s time to start understanding how good they can be. At times our offense has been as explosive as anybody’s, we just haven’t been consistent enough, and part of that is believing that we can do it every time,” analyzed Coach Frost.
Thankfully playing on the road, even against a marquee opponent with a raging fan base, hasn’t unnerved the team-in-transition by too much. With a 3-1 away record it’s safe to assume that these players thrive in the moment, especially when faced with factors inherently working against them. Focus is not a trait that is automatic in collegiate football players, but rather a sign of the team’s drive to win. UCF seems to have that available in spades.
“It’s just kind of how it’s happened. We have been really focused when we go on the road, which has been a good sign. We’ve played really well at times at home, we just weren’t able to finish a couple of games. This team has showed up to play every week since I’ve been here,” said Frost.
Houston Head Coach Tom Herman knows that his squad looks vulnerable right now, acknowledging that this is the chance to bury the Cougars and for UCF to establish a true conference presence.
“They’re probably smelling blood. If I was on the other side at UCF, I’d say hey this is a wounded animal,” he said.
Even still, the Knights have a long way to go in proving that they are capable of hunting such dangerous game.



Over the past couple months, the University of Central Florida has been moving forward with the planning of its new downtown campus. 
A lot of the inspiration for the UCF downtown campus is coming from Arizona State University, the nation’s largest school based on enrollment. 
ASU’s downtown campus opened about 10 years ago, according to the Orlando Sentinel. Nearly 12,000 students attend classes on that campus.
ASU uses a light rail to transport students from its main campus to its downtown campus. UCF officials are planning to uses busses to shuttle students back and forth along the 13 mile trip.
UCF associate vice president Fred Kittinger has visited the ASU downtown campus three times since 2014 and said, “The first thing I noticed was the energy and vibrancy,” according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The biggest difference between the two campuses would be cost. 
ASU spent nearly $223 million on their campus while UCF is only planning to spend $60 million to open a building that would open in the Fall of 2019.
The downtown UCF campus would be built west of Interstate 4 where the old Magic arena was located. 
UCF would also be moving certain academic programs completely downtown to allow students to connect with professionals more and have a better chance of getting internships.
ASU officials say crime at their downtown campus has been minimal. From September 2015 – September 2016, ASU’s downtown campus only had 84 calls for service, none of which were related to violent crime. 



