The Valencia College community gathered together to pay respects to the 49 victims of the Pulse nightclub shootings on Wednesday, June 15th at the Performing Arts Center on its East Campus.
Seven of the victims belonged to Valencia College community.
“Our deepest condolences go out to the victims, families and friends whose lives are forever altered by this senseless attack. We extend our sincere appreciation to the first responders and medical teams who risked their lives and rendered care and assistance. This was not only an attack on the LGBTQ+ and Latino community but an attack on all of us and our city beautiful,” as said by Valencia College’s Facebook page event.  
The program was sponsored by the Peace and Justice Institute and Student Government Association. It included multiple speakers representing Valencia and Orlando’s diverse community. Students and faculty placed a flower for each victim in a basket at the end of the ceremony while a slide show played on in the background. 
“Our hearts are broken, but our pulse is strong. Together we stand in solidarity.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 



Before killing 49 people and wounding 53, Omar Mateen was a security guard at G4S security company.

According to Fox News,In 2010, Mateen was working as a guard at the BP Oil spill. During that time an undercover reporter making a documentary recorded Mateen For the documentary “The Big Fix”.
In the clip Mateen tell an undercover reporter, “No one gives a shit here. Everybody’s just out to get paid.” “They’re like hoping for more oil to come out and more people to complain so they’ll have jobs. Once people get laid off here it’s gonna suck for them. They want more disaster to happen cause that’s where their money-making is,” Mateen continued.
G4S has confirmed that Mateen is the person shown in the documentary Fox News reports. Knight News will continue to bring you more information on Mateen as it becomes available.




Camping World Stadium has been made into a family assistance center and the City of Orlando created a website, OneOrlando.org, to allow community members and organizations to donate. Walt Disney World, Darden, JetBlue, the Orlando Magic, AT&T, and more have donated from $100K to $1 million to the fund, even prior to its launch.
The University of Central Florida offers grief counselors to students and continued blood donation locations on campus.



Hundreds of students gathered in the Student Union at the University of Central Florida’s main campus on Tuesday, June 14 to honor those who lost their lives at Pulse Nightclub shooting on Sunday. 
The event put on by the university with support from Social Justice and Advocacy at UCF, featured multiple speakers and a performance by David Oliver Willis. UCF President John C. Hitt, transgender inclusion director at Equality Florida Gina Duncan, and government affairs manager at Equality Florida Carlos Guillermo Smith and Joe Saunders of the Human Rights Campaign, two former Knights, were a just a few of the speakers.



