The University of Central Florida Police Department hopes to get a new dog for their K-9 unit thanks to a fundraising kickball tournament hosted by Delta Delta Delta and Sigma Chi on Tuesday evening.
“The K-9 unit decided to reach out to us because they know we’re really great at raising money for our own philanthropies,” Karis Lockhart said. “We figured, why not do it for our own police department?”
Lockhart, a Tri Delta sister, organized the kickball tournament which was comprised of 18 teams, ranging from other fraternities on campus to local businesses around UCF. They all gathered around Lake Claire and competed against each other in the name of charity. Only this fundraising opportunity will hopefully result in a new dog for UCFPD’s K-9 unit.
UCFPD currently has four full-service dogs trained with both narcotic and explosive detection. They’re looking to buy another dog for the unit, especially since one of the dogs, Max, is soon to retire. With costs averaging about $9,000, they’re grateful for all the help they can get. 
Corporal Charles Reising, who is the supervisor for UCFPD’s K-9 unit, is especially thankful. He also happens to be Max’s handler. About two months ago, he asked Tri Delta at a meeting if they would be willing to help their department raise money for a new dog.
“At their next meeting they talked about it and voted on it and overwhelmingly agreed to do it,” Reising said. 
Although UCFPD doesn’t have as big of a necessity for a large K-9 team like the Orange County Police Department, Reising said that they feel more secure with having their own K-9 unit so that they don’t have to rely on Orange or Seminole County Police Departments. 
“If we have dogs on campus we can go deal with the situation if need be,” Reising said. 
Lockhart said that before the tournament, they had raised about $2000 with corporate sponsors and local donations. She and Tri Delta are hoping that with the extra donations for food and spectator tickets to the tournament they’ll be able to reach their goal of $5000, which is a little more than half of the average $9000 cost for a K-9 dog.
“We’re just trying to give back because they keep our Greek communities so safe and the UCF community so safe,” Lockhart said. “Our big goal was to help them.”
This isn’t the first time Tri Delta has helped out UCFPD. Riesing said that Tri Delta did a fundraiser for them three years ago, but that the kickball tournament idea was new. However, that doesn’t mean it was stress-free.
“Kickball seems easy and then you start coordinating 18 teams,” Lockhart said. “It’s a lot to work with.”
Corrie Chase, a Tri Delta sister, was enthusiastic about the game.
“It’s going off really well and it creates good relations between the police department and the local community and Greek life which is something that we really want to encourage,” Chase said.
In the end, the Knight Library’s team won the tournament 1-0 against the UCF Football Team. Luckily, this loss is in favor of a new dog to help keep UCF safe. 



Personal Growth, good vibes and self-resilience are some things that University of Central Florida students say they are most proud of and one student has set out on a journey to highlight this simple yet thought-provoking question.
Inspired by the famous photography page Humans of New York, Dominic Quiros, a senior film major, has set out on his own photographic journey beginning at the UCF campus.
Quiros originally started the Self Confidence Project as a part of a film project for one of his classes. The intention of the class project was to create awareness for an assigned film titled Best and Most Beautiful Things; a story about a blind autistic girl who discovers her true potential through self-love.

Quiros says that the context of the movie inspired this photography project in order to engage the UCF community in a positive way.
“A lot of people hold themselves back because they don’t feel good enough,” Quiros said. “This movie shows that you can overcome anything in life and I want to show others that they can too.”
The project, which can be found on the facebook page Domq Photography, currently features 200 photos of individuals and groups holding signs saying what they’re most proud of. The answers vary from light-hearted responses such as “my toes” as well as more personal responses. 
Catilina Reusche, a junior health science major, can be seen holding a sign saying “I’m proud to have been resuscitated and resurrected,” revealing that when she was 14 she had actually been pronounced legally dead before being resuscitated. 
“Life is precious and this experience showed me that,” Reusche said. “That is something I am proud of.”
The most popular photo to date that Quiros has taken features UCF student Sabiha Fazal holding a sign saying, “I am proud of breaking stereotypes… I traveled the world from Tanzania to England to New York…. to Florida AND I am proud to be an educated Muslim woman.”
“After I posted the photo, the likes and shares skyrocketed,” Quiros said with a laugh. “According to Facebook analytics, it reached over 10,000 people and has the most reach and shares.”
 While the class assignment will end on Thursday, Quiros loves how the project has grown and plans to continue this project, possibly branching out to Orlando and the larger communities.

“I grew up a little more lonely then most, so I see this project as a way to spread a positive message to others,” Quiros said. “Usually when I ask people what they are most proud of, it causes them to have to stop and think but it also helps to show them how far they have come in life. You have done so much in life, why shouldn’t you be proud of yourself?”
Hannah Keen, a sophomore majoring in international & global studies who is also featured in the project said that favorite part of the project is it is very thought provoking.
“It may seem like a really basic question that can be answered quickly but in all honesty it is really not,” Keen said. “I really had to stop and think about what I had done in my life and what I was proud of.”
When asked about what Quiros is most proud of, Quiros said that he has had time to reflect on it.
“A lot of people have asked me what I am most proud of and I finally know my answer,” Quiros said. “However, I will be the last one to participate in this project and will answer it on Thursday, so everyone needs to stay tuned.”



