 
Following the false gun scare within the John Hitt Library, the UCF Muslim Student Association held a meeting with Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, the Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment Services, on Tuesday afternoon to voice their concerns on alleged religious discrimination. 
A UCF text alert went out to students stating that a “possible Middle Eastern gunman/woman” was in the library. After investigation by the UCF Police Department, no person or weapon was found. While there are rumors that the accused student was a Muslim female praying in a stairwell with a Qu’ran, the incident is still under investigation.
UCF students, Muslim and non-Muslims alike, gathered in the Prayer Room to discuss what steps can be taken to ensure that future incidents such as this can be avoided.
“We’ve had many events where we have reached out to others,” said Maha Qureshi, the current MSA president. “We thought we did a lot but this incident shows we need to do more.”
Ehasz, expressed her own concerns to the events that have unfolded and ensured students that UCF was taking this very seriously.
“I understand it’s hard to deal with the fear that have been instilled within us for the past 15 years,” Ehasz said. “I never thought that there would be a problem with [students] praying in public but this is bigger than just praying.”
Ehasz discussed with students different ways to teach the student body more about the Islamic faith and create an even broader understanding on accepting all faiths.
Rasha Mubarak, regional coordinator for the Council on American-Islamic Relations and UCF alumna, stressed the importance of incorporating acceptance within the UCF student body.
“We need to create more of a dialogue,” Mubarak said. “Islamophobia is at its highest peak and there is a need for a campaign.”
Other students voiced their agreement, saying that with the intake of more international students and the opening of the Global UCF building, the need to create a bridge of acceptance with students of all backgrounds is a priority.
Qureshi expressed her gratitude on behalf of the MSA for the support the UCF faculty has shown towards those who have been affected.
“UCF has never been insensitive to the MSA,” said Qureshi. “Thank you.”
The UCF Counseling and Psychological Services is offering emergency services to student who may have been traumatized by the events and aftermath of Tuesday afternoon. Students are urged to call or stop by their center to seek support during this time.
 



New restaurants are coming into the Student Union and others are packing up.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette has confirmed with KnightNews the restaurant arrangements for the updated SU.
The restaurants that will be in the Student Union are Cafe Bustelo, Chili’s, Steak ‘n Shake, Which Wich, Panda Express, Huey Magoo’s and Qdoba. 
Chili’s will be taking over the Wackadoo’s area and is expected to open late 2016.
Cafe Bustelo in the Student Union is scheduled to open this summer.
Pollo Tropical and another Café Bustelo are expected to open by the Leisure Pool in early 2017.
The rest of the Student Union restaurants will open in 2017 or 2018.
Huey Magoos will extend to its full menu in place of its current partial options.
The document said student input has been a big part of the decision making progress.
The document released by Binette said that dining services will operate all of the new restaurants announced to date. 
“The Student Union’s restaurant lineup is not yet complete, however, as at least two locally owned restaurants will be selected at a later date,” the document said.



The UCF Police Department has released the emergency calls related to yesterday’s alert of a possible gunperson in the library.

The nine phone calls released to the press showed that the person of interest was a woman of Middle Eastern descent, but only one call was from someone who claimed to have seen the person in a library stairwell, appearing “panicky” during a brief encounter. The remaining callers were those who heard rumors from others inside the library or from Facebook posts. Many of them could not describe what the person of interest looked like and one caller even said that the person may have been a male.
But other students who were in the library at the time of the incident recall seeing a woman wearing a hijab praying with a Quran in her hand.
A statement released by Chief Richard Beary explained the reasons for the police response and that “those on campus can expect increased police presence over the next several days” while authorities continue to investigate the incident.

“[A] social media post about a person with a gun inside the UCF Library was brought to UCF PD’s attention,” the statement said. “Multiple calls to UCFPD followed, some of which described a person of Middle Eastern appearance, possibly a woman, having a gun in the library … Officers reached the library within minutes, and they went from floor to floor searching for details matching the tips police received. Ultimately, no gunwoman or suspicious activity was found.”
It continued: “I am proud of students who had the courage to report what they considered at the time to be suspicious activity. I am also pleased with officers’ swift and thorough response. Most of all, I am grateful that nobody was hurt.”
The social media post mentioned in the statement refer to a conversation on the texting app GroupMe, which was shared with press to clarify speculation that the post was from Facebook. In one call, a dispatcher asked a student to send screenshots to police over e-mail.
“[W]e saw the girl, we didn’t see the gun but (redacted) said she’s 90% (sic) sure that’s what she had with her hands and the girl was like Muslim and in a corner like freaking out,” the text said.



