From August 1 to September 2, the John C. Hitt Library was for more than checking out books and study sessions. The building hung up the secrets of eleven members of the UCF faculty and staff. Their secret? Art. One might have never suspected that a professor or someone working in one of the many offices on campus was a “Hidden Artist,” as the exhibit was rightfully named. It was the third year that this event has taken place to spotlight the talents of UCF’s staff. 
Immediately, one could be drawn in to the crystal-clear photographs by Gina Clifton, an Admissions Specialist. Clifton’s photos included a dazzling golden sunset, few of colorful birds and an obvious love for art.
“My passion for photography comes from a love of nature, people, places, and life. I enjoy capturing that moment in time and sharing it with other people. The gallery exhibit gave me another outlet for sharing my photographs,” Clifton shared. 
Among the most heartfelt pieces was the very first on display, titled “We Are…” by IT Business Analyst Senior Dawn Herrod which was a collection of photographs taken in wake of the tragedy at the Pulse Nightclub and displayed how the community came together to show their support for Orlando. 
“I spent several days visiting the memorials, often just sitting on the hot sidewalk reading the signs and notes, watching other visitors, and even taking water to the homeless man who watched over the site at Dr. Phillips. I think I took literally hundreds of photos of the memorials, visitors, and even one of the victims who was wheeled out of the hospital by his nurses to visit his friends’ crosses,” Herrod said.
“For the first time in my life, I saw a local and national outpouring of support for the LGBTQ community. It is unfortunate that sometimes it takes a tragic loss to soften people’s hearts, but somehow it did just that for many. Even if it was only for a short time, people were reminded that we are all just people trying to find our place in this world, trying to find love, joy, and safety. Taking the photos was therapeutic for me, helping me to process what happened. Putting the piece in the exhibit was my way of holding onto the support of the community just a little while longer.”
These artists don’t just sell copies of their artwork, they give back in ways that benefit the community. IT Department Manager Russell Muller, whose artwork features that of a dog sticking its head out of a window on a car ride, does just that. 
“I donate a percentage of all of my art sales to Halifax Humane Society, and they are my charity of choice when I make donations,” Muller said.
The focus of most of his images were classic cars. 
Other artists featured in this exhibit were Meredith Malkin, Pamela Williams Gruen, Simona Loh, Fiona Murphy, Judy Bragg Pardo, Brian Pate, and M.C Santana. The exhibit showed UCF’s community that staff members are much more than just staff members. They have incredible talents and are people with passions, just like students.
Library image a rendering of a reading room a few years way from construction.



Three chariots carrying the gods pulled through the campus for the Ratha Yatra celebration on Wednesday.
The annual Festival of the Chariots, as it’s called, opened as volunteers carried bright and lavish chariots in a large parade from Pegasus Circle to the Student Union at UCF, before hosting a multicultural celebration in the Pegasus ballroom encouraging tolerance of other faiths.
The ceremony represents the humanization of God according to Professor Deepa Nair, a Faculty Advisor for the Indian Student Association.
“It is an opportunity to see God and for him to see us,” Nair said.
Ratha Yatra honors Lord Krishna’s return to Vrindaban and originated over 5,000 years ago in India, in a city called Jagannatha Puri. The three wooden chariots are present for the three deities, Lord Balarama and Lady Subhadra, and namely the “Lord of the Universe,” Jagannatha.
High energy dances and drums filled the ballroom echoing the same chants that accompanied the Chariot parade which circled the Student Union in the afternoon.
Enthusiasts joyously dancing and chanting the “Lord’s Holy Names” remind those in attendance just how universal religious traditions are:
Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare
Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare.
Not unlike Allah or Yahweh, Jehovah or Jesus Christ, the supreme deity at the center of the Hindu occasion is the source of dutiful pride for those in attendance but people involved insist the festival is anything but religious.
Shraddhanjali Devidasi of the Hare Krishna Society described it as “a cultural outreach.” Similarly, Dvaipayana Das of UCF’s Sangam Club said: “this is about spirituality and self-realization, not religion.”
The chariot procession and wellness festival is part of a larger effort to tell people about the ancient civilization of India in colleges around the U.S. by groups like the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) who organized the event and performs around the world.
Several hundreds of students and enthusiasts from all backgrounds partook in the diverse celebration ranging from a Bhakti Yoga session, vegetarian Indian foods, sacred dance, and a lengthy musical performance from The Mayapuris and lasted nearly nine hours.
The diversity of the crowd even surprised Das who glanced into the ballroom at those enjoying the art of a Hindu sculptor. “We do not consider any boundaries, anybody comes.”
Undoubtedly, the sight of an open and embracing Hindu tradition greeting new faces with Kirtan world music and what they called prasadam (free food) is more than welcome.
For leaders like Nair the spiritual passion of the festival is crucial. “The times that we are living in, we need to be aware of the different cultures and be respectful of different cultural ideas and identities.”
 



A young woman attends a sexual morality conference at the Student Union, listening intently.
In front of her, a panel of religious leaders discusses their views on gender equality, homosexuality, and transgender visibility. It’s an odd topic, to be sure, but one that she said she finds fascinating. She studiously takes notes throughout.
When asked why she was personally invested in the conference, her answer was simple.
“I’m gay and I want to be a rabbi,” she said. “So I want to promote a better cultural understanding within religion.”
Kayla Symonds, a sophomore religion and cultural studies major at UCF, is the president of BAGELS+, a club for Jewish members of the LGBTQ+ community. BAGELS+ (an acronym for Bisexual, Asexual, Gay, Exploring and Lesbian Students) is a part of Central Florida Hillel, a Jewish cultural center for college students in the Central Florida area. As president of BAGELS+, Symonds plans events such as celebrations of Jewish holidays and scriptural readings.
“There’s a lot more of us than you’d think,” Symonds said.
According to Central Florida Hillel’s mission page, UCF has the third largest Jewish student population outside of Israel, with an estimated 6,000 Jewish students attending. UCF is also well-known for its LGBTQ+ inclusive environment – it’s the only Florida school to make Campus Pride’s Top 50 LGBT-Friendly List as of 2014. The combined support from the Jewish and LGBTQ+ community made UCF the perfect environment for BAGELS+ to flourish.
Symonds began working at Central Florida Hillel as a community engagement intern. She found her niche in the Jewish LGBTQ+ community after recognizing the need for more involvement.
“I’ve always found the struggles of the Jewish community and the LGBTQ+ community linked,” Symonds said. “Anti-Semitism and homophobia are two issues we still face today. And being a member of both communities means being a minority within a minority.”
Sam Friedman, director of community relations at Central Florida Hillel, also recognized the importance of BAGELS+.
“One of the things we’re most proud of is forming BAGELS+,” Friedman said. “We pride ourselves on being a center for the community, and the community means everybody.
For Symonds, Judaism is the foundation of her identity. She keeps her diet kosher, has a mezuzah (a scroll with Hebrew verses from the Torah) on her door, and observes Shabbat. A common misconception, she said, is believing that her religion conflicts with her sexuality.
“When people find out that I’m gay and Jewish, they ask, ‘do you really believe in it [Judaism]?’, and the answer is yes. Yes, I am gay. Yes, I am religious. And yes, I am observant.”
Homosexuality is a divisive issue within the Jewish community. The more conservative Orthodox Judaism generally disapproves of homosexuality, while Reconstructionist Judaism and Reform Judaism are more tolerant. Central Florida Hillel is firmly LGBTQ+ friendly.
“Some Jewish organizations say that homosexuality is expressly forbidden in the book of Leviticus,” Friedman said. “But Abraham, the first Jew, was known for welcoming every guest that came to his tent. You can’t be like Abraham if you’re not going to welcome everybody.”
“In Judaism, we have an expression: two Jews, three opinions. So a lot of different people will say a lot of different things,” Symonds said. “I firmly believe that it is up to you to interpret the text, and for me, the text embraces my identity.”
After graduating UCF, Symonds said she plans to spend a year in Jerusalem before attending Hebrew Union College to continue her rabbinical studies. The college has campuses in Cincinnati, Jerusalem, Los Angeles and New York, but Symonds said she’s not sure where she wants to study just yet.
“It depends on how things go with my girlfriend. We’re looking at schools near her,” Symonds said.
Symonds said her faith in the Jewish LGBTQ+ community was reaffirmed in February.
Symonds is active on Tumblr, and read the story of a German transgender woman who wanted to convert to Judaism. Her rabbi warned her that the beit din (a group of rabbis that oversee the conversion process) might require her to compromise her gender identity.
“I thought that I might be able to help, so I emailed a friend who works with French Jewish LGBTQ+ organizations,” Symonds said. “My friend ended up forwarding the email to Frank Giaoui, the president of the World Congress of GLBT Jews. And he emailed the former president. One thing led to another, and they found a beit din that would help her convert.”
“Seeing so many people respond was affirming,” Symonds said. “We have another expression: he who saves one life saves the world entire. I truly believe that.”



If you are looking to tailgate UCF’s first game for cheap, you’re in luck.
The free beer on game days is continuing downtown at The Basement until UCF football wins their first game of the season. 
The free beer deal came about last year in the middle of UCF’s winless season. 
The Basement posted on its Facebook page, “One last chance for free beer! UCF is going to absolutely dominate this season, so help us bid farewell to 2015 and welcome Frost & Company with one more round (or 10) on us.”
Head coach Scott Frost was brought in under new athletic director Danny White over the offseason. 
The Basement is open from 2 p.m. until 2 a.m. on Saturdays, according to their website. 



