Parking Garage-C has closed fully for final inspection over the first week of class, according to University of Central Florida officials.
The closure serves as an inconvenience to new and returning students although once inspection ends 600 additional parking spaces in the garage will open, handing the over the title of highest capacity garage from Garage-A to Garage-C. Approximately 1800 total parking spaces open to students when inspections end.
In the meantime, UCF Parking Services has carried out a garage availability site that allows students and campus-goers to monitor the number of open spaces in each garage (Desktop) — (Mobile).
The university also offers a ‘Park and Ride’ transportation alternative for students who want to skip the drive-and-idle search for a space in already full garages.
At Lot E4 (by the softball field, across from Bright House Networks Stadium and North Orion Blvd.) UCF buses will run every 15 minutes from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday that will take students on a short drive from Lot E4 to the bus stop in front of the Health and Public Affairs building. Park and Ride remains free to students and hours will temporarily be extended from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. to accommodate the parking garage’s closure and high demand.
Entrance into the available football grass parking lot, adjacent to Bright House Networks Stadium, can be found through its North Orion Blvd gate, across from the entrance to Lot E4. Hours for the football parking lot are 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
UCF has also rolled out a fleet of buses that connect 20 nearby apartment complexes and the Central Florida Research Park. These shuttles operate from 6:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. and can be tracked by GPS through the UCF Mobile App.
If you have concerns about transportation around campus, check out an everything-you-need-to-know article about riding UCF’s shuttles.




A man who suffered a fatal wound about two miles west of the University of Central Florida Friday night has been pronounced deceased and has been identified, officials say, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Orange County deputies were dispatched to the 10500 block of Cherry Oak Circle, just north of University Blvd. around 9:30 p.m. Friday night, said Lt. Joe McCollum with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, according to the Sentinel. It was there that they discovered the man – Richard Marcano Trinidad – critically injured.
Trinidad’s girlfriend, age 36, was at the scene when deputies arrived, according to the Sentinel. She was taken into custody and her name has not yet been released.
Trinidad was taken to a local area hospital by Orange County Fire Rescue medics, where he was pronounced dead, said McCollum, according to the Sentinel.
Further information on how Trinidad was fatally wounded is not yet available and it is unclear if the woman is facing any charges at this time.
The death investigation remains ongoing. 



