UCF (1-2) will square off against the FIU Panthers (0-3) at FIU Stadium on Saturday, marking the fifth time in six seasons the two have played. It will be a chance at redemption for many of the returning Knights, who were handed their first of twelve straight losses by FIU in the first week of last year.
The McKenzie Milton Show
Scott Frost wasted no time in clearing the air about his starting quarterback this week, announcing first thing on Monday morning that it would be Milton who gave his team the best chance to win in Miami. Milton is the first true freshman to start for UCF since Godfrey in 2010, and will need to build off of the 260 yard, two touchdown performance he put on in his debut.
The key here? He has to protect the football better. Milton had six fumbles last week but lost only three, and was credited for an interception that was tipped by his own receiver.
Just Like Home
To put it frankly, this should feel like a home game for UCF. The 20,000 seat capacity of FIU Stadium is often times more full of the opposing team’s fans, even with a student body 55,000 strong. Black and Gold faithful should outnumber the Panthers’ fans, handing a significant, if subtle, advantage to UCF.
One of the biggest improvements for this organization as a whole in the short reign of the Frost Era has been its success in recruiting, especially in recruiting speed. Miami is a national hotbed of talent, and the Knights will want to put on an absolute show to ramp up their recruiting efforts in UM territory.
Panthers’ Ground Attack
Running Back Alex Gardner has been the brightest spot on the winless Panthers’ roster, racking up back to back 100+ rushing games coming into this contest. Gardner posted 130 yards last week alone, is averaging 5.3 yards per carry, and currently ranks fifth among ground production in Conference USA.
Gardner’s carries have increased every game so far this season, though he has been used in the passing game sparingly. He will likely see 20+ touches in all, vying for his fourth straight game with a score.
Defensive Lightning
UCF’s defense flew under the radar this offseason with most of the talk surrounding the new regime centralized on the exciting new offensive scheme. They have announced themselves with authority thus far, taking flight much quicker than the new-look offense and setting the tone in most of their time on the field this season.
With two sacks apiece, Shaquem Griffin and Tony Guerad lead the way for the pass attack, which ranks third in the American Athletic Conference. The offense’s quick pace and slow start has led to a ton of time on the field for this unit, but very rarely will you catch UCF worn down or out of breath.
Opening up the Playbook
UCF has not even come close to working through their massive new playbook. In the first two games there was a set game plan to use certain packages and looks in opening against an FCS team and not showing too much, and then in using the clock as a weapon against Michigan.
Milton’s first start didn’t leave room to go through the whole tool belt either, but the offense did run a whopping 98 plays in his first action. A better prototypical fit for the Frost System, Hawaiian gunslinger McKenzie Milton will be tasked with speeding the play up even more as he gains his footing with this team.



