Cyle Larin entered again into his cycle of scoring, opening the game in the 5th minute with a goal to set the Lions ahead 1-0.
Larin earned Rookie of the Year honors in the club’s inaugural season and returned undeterred by any form of ‘sophomore slump.’
The Chicago Fire organized their offense to challenge Orlando City goalkeeper Joseph Bendik in the 10th minute, although yielded no result. This would change several minutes later on a fast break to Bendik where the outstretched goalkeeper couldn’t deflect the path of the ball, evening the score to 1-1.
Another fifteen minutes passed to see the Fire strike the goalpost with a shot, nearly seizing the lead.
Orlando City’s Cyle Larin walked off due to a minor medical issue that involved Chicago goalkeeper Matt Lampson mistakenly knee-ing Larin in the arm on a jump.
Winter earned the closest shot on goal in the second half, rushing from midfield through defenders and firing to Lampson, who caught the ball for a no-goal.
Antonio Nocerino subbed out for Pedro Ribiero in the 63rd minute, Nocerino’s first sixty-three in MLS, following a penalty break against the Lions’ Cristian Higuita.
Kevin Molino tripped on a surefire chance on goal, soon named a penalty against Chicago while giving Orlando a free kick led by Brek Shea. The kick went astray, as did a corner kick opportunity a minute later.
Molino back-kicked a pass to Cyle Larin who shot toward left-goal on a path to the net although Lampson would dive in to deflect the pass again. Molino came back in the 80th minute to feed Hadji Barry on a one-on-one with Lampson, with the latter diving down to disrupt Barry from completing a kick.
Head coach Adrian Heath expressed his thoughts on the match, citing a disappointment in the outcome.
The Lions travel to New York City to play rival NYCFC at Yankee Stadium on March 18th.
 



ORLANDO, Fla. – A miracle heave from freshman Jalen Adams to send the game into quadruple overtime gave the UConn Huskies just enough time to top the Cincinnati Bearcats 104-97 on Friday afternoon.
Adams, a freshman guard, scored 15 of his 22 points in the four overtime periods which included the shocking 3-pointer with .8 seconds left on the clock.
Sophomore guard/forward Daniel Hamilton was a standout performer throughout the game, finishing with 32 points, 12 rebounds and 8 assists. Hamilton repeatedly found himself at the free throw line towards the end of the game and he knocked down 12 of 14 free throws.
The first half started slowly as both teams had trouble finding clean looks and seemingly had to shake off some rust from their layover heading into the tournament. However, it would be Cincinnati that found their shot first with the Bearcats dynamic backcourt of senior Farad Cobb and junior Troy Caupain doing most of the damage.
Caupain, named first team all-conference in the American on Mar. 10, put up a phenomenal effort with 37 points, 10 rebounds and 5 assists in the game.
Cobb was deadly from beyond the arc early on with all eight of his shots in the first half from long range and connecting on three of them. UConn did not have nearly the same fortune as the Bearcats from the 3-point line in the first half, shooting an anemic 27.3 percent.
The Huskies were forced to rely on junior guard Rodney Purvis for much of the game with the rest of the team struggling to find the bottom of the net. Cincinnati’s zone defense started to shift its focus towards stopping Purvis, forcing UConn to look for scoring production elsewhere.
Graduate student and guard Sterling Gibbs answered the call for the Huskies with back-to-back makes from long range to cut the lead to 3 early in the second half. Those makes sparked the entire team as UConn went on a 14-2 run to snatch the lead.
But the Bearcats were not finished as they rallied in the final three minutes and went on a 7-0 run to tie up the game and send it to the first of four overtime periods.
At that point, both Cincinnati and UConn traded shots back and forth until towards the end of the third overtime. The Bearcats’ Kevin Johnson stunned the Huskies with a huge 3-pointer which left the now infamous .8 seconds on the clock.
UConn reversed their shooting woes of the first half as they knocked down 48 percent of their shots from the field in the rest of the game. The Huskies will take on the #1 seed Temple Owls in the American Athletic Conference Tournament semifinal on Saturday at 3 p.m.



The University of Central Florida Police Department is asking for help to identify a suspect who stole items from a purse of an Alpha Delta Pi sorority sister.
The victim told UCFPD that she attended an event at the sorority house on January 18 at around 6 p.m. She told the police that their items were in another room being supervised by another member of the sorority, according to a UCF police report.
At around 9 p.m. that night, the victim told UCFPD she grabbed her purse at the conclusion of the meeting, according to a UCF police report.
It wasn’t until around 1 p.m. the next day that she discovered that she was missing several items from her bag.
Some of the stolen items were used at a local Walmart located on East Colonial Drive, according to a UCF police report.
The UCF Police Department asks anyone who has any information related to the case to contact them. Pictures of a suspect can be seen below.






On Friday afternoon, Florida Senate and House of Representative members voted on Chloe’s Law, passing the bill nine months after a University of Central Florida student fell victim to a vehicular drowning three miles from the UCF main campus.
Expedited by bipartisan support, a consensus swiftly made its way after the bill’s official filing in October.
The House approved the final draft, adding an amendment, and sent the bill to the Senate to be reviewed and decided within the hour. The near-final step in the congressional process sailed 117-2 in the House and 39-1 in the Senate around 4 p.m. ET on Friday.
Now what’s left is for the piece of legislature to be signed by Florida Governor Rick Scott before it becomes adopted by the state on July 1, 2016.
The most recent draft of Chloe’s Law requested that a review of deaths (due to vehicular drowning) that occurred in Florida over a ten year period beginning in 2006 be conducted, with safety measures to be placed following the historical review.
According to data gathered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, The Orlando Sentinel and WKMG, Florida has remained the state with the highest fatalities in the United States due to drownings inside vehicles. News stations throughout the state, such as the Tampa Bay Times, Univision, Fox 35, the Miami New Times, and more, picked up on the story to follow its progression.
Knight News has worked with Chloe’s close friends and family from the day of event, breaking news of the legislative declaration, through its entirety. House Representative Rene Placensia and Senator Darren Soto have led the process, working with Knight News along the way. Both congressmen have been reached for public comment.
A copy of the bill and timeline of progression will be published upon release.
—
Original story – published 07/05/15
Faced with the death of a loved one, when UCF student Chloe Arenas tragically lost her life in a retention-pond crash, family and friends of the 21-year-old have begun the journey of proposing legislation that would prevent loss of life in identical, future accidents.
Sunday, June 28 saw the biomedical-sciences student leave her friend’s house at 4 a.m. to pick up her mother and grandmother for a trip to Nicaragua.
An hour later, she would abruptly lose control of her Hyundai when approaching the 408 exit ramp onto N. Alafaya Trail, leading the car to plunge into a retention-pond across the interchange. Tow trucks arrived at the scene to assist emergency vehicles in the retrieval but were unable to recover the car in time.
Taking charge of the proposal is Clarissa Lindsey, Arenas’ best friend since they were two years old.
The Arenas family held a memorial service for their loved one on Friday, July 3 where family and close friends honored Chloe’s life. At the service, Lindsey and the Arenas family made public their journey to proposing a law in tribute to their Knight – Chloe’s Law.
“Chloe’s law aims to require the implementation of guard rails along dangerous bodies of water that accompany road ways in Florida,” Lindsey said. “This is an ongoing issue in Florida, being that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that Florida is the most dangerous place in the nation regarding victims who drown in submerged vehicles.”
In 2011, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reviewed crash data and death records from 2004 to 2007 and concluded that Florida averaged 57 deaths by drownings in those years, with 384 deaths occurring nationwide.
The Orlando Sentinel continued a review of the federal crash data, surveying records from 2008 to 2012, finding that Florida again topped the nation with 49 drownings inside vehicles during the five-year period. Texas came in a distant second with 18 deaths followed by Indiana with 14 deaths, and Louisiana and Arizona with 10 deaths in each state, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
Arenas began classes at UCF in the summer of 2012 and enrolled in courses at Valencia College on a path of becoming a veterinarian.
Driven by a passion for zoo and domestic animals, she could be seen caring for many, including her bearded dragon, dog and a cat that she found alongside a road, with dreams of one day treating elephants in Africa.
“Though I am confident that this law will save many lives, it will be a success if we are able to save only one,” Lindsey said.
“The next step in the process is to finish the research and completion of the first draft of the policy proposal. I plan to seek out House representatives and senators in support of this beneficial and necessary bill.”
A Change.org petition has been made in support of the proposed bill.



ORLANDO, Fla. – The #1 seed Temple Owls had no trouble in dispatching the #9 seed USF Bulls as they advanced to the AAC Tournament semi-final with a 79-62 victory on Friday afternoon.
“Very good win for us. And happy to be here sitting here after a good first round victory,” Temple head coach Fran Dunphy said. “I thought we played fairly well throughout. I think McMurray’s a really hard guy to guard and I thought Josh Brown did a terrific job on him.”
Temple came out shooting 3-pointers to great success early on and did an excellent job of spreading the ball around. Four different players had makes from beyond the arc for the Owls before the 10 minute mark of the first half.
The Bulls were a bit sluggish to start the game, but a 9-0 run late in the first half helped get the game back within range. Junior Chris Perry followed up his strong performance against the East Carolina Pirates with 19 points and 8 rebounds.
“We held with [Temple], but on the offensive glass, that’s where they got us,” Perry said. “Big bodies versus big bodies, there’s going to be physicality. We matched it, but not on the offensive boards.”
Temple obliterated the Bulls on the glass with 15 offensive rebounds in the game which resulted in the Owls scoring 19 second chance points.
Senior forward Jaylen Bond for the Owls found space to shoot all over the floor in the first half and eventually finishing with 17 points while creating defensive mismatches all game against the Bulls. Bond’s 6-foot-8 presence on the wing cut into the Bulls’ zone with ease which eventually opened up space for their 3-point shooters in the second half.
“I know my time here is winding down, so I’m trying to give them 100 percent effort to finish out my season strong for me and my teammates,” Bond said.
The game really got out of hand when Temple went on a 12-2 run midway through the second half which extended their lead to 20 points. Sophomore Obi Enechionyia, despite being in foul trouble for most of the game, maximized his limited minutes with 13 points and 5 rebounds.
“I think we have a lot of fight,” Enechionyia said. “In the regular season we would have games where we would be down 10, 12, 15 in the second half and we would be able to come back and win that game.”
Temple will move on to face the winner of the Cincinnati/UConn game in the American Athletic Conference tournament semifinal tomorrow at 3 p.m.
Photo by Edward Fabara/The Skyboat



Knight News has learned from an email released by the University of Central Florida that the Student Government Election Commission will be holding a secret hearing Wednesday that could decide if a candidate will be thrown off the ballot. 
Closing these hearings is unprecedented — these election hearings have always been open in the past. 
The hearing comes as a result of candidate Jacob Milich saying he would run before SGA allowed him to say so. This comes after Milich told SGA he would sue it for violating his first amendment rights.
Knight News emailed David Oglethorpe, UCF’s record custodian and communication coordinator and asked for any emails that may have been sent regarding the closure of the violation hearing.
Oglethorpe sent an email chain to Knight News that was exchanged by the candidate and Katie Marshall, SGA’s Election Commission Advisor. In that email, Marshall told the candidate that the meeting would be closed to the public, which according to Knight News’ attorney, would violate the Sunshine Law.
After sending the email, Oglethorpe was quick to realize he had made a mistake and sent another email to Knight News stating, “This previous email was inadvertently sent and its attachment is unreleasable as per FERPA restrictions. Please delete the message dated Fri 3/11/2016 10:58 AM.”
Knight News and its attorney Justin Hemlepp will sue to enforce the public’s right to oversee its government if the hearing is closed.
Check back to Knight News for continued updates on this story.



