The Feb. 16 deadline to register to vote in the upcoming primary elections is less than a week away.
With millennials making up 30 percent of eligible voters and with higher education being a hot-button issue, students are encouraged to register to vote.
In order to vote in Orange County, which includes UCF, those above the age of 18 have to register in a place of residence within the county. Legal residents of other states can register to vote by using a valid Florida address.
For many students, that place is an on-campus dorm, which presents a challenge when registering to vote. It was possible before to use UCF’s general physical address or even that of the community mailing center on the voter registration form, but now it is required to use the address of particular dorm buildings along with a respective apartment number. Doing otherwise could result in the application being denied.
The physical addresses of each dorm building can be found here and below.
The application also requires applicants to provide their Florida ID or driver’s license number, or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
While voters can register for any party of their choosing, Florida is a closed primary state, which means that they must register with the same party affiliation as their preferred candidate in order to cast a ballot in their favor on March 15.
Students can register in person at a local DMV or at the county elections office, or they can download and print a copy of the application and send it completed by mail. 
Some on-campus student organizations also assist students through the entire process, including delivering the forms. Knights for Bernie is hosting a voter registration drive at the Student Union on Feb. 10 to Feb. 12 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Alternatively, students can register through TurboVote, a non-profit that partners with colleges and universities, including UCF, to register voters online.
Apollo
Lake: 4120 Pyxis Lane
Osceola: 4108 Pyxis Lane
Polk: 4096 Pyxis Lane
Volusia: 4132 Pyxis Lane
 
Hercules
108: 4139 Ursa Minor Street
109: 4125 Ursa Minor Street
110: 4133 Ursa Minor Street
111: 4155 Ursa Minor Street
112: 4147 Ursa Minor Street
113: 4120 Ursa Minor Street
114: 4128 Ursa Minor Street
 
Lake Claire Apartments
55: 12612 Gemini Blvd. N
56: 12606 Gemini Blvd. N
57: 12600 Gemini Blvd. N
58: 12592 Gemini Blvd. N
59: 12586 Gemini Blvd. N
60: 12568 Gemini Blvd. N
61: 12562 Gemini Blvd. N
62: 12556 Gemini Blvd. N
63: 12550 Gemini Blvd. N
64: 12574 Gemini Blvd. N.
66: 12538 Gemini Blvd. N
67: 12532 Gemini Blvd. N
68: 12526 Gemini Blvd. N
69: 12520 Gemini Blvd. N
70: 12544 Gemini Blvd. N
 
Libra
Brevard: 4048 Libra Drive
Citrus: 4024 Libra Drive
Flagler: 4000 Libra Drive
Orange: 4032 Libra Drive
Seminole: 4008 Libra Drive
Sumter: 4016 Libra Drive
 
Neptune
156: 3676 Libra Drive
157: 3700 Libra Drive
158: 3692 Libra Drive
 
Nike
101: 3740 Libra Drive
102: 3732 Libra Drive
103: 3724 Libra Drive
104: 3756 Libra Drive
105: 3748 Libra Drive
106: 3708 Libra Drive
107: 3716 Libra Drive
 
Towers at Knights Plaza
1: 4274 West Plaza Drive
2: 4290 West Plaza Drive
3: 4167 Mensa Lane
4: 4291 Mensa Lane
 



ORLANDO, Fla. – The UCF Knights struggled from the free throw line and turned the ball over 18 times in the loss to the Cincinnati Bearcats 69-51.
“In the first half we didn’t, we stayed in the rhythm and we moved the ball,” UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones said. “We got good shots and we didn’t beat ourselves by turning the ball over, but in the second half we got rattled for whatever reason. We couldn’t get anything going from free throws to making a shot and they continued to stay in a rhythm which built a lead that was hard to come back from.”
UCF has now dropped five of their last six games which leaves them in 8th place in the American Athletic Conference. The Knights leaned heavily on the performances of guard Matt Williams and forward AJ Davis for their scoring against the Bearcats. Williams scored a career-high 24 points while Davis added 16 of his own which collectively accounted for just under 80 percent of the Knights scoring in the game.
“My teammates, they know I can shoot, so they just motivate me,” Williams said. “I’d say that most of it just came from the confidence from my teammates and the rest was preparation.”
The loss of Adonys Henriquez has also played a major role in the team’s struggles on offense as the sophomore is the team’s second leading scorer. Without Henriquez, the Knight have shot a miserable 38.1 percent from the field and his replacement Tanksley Efianayi scored just one point on Tuesday night.
Meanwhile, the Bearcats spread the ball around rather well with four members of their starting five registering in the double digits. The Knights were able to slow down the Bearcats lead-scorer Troy Caupain who made just 1 of his 11 shots, but sophomore forward Gary Clark and senior guard Farad Cobb were able to make up for his poor performance.
Clark, in particular, was a do-it-all forward for the Bearcats as he filled up the stat sheet with 11 points, 8 rebounds, 5 assists and 4 blocks. The sophomore has been a revelation for the University of Cincinnati this season and will play a big factor in just how well the team fares in the tournament.
The Bearcats, as a whole, out-rebounded the Knights 43 to 30 and had a staggering 16 offensive boards.
“We just have to do a better job of matching up on rebounding,” Davis said. “I think we get too caught up in just watching our bigs. Tacko is a big body, Justin is a big body and we sometimes just expect them to grab every board.”
UCF’s next contest comes against Houston who upset #12 SMU just eight days ago and have won three of their last four games.
The University of Houston’s dynamic scoring duo of Devonta Pollard and Damyean Dotson have helped lead the Cougars to the second highest scoring offense in the AAC. UCF will need to have solved some of their recurring issues in order to keep it close with yet another tough AAC team.



If an elected Student Government Association official wastes your money or spends it illegally, you may never know. However, if someone in SGA commits rape, you have the right to know. 
That appears to be the new reality here at the University of Central Florida, if Friday’s ruling from the 5th District Court of Appeal in Knight News vs. UCF stands.

Even though the court confirmed that Knight News “set forth valid public policy arguments as to why the type of records and information requested in this case should be subject to public disclosure,” the appellate court affirmed the trial court’s orders, finding student government budget and misconduct records are protected by the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act, known as FERPA.
While the ruling hurts the public’s ability to monitor allegations of improper SGA spending, which Knight News was seeking, the ruling appears to leave the door open to more transparency when it comes to “crimes of violence” and sexual assault. 
“FERPA does permit the release of certain student disciplinary records and information where the alleged misconduct constitutes a crime of violence or a nonforcible sex offense,” the court wrote in its opinion. 
In explaining its decision denying Knight News access to SGA election and impeachment affidavits the court said, “In the case before us, there is no suggestion that the nondisclosed information fell within one of these exceptions.”
However, the court explained that the ruling is “not final until the time expires to file motion for rehearing and disposition thereof if filed.”
Knight News is planning to file the motion asking for a rehearing, or alternatively, for the appellate court’s stamp of approval in having the case heard by the Florida Supreme Court.
Appellate courts have certified cases to be of great public importance and presented before the Supreme Court if “the question involves public policy,” according to the seventh edition of Florida Appellate Practice and Advocacy.
Based off of the information from the seventh edition of Florida Appellate Practice and Advocacy, the fact that the court recognized Knight News has “valid public policy arguments” could be a major point in getting the Florida Supreme Court to hear the case, despite the court’s belief the arguments are at least “more properly addressed to the appropriate legislative bodies.”
UCF had repeatedly threatened Knight News to drop the case or pay crippling sanctions — UCF’s attorney fees. UCF has been criticized for using hardball tactics against its own students by various organizations and lawyers.
“It’s one thing to defend your position in court and aggressively defend it, but here we have a situation where a university is not only denying records and access to meetings to the college newspaper but is seeking to sanction them for trying to conduct journalism,” attorney Mark Caramanica told the Student Press Law Center. Caramanica filed a friend of the court brief in support of Knight News for the SPLC and other press-rights groups. 
The court denied UCF’s motion to make Knight News pay its attorney’s fees on Friday.
Even if the appellate ruling stands, it does not overturn a major victory Knight News won at the trial level. The trial court confirmed that UCF broke the law by trying to make Knight News travel off campus to its public relations office to obtain a record that is held on campus in the Greek life office. 
The ruling is important because it prevents UCF from delaying the release of newsworthy records until they are no longer newsworthy with that unlawful tactic. 
Check back for updates and reaction from students on campus.



The Zika virus has made it’s way to Central Florida, and Governor Rick Scott is prompting for prevention kits.
The  virus, which is spread via mosquitoes has been detected in 16 Florida counties, most recently in Osceola county. 
It is uncommon for the disease to result in hospitalization, but there is currently no cure.
Symptoms of Zika, according to the CDC, are: fever, rash, joint pain, and redness of the eyes.
Now that the virus has made its way to Florida, Governor Scott demanded that traps to prevent the mosquitoes be put in place across the state. Scott has also called for 1,000 kits on top of the 500 already in place to test Floridians for Zika virus antibodies.
Prevention for the virus is the same as your average mosquito bite protection strategies: wear longer clothes, stay in air conditioned environments, and wear bug repellent. 
To learn more about the Zika virus, visit the CDC website.



A drug related incident at Mercury 3100 near the University of Central Florida has left two people in custody and two at large, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
The OCSO responded to a “discharge weapon” call a little after midnight on Tuesday to Alafaya Club Drive. The OCSO said that when they arrived there was a large group standing outside who yelled “swat” and ran off. 
After retrieving a search warrant, the OCSO said they found a firearm and marijuana in an apartment at the complex formally known as The Village at Alafaya Club.
Officials say that although a firearm was discovered and residents said they heard a weapon discharged, no victim of a shooting was found.
The incident at Mercury 3100 was drug related. No injuries. 4 people involved, 2 at large and 2 in custody, according to @OrangeCoSheriff
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) February 9, 2016

KnightNews.com was first on scene before building 3273 was taped off. At one point, nine OCSO and three Orange County Fire Rescue vehicles were on scene. OCFR left before OCSO without transporting anyone.
This is a breaking story, check back for more details.



