ORLANDO, Fla. –The No. 6 seed Memphis Tigers are headed to the American Athletic Conference championship game after putting an end to the No. 10 seed Tulane Green Wave’s underdog story on Saturday night.
“There’s been a lot of negativity that we have encountered, and rightfully so in a lot of areas on — based on some of our games that we dropped,” Memphis head coach Josh Pastner said. “So it’s good to see those young men have a good time and enjoy the win and not take it for granted.”
Memphis freshman Dedric Lawson followed up his 22-point game against Tulsa on Friday night with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 5 assists against Tulane. Lawson’s size-speed combination has been a revelation for the Tigers this season and he’s really taken over the team throughout the AAC tournament.
Senior Louis Dabney willed the Green Wave out to a lead early, but the Tigers did not waste their time in erasing that deficit with a 6-0 run. Dabney has been the heart and soul of his team in the first two rounds and his performance is the only thing that kept the game from getting out of hand early on.
The senior was noticeably upset with his college career coming to an end after the miraculous tournament run that Tulane had put together.
“We just really ran out of gas, honestly and that’s the honest truth,” Dabney said. “I just wish I had another year to play with this great coach and these great group of guys and just I’m just sad that it had to go down this way.”
Memphis’ size advantage was paramount in the victory, with Tulane allowing 18 points in the paint and 6 second chance points in the first half alone. The Green Wave’s offense was disjointed and lacked the secondary source of scoring they had all tournament long with Dylan Osetkowski shooting just 33.3 percent in the game. The Tigers had compiled an 11-point advantage heading into halftime as senior Shaq Goodwin led all scorers with 9 points.
“I like to bring everybody into the five-man huddle and just tell them, whatever we’re going to do in this game, whatever we’re going to do, we’re going to do it together,” Goodwin said. “So, with that mindset, we win together, we lose together. We live with it. As long as we’re doing it together.”
With the 11-point deficit at halftime, Tulane found themselves in a similar position during their comeback win against Houston on Friday night, but the cards were just not in their favor this time around.
“We had great practices all the time,” Tulane head coach Ed Conroy said. “We needed those to keep getting better, but this tournament and coming here and so to see their hard work and their belief in something that they hadn’t been through before because so many of them are freshmen, to see their belief pay off and them have the joy that they had, these last couple days, and I even told them just now, the pain that they’re having in the locker room, it just, again, it goes to show you how special March is.”
On Friday night, Pastner credited his team’s dominant win over No. 3 seed Tulsa to his teams passing performance as they registered 13 assists. The Tigers carried their team-basketball philosophy over to the Saturday night’s game and it paid dividends as they dished out 17 assists.
“We know we’re going to have to play a great game if we want to have an opportunity to beat [UConn], so we’re going to have to play great,” Pastner said. “But we’re excited about the challenge, and it should be a high level game with against two high level teams tomorrow afternoon.”
Memphis will take on the UConn Huskies in the championship game of the American Athletic Conference tournament on Sunday at the Amway Center. Tip off is scheduled for 3:15 p.m.



ORLANDO, Fla. – Coming off the heels of their quadruple-overtime victory, the No. 5 seed UConn Huskies dispatched the top-seeded Temple Owls on Saturday afternoon to advance to the American Athletic Conference Championship game.
“Our coach of the year in this conference, Fran Dunphy, I got so much respect for him, the job he did with that team,” UConn head coach Kevin Ollie said. “They had different guys step up every night and he always had those guys fighting. So, it’s a great win for University of Connecticut. We’re going to soak this one up and then we’re going to be ready for the winner of Memphis and Tulane.”
UConn sophomore Daniel Hamilton seemed determined to prove that his career-high performance on Friday against the Cincinnati Bearcats was no fluke. The swingman tallied an impressive 19 points, 11 rebounds and 2 assists to help put the Huskies in the championship game.
“We wanted to come out here and build off [the Cincinnati game]and then come out with more intensity, like we did, and just continue to keep building from that, especially going into the tournament,” Hamilton said.
After playing limited minutes against USF due to foul trouble, sophomore Obi Enechionyia made his presence known early on with back-to-back makes to push Temple out to an early lead. However, Enechionyia faltered from that point on and did not make another shot from the field for the rest of the game.
“They ran him off the line a little bit, and he needed to adjust his game probably a little bit more than he did,” Temple head coach Fran Dunphy said. “But he’s a pretty big weapon for us. It just wasn’t happening for him tonight.”
Midway through the first half, Temple’s shots stopped falling and the Huskies began to capitalize on their misgivings. UConn went on a 24-5 run over an eight minute span while Temple went 2-for-14 from the field during their cold spell.
UConn’s dominant stretch afforded them a cushy 11-point lead going into halftime as they shot a dangerous 57.1 percent from beyond the arc.
“I think we stayed more mentally tough, got stops when we needed to, got scores when we needed to,” UConn forward Shonn Miller said. “We stayed together, came out with a lot of energy and got the win.”
Temple entered the second half with a different offensive identity as they began to attack the Huskies on the inside. The Owls first four baskets out of halftime came inside the paint with Jaylen Bond beginning to find his groove.
Temple coach Fran Dunphy had already talked about the progress that the redshirt senior Bond had made this year after his dominant showing against the No. 9 seed USF Bulls. Bond backed up Dunphy’s words on Friday night with 17 points and 10 rebounds in his last game as a Temple Owl.
Much to the dismay of the Owls, UConn’s torrid shooting carried over to the second half and made it nearly impossible for Temple to reel them in.
“I think we’re doing a great job moving the basketball and not settling for the contested threes,” Ollie said. “We did that earlier. I think our ball movement — I always talk about getting to the third side and the fourth side, and I think we’re just reversing the ball and then we’re attacking.”
The Owls were able to find a lot of clean looks throughout the game, but their shots just were not able to find the bottom of the net from anywhere outside of the paint. Bond, Enechionyia and Quenton DeCosey, Temple’s three leading scorers, finished the contest going a collective 13-for-39.
UConn will advance to the American Athletic Conference tournament championship game where they will take on the winner of the Memphis/Tulane game. UConn beat Memphis in both AAC contests and also topped Tulane in their only meeting of the season.



Just because students are on break doesn’t mean that crime is…
The University of Central Florida Police Department responded to a strong arm robbery at Knights Circle early Saturday morning at around 3:20 a.m., according to UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin.
“[The victim] was pushed and punched by four men outside of his apartment complex. He said they stole his cell phone and drove away in a black four door sedan. The victim indicated last night that he did not wish to prosecute,” Gilmartin said.
UCFPD tweeted that the officers worked until 3:20 a.m. on the case and are continuing to do so. The tweet also said the victim was ok.
No weapons were seen by UCFPD, Campus Awareness stated.
UCFPD asks anyone with any information to please contact them at 407-823-5555.
This is a breaking story. Check back for more details.



