The Orange County Police need your help.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is searching for a suspect who is believed to have shoplifted merchandise from the Target store located at 365 N Alafaya Trail, Orlando, Florida.
The event took place on October 24th, and police have identified the suspect as a black male.
“The suspect was described as approximately 6 feet tall, with a short afro, beard, and medium completion,” read a flyer tweeted by the OCSO, “He was last seen wearing white pants, gray sneakers, a brown vest, light blue polo shirt, and brown cap.”
Police say the suspect became violent after he was approached by store security, and after striking a staff member, fled in a U-Hual rental pickup with an Arizona tag. 
Police are asking for help identifying the suspect. Any citizen with information about the suspect or surrounding the event is encouraged to contact the Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS. 
Stay tuned to Knight news for continued updates.



On November 15, Stagger Inn UCF will turn into an electronic winter wonderland as Alpha Tau Omega’s Rock the Wreath event takes over the venue.
This is the 13th annual Rock the Wreath event, which raises both monetary and food pantry donations for The Children’s Miracle Network, Feeding Children Everywhere, and Knight’s Pantry. This year the gentlemen of ATO have set their goal to raise $35,000 to add on to the over $100,000 raised by the fraternity over the past thirteen years.

This year, the event will feature world renowned DJ, Sam Feldt, along with local DJ’s, Glazer, Blix, Xpress, Dirty Ders, and Justin Wilde.
Rock the Wreath has always been held at the ATO house and has been exclusive to UCF students. This year, however, Chapter President Bryan Dickey wanted to expand the opportunity to make a difference by taking the event to a public venue, and allowing anyone to attend.
“We moved the event to a public location to encourage all students and the general public to attend the event,” Dickey said. “Getting the entire community involved is important to bring awareness to the charities we are supporting.”
Tickets for the event are $15, and can be purchased from a brother of ATO, or online  here. People can still purchase tickets at the door when they open at 7 p.m., however, tickets are expected to sell out quickly, so pre-purchasing them is the best way to ensure entry.
The chapter has already collected over 3,300 items for Knight’s Pantry, and is still taking monetary donations through a donation drive on member planet. Any physical donations such as canned foods and toiletries can be dropped off at the house located at 4419 Greek Ct. 
The event begins at Stagger Inn at 7 p.m., and the party will continue until 2 a.m. 
Come out and experience UCF’s largest philanthropy concert, all while making a difference here in Central Florida.



