Darth Vader stepped away from the dark side to deliver a life-changing gift to 9-year-old Alvin Garcia Flores.
The Univesity of Central Florida’s Limbitless Solutions made a bionic arm for Flores, who was born without a right arm. Flores had placed the arm on his Christmas list and his wish came true on Thursday.
The Christmas gift was delivered by Darth Vader in front of Flores’ loved ones at Gateway Elementary in Omaha, Neb.
“The team of UCF students constructed the bionic arm and shipped it to Omaha right before Christmas as part of its 12 Arms for Christmas campaign. Darth Vader – a costumed volunteer from the local 501st Legion – was scheduled to make a Christmas Eve delivery at the family’s home. But the family had to unexpectedly travel right before Christmas so the delivery was rescheduled for Jan. 14.,” a release stated.
The Limbitless team was not able to travel to Nebraska. Instead, Limbitless reached out to the 501st Legion, which prides itself in spreading the joy of Star Wars, to coordinate the delivery.
“One of the biggest outlets we utilize is charity work and giving back to the community,” John Jaeckel, a member of the 501st, said in the release. “When we were asked to help present this gift to Alvin there was no hesitation in accepting as it falls directly in line with one of the primary missions of our organization. One of the tag lines we use to promote our organization is ‘Bad Guys Doing Good’ and we are honored when organizations and groups contact us and ask us to be a part of something amazing.”
Among special assembly guests were Vader, some Stormtroopers and other characters from the famous franchise.
The initiative for Flores’ arm started last year when Principal Terry Burton saw a video of Limbitless Solutions.
“I hope that the arm gives Alvin more self-confidence at school around his peers,” Burton said in the release.
Limbitless also gifted twelve other arms to children in Florida, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Texas, Virginia and Washington.
Photo Credit: UCF Today



The University of Central Florida’s annual ‘Universal Knights’ will arrive Sunday, April 17th, in anticipation for the UCF-exclusive theme park experience.
Ticket distribution and locations, along with ‘more information’ on the event, will be released soon, according to the UCF Student Government Association.
An event wristband and student ticket grants admission to the park, where courtesy shuttles will run during the day to Universal Orlando Resort. Students can expect a 3 p.m. to 2 a.m. shuttle service as well as the potential for free parking to those interested in driving to the event.
Check back with Knight News as additional information is released on Universal Knights.



