Tuesday, June 21st, Randy Dossey and his girlfriend settled into their sixth week living at University House, one mile from UCF’s main campus.
It would be the same week that the key to the car, a Dodge Charger, went missing, with Dossey asking his family for a spare in the meantime. And it would be Tuesday night he would sit in his car for the last time, when at late the car would be stolen.
Inside were mementos of the time he spent with his family and girlfriend, as well as the sacrifice made by Dossey and his mother to make owning a car a reality. Dossey pens an open letter to the thief to hopefully lead to the return of the car in addition to the items inside:
“If you were involved in stealing the gray Dodge Charger at University House on Tuesday night, or if you know the person who did, please keep reading. If you had a guest on the 5th floor on Saturday, please give this to them. Otherwise, disregard, and I hope you have a good day.
To whomever was involved in the theft of my car,
My girlfriend and I have lived at University House for a little over 6 weeks. We came here from the Marquee apartments because we wanted to feel safe. We wanted to have our own space and make a home together. On Saturday night you, or perhaps someone you know, took my keys out of our apartment door while we were moving stuff in. We had just bought nightstands and a doormat to finish off our new home. When we came outside, my keys were gone. Believing this apartment complex to be safe, our neighbors honest, we figured we had simply lost them. We searched for days and found nothing, but that was because you had them. On Tuesday night I returned home from work, and having gotten the spare key to my car from my family, I sat in my car one last time. Shortly after that, you or someone you know got into my car, and drove it away. We came outside a little later, and experienced a feeling of loss like someone had died. And it’s not because of the metal, the plastic, the rubber that made up that car, it’s because of what it meant to me, as well as us as a couple. Perhaps you don’t care, but I believe that you should know what you took.
My car was expensive, but I did not get it because I had parents who spoiled me and got it on a lark. I earned it. I have worked full time jobs throughout college to afford that car. I have missed classes, exams, dates, and family commitments to earn the money to put myself through school and make my payments. Payments towards a loan for a car that I no longer have, because you took it.
But money is material, and material objects can be replaced. What cannot be replaced are the other things you took. The briefcase my mother gave me my final year of high school, one which I took all over the country so that I would have something from her with me. The key chain which one of my best friends gave to me before they moved. The first CD my girlfriend ever gave me. These things may not be valuable to you, or the pawnshop you may take them to, but for me, and the woman I want to marry, they were mementos of our time together. And now they’re gone.
Look around you, wherever you are, and look at the things which you value but aren’t worth much to someone else. Now imagine that someone took them, not out of spite or maliciousness, but simply because they didn’t care enough to think before they acted. You are that person. 
Now it’s up to us to deal with what you did. My mother has to know that the briefcase she saved money for has most likely been thrown away or pawned for next to nothing. My girlfriend and I have to deal with losing the location of many of our most important moments as a couple. If you have ever had something taken from you, if you have any understanding what you have done, or even a single human bone in your body, return my car, return these items. Do it anonymously, ditch the car and point me in the right direction via an e-mail from a dummy account or a note in our door. Whatever you want to do. I care far more about what you have taken than about seeing anything happen to you. If you will not, know that I will be pushing the police investigation, which has already begun, until I have my car and my belongings back.
It’s your choice. Ignore what you’ve done and the police will knock on your door one day. For your sake, the sake of your family and mine, make the right one and end this now.”

The vehicle is a grey Dodge Charger with license plate 684XJQ.



Over 50,000 people sporting rainbow-colored attire and holding handmade signs that read “Love Wins” and “One Love, Orlando Strong” gathered at Lake Eola on Sunday, June 19th. Every inch of the winding sidewalks of the downtown Orlando park was illuminated with candles and covered with flowers as mourners came to remember the 49 lives that were taken at the Pulse nightclub shooting.  
Moments before the vigil was scheduled to begin, a rainbow, a symbol of LGBTQ pride, appeared in the sky and was met with cheers from the crowd. 
The 90-minute program was hosted by Channel 9’s Nancy Alvarez and Jorge Estevez. Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer, Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs, Orlando City Commissioner Patty Sheehan, and several others shared their messages. 
A chant rang out from the mouths of those attending the vigil, “Peace, Love, Pulse”, announcing to the world the new heartbeat of The City Beautiful. 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 



