Career Fairs are always a prominent event within the walls of the Student Union. Students of all majors looking to get their foot in the door network themselves with multiple companies and organizations, resumes in hand.
The second annual Green Jobs Fair is no exception as numerous University of Central Florida students came out to the Key West Ballroom on March 17.
Led by student organizations Intellectual Decisions on Environmental Awareness Solutions (IDEAS) and National Society of Collegiate Scholars (NSCS), Green Jobs Fair took place 10 a.m.-2 p.m. and hosted 19 organizations and companies.
Organizations and Companies in attendance included:
UCF civil engineering student Samuel Sickels, president of IDEAS, created this career fair centered on environmental sustainability with the help student Audric Darian. According to Sickels, Green Jobs Fair is a multidisciplinary event that connects students with companies in the field that are working toward sustainability whether it’s in conservation, energy, environmental consulting and testing, and cleanup.
“I come in contact with a lot of students who have the passion for sustainability but it’s hard to know where to go,” Sickels said. “We want to show them that there are plenty of opportunities and that the youth want to work for a cleaner and more ecological world. We’re just trying to bring awareness to this sustainability movement.”
Students of all majors participated in the fair including environmental studies student Alicia Norman. According to Norman, she wished more representatives were present as the green industry is growing bigger and receiving more government money.
“I want to get something in my field while I’m still in school,” Norman said. “I’m really into conservation and specifically Florida wetlands so I figured since it’s local people coming out they’d be able to get me into that.”
Body of Animal Rights Campaign (BARC) was in attendance at the Green Jobs Fair looking to network with students and fill a job opening. BARC, UCF’s only animal rights organization, promoted educating students on the behind the scenes of factory farming.
Zaria Menning, Alumni sponsor for BARC, was adamant about spreading BARC’s cause and finding a student to meet their job position needs.
“I can make a difference and that’s why I love telling students about this,” Menning said. “I would recommend Cowspiracy, BARC, and going on Pinterest and looking for easy vegan recipes as baby steps to become more aware of the facts.”
Aside from UCF, more and more colleges are creating their own versions of a Green Jobs Fair and implementing them within the coming years, according to Sickels.
“We’re looking to grow the fair as a Central Florida Green Jobs Fair,” Sickels said. “This year USF is hosting their first one. Next year Valencia and Seminole State are thinking about doing one. We would like to show the community there are opportunities to work sustainably everywhere.”



