A judge allowed UCF to continue with its unprecedented secret election hearings, but did not yet decide whether UCF’s closure is legal — and whether the results of the secret hearings will stand.
Knight News filed an emergency motion to the Orange County Circuit Court to make Sen. Jacob Milich’s campaign violation hearings open to the public. 
After listening to attorneys from both sides via teleconference, Chief Judge Frederick Lauten denied the emergency motion, temporarily allowing Sen. Jacob Milich’s election hearings to remain secret, at least for now.
The Judge explained the difficulty of getting an “emergency” motion approved, and after his ruling, presented an outline for Knight News to follow to have UCF’s unprecedented closure of the hearings possibly overturned during Knight News’s full trial on the merits.
However, perhaps the most notable thing said today did not come from Judge Lauten, but instead from UCF’s GrayRobinson defense attorney Rick Mitchell. Mitchell appeared to give Judge Lauten extremely questionable information, that perhaps had a major impact on the ruling of the hearing.
“Judge Doherty in a prior case ruled that these election violation affidavits are FERPA protected education records, that she ruled at a hearing at which these violation affidavits were discussed … was properly closed pursuant to Florida Statutes and FERPA,” Mitchell told Chief Judge Lauten.
Judge Doherty’s order says nothing about closing election hearings — it only states UCF is allowed to apply the FERPA record exemption.However, Mitchell told the 5th District Court of Appeal — on the same exact day — that SGA hearings were not at issue in the previous Knight News case.
Knight News “also makes statements regarding ‘student government proceedings’ being conducted in the sunshine. General ‘student government proceedings’ were neither an issue on appeal nor an issue raised in the pleadings and tried below,” Mitchell wrote in his response to Knight News’s motion for rehearing and certification to the Florida Supreme Court.
Knights News asked Mitchell about his remarks during the hearing in an email following the proceeding, asking him to explain whether he misspoke. Knight News also asked if in fact Judge Doherty did rule the election commission to be closed, why they were set to be open until Milich raised the issue of FERPA.
“We want to give you a chance to address why you told Chief Judge Lauten that Judge Doherty ruled SG proceedings were closed by FERPA when you told the 5th DCA SG proceedings were not at issue,” Knight News Digital News Director Derek Lowe wrote in an email to Mitchell.
Mitchell refused to comment.

Knight News checked Judge Doherty’s ruling regarding the closure of hearings and confirmed it came long after the election record issue was decided — and that it applied to matters regarding the university’s administrative conduct board for fraternity hazing. This is a totally separate board where the university has the final say — unlike the election commission of Student Government.
“Knight News sincerely appreciates how Chief Judge Lauten recognized this was an emergency and cleared time on his busy schedule to let the UCF public be heard, even though the bar for emergency temporary relief is so high,” according to a Knight News statement. “We respect and understand his ruling and now know what steps the court needs us to take to stop UCF secrecy at our full trial.”



Bill Nye, the Science Guy made a stop at UCF’s Student Union’s Key West Ballroom, on Tuesday, March 15th attracting a large crowd of fans. Attendees were delighted to hear from the enthusiastic and quirky science educator as he spoke about his family’s past, passion for science and the threat of global climate change. Nye ended his appearance with a message to those who attended about the importance of climate change, “Although we are part of the cause, we can be a part of the solution. We can be the next great generation and dare I say it… CHANGE THE WORLD!” 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 






You The University of Central Florida has two other candidates for this year’s Student Government Association election; their names are Anthony Safadi and Ali Nassereddin.
Their slogan, “Make UCF Great Again.” Safadi says it starts with taking no salary as UCF president.
“We have to make UCF Great Again. We don’t have a choice. UCF is terrible; students are being taken advantage of by the administration just look at parking services. Last year alone they made a million dollars off of students,” candidate Safadi said.
Prior to running for Student Government Anthony Safadi was a Justice in SGA and was in the Senate Leadership council. He quit SGA because he says the system is designed to “screw students.” Both Safadi and Nassereddin are the only STEM majors running for Student Government President and Vice President. Safadi and Ali are Biomedical Science majors that plan on attending Medical school in the near future. Before they leave UCF they want to help their fellow knights.
The Safadi Nassereddin ticket is entirely self-funding; they have no one campaigning for them other then themselves. In their own words, “ We can’t be bought”.
“We don’t owe anyone any favors. Everyone else has people working for them and helping them get elected. We do not. No one works for free,“ Safadi said.
The Safadi Nassereddin ticket want students to feel included in Student Government and want complete transparency.
“I want students to feel part of SGA, that is why when I am elected I will be taking the door off of my office, that way students will be able to come and talk to me one on one,” Safadi said.
“They say UCF stands for opportunity; I say it stands for con artist. The administration is conning students to come to this school. Our graduation rates are way below the national average and its wrong,” said Safadi.
His main proposed plan to fix UCF is by reducing admission rates into UCF.
“UCF is going to reduce admissions, we just don’t have a choice. Students are being taken advantage of and we need to put an end to it. Lines at advisors are too long and if you get to speak with an advisor its usually an undergrad student who doesn’t know what’s going on,” Safadi commented.
We are currently accepting too many transfer students and we cannot support it. We cannot let anyone else in until UCF is able to take care of the students it already has. That is why I have proposed we build a wall to stop more transfer students from coming to UCF,” Safadi continued.
Other key issues for the Safadi campaign are reforming Student Government such as putting an end to what he calls “Greek Privilege” in SGA.
“I love Greek life, many of my best friends are in Greek life, but SGA at UCF is mostly Greek life while only a small percentage of UCF is Greek. As President being Greek will not get you into SGA. I propose an IQ test and interviews with every candidate will be a much better way to fill vacancies fairly.” Safadi said.
Along with ending “Greek Privilege” within SGA President Safadi also plans to instill term limits on all SGA Senators and officials.
“We have senators who have been in office 2 or 3 years. I will be putting an end to this with one-year term limits. The same people are hogging all the positions within SGA and no one else can build their resumes.” Safadi continued.
If you wish to find out more about candidate Safadi and his positions such as the of dissolving parking services, the end of the Aramark deal in the union and the elimination of faculty members who do not do their jobs like his page on Facebook “Make UCF Great Again.”



