Students and SGA Senators had plenty to say about the proposed Board of Trustees amendment which would change the role of SGA from a democratically-elected governing authority to what students fear could become a puppet for the Board of Trustees.
Meanwhile, SGA President and Board Trustee Chris Clemente refused to participate in an on-camera interview the day before the amendment was to be voted on, insisting that our reporter discuss his personal opinion on the proposal instead.
Among the matters Knight News had intended to discuss with Clemente was an email obtained via public records request. The correspondence was between Kerry Welch, Associate Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment Services and Youndy Cook, Deputy General Counsel. In the email, Welch tells Cook the amendment “looks good, my only concern is being sure Chris is on board prior to the vote. Will we work on that?”
This email seems to indicate that there may have been an effort within UCF’s administration to sway Clemente’s opinion in their favor.
Click HERE to see the full amendment on pgs. 170-176
The proposed amendment includes language that would change the Senate’s role in dictating how the $18.6 million Activity and Service Fee budget will be spent, making the Board of Trustees the ultimate deciding authority with the budget instead of the Senate.
Clemente publicly commented on “the elephant in the room” for the first time during last week’s Senate meeting, although he claimed he did not know how he would vote.
“As always, I will have the best interest in mind for this university and its student body,” Clemente stated before encouraging Senators who had questions or concerns about the amendment to reach out to him.
Jimmy Briggs, a former Senator, took an opportunity to speak to the Senate during an open forum at the meeting. Briggs primarily focused on the potential impact the amendment would have on the Senate’s duty to delegate the Activity and Service Fee budget.
At best, Briggs stated, senators could “become nothing more than a filter to do pencil-pushing busywork with the Activity and Service Fee Office.”
UCF student and former SGA Election Supervisor Nicklas Bajema directed some of his remarks toward high-ranking student officials.
 



The mother of a University of Central Florida student, Chris Leinonen, will be speaking on the stage of the Democratic National Convention on Wednesday night.
A call for gun safety will be made by Christine Leinonen with Pulse survivor Brandon Wolf.
Christopher completed a bachelor’s and master’s degree in Psychology, both at UCF, and earned work as a licensed mental heath counselor, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Wolf quickly became a face of the survivors of the Pulse shooting, speaking on the situation in the hours and week following the shooting.
Christine Leinonen will speak at 8 p.m. on Wednesday at the Wells Fargo Center.



Former President Bill Clinton reminded us all of how he became elected president over twenty years ago.
The roll call vote that named Hillary Clinton the official democratic nominee took place on Wednesday, the second day of the DNC.
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders concluded the proceeding by moving to suspend the convention and officially name Hillary as the Democratic nominee.
Following the delegate vote, the 42nd President of the United States gave a heartwarming speech describing how he met his wife to conclude the second night of the DNC.
The former Arkansas governor described to the audience their time in college, and included several other heartwarming stories from their years together.
He also touted Hillary’s impressive political track record, and labeled her a “change maker.”
To conclude his speech Clinton threw several jabs toward Donald Trump and the Republican party and exited the stage to immense cheers from the crowd.
President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden are scheduled to speak during day three of the DNC. Stay tuned to Knight News for continued DNC coverage.



