ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF made its first strides towards recovery last weekend with a statement 38-0 victory over South Carolina State, but is entering a completely new world of competition in only their second week as they travel to challenge No. 5 Michigan.
“We don’t take those games lightly, a win is a win,” assured Coach Scott Frost this week. “But it’s going to be a whole different level of speed now. A whole different level of size on the other side and again, I’m not as worried about outcome last Saturday, next Saturday, this Saturday as I am seeing steady improvement from our team. If we can do that we’ll be on the right side of the scoreboard plenty of times this year if we can keep on the trajectory we’re going.”
For a program still cementing a new identity, consistent progress may be the best case scenario against Jim Harbaugh’s Wolverines. The powerhouse program completely dominated in the first week of college football, burying Hawaii 63-3 even with a new quarterback at the helm. Harbaugh is known for his intensity, transferring many of his eccentricities directly to his players’ psyche.
“One thing you know about a Jim Harbaugh coached team is that they’re going to play hard. They’re going to be disciplined and they’re going to play hard. He’s the perpetual foot on the gas pedal. I don’t think he lets his players get away with much other than exactly what he expects and that’s an attribute of a good coach,” said Frost about his former Pac-12 rival.
There will be no learning curve if the Knights are to pull off what would surely be the biggest upset in school history. To compete with Michigan every cog in the machine must shift perfectly into gear.
“I don’t think we’ll be able to line up and come off the ball and knock them back five yards every play,” admitted Frost. “You can’t run an average route and expect to get open. Execution has to be perfect to move the ball against a team like that. Defensively with all of the things that they give you, you have to be perfect on your assignment.”
With so much emphasis on precision execution, it is important to remember that in this scenario, UCF coaches are less worried about the scoreboard and more concerned with seeing the progress they need; concerned with the importance of the process. They’re looking for continued confidence in the players, the system and ultimately in themselves.
“I want our guys to be confident, and regardless of the score at the end of the game we’re going to come out of this game a better team,” insisted Coach Frost. “I don’t want our kids afraid to play anybody. I think our guys are excited to go up there and look that challenge in the face and take swings at ‘em.”



