“When worker’s rights are under attack, what do we do? Rise up, fight back!”
This chant was repeated by student activists three times outside of Millican Hall to protest the so-called “Aramark takeover” of the Student Union.
The protest, which was organized by the Student Labor Action Project, was attended by 13 people, many of whom were representatives of other on-campus political organizations like the College Democrats and the National Organization for Women.
Each protester was given a sign to hold as they walked from the free speech lawn by the library to the Reflection Pond, where they hung a banner bearing the words “#HoldAramarkAccountable” in red and black letters.
One sign, held by SLAP member Nicole McLaren, had the hashtag as well as the words, “To workers who deserve better.”
Direct actions such as today’s protest are in response to stipulations in Aramark’s contract renewal with UCF, where they will have exclusive control over the Student Union, except for two local businesses, which has many people concerned over what that means for current businesses operating within the building and how workers will be affected. SLAP has been the organization spearheading the campaign against it.
“I believe in free enterprise, not oligopoly,” Cynthia Benson, a political science professor, said of the agreement as protesters handed her campaign literature. “It’s nice to see students give a damn about something.”
Following the distribution of fliers, some protesters went to Vice President Bill Merck’s office on the third floor of Millican Hall to deliver a letter “thanking” him for allowing Aramark to control the Union. Merck is one of many officials overseeing the deal.
“UCF is great when you go behind student’s backs and kick out local businesses,” said one letter that was shared with Knight News.
Knight News has reached out to Merck’s office, but assistants in his office did not have any information as to his reaction to the card nor could they respond to the extent of Merck’s involvement with the Aramark deal.
Part of the anti-monopoly efforts includes a minimum wage increase to $15 an hour. That demand happens to tie into an upcoming rally that will be hosted on Wednesday by several progressive student organizations at the Union’s patio.
But what does “holding Aramark accountable” mean?
“It means giving workers living wages,” NOW secretary Hayley Kranz said. The wages being earned now is “not enough for school and it isn’t enough sometimes to eat. There’s only so much financial aid and sometimes that doesn’t cover everything either.”
Among SLAP’s demands to the university in its recent dealings with Aramark is to form a primarily student-run committee that would oversee the implementation of any contractual obligations. The purpose, so said the group’s outreach director Nicole Hamm, would be to “hold Aramark accountable to past and current mistreatment of workers now that they control the Student Union.”
While Aramark would take control over what restaurants will be operating within the Union, the contract proposal would allow two local businesses to sub-let in the building, but still under the control of the corporation. While this helps mitigate some concerns by businesses like Wackadoo’s and Topper’s, which are owned by UCF alumni, it is not enough for people like Josaphat Alvarez, who is NOW’s director of communications.
“When you monopolize, you put corporations over local businesses,” they said. “They aren’t prioritizing living wages over renovating the Union.”
NOW, which represents women as well as transgender and gender neutral students on campus, feel that the Aramark takeover as it pertains to wages is an issue worth addressing. As treasurer Killian Muollo pointed out, women and trans people are typically paid less than cisgender white men. The gap is worse when taking into account race and sexual orientation.
Aramark employs 499 people at UCF, 300 of whom are students, according to a university spokesperson. 117 workers are employed full-time, with the remaining working part-time. The company does not currently have seasonal workers on its payroll.
Currently, the extent of the deal with UCF and Aramark is unknown beyond the proposal documents already available for public viewing. A contract will not be available for public viewing until this summer.



“I know the rules very well, but I know it’s stacked against me by the establishment,” Presidential nominee Donald Trump said at a special CNN Town Hall event in New York.
Trump won the popular vote in Louisiana with 41.4% of the electorate while competitor Ted Cruz only received 37.8% of the electorate.
“I end up winning Louisiana and then when everything is done I find out I get less delegates than this guy that got his a– kicked, OK? Give me a break. Really disgust[s] me. So it’s a very sick system,” Trump said at one of his rallies.
What happened in Louisiana is not an isolated incident; Trump was swept in Colorado where Ted Cruz wound up winning all 34 delegates.
Trump turned to twitter to voice his distain, “I win a state in votes and then get non-representative delegates because they are offered all sorts of goodies by Cruz campaign. Bad system!” Trump tweeted Sunday.
Trump later tweeted, “The people of Colorado had their vote taken away from them by the phony politicians. Biggest story in politics. This will not be allowed!”
Ted Cruz responded to Trumps tweets and comments in Irvine California saying, “Donald has been yelling and screaming. A lot of whining. I’m sure some cursing. And some late-night fevered tweeting.”
Currently Donald Trump leads the Republican presidential field with 743 delegates. His competition Ted Cruz and John Kasich respectively have 545 and 143 delegates leaving 854 delegates still up for grabs, according to the Associated Press.
In order to win the Republican presidential nomination a candidate must accumulate 1237 delegates. If none of the candidates reach this number by the time of the convention, many delegates will become unbound and be able to vote how they see fit.
The next primary is New York on April 19 where 95 delegates will be awarded to the Republican Party.
Knight News is planning on attending the Republican National Convention this July. Be sure to check back with Knight News for continued coverage.



On Monday April 11, Campus Activates Board (CAB) put on a political debate between the College Democrats member Cristòbal Reyes, College Republicans member Mathew Parks, and the Young Americans for Liberties member Layne Garrett.
“We (CAB) put on this event because there’s often the accusation that millennial and the younger generation do not care about politics and election year issues. We came here tonight to prove that is certainly not the truth,” Speaker Director of CAB Stanley Swindling said.
The debate was filled with popular topics of today from legalization of marijuana to immigration reform.
During the Debate the three speakers were able to find some common ground on a plethora of topics such as the war on drugs, prison reform, and reducing military spending. Each speaker agreed that these areas need change; they just differed on how to go about it and to what extent.
However with every agreement there were plenty of differences. From gun control to climate change each speaker made clear distinctions of their opinions and stood up for their beliefs.
“Even though their were lots of disagreements, it always makes me happy to see students getting involved and coming together to discuss the important issues that are going on,” President of the College Democrats Nikki Mariutto said.
“I’d rather have a debate like this over people sitting around saying they don’t care about politics,” Mariutto continued.
Speaker Director Swindling echoed Mariutto saying, “We certainly expected some disagreements and partisanship. But at the end of the day the take away is these people of differing beliefs and values were able to come together civilly and respectively.”
After the debate Knights for Hillary President Jesse Rubens weighed in on the event and said, “While it is clear that none of the three speakers were remotely knowledgeable on the issues of guns and Israel, I found the form illuminating. It was a pleasure to hear the voices and ideas of my fellow students discussing the issues voters care about.”
Campus Activities Board will be putting on more political forums revolving around the issues students care about. At 7 p.m. on April 20, CAB will be putting on a marijuana legalization forum.
Be sure to check back with Knight News for coverage on future CAB events.




Orlando City Lions faced the New England Revolution at the Orlando Citrus Bowl on Sunday, April 17, 2016. Two controversial plays gifted each team a goal during second half stoppage time resulting in a 2-2 draw. Leaving both Orlando City players and fans with a bitter taste in their mouth. 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



A 21-year-old man is in custody after stabbing two people at a hotel behind Knight Library, leaving them seriously injured, WESH 2 News reports.
According to WESH, police responded to the Crestwood Suites on University Boulevard behind Knights Library and found two people stabbed in what police say may be a domestic violence incident.
Police say none of the people involved were students, according to WESH.



