Last night, Student Government Association President Cait Zona and Vice President Jarell Jones symbolically passed the gavel – along with the responsibilities of leading a student government – to Chris Clemente and Rachel Altfield.
The ceremony began with remarks from Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment Services. Dr. Ehasz called Zona a “true leader” and applauded her administration for several achievements during the term, including pushing for the downtown campus, Student Union expansion and passage of Chloe’s Law.
UCF President Dr. John Hitt used his speaking opportunity to commend all students who participated in SGA, and also gave some advice to President-elect Clemente and Vice President-elect Altfield.
“Chris and Rachel, you are assuming a great responsibility,” Hitt said. “In the coming year, your leadership will help to shape the future of the second-largest university in our nation. Your’s is an awesome obligation, but it can garner great rewards when it is pursued with the best interests of your fellow students at heart.”
The passing of the gavel only marked a ceremonial transfer of power within SGA. Clemente and Altfield officially take their positions after they are sworn in on May 4. The swearing-in ceremony takes place at 10 a.m. in the SGA office and is open to the public.
 



The Venue at the University of Central Florida was bursting out the seams with spirit for Alpha Delta Pi’s annual Cheers for Charity event
The competition among Greek life raised money for the Ronald McDonald House.
Kappa Sigma took home overall winner of the event. 
For sorority dance, Zeta Tau Alpha took third place, Kappa Delta took second place and Delta Delta Delta took first.
For fraternity dance, Sigma Nu took third place, Phi Delta Theta took second place and Zeta Beta Tau took first. 
Knight News was there to capture videos of all the chants, cheers and stunts.
In order of appearance:
Alpha Delta Pi | Sigma Pi | Delta Sigma Phi | Kappa Kappa Gamma
Phi Delta Theta | Zeta Tau Alpha | Kappa Sigma | Delta Delta Delta
Zeta Beta Tau | Kappa Delta | Sigma Nu | Rukus



