Kevin Louidor, a 3rd-year student at the University of Central Florida, is on the final stretch of achieving his dreams, and one closer to encouraging others to follow theirs.

From the time Louidor was in high school, the health services administration major made clear his plans to become the first in his family to go to college. Both of his parents came from the Caribbean island of Haiti, just south of Florida, with little-to-none formal education, inspiring the student to set forth his dream of running a US top-rated hospital as a CEO.
To get there, Kevin would have to start small.
Joining active organizations on campus would give him a base, and leading by example would set the mark.
“Both my parents came from the small island of Haiti with little education making me the first ever in my family to go to college. When arriving on campus I refused to let myself be just a number. I wanted to make an impact not only for myself but on the world,” Louidor said.
“I quickly got involved on campus to make my voice heard by joining Organizations such as the Caribbean student association, Campus activity Board, Alpha Kappa Psi, and even becoming the chartering member of Progressive Black Men on campus.”
Beyond running for Homecoming Court, the student’s primary goal remains altruistic – inspiring other students to lead, no matter their circumstance.
“Every day I wake up, I want to change a student’s life to let them believe there is hope in making an impact on such a large university, and to face your fears and get involved for not only minority students, but every student on campus that you can achieve your dreams if you believe in your dreams.
Kevin Louidor reached out to us via email to spread his story. UCF Homecoming King and Queen contenders may be featured as well by emailing news@knightnews.com for an interview.
Vote by logging on to My.UCF.edu.
Transcript:
Introduction:
Hello, my name is Kevin Louidor and I’m a junior at UCF majoring in Health Services Administration and minoring in Marketing. I’m from Miami, Florida and have future aspirations of becoming the CEO of a hospital.
How have your parents been a motivating factor for you in going to college?
Both of my parents came from Haiti not too long ago. To see them come to America with no education is very inspiring for me to be the first in my family to be the first to attend a university. I see this as an opportunity to become more than just a number and to make an impact on the campus.
Knowing these things, how has this motivated you into leading students into achieving their goals?
Knowing all of this, I want to let the world know, I want to let all of the students know that you can come to a large university and become more than just a number, more than just another student walking around. You have to face your fears and go out, and reach out, and get involved on campus because there are so many people willing to take you in that are willing to learn about you. Use that to step out of your comfort zone and get to know everybody.
Why do you, personally, have the goal of running for Homecoming King at the University of Central Florida?
I have this goal because I want to show the world that it’s possible – it’s true. Me, personally, I came here with the mindset of ‘Man, I’m just going to be another student here on this campus.’ But, I went outside of my comfort zone – I reached out – so I just want to let the world know that it’s possible for anybody to come on this campus and do whatever they dream to do, achieve however they want to achieve, to go out and reach for it.



ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF (1-1) is hosting the Maryland Terrapins (2-0) saturday night in the first ever meeting between the two programs. Continue to check back for live quarterly updates in the Knights’ second home game this season.
Maryland has won the toss and elected to defer the second half, UCF back to receive.
First Quarter:
McKenzie Milton came out and began setting a solid pace, moving the chains early. On the first set of fresh downs, however, the freshman quarterback fumbled away a hand-off and Maryland gained possession at mid-field.
The Knights’ defense took over with authority and saved the potential momentum shifter, stopping the Terps with a three-and-out.
Neither team was able to gain serious ground in the next two possessions, though it was the speed of UCF defenders to the ball that stood out immediately, as did Milton’s 4-4 start finding his receivers. His first incompletion set up a UCF first down, one followed by a sneaky fake punt for a first down.
It was an effort that didn’t lead to points, but more yardage and great field position for the defense.
UCF’s first big break came with 2:13 left in the first quarter as Adrian Killins once again raced down the sideline, this time not for a touchdown but for a 43 yard gain. Faced with a short yardage fourth down situation, the Knights kept the drive alive with a nine yard option play on fourth down.
Converting set up a four yard touchdown pass from Milton to Dontravious Wilson, the first of the quarterback’s career and the first receving score of Wilson’s.
UCF 7 Maryland 0
Second Quarter:
Maryland gave the second quarter a lackluster start, punting once again on the first possession. UCF quickly gifted the ball back with aother muffed handoff, and the Terrapins took over in Knights’ territory.
In their first trip to the opposite end of the field, Maryland caught wind of enough momentum to set up a crucial third down conversion and a first-and-goal from the seven yard line. The Terps quickly scored from seven yards out.
UCF 7 Maryland 7
Tre Quan Smith and Milton connected quickly for an athletic and exciting 24 yard play down the sideline, rolling momentum heavily for the Knights, when a tipped pass was immediately intercepted to end the drive.
Down to the wire with time running out on the half, Maryland converted a couple of big plays to position themselves in striking range. The Terrapins knocked a 33 yard field goal with time expiring.
UCF 7 Maryland 10
Third Quarter:
A long, rumbling kick return gave Maryland excellent field position to start the half, beginning the drive from the UCF 33 yard line. It was all in vain, however, as the Terps missed a field goal attempt from 38 yards out, followed closely by a missed 51 yard attempt on their next drive.
Twice in a row to start the quarter UCF was unable to make any real progress and failed to convert on fourth down attempts. A long pas completion from Milton to Jordan Akins shook the game up with under five minutes remaining in the quarter, setting up a first and goal on the heels of a 71 yard catch and run.
Milton would punch it in from seven yards out after recovering a fumble on the three yard line.
UCF 14 Maryland 10
Maryland needed little time to recover. Following the score the Terrapins marched right into UCF territory, punching in a score from the ground on a 16 yard rush.
UCF 14 Maryland 17
Fourth Quarter:
This was the smoothest the offense has looked in one drive. Milton and company began to really click here, piecing together a few big plays. Killins broke free for a long run, Tre Quan Smith reeled in a highlight-worthy pass and Milton made plays with his legs. The drive did end up stalling out, but not before UCF was able to tie things up with a 41 yard field goal.
UCF 17 UMD 17
 
 



The Basement Orlando made national headlines with their promotion of “free beer until UCF wins” about four games into the 2015 season.
UCF wouldn’t chalk up a W until the season opener of the 2016 season where a 38-0 shutout of South Carolina State University took place at Bright House Networks Stadium, but the promotion extends past the win for Knights fans downtown.

The Basement ran the promotion to get fans to watch the games despite the previous season’s losing streak and, now that UCF has shown a win (or wins) can be secured this season, they’re looking to attract those fans to watch UCF come out victorious like in 2013 and 2014. 

Free beer will be offered until Maryland scores a touchdown this Saturday night and, once the Knights finish this game, fans who wear a specialty UCF football shirt will receive free beer on gameday – no matter the score and no matter who UCF play’s in the 2016 season.



ORLANDO, Fla. – For the second consecutive week, UCF will continue its rebirth under Scott Frost against a power-five opponent, locking horns with the 2-0 Maryland Terrapins on Saturday. The Terps represent a significant test for the 1-1 Knights as they still are working to cement in a new identity.
Let’s take a look at some of the things to watch in a transition from The Big House to The Bounce House on Saturday.
Quarterback Curveball:
It was reported Saturday morning that freshman quarterback McKenzie Milton will get the start in the wake of what appeared to be a significant non-contact injury to Justin Holman last weekend. Milton is a true freshman brought in by the new coaching regime and will get his chance to make an impact as Frost is clearly looking to avoid diving down the same rabbit hole that was the 2015 season when Holman went down and the quarterback play suffered dearly.
The Level of Competition:
Though the Knights suffered a 51-14 shellacking against Michigan last week, this young team hit hard against one of the premiere football programs in the nation in their previous game. You couldn’t find a player who looked disappointed in the effort afterwards, and the not only confidence level that stems from landing a few good punches against a team that talented, but the knowledge of what it takes to compete at the highest level should benefit UCF significantly.
Maryland, on the other hand, is 2-0 against Howard University and FIU this season. Not that the Knights have established themselves as the conference power they once were, but UCF should pose a new kind of threat for the Terrapins.
UCFast Run Game:
Frost has shown often and early that he is going to call a variety of numbers when it comes time to carry the rock. Expect for this running back by committee approach to continue in the third week of college football, though true freshman Jawon Hamilton is emerging as the lead dog pulling the sled.
Hamilton has 26 carries for 92 yards without a score. Adrian Killins flashed homerun potential with an 87 yard rush for a touchdown against the Wolverines – the first touchdown scored against Michigan this season – and returning back Dontravious Wilson has notched 96 yards and a score of his own on only 23 carries this young season.
Safe Play from the Terrapins:
Maryland has managed to avoid tossing an interception through their initial two games, but has only aired it out for three touchdowns over the same time span. It speaks to a conservative approach in playcalling, not asking for big plays or forcing risky shots downfield that can be fodder for a hungry secondary.
Quarterback Perry Ellis will likely produce in much of the same manner this week, averaging about nine yards per pass attempt. The Terps will rely on consistent, smaller gains and feature a three-headed-attack on the ground from Lorenzo Hamilton, Trey Edmunds and Ty Johnson; the three have combined for 45 carries, 339 yards and four scores.
Knights’ Linebackers:
It is always a good sign to see heavy production from your linebackers, and the Knights’ roster has displayed an unparalleled energy level early on. Chequan Burkett paces UCF in tackles with 14 as a reserve, making the most of his time on the field, while Errol Clarke owns 1.5 tackles for loss.
Combined with the efforts of Shaquem Griffin, the linebackers have been all over the field, consistently making plays around the ball. They have a chance to be the difference maker against Ellis’ accuracy behind center.



