“Valentine’s Day is a day known for love, hearts, and happiness to couples everywhere. But in this world, there is one couple that stands out more than others; their bond, slathered in tomato sauce and pepperoni, is one that is, well, very cheesy,” said Lauren Laveria, who posted a Valentine’s Day photoshoot of a man and his pizza on her photography business Facebook page. 
The post featured Dalton Johnson, a 21-year-old air conditioning service tech, and his beloved Papa John’s pepperoni pizza in 11 different, mouthwatering photos. Laveria is a 22-year-old creative writing major at the University of Central Florida who also juggles a second job as a professional photographer for her company Lauren Rita Photography. Shooting couples for engagement photos and weddings is nothing new for her. 
When Johnson suggested doing a photo session of himself with a Papa John’s Pizza, Laveria, who was offering mini-sessions for the holiday, jumped at the idea. Johnson unfortunately did not have a Valentine’s date and thought it would be a great way to bring some humor on a day that so many stress about. “I know a lot of people feel lonely that day so I wanted to do something that would make people smile and laugh,” said Johnson.
The post has been a hit with over 2,000 likes, 3129 shares and has boosted Laveria’s likes on her photography page an extra 500 in just one night. While Laveria is unsure about how much business it will actually bring her, she is excited for the extra traffic the pizza photo shoot has brought. 
For now, Laveria is always looking for new fun and creative ideas for photo shoots but leaves a little advice for those who feel lonely on next year’s Valentine’s Day. “So remember everyone, if you are alone on this day, you can go out and buy a pizza. How can you consider yourself single when there’s 8 perfectly good slices right there with you? There is no greater love than that.”



Nothing in life–or business–is free, but it can be cheap.
Andre DeBarros, a senior finance major, and alumni Gabe Medina, ’14, co-owners of Schoolflow, a homework organization app, explained their frugal startup to 27 prospective entrepreneurs at the BlackStone LaunchPad Feb. 12.
Schoolflow uses an application-programming interface, or API, to connect with the online learning platform Canvas.
Canvas’s API allows Schoolflow to access certain information, like assignments and their due dates, after a user authenticates their Canvas account. Schoolflow organizes these assignments and sends notifications to the user when an assignment is nearing its due date or when it is graded.
When startup costs seemed daunting, the pair found several ways to cut costs and promote business growth.
“We probably spent less than $500 in the first three months of Schoolflow,” Medina said. “And he [DeBarros] thought we were splurging.”
Medina and DeBarros credited free softwares, including Trello, Harvest and Slack, with streamlining the organization and task assignment for their business. Their promotional video cost $30, $5 of which paid a Fiverr user for his voice-over.
“As far as marketing, we spent a lot of time on social media promoting in college groups,” DeBarros said. “We experimented with Facebook ads, but it ended up costing us $1 per new user of the app, which was too much cost per user for a free app.”
Another way Medina and DeBarros cut costs was to conduct hundreds of interviews prior to establishing the app.
“That way there was no wasted development time,” DeBarros said. “Everything you make is already wanted by someone.”
Medina and DeBarros also spent a lot of time forming business relationships through pitch competitions and with professors, which allowed them to recently expand Schoolflow to University of Florida.
“There are a lot of free resources out there to prospective entrepreneurs,” said Scarletta Thomas, the speaking coordinator and operations administrator at the BlackStone LaunchPad. “The LaunchPad is a free resource. You have to do a lot of research to find these things, and they did.”
Jerome McLeod, a junior integrative business major, said he had not realized how easy starting a business could be.
“Getting capital isn’t as hard as it may seem, and you can get it as long as you remain dedicated,” he said. “I want to be an entrepreneur myself, and I am glad I learned how you can change and pivot your ideas and find one that’s going to go somewhere without spending a lot of money.”
Marcus Elestin, a junior finance major, plans to start taking advantage of resources he learned about at the event.
“I just saw today how tangible the goal is,” he said. “You can achieve becoming an entrepreneur just by taking advantage of all the free resources out there.”
Schoolflow is used by approximately eight percent of iOS users at UCF. Schoolflow expects the Android app will be available for download by the end of the semester.



Alexander Osorio, a student reported missing on Feb. 10 and last seen on Feb. 7, has been confirmed to have passed away unexpectedly in Miami.
When Knight News broke the missing persons report, Osorio was supposed to be on his way back to UCF.
Viewing and funeral services were held on Monday in Hollywood, Florida at Hunter’s Hollywood Memorial Home. An obituary has been published online for Osorio.
An excerpt from the obituary follows:
[Alexander] was born in Queens (Elmhurst) New York on February 9, 1996, the son of Maricel Osorio and Alexander Arboleda. At the age of 4, Alexander moved with his family to South Florida settling in Hollywood. He graduated from South Broward High School where he was on the swim team. He earned his life guard certificate and worked for one year at the Hollywood YMCA. At the time of his death, he was a student at University of Central Florida majoring in mechanical engineering.
The student passed away two days before his twentieth birthday.
A GoFundMe has been started to gather donations to be made towards a charity in Alexander’s name, the family stated, with a goal of $3,000.
This is a breaking story. Check back with Knight News as details arrive.



University of Central Florida student Joshua Gicker surprised Maurice, a UCF shuttle driver, in person for his birthday to show appreciation towards the enthusiasm Maurice has given students day-over-day.
Maurice’s birthday was on Sunday, Valentine’s Day, also the day when Gicker made a post on his apartment student living page telling his fellow residents about the how driver has impacted students.
“[Maurice] is easily one of the most kind individuals I have ever met. He doesn’t care what you look like or who you are, he always has a smile for you,” the student said on a YouTube post. “I watched tons of college students come together to give back to this man who goes above and beyond in his job every day.”
Over the holiday, Gicker and his peers at Plaza on University raised $450 for the UCF and company employee.
“His birthday was this past Sunday,” Joshua said to Knight News, learning last Thursday. “Upon finding out, I made one Facebook post on my apartment page and with the help of countless others we raised 450 dollars for him.”
Over 376 people came together for Maurice on his birthday to return the smiles and kindness he gave to students.
“You deserve all of this and more – happy birthday,” read a note from another student to the driver.
Maurice also wished his company and the university could share in the outpouring of support seen from his student friends. He takes care of Route 14 for students.
“This is so great, I’m going to go through every one of these,” the driver said on the list of people that came together for him. “This is so nice, you guys are so great – you guys are the greatest and I’m just so overwhelmed!”
“I want to thank everybody from the bottom of my heart for letting me be the guy that I am with you guys – waking you up in the morning, getting you started and sharing something that you might need and [today] you guys gave it back, you gave that love back.”
Joshua continued.
“Basically this man lives every day like it is his last. Maurice turns and acknowledges everyone that walks on the bus and makes every bus ride an experience, whether it’s being goofy on the microphone or singing. He makes everyone feel like an individual and special for an even 5-minute ride.”
“I am a transfer student from Tampa and this past semester was my first one here at UCF and Maurice was one of my first friends. If everyone lived like Maurice, I really believe there would be no problems in this world,” Gicker added.
“I will never forget this moment.”
Joshua would like to thank Megan McCarthy for her help in donations, which rose to one hundred dollars a day over the weekend.
The video – UCF Shuttle Driver Birthday Surprise – is available below on YouTube.




