UCF came out firing on all levels against the East Carolina Pirates Saturday evening.
“We talk about just playing the right way,” said UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones. “Playing together at a level that we expect from each other and I think in the first-half that finally came together.”
UCF scored a season high 60 points in the first-half, knocked down eight three-point field goals and took a 28-point lead going into halftime.
The Knights’ relentless play in the first half against ECU and their ability to maintain a significant lead throughout the game shows the team’s growth and drive.
“We’re just trying to make sure as we go on in conference we take it to a different level and prepare for every game like we really want to win,” said red-shirt sophomore forward A.J Davis. “We just been really focused lately in trying to get the job done and it showed. We’ve been preparing a lot better from our bigs to our guards knocking down shots… we were all just ready for the game.”
The Knights played against ECU like they had something to prove and UCF center, Justin McBride says the team is playing with a chip on their shoulder.
“We were picked like ninth in our league,” said McBride. ”That’s disrespectful, so what you do is you don’t talk about it, you don’t whine about it. You go to work every day and you clock-in, and you show people and that’s what we’re trying to do right now.”
UCF is tied for second with Houston in the AAC with a 3-1 conference record. Overall the Knights are 9-6 midway through the college basketball season.
“We can really go as far as we make up in our mind we want to go,” said McBride.
Photo courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications



ORLANDO, Fla. – Tacko Fall and Justin McBride combined for 24 points as UCF grabbed the season sweep over East Carolina 89-69 on Saturday.
“There’s a lot of good efforts for guys tonight, I thought we played very unselfish and I thought we played together as a group,” head coach Donnie Jones said. “And I really love the way these guys were cheering for each other. I think those are the things that as a basketball coach you are looking for in your team as we continue to move through the schedule.”
The Knights seemed to have the Pirates figured out the second time around, shooting 54.2 percent on Saturday after just barely etching out a 71-68 victory on January 2. UCF’s size gave them a huge edge over ECU as they got out to a 60-32 halftime lead and they never looked back. The offensive prowess of the Knights led to their third game of the season with five players in double-digit scoring.
“It was fun, that’s the only word I can use to describe it,” McBride said. “You know you are hitting shots, you are passing the ball and everybody is just cheering for each other. That’s the way it is supposed to be and that’s why we play this game.”
Justin McBride followed up his stellar performance against SMU with 12 points and 11 rebounds, while Tacko Fall pitched in 12 points and 5 rebounds of his own. McBride seems to be coming into his own as a leader for the Knights off of the bench and his presence in the paint provides the team with a perfect complement to the 7-foot-6 Fall.
The ‘shared purpose’ philosophy that Jones has been preaching was in full effect on Saturday and proved that the Knights could be a force within the American Athletic Conference as they continue to improve on both ends of the court. The win over East Carolina brings the Knights to 3-1 in conference play, with their only loss coming to the undefeated SMU Mustangs.
“I think if we can all get to a level where we are playing are hardest all of the time and competing, then everybody starts to make those plays,” redshirt sophomore forward AJ Davis said. “You see more guys diving on the floor and you see more guys make that extra pass.”
UCF’s next contest will take the team to Tampa to take on the rival USF Bulls for the second time in two weeks. The Knights took the first contest at home against the Bulls 75-64 as Adonys Henriquez went off for 20 points, 6 rebounds and 2 assists.
 



Jacob Soto, a sophomore finance major, sits down every night at around 9 p.m. for what he calls “me time.” The TV and video games consoles power on. He is in the zone. 
Inevitably, his girlfriend, Natalie Rogers, a junior business major, bursts through the door asking an array of questions about soccer balls, parent phone calls and children’s birthday parties. 
Soto waves her off. 
“It can wait,” he says. 
Soto’s late evenings are dedicated to video games and Netflix, not to answering Rogers’ questions about their business. Soto and Rogers co-own Core Sports Academy, a youth soccer company dedicated to coaching preschool and elementary-age children in early soccer techniques. 
“I need that time during the evening to relax, and she just doesn’t know how to stop thinking of the business past a certain time,” Soto said. 
The couple spoke with student entrepreneurs at the UCF Blackstone LaunchPad Wednesday. 
The best way to be successful is to visualize success every day, Rogers said. 
In 2013, Rogers’ aunt, a day care director, asked her to coach soccer. Rogers agreed, since she had played soccer since childhood. Rogers’ father purchased the business name, “Kick It with Natalie,” for $150. 
In 2014, Soto joined the venture. The name changed to Core Sports Academy. In March 2015, the couple quit their part-time jobs to focus on the business.
“Now, all of our income comes from our business, and it’s doing well,” Rogers said. 
Core Sports Academy is on track to earn $80,000 in revenue this calendar year. Since last year, it has grown from two to six employees and expanded service from one to six schools in the Orlando metropolitan area. During that time, the company increased enrollment in its programs by 1,150 percent. 
Like so many undergraduate entrepreneurs before them—Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, Microsoft mogul Bill Gates, Dell’s namesake Michael Dell, and even UCF-alum Jesse Wolfe who recently scored a $50,000 deal on ABC’s Shark Tank—the pair is focused on success.
Unlike Zuckerberg, Gates and Dell, the pair does not plan to drop out of college. Rather, Rogers and Soto balance perfection of their business model with studying for the next business exam. 
“We have to consider what would happen if our business were to fail,” Soto said. “If I need to go to work nine to five, and I have a degree from UCF, I’ll be able to do that while I plan my next business venture.” 
Striking a balance between business ownership and school has become second nature to the couple. Rogers said it works for one reason: organization. 
“We have calendars everywhere and make lists every morning of what needs to be done, urgently, that day,” Rogers said. 
The list often includes due assignments and study schedules for classes, along with coaching events and meetings with potential clients. Their schedules are exceedingly busy, but both say they intend to complete their degrees at UCF.
Owning a business and attending campus business classes gives Soto an advantage over his peers. 
“I’m able to take what I learn in class and immediately apply it to what I’m doing when I’m not in
class,” he said. 
Over the next year, Soto projected Core Sports Academy will serve 10 schools. By the end of 2017, he said the company will bring in over six figures in revenue.
“My purpose is to make my business successful and bring a love of sports to kids at a young age,” Rogers said. “And if you focus on your dreams, and really visualize them coming to fruition, it will undoubtedly happen.” 
The couple approach every day with focus and enthusiasm. When the clock strikes nine, Soto’s business and UCF brain shut off and he wants only one thing. 
“I just want to veg out and play video games for a while,” he said. “The business and school can wait.”



University of Central Florida students are snatching up free gear including Apple laptops loaded with Adobe Creative Cloud, Panasonic or LUMIX HD cameras, and Sennheiser sound gear.
The catch? They only have the equipment for one week as they work to create a five-minute movie.
Campus MovieFest (CMF) is the world’s largest student film festival and is returning to UCF for the fifteenth annual world tour.
The official launch will be 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. Jan. 19, where students can receive the loaned equipment in the Student Union atrium, according to news releases. Along with the equipment, students will have access to royalty-free music, and any training or support they need, according to the release statement.
They will have one week for shooting and editing and then submit their work from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. Jan. 25 at the guest services by the Pegasus Ballroom, according to CMF’s website.
On Feb. 18, students are welcome to view the top 16 films in the Pegasus Ballroom at 7 p.m., as the judges ‒ a panel of UCF students, staff, and faculty ­‒ choose the top four to be entered into the national competition, the release stated.
Prizes include a year’s membership to Adobe Creative Cloud, a cash grant and other prizes, along with more exposure opportunities, according to the release.
The released also stated that the entire 2015-2016 CMF tour includes over 35 campuses and will award over $100,000 in cash and prizes.
For more information about Campus MovieFest and to sign up, go to http://www.campusmoviefest.com/ucf.



The University of Central Florida Police Department is asking for help to identify a man suspected of burglary and theft inside the Performing Arts Center on campus.
The crime took place between 7:30 p.m. Wednesday and 12:30 a.m. Thursday, according to UCFPD spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin. 
The stolen items included an American flag, a projector, and a wireless access point device. The items were reported stolen to UCFPD at 9:00 a.m. Thursday.
 
The man in the video was described as a tall, white, college-aged man with dark hair.  
The suspect identified himself to a witness as “Thomas.” He smelled strongly of cigarettes and also was seen smoking near the building, witnesses say, according to Gilmartin.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
The suspect was seen leaving the H parking lot near the Performing Arts Center in what looked to a gray, 4-door, Dodge Charger. The car had a small red symbol on the bottom left corner of the grill. 
UCFPD asks anyone who recognizes this man or has any other information to call 407-823-5555.



