What a difference a year makes.
It has been exactly one year since head football coach Scott Frost was hired at UCF after coming from Oregon as the Ducks Offensive Coordinator, and Knight’s fan couldn’t be more thankful for his arrival.
On Wednesday, Coach Frost held a press conference inside the recruiting lounge at Bright House Stadium, and ran into some questions regarding the recent firing of Oregon head coach Mark Helfrich as well as speculation to whether or not Frost was a candidate to be Helfrich’s replacement.
“What if Phil Knight offered you eight million dollars a year?”, one reporter asked Frost during the press conference. To which Frost coyly replied, “What would you do if Phil Knight offered you eight million dollars a year?”
“A lot of coached are in a hurry to take the next step,” Frost said, “I think you get yourself in trouble when you take a step before you’re ready or before the time is right. I’m committed to making this place a really good football program and a football program that can win and win consistently in our league.” Frost concluded his answer to the question by adding, “I’m not even considering looking for a job until we get to that point.”
Frost took over a squad that went 0-12 in 2015, a year that many UCF fans have tried to block from their memory, and now only one season later the Knights are going bowling after finishing 6-6.
It is unclear which bowl game the Knights will be playing in, but Frost made it clear that he already has his sights set on next year and UCF’s next recruiting class. “I’ve been recruiting all week… There’s a ton of talent right around here, we’re going to tap into it. I love where we are with this recruiting class, what we got out of last recruiting class, we get some time to get our guys into this system and into this program and I think we think can do some special things.”
Currently the Knights are awaiting to find out which bowl game they will receive a bid to, although predictions show that it will likely be in Florida. 
“I’m really proud of where our guys are and how we’ve battled and I love the direction we’re headed,” Scott said.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued updates.



