Who runs the school? Squirrels! 
That’s what students shared as they gathered Monday, April 4 at the Student Union (SU), to share their favorite stories about the notorious (or infamous) UCF squirrels.
The annual Nuts about UCF event put on by SGA is a favorite amongst students. 
SGA scattered funny signs all around the SU, set up a photo booth, as well a place for students to share their dramatic squirrel stories that will later be made into a video. 
A contest to win a shirt is available for students on Instagram: all you have to do is share your story about why you are nuts about UCF using the #NutsAboutUCF. 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 



By: Rachel Dececco
A buck plopped down on a table outside the Student Union. To buy a cupcake. It’s a donation. But where does that one dollar go? Who’s on the other end of it? Who does it help? In this case, it helps pay for a young girl’s last dance, a child’s last Christmas and someone to hold a hand.
Cupcakes for a Cure, a University of Central Florida student organization, tables twice a month outside the union. According to club President Hansee Karamchandani, all of the proceeds from the cupcakes go to an organization called BASE Camp, an Orlando-based children’s cancer foundation that provides year round support for children suffering from cancer and other life threatening illnesses. 
The foundation puts on events throughout the year, and collects donations for their members. Karamchandani said the best part of the club is “forming the relationships” that help “fuel her drive” to raise money for the children and families supported by BASE Camp.
Jackie Ellis is the director of development for the facility. She heard about BASE Camp through its prom event. 
Jackie’s daughter, Simone Ellis, had been diagnosed with aggressive fibromatosis. The disease is marked by the slow growth of tumors in cells that are meant to protect vital organs such as the lungs and liver. 
According to Jackie, when she was 17 years old, her daughter received an invitation from BASE Camp to attend their annual prom. 
“We thought she would be shuffled into a room with younger kids, bad music, and cheap decorations,” Jackie said. “She did the typical teenager thing, complained and rolled her eyes. I told her she should go, and if she didn’t like it, I would pick her up.” 
Simone went. At midnight, Jackie did get a call, just not the one she expected. Her daughter called to say she was “having a blast.” 
Jackie said she was shocked. She “never heard her, [Simone,] sound so excited and happy.” 
Eventually Simone started going to more events and her mom started to volunteer. Jackie ended up becoming executive director for eight years.
“BASE Camp is there to hold your hand,” Jackie said. “It’s not just a slogan.” 
When 26-year-old Simone was suddenly hospitalized, Jackie knew this was her daughter’s last hospital visit. 
That night Jackie said she made two phone calls. One was to BASE Camp founder Terri Jones-Robbins. The other was to director of programs, Cindy Whitaker. Jackie said both Whitaker and Robbins rushed to the hospital. “That night inside the hospital room, they held Simone’s hand with me as she died,” Jackie said. 
“BASE Camp is smaller than similar organizations, but we have twice the heart,” Jackie said. 
BASE Camp offers an enormous amount of services and holds events throughout the year for the families associated with them. By doing this, the foundation is constantly involved in the lives of the families involved. Dinner and movie nights are planned for kids who are in the hospital and want a taste of the outside world. 
A food pantry is also filled for families who have had to give up their jobs to look after their sick kids. Another event is an annual Christmas party held in December and July. BASE Camp grants wishes for kids who have overcome cancer and second wishes for kids who have relapsed. The list is immense.
Rick and Diana Barnum have only one word to describe their experience at BASE Camp: “amazing,” 61-year-old Diana said. She and her husband Rick, 65, have been volunteering for about eight months. 
Jessie Kendrick, 32, started volunteering around the same time as the Barnum family. She describes her experience as “something out of this world.”
After Kendrick’s first night she stated she was “energized by how playful, and funny he kids were.” 
Tthere was a little boy who was leaving, and as he was walking out the door he turned to me and said BYE Felisha! After that I was hooked,” Kendrick recalled.



By: Claudia Gesiotto
It was a perfectly sunny day with a slight breeze at Lake Claire. A multitude of people started to arrive, including children, college students and parents. Some wore blank white t-shirts in anticipation for the bags of paint that would end up plastered to them by the end of the day, while others bought T-shirts that were available for a $5 donation to Sangam, UCF’s Indian Student Association.
Holi, the Hindu Festival of Colors, is a famous holiday in India that marks the advent of spring.
The joyful celebrations traditionally include people throwing colored powder and water balloons at each other, as well as singing and dancing. This year, India celebrated Holi on Thursday, March 24.
At UCF, Sangam hosted their very own Holi celebration from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on April 3. The event was free to all UCF students and faculty. People from the community paid a small fee of $5 for paint bags, water balloons and food.
The festivities commenced with DJ Keshav Nelavai, a sophomore at UCF, playing catchy Bollywood songs with the occasional addition of E.D.M and pop music while the President of Sangam Chirag Bhandari gave instructions to form two lines facing each other.
“We try to have everyone clash in the middle so there is an explosion of color,” Bhandari said. “This way, it looks cool and you get a feel for what it is actually like in India.”
The walls of people rushed forward as a brilliant haze from all the colors rose up to the sky.
“Holi is a huge community thing. Neighbors, family and people from out of town all come together and have fun,” Bhandari said.
Since it became a registered student organization on campus in 1983, Sangham has been hosting the festival. Bandar said they do it ever year.
UCF junior Adrian Del Toro said he would definitely come next year.
“It has been a lot of fun throwing paint on each other and just acting like fools,” Del Toro said.
The color wars were temporarily halted for a lunch break. The rainbow colored line of people twisted around the Lake Claire pavilion. The Indian cuisine from Aashirwad included chicken biryani.
Caelin Linaja, one of the most vividly painted participants, said he enjoyed his first Holi celebration.
“The highlight of today was the connections I made,” Linaja said. “You can do things you normally wouldn’t do in a group like dance crazy and throw water on random strangers.”
The day concluded with water gun and water balloon fights. Despite water being squirted everywhere, the bodies and faces of many remained painted with the beautiful colors of Holi.



By: Brianna Jones
Imagine throwing a Project X type of party every other weekend; with an outgoing personality and drive, one University of Central Florida student made that possible.
Fabian Rene, a junior marketing major, saw an untapped world and decided to conquer it. Commonly known as “Faybo,” he is a major party promoter at UCF. He went from having no social life in high school to being the go-to party guru for the black community his freshman year at UCF.
“I basically went to school, I went to football practice and after football practice I went home and then do it all over again,” Rene said.
Originally planned to go to Florida Agriculture and Mechanical University (FAMU), Rene was discouraged because he knew he could be something greater at UCF. After getting accepted for summer semester at UCF, he was driven to make the most out of his experience.
“At that point, I [swore] to God I’m going to take advantage of this opportunity that he gave me,” said Rene.
As a freshman, he was approached through Twitter by older UCF promoters — because of his magnetic personality — to join their promoting team. At first party promoting was just a pastime on social media, until he made $600 off of his first party. Using the skills that he learned in his marketing classes sophomore year, he created his own party-promoting company, FayboEra.
Rene’s first solo party, Who Is Who, was the event that made him known not only to UCF students, but also to local club owners and promoters. Who Is Who was a party where students on Twitter got to finally meet face-to-face with other students who they have been interacting with on social media. The end results were a success, with a turnout of over 500 people maxing out the local King Tut’s Lounge and a total revenue of $8,000.
“I was on a success high, it felt like nothing was going to stop me,” Rene said.
As his parties became more popular, Rene’s business began to expand. At the start, Rene did everything by himself; he was his own accountant and marketer, anything that needed to be done was done by him. 
Realizing other ways to become more marketable, he joined a joint venture with his friend, Matthew Fontil. 
Dropping the name FayboEra and picking up Fontil’s name, TMRWCO became a hit. Rene runs the company while Fontil, an up-and-coming rapper, focuses more on his music.
TMRWCO not only plans events but also handles artists like a record label, market and brand. 
The company tries to reach all avenues of entertainment. Legitimizing his business even further, Rene hand-selected a team, choosing students from UCF, Valencia and Fullsail.
His go-to team consists of two of his closest friends, Kevin Louidor and Darius McFadden. They have weekly meetings to keep him updated on progress. Since these are paid positions, Rene is looking to start filing taxes.
“I’m just taking this company to a whole other level,” Rene said.
Making business relations with local club owners was a breeze because “money talks,” Rene said. 
As the owners began to see his work ethic, they began to respect him.
“He’s the guy to go for college students,” said Tony Khuu, co-owner of Uno Night Club.
Now that he is a well-respected promoter, club owners don’t charge him a fee upfront as they would others. At the age of 20, Rene was able to host parties at local and downtown clubs. 
Of course there are always hurdles in life; some downtown clubs treat him like the average college student and not like the well-rounded businessman that he is. This has caused him to shy away from downtown for a while.
“I want to be treated like a business partner not like some promoter you just hired,” Rene said.
Competition isn’t something Rene feeds into. Having a humble mindset, he isn’t looking to monopolize the industry.
“Some days I wake up feeling like Kanye and other days I’m like ‘it’s not mine it’s all of ours.’”
Majority of those in the same line of business as him are his friends, so instead of tearing each other down they collectively build on each other—having joint parties and being courteous when choosing party dates. Respect is a key component when business and friendships are involved.
“He stays positive regardless of the outcome… he’s resilient,” stated the Young Trend Setter CEO, Dimitri Jean- Pierre about Rene.
In addition to his business, Rene also maintains his grades and leadership roles. Freshman year he was a part of SB PAC, Sophomore year he was the CAB Marketing Director and is currently a member of Progressive Black Men.
His dreams exceed local UCF. After college he wants to continue to prosper with TMWRCO and move to Germany to work for BMW. Having been uncharacteristically quiet for the last few months, Rene is definitely up to something.
“I’m silent right now but, the moves are being made behind the scene.”



Ticket distribution has started for one of the most anticipated events at the University of Central Florida…
Universal Knights ticket distribution kicks off Monday, April 4. The event itself is April 17 from 4 p.m.-1 a.m.
Ticket distributions are the following:
Main campus:
April 4 – 2 p.m.: inside the CFE Arena
April 6 – 6 p.m.: inside the CFE Arena
April 7 – 8 a.m.: lobby of the CFE Arena
April 9 – noon: John T. Washington Center
April 12 – 10 a.m.: inside the CFE Arena
Altamonte:
April 5: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
April 6: 12:30 p.m. – 5:15 p.m.
Cocoa: 
April 4: 8 a.m. – 1 p.m.
April 5: 8 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 – 5 p.m.
April 6: 8 a.m. – 1 p.m.
April 7: 8 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 – 5 p.m.
Daytona:
April 4: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
April 5: 9 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
Lake Nona:
April 4: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
April 5: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
April 6: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
April 7: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
April 8: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Palm Bay:
April 4: 11:15 a.m. – 6 p.m.
April 5: 9 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
April 6: 8:30 a.m. – 6 p.m.
Rosen: 
April 4: 9 a.m. – 2 p.m.
April 5: 9 a.m. – 2 p.m.
April 6: 9 a.m. – 2 p.m.
April 7: 9 a.m. – 2 p.m.
Sanford Lake Mary:
April 4: 9 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
April 5: 3:30 –  6 p.m.
April 6: 9:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
April 7: 9 a.m. – 6 p.m.
South Lake:
April 4: 9 a.m. – 6 p.m.
April 5: 9 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
April 6: 9 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
April 7: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Valencia Osceola:
April 4: 9 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
April 5: 9 a.m. – 2 p.m.
April 6: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Valencia West:
April 4: 12:30 – 5 p.m.
April 5: 10 a.m. – 6:30 p.m.
April 7: 10 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
April 8: 12:30 p.m. – 6 p.m.
In order to attend the event, students must pick up a ticket and wrist band at a distribution with a valid UCF ID.
Tickets will last until they run out for that distribution.
“Please note that tickets are not guaranteed, are given out at a limited amount per day and will be very high in demand. Plan on arriving early to distribution times to better your chances on [receiving] a ticket,” the Facebook event stated.
Guest passes will be available for $50 at the park on the day of the event for non-UCF students. One guest pass is allowed per student.
Shuttle services will once again be provided. That information will be available at distribution.
Parking for the event is free. They will be available online for print off and the link will be posted closer to the event.
Universal Knights is an event put on by the Student Government Association where students can attend Universal Studios for free. 
In the past, Universal Knights has been held at Islands of Adventure but was moved this year to Universal Studios.



