In the wake of a tragedy in the City of Orlando, the residents of not only the city but also Central Florida and the world sought to express what would undoubtedly become the among greatest displays of support the country has seen since the turn of the century.
News stations and radio stations halted their daily broadcast schedules to bring information and comfort to citizens impacted by the Pulse shooting, providing continuous coverage as a previously-thought-to-be cold city focused on one thing and showed itself and the world how community was brought together.
Vigils to fit every citizen’s schedule and region-wide messages that could be seen from buildings, organizations, the 408, 417 and 528 highway system and theme parks lifted spirits.
On Saturday night, nearly 40,000 fans coordinated to make the stands of Camping World Stadium rainbow colored as did Orlando City Soccer Club with changes to how the game played out. The soccer club stitched special patches to the players’ jerseys, the staff wore black bands around their arms, 50 seats with balloons were reserved for the 49 lives lost at Pulse and the 50th belonging to Christina Grimmie. A moment of silence and recognition of first responders and city officials on the field prior to kick off emulated how quickly Orlando was ready to come together.
A first half of close opportunities but no goal left the score 0-0 by halftime.
In the 66th minute, Orlando City’s Seb Hines gave the stadium what it was looking for – a goal to lead the game 1-0. A flurry of color coordinated sections took to their feet to celebrate a long-awaited opportunity to win.

For twenty minutes the Lions held back four San Jose attempts to equalize the game but would let one goal slip through at the 85th minute.
Surely, fans thought, Orlando City would come back. And they would be right.
At the 90th minute, Orlando City forward Julio Baptista would top off a perfect way to end the memorial game with a volley and then goal that hit off of San Jose’s goalkeeper hand and into the net.
Tens of thousands of fans cheered as the team rushed Baptista in celebration.

The feeling amounted to what every citizen of Orlando looked for in a week of tragic news. For several minutes, sport elatedly brought together a city and showed the world that Orlando would be a community that stood united. Fans with commemorative shirts, wristbands, ribbons, and rainbow flags celebrated with an awe-spiring response.
When tragedy struck in Boston in 2013, Orlando and the rest of the country sent a piece of themselves to support the Northeastern city. On the receiving end of the country’s support in the week following Sunday’s event, the response allowed the City of Orlando to see those pieces come together.

Perhaps the most awe-inspiring moments came when fans, in purple and rainbow shirts, hats, and flags, could be seen with city officials in the stands, taking photos, sharing stories, and emotionally hugging one another in a break of holding their spirit high. When fans in passing would smile and shake the hands of officers who responded to a tragedy just down the road from downtown. When citizens, often strangers to each other, broke the barrier of anonymity to share homemade rainbow ribbons and signs of appreciation to one another. When the sport, culture, and entertainment giants of a city would raise over ten million for its citizens, without hesitation.
When over a thousand students packed the student union at the University of Central Florida, thousands more at the lawn of the Dr. Phillips Center for the Performing Arts and when thirty thousand have committed to standing beside one another in good faith and somber spirit at the heart of downtown Orlando, Lake Eola.
 



Following the Pulse Night Club shooting, an Assistant Florida state Attorney has been suspended for posting ill about Orlando on Facebook.
According to a press release from the Office of the Orange Osceola State Attorney, Kenneth Lewis wrote this disparaging message just hours after the massacre:
“Downtown Orlando has no bottom. The entire city should be leveled. It is void of a single redeeming quality. It is a melting pot of 3rd world miscreants and ghetto thugs. It is void of culture. If you live down there you do it at your own risk and at your own peril. If you go down there after dark there is seriously something wrong with you. Disney does everything in its power to shield visitors of Disney from its northern blight. That doesn’t change reality. Disney may be the happiest place on earth but Orlando is a national embarrassment. If this is an act of domestic terrorist it is so important that we don’t publish the religion, name, or motive of the terrorist as not to offend anyone.”
Ken Lewis
This is not Lewis’s first time being in trouble for comments he’s made online, according to WESH, he also wished a happy Mother’s Day to “the crack hoes” in 2014.
“Happy Mother’s Day to all the crack hoes out there. It’s never too late to turn it around. Tie your tubes. Clean up your life and make a difference to someone out there that deserves a better mother,” Lewis posted.
Knight News will continue to bring you more coverage of the Pulse Night Club shooting as more information becomes available.



