On Wednesday, April 20, Treasury secretary Jacob Lew announced that Harriet Tubman is to be the new face of the $20 bill replacing former President Andrew Jackson. 
Tubman was an abolitionist who was born into slavery in 1822. Tubman escaped slavery and then helped liberate other slaves utilizing the Underground Railroad. During her life, Tubman saved about 70 African Americans from the hardship of slavery and gave them a chance at a free life.
“Her incredible story of courage and commitment to equality embody the ideals of democracy that our nation celebrates, and we’ll continue to value her legacy by honoring her on our currency,” Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew told Politico.
Former President Andrew Jackson will not be taken off the $20 dollar bill completely, instead he will be moved to the back next to a picture of the White house, NPR tweeted.
Currently there is no timetable on when the new bills will be released into circulation. Some have speculated though that the new $20 dollar bill may be released in 2020 to commemorate the one-hundreth year anniversary of the nineteenth Amendment’s ratification.
When asked about when the bill will be unveiled Lew said, “The two things most important are the security of our money and getting this process to move as quickly as possible,” according to Politico. 
Along with changes to the $20 bill, the back of the $10 bill will be changed from a picture of the treasury building to leaders from the Suffrage movement, Sojourner Truth, Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Alice Paul and Lucretia Mott, per the New York Times.
The NYT reported that $5 bills will also be getting backsides, featuring opera singer Marian Anderson, First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr.



Dozens of students gathered around the Student Union sound stage Wednesday to combat sexual harassment and what is being called “slut shaming.”
The UCF College Democrats, in collaboration with women’s groups like the UCF’s National Organization for Women and American Association of University Women chapters, held a rally and later marched to the Hitt Library and back to the patio.
“I’ve always believed that another person’s appearance should never affect their safety,” College Dems president Nikki Mariutto said. “It was kind of beyond me how a person could blame the victim in a situation of rape and assault. However, when I became a victim, I suddenly started thinking differently – I questioned if I would have been in that position if I had worn a longer skirt or even if I put on a different amount of make-up.”
She continued: “It’s taken me a long time to get to where I am today, and now I realize something more important for everyone to know. Regardless of race, gender or sexuality, you should never feel at fault for a sex crime.”
The rally was attended by Linda Stewart, a former state representative and currently a candidate for the Florida Senate District 13 on the Democratic ticket, and is campaigning in part to combat legislative actions that affect access to abortions and other services involving women’s health.
“Women have been targeted for decades, and we’re tired of it,” Stewart said. “We don’t need the legislators or elected officials telling us what we need to do with our bodies. We can make that decision on our own.”
Also at the rally were students who created and held up signs with words condemning sexual assault and the characterization of women as “sluts” for dressing in a way some would see as provocative. One student wrote the word “Slut” on his chest and held up a sign bearing the words “still not asking for it.”
“There are no ‘blurred lines,’” another sign said.
College Dems member and political science student Ashley Joyce-Nyack, took the microphone and told the story of how she was sexually assaulted as a child and was accused by the perpetrator of provoking him.
“The [perpetrator] then went forward to the cops and told the cops that because of the way I was dressing, because I didn’t know about my own body, that I was asking for it,” she said. “Luckily, this didn’t lead to a lack of justice, but for many people it does.”
Two other speakers, NOW secretary Kayla Infantino and UCF alumna and women’s rights activist Chelsea Daley, showed their support as well. Infantino highlighted the need to “teach people how not to rape instead of teaching people how not to be raped.”
The rally briefly heckled by one student who shouted apologies for “being a white male.” He tried interrupting the rally again by asking for solutions to institutionalized racism, questions which were ignored by those attending the rally.
Following the speeches, Mariutto led a march that followed a route through the breezeway, around the library and back to the Union’s sound stage. The marchers chanted in a call-and-response, which caught the attention of students who happened to be close by.
“Join together free our lives,” Mariutto would begin, to which the marchers responded: “No one will be victimized.”
A student separate from the first heckler walked in front of the march holding a sign behind his back that said “rape ≠ regret,” which inspired marchers to chant louder.
UCF’s Slut Walk is inspired by a global movement sparked in 2011 after a Canadian police officer told students to “stop dressing like sluts” to avoid sexual assault. The College Dems have been hosting the event annually ever since.
“Did you just take a breath?” Daley said. “Great. You deserve respect.”



