On Thursday, Jan. 21, the Interfraternity council will hold its rush kickoff in the Cape Ballroom starting at 6pm. If you’re interested in rushing, events will start as early as tomorrow, January 14th. Go out to rush events and meet the different fraternities of UCF and what they have to offer! Below is a schedule of some upcoming rush events.
Thursday, January 14th:
Phi Delta Theta @ Phi Delta Theta House- 5-8 p.m.
Friday, January 15th
Gazoni Family @Gazoni House- 6-9 p.m.
Saturday, January 16th
Alpha Tau Omega BBQ 3-5 p.m.
Kappa Sigma Event @ Kappa Sigma house- 3-5 p.m.
Monday, January 18th
Gazoni Family @UHouse Pool- 1-3 p.m.
Tuesday, January 19th
Beta Theta Pi Rush BBQ- 7-9 p.m.
Sigma Nu @ RWC Leisure Yard 3-5 p.m.
Wednesday, January 20th
Phi Delta Theta @ Phi Delta Theta House- 5-8 p.m.
Kappa Sigma Event @ Kappa Sigma House- 6-8 p.m.
Thursday, January 21st
IFC Kickoff @Cape Ballroom- 6 p.m.
Alpha Tau Omega Open House- 6-8 p.m.
Tau Kappa Epsilon “Meet the Tekes” @ Wakadoos, SU-7 p.m.
Gazoni Family @ Gazoni House- 6-9 p.m.
Friday, January 22nd
Delta Upsilon House Event- 6-8 p.m.
Phi Gamma Delta Tour the FIJI House 6-8 p.m.
Saturday, January 23rd
Beta Theta Pi Chick-fil-a Event- 7-9 p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi  Formal House Rush @ 13824 Econ Woods Lane – 7-9 p.m.
Sunday, January 24th
Kappa Sigma Event @ Kappa Sigma House 1-3 p.m.
Monday, January 25th
IFC Introductory BBQ @ Lake Claire 4-6 p.m.
Tuesday, January 26th
Gazoni Family @ Gazoni House- 6-9 p.m.
Alpha Tau Omega Formal Rush @ ATO House-6-8 p.m.
Tau Kappa Epsilon Formal Rush @ TKE House 6 p.m.
Delta Upsilon table @ Union + RWC Event- 4-7 p.m.
Beta Theta Pi Sports Day- 12-2 p.m.
Zeta Beta Tau House Rush @ ZBT House 6-9 p.m.
Sigma Nu FIFA Tournament @ 12115 Napiers Circle 7-9 p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi Formal House Rush @ 13824 Econ Woods Lane – 8-10 p.m.
Thursday, January 28th
Phi Delta Theta @ Phi Delta Theta House- 5-8 p.m.
Delta Sigma Phi @ Lake Claire- 5-8 p.m.
Gazoni Family @ Gazoni House- 6-9 p.m.
Delta Upsilon table @ Union + Lake Claire- 5-7 p.m.
Kappa Sigma Event @ Kappa Sigma House- 6-8 p.m.
Zeta Beta Tau Lake Claire Event. 7-9 p.m.
Sigma Nu @ Lake Claire 4-6 p.m.
Phi Gamma Delta Bonfire Night 7-9 p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi Solar Bears Game (Invite Only) – 6:30 p.m.
Friday, January 29th
Phi Gamma Delta House Rush 6-8 p.m.
Sunday, January 31st
Beta Theta Pi Formal Rush- 7-9 p.m.
Monday, February 1st
Phi Gamma Delta House Rush 6-8 p.m.
Tuesday, February 2nd
Delta Sigma Phi @ Lake Claire- 5-8 p.m.
Alpha Tau Omega Formal Rush @ ATO House 6-8 p.m.
Zeta Beta Tau House Rush @ ZBT House 6-9 p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi Tee It Up @ 320 W Mitchell Hammock Road – 7-9 p.m.
Wednesday, February 3rd
Tau Kappa Epsilon @ TKE House 6 p.m.
Sigma Nu Cigar Night @ 12115 Napiers Circle 6-8 p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi VIP Night. Location and time TBA
Thursday, February 4th
Phi Delta Theta @ Phi Delta Theta House- 5-8 p.m.
Delta Upsilon table @ Union + House- 6-8 p.m.
Zeta Beta Tau House Rush @ ZBT House 6-9 p.m.
When asked, a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity told Knight News, “Sigma Chi will be deferring all Spring 2016 bids to the Fall 2016 semester.”
If you have spring recruitment events that you would like added to this list, email us at news@knightnews.com. 



The biggest Powerball drawing is happening Wednesday night and the whole nation is eagerly waiting to see if their lives will be changed forever. 
UCF is no exception to these dreams. Every gas station, particularly the Circle K, has been bombarded recently with students buying lottery tickets. 

As of 6:30 p.m. the Circle K sold $3759 worth of Powerball tickets. This number is a result of just how big the jackpot is and the number is set to steadily rise as the drawing gets closer and closer.
The jackpot is valued at $1.5 billion with an optional lump sum cash payout of around $930 million. The odds of winning this jackpot are 1 in 292 million.
“You got to be in it to win it,”  UCF student and Powerball ticket player Glenn Sundin said.
Video credit: Divina Rayos



The University of Central Florida is partnering with LinkedIn to test a new job-search app that is focused on students about to the enter the workforce, according to a UCF press release. 
LinkedIn is also testing the app with students at Arizona State University and San Jose State University.
LinkedIn representatives will be hosting an interactive campus visit that will allow students to have their photo taken for free by a LinkedIn professional photographer and learn more about the app from LinkedIn experts, according to the press release. 
“The main goal of this partnership is to help students build their online professional identity and network and connect them to the latest job opportunities as they continue down the path to graduation,” said Maribeth Ehasz, vice president for Student Development and Enrollment Services. “This new app will be a valuable resource to help UCF students achieve their career goals. We are thrilled to join with LinkedIn for this partnership.”
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
This is the first UCF partnership with LinkedIn. The Office of Career Services will provide the job-search content as well as tips such as networking, interviewing, and creating a resume. 
“LinkedIn wants to connect students with opportunity,” said Ada Yu, senior product manager at LinkedIn. “We hope to help as many students as possible, so partnering with the University of Central Florida was an easy decision. In addition to having a large and diverse student population for us to get real feedback from, UCF’s career services center is forward thinking and has been extremely supportive in pushing this initiative forward.”



