Thousands of UCF freshmen have been moving into their dorms this weekend getting ready for the fall semester to start.
Knight News caught up with some of the freshmen moving in and asked what they thought about their roommates as well as if they forgot any items back home.
New students also told us what they’re looking forward to most now that they are UCF students.




Hundreds of potential new members ran home to their respective sororities today after recruitment week finally came to an end and they received their bid card.
Sisters from all sororities grouped together all up and down Greek Park Drive dressed to their chosen respective themes to welcome home their new members.
Fraternity brothers also gathered in the streets to support the new members joining Greek life.
Knight News caught up with some of the fraternity brothers to see what the tradition was all about.




Hundreds ran from the University of Central Florida Pegasus Ballroom to Greek Park on Saturday, August 20. There, the new sisters ran to their home and were welcomed by signs, music, and more. These students, in just one way at UCF, begin to make the most of their involvement in Central Florida.
Here are just some of the photos that captured the excitement of both the new and senior sisters of the sororities at UCF:



For many, this will their first semester in college away from home and adjusting to a new area with new people isn’t always the easiest thing to do.
Classes are set to begin on Monday, August 22. Students will have till Thursday, August 25 at 11:59 p.m. to drop their class if they choose and receive full refund.
Students will also be able to add classes up to 11:59 p.m. on Friday, August 26 to add classes to their schedule.
Those students taking classes will have till September 2 (Friday) to pay for their classes. UCF charges a $100 late fee to students who do not pay their fees on time.
If your’e living on campus, you’ll have till September 9 to pay for your housing fees.
The withdrawal deadline is October 31. This is also the last day to ask for grade forgiveness.
The last day of class will be on December 3 and final exams will take place from December 6 up until December 12.
Students living on campus will be required to leave their dorms on December 13.



