Four men who attempted to enter tonight’s U.S. Senate debate between Marco Rubio and Patrick Murphy were trespassed from campus, according to UCF Public Information Officer Courtney Gilmartin.
The incident took place at the Fairwinds Alumni Center after a third-party candidate attempted to enter the event.
The candidate did not have tickets to the debate, and had armed security with him; this is a violation of Florida state statue that prevents weapons on college campus.
UCFPD did not release the name of the candidate who attempted to enter the debate, but is expected to release more information regarding this incident tomorrow.
However, after the debate, two third party candidates posted on Facebook about the event.
Paul Stanton, a Libertarian, posted, “As a Libertarian, I respect the property rights of the debate organizers. As such, I did not attempt to trespass, despite their possible violation of federal election law by excluding me.” 
Bruce Nathan, another third party candidate, posted a video on Facebook of him confronting UCFPD officers at the door of the debate.
Check back with Knight News for updates.



UCF Knights suffer a crushing homecoming loss after facing the Temple University Owls on Saturday, Oct. 15, 2016. After leading for 58 minutes, the Knights fell to the Owls 25-26 in the final 40 seconds, sealing the Knights fate. 



The Power 5 conference The Big 12 has built up an atmosphere of opportunity for a particular group of up-and-coming football programs across the country.
Monday, October 17, 2016, a unanimous decision took place to keep the Big 12’s current number at ten after five hours of deliberation.
“We decided after very thorough discussion that we would remain at 10 members,” said Oklahoma president David Boren, who is the chair of the league’s board of directors. “We committed ourselves to that proposition and to each other.”
“I would describe it as very thoughtful and candid meeting and showed a great deal of unity and strength in the conference.”
Several of these candidates, both serious and extended, come from the American Athletic Conference – for example, the University of Houston, the University of South Florida, and most notably, the University of Central Florida.
The cash cow of revenue from the Power 5 conferences became one of the primary driving points in the fight to be included in the expansion. UCF pitched the university could increase the seating capacity of Bright House Networks Stadium to 70,000, in addition to other amenities and promises offered in favor of joining the conference.
Boren disclosed that the meeting did not include discussions on specific candidates nor was voting involving each school cast in the deliberation.
A push for praise in the expansion veto includes the strengthening of The American. UCF football head coach Scott Frost himself noted the strength of the conference.
AAC Commissioner Mike Aresco’s greatest worries that have taken place over the past two years may have dissipated in large part.
Aresco’s current plan is to move the AAC out of the culturally derogative ‘group of five,’ in reference to the lower-strength conferences in NCAA football. The commissioner, instead, plans to move The American in with the Power 5 to become the ‘Power 6,’ with the inclusion of his conference.
Photo credit: Aileen Perilla



Health and Public Affairs Building 1 will remain closed Tuesday, October 18, according to reports.
This is day 2 of the closure. No statement has been released on whether or not Health and Public Affairs Building 1 will reopen Wednesday, Oct 19. Classes that were planned to take place in the building have been cancelled in response to the fire and faculty have been prohibited from accessing their offices.
Knight News previously reported that Health and Public Affairs Building 1 suffered damages from a fire early Sunday morning. These damages forced UCF to close the building Monday, Oct 17, to allow for further assessment of the damages. There is no word yet on the damages the building sustained.
Knight News will bring you updates on the status of the Health and Publican Affairs Building 1 as more information becomes available. Check back for more information.
–
Original UCF Alert:
UCF’s Health and Public Affairs I building will remain closed Tuesday, Oct. 18, to allow for the continued assessment of damage from a fire early Sunday morning.  
All classes scheduled for Health and Public Affairs I today and Tuesday are cancelled. Faculty and staff members will not have access to their offices until the building reopens.  
Faculty and staff should participate in activities in locations other than HPA 1 as appropriate.  
Faculty and staff who are scheduled to work Monday and Tuesday and do not have an alternative location to work will be paid for missed work hours. Employees who are scheduled to work in Health and Public Affairs I on Monday and Tuesday should contact their supervisor about whether they have an alternative location to work.  
Health and Public Affairs I houses faculty and staff offices as well as classes from a variety of university departments.  
It’s possible that the building could reopen on Wednesday.



