After several years, Knightmare Rewards will be switching over to a new website with new rewards, more ways to earn points that can go to awards, and an overall more streamlined experience, UCF Athletics announced.
The University of Central Florida student rewards program offers points to students that attend sporting events throughout the year – points that can be redeemed for bobbleheads, memorabilia, mini-replicas, spirit-related t-shirts, and other apparel.

The changes go along with others made by UCF Athletics in the past year, with a new director of athletics, new coaches and staff for football, basketball, tennis and other sports, and the beginning of spring game traditions such as the ‘UCFastival’ which included food, games, and a day booked with events fans can attend ahead of the football game.
New to this year, music now plays during practices for the football players – another change since the leave of former football head coach George O’Leary – and the invitation of football alumni to the spring game. Spring game attendance boosted from an average of 4-5,000 in previous years to over 23,000 in 2016.
Evan Massengill, assistant director of fan development at UCF Athletics, leads the new changes to Knightmare Rewards to include a more streamlined platform, increased ease of access, a friendly user-interface, and better prizes.
The new Knightmare Rewards site UCFKnightmareRewards.com went live this week. Students can sign up at any time and, if they registered to the old site, information and points earned will transfer over to the new platform by mid-July, where old tokens (earned from previous points) will expire as well – points will not expire but redeemable tokens previously earned, will.

New bonuses have been added to the old Knightmare Rewards site so students can redeem tokens before they expire. Current rewards, with limited numbers in stock, include bobbleheads, various UCF t-shirts and tanks, panoramic pictures, replica tickets of bowl games and UCF football’s 2013 season, and more.



