It’s the end of the road for the Jake Milich & Elaine Sarlo Presidential ticket.
After being suspended by the election commission in a hearing that occurred behind closed doors on March 21, Milich and Sarlo appealed that decision to Chief Justice Taylor Scimeca. Today, that appeal was denied.
The election commission accused Milich and Sarlo of nine violations soon after the duo declared their candidacy. 
Since this hearing occurred away from the public eye, we do not know all nine violations. In a Facebook post, Milich listed three:
1. “Writing myself notes on my phone (such as reminders of when the debate would take place), which accidentally saved to my SGA email account that’s linked to my phone.”
2. “Hiring a webpage designer who, in an attempt to deliver a professional product, tested the website and its subsections to make sure that these worked prior to the official campaigning period.”
3. “Preparing to run by creating a twitter and Instagram page prior to the official campaigning period, despite the fact that these pages had 0 followers, 0 posts, 0 pictures, and no campaign information.”
Milich vows to continue his fight for students as a senator and chairman of the Golden Rule Review Committee.



Dozens of students gathered in the Pegasus ballroom Tuesday afternoon to listen to journalist and motivational speaker, Noor Tagouri. The speaking event was hosted by UCF’s Multicultural Student Center for as part of the Month of the Women speaking event; which celebrated the influential women in today’s society. 
Tagouri, a Libyan-American who graduated from the University of Maryland at the age of 20, has made international headlines for becoming America’s first Hijabi broadcast journalist. Besides traveling both nationally and internationally to cover events from the expansion of the mosque in Mecca to the Pope’s first mass in the Vatican, she has gained a following of support and admiration due to her quest of breaking Muslim stereotypes while empowering the community.
Maryam Arshad, a junior majoring in international & global studies, who has followed Tagouri’s journey through her vlogs and social media, says that she is inspired by the drive and motivation that Tagouri is always emphasizing and that she is a great role model for young Muslim girls.
“I think she [Tagouri] is really interesting in terms of women’s empowerment. especially in Muslim women maintaining their identity,” Arshad said. “She is a brilliant person in terms of what she does and how she goes about things.”
Tagouri started off her presentation by addressing the unfortunate terrorist attack that occurred in Belgium early Tuesday morning and how the nature of these types of attacks have such an effect on the Muslim community especially. 
“It’s always hard to have to mourn the loss of so many innocent people and at the same time having to deal with the backlash,” Tagouri said, referring to how she has already gotten messages from Muslims across the country who are scared of the repercussions from this attack.
“How many times do we have to say that this has nothing to do with our religion and how we condemn these attacks,” Tagouri continues. “It’s always a challenge. And it’s something that we always have to address and challenge.”
Tagouri expanded on her motivational speech by reminding those in the room about the significant nature of wearing a hijab and how it is not a form of oppression but in fact, a form of empowerment. 
“When a woman decides to wear a hijab, she wears it for her own personal reasons. You can never compare a person who wears a hijab and a person who doesn’t,” Tagouri explained. “ A hijab, the essence of it, comes down to your character. It comes down to who you are as a person. It’s not just a scarf that you throw on to your head. It’s about more on how that you carry yourself.”
Sarah Addelhameed, a junior biology major, came to hear what Tagouri had to say in regards to the rise in violence around the world and especially how this impacts youths of the Islamic faith.
“There have been a lot of recent events of increasing violence in the world,” Addelhameed said. “I follow her on instagram and I think she has a lot good things to say on how to address these type of things.”
While Tagouri kept her talk light-hearted; speaking of memories of her childhood and a love for Oprah and Chick-fil-a, she also spoke of more serious matters facing the community, like the rise in racism and xenophobia.
“People are filled with hate. People make stereotypes, make assumptions, because there is so much hurt, chaos, and turmoil in the world,” Tagouri said, referring to the backlash that often occurs after broadcasted terrorist attacks. “You can’t flat out blame people for thinking the way they do because not everyone is knowledgeable about the [Muslim] religion and its people.”
Tagouri stressed to the room of enthusiastic students about how, despite all the negativity and obstacles they may face, to never give up on a dream that they aspire to accomplish.
“Everything you want is right outside your comfort zone,” Tagouri said, “No one owes you. You have to work for what you want.”
Tagouri, who is the founder of both #LetNoorShine campaign and the Noor Effect, which is a movement to combat human trafficking, continues to break cultural stereotypes through motivating others and reporting on issues that affect the vulnerable people of the community.   
Most recently, Tagouri created an investigative documentary called, ‘The Trouble They’ve Seen: The Forest Haven Story’, which was released November of 2015. The short film told the stories of the top ten worst cases of medical abuse in American history. 
Tagouri is expected to continue her travels across the country to attend more some more speaking events which will include Memphis and Boston later this week. 



A pledge of the Delta Upsilon fraternity complained that he and others were forced to run at 5 a.m. until they vomited, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Three men with ties to Kappa Alpha Psi, which has been suspended nationally for eight years, spun read and white canes acting as if they were majorettes in a marching band. When they dropped the canes, they were beaten by two other men with canes, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The University is investigating the two incidents, according to the Sentinel.
Greek Life organizations emphasize they do philanthropy and promote student leadership.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, UCF investigated fraternities at least five times last year for incidents mostly relating to drinking and hazing. 
In 2013, UCF took a a drastic step in suspending all Greek Life organizations for several months after a spike in alcohol abuse and hazing, according to the Sentinel.
While on suspension, Delta Upsilon is not allowed to participate in events such as campus fundraisers or intramural sports.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, a pledge said he ran at 5 a.m. until he vomited and was pressured to go to the bar where one of the fraternity leaders worked to take shots even though he was underage.
The pledge also said he was harassed when he took a pledge manual test on the first chapter, according to the Sentinel.
The other incident involved two witnesses who saw five men in the parking lot at an apartment complex near Alafaya Trail on February 24 at 3:30 a.m., according to the Sentinel.
“The individuals were dancing and twirling the canes like something you would see majorettes do. It looked cool honestly until we saw the three guys being beaten after they dropped the canes,” one witness said in the report, according to the Orlando Sentinel. “If you ask me, they looked like just a bunch of bullies taking advantage of a few innocent students.”
The red and white canes have been affiliated with the Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity since the 1900s, according to the Sentinel.
“I did not approach the individuals as I should have, but I felt so bad afterward doing nothing,” the second witness said, according to the Orlando Sentinel. “I hope this report makes a difference.”
UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said the University is still investigating the allegations, according to the Sentinel.
Kappa Alpha Psi has been nationally suspended since 2008, Gilmartin said, according to the Sentinel. Gilmartin said the organization is fighting to get reinstated and that prior to its national suspension had been at UCF since 1984, according to the Sentinel.
Delta Upsilon has been at UCF since 1995 and currently has 42 active brothers this school year, according to the Sentinel.



On NFL Now, former NFL quarterback David Carr ranked UCF alumnus Blake Bortles as the best quarterback in the last three draft classes, among several others, with Bortles taking the podium over current NFL quarterbacks Marcus Mariota, Jameis Winston, Teddy Bridgewater, Carson Wentz, Jared Goff and Paxton Lynch.
At 35 touchdowns for the Jaguars last year, Bortles improved an additional fourteen touchdowns over his first year with the Jags, and improved fifteen hundred passing yards to 4,428 yards in the same frame of time. The former Knight football QB led UCF to the well-cherished Fiesta Bowl game against the Baylor Bears into the New Year after an 11-1 2013 regular season.
“He did a tremendous job spreading the football around, keeping his team in game – he turned the football over a little bit too much, but just showing the ability to stand in the pocket, make throws down the field, move when he had to, use his athleticism. He was very decisive with the ball and his ability to throw on the run – he has it all. He’s an easy choice for that slot,” Carr said.
The entire video of Carr breaking down his choice can be found on the Jacksonville Jaguars official site.



