The University of Central Florida Police Department has released the body camera footage of last Thursday night when a shooting occurred at The Marquee’s parking garage.
The following video shows the victim, later identified by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office as 19-year-old Joshua Howey, being rolled out in a stretcher.

According to the incident report, many witnesses received calls about the victim being shot, one call made by Howey himself.
The witnesses told the OCSO that when they arrived to Howey’s apartment, the victim was “sitting on the chair with a towel over the bloody gunshot wound,” and that Howey did not want to pay for an ambulance.
In this video released, one of the victim’s roommates explains the situation to OCSO.

During the night, cars were also not allowed to leave the complex and were told to wait outside of the garages until given permission to do so.

Howey is a student at Valencia College and is in stable condition.



Donald Trump is no stranger to controversy and headlines. Since entering the presidential run, Trump has been front and center in the media spotlight.
Trump most recently made headlines for his decision to not participate in the upcoming Republican debate hosted by the Fox News Network.
“Unlike the very stupid, highly incompetent people running our country into the ground, Mr. Trump knows when to walk away. Roger Ailes and FOX News think they can toy with him, but Mr. Trump doesn’t play games. There have already been six debates, and according to all online debate polls including Drudge, Slate, Time Magazine, and many others, Mr. Trump has won all of them, in particular the last one,” Trump’s official press release said.
Some conservative students here at the University of Central Florida are not happy about Trump’s decision.
“If he or any candidate for that matter can’t handle a moderator, how are we supposed to expect him to deal with the democrats in the big debates,” student Ricky Bohm said.
“I think Trump needs to take these things a little more serious if he’s planning on representing the Republican Party,” student Will Haas said.
“If he’s not willing to deal with a moderator because he believes they don’t like him, he’s going to lose votes because who knows what he will do when people are against him,” Haas continued.
In lieu of the debate on Thursday, Trump will hold an event to raise money for veterans.
“He will not be participating in the FOX News debate and will instead host an event in Iowa to raise money for the Veterans and Wounded Warriors, who have been treated so horribly by our all talk, no action politicians. Like running for office as an extremely successful person, this takes guts and it is the kind of mentality our country needs in order to Make America Great Again,” Trumps official press release said.
Knight News will be traveling to Iowa to cover the Iowa State Caucus. Be sure to check back for continued political coverage.



