The University of Central Florida faced some very tough questions from judges last Tuesday at the 5th District Court of Appeal in Daytona Beach regarding secrecy and university business. 
“I don’t understand that at all,” said Chief Judge Alan Lawson, after hearing UCF’s position that its Student Conduct Board is merely a fact-finding body that can have secret organizational hearings.

UCF attorney Jeff Kuntz argued that the conduct board is simply making a recommendation that is not binding in any way, but the judges repeatedly questioned his position, pointing out that UCF is powerless to punish an organization without first securing a finding of in violation from the Conduct Board.
“So it’s almost like a binding or presumptive finding,” Judge Lawson asked. “And then, if they disagree with a no violation finding, they can’t act, they have to send it back. They can send it back a lot of times, but they can’t just do what they want, correct?”
Whether a decision is made is important because Sunshine Law states meetings with decision making bodies must be open to the public.
UCF hides the name of any SGA budget committee member who “opts out” of public scrutiny
Knight News is not challenging UCF’s closure of individual student conduct hearings, for matters like cheating. Knight News is only challenging UCF’s closure of organizational hearings, such as fraternity hazing scandals, that would be public if UCF pursued the charges through a criminal court of law instead of its own secret justice system.
The lawsuit’s main contentions also include challenging the redaction of certain information, as well as the altogether withholding of documents by UCF that Knight News states to be public information. The university, however, claims the redactions made to documents to be private under the federal privacy law known as FERPA. 
FERPA, or the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, was enacted in 1974 in order to protect the privacy of student education records such as SAT scores, and grade point averages. UCF clearly states in its appellate brief, “The records at issue are ‘education records.'” Knight News argues that UCF is abusing FERPA by withholding information from records that do not qualify as “education records” under FERPA’s protection.

SECRET SPENDING, SGA BUSINESS
Information being withheld by UCF includes the names of the student-elected SGA members who are responsible for deciding how the university’s nearly $20 million dollar student fee budget is spent. Knight News states in its appellate reply brief that it should be noted that, “No appellate court has held that student government records are education records, and UCF has adduced no reason for this Court to be the first.”
If the court finds in favor of UCF, by stating that all SGA documents including student names indeed are education records falling under the protection of FERPA, it “would permit ridiculous results,” according to Knight News. 
For example, Knight News goes on to state that if UCF’s interpretation of FERPA stands, it would allow “a member of the Board of Trustees to conceal a controversial vote from minutes kept by UCF by simply enrolling in a college class.” 
If UCF wins, it would also have the power to conceal the names of officials facing impeachment. State law currently allows student officials to be removed from office via public referendum. However, if the court finds in favor of UCF’s argument that the names of these officials are, in fact, able to be redacted, “How could students vote to remove a malfeasant whose identity is a secret?” Knight News asks in its brief. 
If a student government officer committed a crime, like stealing an SGA laptop, that officer would face three different systems of justice. The official would face the criminal justice system and those records would be public. The student would also face UCF’s individual Student Conduct Board where the records would not be discussed publicly. But because the official chose to become a public servant, the official would also face a third process — SGA’s public impeachment process — to determine if he or she would be kicked out of SGA. 
When it comes to the separate SGA impeachment proceedings against individual SGA members, UCF allows SGA discipline to be decided in an open hearing, even though UCF argues the documents discussed in the public SGA meetings are private FERPA education records. 
UCF THREATENS KNIGHT NEWS
Knight News has received several threats from UCF’s lawyers throughout the entirety of this process. UCF even went as far as to make a motion which, if granted, would require Knight News to pay a crippling amount of fees to UCF as punishment for fighting them in court.
Knight News replied to UCF’s motion, stating that it is “substantively meritless” and is “at minimum UCF’s seventh written threat of sanctions against Knight News.” Knight News decided to continue its fight on behalf of the students for transparent government, despite UCF’s repeated threats of sanctions.
Both parties await the decision of this lawsuit to be made by the appellate judges. The decision is expected to be made within the upcoming weeks. Stay tuned to Knight News for continued coverage on this matter.



In the next year or two, Chabad at the University of Central Florida will have a newly designed community to call home, adjacent to the university. 
The Rabbi of Chabad at UCF, Chaim Lipskier, said the new facility will consist of a 3000+ square foot ballroom, library, student lounge, kosher kitchen and many other student amenities. 
“Our mission is to provide everything Jewish for students on campus,” Lipskier said. It will bring added diversity, culture and informational learning on new ideas.”
Chabad at UCF was established in October of 2006 to allow college students to participate in their heritage. There is an active Jewish student organization on campus known as Chabad Jewish Student Group that represents and is affiliated with Chabad at UCF. 
The new facility will address a solution to the main problem of the current location—too little space. 
“Students use to tell me that the current space is too tight or they have to miss an event because it’s going to be too packed and it’s not that comfortable,” he said. “It provides us with more room for us to grow and continue to serve the UCF community in a better way.”
Rachel Huss, freshman international global studies major, said she is looking forward to having Judaism become more accessible for the UCF student population. 
“I’m excited to see and meet more people as Chabad and the house expands,” she said. “The only thing lacking at the current location is adequate space for its growing population.” 
According to Lipskier, one of the main benefits of the new facility is its location on Alafaya Trail. The new center will be sandwiched between University House and Homewood Suites on the busy freeway, providing visibility compared to the current location. 
Lipskier said Chabad at UCF isn’t exclusively for Jewish students, it’s a place where all students from all walks of life can come to the events. 
“It’s a family on campus,” he said. “It’s a place where students can find a home away from home.” 
For more information about this project, sponsorship or dedication opportunities please visit jewishucf.com or call Rabbi  Lipskier at 407-310-8876.



A new semester is here and more college women are becoming interested in seeking the sisterhood of a lifetime.
UCF’s Panhellenic Spring Fling begins Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. and ends at 9:30 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom inside the Student Union. Some sororities will also be hosting recruitment events.
Potential new members will be able to meet sisters from all 12 chapters and it’s a great way to find out more about Greek life here at UCF, according to UCF Panhellenic.
Sororities around campus have been stepping up their social media presence over the last couple of months hoping to attract as many new members as possible during this year’s Spring Fling.
Holiday breaks are usually associated with heavy coats and winter chills, but thats not the case here at UCF.
Some sisters from Zeta Tau Alpha relaxed in their hometowns, soaking up the sun on the breezy Floridian beaches, others travelled to fascinating new parts of the globe, according to SororityLife.
The sisters even started their own hashtag on Instagram called #UCFZTAWinters to show off how they were spending their break.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
A lot of sororities use a social media site known as Tumblr to share pictures of what their sisterhood is like as well. For example, take a look at both the Tumblr pages belonging to Delta Delta Delta and Kappa Delta.
Women interested in rushing can visit the UCF Panhellenic site above to find out more about how to register and what to expect during recruitment.



The University of Central Florida cheerleading squad now has a lot more than black and gold to cheer about: winning second place at the College Cheerleading National Championships.
Make it 1️⃣1️⃣ straight top-4 finishes for @UCF_CheerTeam! Congrats on another stellar year!
#ChargeOn #UCAnationals pic.twitter.com/anD1QFkJex
— UCF Knights (@UCFKnights) January 18, 2016

The Knights took the runner-up spot to Kentucky cheer. This is the third consecutive year that the Knights won runner-up and the eleventh year in a row they have placed in the top four.
The #UCF senior class has a special place in Coach Gooch's ❤️

#ChargeOn #UCANationals pic.twitter.com/ycCztMcqwo
— UCF Cheerleaders (@UCF_CheerTeam) January 18, 2016

“I want to be sure and thank all of the UCF fans and alumni that showed up to support our team tonight,” head coach Linda Gooch said in a release. “In many ways, it was like a UCF Cheerleading family reunion because there were so many in the crowd.
Under Gooch, the UCF cheerleaders have placed in the Top 10 of the College Cheerleading National Championships a total of 21 times in the past 23 years, according to ucfknights.com.
College Cheerleading Championships – (1/17/15) – Images by UCF Knights
Photo courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



