Free admission and parking greet University of Central Florida Football fans for the 2016 season FanFest, along with player and coach autographs and a Black & Gold Cabana open house, among other activities.
The FanFest intends to offer a look at the team before the regular season kicks off at home with UCF vs. South Carolina State on September 3, 2016 at 7 p.m.
According to UCF Athletics, the activities offered will be:
At the event, all fans are invited to visit the Black & Gold Cabana on the East side of Bright House Networks Stadium. Cabana season ticket holders will receive complimentary 4Rivers at the cabana on game day, Saturday, September 3.
The FanFest takes place on Saturday, August 20 from 6-8 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium. Free parking will be located in Lot E6 on the Southeast side of the stadium. Admission will also be free.
UCF Athletics staff will be at the event to answer any questions fans may have on the gameday experience.
Knight News coverage of the UCF Football Media Day takes place on Wednesday beginning at 10:15 a.m.



Nothing brings people together more than free food.
This includes UCF Greek life, who will be gathering on August 27 for Greek Council’s “Chillin’ & Grillin”, which will be their first annual event.
The event, part of UCF’s Pegasus Palooza,  will showcase UCF’s Greek unity and welcome incoming freshman, or any other hungry member of the UCF community.
The event will include much more than just food however, such as music, games, inflatables, and much more. Guests of the event will also be privileged to a number of performers from the Greek community.
The four organizations with the most participation will receive a total of $1000 to donate to the charity of their choice.
The event will take place at Memory Mall from 12-5pm.
Further information and notifications can be found on the event’s Facebook page which can be visited in the link below.
https://www.facebook.com/events/605830429590294/?notif_t=plan_user_joined&notif_id=1471271126003449



College game day is less than a month away and UCF’s starting quarterback is still unknown. 
UCF’s quarterbacks coach Mario Verduczo chuckled when asked if Justin Holman is considered the No.1 quarterback, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
“I don’t know..,” said Verduczo. “That’ll be a Coach Frost decision.”
The UCF Football team currently has six quarterbacks on its roster. Justin Holman (Sr.), Nick Patti (Sr.), and McKenzie Milton (Fr.) are among the most notable. 
Holman has started the last two seasons and has seen majority of the snaps for the Knights, however, McKenzie Milton has the most experience having run a Frost Oregon-style offense before.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, head coach Scott Frost said on Friday that all starting positions are currently still open.
Check back to KnightNews.com for your UCF Football coverage.



