A little cheerleader was able to get into the spirit thanks to the Limbitless Solutions team from the University of Central Florida.
Ten-year-old Julianna Linton was missing her left arm above the elbow due to a congenital amputation caused by amniotic band syndrome.
Linton does competitive cheerleading and tumbled with one-handed cartwheels. She traveled to UCF with her family from Houston, Texas.
Linton is the fifteenth child to be gifted a 3-D printed arm from the team. The arms are free to families and community partners help deliver the bionics.
“We want children to know, especially girls, that there are no limits,” founder Albert Manero said in a press release. “We want them to dream big and then go after it. That’s really important. You can be smart, beautiful and strong and do it all here at UCF.”
The UCF cheerleading team helped deliver her arm. 
“They led Julianna on a campus tour that concluded at the College of Engineering and Computer Science, home to eight members of the cheerleading squad. Several of the cheerleaders are pursuing mechanical, civil, aerospace and computer science degrees,” the release stated.
Knightro delivered the arm in a box with two pom-poms.
“We are so honored to be part of this day,” head cheer coach Linda Gooch said in the release. “Limbitless Solutions is amazing and we couldn’t wait for today to see Julianna, show her a little bit of our school pride and have her share her talents with us. I can’t wait to get her out on the field.”
An exclusive cheer clinic for Linton was held in Bright House Networks Stadium after she got her arm where she did cartwheels and even a handstand.
“My favorite part was getting the arm today,” Linton said in the release. “I think It will help me with my cheering. I love to fly.”
“If there are 10,000 things someone with two arms can do, Julianna can already do 9,900,” Clark Linton said in the release. “We’ve always focused on what she can do, not what she can’t. I think this new arm will give her the opportunity to do even more. The technology is advancing so rapidly, Julianna has a chance to grow with the technology that may help her later on in life and won’t limit her career opportunities.”
Limbitless Solutions has taken off since they delivered their first arm in 2014, an Iron Man arm to Alex Pring. Over 500 families have applied for bionic arms.
“As a nonprofit we rely on the community to be able to continue our work,” Manero said in the release. “There is such a big need. We had no idea when we started what kind of need exists. We want to help as many children as possible so they can grow up and know there are no limits.”
Photo credit: Nick Russett



On March 16, the University of Central Florida’s School of Social work held a heart-wrenching refugee simulation camp on Memory Mall. Students and faculty had an opportunity to experience the life of a refugee.
“I thought it was really interesting, like eye opening to see the differences of what they have to deal with and what we have to deal with,” said Sydney Hill, a freshman biology major. “Seeing that they have to deal with that, it makes you want to do something about it.”
In the simulation, there was a registration area and you were given a back story, then participants got a small taste of what it is like to be in a refugee camp by going through a sheltered tent, food and water tent, a health tent and a stories tent.
Students were amazed of the struggles that refugees experience on a daily basis. The refugees are provided with very little amount of food, minimal health coverage and insufficient space to live.
“I thought it was pretty shocking,” said Michelle Cherubin, a freshman business major. “Just seeing everything and how real it is. They’re given so little, like how much more can we give them.”
In the stories tent, refugees that have experienced the trauma of a refugee camp told their story.
A 20-year-old refugee from the Republic of Tanzania, Heri-Wa Heri told his story through a translator.
“I don’t like telling my story because it makes me sad,” Heri said.
Heri was born in a Tanzania refugee camp and spent 19 years in the camp. He briefly shared a horrific story about getting stabbed multiple times at the camp.
“It is so timely,” said Coleen Cicale, an academic advisor in the school of social work. “We watch these things on the news right now, we hear things, and now we can actually literally put our feet in the shoes of these people.”
This event was created last spring in Mary Mann’s Immigrants and Refugees class, an instructor in the school of social work.  The students were supposed to participate in the event this spring along with the new class. Although the class was not offered this spring semester, the student’s passion for immigrant and refugee awareness drove them to continue with the event as planned.
“I want to dispel some of the myths around who is a refugee and what’s the criteria,” Mann said. “I want to educate and create advocacy. We want this to be the beginning of each year talking about refugees and immigrants.”



