In a surprise move, the Orlando Magic have officially acquired Thunder center/Power Forward Serge Ibaka from the Oklahoma City Thunder, according to Sportscenter.
In order to obtain Ibaka, the Orlando Magic have traded Victor Oladipo, Ersan Ilyasova and first-round draft pick Domantas Sabonis.
Ibaka averaged 12.6 points, 6.8 rebounds and 1.9 blocks per game last season.

Ibaka has not commented on the trade yet but Knight News will bring you continued coverage of the Orlando Magic this off season.



A Newtown police officer who was a first-responder during the Sandy Hook shooting stopped by Pulse nightclub to what is now a memorial for the 49 victims killed and 53 injured in the shooting on June 12.  
Christopher Vanghele, 46, an Operations Commander Lieutenant at the Newtown Police Department in Connecticut, was in town to speak at a police conference that was already planned leading up to the night of the Pulse tragedy. The subject of his talk: The mass shooting to which he responded in 2012. 
“When I knew I was flying into Orlando, I knew I wasn’t going to come here and speak without visiting this site, to pay my respects and to talk to fellow officers because I know what they are going through as first responders,” said Vanghele, who placed a Newtown Police patch atop growing piles of flowers. 
“Since Sandy Hook, there have been many shootings and it just seems as if it doesn’t stop,” said Vanghele. 
Vanghele took spent some time speaking with the officers guarding the site and accepted a patch from a brother in uniform.  
From an experience that no one would wish upon another person, Vanghele was able to offer advice to those first responders to the Pulse shooting. 
“There are no quick fixes. Definitely get help from experts, there is no shame in that. Rely on your family and friends, and forgive yourself,” said Vanghele. 
“Of course, it’s there every single day. Even when you turn on the news for Orlando. They are always going to make references from other events that have happened across the country,” said Vanghele when asked if the event at Sandy Hook still resonates with him. “So it’s almost an everyday issue, especially when they politicize it, whether it’s because it’s of religion, or if it’s gun rights or mental health issues, so it’s in the news every day and you can’t really escape it.”
Vanghele’s advice for Orlando? 
“Just lean on each other. I can tell you from my experiences that there was a lot of love, there wasn’t necessarily anger, there wasn’t anyone who was out there looking for blood. Everyone was out there to just be strong with one another. That’s what it has to be; you have to turn to your family and your faith in times like these,” said Vanghele.



The University of Central Florida rugby team will hold its annual Todd Miller 7’s rugby tournament in support of a Knight who became paralyzed after a match that took place in his first semester with the team.
Miller would line up with his teammates for a scrum, where players from both sides fight for the ball, looking to take possession in an otherwise normal game for his first semester with the team in 1991.
Both lines soon collapsed and the weight of the players fell on Miller’s neck, causing a break.
The then 22-year-old immediately became paralyzed from the chest down with control of his shoulders, biceps, and one wrist remaining. Despite the injury, Miller holds no fault to the game and has made a living in the twenty-five years since.
The annual tournament is a state-qualifier and year-over-year has raised money for both Miller through the Todd Miller Foundation and 2Lives Foundation, started by the Sotloff family. Miller has become a household name for rugby players at UCF and at other universities – the 1991 UCF rugby coach, Kevin Lindsey, attends the tournament and speaks fondly to the bond the players have shared between each other and to teammates that played in other years.
In the 2015 Todd Miller 7’s tournament 30 teams came to Central Florida to participate, taking place at the same time when UCF sought its third-straight national title.
“It really shows the heart of the rugby player,” Miller said to the Orlando Sentinel.
The 25th annual Todd Miller 7’s tournament will be held at the National Training Center in Clermont, just west of Downtown Orlando on Saturday at 10 a.m. It is expected to the event’s biggest turnout yet.
UCF rugby’s tournament Facebook page.



