An undisclosed number of UCF students have had their bank information hacked into over the last month after using their credit and debit cards on campus. 
Knight News reached out to several of these students who had experienced the issue and received comments pertaining to where they last used their card and why they believe the cards were compromised on campus.
UCF student Sarah Cook said, “On this past Friday, September 23rd, I received a call from my bank stating that they noticed a suspicion purchase attempt (that was declined) that they wanted to confirm to be sure it was me since I usually never charge large amounts to my card. They told me it was a $455 purchase on sunglasses hut, I then told them it was definitely not me so they canceled my card and are now sending me a new one.”
Sarah said that her last purchase before her card was hacked was two days before at the Huey Magoos on campus inside the student union.
Another student, Ariana Fontenot said, “My card was recently compromised. I only use it at Einsteins in the business administration building on campus every Thursday, and the fraudulent charges began on Thursday, Sept 22nd.”
“On Friday August 27th I had used my card for just over $2 at the Dunkin Donuts by the arena after not using it for a week and the following Monday I had received a call from the fraud department saying there had been two charges on my card,” said UCF student Kierstie Becker.
There have been several posts from concerned parents on the UCF Parents Facebook page as well.
This all comes after UCF was a victim to a massive data breach where over 63,000 social security numbers from past and present students and faculty were hacked into.
Knight News reached out to the University of Central Florida Police Department about the recent credit and debit card hacks and was told that if students experience anything similar to these scams, that they should contact UCFPD.
“Most importantly, we ask that people report these types of incidents to law enforcement. Anecdotally, we’re aware of the Facebook posts but have not received many formal reports,” said UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin.
UCFPD said that students should also use these tips to keep their bank information safe.
-Use smart judgement. If something sounds too good or too ridiculous to be true, it probably is.
-Remember that legitimate job offers, housing arrangements, scholarships, etc. do not typically require you to wire money in advance.
-Protect your credit and debit cards and banking information. Immediately cancel any card that goes missing and regularly monitor your accounts.
UCFPD encourages students and parents who have questions about these types of scams to call 407-823-3224.



It was everything it was expected to be.
It didn’t take long for the first Presidential Debate to get heated, as Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump took the stage for what has been a long-anticipated battle.

The first debate took place at Hofstra University in New York, and was broadcast commercial-free across most major networks.
The two remaining candidates clashed over a number of issued in the first debate, including the economy, and national security.
Both candidates proved to be heavy hitters and after months of smear campaigns, voters were finally able to see that on stage.
Trump came hard after Clinton, slamming her for her extensively-publisized email scandals. But Clinton fired back, attacking Trump for what she claimed to be poor business ethics and failure to release his tax returns.
Knight News camped out with College of Democrats for their debate watch party, and were able to talk to them about their reactions from Monday’s debate.
The next debate will take place on October 9, at Washington University in St. Louis.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued political coverage.



