The University of Central Florida has decided to let go of men’s basketball head coach Donnie Jones following Thursday night’s 65-63 loss to Tulane, according to a press release emailed by UCF Athletics.
“After a great deal of thought and deliberation, we have determined that a change in leadership for our men’s basketball program is necessary,” UCF Athletic Director Danny White said in a statement.
“Donnie and his staff have been dedicated to ensuring our student-athletes become successful young men, and we are grateful for their hard work and dedication to UCF, our students and the entire Knight community over the past six years. However, our athletics department, university and community expect our men’s basketball program to compete for American Athletic Conference titles and make regular postseason appearances, and unfortunately, we have not reached those expectations.”
After Jones’ 100-88 record and six years with the Division I program at the university, White sealed the decision immediately after the first round result of the tournament.
“I’d like to thank Dr. Hitt and the UCF community for all their support,” Jones said in the press release. “I’m extremely grateful for the young men I had a chance to learn from and help reach their dreams during my time at UCF.”
The nationwide search for a new men’s basketball head coach begins immediately, according to the release.
Central Florida has parted ways with Donnie Jones, sources told ESPN.
— Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) March 11, 2016

“We’re going to move quickly to find the right coach to lead our program and bring championships to UCF,” White concluded.
“We don’t have a set timeline but we’re going to be thorough and ensure we have the right person to lead our student-athletes. I’d like to thank Donnie and his wife Michelle for their many positive contributions to UCF.”



University of Central Florida Student Government Senator and current SGA presidential candidate Jacob Milich filed a lawsuit today alleging that his first amendment rights were violated.
The elections commission is trying to get Milich kicked off the ballot for announcing his candidacy for SGA President before a specific announcement date that UCF set in place, according to the lawsuit.
The lawsuit names the UCF Board of Trustees, the UCF Student Government Association, current SGA President Caitlyn Zona, Supervisor of Elections Whitney Barnes, and Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, Vice President of Student Affairs for UCF.
Milich is also stating that the commission broke the sunshine law and that he was unlawfully convicted in a private meeting, for what he believes was constitutionally protected political speech.
The SGA election commission is planning to have a formal hearing on Wednesday in which they will try to remove Milich from that ballot, according to the lawsuit.
Milich is asking the court for an emergency injunction to stop the commission from punishing him for his speech without having a hearing in court, because it would be tough to gather everyone in court because of spring break.
Knight News has reached out to both Jacob Milich and Cait Zona for comments on the matter and is waiting to hear back.
Check back to Knight News for continued updates on this SGA first amendment lawsuit.



ORLANDO, Fla. – The UCF Knights were eliminated by Tulane 65-63 in the first round of the AAC Tournament at the Amway Center on Thursday night.
“We got ourselves back in the game [in the second half] and put ourselves in situations down the stretch there,” UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones said. “We got up five, but you have to finish the game. Give Tulane credit, they battled back and made the plays down the stretch and unfortunately we fell short.”
Redshirt junior Matt Williams got off to a hot start and scored UCF’s first 5 points of the game while the Tulane Green Wave had to wait nearly three minutes to get their first basket. However, the Knights were forced to go a different direction when Williams got into early foul trouble and had to take a seat.
After jumping out to an early lead, UCF went on a five minute scoring drought and relinquished the lead to Tulane. UCF’s shooting woes has caused them troubles all season long and they weren’t able to get back on track before the Green Wave could jump out to a five-point lead.
The Knights shot just 25 percent in the first half and had a dangerously high amount of fouls (8) and turnovers (13). Meanwhile, Tulane muscled their way to 20 points in the paint and maintained a 29-21 lead heading into halftime.
“I think turnovers and bad shots kind of hurt us the whole game,” Davis said. “We were just rushed a little bit. When we slowed down and just played basketball we had some great looks.
As the first half wore on, it seemed as though the Knights energy dwindled with every missed shot or turnover. That confidence was restored quickly though as UCF came out firing on all cylinders with a 12-4 run to knot the game back up at 33.
The Green Wave weren’t out of it for long though with guards Von Julien and Louis Dabney keeping them in the game.
“They’re a together group and they play really hard,” Tulane Head Coach Ed Conroy said. “They have some deficiencies, but they keep on plugging along and I thought they showed great resilience in the second half.”
Redshirt sophomore AJ Davis joined Henriquez and flipped the switch in the second half, finishing with 20 points, 9 rebounds and 4 assists. Davis led the team on an 8-0 run in a two minute span and the Knights were able to establish a 53-49 lead. Sophomore Adonys Henriquez was also a major factor coming out of halftime as he scored 12 of his 15 points in the second half.
The back-and-forth was not over as Cameron Reynolds nailed a 3-pointer to cap off an 8-0 run for Tulane which put them back out in front by a basket. A missed shot from long range by Henriquez was followed up by an and-one basket for Tulane’s Mevin Frazier which put the nail in the coffin for the Knights tourney hopes.
“I think our shot selection the last 4 to 5 minutes, we just took some shots that we shouldn’t have rushed,” Henriquez said.
The 2015-16 season was a roller coaster for the Knights and their offensive struggles need to be solved if the team hopes to right the ship next season. Luckily for the Black and Gold, BJ Taylor will be a full go for the start of next season and his presence alone could change the entire dynamic of the team. The Knights will have to find their offensive identity one way or another or they will likely suffer the same fate as the past two seasons, a first-round exit.



