Donald Trump is coming to The University of Central Florida on March 5th. The event will be taking place at the CFE arena at 12 pm, doors will open at 9 am.
Students can get their free admission tickets on Trump’s website.
The leading presidential candidate for the Republican Party has drawn huge crowds everywhere he’s gone on the campaign trail.
Recently Trumps was at the University of South Florida where trump supporters filled the USF Sun Dome to the max capacity.
Students on both sides of the political aisle are thrilled that trump is coming.
“I’m excited, but I’m not worried about him being president, because I’m extremely confident that Hillary will wipe the floor with him,” Knights for Hillary President Jesse Rubens said. “I’m excited to have the Trump rally experience.”
Trump supporter Josh Kravitz said, “On a scale of 1 to 10, the number is too large to put on paper.” 
Kravitz continued, “Trump’s expertise and commitment to excellence is exactly what the country needs. He represents what it means to be on the top and keeps climbing and serves as a role model for the American people.”
Knight news will be bringing the students of UCF complete coverage of the Trump rally. Check back for continued updates.
Written by: Kyle Swenson and Divina Rayos



Every year students from the University of Central Florida get the chance to head down to Universal to visit the theme park through a program called Universal Knights, which is funded by the Student Government Association.
This year, the event will be taking place on April 17 and will be held at Universal Studios instead of Islands of Adventure. 
““We decided to go with Universal Studios to give students the full theme park experience. Islands of Adventure is under some construction and remodeling while Universal Studios recently opened the Gringotts Ride and the Harry Potter expansion, which many students are excited for,” said Gulreen Kassoo, SGA’s Director of Campus Life. “This way students can experience both Universal parks during their time at UCF.”
Students may enter the park starting at 4 p.m. and stay until 1 a.m., according to a press release sent out by SGA.
Tickets for the event will be distributed on campus on the following dates. 
Monday, April 4: 2 p.m.
Wednesday, April 6: 6 p.m.
Thursday, April 7: 8 a.m.
Saturday, April 9: 12 p.m.
Tuesday, April 12: 10 a.m.
Ticket distribution will be at the CFE Arena on all dates listed above except for April 9. On that day, tickets will be given out at the John T. Washington Center.



