The Iowa state Caucus took place on Feb. 1. 
The people of Iowa went out to their caucus locations and made their voices heard about who they want to be the next Republican and Democratic Presidential nominees. The people of Iowa chose Senator Ted Cruz to be their presidential nominee after he received 28% of Republican Caucus goer’s votes, Cruz beat businessman Donald Trump by nearly 3.4%.
Iowa is a very important state in the American political system because it sets the tone for the entire race. 
However the winner of Iowa does not traditionally do well after the Iowa state Caucus.
“Iowa has a bad track record when it comes to influencing who will be the Republican Party’s presidential nominee. When the races are contested, the winner of the GOP Iowa caucuses usually does not win the second nominating contest, the New Hampshire primaries, and more often than not loses the overall nomination as well,” CBS News reporter Monika McDermott wrote in 2012.
“In the five contested races over the past quarter century (1980, 1988, 1996, 2000 and 2008), the eventual party nominee won the Iowa caucuses twice: Kansas Senator Bob Dole in 1996 and Texas Governor George W. Bush in 2000. In the three other years the winners were Vice President George H.W. Bush in 1980 (eight years prior to his eventual nomination in 1988), Bob Dole in 1988 (again eight years in advance of his success) and former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee in 2008,” McDermott continued.
Only time will tell whether or not Ted Cruz will become the Republican parties presidential nominee. The New Hampshire Primary is on February.
Knight News was at Ted Cruz’s Caucus victory watch party to get reactions on Cruz’s win from his supporters.

The New Hampshire Primary is on Feb. 9, be sure to check in with KnightNews.com for continued political coverage.



The UCF Police Department has named its top cops for 2015, including the first woman recipient of Officer of the Year.
Detective Amber Abud, a member of the police department’s criminal investigations division, was named 2015 Officer of the Year in an awards ceremony Thursday at the Fairwinds Alumni Center.
“I didn’t know I was the first-ever UCF female officer of the year, so I’m surprised, but very honored,” Abud said. “Women are underrepresented in law enforcement, but I never let that hold me back.”
UCF Police Chief Richard Beary said Abud is one of his most dedicated investigators, helping the 71-officer department reduce crime by 23 percent over the past year.
“She is an incredibly smart investigator and approaches every case with a well-thought-out strategy,” Beary said. “She has been assigned to almost every severe or high-profile crime we’ve investigated last year.”
Beary said Abud’s dedication to her duties directly influenced the award selection panel’s decision.
“We focus on capability, not color of skin or gender,” he said. “What’s important is character. The people we select for awards are the future of this organization.”
During the ceremony, UCF police recognized 22 awardees and promoted five officers. Ten were women.
“These women are paving the way for me,” Victoria Scott, a community service officer, said. “My dad was a police officer and never once told me I shouldn’t serve in law enforcement due to my gender.”
Scott was named Community Service Officer of the Year and is scheduled to begin UCF Police Academy Monday.
Officer Joel Witherspoon, who was one of seven Officer of the Year nominees, said Abud is well-deserving of the award.
“She is an extremely hard worker, a talented investigator, and very thorough,” he said.
Abud became a UCF police officer in 2006. She said she has experienced the highs and lows of working in law enforcement while raising two children with her husband.
“Being a woman in a male-dominated field can hold some women back, but it’s really just about doing your job and doing it right,” Abud said. “I’m proud to be an example of that.”



