The University of Central Florida Board of Trustees approved a new course of study for the College of Engineering and Computer Science – biomedical engineering.
The master’s degree in biomedical engineering will become available to students in the fall of 2016 who are interested in surgical and cancer treatment planning, engineering-based simulation in cardiovascular disease and treatment, development of devices for improved and novel diagnosis, image guided surgery and surgical robotics, and development of assistive and rehabilitative technology, according to the university.
Academic bonds between the College of Engineering and Computer Science and the College of Medicine led to the discipline while the new program took its first steps after a faculty collaboration in 2013 involving other colleges.
Bioengineering takes the title of one of the fastest growing careers in the United States at 27% – according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics – as well as a competitive pay at approximately 77 thousand dollars per year.
“The new degree strengthens UCF’s role as a leading metropolitan partnership university engaged in pivotal disciplines with wide-ranging applications and major societal impact,” Michael Georgiopoulos, the dean of the College of Engineering and Computer Science, said on the new addition. “We expect our master’s degree in biomedical engineering will attract top-performing student researchers who seek to build their careers in a burgeoning field as they work alongside renowned faculty in multiple UCF college and units.”
Dr. Alain Kassab heads the program, which will consist of 30 graduate credit hours in three available tracks: biofluids, biomechanics, or bioengineering for the M.D. program. Two year completion has been referenced by UCF for the biofluids and biomechanical tracks, with the M.D. track at a five year completion.
Fifteen students are expected to take up on the degree in the fall, and 34 students per class after five years, according to the university.



University of Central Florida Student Government Senator and former presidential candidate Jacob Milich has put forth a settlement offer in his lawsuit with UCF.
The settlement offer states the following:
“As for the terms of the offer, my client requests that all candidates, including himself, be allowed to remain on the ballot so that the students can vote on who their next student body president will be. In return, my client will dismiss his lawsuit with prejudice.”
“In addition to the dismissal, my client will not seek contribution from the university or any other party for attorney’s fees/costs and proposes that each party be responsible for the attorney’s fees/costs that each has incurred.”
Milich’s attorney said in the letter that his client “believes this result would be best for the UCF community.”
The offer will only be available until 4:30 p.m. Friday.
Knight News reached out to current SGA President Cait Zona for comment, who said, “I have no comment on pending litigation.”



