Finals week is here.
Classes for the 2016 fall semester are finished and that means one thing… finals. Anxiety will be at an all time high as students will spend hours studying for their final exams.
But before you break down, take a look at some of the resources UCF is offering this week to help you be successful.
The Student Union: As of December 3 the Student Union will be open for 24 hours, providing students with a place to study. The Union will also offer review sessions with tutors from the Student Academic Research Center, or SARC. The review sessions will also be streamed online via SARC’s youtube channel for those who wish to view them.
The Recreation and Wellness Center: For those students who prefer to unwind via exercise, UCF’s RWC will be offering a number of group exercise classes that students can participate in.
Safe Rides: Nervous about walking through campus after dark? UCFPD is offering its Safe Escort Patrol Service, or SEPS. SEPS will give students free rides or walking escorts from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. All students need to do to take advantage of this service is call 407-823-2424 and SEPS will come to you anywhere on campus.
Call Home: Don’t forget to call home! UCF encourages students to reach out to their families for support during the stress of finals week. The university will also be holding an event inside the Student Union on Tuesday where students will be able to gather and write encouraging messages to each other, as well as take a written message of encouragement with them.
Coffee with a Cop: Need a morning boost? Stop by the Student Union on Tuesday to have a cup of joe with some of UCF’s finest. Officers will be located at Café Bustelo from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. giving out free coffee and friendly conversation.
UCF will be holding a number of events throughout the week inside the Student Union that students can attend to unwind. Check out their Facebook hyperlinked at the bottom of the article for more information on these events.
Knight News wishes all students good luck on their final exams!
https://www.facebook.com/events/1259410837464567/



ORLANDO – The UCF Knights are staying home for the holidays, officially playing in the AutoNation Cure Bowl at Camping World Stadium on Saturday, December 17th against Arkansas State at 5:30 p.m.
It is an early Christmas present for Knights’ fans, who had been left to fathom possible scenarios of post-season play either out of town or in a time slot that fit very few traveling schedules. Here is a look at the other bowls that UCF had been considered a favorite for:
Miami Beach Bowl – Monday, December 19 2:30 PM
Marmot Boca Raton Bowl – Tuesday, December 20 7:00 PM
Popeye’s Bahamas Bowl – Friday, December 23 1:00 PM
St. Petersburg Bowl – Monday, December 26 11:00 AM
Not one of the four games are played in prime time, and the only “weekend” game is scheduled for a Friday afternoon in another country; not exactly fan friendly. The Boca Raton Bowl stands alone with a decent kickoff time, but an opponent from the MAC does not bring much gravitas to the situation.
Rather, UCF will take advantage of a true home-field advantage in possession of overwhelming fan support, almost non-existent travel fatigue and an early evening kickoff time. It was said for most of the season that if the Knights were to finish in the 5-7 win range that the Cure Bowl would be a dream situation for both the game officials and a university building an entire new football brand identity.
Every party involved will benefit from UCF’s bowl presence in their own backyard. The American Athletic Conference will be able to tout substantial attendance numbers (or at least better than anywhere else UCF could have been assigned), the broadcast will be able to showcase a game that holds intrinsic meaning to the home crowd, and the University will be able to sell their allotted tickets while keeping travel costs low.



