ORLANDO, Fla. – Despite a herculean effort from Justin McBride, the Shaq Goodwin-led Memphis Tigers handed the UCF Knights’ their first conference loss at home on Tuesday.
“Shaq was playing really well tonight, he’s a very good player and we had a hard time stopping him,” UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones said. “We scored enough to win the game tonight. Shot 52 percent from the field, but it wasn’t enough with the way those guys had some very good individual performances.”
Memphis’ senior forward Shaq Goodwin seized control of the game early on, pushing the Tigers out in front with a career-high 35 points to go with 9 rebounds and 6 assists. The Knights had a hard time finding a defensive matchup that worked against the athletic forward between Tacko Fall, Justin McBride and Staphon Blair.
Imposing their will inside, the Tigers began to find holes in the Knights atypically stingy 2-3 zone and wound up shooting a blistering 52.2 percent from long range in the game.
“I think we were trying to stop inside, Shaq was really getting it going you know,” redshirt sophomore AJ Davis said. “So we tried to contain him on the inside and he did a good job of kicking it out and they knocked down some shots.”
However, in the second half, UCF came out firing on all cylinders and pushed their 14-point deficit to just 6 points within the first couple minutes.
Justin McBride was integral to the Knight’s comeback effort against Memphis as he led the team with 20 points in the game, but it wasn’t enough to reel in the sharpshooting Tigers. The junior center played the majority of the second half as freshman Tacko Fall had a hard time stopping Shaq Goodwin.
“Come out the second half and you just sell out, you give everything that you have,” McBride said. “We did that in the beginning, but our mistakes kind of caught up with us. So we eliminated those and came out in the second half and hit some shots and we went inside and things were flowing.”
Tigers’ guards Ricky Tarrant Jr. and Avery Woodson combined for 9 of Memphis’ 12 3-pointers made in the game. Heading into the game, the Tigers were shooting just 30.2 percent from the 3-point line on the season, but their lights out performance against the Knights clearly made the difference on Tuesday night.
“I felt Shaq’s energy really opened things up and I felt Avery Woodson hitting some three’s and Ricky Tarrant hitting a couple of those threes allowed Shaq to open up more in the center as well too,” Memphis Head Coach Josh Pastner said.
The Knights will look to bounce back this coming Sunday at home against the UConn Huskies who boast a 14-5 record thus far this season and are currently riding a 3-game win streak.



The Florida State University has agreed to pay Erika Kinsmen $950,000 in order to settle a federal Title IX lawsuit. Kinsmen said she was raped by former FSU quarterback Jameis Winston in 2012, according to USA Today.
The announcement was on Monday, over a year after she initially filed the complaint in federal court. 
The amount that includes attorney’s fees – as well as make a five-year commitment to awareness, prevention and training programs. The lump sum is the largest settlement for Title IX claims regarding indifference to a student’s reported sexual assault, according to USA Today.
“I will always be disappointed that I had to leave the school I dreamed of attending since I was little,” Kinsmen said. “I am happy that FSU has committed to continue making changes in order to ensure a safer environment for all students.”
The settlement does not affect an ongoing Title IX investigation by the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights, according to USA Today. Kinsmen filed a complaint with that department in 2014.
Kinsmen left FSU in November 2013 after the case became public. She argued that continued harassment denied her of her educational opportunities under Title IX, according to USA Today.
Kinsmen alleged then that Winston raped her in his apartment after they had met at Potbelly’s, a bar near campus, according to USA Today.
Winston was not found guilty of sexual misconduct after a FSU student conduct hearing in December 2014. 
Winston was the No. 1 pick in the 2015 NFL draft in April and is the quarterback of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers currently.
Kinsmen is set to graduate from another 4 year university this spring. She sued Winston last April and Winston countersued. That case is pending in U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, according to USA Today.



The University of Central Florida Downtown campus received another contribution this week, this one exceeding $1 million. 
The gift came from the personal accounts of President John C. Hitt and trustee Alex Martins. Other contributors were UCF leaders such as deans, alumnus and vice presidents.
This comes after the donation of millions of dollars earlier in the year; which totaled to about $81.5 million by UCF’s partners such as the Orlando magic, CFE Federal Credit Union and the Orange County Commissioners.
Valencia college would share the new campus with UCF, and serves as a place for students to enroll in a broad range of classes, from medical to culinary courses. The campus, being in the heart of downtown, would also allow students the luxury of being walking distance from multiple job and internship opportunities. 
The University plans to fund the campus with another $20 million dollars, and is asking the state for an additional $20 million in order to complete the project.
If all goes as planned, expect to see the second largest school in the nation, grow even larger by the Fall of 2018.



A man with a typewriter has been seen recently here at the University of Central Florida sharing his words with anyone who passes him. His name is Paul Felker, known to some as the poet of Park Ave. 
Felker writes impromptu poems to the people at UCF and makes their day a little bit brighter. 

The unique idea behind Felker’s poems is that the recipient of the poem can chose anyone, anything, or anywhere and he will write about it on the spot.
Felker didn’t always write poems, he worked previously as an engineer but chose to follow his dreams and write poetry instead. Here is a excerpt from his work:
 
Felker will be back on the bridge by the Student Union this week writing poems free of charge for students.
If you’d like to follow Felker on Instagram, check him out @Paulspoems.

Photo credit: Simone Tamburi
Video credit: Divina Rayos



