The Knight News Political team is in Cleveland for the Republican National Convention. 
These conventions have historically been used as a coming together opportunity for the party. After a hard fought primary season, Donald Trump will need to unite the party behind him. 
According to the Republican Convention, this year’s convention will be broken down into four Daily themes, one for each day of the convention.  These themes dive deeper into what Trumps Slogan, “ Make America Great Again” is about.
Monday’s theme was “ Make America Safe Again,” and featured speakers as Melania Trump, General Michael Flynn, Iowa Senator Joni Ernst, Jason Beardsley and Montana Representative Ryan Zinke.
Tuesday is “Make America Work Again,” with guest speakers including Donald Trump Jr., West Virginia Senator Shelby Moore Capito, Ben Carson and Kimberlin Brown. 
Wednesday’s will be “Make America First again,” featuring Lynne Patton, Eric Trump, Newt Gingrich, and Trumps Vice Presidential choice Indiana Governor Mike Pence.
Thursday will wrap up with “Make America One Again,” featuring Peter Thiel, Tom Barrack, Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump.
Many others are also scheduled to speak throughout the convention. 
Knight News will bring you coverage of all the aspect of the Republican National Convention. Check back all this week.




As the Republican Party kicked off its National Convention in Cleveland, several hundred protestors marched toward the Quicken Loans arena. 
These protesters were from many different walks of life but all had one thing in common: they do not support the Republican Party nominee, Donald Trump.
As the protestors marched, Cleveland Police stood guard on each side of the crowd to ensure the protest remained peaceful.
The march continued onlookers and watched; some even joined in. 
Here’s video of one of the earlier protests:

The massive crowd caused some traffic issues as they went street-to-street all around Cleveland. After an hour, the protest ended at a war memorial downtown where organizers reiterated their cause and told supporters to continue protesting Trump. 
From what Knight News saw, the protest was peaceful and nothing got out of hand.
Knight News will continue to bring you coverage of the Republican National Convention all week. Check back for updates.



The support for Donald Trump was not unanimous during day one of the RNC.
On Monday the Republican National Convention kicked off in Cleveland, Ohio at the Quicken Loans Arena, home of the 2016 Champion Cavaliers.
The festivities kicked off at around 1 pm, beginning with several young speakers of the Republican Party such as Chairman of the College RNC Alexandra Smith and founder of Turning Point USA Charlie Kirk. The speakers promoted millennials within the party, and claimed the Republican Party to be the party of youth and Diversity. 
The most exciting part of the day however came after, where several GOP delegates declared a motion for a roll call vote, which would require each and every delegate to verbally declare who they were voting for.
This was done in an attempt to contest Trump as the GOP nominee after the committee tried to pass a motion that would forego such a vote, and grant Trump with the nomination uncontested. 
Nine states originally backed the motion for the voice vote, which would surpass the 7 state requirement to pass such a motion. But after short deliberation, 3 states removed their support for the motion and the Committee was able to quell the rebellion.
In the second half of day one several notable speakers such as former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Melania Trump made speeches before the Cleveland congregation. Giuliani’s speech in particular sparked energy into the crowd. 
The evening concluded with Donald Trump making an unexpected appearance at the RNC to introduce his wife Melania to the stage. Trump was not expected to speak before the delegates until Thursday. 
That concludes the highlights of Day 1 of the RNC – stay tuned to Knight News for continued updates. 



