There’s no doubt Trump has offended many groups this election season; this time it’s not a religious or ethnic group, its Clowns! Many people call the Republican nominee a clown and many other names but a group of actual Clowns going by the name Not Funny Cleveland is completely against what they are calling “inappropriate appropriation” of the term “clown” in regards to Donald Trump.
“We are a group of art and cultural workers, clowns who are here at the RNC to protest the Inappropriate appropriation of term clown and other forms of circus to the patently dangerous and anti-social platform of Donald J Trump,” Group spokeswoman Cathleen O’Malley said. 
“Donald Trump is not funny nor is he cute. And nobody’s laughing.” O’Malley continued.
When asked what is a clown supposed to be, O’Malley explained, “If you go back to the origins of clowning a clown is supposed to be a proxy for humanity, clowns are vulnerable and represent humanity.
During the Not Funny Cleveland performance, they poked fun at the Donald singing their own original songs. 
During the performance, passerby’s were fascinated with the group and everyone was having a good laugh.
“It’s good for us, it’s good for us here, I’m not for or against anybody I just want to give everyone a chance this election,” bystander K.B Hawthorn said.
PHoto/Video Credit Divina Rayos



Protesters up the ante July 20 by burning a flag in front of the secure perimeter by the Quicken Loans Arena.  According to witnesses, the protesters burned the flag, resulting in the police swarming them and arresting 5 individuals.
“All I know is they burned the flag and before they even got it they put it out,” protestor Hasheem Hill of Cleveland, Ohio said.
“The police arrested 5 people, after that I don’t know cause a whole bunch of reporters got in my way. All I know is 5 people got arrested and I saw the flag,” Hill continued.
After the flag burning police worked to regain control of the area outside Quicken Loans Arena. As officers did this, protestors began to leave the area and regroup down the street. During this time a protestor handed me a piece of paper, which gave insight about who the group is and what their goals are.
 “Time To Get Organized for an ACTUAL Revolution,” said a message from the Central Committee of the Revolutionary Communist Party, USA.
“The Revolutionary Communist Party is organizing now to overthrow this system at the soonest possible time. Preparing to lead an actual revolution to bring about a radically new and better society: the New Socialist Republic in North America, the message continued.”
After the protest came to an end I spoke with Vermin Supreme, an American performance artist and activist who is running for president this year.
“Burning the Flag is constitutionally protected free speech, as affirmed by the Supreme Court in Texas vs. Johnson,” Supreme explained.
When asked if police could stop people from burning the flag in public because its dangerous Supreme said, “ There’s not a lot of danger in that. It’s Symbolic. And sometimes a symbolic act takes a little bit of fire. But I’m not saying you should burn anything down. “ 
Knight News will continue to bring you updates here from Cleveland Ohio from the Republican National Convention.



After a near half-century of University of Central Florida news reporting, the Central Florida Future has made the decision to cease publication.
Run by students and alumni, the Gannett-owned newspaper has built a weekly circulation of 14,000, catering to students, faculty, and visitors on campus. From sports to breaking news to grand openings and university achievements, the Future has provided coverage spanning 48 years.

The decision by Gannett comes from changes in focus as the company moves forward. All full-time employees will be moved to FLORIDA Today.
“The recent investments Gannett has been making to build out the USA TODAY Network nationally and in the state of Florida have created new demands for our time and attention,” said Jeff Kiel, Gannett’s regional president, according to the Central Florida Future.
“We’re appreciative of the relationship with the University of Central Florida,” Kiel stated. “We hope to find new ways to continue to work with student journalists from the university.”
The Future will run its last print on August 4th to campus-goers.



“Make America First Again” was the theme surrounding day three of the Republican National Convention. But it was Ted Cruz that everyone Was talking about at the end of the day. 
On Wednesday, protesters lined outside the Quicken Loans Arena early to protest the biggest day of the convention yet. 
Starting at 11 a.m., protesters were outside the arena chanting “Wall off Trump” and attempted to prevent people from entering the perimeter of the arena.
However it was Ted Cruz, Texas Senator and GOP primary runner-up, who delivered the largest slight of the evening.
Cruz took the stage and started off strong in his speech, as he touched on topics of freedom, and the slain Dallas Police officers. The crowd listened intently awaiting Cruz’s endorsement of Trump, which would have seemed to be the final step in unifying the party.
But as he speech went on, with still no endorsement, the crowd began to get restless. Many audience members began cat calling Cruz, shouting “endorse him”, and small burst of chants encouraging him to do so were intermittent throughout his speech.
“Vote your conscience” was the most Cruz could utter out of his mouth before concluding his speech.
Cruz then retreated off of the state to loud boos after failing to endorse the nominee.
Newt Gingrich took the stage and attempted to smooth out the slight with the audience, but it appeared the damage had been done. 
The evening concluded with a speech from VP nominee Mike Pence, that electrified the crowd and sent everyone home with anticipation for day 4 where Donald Trump will finally speak at the convention.
Stay tuned with Knight News for continued Republican National Convention coverage.



