Story written by Kayla Bundle
“Drivers Start Your Engines,” the engines begin to roar and the field of sports cars start to battle for the win on the 2.5-mile Belle Isle course. These professional drivers are aware of the risk on track, but a cell phone is never one of them.
According to distraction.gov, distracted driving took over three thousand lives in 2014 alone, and “Forty percent of teens say that they’ve been in a car when a driver used a cell phone that ‘put people in danger’”.
The 20-year-old Mazda Prototype driver Tristan Nunez founded the ‘dnt txt n drv’ foundation to raise awareness about the dangers of distracted driving.

“After a close call that I had when I was 15 years old with my own mother she was texting at the wheel while I was in the passenger’s seat…it was something that really hit home to me how easy it is to pick up the phone when your driving on the streets,” Nunez said.
Nunez then made it his mission to spread the word to students and parents around the country through safety fairs.
“We go with the racing… and speak to a couple schools and do some tours while I am home in the off season.”
He encourages that drivers not use their phones while on the road because it can be the difference between life and death.
“All of your focus should be on the road just like in a race car. If we slip up for one second, that’s us in a wall.  Same thing on the street – if you slip up for one second focusing on something else, it could be your life,” Nunez said.
Nunez understands that raising awareness isn’t something he can do on his own.
“It is not just me out there that can make a change, it’s every peer that can make a difference and spread the word,” Nunez said.
The Mazda Prototype #55 team had its first podium of the season on Belle Isle and will be competing again June 30th-July 3rd at historic Watkins Glen International.



Knight News has joined a group of local and national media outlets–including the Orlando Sentinel, Associated Press and New York Times–in a lawsuit against the City of Orlando related to the release of 911 calls made during the Pulse shooting.
After the tragic massacre that left 49 victims dead and 53 wounded at Pulse early in the morning of June 12, several media outlets requested the release of 911 calls made by victims inside Pulse, 911 calls made by the shooter, and dispatch/scanner communication between departments responding to the shooting.
According to the complaint, the public’s interest in hearing these recordings is the evaluation of the emergency response during the shooting, and to “scrutinize and evaluate government behavior.”
“In other words, to realize the central goal in open government laws,” the complaint states.
The City responded by citing laws relating to the release of material during active investigations, and laws prohibiting the release of material which depicts the “killing of a person.”
However, as the media points out, these exemptions to the release of public records are meant to be “narrowly construed”, meaning the recordings have to strictly meet the requirements of Florida law to be exempt from release. By law, the City is only required to redact the portions which explicitly depict the sounds of a person dying.
As the complaint states, the government reported that no gunfire was reported during a three-hour standoff with the gunman. Therefore, phone calls made by the victims and shooter during that time-frame could not depict the “killing of a person.”
The complaint also states there is no preconceived notion that first responders acted improperly during the response to Pulse. If anything, these recordings could serve to shine a light on the heroic manner in which emergency personnel responded on that tragic day.



Despite little change in their style of play, Orlando City SC managed a win against Toronto FC after earning a penalty kick in stoppage time at Camping World Stadium in Orlando, Florida on Saturday, June 25, 2016. With a breakaway run, Júlio Baptista was dragged down in the box, winning OCSC a PK and resulting in a red card for Toronto FC player Josh Williams. Orlando City triumphed 3-2 following Kaká’s conversion of the PK. Check out the photos from the MLS match.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 



This weekend, students from the class of 2020 began to call UCF their new home.
Monday marks the start of the summer B session, and with it, the influx of freshmen who will begin taking classes on UCF’s campus.
Knight News caught up with several members of the class of 2020 to get an idea about what they most look forward to here at UCF, and what they will miss about home.



