The University of Central Florida looked like a ghost town this afternoon, as the campus completely shut down in preparation for Hurricane Matthew.
Traffic lights flashed yellow, students were nowhere to be found, and UCF Police cars rolled through the empty campus streets.

This is the first major hurricane to make landfall here in Orlando in over a decade, and the university is putting forward its best efforts to ensure the safety of its faculty and students.
Evacuation orders have been made for Greek Park along with the Libra, Hercules, and Lake Claire dorms. UCF has offered up multiple locations on campus to serve as shelters for those students, and have been working to set the shelters up with matts for student to sleep on as Matthew makes its way to Central Florida over the next two days.
Students have been scrambling in the last couple of hours left before Matthew makes its biggest impact here. Grocery stores have been trying to keep up with the demands of residents, however, supplies run out quickly. 
Lines have also been extremely long as students pick up their last few items needed to ride out the storm.
Some students are even hanging up shutters today saying they would rather be safe than sorry.
Matthew is expected to come through the Central Florida area in full effect overnight and on into Friday morning. 
Emergency operations crews urge students to not do anything reckless, and to stay inside, as first responders can not be sent out in the storm.



Disney officials announced that Walt Disney World Orlando Resort will close in its entirety on Thursday, the fourth time in its 45-year history preparations have taken place.
At 5 p.m., the theme park, along with Disney Springs, golf courses, water parks, and ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex, will close.
These locations remain closed through Friday, October 7, due to the latest forecasts for Hurricane Matthew.
The previous three prepared closings were all in response to hurricanes: Sept. 15, 1999, for Floyd; Sept. 4-5, 2004, for Frances; and Sept. 26 of 2004 for Jeanne.
On Tuesday, September 11, 2001, Walt Disney World quickly evacuated its park and closed off access to guests for the remainder of the day.
I think this should tell just how serious this hurricane is. 4th time in 45 years that Disney will close, wow. #HurricaneMatthew https://t.co/1fqdG3lO73
— Jason Beede (@therealBeede) October 6, 2016

This is how you know it's really serious. If you're still in the Orlando area and you have the opportunity to leave, LEAVE! https://t.co/Eds2u9Ubki
— Paetyn Krueger (@PaetynKrueger) October 6, 2016

omg https://t.co/0kFaYgfteo
— Daniella Risi (@DaniellaRisi) October 6, 2016

I hope everyone will stay safe💙 https://t.co/neJwpgvsFi
— shay♛ (@httpshahad) October 6, 2016

This isn't a joke anymore. This is 100% serious now  https://t.co/7PKSIifU2V
— chickfileeeiiiii (@sunshineleisha) October 6, 2016

Family is prepped and Mickey is taking some time off. #HurricaneMatthew #PrayersForFlorida 💫 https://t.co/svku9ES8Kg
— Tricia Pridemore (@TPridemore) October 6, 2016

😬😬😬 https://t.co/zbtP0HiHRH
— court (@Courtt_turner) October 6, 2016

Disney World posted several questions on their web page to assist in addressing guests and reducing the currently heavy phone call volume that is expected to last through the weekend:
My Walt Disney World vacation is taking place at the same time that Hurricane Matthew is expected to impact Central Florida. How may this affect my vacation plans?
Based on the most recent forecasts for Hurricane Matthew, Walt Disney World theme parks, water parks, Disney Springs, miniature golf courses and ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex will all be closed today by 5 p.m. and will remain closed through Friday, Oct. 7.
Mickey’s Not-So-Scary Halloween Party has been canceled for Thursday, October 6, 2016, and Friday, October 7, 2016, due to inclement weather associated with Hurricane Matthew. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause! For re-booking, refunds and other options, please call (407) 566-4985, option 5, between 9 AM and 11 PM (EST). Guests under 18 years of age must have parent or guardian permission to call.
We are currently taking precautions for the safety of our Guests and will continue providing updates as the situation evolves. While we make the appropriate preparations, please be aware of the following—in the instance that Hurricane Matthew directly affects your plans:
If I reschedule my vacation to a different date because of a hurricane warning, will I be able to get my same accommodations?
If you are scheduled to arrive within 7 days of a hurricane warning, you may call us in advance to reschedule without a Disney imposed change fee. We cannot guarantee availability of similar accommodations for the new travel dates. All amounts you paid to Disney for rooms, theme park tickets, dining plans and other Disney products and services will be applied toward your new reservation.
Any discounts or special offers applicable to your original confirmed vacation will not apply to the rescheduled vacation travel dates. You are responsible for applicable package pricing for the new vacation dates.
The policy does not apply to certain special events and dining experiences.



On Wednesday, October 5, the University of Central Florida announced the cancellation of classes beginning at 3 p.m. and the closing of all campus operations at 5 p.m.
Mandatory evacuations for certain UCF housing communities (ex: those with outdoor hallways) were announced and will be enforced beginning at 7 p.m. on Thursday. Storm ride-out locations on campus have been assigned for these students.
Along with storm procedural announcements, UCF stated that online deadlines for university courses will not be enforced in their storm readiness plan for students and parents while the university is closed, reiterated on mediums of communication.
“Deadlines for online assignments will not be enforced during the university’s closure for Hurricane Matthew. This includes any online coursework or other assignments due from 3 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 5 until the university reopens”
UCF: Deadlines for Online Assignments will Not be Enforced https://t.co/OG3dQHp8bh
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) October 6, 2016

@Brandiiiixoxo @UCFKnightNews @UCFKnights Deadlines for online assignments will not be enforced during the university’s closure.
— UCF (@UCF) October 6, 2016

As a rebuttal, a few instructors have notified students on dismissing UCF’s statement, holding assigned or kept quizzes and homework deadlines while the university is closed.
With that in mind, mandatory evacuations were announced for Brevard County, among others, for all residents ahead of the Category 4 hurricane’s expected landfall near Cape Canaveral.
National Hurricane Center – Category 4 hurricane:
Catastrophic damage will occur: Well-built framed homes can sustain severe damage with loss of most of the roof structure and/or some exterior walls. Most trees will be snapped or uprooted and power poles downed. Fallen trees and power poles will isolate residential areas. Power outages will last weeks to possibly months. Most of the area will be uninhabitable for weeks or months
Your options:
If you are a student who commutes from Brevard County, for example, and fall under mandatory evacuations from your home or apartment complex, utilize the John C. Hitt Library as a resource because a computer cannot be afforded, lose power because the destruction of the storm affected your community, or are a homeless UCF student (or know students and can communicate to them in one way or another) you have options.
If you, as a student, have already spoken to your instructor on accommodations for meeting these deadlines and the instructor was unwilling, or unresponsive, you may follow these instructions:
All of these can be done in complete privacy.
Although the assignment is dated on an instructor-made syllabus to be due on the days UCF abruptly announced it would be closed entirely, in response to Hurricane Matthew, a syllabus will not override the university’s administrative decision.
In the same way an instructor cannot announce to students class on game day will still be held, when the UCF president announces afternoon classes will be closed, an instructor cannot announce online assignments will still be due when university administrators, executives, and UCF safety officials deem conditions to be unsafe, and shelter be sought. The announcement that online class deadlines will not be enforced has been enumerated in UCF’s storm-readiness plan for students; a syllabus, et al. does not change this.
This decision had in mind student safety, student access to resources, student evacuations, and more. Per UCF, the deadlines of your online assignments will not be enforced while the university is closed (Wednesday through Saturday, for now). Stay safe, students!



