The Bernie Sanders campaign announced that the democratic presidential candidate is expected to hold a rally on Thursday at the Osceola Heritage Park in Kissimmee, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The event is just one of three that Sanders will be speaking at before the Florida presidential primary on March 15. Sanders visited Miami on Tuesday and is scheduled to appear in Tampa at the Florida State Fairgrounds on Thursday, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The latest polls have shown Hilary Clinton to be ahead of Sanders by a landslide in the Florida primary with Tuesday’s Survey USA/Bay News/News 13 poll showing Clinton leading Sanders 61 to 30 percent, with 9 percent undecided, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Doors will open at noon on Thursday’s event and Sanders is scheduled to speak at 3 p.m., according to the Sentinel.
The event is free and open to the public but ordering advance tickets is encouraged.



The University of Central Florida decided to part ways with its women’s basketball coach Joi Williams after a loss to Southern Methodist University in the first round of the American Athletic Conference tournament on Friday.
Williams led UCF to the NCAA tournament twice while at the university, once in 2009 and once in 2011. While at UCF, Williams had one winning season and had an overall record of 114-163 with a conference record of 59-91, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
UCF’s new athletic director Danny White fired Williams on Monday after the team returned from Connecticut where the AAC tournament was held, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
“We appreciate everything that Coach Williams has done for the program over the last nine years. In my short time getting to know Joi, it is clear that she has great character and has led our program with tremendous class and integrity,” White said, according to the Sentinel. “I have given much thought and consideration to this decision, and it is time to move in a different direction. We thank Joi for all of her efforts and wish her the best in her future endeavors.”
According to the Sentinel, Williams added, “I would like to thank president Hitt, Keith Tribble, and Todd Stansbury for giving me the opportunity to lead the UCF women’s basketball program for the last nine years. I took great pride in leading the team into post season competition, watching student-athletes graduate and in being a role model for the young women in my program. To every young woman I have coached at UCF, it has been my pleasure to serve you, coach you and teach you. My most sincere wishes for the best. I wish Danny White and the University of Central Florida family success for years to come.”
Athletic Director Danny White said the search for a new head coach for the women’s basketball team would start immediately, according to the Sentinel.
“I believe we should compete for championships here, and we’re going to find a great coach who can do that. We’ll move as quickly as possible on the search, but will be diligent and take the necessary time to find the right coach for our program,” said White.



