The Obama administration wants to help more students graduate from college by giving them money to attend classes year round and by rewarding them for taking more credits each academic year, according to Huffington Post College.
Two new proposals were announced Tuesday that would expand the already $29 billion program by $2 billion in the new fiscal year.
The first proposal, known as the Pell for Accelerated Completion, would help low-income students Pell earn money to take classes during a third semester letting them to take classes over summer, according to the Huffington Post.
The On-Track Pell Bonus is the second proposal. It would reward students $300 for taking more than 15 credit hours during an academic year, according to the Huffington Post.
Eighty-percent of the wealthiest high school graduates continue into higher education, said John King Jr., Acting Secretary of Education, while just over half of the lowest-income students do, according to the Huffington Post.
Pell grants are meant to help students in financial need and do not have to be repaid.
According to the Huffington Post, the Pell proposal aimed at funding students to take on another semester, could help as many as 700,000 students with $1900, on average. 
The $300 reward could help as many as 2.3 million students, according to the education department, according to the Huffington Post.
The increase would require congressional approval.
The government awarded $28.7 billion in Pell grants to almost 8.3 million students in the 2015 fiscal year. The average Pell grant was about $3,600. The maximum Pell award for the 2015-2016 school year is $5,775, according to the Huffington Post.



UCF student Adam Christopher is making it his mission to bike all the way from Orlando to Los Angeles, all to benefit the Wounded Warrior Project.
When asked about why he chose to benefit the Wounded Warrior Project, Christopher said the kinds of people involved are the kinds of people he wants to help.
“I just think the values and mission of wounded warrior project align with who I’d like to help. I’ve actually been planning this trip for several years but never really had the opportunity to make it happen,” said Christopher. 
Christopher said that growing up he was very patriotic and wanted to join and serve the military for four years after school. Unfortunately, he was diagnosed with Crohn’s disease and is now unable to join any branch.
Christopher has planned the entire trip himself and is getting a lot of help from friends and family.
“There’s been a lot of planning involved but since I made the announcement yesterday I’ve received an incredible amount of support. In a day I’ve raised over $250 combined within the wounded warrior project and gofundme accounts.”
If you’re interested in helping Christopher, donations can be made to his GoFundMe account or his Wounded Warrior Project account.



Ever find yourself struggling when your phone’s battery is on 2%, you don’t have cell service, or you simply can’t type fast enough on your touch screen mobile device? These are no longer problems for those use the mobile app known as Yik Yak.
Yik Yak for the web launched its public beta Wednesday morning. Users can now Yik Yak away with their local herd on their laptop and desktop computers.
A couple months ago, Yik Yak launched a closed beta of the web version to certain users to test the concept. Because the web version is still in public beta, some features of the app will still only be accessible by the phone.
However, features like voting, New and Hot feeds, My Herd, all our usual reporting flows, and Peek tab collections will still be available on the web version. 
The company stressed that they are trying to make the experience more convenient and user friendly.
“Yik Yak is all about connecting communities, and we want to make sure students can stay in touch with their herds in the most convenient way possible, whether that’s on their phones or their computers,” Yik Yak said in a press release.



