A team of students from the University of Central Florida will travel Europe with no money, one emergency cell phone, their charisma and a 24-pack of Red Bull.
Miladin Balos, Zack Pierola and Steven Yalowitz will be representing the University of Central Florida in the Red Bull Can You Make It Challenge as team Red, White and Bull.
The three UCF students are one of 165 teams from all over the world competing to travel 600 miles across Europe using only the energy drink as currency. Over 500 teams from the United States applied and only 18 were chosen.
Every team will start the challenge in either Barcelona, Florence, Berlin, Edinburgh or Prague. They have one week to make it to Paris.
Along the way the cans of Red Bull will be their means of living, trading them for food, transportation and all their adventures.
“I think the most challenging part will be finding a new place to stay each night. Every day we will be on the run and will have to meet new people and hope they take us in,” Yalowitz said. 
Team Red, White and Bull set sail for Europe on Sunday afternoon. They arrived in Italy on Monday and the challenge begins April 12.
“We are honestly brainstorming but we have no idea what to expect. Our best motive for getting across Europe is connecting with other college students,” Balos expressed.
Pierola said that he is most excited about the memories the best friends will make and the culture they will pick up along the way.
Besides reaching Paris, points are acquired through checkpoint challenges, completing tasks from an adventure list and social media following achieved.
To support fellow Knights on the social media following, tune into the team’s Red Bull TV Journal and share their entries through Facebook and Twitter. 
“We will use our smiles, charisma and our exuberant personalities to get across Europe,” Yalowitz said.
Red Bull is partnering with Knights Pub for a screening event of the challenge April 12 at 8:30 p.m.
To know more about the trio and follow along in their journey, check out their team page.
Photo credit: Christina Astore, Green Band Productions.



