On election day 2016, students at the University of Central Florida gathered outside the student union to show their support for their party’s candidates in an attempt to try to sway any remaining undecided voters.
To do this, the College Republicans set up a booth that featured printed out copies of Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails and a Hillary Clinton Impersonator behind bars. 


The College Democrats would joined the fray to drum up support for Democratic Party nominee Hillary Clinton with a giant Hillary banner that students could sign their names to. 
At 1 p.m. the Hillary Clinton team met up outside the union and marched through the campus on their way to the polls, holding the Hillary banner.


Knight News will be bringing UCF Coverage from all across Orlando tonight as the Presidential election comes to an end, stay tuned for continued coverage.



It’s decision day in America.
One of the most polarizing elections in United States’ history is coming to a close after over a year of campaigning, and for the entirety of that year both candidates have been battling for the vote of the millenials. But many millenials seem unenthusiastic about this election, with many saying they have a hard time supporting either candidate. 
Knight News was able to conduct an exclusive one-on-one interview with NBC’s Chuck Todd on that matter, as well a few other topics. Many of you know Mr. Todd as the Moderator from NBC’s ‘Meet the Press’, and his very long and successful career as a political journalist. 

Knight News was able to discuss the election as well as the current state of affairs in Washington, Mr. Todd’s keys to being a successful journalist on the campaign trail, as well as topics relevant to UCF, including the importance of media to fight for public records.
“I can not emphasize it enough, you have to fight, and you have to constantly fight.” those were Mr. Todds’s words on the importance of the media to fight for public records, and his response after Knight News told him they had to sue to get access to SGA records.
“It’s a constant fight for public records, it’s a constant fight for press access.”
Todd explained that getting public records from all levels of the government can be a challenge. “One thing that all White Houses have in common, regardless of the party or the President in power is their goal of limiting access to the press.” Todd said. But Todd insisted that it is imperative for the media to keep fighting. “You have to keep fighting, because the minute you stop fighting, they claim that ground.” Todd explained that fighting for public records is “a duty to the next generation of reporters.”
Viewers can hear more from Chuck Todd tonight as he will be co-anchoring NBC’s “Decision Night in America” starting at 7 p.m.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued political coverage.



The City of Orlando has announced that a deal with Pulse nightclub has been reached to turn the site into a memorial.
The $2.25 million agreement, $1.65 million higher than the appraised value, will include a 4,500-square foot building occupying a third of an acre.
Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer stated that the site will remain untouched for now to allow for visitors to mourn.
“There are lots of people that are making a visit to the site as part of their trip, part of their experience of Orlando, so I think 12 to 18 months of leaving it as-is would be appropriate,” the mayor said to the Orlando Sentinel.
“We’re still gathering information. We’re looking around the country for some people that have done something like this before. There are some folks with expertise related to this,” Dyer continued. “[The goal is to] create something to honor the memory of the victims that are deceased, those that were injured, and a testament to the resilience of our community.”
Dyer plans to take the creation of the memorial seriously, with talk of leaving part of the nightclub permanently intact, such as the iconic roadside.
On Friday, Rosario Poma and his wife Barbara – the owners of the club- signed the sales contract. Final say on the deal will take place this week.
In the meantime, mourners will continue to flow to the site to pay their respects and add to the mementos left behind to the victims.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



