TAMPA — Tampa Bay’s Sunshine Skyway, USF, and government buildings have been closed in Tampa preparation for Tropical Storm Colin. 
Tropical Storm Colin is expected to make landfall near Tallahassee tonight, but its tropical rains and winds will be felt across the state, including in Orlando and Jacksonville.

UCF closed its campus at 4 p.m. on Monday in preparation of the storm that has already flooded Bayshore Blvd, the street that hundreds of Knights patrolled back in January during Gasparilla. 
Several roads and institutions in Tampa have closed their doors as well to brace for the 25-35 mph winds that Colin is expected to bring. 
Campus is expected to reopen tomorrow after the storm has passed, but Knight News will keep you informed of any future Tropical Storm updates. 



Tropical Storm Colin is heading for Central Florida and the university is canceling classes as a precaution.
The UCF Police Department tweeted that campus will close today at 4 p.m.
#UCF campus will close at 4pm today due to #TropicalStormColin. Further alerts will be sent out via UCF Alert & at https://t.co/sI3W1hPord.
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) June 6, 2016

Students: Classes at all UCF locations that start after 4PM. Monday, June 6, are canceled.
— UCF (@UCF) June 6, 2016

UCFPD also tweeted that the shuttles will be running until 6 p.m.
A UCF Alert was also sent out at around 2:42 p.m. confirming the campus closing and telling evening facilities staff to contact their supervisor.
Governor Rick Scott has declared Florida under a state of emergency.
Tropical Storm Colin is expected to hit the UCF area with severe rain and possible flooding or tornadoes, according to AccuWeather.
#Colin's fast-moving lines of storms will produce threat for heavy rains, isolated tornadoes, & strong gusty winds. pic.twitter.com/iq0kjW9fZo
— NWS Melbourne (@NWSMelbourne) June 6, 2016

Campus will reopen as normal on Tuesday, according to a UCF Alert email.
Check back on Knight News for updates on Tropical Storm Colin.



Florida Governor Rick Scott has declared a state of emergency across 34 Florida counties in preparation for Tropical Storm Colin.
According to the National Weather Service, Colin is located about 285 miles west-southwest of Tampa, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph.
Colin is forecasted to make landfall tonight. Although the storm will not hit Central Florida directly, it will bring high winds, flooding, and a moderate risk of tornados.
A state of emergency places the government in a better position to deal with the storm, and bars businesses from price-gouging customers who are attempting to prepare.
UCF has not released any notification of class cancellations.



