Tuesday, September 11, 2001, the terrorist group al-Qaeda launched a series of coordinated plane attacks on the United States. 2,977 people died during this assault and over 6,000 others were injured. 15 years later, the nation mourns the most devastating terrorist attack ever carried out on American soil.
At the University of Central Florida, students from the College Republicans, College Democrats and Young Americans for Freedom came together in solidarity to put aside their differences and remember America’s darkest hour. As they all have done since 2007, the UCF political community placed flags in the free speech lawn, one for every life lost on that fateful day. 
“It’s really important to remember the impact this tragedy had on everyone as Americans,” Karis Lockhart, Chairman of the College Republicans said.
“9/11 really reminded us that there is evil in this world, and we need to make sure we defeat that evil,” Lockhart continued.
College Democrat President Michael Hodapp echoed Lockhart’s statements saying,  “This attack was not targeted towards a specific group, that’s why it doesn’t mean that we are either Republican or Democrat, it means we are all coming together as one to remember these victims and this tragic loss of life.”
Along with the Students, Florida Congressman John Mica came out to remember 9/11 and recount the tragedy from his perspective. Congressman Mica shared how he personally knew multiple people who lost their lives that day and explained why this event was so touching to him. Congressman Mica closed his speech by thanking the college students in attendance for actively keeping the memory of the victims alive.
“I think its great that students have come out to remember those who were lost and to also remember how important national security is to all Americans,” Congressman Jon Mica said.
During this event commemorating the 15th anniversary of September 11, there were no Republicans, Democrats, or Independents; only Americans. These clubs plan on doing more events like this to help mend fences between the parties and to remember that they are all Americans first.



