Every year Kappa Sigma fraternity fills their parking lot with 200 tons of sand for their annual Key West Fest.
This year, Knight News is proud to be the media sponsor of the philanthropy, which benefits the Military Heroes Campaign. There are currently 543 confirmed attendees on the event’s official Facebook page. 
Doors will open at 6:30 p.m. this Friday for the concert. Your printed ticket must be shown at the entrance. 
Lighted and secure parking is available for free one block from the venue at UCF Parking Garage H. Parking is not allowed at the Kappa Sigma Fraternity House.
Dress Code: Beach Attire. No professional cameras permitted without an approved media pass. No backpacks. Bags subject to search.This year, Kappa Sigma will be bringing Instant Party to their on-campus fraternity house, an up-and-coming EDM artist.
Buy Tickets online for $20 HERE
 



UCF won’t let the public see its foundation travel expenses– but it can’t stop state lawmakers from seeing it.
“[W]e look forward to receiving the top 100 travel transactions in detail, as well as all out of state; out of country and all foundation staff travel costs,” read an email from Florida State Budget Chief Tony Lloyd to UCF Foundation CEO Michael Morsberger. 
The University of Central Florida is currently under review by the Florida state legislature in regards to its foundation’s travel expenses, which have attracted the attention of the state.
This information was discovered by Knight News through emails between the University and Florida state officials, however the records were not easy to come by, and cost Knight News a total of $226 to obtain.
The email from Lloyd also asks for more detailed descriptions on several items listed on the UCF foundation’s expense report, including a $10.1 million expenditure labeled as “transferred/ provided by the university”, as well as $4.6 million labeled as “general university support”.
In the email, FL Budget Chief Lloyd requested that UCF respond to his email by February 15, however the University has yet to release their response to Knight News.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued updates on this story.



