ORLANDO, Fla. – Sixteen players from UCF’s first undefeated team in program history have been named All-Conference, McKenzie Milton took home Offensive Player of the Year honors, and Scott Frost has been unanimously selected as the American Athletic Conference’s Coach of the Year.
Milton led the conference in total offense this season, his 339.1 yards per game totaling a cool 3,730 yards and 36 total touchdowns.
USF quarterback Quinton Flowers recorded 324.7 yards per game and put the rock in the end zone 31 times; Memphis gunslinger Riley Ferguson produced 322.5 per game and 38 touchdowns.
The nine first-team nominees include three underclassmen and five offensive players from the nation-leading UCF scoring offense, but nine of the total seventeen players call the defensive side of the ball home.
Shaquem Griffin joins Frost as a unanimous selection as well.
OFFENSE
First Team All-Conference
QB McKenzie Milton (So)
OL Jordan Johnson (So)
RB Adrian Killins (So)
OL Aaron Evans (Sr)
TE Jordan Akins (Sr)
Second Team All-Conference 
WR Tre’Quan Smith (Jr)
OL Wyatt Miller (Jr)
 
DEFENSE & SPECIAL TEAMS
First Team All-Conference
DB Mike Hughes (Jr)
DB Kyle Gibson (Jr)
LB Shaquem Griffin (Sr)
DL Jamiyus Pittman (Sr)
Second Team All-Conference 
DL Trysten Hill (So)
K Matthew Wright (Jr)
P Mac Loudermilk (Jr)
KR Mike Hughes (Jr)
LB Chequan Burkett (Sr)



Facilities Safety and Transportation Coordinator Chandra Kethi-Reddy was fired from his post after failing to meet platform goals, cursing at a Homecoming executive board member and sleeping at his desk — according to a strongly-worded statement released by Student Government President Nick Larkins.
Larkins’ official statement, which has since been deleted from the Student Government Association’s Facebook page, claims that Kethi-Reddy was “found sleeping in his desk chair in his office wrapped in a blanket and pillow while on the clock, effectively ‘stealing time,’ a crime in the state of Florida.
“After speaking with our Advisor and Office Manager about the appropriate course of action to Terminate Chandra, I called a meeting at 3pm yesterday in my office. After I explained that effectively immediately he would be Terminated, he said ‘I want to resign then,’” Larkins said.
During his time as transportation coordinator, Kethi-Reddy unveiled a change to residential parking rules that would free up over 1000 parking spaces on campus. However, Larkins disputes Kethi-Reddy’s role in the change.
“This was an idea that I heard discussed at the University Parking & Transportation Committee as a member over 2 years ago, and they finally decided to pull the trigger this year.” Larkins stated. “Chandra supported the move but he certainly did not plan it or “single handedly” pull it off like he claims.”
The statement comes after Kethi-Reddy’s Tuesday announcement on his personal Facebook page that he resigned as transportation coordinator and that he was preparing to speak to the media on Larkins’ leadership. He told Knight News he will dispute Larkins’ claims at Thursday night’s senate meeting.
“I do not know, nor do I care what Chandra’s version of this ‘story’ is,” Larkins said in the statement. “Everyone that has encountered him knows my claims to be true, and they have been well discussed with many UCF administrators. I wish him the best in all of his future endeavors.”
The statement was deleted from the student government Facebook page after commenters took issue with its wording, with one person calling it both “unprofessional” and “unnecessary.” It has also since been on the “Nick and Cristina” Facebook page.
UPDATE: A previous version of this article embedded the post announcing Kethi-Reddy’s termination from the “Nick and Cristina” Facebook page. That has since been deleted. The article now shows screenshots of the post. 



