The U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence and the University of Central Florida will coordinate training and research support as of a new memorandum of understanding, according to UCF officials.
The memorandum enables the Army to use laboratories in UCF’s Institute for Simulation and Training dedicated to behavioral cyber security, data analytics, and more. As a designated National Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education, by both the National Security Agency and the Department of Homeland Security, UCF may provide the training.
“We have seen a progression of research and training in cybersecurity within the Army and now they have to focus on workforce development,” said retired Army colonel Bruce Caulkins, Director of the UCF Modeling & Simulation of Behavioral Cybersecurity program.
The memorandum states that UCF will provide specific training modules to protect the National Information Infrastructure, networks, hardware, software, and databases required to make information accessible over the Internet, according to UCF.
Data analysis, cyberdefense, cyberthreats, cryptography, network defense, and intrusion detection will be covered in the training.
“UCF is uniquely qualified to provide a wide range of educational support in cyber, both from a technical and humancentric point of view,” said dean of the College of Engineering and Computer Science Michael Georgiopoulos.
“The many strengths of UCF’s program within CECS are centered on the collaboration of education professionals who cover a wide array of highly technical subjects and research areas.”



The Lunar Knights Mining Club at the University of Central Florida will compete in NASA’s national Robotic Mining Competition this month at the Kennedy Space Center.
Fifty student teams across the United States entered in a challenge robotic excavation, intended to help in the exploration of Mars with the collection of outside ideas.
“Our team is well prepared this year,” Adrienne Dove, Lunar Knights faculty adviser and an assistant professor of physics, told UCF.
“The robot is more robust than previous years. It’s a complicated system the team has gotten to work. It has to work mechanically, but it also has to run automatically. There’s a lot of parts that have come together.”
As a registered student organization, the Lunar Knights team received funding from the UCF Student Government Association to compete. The team raised $5,000 and received donated parts and equipment from local companies to create the robot, UCF officials said.
“We started from scratch, which makes it more challenging and exciting,” said the president of Lunar Knights Esther Amram, Spring 2017 graduate with a bachelor’s in aerospace engineering.
“We’re an interdisciplinary team made up of so many majors. We have team members who study marketing, psychology, criminal justice and of course all the engineering disciplines. It’s been a great learning experience.”
The competition takes place from May 22-62 at the Kennedy Space Center and will feature scholarship money and trophies for the top-finishing teams.
UCF will enter for their second time. The Lunar Knights bring a robot that will center on dust-mitigation, where the soil is retained in buckets as mining takes place.



