ORLANDO, Fla. – Scott Frost brought a title run to UCF, but the Knights’ third AAC Championship Title belongs to the players. As the confetti rained down on Orlando’s Hometown Team, the trophy jumped from presenter to the team at lightspeed.
“I will remember that for a long time,” said a teary-eyed Frost. “I couldn’t see anything but the confetti, but that’s not my trophy, that’s their trophy. It’s a proud moment for me, but I wanted to get that trophy in these guys’ hands as fast as I could.”
51 young men on this undefeated team were a part of the squad that went winless just two seasons ago. 51 young men had to make the transition from blame-shifting to accountable, a shift that has been heralded by seniors and coaching staff alike all season.
“Everyone was about themselves and trying to do what’s best for them and do what’s best for their future. We got beside ourselves and we forgot what the importance of a team was,” said Shaquem Griffin. “Coach Frost brought that back to us. It’s been so long since we’ve seen it that we didn’t know what it took to be a team, but he knew what it took.”
The winless squad of 2015 wasn’t devoid of talent, clearly. You don’t make history’s most rapid ascent from the bottom of the barrel to the cream of the crop without having some bullets loaded in the chamber, but George O’Leary and staff had let the team become a group of individuals.
Frost injected the team with a new sense of swagger and impressed the importance of family on them early on. He added young talent and made sure that they got involved with each other, mixing the old and new classes on UCF football immediately.
“We were told to just stay with somebody, take the young guys under your wing and just hang out, you know,” explained Griffin. “Learn about them. Not just your position group, but learn how the offensive guys think, see what they like to do – and that carried us a long way.”
A 6-7 season to follow up the much-anticipated program revival may have been a small step, but it laid the foundation that carried these Knights through one of the most unpredictable in school history.
When 2017 came calling with Hurricane Irma scheduling, College Football Playoff noise, the pressure of an undefeated season and devastating coaching rumors – the foundation of brotherhood from 2016 held strong.
“We just worked on loving each other, and it’s crazy how far we’ve gotten just from strict love,” explained Tre Neal about the growth. “Guys are going to play, guys aren’t going to play, we’re here for each other and I think that’s what got us over the top.”
Tre and Shaquem were part of the old guard, McKenzie Milton and most of the playmakers in the end zone this season earned their way into the family with their hustle since arriving on campus. The unity shone through in floodlight during the historic undefeated run.
“Playing eleven, twelve straight weeks, that can be a grind at times,” admitted Milton. “But I don’t think there was a day we went out there not having fun, not loving on each other, not smiling, guys not flying around during practice. I think that’s the biggest thing, just having fun with each other.”
There was an understandable lull in practice this week, as the head of the family prepared to depart town. Monday and Tuesday were substandard, forcing Shaquem to call a player’s only meeting, true to his projection as a UCF superhero.
In short, the meeting called on the players to look back at one another and keep fighting for their family. To not be distracted by a decision outside of their control and to finish the mission that they had all started twelve weeks ago.
The American Athletic Conference Championship could have gone either way, evidenced by the double-overtime finish. UCF could have let it slip away from them, and everyone would have understood, blaming a lack of focus in the meeting room or finding an excuse to pin the loss of the game on the loss of their head coach.
A roster of football players kept that from being the headline. With the world in flames around them and the nation’s best scoring offense in the season’s second half breathing down their neck, UCF fired off 65 points on the way to the highest scoring conference title game in NCAA history. Pure heart and hustle won out in that game.
The national storylines will be all over the coaching search and the homeward journey of Nebraska’s crowned prince, but this game, this moment and this perfect season belong to the players.



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF wins the American Conference Championship, capping off an undefeated regular season.  It was a hard-fought double-overtime victory versus a tough Memphis team.  The final score was 62 to 55, the highest scoring conference championship game in NCAA history.
“Memphis is a really good football team, they are well coached, their quarterback and receiver are special,” Coach Frost said.  “They are the second highest scoring offense in the country for a reason, we are the highest for a reason.”
It was a back and forth game all day, UCF held a 14-point lead late in the fourth quarter, and had survived multiple lead changes all night. Both teams had opportunities to win in the last 2 minutes of the game, neither capitalized. In overtime both teams scored with relative ease. In the second overtime Riley Ferguson threw a slant pass and Tre Neal stepped in front, and the celebration began.
“Chequan Burkett told us, ‘you know what boys I love all of y’all,’ and that goes a long way, I think that is why we prevailed,” said Tre Neal about the mindset of the defense in overtime.
The UCF fans came out today.  This place was packed, and it was rocking.  For back to back weeks this team got to understand what a true home field advantage feels like.
Not one of UCF’s scoring drives were longer than 4 minutes, highlighting the UCFast attack primed by Frost for two years.
Coach Frost showed his soft side today, fighting off emotions for the entire post-game procedures. The press conference was a love fest between himself and his adopted sons as all the players kept repeating the words family and love. Frost didn’t speak much, but poorly held back tears.
“I think I speak for all these guys, he (Frost) has taught us how to love each other,” Tre Neal said about the differences since Frost arrived.  “It’s crazy how much hate at 0-12 we had on this team, that was the first thing, when he got here we worked on loving each other.  It’s amazing how far you can get on straight love.”
These two teams totaled for 1,479 yards of offense, big play after big play.  It was truly exciting from start to finish.  McKenzie Milton had many of those yards, 562 to be exact.  Milton totaled 5 touchdowns on the day.  Not everything was peachy today for Milton though, he threw 3 interceptions.  That’s very out of character for Milton, he only had 6 interceptions all season prior to today.  In overtime he stepped up, leading the team to back to back touchdowns, and ultimately a conference championship.
“I can’t believe how much he has grown up since he has been here, he is like a son or little brother to me,” Frost said on his relationship with Milton.
Shaquem Griffin had an unbelievable last game at Spectrum Stadium, sacking Riley Ferguson twice on key third down plays. Griffin has a motor, despite the cliche’ expression – he can be relentless when going at the quarterback.  Griffin faces double teams, and often it doesn’t matter.  He is too fast for most tackles in the American Conference.
“Eighteen has some of the most courage and biggest heart I’ve ever seen,” Coach Frost said about Shaquem. “He is going to make a lot of money playing this game, and I can’t wait to watch it.
Big names were on UCF campus, and once again they delivered.  UCF will have one more monster test, probably around the new year. With an undefeated season and conference champinoship in the books, a likely New Year’s Six berth looms at the final mountain to climb.



Saturday afternoon, minutes after an overtime thriller against Memphis, UCF officials notified media of Scott Frost’s resignation as head football coach.
UCF Athletic Director Danny White called a press conference in Spectrum Stadium at 6 p.m. to provide information on Frost’s resignation and the national search.
White stated that Frost is all but locked in to coach the New Year’s Bowl game. Frost was reportedly conflicted for weeks deciding on the coaching position but the pull from his alma mater would prevail. Scott will be in Nebraska to recruit and perform transitional duties, later returning to Orlando and the site of the New Year’s game to provide the Knights the greatest opportunity to win the bowl game.
White would not go into specific detail on when Frost decided to take the Nebraska position nor any communications on other schools, including Nebraska.

In the meantime, offensive coordinator Troy Walters will serve as interim head coach.
White stated that a new coach will be announced within days to weeks; the new coach will not lead the team in the bowl game for obvious reasons.
On the sidelines of the game after the Knights declared victory and in the post-game press conference, Frost held back tears, reflecting on all that was accomplished in a matter of two seasons. It is undeniable that Frost saw the players and the university as his family – throughout every game and practice of the season. The then-head coach expressed his gratitude for the team, President Hitt, Danny White, and more, even through the 6-6 season to media and, on several occasions before Nebraska rumors took off, was emotional after marquee wins in the early season.

A dream season for the Knights has been accomplished and the momentum will carry on through 2018. A young team and fresh schedule will await, potentially carrying a 13-0 record over their shoulders.
Stay tuned with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF Football updates. We will be at the New Year’s Six Bowl site the week leading up to the event.



The University of Central Florida has become American Athletic Conference Champions after defeating Memphis at home 62-55 at home.
After a back-and-forth scoring series between the No. 1 and No. 2 highest scoring offenses in the country, the game went into overtime after Memphis missed a crucial field goal with seconds left in the fourth quarter.
A shootout began in the Knights first overtime of the season – both teams scored in the first round and UCF began the scoring in the second round. A slew of penalties kept the stadium on edge as Memphis was pushed back, later gaining a first down off a 4th and 7.
And just five yards from the UCF end zone, Tre Neal intercepted a pass from Tigers’ QB Riley Furguson to call the game and ignite Spectrum Stadium.
The Knights are undefeated in the regular season and in conference play.
UCF will head to a New Year’s Six Bowl for the second time in five years.
Stay tuned with @UCFKnightNews for a full game recap and post-game story.



