On Sunday, the University of Central Florida Knights for Socialism held an event titled “Self-Defense Clinic: Boxing“ to teach students to defend themselves and “BASH THE FASH,” under a Donald Trump presidency.
According to the Knights for Socialism event page, the clinic is being held “in response to the record number of hate crimes against Latinos, Immigrants, Muslims, Women, the LGBTQIA+ community, Jews, African Americans and other minorities since the rise of Donald Trump and other Alt-Right Neo-Nazis.”

Chairman of the Knights for Socialism, Sophomore Dylan Tyer has stated that these events are crucial and that he himself has been threatened here at UCF.
“I have gotten threats [at UCF], I’ve been told I’d be shot by a right-wing death squad. I’ve been told as a protestor, as someone who organizes mass actions and protests that I should be run over, gas chambers, you name it. It’s absolutely disgusting; there are really people on this campus that are really honestly sociopaths,” Tyer said.
During the event, local amateur fighter Adrian taught the group how to properly throw a jab and followed by giving everyone a chance to put on a pair of boxing gloves and test their skills. Participants enjoyed the experience and felt that they really learned something.
“I think this is a useful skill to have. Like if you are out somewhere and someone tries to hurt you. But other then that I think its something to add to your repertoire,” freshman Physic student Joe Walsh sad.
Though this event was classified as a public event on Facebook, “This event is open to everyone and anyone, EXCEPT REPUBLICANS,” was written in the about section.
Conservatives at UCF expressed concern about being excluded from the event.
“I think the organization needs to revue the UCF Golden Rule if they want to continue to be an official organization on campus,” Chairwomen of the College Republicans Karis Lockhart said.
“Their exclusive and divisive language on their Facebook event goes against the UCF Golden Rule and what UCF stands for. The event goes further to prove that they do not want to have an educated discussion about the issues, as they much rather host an event that blatantly excludes fellow Knights that have a different politically ideology than them,” Lockhart said.
Tyer believes these concerns about Republicans being excluded are unwarranted.
“There are people who say in response to the rise of SJW’s (Social Justice Warrior’s) that they are going to start conceal carrying on campus, which is blatantly illegal. Thus, I don’t think any concerns about us are warranted,” Tyer said.
This was The Knights for Socialism’s first of many planned self-defense seminars. If you are interested in hearing more about Knights for Socialism or attending there next self defense clinic, you can follow Knights for Socialism on Facebook for details.



A hazing incident report received by the University of Central Florida, concerned for the well-being of a reported freshman, went without a response by UCF staff in charge of the hazing hotline for fifteen days after the report had been initially filed.
The emailed report dated January 5, 2017, 12:27 p.m. alleged imminent events that would have critically impacted a peer’s physical and mental state, among other concerns.
The complainant, whose identity or relationship to the student is unclear due to redactions by UCF, pleaded in the email with university officials to take action before that Saturday to protect and preserve the mental health – and alleged lives – of certain students from being “psychologically harmed” as part of a reported hazing ritual.
The university checked its Hazing Hotline fifteen days later, on January 20, records show.
In the email, the complainant described the freshman’s expectation and account of recruitment that would allegedly take place around the turn of the New Year.
“[Redacted is] currently a freshman at UCF that rushed Phi Delta Theta with the expectation that hazing would only be a myth and that it would be a good way to get involved within the UCF community and make friends while doing so,” the complainant reported.
“After weeks of pledging Phi Delta Theta[,] he has come to seek aid from me as he says it has been one of the most psychologically harming experiences he has ever experienced. It has taken a toll on him both mentally and physically,” the complainant continued.

“On top of that[,] his grades have dropped due to this,” the complainant said in the email. “I am currently writing this because [redacted] that Phi Delta Theta’s ‘hell week’ starts this Saturday and that they will [redacted].”
“I am please asking you to take action and investigate before this Saturday as it could potentially save the mental state or even possibly the lives of the kids that are too scared to take action themselves,” the complainant went on.
After first reading the email about two weeks after that Saturday, a response message from UCF was sent to inform the student of the resources available should the student wish to come forward. An incident report moved the process once the response email went through.
In response to the alleged life-or-death claim and incident reporting form, UCF Director of the Office of Student Conduct Michael Gilmer issued a notice and mandatory hearing to Phi Delta Theta on the fifteenth day after the hazing report to the hotline.
With reference to the email received by UCF and its supporting documents, Gilmer enacted a summary action of: immediate suspension pending the outcome of the disciplinary case and a mandatory interim hearing scheduled for January 31, 2017, at 4 p.m. in the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities Hearing Room. A full hearing on the charges of the case may be scheduled after the dated meeting, according to documents received by Knight News. UCF may choose to drop the charges without a hearing if there is insufficient evidence.
The evidence is unclear — at least to the public.
An attachment in the email report to the Hazing Hotline included a screenshot of a message thread involving alleged Phi Delta Theta members discussing a threatening event, according to the report. UCF refused to release an unredacted copy of that text message.

Knight News made public records requests to the University of Central Florida, backed by Florida law, on providing the supporting and corresponding documentation of the allegations in a timely manner. Acknowledgment emails to the university early Friday afternoon involved a continuous conversation went unanswered once a specified records request went through.
Knight News threatened legal action to UCF during early business hours Monday morning and, subsequently, records were provided soon after.
As part of the Office of Student Conduct’s case, Student Care Services – submitted January 19, 2017 at 4:06 p.m. through the Student of Concern form – received an incident report on January 19, 2017 at 3:55 p.m. detailing a volatile situation.
On January 14, 2017, at 3 a.m., an alleged incident involving a “heavily inebriated” student, under the suspected influence of alcohol, was reported on campus where the student attempted to pick a fight with their roommate after banging on multiple doors inside the apartment and insulting their roommate’s fraternity.
The inebriated student soon calmed down, in due part to their peers, although the students reported that the initial student in concern had come home under the influence previously in the past school year and that it had been an issue, according to the supporting document. A police agency was notified, according to the report.
It also appears from the records that the roommate who filed the incident report belonged to another fraternity.

In a previous statement, the UCF Phi Delta Theta President, Gary Burns, enumerated to Knight News that safety remained an utmost priority in the how the organization runs.
“We are aware of the allegations that have placed our organization under investigation at this time,” Burns said. “We take all allegations seriously as the safety of our chapter, its members and the external community as a whole is our main priority.”
“We are working with UCF to obtain the specific allegations so we can investigate as thoroughly as possible.  I have already started my own internal investigation with the limited information regarding these allegations that I have received from UCF.”
Burns said to Knight News previously that no clear evidence has been shared with the Phi Delta Theta leadership thus far, although Phi Delta Theta will contribute to the investigative process involving UCF.
“So far I have found nothing to support any validity in the allegations. We will continue to work diligently with UCF officials, alumni and our general headquarters in an effort to solve this investigation.”
Burns moved forward with an internal investigation.
“In regards to the recent allegations being brought to light, our organization remains very concerned. There is absolutely NO reason any of our members should have at any point in time been in question of their mental, emotional or physical well being,” Burns said.
“I have personally sat down with each of our new members individually to see if at any point in time any brother put them in a position described as such. Still, I have found nothing to support these allegations. At no point in time were the lives of any of our members at stake.”
“In Phi Delta Theta’s eyes, hazing is the antithesis of the development of a man, and is counterproductive to our goals as an organization. We are still working diligently with UCF to resolve the situation,” Burns concluded.
Knight News has several pending public records requests pending and will continue to investigate.
Check back for updates.



Lights, camera, “And You Films”!
Knight News sat down with actress Aléa Figueroa and writer, actor and director Brendan Jackson Rogers of “And You Films” to discuss their most recent feature film, Gotta Kill Em All, expected to release this summer.
Rogers received his MFA in Acting from UCF and co-founded “And You Films” with Will Phillips in 2005. Since then, he has produced hundreds of commercials, industrials, web videos, short films, and feature films. 
Figueroa graduated from Rollins College in 2008 with a BA in Theatre Arts. She has acted in dozens of theatre shows, commercials, industrial films, prints, as well as films for “And You Films” and other production companies. 
Although she has been acting professionally for over 10 years, Figueroa has yet to direct a film. She plans on directing her first film beginning in March and completing it by the end of April. 
“The short film is a dramedy loosely based off personal events of when my younger sister was diagnosed with leukemia. Specifically, it focuses on the exact moment a single mother is given her diagnosis of acute myeloid leukemia,” Figueroa said.
“I hope to run the festival circuit with it once it’s completed,” she added.
“And You Films” has released two hit feature films already, including Flashback and Bubba the Redneck Werewolf, which were both huge successes in the festival scene. 
Flashback appeared in the Cannes Film Festival and was domestically distributed in 2013. 
Bubba the Redneck Werewolf appeared in the Fear Fete Film Festival, Sitges International Fantastic Film Festival, Silver Scream and Comic Fest, Palm Beach International Film Festival, Super Geek Film Festival, Dragon Con Film Festival, and just recently went on DVD. 
There will be a release party for the DVD on February 9th at the Athens Theater in DeLand. The doors will open at 6:30 p.m. and the screening will start at 7. Tickets are $5. Visit the event page to purchase tickets and find more information.
Along with feature films, “And You Films” creates many parody skits and trailers that you can view on their YouTube channel. 
Rogers and Figueroa spoke to us about their experiences with “And You Films” and what to expect with their newest feature film, Gotta Kill Em All:

This article was contributed by Megan Scavo and Kevin Broadway



