ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF beat the UConn Huskies 49 to 24 on Saturday afternoon in Orlando, keeping pace with college football’s undefeated elite in a sub-par performance at home.
Once heralded (by one man) as the American Conference’s next big-ticket rivalry, the previously-named-civil-ConFLiCT was anything but a fair fight. UCF took a lead on the game’s opening drive, a sloppy affair that was held afloat by a favorable penalty on third down.
UConn was out-gained 519 to 413, but the Huskies had no business being as competitive as they were. The Knights kept them in the game with ten penalties, two turnovers on fourth down and a pair of turnovers.
“I think we made a few mistakes and we hurt ourselves a few times,” said Head Coach Scott Frost after the game. “Those are the things you can’t do against really good football teams.”
UCFlat Second Half Start
No points were added in the game’s third quarter for UCF, just the second time all season that the Knight had been held scoreless for fifteen. Building from a 28-point halftime scoring bonanza seemed imminent, but the effort was lacking to follow the big lead.
“Once we put up 21 points in the first quarter, everybody started playing down to a level where we shouldn’t have been playing,” admitted wide receiver Gabe Davis. “We should have just stayed up, kept scoring. We kept moving the ball, but we started getting a little complacent.”
“Players started to be a little bit lazier, started to play around more. Started talking more on the sidelines – little things like that show on the field,” said the freshman in an instance of extreme accountability.
UCF would pick things up in garbage time, notching 21 points in the fourth quarter.
Offensive Standards
UCF fans have become mad with success. The conference’s most explosive unit has spoiled those in Orlando, and players expect to move the needle on the scoreboard every time they step on the field.
“Honestly, we know it wasn’t up to our standards because we know we’re better than this. We had many opportunities to score and we had to punt it back to the other time,” said Wide Receiver TreQuan Smith.
“anytime we don’t end up scoring it’s not up to our standards,” Smith insisted. “Our coaches want to see us score every time we’re on the field.”
McKenzie Milton had his fifth 300+ yard passing game of the season, finishing with 311 yards and 2 touchdowns through the air to pair with his 57 rushing yards and ground score. He too felt the dissatisfaction.
“I think you just have to hold yourself to your own standard throughout every day, whether it’s throughout practice or in a game. I felt today we came out a little flat,” he said.
Standouts and Scores
QB | Milton: 24-36, 311 yards 2 TD; 57 rushing yards 1 TD
QB | Vedral: 1-2, 35 yards 1 TD
WR | Anderson: 9 rush 84 yards 2 TD; 1 reception 37 yards
WR | Smith: 7 receptions 120 yards 1 TD
WR | Williams: 2 receptions 17 yards 1 TD
WR | Davis: 8 receptions 95 yards



The No. 14 UCF Knights cruised to a victory at home on Veteran’s Day, improving to 9-0 against the University of Connecticut.
The Knights ran strong in the first quarter with 21 points although struggled in the second and third, closing the fourth with another three touchdowns to put away the game. UConn came within two scores after a series of botched plays and turnovers from UCF.
Huge touchdowns from Tre’Quan Smith (44-yard TD) and Otis Anderson (66-yard TD) wore down the Huskies in time to give second-string quarterback Noah Vedral playing time through close of the game.
Stay tuned with Knight News for a full game recap and post-game video.



Orlando. Fla- The men’s basketball starts off the season with a W, defeating Mercer 88 to 79. at CFE Arena in front of a packed crowd.
Unfortunately, the story of this game is injuries.  We already knew Aubrey Dawkins was out for the year, but minutes before the game it was announced Tacko Fall wasn’t suiting up.  Tacko has a sore hip, Coach Dawkins claimed it was not serious.  He didn’t give us a timetable for Tacko’s return.  It gets worse: B.J Taylor left the game after a strong drive to the basket. Coach Dawkins didn’t give us much of an update after the game, only stating it was a foot injury.
“We have been in this predicament before,” Coach Dawkins said.  “Hopefully this bug (injury bug) will go away from us, if you guys know anyone let me know”.

AJ Davis stepped up huge for UCF.  The senior knew he had to pick up his game, due to their injuries.  He played a lot of minutes at the 5 with Tacko Fall out. Davis was very effective at the 5, he grabbed 15 rebounds, and blocked 3 shots.  This also had a positive impact on UCF’s offense, Davis is a capable ball handler, so when he gets rebounds he pushes the pace instead of having to find a guard.
Ceasar DeJesus played great in his first game at UCF, scoring 16 points on 66% shooting.  DeJesus is a pretty finisher, using his euro-step effectively on multiple occasions.
“He is definitely a scorer, I haven’t seen anyone finish the way he does, it looks crazy to me every time,” AJ Davis said about DeJesus.
Chance McSpadden had a great first game back after missing all last year due to injury. He was given the job of guarding Mercer’s leading scorer in the second half.  Coach Dawkins said that will be his role on the team.  Chance was effective on the offensive end as well.  Scoring 13 points on 60% shooting.
Knights win⚔️⚔️ UCF defeats Mercer 88-79 in their season-opener at home! #goknights
A post shared by KnightNews.com (@ucfknightnews) on Nov 10, 2017 at 7:47pm PST

“He was the only player when I first got here in my one on one meeting that said coach I like to play defense,” Coach Dawkins praised.  “He really does take pride in his matchup.”
The team played a totally different style then UCF fans are used to.  They were getting out and running, over and over.  Coach Dawkins told us this would be the case, but much of this was due to Tacko’s injury.  They had to play small, which led to their rebounders also being ball handlers.  It also opened the lane a little bit on offense.  With AJ Davis at the 5 the lane was open, helping our wings get to the basket.
“Tacko is one of a kind, so when he is not in there it is a whole different style of play,” AJ Davis said. “We are a little bit more scrappy, moving around a little bit more, we like to take a couple of more chances when he is not in there.”
The team showed a lot of depth, many players stood out.  Four players scored in double digits.  9 players played more than 10 minutes.  This team should be able to sustain success even with their injury bug.
UCF takes on Gardner-Webb this Wednesday at CFE arena.  The game starts at 7:00, and will air on ESPN 3.



