University of Central Florida Professor of Environmental Science & Public Administration – and hurricane expert – Christopher Emrich interviewed with Knight News Wednesday on the impact of Irma on Central Florida.
Hear about Hurricane Irma disaster and crisis management from Emrich:

Update: University of Central Florida to remain closed through Tuesday.
A transcript of the interview:
What impact would a hurricane like Irma on an inland city, such as Orlando, and a coast city, such as Miami?
I think, fortunately, the path of the storm means an impact in Orlando is much less than it could have been – we should still expect to see category 1 force winds here. As compared to a city like Miami, they will see storm surges because that front-right quadrant will push that storm surge directly into the shore. We’re much better off being in the center of the state.
What can we expect as Texas recovers in terms of transportation, communication, shelter and more, using trend data from previous major disasters?
I think what we should expect to see, and what everyone should expect, is that if the power goes out it could stay out for as long as one to two weeks. That will cause us a lot of problems with communication and transportation will be a problem because we’ll have lots of down trees, downed power lines so we should expect not to be able to drive anywhere for days, if not for a week or two.
Lessons learned from hurricanes Andrew, Sandy and Katrina, and how Harvey compares. Are we seeing the same mistakes repeated?
I think that hurricanes we’ve seen in the past, specifically Andrew in Florida, have led to stronger building codes; I think we have buildings that are much better constructed. That being said, this is likely the most powerful hurricane on record so the impacts are going to felt hard across the state. I don’t think there is any amount of preparedness that could get us absolutely ready for a storm like this. The biggest thing is to be prepared have food, have a good shelter and plan.
Remember: run from water, hide from winds. that means find a good interior place in your domicile, in your apartment or house to take shelter from those winds; a place without windows that you could be protected from the storm.
How will the impacts of Harvey compare with the impact of Irma?
I think what happened with Harvey was catastrophic in that the storm did not pass through, it wavered and then stayed and circled back. I think what we’ll see here is the storm passing through relatively quickly. We won’t see a lot of standing water for days and days and days which caused that problem specifically in the Houston area. Of course, whenever you lose electricity, and systems that are cooling systems that are meant to maintain specific temperatures, we’ll often see problems if that power stays out for days.
That's my amazing colleague talking his expertise. https://t.co/769F400fn8
— Staci Zavattaro (@StaciwithaZ) September 6, 2017

@spaucf faculty expert on #IrmaHurricane #HurricaineIrma @ASPANational @naspaa @DrEcoclaire @UCF @SECMatASPA https://t.co/r2mKTFALOL
— Dr. Naim Kapucu (@nkapucu) September 7, 2017

Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF hurricane-related information.



Although the University of Central Florida does not serve as a public hurricane ride-out shelter, students that live in on-campus communities will have options that keep them safe while Irma passes through.
UCF has instructed these students to move to safe off-campus locations if possible or follow relocation procedures.
Students in On-Campus Housing
Although university housing remains open at this time, UCF urges students who live on campus to move to safe off-campus locations by noon on Friday, Sept. 8.
Should Hurricane Irma threaten Central Florida, students who live on campus may not be able to stay in their on-campus locations and may be required to relocate to designated ride-out locations.
Students with special needs should make plans now to relocate off campus.
During a storm like Irma, the university cannot guarantee that power and water won’t be interrupted at ride-out locations. Additionally, food, water, and medical assistance will be limited.
UCF will share more information about ride-out options should it be required. As a reminder, the university does not serve as a public shelter during hurricanes.
Shuttles will be available to take students to the Publix Super Market located at the University Palms Shopping Center from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7, UCF said. More information on grocery shuttles is available here.
No other shuttle routes will be available.
Shuttles will be available to/from Publix Super Market from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7.
No other shuttle routes will be available.
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 6, 2017

UCF canceled all classes and programs beginning Thursday, September 7 through Monday, September 11 to allow students to evacuate and prepare for Hurricane Irma.
In anticipation of Hurricane Irma’s impact, all academic programs and classes are canceled starting Thursday, Sept. 7, to allow for sufficient preparations and travel needs. Faculty and staff should report as usual on Thursday to secure their offices, research and to take care of other issues,” UCF said.
The campus will close on Friday, Sept. 8 and remain closed through the weekend and on Monday, Sept. 11. University facilities will be inaccessible, with the exception of Spectrum Stadium for Friday night’s football game.
This decision — which affects all classes, including those conducted online – will allow time for students, faculty, and staff to make safety preparations.
This closure includes the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, Health Sciences at Lake Nona campus and Center for Emerging Media in downtown Orlando, all of which follow main campus closure protocols. UCF regional locations will follow the decisions made by their respective host state college.
All UCF Classes Cancelled, Campus Closed for Hurricane Irma

Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all your UCF hurricane-related updates.



All classes and campus operations will be closed Thursday, September 7 through Monday, September 11 in anticipation of Hurricane Irma, a Category 5 storm on its path through the Caribbean.
The University of Central Florida’s Department of Emergency Management has monitored the 185 mph Hurricane Irma with UCF administrators who decided to close the university to allow students to prepare and evacuate.
“In anticipation of Hurricane Irma’s impact, all academic programs and classes are canceled starting Thursday, Sept. 7, to allow for sufficient preparations and travel needs. Faculty and staff should report as usual on Thursday to secure their offices, research and to take care of other issues,” UCF said early Wednesday afternoon.
“The campus will close on Friday, Sept. 8 and remain closed through the weekend and on Monday, Sept. 11. University facilities will be inaccessible, with the exception of Spectrum Stadium for Friday night’s football game.”
The closure affects all homework and assignment deadlines – including online classes. Students with specific questions should contact their professors and faculty members.
The Rosen College of Hospitality Management will be closed as well.
Students in On-Campus Housing
Although university housing remains open at this time, UCF urges students who live on campus to move to safe off-campus locations by noon on Friday, Sept. 8.
Should Hurricane Irma threaten Central Florida, students who live on campus may not be able to stay in their on-campus locations and may be required to relocate to designated ride-out locations.
Students with special needs should make plans now to relocate off campus.
During a storm like Irma, the university cannot guarantee that power and water won’t be interrupted at ride-out locations. Additionally, food, water and medical assistance will be limited.
UCF will share more information about ride-out options should it be required. As a reminder, the university does not serve as a public shelter during hurricane
–
The UCF-Memphis game has been moved from Saturday at 8 p.m. to Friday at 6:30 p.m.
Hurricane Irma has escalated to a Category 5 hurricane at 185 miles per hour, five miles per hour short of the all-time Atlantic record.
Florida Governor Rick Scott declared a state of emergency for all Florida counties and also rescinded highway weight restrictions for emergency supplies coming into the state.
The Governor suspended all tolls on Florida roadways until further notice while Irma continues.
Breaking: @FLGovScott has announced the suspension of all tolls on Florida roadways beginning 5 p.m. #IrmaUCF
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 5, 2017

“Finally, now is the time to prepare, not panic,” the university stated.
“Take precautions, such as developing a plan or building a hurricane safety kit, to evacuate or ride out the storm. A good hurricane safety kit should allow you to survive on your own for 72 hours and include basic survival essentials like water, food, communication tools and flashlights.”
“Your safety remains UCF’s No. 1 priority. Our Department of Emergency Management will continue to track Hurricane Irma in partnership with the National Weather Service, and we will make decisions with your well-being in mind.”
The Florida Attorney General’s Office launched a price-gouging hotline for prevent and penalize suppliers and stores from over-pricing emergency supplies such as gasoline, food, water, and more.
Florida Attorney General’s Office launched price-gouging hotline to prevent/penalize over-priced emergency supplies #IrmaUCF pic.twitter.com/aVSZYesfUk
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 6, 2017

FEMA’s interactive flood map shows most of the UCF main campus clear of flood zones, given a 12-inch rain fall in a 24-hour period.
UCF flood zones from @fema – one foot of rain in a 24-hr period affects mostly UCF Arboretum #IrmaUCF pic.twitter.com/GRh9egALAJ
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 6, 2017

Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF hurricane-related coverage.



By: Dan Wolff
ORLANDO, Fla.-  UCF opens American Athletic Conference play this weekend, hosting the surging Memphis Tigers.  Memphis has revitalized its program in recent years winning 27 of their last 38 and enters the game 1-0 in 2017. USA Today picked Memphis to win the American Conference West this year after finishing 9-5 in Head Coach Mike Norvell’s first season at the helm.
The offense returns 9 of 11 starters from last year, including Senior Quarterback Riley Ferguson.
“[Riley is] a veteran kid who has played a lot of football. He is going to provide us with a bunch of challenges,” said Knights’ Head Coach Scott Frost.  “Ferguson Throws the ball down the field well, he can beat you with his legs if you fall asleep on him.”
Memphis ranked 11th in total offense last year, and 19th in passing offense.  They scored over 40 points a game with Ferguson under center.
Last week the Tigers played on a sloppy field, Ferguson had a rough night.  Starting senior running back Donald Dorceus only had two carries because of tweak injury.   The two sophomores behind him stepped up, and carried the Tigers to victory.  Darrell Henderson and Patrick Taylor Jr. ran for a combined 300 yards, and 3 touchdowns. Two of those touchdowns went for 50 plus yards. Big plays have been key to the Tigers success on offense.
“You know they are a very well-balanced team. I think the key will be keeping the ball in front of us.  Trying to make them drive the ball instead of 3 plays 90 yards.  Keep the ball in front of you, tackle, play another play,” said Knights’ safety Tre Neal.
That’s going to prove to be a challenge for Neal and the rest of the UCF secondary.  This group is still unproven, and Memphis marches out Anthony Miller.  Anthony Miller has broken all of Isaac Bruce’s records at Memphis.  Last year He had 95 receptions for 1,435 yards, along with 14 touchdowns.
On the other side of the ball Memphis returns 5 out of 7 defensive lineman and linebackers.  The linebackers are a solid crew of veterans, and they are rather quick to the ball, but will be without the services of starting linebacker Jackson Dillon, contributing linebacker Darian Porter and starting nose tackle Jared Gentry – huge losses for the Tigers.
The secondary did lose 3 out of 4 starters in the offseason, an easy place for UCF will to test the limits of this secondary after an explosive week one.  McKenzie Milton is coming off his best game as a Knight, and I’m sure he is itching to attack this secondary.
“They are a good team.  Very high-powered offense, it’s going to be a shootout.  We can’t leave missed plays on the field.  We must do everything we can to take advantage of every opportunity.  We know their offense is going to put up points,” Tre’ Quan Smith stated Monday afternoon.
This is going to a measuring stick game for the Knights as the first competitive game of the season. UCF’s schedule doesn’t get any easier from here with the bulk of conference play remaining and strong opponents in Georgia Tech and Maryland, so winning these tough games at home will be key to continued growth this season.



