As Irma approaches Central Florida, the University of Central Florida has opened its hurricane ride-out locations to all students, according to university police.
In a message posted on Twitter, UCF alerted students that, “students who live off campus and prefer to relocate to an on-campus ride-out location can come to the Nicolson School of Communication.”
Students who are interested in going to the on-campus ride-out location must enter campus via University Blvd before 10 pm. tonight. Students who chose to ride-out the storm on campus will be allowed to park their vehicle on campus in Garage A.
Students who decide to relocate to the on-campus ride-out location, are encouraged to pack enough water, food, medication, etc. to sustain them for at least 72 hours and bring “practical comforts” such as pillows and phone chargers.
Knight News spoke with UCF PD Chief of Police about the ride-out location conditions: “the power will more than likely go out and there are no windows. It’s going to get hot, there are no showers and it’s going to be a long weekend. That’s the cold, hard reality of it.”
To read what else Chief Beary had to say about the storm, click here.




The University of Central Florida will remain closed through Tuesday, September 12 due to Hurricane Irma.
“UCF made this decision to allow additional time to assess the impact Irma has on students, faculty and staff — and their families. The university urges Knights everywhere to stay safe before, during and after the hurricane,” the university said.
“This closure includes the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, Health Sciences at Lake Nona campus and Center for Emerging Media in downtown Orlando, all of which follow main campus closure protocols. UCF regional locations will follow the decisions made by their respective host state college.”
Hurricane Irma has returned to Category 5 strength and will be expected to make landfall in the Naples area.
Original story:
All UCF Classes Cancelled, Campus Closed for Hurricane Irma




