The Chick-fil-A on University Boulevard is constantly filled with people, and for years, one of those people was Police Officer Norman Lewis.
Lewis loved Chick-fil-A and visited the restaurant multiple times a week, Fox 35 Orlando reported on Tuesday.
Employees of the restaurant were devastated after hearing about the loss of Deputy. Orange County Deputy Norman Lewis died in a crash while helping search for a man who is accused of killing Orlando police officer Debra Clayton.
So now, the restaurant is honoring the fallen deputy by creating a ‘Missing Man Table’ for Lewis.
”
Lewis also frequented the RaceTrac on University, where his big smile and hugs brightened the mood of everyone who worked there.
I still can’t even believe it,” one employee told Fox 35 Orlando, “I’m not gonna be able to get, or give him another hug.”
The funeral for Deputy Norman Lewis will be held at First Baptist Church of Orlando on Friday at 11:00 a.m.
The manhunt for the suspect Lewis was searching for at the time of his death is still ongoing, and the reward for his apprehension now stands at $100,000.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continues updates.



Funeral services for the Orlando Police Department’s Debra Clayton and Orange County Sheriff’s Office Norman Lewis will be held this week on Friday and Saturday, respectively.
The UCF and Orlando community are invited to attend both services, which will be held at First Baptist Orlando – 3000 S. John Young Parkway, Orlando.
Deputy First Class Lewis’ service will begin at 11 a.m. Friday, January 13 and Master Sgt. Clayton’s service begins at 2 p.m. Saturday, January 14. Clayton will be laid to rest that day at Woodlawn Cemetery, 400 Woodlawn Cemetery Road in Gotha. Lewis will be laid to rest at a later date in his hometown of Port Charlotte, Florida.
The College of Health and Public Affairs graduates were well known in their communities and have received an outpouring of support across the nation.
“Master Sgt. Clayton and Deputy First Class Lewis dedicated their lives to making our community safer, and they were outstanding role models,” said UCF President John C. Hitt.
“Our UCF family joins the Orlando Police Department and Orange County Sheriff’s Office in mourning their deaths.”
Master Sgt. Debra Clayton earned a bachelor’s degree in Public Administration in 1998 and a master’s degree in Criminal Justice in 2002, UCF stated. For 17 years, Clayton served the Orlando community with the Orlando Police Department.
Deputy First Class Norman Lewis earned a bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice in 2004 and played for the UCF Knights football team from 2000-3. From 2005 to January 9, he served with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
“They are heroes and Knights forever,” Hitt concluded.
Original story:
The UCF community is mourning along with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office and the Orlando Police Department after two law enforcement officers were killed in the line of duty today.
Deputy 1st Class Norman Lewis and Master Sgt. Debra Clayton were both UCF alumni, the UCF Police Department said in a tweet containing the picture used in this story.
Master Sgt. Clayton, a 17-year veteran of the Orlando Police Department, was killed trying to apprehend Markeith Loyd, 41, who is accused of killing his pregnant ex-girlfriend in December.
Loyd is still on the run, with a $60,000 reward being offered for anyone with information leading to his capture.
Master Sgt. Clayton loved and was deeply committed to the community she served, Orlando Police Chief John W. Mina said at a press conference today. She was involved in several mentorship programs for children in the Pine Hills and Parramore communities, he said.
According to the UCF Police Department, Master Sgt. Clayton earned a degree in Public Administration from UCF in 1998, and a master’s in Criminal Justice in 2002.
While searching for the man who killed Master Sgt. Clayton, Deputy 1st Class Norman Lewis’ motorcycle was hit by a van on Pine Hills Road.
Deputy Lewis, an 11-year veteran of the department, died at the hospital.
Deputy Lewis will be remembered by his “million dollar smile and consummate professionalism,” The Orange County Sheriff’s Office said in a tweet.
A former offensive lineman for the UCF football team, Deputy Lewis earned a bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice in 2004, the UCF Police Department said.
“Master Sgt. Clayton and Deputy First Class Lewis dedicated their lives to making our community safer, and they were outstanding role models,” UCF President John Hitt said in a statement.
“Our UCF family joins the Orlando Police Department and Orange County Sheriff’s Office in mourning their deaths. They are heroes and Knights forever.”



The Express Printing Lab in the University of Central Florida Student Union has merged with the main printing lab on the second floor of the Union as of the Spring Semester.
UCF officials merged the labs together to improve the efficiency of service and economy of space.
“There’s less personnel costs and increased efficiency in managing a single location,” UCF News and Information Communications Coordinator Rachel Williams said. “Merging the labs has created space for a future All-Gender Restroom, a Mother’s Room and a permanent Reflection Room.”
The primary printing lab can be found on the second floor of the Student Union across from the stairs. Students can print and scan for free with their UCF ID card.
The added space hopes to begin construction in the Spring 2017 semester.



