ORLANDO, Fla. – For the second consecutive season, UCF is staring down the barrel at the potential of losing their allotted bye week in a wicked act of unfortunate circumstance.
In 2016 the Knights played a makeup game against Tulane in the tenth week of the college football season after a last-minute scratch in the shadow of Hurricane Matthew; in 2017 the program is in aggressive pursuit of adding a make-up game resulting from Hurricane Irma’s far-reaching influence.
“We’re working really hard to try and find an eleventh game,” insisted UCF Athletic Director Danny White last week. “I don’t want this team – they’ve worked too hard – they deserve to play at least eleven. We’re exhausting all options. We want to make sure that we get an eleventh game, and we’re working, we have a lot of irons in the fire trying to figure it out.”
The idea that UCF could replace that bye week does seem to be more and more of a concrete eventuality than a marginal pipe dream, but as fans in Orlando know all too well, nothing is certain until your opponent takes the field. With the hope slowly emerging for another game gaining ground as an eventuality, the program has begun to mentally steel themselves for the challenge ahead.
“It’s not ideal,” said Head Coach Scott Frost about the potential change. “I liked where our bye week was when I saw the schedule came out.”
“The good thing this year compared to last year is that last year the bye week got changed on us last minute, so we didn’t get a chance to give our kids any time off. There was no time to recover physically, there was no time to get rested, the one benefit this year compared to last year is these guys had about five or six days off. That should help us. We’re going to have a long stretch here of ten straight games – hopefully, if we get another game scheduled.”
Challenging or not, there isn’t a player or coach on the team who would tell you that they would rather turn in for an extra week of rest than fit an opponent, any opponent, into the mix. The benefits of getting in the game are huge for every square inch of the program, even beyond the hashmarks.
Playing an eleventh game that week brings back suspended players Nevelle Clarke and Tristan Payton back a week earlier. It appeases season ticket holders to some extent for the loss of the Georgia Tech game. An eleventh game also provides an outstanding opportunity to further another run at bowl-game eligibility.
There’s just one place off the field that the game might hurt – recruiting. Coaches normally take that time to do some of their more extensive in-season recruiting, visiting kids that are far from local and checking out a couple of games. It’s
“We’ll have to get out on a Thursday afternoon or a Friday night and go see some games,” said Offensive Coordinator Troy Walters on making up the time. “So, we’ll make adjustments and keep rolling, but first and foremost, we’ve got to win games,” he continued.
“We’ll find ways to recruit, it’s easier to recruit when you’re winning games. That’s the key and that’s the focus – to win football games.”
Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander had similar comments about the situation, and added on that the proximity of UCF’s heavy in-state recruiting focus is a huge boost for situations like this.
“Obviously we couldn’t go out during the hurricane, all the schools were closed so you’re going to lose a week on the road for recruiting, but fortunately being in the state of Florida, most of the players that we want come from the state of Florida, so we can get a lot of them here to a lot of our games,” Chinander explained.
“When we were other places, we were flying across the country during our bye week. Here we’re driving to Miami, we’re driving to Ft. Lauderdale, we’re driving to Tallahassee, so I think we can get those kids here and then maybe on a Thursday night or Friday night for games we can get there and see them.”
Nothing is a better teacher than experience, and for the Knights, Hurricane Matthew’s stopover during the First Frost is keeping anyone from hitting the panic button.
“That’s a little bit above my head right there,” admitted Chinander. “It’s for the head coach to have a plan and I know he’s going to have a great plan for us moving forward. He’s been in situations like this where we play a lot of games in a row, some of us have been to the NFL where sometimes you play twelve games in a row. To me, I don’t really care. I don’t really care when our bye week is, I don’t care if we get one, I just want to play.”
For now, we can only wait for official word on the status of UCF’s scheduled bye week, making for what could be a very important lazy Saturday in October.



ORLANDO, Fla. – Living in the consequence of a schedule altered by state-wide emergency, suspended UCF Defensive Back Nevelle Clarke and Wide Receiver Tristan Payton will not be unavailable to return to action until after the Knights’ October 21st game against Navy. There has not been an increase in the suspension’s game length, only a push back of the date UCF will take the field a seventh time.
The dup was handed a six-game suspension in December of 2016 for violating NCAA mandated drug tests leading up to UCF’s Cure Bowl appearance. Terms of the suspension dictated by NCAA policy mandated that the two would miss six-games, minimum.
Originally that meant surviving without two of the team’s top talents until the East Carolina game at Spectrum Stadium on October 14th. It meant missing two conference games in Memphis and Cincinnati, as well as FIU, Georgia Tech, Maryland, and Maine.
With the movement of their schedule – canceling the Georgia Tech game and replacing Maine with Memphis – UCF will not play their sixth game until October 21st, a road trip to Annapolis against a respected Navy team.
The ambiguity on their return to the team will depend on if UCF is able to nail down an eleventh game during their scheduled bye week. If so, Clarke and Payton will make a triumphant return to an easier level of competition in the form of a late-add FCS opponent. If not, the two will get their first taste of the 2017 college football season November 4th in a conference matchup against SMU in Dallas.
Unless the Knights announce drastic changes to a NCAA policy, missing an extra conference game may serve a huge blow. Granted, the addition of ECU is a minor task in comparison to slaying extremely tough competition in Memphis and Cincinnati, but anything can happen on any given Saturday.



ORLANDO, Fla. – It has felt like an eternity without football in Central Florida, existing in strange paradox where UCF fans were forced to the sidelines to watch as the college football season rolled right along without them. Even the other teams affected in week two were able to get back to a semblance or regularity with relative quickness, but circumstances called for a longer pause in Orlando.

Finally, with the community well on the road to recovery from Hurricane Irma, the Knights are back to focusing on the gridiron.
“Well it’s early, but Monday felt like Monday for the first time in a couple of weeks a day felt like it’s supposed to feel,” said Head Coach Scott Frost. “Players responded well, I thought they came out and practiced really well today, so hopefully we’re taking the first step to getting back to a regular schedule.”
Thursday and Friday were both days to shake the rust off, regroup and begin the process of mentally locking into the process again before taking the weekend off. It was the first football UCF had really sniffed since the Friday’s pregame activities leading into the cancelled.
Memphis game, but not the first time they had progressed as a team in that time span.
Helping alongside the National Guard, hunkering down together in the dorms to outlast the storm of the century, filling sandbags and working at the food bank – the Knights jumped at the chance to be productive in some fashion without football.
“We had a number of guys here and a good piece of the team here, we didn’t want to sit on our hands and do nothing. We lifted both mornings and then we went and did things and then our players really answered the call. We didn’t make it mandatory but we told them we had some opportunities to go out and help people in the community and the guys responded in force,” said Frost.
“I was with the group that did sandbags and most of those guys worked hard, hopefully, we made a little bit of a difference there. Sounds like they really worked hard at the food bank. Those are two small things, but when people are hurting and when there is damage in the area, we have an army of guys here and we’re going to be looking for ways we can help.”
Hurricane Irma afforded one of those rare moments when the pulse of the city around you trumps even the most sacred of days, a college football Saturday. It gave the opportunity to do better for the community, to strengthen the bond between the University of Central Florida and the city that supports it.
The benefits from such altruistic actions flow both ways in situations like this. Chemistry, camaraderie, and confidence are all birthed from moments like this.
“Anytime you can go do something as a team that doesn’t have to do with football, I think it helps you,” he insisted. “Watching those guys work together, filling sandbags, was fun for me. Seeing which guys were working hard and which guys were helping each other, all of those things bring your team closer together. This team we have this year, I think is going to respond to any curveballs that are thrown a lot better than our team last year, and a lot of it has to do with how close-knit these guys are.”
Maryland will be the perfect test, a redemptive shot at the team that brought UCF to its knees in a dogfight of a game, winning in overtime after stopping McKenzie Milton in his first start. This weekend, we find out if the bonds built during a category five storm are strong enough to withstand a favored Maryland team.



