The University of Central Florida has stormed into the NCAA rankings, coming in at No. 25 in the AP top-25 poll.
After posting a 61-17 score against FIU, 38-10 score against the Big 10’s Maryland in College Park, and a pummeling of conference foe University of Memphis at home 40-13, the Knights have made a statement.

UCF has outscored its three opponents 139-40. Each of those teams has lost only to UCF. And up until garbage time at the end of the Memphis matchup, the Black and Gold held their opponents to only one touchdown.
Sophomore Adrian Killins was electric for the Knights, compiling 183 total yards and two highly impressive scoring plays – one through the air and one on the ground. Killins ran 96 yards for a touchdown, breaking the American Athletic Conference record for longest touchdown run from scrimmage while also holding the second-longest NCAA FBS run for a touchdown from scrimmage, currently.
Adrian Killins breaks AAC record for longest TD run from scrimmage (96yds) – currently 2nd longest in NCAA FBS #ChargeOn
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) October 1, 2017

ESPN Power Rankings had the Knights come in at No. 19 – three spots ahead of rival USF at No. 22.
“The Knights definitely look like a contender for the New Year’s Six,” stated the Power Ranking.
UCF forced four total turnovers when facing the Tigers: three interceptions and one fumble recovery. The Knights secondary more than held their own against a presumed future NFL quarterback in Memphis’ Riley Ferguson.
Last time the Knights ran over 300+ yards rushing was Sept. 3, 2011, against Charleston Southern #GoKnights
— Tyler Graddy (@TylerGraddyKN) October 1, 2017

UCF flies to Cincinnati on October 7 at 8 p.m. Knight News will be there to bring you all of your UCF Football coverage.
 
UCF Pummels Memphis 40-13 in First Conference Game of the Season




Limbitless Solutions opened their brand-new on-campus lab space in Knights Plaza, right across from CFE Arena ahead of Saturday’s victory against Memphis.
Knight News interviewed College of Engineering and Computer Science Dean Michael Georgiopoulos, UCF Provost Dale Whittaker, and Limbitless President Albert Manero on the lab opening and its impact on the Central Florida:

“The new space will be used to work on hardware and the custom expression for the designs. It will also be the site for families to learn more about the program,” UCF said.
“The team hopes the space to be at full function by early 2018.”
Four children who received 3D printed electromyographic bionic arms helped Limbitless Solutions open its new headquarters. These children gave small tours of the lab and led the March to Victory down East Plaza Drive to Spectrum Stadium.



Orlando Fla. – UCF’s defense swarmed the Memphis Tigers and held the 30th ranked offense in the NCAA to 13 points.
Memphis scored on their first drive and did not score again until the very last play of the game.
“I’m just kind of a spectator when the defense is on the field cause those coaches got it and those players got it,” said Head Coach Scott Frost. “It’s fun to watch.”
UCF forced four total turnovers; three interceptions and one fumble recovery. The Knights secondary more than held their own against a presumed future NFL quarterback in Memphis’ Riley Ferguson.
“The secondary played great,” Frost said. “That’s a really difficult game for a secondary; they run the ball so well, they got good weapons on the outside, they run the RPO. You gotta be at the right place, at the right time. I can’t say enough about those guys.”
UCF’s red-shirt freshman corner Brandon Moore stepped up big. He made a huge pass break-up on third-in-one early in the first quarter, which led to a turnover on downs by Memphis. Later, Moore broke up another pass on what looked like a sure touchdown for Memphis on third-and two in the fourth quarter. He wrestled the ball out of the Memphis receivers’ hands to force a fourth-and-two, which led to another turnover on downs
“I thought Brandon Moore and Mike Hughes played great,” Frost said. The safeties played great. Just an unbelievable performance.”
The Knights’ junior college transfer cornerback, Mike Hughes caught his second interception in the last two games after red-shirt freshman safety Richie Grant tipped a Ferguson pass, which fail right into his waiting arms.
“It feels good, Hughes said. “We talk about it all week; playing as a unit, being in the right spots at the right time. Everything just kind of fell into place.”
Red-shirt junior safety Kyle Gibson joined in on the fun in the third quarter and grabbed an interception of his own, also his second in the last two games.
“They had a great quarterback, he has a heck of an arm,” Gibson said. It just felt good just coming out there and seeing what we practiced, just playing our keys and playing ball.”
UCF’s revamped secondary has looked spectacular this season despite all four defensive backs being first year starters with the Knights. Through three games, Hughes is No. 1 in the American Athletic Conference with five pass break-ups and two interceptions. Moore is No. 6 with three pass breakups and one interception.
Kyle Gibson has a pair of interceptions on the season, Mike Hughes has returned one for a touchdown and the unit just allowed over 300 yards for the first time – and the bulk of the yardage came long after the game was in hand.
Overall, the Knights are No. 7 in the NCAA in total defense after bottling-up an elusive Memphis offense.



ORLANDO, Fla. — Adrian Killins continues to electrify the Knights’ faithful. He broke free for a 96-yard touchdown run against Memphis, which is the longest play in UCF history and an American Athletic Conference record.
“In this offense, we expect to make big plays,” Killins said. “But to set the record at UCF is a great accomplishment.”
Killins said he knew he was going to score as soon as he got to the second level and beat the safety to the sideline.
“I believe I’m the fastest guy in college football,” Killins added.

The 5-8, 152-pound Killins, previously tied Kevin Smith’s UCF record for longest run from scrimmage with an 87-yard run against Michigan in his first game as a Knight. He quickly made the statement that he is a force to be reckoned with and that he is simply faster than most.
“AK is the type of guy – he’s a big play waiting to happen. It happened a bunch last year. He’s not the biggest guy if you haven’t noticed. So, we can’t force feed him 40 carries a game. But, man, if he touches the ball 12 times, something good is going to happen. We’re going to give it to him as much as we can and keep him healthy.”
Killins had 179 total yards against Memphis. He carried the ball nine times for 115 yards and caught five catches for 64 yards. Killins also scored on a 19-yard screen pass from Mckenzie Milton.
“The touchdown pass was pretty magnificent,” Killins said. “When I caught the ball, I heard the crowd say, ‘oooh.’  When I caught the ball, I saw the o-lineman cut two guys and from that point on I knew it was a touchdown.”
Killins was the first player to commit after Scott Frost was named head coach. He fits Frost’s offense to a tea.
“When I saw that Coach Frost got here, I instantly sent my film to UCF because him coming from Oregon,” Killins said. “My objective is to play in a high-caliber offense that goes fast and plays speedy guys like me. “So, I knew I came to this offense, I can do great things to help win championships and division championships and national championships as well; we’re on that road to do that.”
Frost compared Killins to Dash from the movie, The Incredibles.
“I call him dash,” Frost said. “Have you guys seen Dash from The Incredibles? That’s kind of what AK is like. He hit the corner and he was gone.”



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF (3-0) left no questions on the field while cruising to their first 3-0 start since 2013, picking apart the once-undefeated Memphis Tigers (3-1) with apparent ease (and fun) in a 40-13 victory at Spectrum Stadium.
“I love being these guys’ coach. That was an unbelievable performance by our guys,” said Head Coach Scott Frost. “We beat a really good team tonight and we out-played them.”
The Knights didn’t just put their heads down and power through a nasty conference battle. They owned this field, churning out 603 yards of total offense while keeping Memphis out of the end zone for all but the first and final Tigers’ possession.

At every big juncture of this game, there was a Knight making a head-turning play on both sides of the ball. Adrian Killins exploded for 179 all-purpose yards and two touchdowns to lead the offense, setting records along the way. McKenzie Milton ended the day with 19 completions on 31 passes for 253 yards and three touchdowns, and the lockdown UCF defense forced four turnovers.
Kyle Gibson, Mike Hughes and even defensive lineman Seyvon Lowry each ripped an interception out of the air in an impressive shutdown of Memphis quarterback Riley Ferguson – who was proclaimed an NFL-level talent headed into this game.
“We never worry about the stats, we never worry about what is being talked about,” said linebacker Shaquem Griffin. Griffin compared the attitude to that of a track star – you may think you’re the fastest on the field, but you’ve got to be the fastest on the field every day for it to count. Nobody is better than their effort on any particular day.
Today, nobody was better than UCF, and nobody was faster than Adrian Killins. Killins first score of the day went for 96 long yards, good enough to set the record for longest run in both UCF and American Athletic Conference history. The record he broke? His own, set last year against Michigan.
“I believe I’m the fastest guy in college football,” said Killins. “In this offense, we expect to make big plays, but to set the record at UCF is a great accomplishment.”
His success set the tone for the entire offense. Having an X-factor like Killins keeps an opposing defense honest, and makes the entire unit highly dangerous.
“I think we’re the most dangerous when we can run the ball effectively,” said Milton. “When the playmakers have the ball.”
He has a fantastic point. Sure, UCF blew out FIU and put their stamp firmly on Maryland’s soil, but this was the scariest that the Knights have appeared all season long. 350 rushing yards, five touchdowns and a pair of field goals are enough to strike fear into every team left on UCF’s schedule. It just isn’t enough to look further down the road than next week, according to Frost.
“No, we aren’t going to look ahead,” said the head coach. “I think that’s the trap you fall into. No offense you guys, we’re not going to read any of your articles tomorrow. I don’t want these guys thinking they’re any good. Because really, we won three games and 3-0 doesn’t amount to anything. It doesn’t get you anywhere.”
Sure, 3-0 doesn’t physically get you anywhere. It might, however, get you ranked – whether the team is listening or not.



