ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF has advanced to the next round of the NIT, blazing their way to New York with a full-throttle 68-58 victory over Illinois.
The Knights took the lead early on, but let the game close to just a six point lead with just over two minutes left to play; it was a dramatic end to an outstanding performance in front of the first sellout crowd at CFE Arena for UCF Basketball.
Matt Williams and AJ Davis were relentless, combining for 32. BJ Taylor led the attack with 17, while Tacko Fall made his presence felt with 3 blocks and 10 rebounds.
Wednesday’s win sets UCF up for a Tuesday night semi-final against TCU at Madison Square Garden.



It’s official – CFE Arena has sold out completely for Wednesday night’s game featuring UCF and Illinois in the National Invitation Tournament Quarterfinals, UCF Athletics confirmed.
Over 10,000 fans will pack the arena for the 7 p.m. tipoff. It will be the first time in CFE Arena history that men’s basketball has sold out.
Alumni donated tickets to students to allow the current Knights to watch their fellow Knights play. UCF Athletics will host giveaways and free seating to hundreds of students, and Knights basketball will have a chance to play in New York City for the championship games with a victory tonight.

–
UCF MEN’S BASKETBALL DEFEATS NO. 1 SEED ILLINOIS STATE 63-62, COMES HOME TO CFE ARENA FOR NIT QUARTERFINALS
The UCF Men’s Basketball team will come home Wednesday for the National Invitation Tournament Quarterfinals at CFE Arena.
The Black and Gold (23-11) defeated Illinois State (28-7) 63-62 at Illinois State to proceed to the farthest any Knights basketball team has made it to the postseason.
Illinois State was the No. 1 seed in the division with UCF at No. 4 – the Redbirds automatically qualified for the NIT as regular season conference champions.
On Wednesday night, UCF stole the show in a fourth quarter finale, and, on a free throw shot made by sophomore B.J. Taylor, the Knights would claim victory.
Watch UCF Athletics history unfold on Wednesday, March 22, at 7 p.m., where the NIT Quarterfinals will take place at CFE Arena.

This is a breaking sports story. Stay tuned for a game recap.
Knights in Round 1–
UCF TAKES DOWN COLORADO BUFFALOES 79-74 AT HOME TO WIN THE FIRST ROUND OF THE NATIONAL INVITATION TOURNAMENT
The University of Central Florida Men’s Basketball team has claimed their first-ever victory in the National Invitation Tournament.
The Knights led from the beginning of the first half through the end of the game, only tying once in the second, where Colorado pushed for a lead.
As game time closed and the Buffaloes lineup brought the contest within one score, personal fouls gave Johnny Dawkins everything he needed to hold the board in favor of UCF. Twenty-four personal fouls allowed the Knights to call in seventeen points off of thirty-two attempts.
UCF led the Buffaloes 54.3%-42.3% in the field and 54.5%-27.3% from the three point line.
On Wednesday night, star players B.J. Taylor and Matt Williams once again pushed UCF one win further and another game farther into the post-season. Dawkins cautiously approached the field of play as Colorado began to narrow the score with well-placed three-pointers with pressure on keeping fouls to a minimum – only six free throw attempts were conceded through the match – and the ball in UCF’s hands while the clock ran out.
The National Invitation Tournament continues with the winner of the Illinois State versus UC Irvine at 9:30 p.m. EST. Both teams automatically qualified for the tournament as conference champions.

Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



The withdrawal deadline for the Spring 2017 semester at the University of Central Florida will be at 11:59 p.m. Wednesday night, March 22.
Before considering withdrawing from a course, or more than one course, evaluate how well you are performing in a class and the financial aid penalties that may come along with dropping a course. Scholarships may require a certain number of credit hours be achieved by the end of the academic year; some financial aid sources may require you to repay tuition from the dropped course. All of this information can be found on the UCF Financial Aid website.If you do not withdraw but fail to pass the course, grade forgiveness may be open to you, according to the Registrar’s Office. Every student is given
If you do not withdraw but fail to pass the course, grade forgiveness may be open to you, according to the Registrar’s Office. Every student is given two grade forgiveness attempts at UCF, according to the Registrar’s Office.
Refer to the Registrar’s Office page on withdrawal frequently asked questions and policies, including Grade Forgiveness policies. According to the Registrar’s Office, grade forgiveness must be done during the semester that the desired repeated class is taken by the student. Using grade forgiveness for an attempt you are unsure whether you will pass by the end of the semester may hurt you. Grades that are forgiven will be replaced with the attempt used, whether the final grade for the subsequent attempt is a passing or failing grade or a withdrawal, according to the Registrar’s Office.
Both the grade forgiveness and withdrawal process can be started in your MyUCF Student Center from the drop-down menu at the top of the page.
All academic decisions must be your own – recommendations must be made between your college advising office and you.
The deadline for grade forgiveness will be Wednesday at 11:59 p.m.
 



Over a unanimous vote by Orlando city commissioners, UCF will receive public land valued at $14.6 million as part of a pledge between the two to advance the progress of UCF Downtown.
Approximately 11 acres out of the 68 acres planned for the campus will start the first phase of the project that includes the current site for the Center for Emerging Media and Nap Ford Community School.

A University of Central Florida Board of Trustees meeting agenda shows a Memorandum of Understanding, signed by UCF President John C. Hitt, has been met by the City of Orlando and university officials.
On February 8, 2016, the memorandum received approval from the Orlando City Council and, on February 16, 2016, President Hitt signed the document to complete its approval. The agreement sets forth the terms and conditions for the city’s donation of approximately 15 acres of property to UCF.
That month, commissioners approved $75 million in commitments to the project.
The Florida Board of Governors granted approval to UCF in the year since to develop the campus, although progress would be dependent on several factors, including securing ownership of the downtown property through a donation by the city.
A Purchase and Sale agreement between the two parties outlines the specific terms for the transfer of two sites of land. According to the Board of Governor’s, the transfer of the third site will occur at a later date.

Officials break ground in downtown Orlando on May 11, 2017, where construction of the campus will soon follow this summer.
Completion of the campus and its $60 million academic building will take place in time for 7,700 planned students to take classes in August 2019.




Family, friends and members of the community watched as Cheif Richard Beary swore in four officers to the University of Central Florida Police Department.
Officers Alfonso Tejeira, Eric Bryant, Jose Morales, and Maya Tolentino have been welcomed to the UCF police force.
Alfonso Tejeira retired from the Orlando Police Department after 23 years, having received his master’s and bachelor’s degrees from FSU. Tejeira earned another bachelor’s degree in Sports and Excercise Science in 2014 – this time, from UCF – to add to his love of coaching youth sports.
Eric Bryant served 32 years with the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office prior to the start of his service with UCF PD. Bryant says he enjoys interacting with students and likes the culture of UCF PD and how everything the agency does is to protect students, staff, and visitors.
Jose Morales has received his associate’s degree and law enforcement certification from Valencia College. Morales is currently an undergraduate student at UCF, starting his first law enforcement career. Jose says he’s excited to work with so many experienced officers whom he can learn from in the UCF Police Department.
Maya Tolentino graduated from Valencia and Rollins College and was formerly a member of the Altamonte Police Department. For the past 25 years, Tolentino has lived in the UCF area and ‘nothing pleases her more than protecting and serving the community where her family lives.
Previous UCF PD swearing-in.
Photo courtesy of UCF News & Information.



Playing in front of a sold-out crowd, the University of Central Florida men’s basketball team faced Illinois and advanced to the next round of the NIT, after securing a 68-58 victory. Wednesday’s win sets the Knights up for a Tuesday night semi-final against Texas Christian University at Madison Square Garden in New York City. 



Thirty-six cars were broken into early Tuesday morning during a possible gang initiation, according to the UCF Police Department.
UCF Police Chief Richard Beary stated that this has been the largest vehicle break-in on campus in his career working with the university. 
UCFPD received a call around 2:50 a.m., from an eyewitness, reporting a car burglary was in process by the Lake Claire Apartments and on-campus Greek housing area. When officers, arrived four suspects, dressed in hoodies, fled the scene, in a vehicle that had been reported stolen earlier from the Apopka area. The car came to a halt, near Rouse Road, after it crashed into a median and flattened the car’s tires. The suspects ditched the crash vehicle and fled on foot. 
Police were not able to locate them.
Please RT. Recognize him? He's a suspect in last night's vehicle break-ins at Lake Claire Apartments. Call UCFPD at 407-823-5555 with info. pic.twitter.com/mVtOoAQ60B
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) March 21, 2017

Recent alleged gang initiations have included breaking the windows of vehicles and stealing valuables such as electronics and wallets. From Winter Park to the city of Orlando, various gang members are scouting for vehicles that have visible items inside. Most the monetary damage has come from the burglarized vehicles rather than the stolen property. At least a dozen suspects have been apprehended in connection to the auto-theft surge, but Beary states that campus is still a target.
While UCF police recognize a need to keep the UCF campus area safe, Beary, emphasized that whatever crimes happen around UCF, it is still subject to happen to students. “There is no bubble around campus,” Beary said.
Beary ruled out the possibility of adding more cameras to the university, saying that Florida weather often damages them, and they tend to be expensive without preventing crime. 
Instead, UCF police have often provided students with tips on how to minimize the chance their vehicle could be targeted for burglary, such as leaving expensive items at home. 
UCF police also provide a website where students can register their electronics and other items in the event they are stolen on campus. When the stolen property is recovered by police, the serial number can determine the owner for a simple return.
Beary wants students to direct their frustrations to the alleged gang initiations as the source to the burglary, instead of blaming the university or other factors for the theft. 
UCF police are focused on finding the suspects and minimizing future gang initiations near campus. “Remember to be angry at the bad guys,” said Beary. 



