During this year’s Student Government Association Presidential race, allegations of bribery were made against the Nick Larkins and Cristina Barreto Ticket.
Knight News requested documents relating to the allegations made against the Nick and Christina Ticket.
Larkins’ accuser (who’s identity has been redacted by UCF) cites in his “Election Violation Report,” Title 6, Chapter 600.D, of the SGA Statutes. It states bribery is constituted by: “A prize, reward, gift or favor bestowed or promised with a with to influence the action of another to vote, not vote, or vote for or against a particular candidate/ticket and/or any other item on the ballot, in any way. Any item distributed by the Election Commission shall not constitute bribery.”
In the accuser’s report, the accuser describes how Larkins not only allegedly promised positions to the accuser but also to other individuals:
“Nicholas Larkins has offered many different Executive cabinet positions to different students in order to influence their vote. This is backed up by Larkins saying during the debate that he offered another candidate the position of Attorney General (at approximately 24 minutes in the official debate video by the Nicholson School of Communication). Larkins believed that I was going to attempt a run for SGA President. To stop this, he threatened to ‘destroy’ me and said he would make sure I would never have a future in SGA again. Directly after this the candidate said that if I were to support him and vote for him I could have any position I wanted on his cabinet-while explicitly naming the Director of Campus Life position. These positions are sought after by a large number of students and to offer one directly to students is certainly a ‘favor bestowed or promised with a view to influence the action of another to vote, not vote, or vote for or against a particular candidate/ ticket.’”
The accuser closed by adding a text message conversation that appears to be from Larkins to the accuser dated 11/10/16. In the text, it appears as though Larkins requested a walk with the accuser later that day.
The accuser writes in his report, “This is the text message that the candidate sent me before we went on ‘a walk.’ It was during this time that the bribery happened.”
Along with the accusers’ story of alleged bribery, the accuser also submitted a list of five students who have also been promised positions by Larkins.  Unfortunately UCF has redacted these names from the report.
Knight News emailed UCF asking for a non-redacted copy of this report, but so far has only received an email from SGA President Christopher Clemente where he said, “TLDR.”
TLDR appears to mean: Too Long, Didn’t Read. 
Larkins did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 



The UCF community is rallying behind one of its fellow Knights following a tragic motorcycle accident.
Radley Gillis, a junior at UCF and member of Phi Delta Theta, was admitted to the hospital Tuesday evening following the accident.
Since then, hundreds of Knights have come together to raise over $12,000 via GoFundMe just two hours after the campaign was created.
Students can donate to support Radley and his family by clicking the link to his GoFundMe.
This is a developing story, stay tuned to Knight News for continued updates.



ORLANDO, Fla. – The reigning American Athletic Conference Defensive player of the year has announced that he will test the draft process following a breakout sophomore season, but will not hire an agent – allowing the seven-foot-six-inch center to retain his eligibility.
“This is a tremendous opportunity for Tacko,” UCF men’s basketball head coach Johnny Dawkins said.
“He will be able to learn more about himself and his game during this process and we will be there to help him along the way.”
Fall will participate in the combine, and has until May 24th to remove his name from NBA Draft consideration in favor of a return to college athletics. Though he had a stellar season – leading the AAC in field goal shooting percentage (65.4%), placing second in defensive rebounds (6.0 DRPG) and in blocks (2.5 BPG) – the UCF big man is still relatively new to the game and the common opinion is that he likely needs another year of development at the collegiate level.
“This season has been by far the best I ever had. I had so much fun competing with my brothers every single day and representing the best university in the country. What we accomplished this year was special, and I am thankful to god for allowing me to be a part of it.”
“That being said, after having talked it over with my family and my coaches, I have decided to enter the NBA Draft. However, I will hold off on signing an agent keeping the option to remain in school. Thank you all for your continued support,” Tacko said in a statement via Twitter on Wednesday.
UCF’s men’s basketball team relied on Fall, as well as senior Matt Williams and fellow sophomore B.J. Taylor, as momentum-shifters in one of the program’s best seasons in UCF history. Under the leadership of Dawkins, the team earned 24 wins this past season and a trip to the NIT Semifinals in Madison Square Garden, New York City, among other milestones.
Tacko Fall’s performance earned the center the single-season record with his 75th block of the season in early March. John Friday held the record since for thirty years, 1986-87 season, with 75 blocks.
Fall adds The American Player of the Week and the Gildan Charleston Classic All-Tournament Team honors to his list of accomplishments.
The 2017 NBA Draft will take place on June 22.
 
 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



