ORLANDO, Fla. – Success for an up-and-coming group of five football program is always a double-edged sword: the success of your program is great for growth and prosperity, but a young head coach with immense potential will attract the attention of established programs with deeper pockets.
It isn’t only the head coach at risk though, as promising coordinators or assistant coaches can be lured away by the same powers at large.
“We have some really, really talented assistants – some guys that I wouldn’t want to do my job without,” insisted Frost on Monday’s weekly availability.
“I think Danny’s leadership and President Hitt’s leadership have been tremendous, and I think they are very forward thinking in making a move to make sure that we continue the progress that we started.”
UCF Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander has been coaching with Frost on and off since his stint at Northern Iowa in 2007. The pair has been on the same staff four times over their career at three institutions, coaching together for five years before rejoining in 2015 at Oregon – a combined eight years running together.
“When we were at Northern Iowa together we were roommates for a while,” recounted Chinander. “We just became friends and both of us were kind of lowly assistants back then, who knew he was going to be the head coach someday. Seemed to work out pretty well.”
2007-2008: Northern Iowa
2010 -2012: Oregon
2014-2015: Oregon
2016-Present: UCF
Chinander left Frost once in that time span to learn at the NFL level, following Chip Kelly to the Philadelphia Eagles. When Kelly’s stint ended, it meant a return to the college ranks. Returning to Oregon was easy with his former roommate running the offense in Eugene.
“Anytime in this business, you don’t want to go somewhere that you don’t know people. Sometimes you just have to take a job, or maybe you get a chance at a dream job and you don’t know people – but when you know people, whether it’s other assistants or the head coach – it makes things easier, makes the transition easier.”
“I’ve never been a guy who has gone around looking for my next job. I think you’ve just got to the best at the job you have and then good things happen.”
Frost understands that Power Five programs will have his staff under a microscope this offseason, and has recognized the UCF Excellence Fund started by Danny White as a preemptive step in retaining his valuable staff.
Chinander won’t have to go looking – major programs are going to have him in their sights. They will be able to pay handsomely for his services, too.
FSU Defensive Coordinator Charles Kelly rakes in $833,000 a year. Virginia Tech’s Bud Foster commanded $925,000 in 2016 and sees a $25,000 increase every year. Everywhere you look in Power Five programs, top-level defensive coordinators are getting paid.
“UCF has unlimited potential, and sometimes to reach that potential you have to take both steps forward and I think Danny White has been doing that since he’s been here, trying to push this program forward and this athletic department forward,” Frost encouraged.
“If we’re going to keep those guys long term, we’ve got to make sure they have a reason to stay. There’s other things surrounding the program that I think, if we’re going to treat ourselves like a big-time football program, then we need to be able to match some of the people that are.”
Danny White’s UCF Excellence Fund is out to secure annual commitments of over $1.5 million over the next five years.
In May Coach Frost signed an extension through 2021 that bumped his season base salary to $2 million per year and increased the pool for assistant coaches by $50,000. He and his staff have made an impact already in recruiting talent around the state, Chinander chief among those responsible for the talent influx on defense.
“This is such a beautiful campus and the city of Orlando is the best college town in the state of Florida in my opinion,” insisted Coach Frost. “We’re building something pretty special here and there’s recruits everywhere around this.”
Frost’s vision is coming together rapidly on the football field, but if UCF knows that this growth could become just a nice requiem from reality if their staff is poached from under them.
Consider the excellence fund recognition that the threat is real.



On Saturday, October 28, at the UCF Baseball Complex, the official groundbreaking of John Euliano Park will take place at 2 p.m. – hours before UCF Football kicks off against Austin Peay at home.
At $3.3 million, the long-awaited park will allow for an upgrade to the home plate tower, featuring a 300-seat premium club section – with outdoor seating and indoor amenities, an airconditioned lounge, food and beverage service, private restrooms, and a dedicated entrance to the space, UCF Athletics said.
John Euliano currently serves as the Vice Chair to the UCF Foundation Board of Directors. Euliano donated $1.5 million to give officials the green light on the project. Other enhancements will be made as the project expands.
Director of Athletics Danny White and baseball head coach Greg Lovelady will make remarks at the ceremony.

August 2016:
UCF Baseball Stadium to be Upgraded after $1.5 million Donation

Photo: UCF Athletics Communications



On Tuesday, October 24, John C. Hitt announced his retirement from UCF President and addressed a crowd of university administrators, staff, and media, closing 26 years of growth and service to Central Florida.
In the Fairwinds Alumni Center, Hitt held back tears as he read the words of his retirement speech and reflected on a university that grew from 21,000 students in 1991 to 66,000 present day.
Hitt also addressed media on his experience as university president, expectations for his successor, and what he sees for the future.
President Hitt’s retirement speech:




ORLANDO, Fla. – Since inking his name as Scott Frost’s first signee, Adrian Killins has become the prototypical blueprint for what the UCFast offense can offer to a young and talented skill player. He has developed into one of college football’s most explosive home-run threats, already setting and then breaking his own record of longest touchdowns from scrimmage in UCF history.
He has broken runs of 96 and 79 yards this season, matching the excitement generated from an 86-yard run his freshman year against No. 2 Michigan and a 100-yard kick return on the road against East Carolina.
Killins, a local product out of Mainland Highschool in Daytona, drew interest from the Oregon transplant with astronomical high school track numbers.
“I saw a guy a lot like I coached out west,” said Head Coach Scott Frost. “There’s not very many people in the country that run the 200 time that he did, but he was also a good football player. Our first signee was one of our best.”
“He came to us pretty fast to begin with, he’s a very ‘twitchy’ fast kid,” recalled UCF Director of Sports Performance Zach Duval. “One of the things that we really put emphasis on was his strength. Obviously, you don’t ever see a kid who is really fast that is not equally strong.”
Before Duval and his crew could get his hands on Killins the athletic trainers had to fine-tune his body. Core control, stability and balance were the first things that Killins worked on as a freshman.
“Picture a Ferrari going two hundred miles an hour down the track. Any little instability – if your front tire is down two PSI, it’s going to cause problems for you,” visualized Duval.
“Speed magnifies a lot of issues. They did a great job of getting him symmetrical, balanced front, right, left, back and increasing strength in that stability.”
“He is very unique,” explained UCF’s guru of growth. “I’ve never been around someone, not that small, but he’s definitely… his frame is not what you would normally see. He’s kind of built differently. That is new, I’ve never been around a guy like that. I’ve been around a lot of fast guys that were also big and that’s obviously what we’re trying to do with him. with all of our athletes the goal is to increase the size of their engine because a bigger engine creates more torque, more torque creates more velocity, more velocity creates more speed.”
“Twenty-one years doing this job, seeing what the majority of freshmen come in and do compared to him, he’s just a different class.”
“God blessed him with some natural ability,” Duval continued.
“For a guy his size to be able to squat 500 pounds? That’s pretty impressive, but then again, when you watch him run, it makes sense, to be able to move your body that quickly with as much velocity as he has – he has to be able to stabilize each step and then explode off of each foot.”
“Running is like plyometrics, you’ve got to have a lot of strength and power to do that. After last season he had some instability stuff from just what he does and that’s where the athletic training staff came into place.”
Duval insists that Killins’ work ethic, not his speed, will be the most determinant factor the running back’s rise to the forefront of highlight reels around the country.
“He’s not normal across the board, but how he approaches the day is a professional approach,” Duval boasts. “You don’t see that a lot with guys his age. He’s got a mindset about it, he doesn’t come in here and screw around, he doesn’t screw around in the training room and he has bought into Coach Frost’s system.”
“I know he’s fast and everyone likes to talk about that, but how he approaches things and his mental ability to dial in and work hard, that’s probably the best part about him.”
Killins leads UCF with 413 rushing yards this season and has five scores, both surpassing his freshman totals. During that first season with UCF he was banged up in the second half, putting together just 92 rushing yards and 109 receiving yards for the remainder of the season after the ECU game.
The speedy back has sung the praise of the strength and conditioning staff around him, insisting that the program has allowed him to stay on the field as a sophomore. To hear the other side of things though, Killins’ work ethic is the foundation for which a reputation for excitement has been built.
The fastest player in college football didn’t get his title on talent alone. His chance at greatness has clarified in Frost’s system, but the work put in behind the scenes will let Killins keep breaking the tape on Saturdays.



