Heading into this game, both teams knew the impact it could have on their university and The War On I-4 series.
Tonight’s UCF-USF game will be the biggest in the series for both schools – ever #GoKnights #WaronI4
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 24, 2017

It was the explosive Knights offense drilling 21 points into USF the first quarter. It was the one-man-team Quinton Flowers overpowering UCF to lead 36-28 in the fourth quarter. And a scoring volley with a screen pass to Ottis Anderson, 82-yard touchdown pass from Flowers to a wide open receiver, and explosive 95-yard kickoff return from Mike Hughes to win the game – all in 53 seconds.
At stake for the Knights was an undefeated regular season, an AAC Division title, next week’s conference championship, a potential New Year’s Six Bowl, and The War On I-4 trophy. UCF is the only team in history to go from a winless season to an undefeated season in just two years.
A dream season so far for the 11-0 Knights. A packed home rivalry game, top-25 ranking, flawless record, and nail-biting regular season finish✊⚔️ #GoKnights pic.twitter.com/XqXwZlIr8X
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 25, 2017

Friday night’s outcome means the Bulls still haven’t claimed any significant tangible achievements. No conference championship, no division championship, no undefeated season.
An electric Spectrum Stadium sellout crowd accounted for the fifth biggest crowd in UCF football history and, from the ground, it was clear to see that none of those fans left as the final points were scored with a minute to go in the fourth.
It is WILD in Spectrum Stadium right now! #UCFvsUSF pic.twitter.com/fWXjBvZxqk
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 25, 2017

47,129 in attendance today, 5th largest turnout in UCF history.#ChargeOn
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 24, 2017

Knights fans will be riding high on this win for years to come as ABC nationally broadcasted “the best game in college football this year.”
CFB game of the year?
With a division title on the line, UCF kept its perfect season alive with a bonkers 49-42 win over rival South Florida that included 3 TDs in 53 seconds. pic.twitter.com/LwPJToqgir
— ESPN (@espn) November 25, 2017

I don’t want to be a prisoner of the moment, but this #USFvsUCF game feels like the best college game this season. At least top 5, right?
— Jemele Hill (@jemelehill) November 25, 2017

Game story:
Undefeated UCF Survives 605 Yard Performance from Quinton Flowers to Win Battle in War on I4, 49-42




