As Florida Governor Rick Scott declared a statewide state-of-emergency, students and residents around the University of Central Florida prepare for what could be a catastrophic Category 4 hurricane.
Knight News went to several local supermarkets and stores in search of essential hurricane supplies, and found most stores were running low on bottled water.
Waterford Lakes Target

Neighborhood Walmart on Alafaya

Walmart on East Colonial

However, the Publix on Colonial near the EOS apartment complex still had a good amount of water on the shelves.

According to UCF, when preparing for a major hurricane, adults should have enough supplies to survive on their own for 72 hours, including a gallon of water a day.
A standard Zephyrhills bottle holds approximately 16.9 ounces, which means students will need roughly 24 bottles of water to last the 72-hour period.
Along with water, UCF also recommends:
• A three-day supply for non-perishable food
• Battery-powered or hand crank radio
• Flashlight, with extra batteries
• Matches/Lighter
• First aid kit
• Whistle to signal for help
• Moist towelettes, garbage bags and plastic ties for personal sanitation
• Can opener
• Cash
• Local maps
• Cell phone with chargers, inverter, or solar charger
• Identification cards
• Any prescription medications you may need
As of The National Weather Service’s 8 p.m. advisory, Hurricane Irma is a category 4 storm with sustained winds of 140 mph, and is projected to make landfall in Florida later this week.
To be classified as a category 5 hurricane, a storm must have sustained winds of 156 mph.
Follow @UCFKnightnews on Twitter for Irma updates.



Florida Governor Rick Scott has declared a State of Emergency for all counties in the state of Florida in order to prepare for Hurricane Irma, now a Category 4 hurricane.
I have declared a state of emergency for every FL county to help state, federal and local governments work together as we prepare for #Irma.
— Rick Scott (@FLGovScott) September 4, 2017

The University of Central Florida Emergency Management Center will be monitoring the storm around the clock and assist administrators on whether to cancel classes. The decision to cancel classes will be up to UCF administrators based on the information received from the EMC as well as national weather monitoring services.
Current computer models have the storm moving towards Miami then making a sharp, straight turn North through Florida.
We’ll be keeping an eye on Irma for UCF and it’s potential impact on classes and next Saturday’s #UCF football game pic.twitter.com/iYxUF8Va0G
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 3, 2017

The Saturday 8 p.m. football game may be moved to Friday, postponed, or canceled overall. UCF Football has a bye week on Saturday, October 28, although Memphis Football has a conference game at home in Tennessee on Friday, October 27.
Family weekend was planned for the Memphis game – should the university remain open through the week, UCF Football will make their own determination.
UCF closed classes for Hurricane Matthew in October of 2016, the first Hurricane in over a decade anticipated to make landfall at the time in the Sunshine State.
Students were widely concerned with how long the decision took from UCF to cancel classes and close the university as other institutions closed earlier before the storm. Students were faced with leaving campus early on their own time or sticking with an official decision seemingly last-minute, two days before expected landfall. On Wednesday, October 5, although, UCF announced classes to close on all campuses from Wednesday, October 5, at 3 p.m. through Saturday, October 8.
UCF students board windows, prepare for Hurricane Matthew

Last year, Orange County and Seminole County both enacted mandatory 33-hour and 26-hour curfews, respectively, for all residents. The Central Florida Expressway closed toll roads in anticipation for the Hurricane.
Hurricane Matthew brushed the East coast of Florida at a Category 3 and fortunately did not cause much damage to Central Florida. Meteorologists expect Irma to make landfall but do not have a pinpoint location just yet; Irma may move along the East coast as Matthew did, move up through Florida according to weather models, or move into the Gulf of Mexico.
After Governor Scott’s announcement, water and bread began to run on low supplies at the Walmart on Alafaya and Target in Waterford Lakes Town Center.
As Rick Scott declares a state of emergency, the local Neighborhood Walmart on Alafaya is out of water and running low on bread. pic.twitter.com/lLBybdHh1S
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 4, 2017

Target at Waterford Lakes is just about out of water. All that is left is a few packs of Fiji and Voss bottles pic.twitter.com/3bZczFbzoF
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 4, 2017

Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF hurricane related information and updates. We will be posting on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.



ORLANDO, Fla. – McKenzie Milton has been named American Athletic Conference Offensive Player of the Week after completing 16-of-21 passes for 360 yards and four touchdowns on the way to a 61-17 victory over FIU on Thursday.
The 360 yards and four touchdowns were both career highs for Milton.
“What you saw on the field today is what we have been seeing at practice for almost two years, and it carried over on to the field tonight,” said Head Coach Scott Frost in the game’s aftermath.
McKenzie and company draw the Memphis defense in week two, a defense that surrendered 279 yards and two touchdowns in their opening game against Louisiana-Monroe.
