ORLANDO, Fla. – The rise stalls for Orlando’s Hometown Team as UCF stayed put at No. 18 in the College Football Playoff Rankings.
UCF struggled to put away a tough SMU team in Dallas – a team not seen as overly threatening in the committee’s eyes. Five teams ranked ahead of UCF in last week’s poll lost – No. 6 Ohio State. No. 7 Penn State, No. 11 Oklahoma State, No. 13 Virginia Tech and No. 15 Iowa State.
Sunday morning’s season-long polls posted UCF at No. 14 in the Coaches’ Poll and No. 15 in the AP Poll.
American Rising:
Memphis stuck around as well, coming in at No. 22 in the CFB Playoff rankings and No. 19/20 in the other two major polls.
USF snuck back into the polls this week as well following Quinton Flowers’ 516 yards in the Bulls’ victory over UConn. They enter this week ranked No. 21 in the Coaches and No. 22 in the AP.



ORLANDO, Fla. — The national spotlight just keeps growing for Scott Frost and UCF Football. Rumors of widespread demand for the hottest name in college football have fallen for weeks upon the Knights’ faithful – to Nebraska, to Florida, the storyline just keeps growing.
Comedy Central’s Daniel Tosh has added his name to the list of alumni fighting to keep the coach around, reaching out to Frost Tuesday night via Twitter.
 
dear @coach_frost, we need to talk. i’ll convince you staying at ucf is better than being haunted by the ol’ ball ghost.
— daniel tosh (@danieltosh) November 7, 2017

 
Tosh’s tweet read as follows:
“dear @coach_frost, we need to talk. i’ll convince you staying at ucf is better than being haunted by the ol’ ball ghost.”
UCF Athletics seemed open to the idea of putting the two together for a segment, as the Knights’ Associate AD of Communications and Senior Information Director Andy Seeley responded quickly to the tweet.

Let’s set up this meeting … Coach Frost/Tosh in a room together = hilarity! https://t.co/FFSs4Glicz
— Andy Seeley (@agseeley) November 7, 2017

The mania around Frost has officially transcended football.



Florida State University has suspended all Greek Life after a pledge died at a Pi Kappa Phi off campus house party, according to reports.
FSU president John Thrasher announced the suspension via a posted statement on the school’s website earlier this afternoon.
“I want to send a serious message, I really do,” said Thrasher. “We’ve got a serious problem.”
Thrasher goes on to explain what kinds of changes need to happen in order for Greek Life to be allowed back on campus.
“For this suspension to end, there will need to be a new normal for Greek life at the university,” Thrasher said in his statement. “There must be a new culture, and our students must be full participants in creating it.”
Along with suspending all Greek Life, Thrasher also banned alcohol at all student organization functions.
 “All of our student organizations Greek organizations and the other recognized student organizations on campus must step up. They will have to participate in the solution,” Thrasher said.
There is no word on how long the suspension will last or when Greek Life will be allowed on campus.



