In less then a week, the University of Central Florida Knights for Socialism has held two anti-Trump events on campus.
On Friday, students got their chance to take a “whack” at a piñata depicting the president at their “Whack-a-Trump-Piñata” event.
The Knights for Socialism Facebook page for the event states, “Angry? Afraid? Stressed? Come vent all that out with the Knights for Socialism this Friday on the Free Speech lawn in a celebration of the Mexican and Latino culture that makes America and Florida so great!”
The event attracted a big crowd of students and faculty who saw what was going on and stopped to take a look.
“You can tell on someone’s face that they’re republican and they’re taking a picture, or if someone is taking a picture and being like this is so funny,” Chairman of the Knights for Socialism Dylan Tyer said.
“There’s been no negativity by any means but definitely a lot of interest and a lot of good conversations with people. That’s all we are trying to do, build solidarity with the community and network with like-minded individuals,” Tyer continued.
For the event, the club brought out Minion piñatas and taped pictures of Jeff Sessions, Steve Bannon, and Donald Trump to them. Each of the piñatas were filled with candy, scantrons and past quotes from the three men.
“I saw a really vengeful strike at Sessions,” said Tyer.
“That was interesting and you know it’s not hard to imagine why. This is a guy who liked the KKK until he found out they smoked marijuana so that tells you all you need to know about Jeff Sessions and what the student body might think of him,” Tyer explained.
The UCF conservatives were not amused by the event, and felt that events like these lead to more problems on campus.
“These types of events are certainly violent,” College Republican Jarrett Cathcart said.
“Bashing a piñata of our president adds negatively to the already tense political climate, which exists even on campus. It’s something that is meant to provoke people and spark conflict,” Cathcart continued.
The Knights for Socialism have a very different opinion regarding whether the event was violent or not.
“If you think hitting a piñata is inciting violence, then you need to open your eyes, because there is actual violence being committed against American citizens, being slaughtered by their own government in mass. So if you think this is violent, then I don’t honestly care about your opinion,” Tyer said.
Chairwoman of the College Republicans, Karis Lockhart said,“They have every right to express their opinions of disapproval of President Trump, however putting together an event to beat a piñata with the President’s face on it is out of line and totally disrespectful.”
During the event, the Knights for Socialism collected money for a local charity, red aid and knights pantry. Red aid is a store where the less fortunate can get free clothing, toiletries, and other essentials. Knights for Socialism Treasurer Reinaldo Rivera said, “we got a good amount of contributions, which is what this is for.” The Knights for Socialism raised around 5 dollars and received some non-perishable food donations as well.



Campus MovieFest (CMF) is the world’s largest student film festival and coming to UCF this month to provide aspiring filmmakers the chance to create their own movie for free.
Over the past 15 years, CMF has given more than 1 million students at colleges and universities the chance to compete in their movie-making contest. Students at over 30 participating colleges sign up to receive access to all the equipment a production would need, including laptops loaded with editing software, Panasonic HD cameras, and external hard drives. 
The gear is given to students for free, along with a week-long deadline to create a five minute film. The top films are showcased at a red-carpet finale event, then the winning movie is invited to a weekend dedicated to celebrating student filmmaking at the Campus MovieFest Grand Finale.
UCF has been hosting CMF since 2007, and previous contestants are urging aspiring directors and actors alike to participate. Bianca Ungerman, a senior and hospitality major, was a finalist in 2016 for her movie “SlashHER.” Ungerman was excited to share the message of women in filmmaking, and loved the challenge of making a movie within a strict timeframe that still told a meaningful story – with bloody props. 
When asked if she would recommend CMF to other students, Ungerman said, “It’s not for the faint-hearted or the easily stressed, but it is definitely an experience where you learn more about the craft and are able to let your competitive side show.”
Students participating in this year’s contest were equally as optimistic, and found CMF to be a generous outlet to highlight their cinematography. Megan Kaihlahen, a junior cinema studies major, was participating in CMF for the first time. “I thought it was a very generous thing to do because it is open to everyone and you can gain experience from it.”
CMF is not just for film majors, but open to students in all areas of study. One group of juniors entered in CMF is creating a horror-comedy and bullying video. Their production team consists of Chelsea St. Cyr, an animation major, Dominic Meocado, a game design major, and Jennifer Santana, a speech therapy major. Santana stated that she is just doing the festival for fun, while St. Cyr was grateful for the free opportunity to make a film.
While the contest has already started, the red-carpet premier will be hosted in the Pegasus Ballroom on Feb. 18.
 
By: Rachel Stamford



