The annual scream-inducing event, Halloween Horror Nights at Universal Orlando Resort, is offering a discounted rate for current UCF students, as it celebrates its 27th year.
Students can purchase a $60 ticket, valid only on November 3rd. A maximum of six tickets can be purchased by a student with a valid UCF ID.
Tickets are available for purchase at the SGA Ticket Center, located on the first floor of the UCF Student Union.
The promotion saves students $23, when compared to the equivalent FLEX ticket, available on HHN’s website, which costs $83 after tax.
Yianni Babiolakis, a sophomore studying electrical engineering, was encouraged to go after learning about the promotion.
“I probably wasn’t going to go to Halloween Horror Nights but now I will”, Babiolakis said
Guests can look forward to an eventful night. This year, HHN is featuring nine haunted houses, five of which are based on classic films and franchises, like The Shining and SAW, where guests can relive iconic scenes and come face-to-face with unforgettable characters.
The other four chilling houses are based on original concepts, like Scarecrow: The Reaping, in which guests creep through abandoned farmhouses and winding corn fields, all while evading scarecrows at every turn.
Earlier in October, reporters from Knightnews were given an in-depth look at the production of HHN by Charles Gray, an HHN Director, and had the opportunity to ask questions.
Halloween Horror Nights 27 will run through November 4th. This special offer will give students a more affordable opportunity to experience the “nation’s premier Halloween event”, as described by HHN.



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF Head Coach Scott Frost spoke to the media on Monday morning for the first time since the team’s narrow win over Navy, touching on the Governor’s motivation, the physical standing of his team and how Saturday’s playing time will play out.
Here are some of Frost’s Monday morning highlights:
Austin Peay is Highly Motivated and Extremely Multiple
“This is a good team, I think they’re really multiple, which makes them difficult. They run more formations personnel groups and plays than I think we have in our whole offense this year.”
“Defensively they get a lot of guys up close on the line of scrimmage, make it hard on you to run, give you a lot of different looks, bring pressure, really impressed with a couple of their edge rushers that are active players and very productive. They play hard.”
“This is going to be like the super bowl for them. They’re coming down here and treating this like a bowl game and I’ve been on a team like theirs when I was at Northern Iowa, and when you get to play an FBS team there’s nothing in the world you want more than to knock a team off and beat them.”
“I know that they’re going to come down here hungry and our guys have to be ready.”
Noah Vedral Will Get Significant Playing Time
“We feel great about Noah. On the sideline I’ve kind of marked all of the plays that I felt good about Noah running. There’s probably some things that we would run with McKenzie that we wouldn’t run with Noah, but there are probably some things that we’ll run with Noah that we might not with McKenzie.”
“He’s going to get a bunch of reps this week, like he does every week, but Noah and Darryl have both had unbelievable progression this year. they’re both head and shoulder better than they were in fall camp. If that maturation and improvement continue I know we’ll have a couple of really good quarterbacks on our roster.”
UCF Starters are Still Recovering From a Physical Battle with Navy
“It’s good that this game [against Austin Peay] fell when it did. The guys are a little bruised and battered. Every time you play a team like Navy, you’re going to come out a little bit sore. It was a bloodbath out there, especially for our defense. But this is the time of the year anyway, where we start rolling it back just a little bit as far as practice time goes. I feel like the guys know what they’re doing well enough where we can take a couple of reps off them and try and let them recover a little bit physically, while still getting ready and preparing for the next opponent. We’ll start that process of backing off just a little bit this week and the onus is going to be on the players to make sure that they’re just as prepared even if they get a few less reps than they usually do.”
 McKenzie Milton’s Hamstring is Fine
“I’m sure he’ll get a lot of massages and whatever else they use to take care of minor strains, but he was out running and looking fine today. I don’t see any problem going forward.”



UCF last played in the Bowl Championship Series in its flagship season featuring head coach George O’Leary, QB Blake Bortles, and their 2013 Fiesta Bowl victory against the Baylor Bears.
Now we have the College Football Playoff.
But what would those old BCS computers have No. 18 UCF (6-0, 4-0 AAC) at in the rankings?
Alabama is currently 8-0 and has been at No. 1 nearly every week since the start of the season. The Knights have been on their way up each week, running over each of their opponents. Not only would Alabama trail behind Georgia, at No. 1, but also – wait for it – UCF, who comes in at No. 2 in the Dr. Peter Wolfe ratings.
Old BCS computers would have UCF ranked #2, ahead of – wait for it – Alabama Crimson Tide #UCF pic.twitter.com/PNYkNms1JT
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) October 23, 2017

“Wolfe’s ratings were part of the formula for the computer rankings that factored into the BCS ratings, which, of course, determined the top two teams in the country that played for the national championship every year,” SB Nation reported.
Read more about UCF Football’s win over Navy in Annapolis, Maryland:
Anderson, Moore and Killins Steal the Wind from Navy’s Sails in 31-21 Win




