Orlando. Fla- The Lady Knights took a tough loss in their opening game of the season.  Losing to Mercer 64 to 73.
UCF had a tough time dealing with Kahlia Lawrence.  The Mercer guard lite up the Knights with 26 points.  Mercer shot the ball well from 3, shooting 47%.
The Knights guards had a tough time penetrating the Mercer zone defense.  They were not shooting outside shots in the first half, making it difficult to penetrate.  This made it very difficult to create space for their talented big, Fifi Ndour.
Fifi Ndour played an efficient game. Scoring 24, along with grabbing 12 rebounds.
Korneila Wright played well.  When she pushed the tempo the Knights offense was more successful.  It will be critical that the Knights get out and run as they continue into the season.
Zakiya Saunders started to shoot with confidence late into the second half.  Saunders and Kayla Thigpen both showed off pretty strokes.  They both will be key contributors to this offense.  If they can shoot the ball it will clear things up for Fifi Ndour down low.
These girls played a nice 4th quarter.  They put up an impressive 27 points, it was just a little too late. The Lady Knights play at Chattanooga on Monday.  Look for them to bounce back nicely.



Student government’s parking coordinator announced new rules for University of Central Florida on-campus residents which aim to “free up over 1000 parking spaces” next semester.
The changes, posted by coordinator Chandra Kethi-Reddy on Facebook, aim to “single handedly (sic) help pull hundreds of cars off the road and make sure we have available garage space in garages that experience the most use.”
Students who have parking decals for garages G and E – designated for Towers residents – will no longer be allowed to park in other garages around campus. Instead, Kethi-Reddy wrote, they will be able to use the Black and Gold shuttle routes to “get closer to their classes more efficiently.”
Residents living at UCF’s southern communities – Apollo, Libra, Hercules, Nike and Neptune – will have to move their cars from the Ferrell Commons parking lot, the lot shared by Libra and the Physical Sciences building and Garage B. They would only be allowed to park in the eastern and western lots of Academic Village and the Libra Garage.
“This means those spaces where cars would sit, sometimes for weeks, are now freed up,” Kethi-Reddy wrote. “The lots will also make monitoring those cars easier, to prevent break-ins.”
Shuttle route 15 will also be modified to pick up students living in Arden Villas near campus.
The new policies, paired with other proposed projects, would ensure that “most traffic and parking congestion will evaporate” by next fall, according to Kethi-Reddy. It is part of his broader promise to “permanently fix the parking problem” by 2020.
Commuters and residents alike regularly report problems finding parking on campus. The Orlando Sentinel reported in May that UCF sees 45,000 students, faculty and staff visiting the campus daily and compete for one of its approximately 18,000 parking spots.
While the changes intend to concentrate residents into other lots to allow more room for commuters, there is already some concern about the inconvenience students living in Academic Village, Libra and Apollo will experience, according to a source familiar with the plan’s logistical implementation who spoke on condition of anonymity.
“People in Libra and Apollo will have to cross Gemini to get to and from their cars with groceries or whatever else they may have,” he said.
The problem is compounded, the source said, by the fact that residents pay more for their parking permits than commuters – up to $50 more for annual hang tags, according to UCF Parking Services.
Nevertheless, the parking and transportation advisory committee voted unanimously to move ahead with the new policies.
It is unclear how much it will cost to implement them, but Kethi-Reddy said in the post that it is “near zero.”



ORLANDO, Fla. – No. 18 UCF fights to remain undefeated this weekend against the UConn Huskies in the battle-formerly-known as the Civil ConFLiCT, one of five perfect teams remaining under the scrutinizing gaze of the College Football Playoff Committee.
The Committee ignored UCF’s one-score win over the Mustangs in this week’s polls, cementing the Knights at the No. 18 spot for the second consecutive week. UConn doesn’t provide much more fuel to stoke the fires of progress but will present Orlando’s Hometown team the opportunity to put on a dazzling show in their first of two final regular season home games.
UConn Quarterback David Pindell
Huskies’ quarterback Bryant Shirreffs is out for this one, still navigating his way through the concussion protocol. He had been one of the few bright spots on this UConn team, second to only McKenzie Milton in the American’s leaders in pass efficiency. He has posted a 14-5 TD:INT ratio and has completed 65.8% of his passes – a significant loss for a team only rushing for 132.6 yards per game.
Junior quarterback David Pindell was 3-4 for 37 yards in relief of Shirreffs last weekend, not leaving much on the tape.
AAC-Worst Pass Defense
McKenzie Milton and company will be facing an FCS-level pass defense in the UConn secondary. Giving up a conference-worst 378.6 yards per game, and leading the highway to defeat with 28 surrendered passing touchdowns, the Huskies’ glaring weakness is in the second-level defense.
In their four conference losses, UConn has allowed opponents to score 37, 41, 49 and 70 points – 20 points per game more than they scored in the defeats.
UCF Defensive Back Competition 
Nevelle Clarke has all but stolen the starting gig from Brandon Moore, who has seen a drop in playing time to accommodate the returning talent. Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander said this week that even Hughes’ will be affected by Clarke’s return as the team rotates all three backs with the number one unit.
This means getting all three on the field in obvious passing downs as well. Moore has come on as of late, but no longer does UCF have to suffer if a team is able to take advantage of the redshirt freshman’s youth. UConn’s damaged passing attack serves up a feast of opportunity to separate from the pack.
Clear Mind, Total Focus
Coach Frost celebrated the birth of his first child this week to widespread attention across the fanbase. He had been a wreck in Dallas in anticipation of the pregnancy, saying that it affected his playcalling and that he was ready to hand the duty over to Coach Walters.
The anticipation and distance were the drivers of anxiety for the Head Coach, and he has said the anxiety has completely dissolved.



