The No. 17 UCF Knights survived a battle with Southern Methodist University Saturday night that lasted through the fourth quarter.
SMU led with a touchdown to break open the scoring game and the Knights kept pace until game’s end. UCF struggled to produce its explosive offense in Dallas yet still managed to win by a score.
As the fourth quarter drew on and the Mustangs saw victory, critical third and fourth down conversions hung over UCF’s head. Defensive coordinator Eric Chinander secured the playing field while Milton kneeled with a minute twenty seconds left to call the game.
Stay tuned with Knight News for a full recap and post game video.



Here are Knight News’ 2017 Kappa Delta Shakedown photos:
Check out the link at the bottom for all 23 video performances!
 
 
UCF Kappa Delta Shakedown 2017 Videos and recap




A University of Central Florida donor arranged for a plane to wait on standby during the UCF versus SMU game should Scott Frost’s wife go into labor in Orlando.
The head coach flew to Dallas to lead the eighth game of his second season while the team aims for to continue its undefeated record. Southern Methodist University looks for an upset during its Homecoming Game against the No. 17 Knights – even showing off 200 sidelined prospective recruits for today’s matchup.
The delivery window for Scott Frost’s firstborn child was this weekend. Earlier in the season, Frost joked to media that if he were to run off the field, the reason would be to attend the delivery.
A UCF donor has a private plane ready to go should Frost have to leave mid-game. Family over football (UCFamily included).#FrostBabyWatch
— Tyler Graddy (@TylerGraddyKN) November 4, 2017

Should UCF Football’s chief architect leave mid-game, defensive coordinator Eric Chinander will assume head coaching responsibilities and gameplay will continue. Frost would make the trip to the airport and fly two to three hours over to Orlando.
Stay tuned with Knight News in Dallas for all of your UCF vs SMU game needs.



