On Tuesday, April 11 at 3:30 p.m., students and members of the UCF community will gather for the Eternal Knights Memorial Service in the Student Union Pegasus Ballroom.
This year, we will remember 18 Knights who have passed away.
“This is an opportunity for families and friends to join the entire UCF community in a solemn tribute to their loved ones,” UCF said.
The following students will be honored and remembered:
Among those to be remembered are Juan Guerrero, a Knight who fell victim to the largest mass shooting to take place in the United States. On June 12, 2016, a gunman open fired inside Pulse nightclub, killing 49 and injuring 53. An outpouring of support for Orlando came from all over the globe, especially from the community itself.

Griffin Moody, a computer engineering freshman described as ‘the sweetest boy in the world,’ would finish a long day at the beach with friends on Sunday, September 11, 2016. Moody was joined by friends as a passenger in the car as another vehicle impacted Griffin and friends as they made a left-hand turn around 8 p.m. on their way home. The collision would leave five of the six involved injured. Moody, the sixth, would not make it.
Those who cannot attend the ceremony may join UCF by participating in a 36-second campus-wide moment of silence on Tuesday, April 11, at 3:30 p.m. – this marks two seconds for each Eternal Knight.
“Let’s come together, on every UCF campus, to show solidarity as a community and support for the families and friends attending the Eternal Knights Memorial Service,” said UCF.
For more information on the Eternal Knights program, visit www.eternal.sdes.ucf.edu or contact David Oglethorpe at 407-823-0548 or davido@ucf.edu.



These UCF students are reaching for the stars.
They are part of a group called SORCE at UCF, which consists of 15 active members working towards one common goal: to send a rocket into sub-orbit. SORCE is not a registered club at UCF, but instead an organized group formed by students passionate about their mission.
“We like to think of it as an undergraduate research group filled with people who believe in what we do, each supporting the project with regular contributions,” mentioned the project leader, Gligur Georgievski, who is a senior at UCF studying Aerospace Engineering.
The main mission is to make UCF the first university to send a rocket into sub-orbit. “I’ve noticed that other universities across the nation are actively working on becoming the first university to launch a student-built rocket into sub-orbit. Of course, after finding out I thought: why isn’t UCF embarking on this mission?” Georgievski added.
And UCF does have an edge over other universities. Georgievski shared that “UCF is the #1 supplier of engineers to the Aerospace and Defense Industries producing more graduates who get jobs in aerospace and defense companies than any other university in the nation.”
SORCE started their mission by competing in NASA-FSGC’s hybrid rocket competition over Spring Break, in which they placed 1st in the max altitude category with a rocket that launched 6,400ft, “a number the FSGC judges have never seen before,” Georgievski told us. The rocket took 6 months of designing, building, testing, and optimizing for it to reach this new height.
James Bell, a member of SORCE and senior at UCF studying Mechanical Engineering, interned with NASA last summer, bringing his adopted skills from the internship to the planning and executing of the rocket.
“When I worked at NASA last summer, I was interning under the Logistics department which was contracted out to Jacobs Technology. My main role was to help improve the efficiency of their warehouse on base and create databases so we could analyze areas of improvement. The main role of our contract was ground systems development, which was basically a large support system for not only NASA but other companies launching out of Kennedy Space Center as well,” he shared.
He mentioned how “Being exposed to these different operations on the ground helped me get a better understanding of the large amount of work required to prepare and launch a rocket into space. I used this knowledge as well as the curriculum I’ve learned in school to help create the Ground Support Equipment required for our hybrid rocket,” adding that, “We are just a group of young engineers with a passion for pushing the boundaries and testing the limits of our capabilities.”
With this successful launch, SORCE’s future is promising. At this pace, they may indeed be the first university students to launch a rocket into sub-orbit. Charge On!



The State University System’s Board of Governors in Tallahassee unanimously approved a hospital partnership between UCF Academic Health and the North Florida Division of Hospital Corporation of America.
Soon the University of Central Florida will provide health care services as well as education and research through its own hospital system named UCF Lake Nona Medical Center.
The hospital will help the UCF College of Medicine increase residencies and clinically-based research, ultimately building Medical City into a healthcare destination providing first-class health care.
Knight News obtained renderings of the 25.2-acre medical complex.


“The aspirations that we have worked on from day one are that we would have a first-rate, top-tier medical school. It is clear to me that we need a hospital if we are going to achieve our highest ambitions for the medical college,” UCF President John C. Hitt said.
Hospital Corporation of America (HCA) will spend $175 million in cash to build and begin operations of a 100-bed hospital, according to documents obtained by Knight News. Under the current lease, the number of beds will expand to 500 with the addition of other facilities.
Phase one includes the phase one hospital with parking and an emergency medical department. Phase two will include vertical growth to the phase one hospital and the phase two Outpatient Services & Physician Practice Building, according to current renderings.
Construction will begin within 18 months of the Final CON, with completion within 40 months, according to the Board of Governors.
 
No state money will be used and UCF will not incur any debt, according to university officials. UCF and HCA will share governance, each appointing four members to the hospital board, officials said.
“We are grateful to the Board of Governors for their approval and very excited to move forward in building a community-based teaching facility,” said Michael P. Joyce, FACHE, President of HCA’s North Florida Division.
“Today marks a milestone for all of us at HCA. This investment benefits the future physicians we’re privileged to train, as well as the entire Lake Nona community. It also allows us to expand our footprint in the Orlando area, making healthcare more accessible to Central Floridians.”
UCF purchased land in Medical City in 2012 and quickly began to seek partners. In Summer 2016, UCF formally invited hospitals nationwide to submit partnership proposals. HCA, Florida Hospital, and Orlando Health submitted proposals.
UCF trustees approved a partnership with HCA in September 2016 centered on the experience of the nationwide hospital’s operations in addition to its financial strength and extensive research programs.
Dr. Deborah German, vice president for medical affairs and founding dean of the College of Medicine ten years ago, spoke on the necessity of the hospital and economic promises UCF made when the college was approved.
“In the United States and around the world, the best health systems have an academic component at their heart and the best medical schools have hospitals,” German said.
Lake Nona is one of the Top 10 fastest-selling master-planned communities in the United States and the fastest-selling in Orlando, according to UCF.
  
–
Dr. Hitt’s message to students via Knightsmail:
At UCF, we’re proudly known for being big.
Being big is about more than the number of students we enroll. It’s about how we look at the world — UCF is a university that thinks big, acts big and, most important, dreams big.
I was delighted to be in Tallahassee today to see a big UCF dream come true.
The State University System’s Board of Governors unanimously approved a new UCF hospital. Our hospital will focus on building a healthier community, training more physicians, and powering economic growth through research.
We know that the best health systems have an academic component at their heart and that the best medical schools have hospitals.
The UCF Lake Nona Medical Center, which will be built adjacent to the UCF College of Medicine, is a public-private partnership with the North Florida Division of Hospital Corporation of America, the nation’s largest hospital company.
As with most ambitious projects, legions of people have contributed to its success. I appreciate the contributions of everyone, including our College of Medicine faculty and staff and our HCA partners, and want to note the special efforts made by:
Very few moments can truly alter the destiny of an institution. For UCF, today was one of them.
Today’s approval demonstrates the power of big ideas. This success encourages me to keep dreaming big about how we can improve the lives of our students and the quality of life in our community.
Go Knights!
Cordially yours,
John C. Hitt



