University of Central Florida students showed up in droves to camp out by Spectrum Stadium to secure a spot for just one of 500 discounted Peach Bowl student tickets available.
From 4:30 p.m. students lined up with blankets, pillows, chairs, food, and even studying materials for finals this week.

@UCFKnightNews donuts we're handed out by some of the coaching staff to those waiting pic.twitter.com/ocev40WEXA
— Jordan (@jordyshot) December 4, 2017

These Knights got here at 4 30 this afternoon to be first in line. #chargeon pic.twitter.com/c9kq2V56n6
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) December 4, 2017

It is 12:30 am at Spectrum Stadium where over 100 Knights have lined up to to get their bowl game tickets pic.twitter.com/6xcTGe4V8U
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) December 4, 2017

Check out the line for #UCF Bowl Game tickets pic.twitter.com/2DdxDuDbXM
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) December 4, 2017

“No but I’m not worried about finals right now, I’m worried about getting tickets to the Peach Bowl.” pic.twitter.com/61brpvlDnV
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) December 4, 2017

 pic.twitter.com/GjBTWcEF92
— Jenn (@jennclutts) December 4, 2017

The undefeated University of Central Florida earned a spot on New Year’s Day in the 50th Chick-Fil-A Peach Bowl after defeating Memphis in the American Athletic Conference Championship. Auburn fell out of the College Football Playoff projections after losing to Georgia 28-7 in the SEC Championship on Saturday; the Tigers rose through the ranks after battling Alabama, ending their perfect game streak.
UCF faced Memphis at Spectrum Stadium in the AAC Championship in a double-overtime shootout. The matchup became the highest-scoring conference championship game in NCAA FBC history and totaled over 1400 yards for the No. 1 and No. 2 highest scoring offenses in the country.
Ticket Information:
Student Knights Club Members ticket information
Student Knights Club members may purchase their tickets also starting Monday, December 4th at $50. Tickets at this price will be reserved for Monday, December 4th only. Starting Tuesday, December 5th, any tickets not purchased by Student Knights Club members will be released to the general student population. Buy your tickets on Monday! Tickets at $50 will be available anytime on Monday, from 9am-5pm.
Here is the full ticket price listing and directory:
Ticket Prices:
Ticket Options:

Benefits ordering through UCF: 
The number of tickets UCF sells for a bowl game can help the athletic department present the best possible bowl scenario for the Knights. It is critical that UCF fans purchase bowl game tickets from UCFKnights.com, as institutional ticket purchases can impact future bowl opportunities. Here are a few reasons to order through UCF:
How are bowl tickets assigned? 
Bowl game seating will be allocated by GKC priority points. Ticket orders from fans who are not members of the GKC will be allocated in the order that they are received after all pre-sale priority point orders have been assigned.
How many bowl tickets can I purchase?
We are placing no quantity ticket limits on Bowl tickets ordered. However, the first eight (8) tickets ordered will be based on your GKC priority point ranking. If demand for tickets exceeds the supply allotted to the University, we will make every effort to accommodate as many fans as possible.
Am I guaranteed the seat location I order? 
No. All ticket requests are subject to GKC priority and availability. UCF reserves the right to fill your order with a lower price ticket if supply at requested price point is sold out.How do my friends and I sit together? 
For season ticket holders who would like to reserve seats with other accounts, please indicate your personal preference at time of initial request (note: seat locations will be assigned at the priority point level of the lowest account holder).
When is my credit card charged? 
Customers that ordered by Dec. 6th will be charged Dec. 7. All others will be charged at the time of purchase.
Are there bowl ticket refunds or exchanges?
No. All ticket sales are final.
How will I get my bowl game tickets? 
Bowl game tickets are shipped via UPS the week of Dec. 11. Tickets ordered by 6 p.m. on Dec. 19 will be shipped via UPS. Tickets ordered on or after noon on Dec. 19 will be available for pick up at UCF’s Will Call on gameday. Please note that the account holder of record will be required to present a photo ID to claim will call tickets.
Where do I find information on UCF Alumni events and for the official tailgate?
Fans can visit the UCF Alumni Bowl site for information regarding Bowl Events at: ucfalumni.com/bowlbound
What if I cannot make it to the Bowl Game, but would like to support UCF?
Please consider donating tickets or providing a gift to the UCF Football Excellence Fund.
The UCF Football Excellence Fund was established to provide ongoing, recurring and comprehensive support for the Knights in order to build the financial foundation necessary to compete at the highest level. For more information or to invest in the UCF Football Excellence Fund, please Click Here or call the Golden Knights Club office at (407) 882-0411
MORE INFORMATION
Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



