The lawyer who represents Knight News has sent a letter to several high-ranking University of Central Florida officials regarding transparency concerns about the presidential search committee.
In the letter, Justin Hemlepp tells UCF that he wants to ensure transparency as the committee searches for a new university president and assigns a new role to President John Hitt.
Since UCF’s announcement that Hitt will step down next year, Knight News has faced several hurdles that have made it difficult to report on the latest developments.
On Oct. 24 and again on Nov. 2, Knight News requested public records from UCF, “pertaining to Hitt’s replacement including, but not limited to, records concerning work or payments Hitt would receive as a result of his retiring.”
Knight News did not receive any documents pertaining to this request until after Hitt and the board of Trustees had agreed to Hitt’s new $300,000 contract.
UCF released the first drafts of the contract, and other documents related to this agreement Wednesday after receiving Hemlepp’s letter.
Hemlepp argued that not only has Knight News faced several roadblocks regarding the search committee, but also the committee has made decisions “outside of the Sunshine.”
“Trustee [William] Self, for example, submitted to the chairman four names for consideration and pointed out he would be available at a forthcoming football game to discuss preferences,” Hemlepp wrote. “Two of Self’s four recommendations were selected the very next day. Trustee [Nick] Larkins, who is president of UCF’s Student Government Association, wrote to the Chairman [Marcos Marchena] expressing disappointment in not being selected for the search committee despite representations supposedly made in a previous out-of-the-Sunshine Discussion.”
In the letter, Hemlepp expressed his concern that the committee was selected without any public oversight raised questions regarding the members of committee.
“Why is the student boy’s elected representative not on the committee? Why are there so few UCF Alumni? Why are so few students on the committee? Should Eastern Florida State College be represented?” the letter said.
To conclude the letter, Hemlepp explained why Knight News has an issue with the Board of Trustees conducting meetings via teleconference.
“Conducting the meetings in that manner frustrates the public’s ability to comment on the search,” Hemlepp said. “In addition, Knight News requested information from UCF concerning how to attend or participate in these meetings, and to date it appears that request has been ignored.”
Read Hemlepp’s full letter, below:
20171106_Letter_to_UCF_re_presidential_search
Read the email Trustee Self sent to BOT Chair Marchena:
From: William Self [mailto:William.Self@ucf.edu]
Sent: Friday, October 27, 2017 7:06 PM
To: mmarchena@mgfirm.com
Cc: lcooper@mgfirm.com
Subject: names for presidential search
Hi Marcos,
Attached is a word document with four faculty names and a short description of the core reasons I am recommending them for the search committee.
I will be at the game tomorrow if you would like to discuss, or you can call me at 321-[redacted] (cell) as well. I have worked on this for a couple of days and have confidence these faculty would serve well and put the best interests of UCF first in all their work on the committee. I would also volunteer myself – but I understand the need to limit the committee to three trustees given the way the process works.
Best regards,
Bill
William T. Self
Associate Professor
Associate Director of Undergraduate Affairs
Burnett School of Biomedical Science
College of Medicine
Chair, Faculty Senate
Member, UCF Board of Trustees
University of Central Florida
William.self@ucf.edu



Student government’s Speaker of the Senate Josh Bolona will introduce a resolution that aims to encourage fiscal responsibility when allocating money to clubs and students this Thursday.
The resolution would divide the Activity and Service Fee budget into four fiscal quarters. Each of these quarters will have a set budget created by the Financial Allocations for Organizations Committee.
Clubs and students will be able to request funding from the quarter in which their event takes place, and the money to fund the event will be pulled from that quarter’s budget.
According to Bolona, this bill will work to ensure that the senate can fund clubs and students throughout the fiscal year.
“We, as Senate, allocate upward towards $1 million per year for individuals and organizations to travel to conferences and host events on campus,” Bolona said. “Year after year, we run out of funds towards the beginning of the Spring semester.”
Bolona believes that this resolution will make it possible for clubs and students to receive funding when they need it.
“They should expect to have the opportunity to receive funding in parts of the year that didn’t exist before,” Bolona said.
While this new bill will allow students and clubs to get funding year-round, one potential drawback to this bill would be that the senate will have to be stricter with funding.
“A point organizations should realize is the Senate will become a lot more stringent when allocating funds, as the budget they will be dipping in has been cut in fourths,” Bolona said.
While this budget could be a negative, Bolona believes that the pros of this resolution outweigh the cons.
“Overall, the resolution creates a year-round funding and fiscal responsibility balance that benefits the student body as a whole,” Bolona said.
If passed, this resolution could go into effect as early as January 2018.



ORLANDO, Fla. – Nevelle Clarke’s much-anticipated return to the Knights’ defensive backfield came against the unheralded Austin Peay Governors, a perfect time to reset from a half-season of Saturdays off.
Not to say that the stakes weren’t low, but UCF scored a program-record 73 points against the Governors. Clarke transitioned from scout-team to game speed with relative ease, setting the stage for a showdown in Dallas against an SMU duo that boasted NFL talent on either side.
“Nevelle had an unbelievable game,” said Coach Frost on Monday. “That was a big test for our defensive backs with the quality of wide receivers that they had.
“Those guys had a huge challenge and I thought they were up to the task. Nevelle, being only his second game back, I thought he played at a really high level on Saturday.”
It should be reinforced that Courtland Sutton is a first-round talent averaging 15.7 yards per catch, and Trey Quinn leads the NCAA in receptions.
“I was proud of him, stepping in there,” assured Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander. “It’s not like he was out there playing against me at receiver, he was out there playing some real legitimate NFL guys.”
Mike Hughes has been a pleasant surprise as the Knights’ most outstanding defender, but Nevelle was slotted to be UCF’s lockdown corner since his emergence last season. He has returned to full form, which would assume a ton of playing time in the season’s back end.
That doesn’t mean that Brandon Moore has lost his seat the table yet. Chinander said this week that they will do their best to get all three guys on the field at the same time and that all three are taking reps with the starters right now.
“Right now, we’re rotating Bam, him and Mike all in there at the ones and we’re trying to get all three of them on the field in a lot of situations,” explained Chinander. “I think you’re going to see a good rotation.”
“Mike and Bam have just had so many reps throughout the year that it’s going to be good to go Mike and Bam – have those two take a couple of series – then go Nevelle and Mike, Nevelle and Bam; I think it’s going to be really good for us as a team to get those guys some rest.”
Brandon Moore has been heavily targeted as the No. 2 corner and as a redshirt freshman just getting established. With Hughes shining so brightly on the opposite side, it has been heavy fire for Moore as the logical weak link.
His standout game against Navy yielded a forced fumble, fumble recovery, tackle for a loss and interception – making it tough to remove his name from the conversation.
Moore’s continued development does excellent things for the Knights’ number one unit, giving them flexibility with both coverage packages and in rotating fresh legs to the scene. He will continue to take significant reps and will still be in the mix, but expect UCF to go to Nevelle when the situation calls for just their best two corners on the field.



ORLANDO, Fla. – The second week of college football rankings are in, and UCF still lives among the lower echelon of the playoff committee’s rankings. UCF didn’t budge from No. 18 following a tight game against SMU, even though five programs ranked in front of them lost their games last week and only five unbeaten teams remain.
College Football Playoff’s Committee immediately made an enemy in UCF fans everywhere. Many felt that No. 18 was too low to begin with, considering much more positive rankings in the season-long polls, but to not move in the second week – it seemed personal.
It is no secret to anyone that the group of five faces an uphill battle, as no team outside of the Power Five conferences has ever made it to the playoff. Shoot, is it even possible?
“Yeah, I think it’s possible,” said Head Coach Scott Frost. “I don’t know if it will happen this year, next year, or the year after, but I think it’s possible. I look back to when Boise was playing really well, they threatened it a bunch of times.”
“Hopefully someday teams like ours get a chance to play in some of those games. We still have a long way to go before any of that talk matters. We’ve got to win this weekend and the rest will take care of itself, but I’m sure the debate will get started.”
Ignoring UCF made it clear: The Power Five rules. Even if the team finishes undefeated with an AAC Conference Championship under their belt, the playoff is beyond reach.
The Group of Five’s glass ceiling will require repetitive blows before it breaks, requiring a G5 school to continuously threaten the major contenders among the college football elite. To think that UCF is even relative in the conversation is mind blowing.
Most people would have flat out laughed at you had the suggestion of a top-fifteen ranking arisen in April, but this team has proven to be better than what anybody on the outside predicted.
“We take it as a challenge to step up and show them that we’re a lot better than they think we are,” said UCF offensive lineman Jordan Johnson. “We know that they lowballed us, but we try not to think about the rankings.”
“We just go out and play football against the team that they line us up against.”
It isn’t just Johnson who understands the predicament his team his in. Heisman-Fringe Hopeful McKenzie Milton said this week there just isn’t anything to be done about it. Nothing changes in the short run.
“Honestly, I have no idea (if it’s possible for a G5 school to make the playoff),” Milton said on Tuesday before the rankings dropped. “Like I said, that’s really out of our control. All we can focus on is winning games, and if we were to get that respect that would be awesome.”
“That’s definitely a goal for this program, I think. I think we could reach that goal, but you never know. You never know what’s going to happen.”
One thing is for certain. We know it won’t happen this year.



