The Senate candidates gathered at the Student Union atrium Wednesday evening for the announcement of the winners. For many, the results were unsurprising since they ran completely or virtually unopposed.
Seats belonging to the College of Undergraduate Studies, the College of Nursing, the Rosen College, the College of Education and the College of Graduate Studies all saw their declared candidates win their seats.
One school, like the College of Optics and Photonics, had only one candidate—a write-in called Sean Isenberg, who won after receiving three votes. For undeclared majors, there were no candidates on the ballot.
The election also saw a decrease in voter turnout, with only 3,477 people voting for Senate candidates—about 30 percent fewer than last year. Jamal Mays, the Student Government Association’s assistant supervisor of elections, said that the reason for this was the scramble to reschedule after Hurricane Irma.
“Originally, everything would have been closed down around mid-September, but due to a whole week being taken away from the elections we had to figure out rescheduling and after that, people who wanted to pursue Senate either disappeared or people didn’t get through the petition.”
Potential candidates would have needed to receive a certain number of signatures to get their name on the ballot. They could have still written themselves in, but that considerably decreases that student’s chances of winning.
In the College of Engineering, for instance, Joshua Bolona, who ran for SGA president last year, declared his candidacy and received 384 votes, the most of any other candidate. Jad Shalhoub, his former running mate, was a write-in candidate in the same college. He only received two votes.
In the College of Business, only three students—Jeremy Batista, Spencer Lasday and Corey Marcous—were considered declared candidates. Nine candidates were write-ins, five of whom—Joshua Paul, Alex Teblum, Samuel Cooper, Lauren Phillips and Daniel Morris—won seats.
The number of write-ins in the College of Business, Mays said, is unprecedented, with only one or two write-in candidates for that college in previous years.
Advertising and outreach was also a factor in the dip in turnout. Mays promoted the election on the UCF class pages on Facebook, but that did not stop the turnout from being as low as it was. And due to Hurricane Irma, which forced UCF to close for 10 days, much of the news coverage was dedicated to the storm.
“It was kind of a mess, but we tried to mitigate that by updating our Facebook as much as possible,” Mays said. “We definitely are going to learn from this election and we have a lot of things that we’re going to push for in Senate, so we highly encourage news organizations to follow up with us.”
One of those things is social media. This semester saw the election commission create a Facebook page to provide news and updates to “make sure everyone knows they can vote and run for their college seat.”
Despite its problems, the election did see new faces come into Senate. Robert Sells, who served as the transportation coordinator last year under former SGA President Chris Clemente, won a seat along with Theressa Tong in the College of Undergraduate Studies.
His platform, in part, focuses on tackling what he calls “incumbent advantages,” namely banning campaign tickets during SGA elections. He also promised to “introduce policies to fight against nepotism in SGA.”
“One of the first things I’m going to push for is campaign finance regulations because it’s absurd how much money any individual wanting to run for SGA president has to spend,” Sells said.
Karen Caudillo, a DACA student who became nationally-known for her progressive activism, won a seat in the College of Sciences.
“I’m not sure what committees I’m going to join, but I just want to make sure that organizations receive adequate funding and that everything is done ethically and responsibly,” Caudillo said. Another part of her platform is to push for greater sustainability on campus, beginning with having on-campus restaurants switch over to “compostable silverware, plates and cups.”



ORLANDO, Fla. – Just a few days after ascending to the main stage of college football with a No. 25 ranking, Head Coach Scott Frost isn’t letting his players buy into the hype. He has continuing to beat the same drum, impressing on his players that three wins over three games haven’t earned anything permanent.
“We’re not going to talk about any of that stuff. In fact, I asked the players what their record was this morning and they knew the answer. It’s zero-zero. I asked them where we were ranked and they said we’re not,” said Coach Frost.
The old company line may sound cliché or hollow, but it might be the only course of action to keep his players rolling without letting off the gas.

“It sounds corny, but they’re buying into that, and that’s what our mindset needs to be. Three wins doesn’t get you anywhere, its what we do from here, so we’re going to hit the reset button.”
You see, last year Scott Frost’s Knights were still learning how to win ballgames. They still hadn’t quite mastered the mathematical function that pushed teams into the land-of-no-return, losing four second-half battles – often in heartbreaking fashion.
A closer look:
30-24 L Maryland: UCF went wire-to-wire with the Terps in McKenzie Milton’s first career start, staying in the game with impact defense to overcome a freshman quarterback who struggled mightily with protecting the football. Milton’s late-game fumble in overtime sealed the deal for Maryland.
26-25 L Temple: Coach Frost came into the post-game press conference absolutely heartbroken after Temple handed UCF a last-second win on their home turf. The Knights had the game in hand, leading 21-3 at halftime.
31-24 L Houston: Greg Ward Jr. and soon-to-be-former-head-coach Tom Herman had Houston football positioned as the American Athletic Conference’s superteam when UCF came into town, but the Knights would prove to be first-half kryptonite – running up a 21-3 lead before surrendering four touchdowns in the second half.
35-20 L Tulsa: Tulsa did not incite the same emotional meltdown that other late-game collapses did, but the Knights did hold the game even at halftime at fourteen apiece. UCF’s offense sputtered out in the third and fourth quarter, only managing to score six points in the game’s final frame.
Things are different in year two of the Frost Era. UCF is smashing opponents in the second half, letting just three touchdowns slip by them after the intermission; they have outscored those three foes 62-20 as time wound down.
“I think our play in the second half is due to confidence,” said Frost. “It’s due to our depth, we have better depth this year and I think we’re playing deeper into games. I also think it has to do with our focus. Last year we’d lose our focus, we’d get up on people and we didn’t play the same in the second half. Whether it’s depth, confidence or just commitment to what we’re doing, I’ve been really impressed with the third quarters we have put together.”
UCF opponents are 9-0 in every other game they have played in 2017, and that includes wins over Texas and a shootout with Josh Rosen and the then-ranked No. 25 UCLA Bruins. Maryland looked every part of a power five program immediately after their shellacking at home, and Memphis was considered to be an American Athletic Conference favorite until their demise at the hands of Adrian Killins and company.
These are not pushover wins that UCF has accrued. As much as Frost may emphasize that the team isn’t getting too large of an ego boost from the early success, Orlando’s Hometown Team is expecting to win every time they take the field.
“Everyone is hungry, so every practice is full of energy,” said running back Adrian Killins. “Guys are competing at every position so I feel sorry for the next opponent, because this team is out for revenge.”
Small improvements in the details have led to significant big picture growth. Simple things – a second year in the same system, a full off-season of strength training under visionary coach Zach Duval, a quarterback who has learned how to compete amongst the titans of the NCAA – have all paid enormous dividends.
“To be honest with you, I think last year on defense – I don’t know about the offense so much – but on defense, we had the system in and it was the base system,” broke down UCF Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander. “We were out there calling calls that we thought would put them in the best position. Now we can install some systems within the system, so that the kids can get themselves in the best call. The second year in the system, with second-year linebackers and safeties that really understand, [the system] they can roll the coverage, they can adjust the front to the best situation in that certain formation or that certain play.”
“That’s the biggest buy-in right there, just letting the system work for the kids, and they understand now that if we let the system work for us, we’re going to know how to play certain plays and certain formations, so I think that’s helped them a ton.”
McKenzie Milton was tossed into the fires before he was even close to prepared. He took a beating that can be attributed to both his heart-stopping, athletic brand of football and an offensive line that was, at times, suspect at best.
His 1:1 touchdown-to-turnover ratio as a freshman struck a deep, dark chord of worry for many fans watching his development seemingly stall midseason. Milton notched ten passing touchdowns, two rushing touchdowns, threw seven interceptions and lost six fumbles.
Nothing makes a young quarterback look like a golden god more than a chest-thumping, cleat-clearing bunch of big men along the offensive line that can erect a wall that the Knights’ Watch (see what I did there?) would be proud to stand behind.
UCF’s line hasn’t allowed a single sack through three games. One more time: UCF has not allowed their scrambling, pants-on-fire, improvisational jazz artist of a quarterback to eat dirt in 2017. Not even once.
“Some of the things that I think were weaknesses on this team last year are turning into strengths and they’re turning into strengths pretty fast. I’m really proud of that O-Line for how far they’ve come,” said Frost about the unit.
Black magic has taken the question marks of summer and fortified them into staunch pillars of strength for the undefeated Knights. The offensive line is hanging numbers that rival any in collegiate football.
The defense, heavy with inexperience brought on by seven new starters, ranks as a top ten unit and has forced the nation’s highest turnover margin.
UCF’s secondary lost every single starter and has recorded a touchdown, notched five interceptions from three of their new starters alone, and is locking down the opposition to 225.7 yards per game with a total of three touchdowns across the season.  Three.
It is not only that UCF has blown their opponents out of the water by scores of 61-17, 38-10 and 40-13. It isn’t just the +2.33 turnover margin, a hot streak from the offense, a show put on by the defense or extenuating circumstances brought on to their opponents via injury. There isn’t one clear element that anyone can point to that explains the rise of UCFast Football.
The single, undeniable fact about football in Orlando this season? You can bet with confidence on the UCF Knights.



