The University of Central Florida Police Department received a call for a suspicious incident that took place Monday night around 10:30 p.m.
Two residents of Towers 3 on the North side of campus reported an altercation and looked out the window to see a female screaming for help by the loading dock.
According to a police report obtained by Knight News, the caller and her roommates heard a woman call for help twice. The woman ran away from a silver four-door vehicle while a male in a dark hoodie chased after her. One of the witnesses stated that it looked as if the female was attempting to run to a blue light emergency phone.
The witness ran to her roommate’s room where they saw the male force the female down and then into the vehicle through the rear passenger door, where the male also entered before the vehicle took off, police say.
The car is described as a newer-model four-door silver sedan. The driver is unknown.
Update to the UCF Alert earlier today: We’ve identified a vehicle that matches witnesses’ descriptions and was in the area at the time of this incident. 
We are looking for a newer model silver Ford Fusion. If you have information, please contact UCFPD at 407-823-5555. pic.twitter.com/Z52OOAhJfT
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) December 5, 2017

Police attempted to make contact with other Towers residents, checked security footage at nearby gas stations, and conducted a search of the area. Eyeglasses, a cleaning cloth, and a soft case were found near a dumpster where the suspect’s vehicle was seen, the report stated.
“We do not know who the woman is. She was described being a thin, white female with long blonde hair, wearing a vibrant pink shirt and leggings,” said UCF Police after responding to the incident.
“Immediately, UCF Police officers canvased the area, knocked on doors in Tower 3, reviewed surveillance footage, and put out an alert to local law enforcement. No additional information has been gathered at this time. We do not know whether a crime occurred, but the report is concerning, and we are taking it seriously.”
If you have any information, please contact UCFPD by calling 407-823-5555. 
You also can report information anonymously and be eligible for a reward by calling CRIMELINE at 1-800-423-TIPS.



ORLANDO, Fla. — Danny White has filled his coaching vacancy, naming Missouri’s Former Offensive Coordinator Josh Heupel as the eleventh head coach in program history – who then quickly knighted Randy Shannon as his Defensive Coordinator.
Heupel led the nation’s No. 7 most productive offense this season, averaging 511.5 yards and 39.3 points per game as a member of the SEC East.
He won a National Championship as a quarterback with Oklahoma, finishing second in the 2000 Heisman Award voting and still stands today as one of the top three quarterbacks in program history.
As a quarterbacks coach, Heupel took Tigers’ quarterback Drew Lock to the next level, shattering the SEC record with 43 touchdown passes this season.
Heupel brought in former University of Florida Defensive Coordinator Randy Shannon to lead his defense.
Shannon has won three national titles as a player and a coach, was the Head Coach at Miami from 2007-2010 and Defensive Coordinator for the Hurricanes from 2001-2016. He served most recently as the defensive coordinator and Interim Head Coach while at Florida.



The University of Central Florida has sold out its initial allotment of tickets for the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl in less than 24 hours.
Each program gets 12,500 to sell- no word on Auburn’s ticket allotment has been released yet. The game is expected to be a sellout for the $1.5 billion Mercedes-Benz stadium which has a capacity of 80,000+.
SOLD: UCF has sold out its initial allotment of tickets — each program gets 12,500 to sell — Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl in less than 24 hours🍑⚔️
Peach Bowl CEO & president Gary Stokan: “That’s got a record in the CFP era. I don’t know that anybody sold out in first day of sales.” pic.twitter.com/8KaQfbmQmM
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) December 5, 2017

“I just got a call last night, UCF sold out their total allotment of 12,500 in their first day of sales, so UCF is fired up,” Peach Bowl CEO and president Gary Stokan said.
“That’s got a record in the CFP era. I don’t know that anybody sold out in the first day of sales. I got to believe Auburn is blowing through theirs as well.”
UCF students camp overnight at Spectrum Stadium in line for Peach Bowl tickets




