ANNAPOLIS – UCF clawed, scratched and won a war of attrition in Maryland’s capital on Saturday, beating the Navy Midshipmen 31-21 in an uncharacteristically tough game for the Knights.
“It was just a lot of fun,” said quarterback McKenzie Milton about the life-shortening stress. “It was a lot of fun coming into a hostile environment and getting a big win. Navy is always going to keep battling, so we knew we probably would have to fight until the end and it was a big win.”
In a game where Navy’s offensive clock control weighed heavy on UCF’s chances to score, Adrian Killins, Otis Anderson and Brandon Moore stepped in to save the day.
Killins responded to Navy’s explosive 75 yard touchdown pass to tie the game at the start of the third quarter with a 79-yard jaunt down the sideline, collapsing the lungs of the Midshipman faithful. He finished the day with 122 yards and two scores on the ground.
“He’s an eraser. He erased a tie game and made it a seven-point lead,” said Head Coach Scott Frost.
“You know, you get into a close game and you really need some heart. You need to play together you need to have guys that are going to make plays when the game is on the line.”
Adrian briefly left the game in one of the strangest football maladies of all time after the score; he collided with the Navy goat that stands ever vigilant on the sideline.
One more time: He was hit going out of bounds, and had to leave the game after a goat-on-athlete collision.
Brandon Moore, who is facing the real possibility of significantly reduced playing time as Nevelle Clarke returns to the team next week, put on a show in Annapolis. Moore notched two tackles, a forced fumble, a fumble recovery, two pass breakups and an interception to effectively end the game.
“Bam just wrecked the kid,” said linebacker Pat Jasinski about the forced fumble.
A shot heard ‘round the world, Moore’s fumble recovery came on the heels of McKenzie Milton’s biggest mistake of the game, an interception across the middle with plenty of time for Navy to seize control of the game.
Otis Anderson laid the hammer down on Navy’s coffin. He had an incredible all-around day, totaling a score and 103 all-purpose yards, but it was the timing of his first career touchdown that made the difference. Anderson scored UCF’s only fourth quarter touchdown on a ten-yard run with just 3:30 left on the clock to set the final score at 31-21.
This was the first time that UCF has truly been tested. McKenzie Milton said that there was no panic and that the team was confident throughout, but Coach Frost admitted after the game that he felt like he had some time taken off his life after the win.
UCF came, saw, and certainly didn’t conquer. They did come away with their sixth win, they did keep the magic alive, and they did remove themselves from the most unique offensive system they will face this season.
“Sometimes you win and it’s easy, sometimes you have to battle,” said Frost. “Sometimes it’s not as pretty, but a win is a win. I love how this team kept fighting, I love how they’re playing together right now.”
It just didn’t come easy this time.



ANNAPOLIS – UCF clawed, scratched and won a war of attrition in Maryland’s capital on Saturday, beating the Navy Midshipmen 31-21 in an uncharacteristically tough game for the Knights.
UCF has gone 6-0 for the first time in university history.
The Knights rushed for 247 yards as the Midshipmen led with 248 yards by game’s end. UCF led with 236 passing to Navy’s 171, but struggled with offensive snaps and missed conversions, allowing the score to remain tight through the fourth quarter.
Stay tuned for a full game recap and a post-game video.



The Line: -7.5 Knights.
Kickoff: Saturday 3:30 P.M, Marine Corps Memorial Stadium.
TV: CBS Sports Network
Radio: AM 740
ORLANDO, Fla. –  UCF (5-0) takes on Navy (5-1) this week after taking care of business against ECU in their own homecoming.  Navy lost a tightly contested matchup with Memphis last week and should be itching to get back out there on Saturday.
“I bet they’re hungry. Nobody wants to take two L’s back-to-back, especially not the first L. That’s just the game we play in,” said UCF Defensive Lineman Jamiyus Pittman.
This is the first contest between UCF and Navy, ever.  Playing at Navy is never easy.  Naturally, the environment is much different from your average college campus.
“It’s going to be a different atmosphere, there is going to be 4,000 Midshipmen in uniform, there is possibly going to be some cannon fire,” Javon Dewitt UCF’s linebacker coach said on playing at Navy.  Dewitt formally served as special teams and outside linebacker coach at Army West Point. “There is going to be guys carrying weapons around, not your normal security.”
UCF’s coaching staff has continuously spoken about the discipline that Navy brings to the football field.  These players are getting prepped for things that carry a little more weight than 3rd and 8.
“You don’t see a lot of missed assignments, and that’s a reflection of their academy. They are disciplined guys,” Coach Walters said on Tuesday morning.
As far as the optics on the field Saturday, you’ll see some Amish-style football. Navy runs the triple option, one of few programs left in the world that continue to perform at a high level in the run-first offense.  Sophomore quarterback Zach Abey has only thrown the ball 47 times through six games.  Quarterback Zach Abey has been excellent running this system.  Most of his damage has come on the ground.
Abey has rushed for 1016 yards and twelve touchdowns, all the while tossing five touchdowns and 491 passing yards.  Their routine pass plays can be explosive because the defense is never expecting it. Option teams routinely rank among the league’s best in yards per completion.
“Their quarterback has done a lot of the heavy lifting this year. He’s got a lot of those three and four-yard gains, he’s broken some big ones and I think he can throw the ball.,” Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander on preparing for Zach Abey. “Those 80-yard completions will kill us, so we have to do a good job of not letting things get behind us,”.
On the defensive side of the ball look out for junior Safety Sean Williams.  Sean Williams leads the team in tackles with 33, has forced and recovered a fumble and deflected four passes.
Navy is a tough team, and it is their homecoming game, expect a ruckus atmosphere.  They are going to slow the game down, and keep UCF’s electric offense off the field.  This could be one of UCF’s toughest opponents of the year.



