Thousands of women from different age groups,  political parties, races, religious backgrounds, and sexual orientations gathered at Lake Eola Park in Downtown Orlando for the Women’s March on January 21, 2017.
It’s not an unusual sight for Lake Eola Park to be packed with people on a beautiful Saturday afternoon, however, this weekend was different. 

Cities all around the country hosted Women’s Marches to protest the new White House administration, with the main march taking place in Washington, DC bringing in hundreds of thousands of participants. 
The demonstration was positive, promoting the notion of moving toward the future with an open mind for not only oneself but those around them.
Stewart Whitehurst, from Stuart, Fla., wished he could have attended the march in Washington, DC. 
Whitehurst said that he drove up from his hometown, a 2-hour drive, to stand up for women, the environment and everything that matters. “I was totally energized to be in the Orlando march,” said Whitehurst.
His friend, Sarah Wisharte, of Stuart, Fla., joined him at the march. Wisharte hopes “this march would build momentum, and raise awareness for what we have to lose.” Even though this wasn’t Wisharte’s first protest, she stated: “We shouldn’t be holding the same sign that we held a hundred years ago.”
David Jantz, of Mt. Dora, Fla., this was only one of many protests he’s attended. Jantz started attending protests during his twenties and is now seventy-one-years old. Jantz attended the march due to his opposition to the new Trump administration. He is worried that President Trump will repeal the Affordable Care Act, and is opposed to Trump’s cabinet choices. David also attended the march because he feels like it is important to stand up for equal rights.
Candice Carsillo, of Clermont, Fla., is worried about the environment, and a possible repeal of the Affordable Care Act.  Carsillo was hoping that this March would show that Florida feels passionate about progressive causes and that his cause would not be intimated.
President Trump won Florida during the election, and that was on the mind of Erin Carbelli of Oviedo, Fla.
“I come from a red area,” said Carbelli.  “I attended the march for the opportunity to get together with like-minded individuals.”
 There was a strong number of individuals crusading to abolish the electoral college after Trump’s win, securing nearly three million fewer votes in the popular vote than Clinton.
Photo credit: Samantha Ann Martin, Anna Rose Bobal, Kyle Nardine.



“Women’s rights are Human Rights” read one of the signs that floated above the sea of people marching through the streets.
 
On Saturday, the day after Donald J. Trump was sworn into office as the forty-fifth President of the United States, nearly one million people marched through the streets of Washington D.C. campaigning for women’s rights.
Starting in the early afternoon, the borage of pink knit hats cruised down the national mall chanting their views on issues of gender inequality, and their disapproval of the current Commander-in-Chief.
“We want a leader, not a creepy tweeter,” the crowd chanted as they made the trek down 14th street.
The march ended in Trump’s new back yard.
But despite the disapproval the crowd had for Trump, according to the woman, the march was not a protest of his election.
“The march, I think for many women, is the first step of networking or organizing”, said Deanna, a teacher from New England. “Political engagement is what needs to happen, community engagement is what needs to happen,” she said, “the first you do is you show up.”
And show up they did, women from all around the country made the trip to the nation’s capital city to peacefully assemble.
The march at first was only expected to gather about 98,000 people, according to a captain of the march, but instead, approximately one million gathered in the city.
One woman who attended similar rallies in the 1970’s and 80’s stated that she made the trip to fight for future generations.
Protesters gathered at the south end of the White House at the end of the march and occupied much of the city until leaving at around 6 p.m.
Stay Tuned to Knight News for continued political coverage.



