Co-written by:Brett Bissell
On Thursday, students gathered at the Student Open Forum, in the Key West ballroom, to express their ideas, concerns and experiences to several members of the University of Central Florida Administration.
President Hitt as well as Vice Presidents Ehasz, Heston, Holsenbeck and Merck were in attendance to address and offer possible solutions to these students’ inquiries.
Students brought up various topics ranging from racial concerns to the idea of an online student union.
Angelo Baldado, a Filipino-American, who is also the Student Director of Volunteer UCF, came to the Forum to express his concern regarding the lack of Asian-American role models on campus.
“I am a Filipino-American and I have heard the numbers or I’ve heard the number that we have four percent of Asian Americans here on this university. Before I say anything else, it is more than a number we are a people,” Baldado said. “Going through all my leadership opportunities I have noticed that I haven’t had any Asian-American role models.”
“Is it possible for us to create an Asian faculty and staff association?,” Baldado asked. “Something so that our Asian-Americans can get together and have role models and faculty and possibly staff as well.”
Vice President Merck, V.P. for Administration and Finance and Chief Financial Officer, responded to Baldado:”But the organizations you talked about, a lot of those kind of organizations really form organically, they’re not really directed from the top coming down,” Merck said. “So if you and your colleagues want to just start a grassroots movement to get something like that started, that’s solid ground.”
According to a spring 2016 Gender and Race Demographics report, “there are more than five times as many white employees than Asian employees, the third largest group.” In fact, UCF employs “more white employees than the combination of all other ethnicities.”
After the forum, Baldado said he was satisfied with the Administrators’ response to his concerns.
“The point is here is not to get an answer, the point here is to honestly put it out there,” he explained. “The fact that it is now being delegated and its been pinpointed and the administrators really nod and understand that, I’m happy with the outcome to be honest.”
Baldado, told Knight News that he feels that this forum was beneficial in giving students an opportunity to share their thoughts and communicate with the administration.
“With an open forum, it allows students to be able to engage with administration which sometimes there can feel like a gap you know with administrators and students,” Baldado said. “It may be nerve-wracking to do that but at the end of the day what makes the university is the students so its great to see that they listened in the end.”
The Student Open Forum at UCF has been an annual event and will likely continue in the future, allowing students, like Baldado, to express their concerns and advocate for change on issues affecting themselves and other students.



ORLANDO, Fla. – Another landslide victory for UCF has furthered the Knights’ ascent into the forefront of college football. UCF is now ranked No. 20 by both the AP Poll and the USA Today Coaches’ Poll, jumping two spots in the AP and one in the USA Today.
The Knights are rolling opponents as of late, outscoring their adversaries by a margin of 253- 84 through five weeks. Previously ranked American Athletic Conference teams Navy and USF made moves in the rankings as well, as Navy fell and USF climbed to 16 in the AP Poll.
Memphis, who UCF defeated 40-13, has been on a tear since the loss, beating UCONN 70-31 and the No. 25 ranked Navy 30-27.
UCF will travel to the previously-ranked Navy Midshipmen this week.



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF’s offensive line continues to dominate. The Knights racked up 600 yards of total offense against the East Carolina Pirates behind their dominant big uglies.
“Our offensive line gets better every week,” said Head Coach Scott Frost. “The O-line has gotten so much better from last year I can’t even describe it.”
Going into tonight’s contest against the Pirates, the Knights were ranked No. 4 in fewest sacks allowed in the NCAA after having only allowed one sack this season.
“That’s hard,” Frost said. “People are coming after the passer all the time. McKenzie [Milton] is a little escape artist and he can get away from people. But a lot of credit has to go to coach [Greg] Austin and those offensive lineman for the rushing yards we’re putting up and also the protection we’re giving McKenzie.”
Milton has looked like a Heisman winning quarterback this season when given the time to operate. He’s thrown 15 touchdowns and passed for 1,489 yards this season after going 21-of-27 for 324 yards and two passing touchdowns against ECU.
UCF’s running also continued to impress against the Pirates. The Knights finished with 238 yards rushing yards and four different players scored rushing touchdowns.
“The o-line is doing a great job in protection in the run and pass game,” Milton said. “We’re playing some good ball right now.”
Red-shirt junior right tackle Wyatt Miller said the offensive line started to gel and come together during offseason workouts.
“I could kind of sense it during the offseason,” Miller said. We come in, we have those voluntary workouts and what not and we’re getting it in. You could tell guys we’re kind of brought in and like they want to work. Last year, it was there a little bit, but it’s not what it was this year.”
UCF’s offensive line have made a 180-turn this season. McKenzie Milton has looked poised, and the running game is rolling and it’s all because of the offensive lineman’s play in the trenches.



ORLANDO, Fla. – McKenzie Milton added three more touchdowns to the collection, the offense dropped over six hundred yards and the UCF defense bellowed an earth-rumbling challenge to the American Athletic Conference Saturday night as the Knights rolled to a 42-point win over East Carolina.
For the second consecutive week Scott Frost’s offense performed up to their own astronomical standards, taking what they wanted when they wanted from the Pirates. Milton has mastered his offense.

“I can’t find many flaws in what he’s doing, at least from the sideline,” Frost said on the hot hand of his quarterback. “We’ll watch the tape, but he’s making great decisions, putting the ball on the money when we need him too. He’s operating the offense pretty well.”
“I can’t imagine too many people would be able to do what he does in our offense.”
Though the rocket arm of Milton and Mach-five speed of the weapons around him remain constant threats for the Knights’ scoring unit, the recipe for a blowout continues to evolve for the Knights. No one player other than the signal caller has strung together back-to-back weeks of domination.
“We’re not going to score this many points every week, but it’s fun when we do,” said Coach Frost. “In games like this you’re hoping you can get the ball to the right guys enough times, but if you don’t, shoot, somebody else might score. That’s a good problem to have. It was Tre Quan’s week last week, getting into the end zone a bunch, and a bunch of other guys found their way in tonight.”
This week it was two of the unit’s slower threats that sparked the tinderbox. Tight End Jordan Akins stumbled 41 yards into the end zone in the first quarter and Defensive End Jamiyus Pittman hauled in a five-yard score to notch UCF’s first two touchdowns.
Pittman’s debut as a graceful receiver had been building up for quite a while now as the senior continues his farewell campaign.
“We’ve practiced that play the last couple of weeks, and I think if I didn’t throw it to him he probably would have fought me,” said McKenzie Milton about the play call.
Eleven receivers and eight ball-carriers toted the rock on Saturday. The Knights scored on special teams, offense and defense for the first time since their last meeting with ECU. Three defensive players poked their way into the end zone – Mike Hughes on the 66-yard punt return, Tre Neal on the 50-yard interception and Jamiyus on the four-yard offensive cameo.
Nobody could have told you how, when, or how badly UCF was going to hurt you on any given possession, no matter who had possession. Nine different Knights found pay dirt against East Carolina: Milton, Akins, Pittman, McGowan, Killins, Neal, Hughes, Vedral and McCrae.
There was no dancing in the locker room according to Frost, and the raw emotion that permeated post-game victories against Maryland, Memphis and Cincinnati has faded quickly.
For the 2017 Knights, a 63-21 smackdown is just another day at work.



