The Venue at the University of Central Florida was packed tonight as Alpha Delta Pi hosted its annual Cheers for Charity philanthropy competition. 
The competition within Greek life raised over $30,000 for the Ronald McDonald House, according to Alpha Delta Pi.
For sorority dance, Pi Beta Phi took third place, Zeta Tau Alpha took second place and Kappa Delta took first.
For fraternity dance, Kappa Sigma took third place, Delta Sigma Phi took second place and Zeta Beta Tau took first.
Delta Zeta took home the fan favorite award. 
Knight News was there to capture videos of all the chants, cheers and stunts.
Alpha Delta Pi | Sigma Pi | Delta Zeta | Sigma Nu
Alpha Tau Omega | Pi Beta Phi | Delta Sigma Phi | Zeta Tau Alpha
Kappa Sigma | Sigma Chi | Zeta Beta Tau | Kappa Delta



Florida Highway Patrol released the Florida Traffic Crash Report for University of Central Florida student, Radley Gillis.
According to the report, the accident occurred on April 4 at 11:36 p.m. on State Road 408 heading east. The report says that Gillis was going the speed limit, wearing a helmet and is not believed to have been under the influence of any drugs or alcohol. The road was wet at the time; these wet conditions may have caused the accident.
According to the responding officers narrative, “ The driver of VO1 (Gillis) failed to negotiate the left curve in the roadway and VO1 traveled in a northeasterly direction onto the outside shoulder of the roadway where the front right and right side of VO1 struck a guardrail.”
After the crash, Gillis was incapacitated and was taken to Orlando Regional Medical Center by Orange County Fire Department/EMS, according to the report.
Since the accident, the UCF community has rallied around Gillis to help pay his medical bills. To date, Gillis’ Gofundme has raised, $93650.
This Friday, Gillis’ fraternity, Phi Delta Theta is hosting a 5k to raise money for Gillis. The race dubbed, “Run for Rad” will be from 7-9 p.m. on Memory Mall. Presale tickets are $10 and can be bought here or by emailing kbrjr4@gmail.com. Tickets will also be sold for $15 at the race. All proceeds will to directly to Gillis and his family.
Knight News reached out to Phi Delta Theta President Gary Burns, who recently visited Gillis in the hospital. Burns shared his experience seeing Gillis, and also encouraged the UCF community to keep supporting him.
“When I walked in the door, his face lit up when he saw me and it was then that i knew he is undoubtedly still the same Radley that we all know and have grown to love. He’s going to kick recovery’s ass because that’s just who he is, the man thrives off of conquering adversity, he lives on it,” Burns said.
“I can’t emphasize enough how imperative it is that we continue to show our undying support for this man; as it truly is the energy he needs when times are tough. Love you Brother, you’re an inspiration to us all, and I can’t wait to see you out of that damn hospital soon enough,” Burns continued.
 



The University of Central Florida Club Golf team has qualified for the Spring National Collegiate Club Golf Association National Championship in Hot Springs, Arkansas.
After a stellar performance in the 2017 season, both men’s and women’s golf has
“Qualifying is a huge honor, as only 31 teams out of over 400 qualify,” Travis Richardson, Director of the NCCGA said.
The NCCGA Championship will be held April 28 through 30 at Hot Springs Country Club in Arkansas. The tournament will feature the top 31 club golf teams and the top 8 individuals, for a total of 256 golfers.



