The University of Central Florida men’s basketball team has bet set by UCF Athletics, the university stated on Friday.
The Black and Gold will host Missouri, Cincinnati, UCONN, SMU, and Wichita State, highlight the home games at CFE Arena.
“We’re very excited for the season to be just around the corner and we’re looking forward to the challenges this schedule will present us this year,” UCF head coach Johnny Dawkins said.
“The non-conference games, with the likes of the Alabama and Missouri contests, and the AdvoCare Invitational, will be a great test for us early on. They will really help prepare us for a very challenging American Athletic Conference schedule.”
UCF will play in the Advocare Invitational Thanksgiving weekend at Disney’s ESPN Wide World of Sports.
“The American is a premier basketball conference and it will prove that once again this season,” Dawkins continued. “Adding Wichita State to what was already a formidable group of league opponents makes this year’s conference schedule that much more exciting as a competitor.”




The Orlando-Miami proposal to Elon Musk’s Hyperloop One project has become a winning finalist – among 10 out of 26,000 submissions internationally, Hyperloop One announced.
The 357-mile route will reduce travel time from about 4 hours to 25 minutes between Orlando International Airport and Miami International Airport. Passengers and freight will travel through a vacuum tube, via magnetic levitation, with speeds reaching 750 mph.
“A Hyperloop link between Miami and Orlando would unite the state’s tourism and economic centers, as well as ease the freight movement from the Port of Miami to the rest of the state,” Florida hyperloop stated.
“In addition, the corridor has the potential to extend further north into other states.”

“The Hyperloop One Global Challenge started as a call to action for innovators, engineers, trailblazers and dreamers around the world who shared our vision of creating a new mode of transportation,” Shervin Pishevar, co-founder and executive chairman Hyperloop One, said.

The ten finalists will receive resources to develop ridership forecasts, preliminary analysis, and other feasibility studies.



