Construction a 5th floor Quiet Study Zone and improvement of restroom accessibility, in addition to sprinkler systems, on the North Side of the John C. Hitt Library will temporarily begin floor closings and noise alerts over several floors.

The 21st-century library project starts with phase one (a) – the automated retrieval center. The new addition will allow for quick retrieval in part of the quarter-and-a-million print volumes over three stories, and a Phase 2 that will top the structure with a fourth story student workspace surrounded by glass windows.
“Construction of the ARC is part of Phase 1a, but it also includes the 5th Floor Quiet Zone, scheduled to be completed in Summer 2017.  It includes the renovation of restrooms in the “Student Union side” of the building: 4th floor back restrooms are complete and 3rd floor restrooms are currently under construction to make them accessible to all library users,” John C. Hitt Library Associate Director of Communications Meg Scharf said.
“It includes the renovation of the elevators, the renovation of stairwells. And sprinklering of the building.”
The John C. Hitt Library holds the distinction of UCF’s first building. Built in 1968, and approaching its 50th birthday, the library takes part in a nation-wide collegiate effort to improve campus beautification and amenities to current and prospective students as well as campus visitors.
The university’s first building doubled in size in 1984 to meet growing demands and will expand once more when construction meets completion in Fall 2017, according to Maria Teimouri, a facilities planning, and construction project manager.

As promised by UCF, according to current plans, additional seating, power outlets, 24-hour study rooms, research and collaboration space, and other renovations will be open to students beginning Fall 2017 with additional power outlets in the Phase 1 Quiet Zone.
The floor closings and noise alerts will continue through finals week this Spring 2017 as installations take place.
From the John C. Hitt Library:
Restrooms on the 3rd floor in the “back half” of the building will remain closed for renovation.
Starting Monday night, 3/20, the “Student Union side” of the 4th floor of the John C. Hitt Library will be closed for the installation of sprinklers. Materials in call numbers N through QP will be inaccessible but can be requested online, please see a staff member for assistance. Items will be retrieved several times daily and can be picked up at the Circulation Desk. It is estimated that this work will be completed around 5/1/17. Over the next months, the entire building will be fitted with fire sprinklers as part of the ongoing work on the 21st Century Library project.
Work continues on the study area of the 5th floor. When completed, the area will offer students a bright, new, space for silent, individual study, research, reflection, and coursework.
More information about the 21st Century Library project is at http://library.ucf.edu/21st/ You can check there for any work alerts. Earplugs remain available at the Circulation Desk.




Habitat for Humanity at UCF is having their second annual 5K to fight substandard housing in the local community and provide shelter to low-income Orlando families.
The campus chapter Habitat for Humanity is a subsidiary of Habitat for Humanity of Greater Orlando and is comprised of student volunteers that use donations to build safe, affordable housing for local families. After a successful event in 2016, the organization is planning their second annual 5K race as a fundraiser to construct more homes.
“The greater mission of Habitat for Humanity is to help provide families with affordable housing,” said volunteer coordinator Bobby Sells. “Through this event we hope to reach our goal with the support of our fellow UCF Knights.”
Home Run Fun Run is the organization’s largest fundraiser of the year with the goal of bringing the community together for a day of service and education about the need for affordable housing in the Orlando area.
According to Sells, after completing their second student-funded house, Habitat for Humanity at UCF wants to fundraise enough money to build one of their own for a third low-income family.
The 5K race is on April 1 from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. at Jay Blanchard Park. Tickets start at $25, and interested participants can register for Home Run Fun Run on their Eventbrite page.



