Do you want to finally have a taste of “that Mulan Nugget sauce?”
Nearly Twenty-years and a Rick and Morty reference later, McDonald’s is bringing back Szechuan Sauce for a day.
University of Central Florida “Rick and Morty” fans will be able to get their hands on the coveted sauce tomorrow, Saturday October 7, starting at 2 pm. At the local McDonald’s right across the street from campus, at the Plaza on University McDonald’s location, 4294 N Alafaya Trail, 32817.
Along with the coveted sauce, McDonald’s will also be giving away 1,000 limited-edition, hand numbered, screen printed posters for all ten of their sauces.
If you are not in UCF area but would still like to get your hands on some Szechuan Sauce, you can find all participating McDonald’s here.
 
 



The University of Central Florida’s Zeta Tau Alpha held their annual “Zeta Lip Sync” philanthropy Thursday night at the CFE Arena to raise money for Breast Cancer Education and Awareness.
The event was a hit, and resulted in over $50,000 raised for charity.
Delta Delta Delta won first place for sororities and Delta Upsilon won first place for fraternities. Both Greek organizations raised over $8,000.
Breast Cancer has a profound impact on the lives of many women nationwide. According to U.S. breast cancer statistics, approximately 1-in-8 women will develop invasive breast cancer over the course of their lifetime. 
“Whether you’re competing in Lip Sync, wearing a ribbon on your backpack or just donating a dollar to the cause. You are all helping in such a tremendous way,” said Zeta Tau Alpha sister Kelly Capen during the event.
If you would like to donate towards Breast Cancer Education and Awareness click here



For most students, applying for internships means hours of formatting resumes, requesting letters of recommendation, and writing essays about why they deserve the position. For UCF senior Zack Levine, however, it meant combing through hours of Jimmy Fallon videos and learning guitar chords.

On Sept. 15, Levine, 20, posted an application video on YouTube for an internship position at The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. In the video, Levine travels all over the UCF main campus playing a guitar and expressing his qualifications to Fallon through song.
Levine’s work on the video began as early as February when he wrote the first draft of the lyrics, incorporating plenty of references for Tonight Show fans to enjoy, such as name drops of announcer Steve Higgins an in-house band leader Questlove. The lyrics are sung over the music of Fallon’s 2012 song about the BP oil spill “Balls in Your Mouth,” with Levine only learning to play the guitar over the summer. When the time came to record his vocals, he called in a favor with friends in his hometown of Fort Lauderdale, who let him use their recording studio.
As for the video itself, Levine began by editing together clips of Fallon to match the lyrics he had written from him, including self-deprecating comments about Levine’s lack of job prospects as a Radio and Television major. Levine shot his portion of the video over Labor Day weekend with the help of fellow RTV student Josh Staniszewski. Taking advantage of the nearly empty campus, they were able to get plenty of shots of Levine performing at Memory Mall, the reflection pond, the Student Union, and even inside several class buildings.
Before deciding on the RTV major, Levine originally intended to study Film through the BFA program. When he was not accepted, he decided to pursue RTV instead, with the Cinema Studies BA program as a minor. He has held three production-based internships this year: a practicum learning course at UCF and internships at MoneyShow.com and Central Florida Hillel, the latter of which he currently holds.
His main passion is comedy, though, which began as early as high school. At UCF, he has performed at three improv comedy clubs and Knights Got Talent and been active in the registered student organization The Improv Academy. He also worked as a food runner at the Orlando Improv comedy club, which allowed him to meet such comedians as Jay Pharoah of Saturday Night Live and a personal hero of his, stand-up comedian Jo Koy.
Levine hopes that working with The Tonight Show will be the first step in him working professional in comedy. When asked why he chose Fallon’s show over other late night shows, Levine said, “Fallon is simply the king of late night… He will go down as the GOAT in late night comedy when he retires… He is an influence to me as I’m sure he is to thousands of other students looking to get into comedy or late night.”
If Levine is selected, it won’t be his first time seeing Fallon. He got front row seats as an audience member in an April 2017 episode taped in Orlando in which Fallon interviewed Vin Diesel. “Getting to watch the show live was an unforgettable experience,” Levine said. “Fallon is just such a powerful presence. To be in the same room with him was incredible.”
Levine said, “I hope, if chosen, I can represent UCF, and the city of Orlando to the best of my ability.”



The Line: Knights -17
Kickoff: Saturday 8:00 P.M, Nippert Stadium
TV Broadcast: ESPNU
Radio: FM 96.9/ AM 740
ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF (3-0) takes on the Cincinnati Bearcats (2-3) this weekend.  UCF is ranked 25th in the AP poll, coming off a huge win versus Memphis last Saturday.  Coach Frost has been downplaying all the hype, as one might expect.
“I asked the players what their record was this morning and they knew the answer. It’s 0-0. I asked them where we were ranked, and they said, ‘We’re not,” Frost said. “We’re pretending these first three games never happened because we’ve got an eight-game season in front of us.”
This weekend is a perfect setup for a letdown.  Cincinnati is down right now, and UCF is flying high.  Cincinnati is a conference foe, and at home, so anything can happen. Throw out the record books in a conference matchup.
Cincinnati’s program hasn’t been headed in the right direction since leaving the Big East.  Their record has declined year by year.  Last year they finished 4-8.  This doesn’t mean UCF should take them lightly.  Cincinnati hired coach Luke Fickell last offseason and is attempting to shift their culture.  Last year Coach Fickell was the defensive coordinator for Ohio State, where he learned a couple things about a winning culture.
“Toughness is a skill, it’s developed. Our culture is all about toughness – You win on toughness,” Fickell stated.
Although Cincinnati hasn’t done a ton of winning this year, they have done some good things.  Junior Quarterback Hayden Moore has a 2:1 touchdown to Interception ratio, with a 108.8 passing efficiency rating.  Their run game has also been effective.  They have a balanced running attack, with three backs reaching the 100-yard mark.
Erik Chinander, UCF’s defensive coordinator, seems concerned with the lack of tape on Cincinnati’s offense.
“They’ve got a lot of stuff, stuff that we haven’t prepared for because their staff is new. It’s like playing a whole new team, which is not always the best,” Coach Chinander said.
The defense is where we expected to see improvements on this Bearcat team.  They have a linebacking tandem that is supposed to be the most talented in the conference.  Perry Young and Jaylyin Minor are two super talented guys.
Perry Young is a sophomore who is really coming into his own this year.  He originally signed on with Cincinnati as a safety, but is playing great in the middle.  Last week versus Marshall he had 13 tackles, 1 for loss, and a recovered fumble.  Playing next to senior linebacker Jaylyin Minor has really helped his development.  It will be interesting to see if UCF can continue to build on their running success in recent weeks facing this talented crew.
UCF will no longer catch anyone by surprise.  Being ranked in the AP poll puts a target on your chest, and the team will need be at their best week in and week out.  Coach Frost is confident this team will not be affected by any of this.
“The leadership I’ve seen from Pat Jasinski, Shaquem Griffin, Wyatt Miller and a bunch of other guys, they’re not going to let this group lose focus. Our formula has been working to this point, making us a better football team. I think they understand if we stick to that, that gives us our best chance,” Frost said Monday afternoon.
This UCF has grabbed the attention of this city, and the country.  Frost continues to preach short term goals, and Cincinnati is next on their agenda.



