Let the campaigning begin.
A second set of candidates has now entered the race for SGA President and Vice President. Meet Josh Boloña and Jad Shalhoub.
“I am a Junior studying Industrial Engineering with a passion in leadership and service to others. I currently hold the position of Greek Council President, which oversees and advocates for 49 fraternities and sororities here on campus,” Boloña told Knight News. 
Boloña has also been an SGA Senator for the past year and a half, and he has great pride in his accomplishments. 
“I have played a role in funding over 1 million dollars to individuals and organizations to either go to conferences or host events. One of my main accomplishments as a senator was helping create the student body advocacy committee and becoming its first chair. The goal of the committee is to take in student input on issues around campus and push the opinion of the student body forward as a collective legislative branch,” Boloña said.
If elected, Boloña says he will always keep the students he is serving in mind.
“As President I will promise to make impactful decisions only after taking in the perspectives of the students it will be affecting. This will be reflected when sitting on the Board of Trustees, as I will be more of a student voice rather than conforming to the will of campus decision makers,” Boloña said.
His running mate, Jad Shalhoub, is a brother and former president of the Sigma Chi fraternity. 
“The Vice-Presidential position has been greatly underused in the past years. Normally, options for VP are selected for earning the presidential candidate votes during the election period, as opposed to having the vision of them playing the key role they should once elected. It is my vision as VP to use my historically underused platform to liaise between SGA and the Students, so that everyone can be informed and have a say in the decisions being made at the executive and administrative level,” Shalhoub said.
Together, the two have big plans for change if elected.
“Jad and I believe that the influence the executive branch is given has barely scratched the surface on the student experience. We are looking into the bigger picture which is bringing consistent University pride to the student body, not tossing out student dollars that never make its way back to the experience we have here at UCF,” Boloña said.
Josh and Jad also hope to fix one major headache of UCF students, parking.
“We specifically plan on permanently fixing your common issue of parking, not by adding spots, but instead through policy. We also plan on improving school spirit and tailgate experience by consistently partnering up with UCF Athletics; however, our campaign is more than that.”
If elected, the two also plan to conduct town hall meetings where the students voices will be able to be heard.
“The voice of the students will be heard on month by month basis in town halls we plan on having. The voices heard is what will ultimately drive us in pursuing the bigger issues that students want to get resolved,” Boloña said.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued coverage.



Students were able to celebrate school spirit at a Tie Dye event held by the UCF SGA on Thursday afternoon.
The SGA dubbed the event “UCF is Tie Dye for” and was held in front of the Student Union from 12:00 p.m. to 2 p.m.  

UCF students, enthused by the promotion of the free T-Shirt and Tie Dye service, gathered in a line that at one point stretched out all the way from the Student Union Patio back to the John T. Washington Center.
When asked why she came to the event, UCF student Victoria Lee summed it up simply, “Free Shirts!”

The SGA advertised the event on campus, as well as on Facebook. They also were able to catch attention of students because of the increasingly long line. 

Asked how they heard about the event, “I just got in line,” said UCF student Minisha Rampham.   By contrast, UCF student Julie Wuenschel said, “I heard about it on Facebook.”
Ashleigh Taylor, UCF student and Director of Communications for the SGA, said that the purpose of the event was “To help promote the UCF Student Government Association, as well as spread school spirit on campus.” 
The event was “a fun and positive way,” according to Taylor, for the Student Government Association to get their name out to the student body. 
Taylor and other members of SGA also offered extra information about SGA to students, which included details about the new SGA council open to students.
John Shipley, Juanita Umana, and Zoe Hammerschmidt contributed to this article.



