Protests were held outside of Verizon Mobile stores last Thursday, including the location at Waterford Lakes near the University of Central Florida, to protest an upcoming vote by the Federal Communications Commission to end what is commonly known as net neutrality.
Protesters gathered outside the storefront around noon, carrying signs that said “SAVE NET NEUTRALITY EQUAL ACCESS FOR ALL” and “net neutrality protects our rights.” Roughly 30 people stood outside the door and on the road, getting the attention from those who passed and honked to show their support.
“Hope is that they won’t pass the law and that we keep our rights, but today’s protest is more about awareness,” said Gabby Heinlein, who came with a group of activists called Love Tribe. “Politicians are passing these laws without anyone knowing. We’re here to get the word out there so people can critically think for themselves.”
Net neutrality is a group of laws that regulate the internet as a free market system for any website on it. For example, if someone subscribe to a lesser known video streaming service it should hypothetically load at the same rate as larger services like Netflix or Hulu. As of now, those larger corporations can’t pay a fee to be in what is commonly referred to as a “fast lane.”
“They say it’s going to make it faster for us, when in reality it’s only going to work in favor of the large corporations. It’s going to ruin the internet for the little guys,” one protester told Knight News.
Protesters voiced a general disdain for what the FCC is attempting to do and were quick to say that corruption is to blame.
Verizon Wireless has been a large advocate for ending Net Neutrality and they may get their way. Agit Pai, the chairman of the FCC, used to be one of Verizon’s top lawyers. Many of the protesters voiced opinions through their chants and signs suggesting that he is still working for them in some capacity.
Others went as far to say that ending net neutrality is an infringement on the First Amendment. Joey Leach, a spokesman for the Orlando branch of the Industrial Workers of the World, says his organization has been defending the speech rights for industrial workers since its inception, a fight which he said continues today.
“The IWW dates back to protecting the free speech of factory workers who were arrested for soapboxing and trying to organize unions,” Leach said. “We feel that ending net neutrality is the modern attack on free speech. It will prevent smaller unions and entities from getting messages out.”



Fraternities and sororities at the University of Central Florida will not be able to host any social activities or events that serve alcohol for the first six weeks of the upcoming spring semester, Knight News has learned.
A mass email sent Friday by Greek Council announced a set of “guidelines” which aim to “greatly impact the Greek community at UCF as we return to the original values of our organizations: brotherhood/sisterhood, service, leadership and scholarship.”
“We recognize that there are multiple elements that need to be addressed to promote the advancement of our organizations,” the email said. “We are committed to doing whatever it takes to maintain a safe and healthy community.”
The six-week period mentioned in the email is meant to be used to implement “corrective measures” as well as investigate fraternity and sorority behavior:
While Greek Council did not respond to a request for comment, UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said the new guidelines were spearheaded by student leaders and were not directly influenced by university administration.
The university, however, does the support the Greek Council’s decision.
The guidelines came after multiple controversies involving misconduct by Greek organizations, which led to two chapters facing interim suspension by UCF.
Alpha Tau Omega was suspended last August after two members were accused of raping a woman who attended a party hosted by the organization in July. The suspension has since been lifted but the fraternity could face sanctions following the university’s investigation, which could include getting their chapter revoked.
In early November, the sorority Alpha Xi Delta was suspended for hazing and alcoholic misconduct after a former sister told university officials about an incident at a bar where underage were told to drink large amounts of alcohol.
According to the incident report filed with the Office of Student Conduct, the chapter’s executive board were made aware of the incident but did not take action.
Both investigations are currently underway.
Other Greek organizations that have faced suspension this year, like Lambda Theta Phi in June for hazing, alcohol misconduct and sexual misconduct; and Alpha Epsilon Pi in March after a pledge master allegedly placed a gun on a recruit’s neck as part of a hazing ritual.



