ORLANDO, Fla. – This is UCF vs. Maryland round two, and oh, how far they have come! When these two teams met in 2016 both were fledgling programs in transition – transitioning coaching staffs, schemes, recruit demographics and body types.
McKenzie Milton started under center for the first time in his collegiate career, fumbling the ball six times but keeping UCF competitive in a 30-24 overtime loss. He flashed promise and athleticism, but clearly had a ton of growing to do. It was, after all, an emergency decision to burn his redshirt in replacing the injured Justin Holman.
His stat line in that brutal loss went for three lost fumbles, completed 21-of-36 passes for two touchdowns and an interception, which by all means a decent performance, but one marred by a fair amount of mistakes from inexperience. He did lose three fumbles, but it could have been worse; McKenzie was actually credited for fumbling six times, UCF just fell on half of them.
“Was it six fumbles? Sweet, fancy Moses,” recalled Coach Frost.
“We watched the game from last year a bunch of times. I think overall as a team we played pretty well – well enough to win. We made too many mistakes and it cost us the ball game. We had fumbles on exchanges, we had tipped ball interceptions, McKenzie threw one backwards over his head for a fifteen-yard loss or something.”
This year McKenzie enters the game still in the afterglow of his last performance, a four-touchdown torching of FIU that stuck him with AAC Offensive Player of the Week for College Football’s opening weekend. He has a year of experience under his belt, countless tools around him and a better grasp on the playbook.
It would appear to be the perfect setup to take the sting from the raw wound of a tough-fought overtime loss. It would appear to be a path to redemption, especially with the consideration that Maryland will themselves be starting a true-freshman quarterback after their established starter went down with an early-season injury.
Poetic, no? Not to McKenzie. He’s stepped away from the macro view of his career for a scoped down, single game mentality.
“You can’t ever erase a loss, it was last year so I’m not really too worried about it,” said Milton “I’ve just got to take it one game at a time, so I’m not really dwelling on last year, I’m not looking at it like payback, I just want to be 1-0 at the end of this week.”
A season removed from the game, Milton’s growth parallels the transformation both teams have undergone.
“I think he’s kind of indicative of both teams right now,” UCF Head Coach Scott Frost said this week. “He’s a lot better player than he was when these two teams first squared off last year, but I think both teams as a whole are better than they were when UCF played Maryland last year. I expect a great competition and a whale of a game.”
UCF and Maryland are now both well along in their transitory phases, garnering attention on the national stage – an easy feat when you rank out as the NCAA’s number one and two scoring offenses.
Maryland is 2-0 and coming off a well-placed bye week, UCF is eager to truly begin the season after circumstance and will have fresh legs all around. Expect these evenly matched up-and-comers to put on a show on Saturday, but this time with established identities.



By: Daniel Wolff
ORLANDO, Fla.- UCF (1-0) takes on the Maryland Terrapins (2-0) this Saturday, following two consecutive weekends off due to Hurricane Irma. Last year the Knights lost to Maryland 30-24 in McKenzie Milton’s first career start, a double-overtime thriller.
Maryland joined the Big 10 in 2014, and the program has been improving since.
This year they intend on making the leap into the national spotlight under the guidance of Head Coach DJ Durkin, who has gone 8-7 at the helm of the Terrapins since taking over in 2016. They are currently 2-0, and sit just outside of the AP top 25 poll while boasting the nation’s No. 2 scoring offense.
Here are some keys to this Saturday’s game.
Terrapin Offense:
The Running Game
The offense starts up front for Maryland. The offensive line has been impressive thus far, opening huge holes for their running backs in addition to protecting the quarterback. The team has rushed for 315 yards per game. Junior running back Ty Johnson leads the way, rushing for 257 yards on only 17 carries.
“We don’t want (to play) someone who is averaging 100 yards a game, we want the best of the best, we want the heavyweight championship. You’ve got to beat the champion sometime, so it’s going to be a good one. I’m excited.,” Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander said about facing Johnson.
Kasim Hill
True freshman quarterback Kasim Hill took over mid-way through the Texas game, after Tyrell Pigrome tore his ACL.
“He’s big, he’s six three, 230 lbs, he can run the ball – against Towson he showed he could throw it pretty well, so I’m impressed with him and the way he’s handled himself,” said Chinander.
The offense hasn’t skipped a beat since Hill took over. It ranks 2nd in the nation in points per game and Kasim Hill has completed a whopping 84.2% of his passes. Most of those passes were against Towson, an FCS school, but UCF should not take him lightly.
“I think they’re smart in asking him to do the things that he can do, he throws it well and he runs it well,” Coach Frost said.
The Knights’ Approach
The Knights’ defense is strong in the right places. UCF’s defensive front will need to play a big role. They will need to contain Ty Johnson from getting into open space. If they can force Maryland into passing downs, UCF’s pass rush could really fluster the true freshman.
The Knights will be looking to their decorated outside linebacker Shaquem Griffin to have a big day.
“We have to tackle, our D-line has to get after it, we didn’t really get after FIU. We have to come out strong.,” Senior Defensive Lineman Tony Guerad said. “We didn’t do everything we could do, we did our assignments. Expect us to get after the QB this game.”
Maryland on Defense:
Strong Front Seven, Man Coverage on The Outside
Maryland returned 6 out of 7 starters on the front seven this year. Last year this group struggled, but they have exhibited significant improvement in this young season. They held Texas to 3.16 yards per carry in week one, while sacking the quarterback five times.
“They’re similar to our defense, they are very aggressive, they’ll be in the three-down front, four-down front, they’re going to blitz their linebackers and on the perimeter, they’re going to play man-to-man. “They’re going to lock up the outside guys and put pressure on the quarterback,” Offensive Coordinator Troy Walters explained.
Inside linebacker Jermaine Carter Jr anchors the unit, putting together 15 tackles, four for a loss, 2.5 sacks and a forced fumble in just two games. He flies off the film, and has impressed UCF coaches and players alike.
“I see number one every special teams [play], so I know they’re tough kids. Not only are they good skill players, but also tough players. That’s impressive,” admitted Chinander this week.
Both McKenzie and Coach Frost mentioned the increased speed of this defense – stopping to mention Carter Jr independently – saying that the unit is improved significantly since the Knights had them in their sights at last meeting.
“Their inside linebacker, number one, is pretty good. Their safety number four, he flies around pretty well too. Their corners are pretty good as well. They’re all around a pretty good defense, they’re a big ten team. They’re big, they’re fast, they’re physical, but we’ve just got to make plays,” explained McKenzie.
Darnell Savage Jr was the other player mentioned in preparations this week, a talented 5-10 defensive back weighing in at just under 200 pounds who has an interception return for a touchdown this season.
Knights’ Approach
McKenzie Milton is going to need to take chances down the field. Due to Maryland’s aggressive play calling, there will be plenty of plays in which receivers will be matched up one on one. UCF will need to take advantage of these opportunities. Look for Tre’ Quan Smith to make a couple of big plays down the field.
This will be a tough game for UCF. These are the type of games they need to win if they want to gain national traction. Most sites have UCF as a slight underdog going into Saturday.
Expect this game to be as thrilling as last year’s matchup.



