ORLANDO, Fla. – From the boxscore, you would think that UCF (7-0) throttled FCS Austin Peay (5-4) in their record-setting 73-33 victory over the Governors on Saturday.
The Knights hung up more points than they ever have in a single game, scored in all three phases of the game and won by forty – but it was far from a satisfactory performance from the No. 17 team in the nation.
“I thought their offense played really well,” admitted Head Coach Scott Frost. “That being said, I don’t think we played our best game.”
“We made some mistakes and I’m not completely happy with our performance. It’s good – any time you can play less than your best and get a win it’s rewarding and it’s a good thing.”
Austin Peay had treated their trip to Orlando the same way that most teams would a bowl game berth, complete with sightseeing and relaxation time. UCF powered their way through the scheduled bye week but appeared to be the team on vacation in the first half.
The Governors hit UCF for a gain of 74 yards, scored on a 91-yard kickoff return, and put the ball in the end zone from 35, 12, and 7 yards out. They gouged the Knights’ defense for 352 total yards, held onto possession for 32:11 and played with real fire.
Pure talent was the difference maker in this game. UCF has a stable of bigger, faster, stronger players that would not be denied. Mike Hughes scored effortlessly on a kick return, Titus Davis almost took an interception to the house and Shaquem Griffin didn’t let anything stop him from scoring on a loose ball down the sideline.
Taj McGowan scored a pair of touchdowns, Dredrick Snelson came down with two of his own and McKenzie Milton completed 24-of-26 passes for 275 yards and three touchdowns. Even in their off-kilter performance, the nation’s No. 1 scoring defense found a way to get the job done.
“I don’t know if I was ever uncomfortable, I just wasn’t real happy with how we approached it,” said Frost on the effort.
“You can’t cheat the game of football. You’re either playing your hardest or you’re not. You’re either preparing as well as you can or you’re not. We didn’t tackle very well, we made mistakes, we weren’t disciplined.”
The mood after the game was almost somber in the press room. Interviews were shorter than usual, Coach Frost radiated with angry heat that had clearly not dissipated. It was the worst effort that UCF’s defense has displayed this season and can be worrysome with a stretch of three games leading into USF in which the Knights will be heavily favored.
UCF will not have an easy time bouncing back against the tremendous SMU receiving corps. The Mustangs are coming off of a close win and are loaded at the No. 1 and No. 2 receiver slot, a recipe for disaster with a matchup against the weak link in the defense’s armor.
“The score ended up being one sided but they played a great game and I give them a ton of credit,” insisted Frost.
“It’s going to give us a lot to clean up and go to work on next week.”



The University of Central Florida piled on 73 points against Austin Peay Saturday night to mark the most points earned in program history.
The Knights defense lagged in the first two quarters and gave the Governor’s relatively open access to the backfield. Austin Peay posted the most points against Frost’s undefeated team after Cincinnati’s 23 points earned at Nippert Stadium.
A fiery set of penalties had head coach Scott Frost earn his first unsportsmanlike conduct, setting the team back an additional 15 yards after a contested targeting call against the UCF defense.
Mackenzie Milton and crew used the second half to pummel the Tennessee team into submission and cruised to a victory by game’s end.
Stay tuned with Knight News for a full game recap and post-game video.



The University of South Florida fell to Houston 24-28 in Tampa in a matchup that went through the final seconds.
Houston trailed by two touchdowns in the third quarter but exploded offensively with two touchdowns to tie the game followed by another two scores in the fourth quarter. Quiton Flowers and the Bulls maintained the score, replying with a touchdown and field goal of their own, leading by three points.
With minutes left, Houston went on 4th and 24 with a long pass into coverage and secured a critical first down in Bulls territory. D’Eric King of the Houston Cougars ran for a 20-yard touchdown with 11 seconds on the clock, dashing USF’s chance for a comeback.
#USF is no longer undefeated. The Bulls fall late to Houston – UCF is the only remaining undefeated team in the @American_FB conference pic.twitter.com/g76ji8ZFDU
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) October 28, 2017

The Bulls (7-1, 4-1 AAC) went 7-23 on third down against Houston, failing to halt Houston (5-3, 3-2 AAC) defensively while putting up 462 yards behind Flowers.
USF’s dreams of a New Year’s Six Bowl have dimmed. The Bulls needed to be perfect through the season, even against No. 18 UCF in their rivalry match against the Knights on Black Friday. USF will need to beat the Knights to make an appearance in the American Athletic Conference Championship game.
Stay tuned as the Knights continue their home game against Austin Peay. Follow @UCFKnightNews on social media for updates.



Kickoff: Saturday 5:00 P.M, Spectrum Stadium.
TV: ESPN 3.
Radio: AM 740.
ORLANDO, Fla. –  The Knights (6-0) take on the Governors (5-3) this week in Spectrum Stadium.  The Knights are coming off their nearest margin of victory of the season after beating Navy 31-21.  This week SHOULD be a little less stressful.  Austin Peay is an FCS school, and hasn’t done much winning in recent years.  Their first win this year ended a 29-game losing streak.
Austin Peay brought in coach Will Healy at the end of 2015.  The program was in complete disarray.  Healy is slowly bringing the program around.  Last year the team went 0-11, but this year they are 5-3. With two of their losses coming against FBS schools.
It will be interesting to see how Austin Peay performs this week.  They are treating this week like a bowl week.  According to The Leaf-Chronicle, the team plans for this week include; Go to Disney World, get messages on their private jet, and do their walk-through practice on the beach.
“This is going to be like the super bowl for them. They’re coming down here and treating this like a bowl game,” Frost said on Austin Peay’s mentality headed into Saturday. “I’ve been on a team like theirs when I was at Northern Iowa, and when you get to play an FBS team there’s nothing in the world you want more than to knock a team off and beat them.,”.
Offensively the Governors have been switching quarterbacks throughout the year.  Jeremiah Oatsvall and Craig JaVaughn have both seen significant reps.  JaVaughn is recovering from injury, so Oatsvall has received much of the reps the past 2 weeks.  Jeremiah Oatsvall is a Freshman quarterback, he has completed 57.5% of his passes, has 3 passing TD’s, and 3 running TD’s.  He does it all the governors, even punting the ball for the team on 7 occasions.
Austin Peay runs the ball a majority of the time, they have rushed for 246.8 yards per game.  Expect to see an array of running backs on Saturday. They have many weapons offensively they shift in and out. Kentel Williams leads the way with 614 yards, averaging almost 7 yards per attempt.
“They present a lot of problems, a lot of formations, a lot of motions, a lot of different plays,” Coach Chinander speaks to the challenges of facing the Governors Offense.
Austin Peay has played well defensively this year, only allowing 19.9 points per-game.  They have 48 tackles for loss, 18 of those were sacks.  Their opponents have averaged less than 300 yards of total offense per game.  Much of this success is due to a pair of upperclassmen in the middle of their defense.  Gunnar Scholato and Jeremiah Mitchell have produced 127 tackles, 10.5 for loss, and caused 4 turnovers.
“This is a team that is a really good FCS team. They gave Cincinnati everything that Cincinnati wanted early in the year.,” Coach Frost said on Monday.  “We have to approach this like any other game and that’s the way our kids showed up to go to practice today.”
Expect to see some of UCF depth this week, especially if the UCF starters take care of business early.



