Four children who received 3D printed electromyographic bionics arms helped Limbitless Solutions open their new on-campus headquarters on Saturday near CFE Arena during a soft opening.
University of Central Florida administrators President John C. Hitt, CECS Dean Michael Georgiopolous, Provost Dale Whittaker, and Limbitless President Albert Manero, were present to show support for the student-created organization.
Knight News interviewed Dr. Georgoipolous, Dr. Whittaker, and Manero at the event.

The new lab space will be used to work on hardware and the custom expression for the designs, UCF said. It will also be the site for families to learn more about the program. The team hopes the space to be at full-function by early 2018.
A gift from @RobertDowneyJr to Limbitless Solutions #UCF pic.twitter.com/LKOncZEAiB
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 30, 2017

Limbitless Solutions, a non-profit started by students at UCF, received international attention by providing children and families of children with missing limbs, or limb defects, to have access to 3D-printed bionic limbs at affordable costs. Iron Man (Robert Downey, Jr.) visited campus to meet one of the children, Alex Pring, receiving a bionic arm and presented Pring with his own “Iron Man” arm himself. Downey, Jr. also donated a movie prop – Iron Man’s “heart” – to Limbitless Solutions at the visit.
Knight News will be covering the 5pm ribbon-cutting ceremony of @Limbitless3D lab’s soft opening at East Plaza Drive #GoKnights! pic.twitter.com/tAb26iSoX5
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 30, 2017




ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF cruised to a 40-13 victory over the Memphis Tigers Saturday night on national TV to remain undefeated in 2017.
The Knights racked up 4 turnovers including three interceptions, only allowed 382 yards of production from a red-hot Memphis defense and managed to post 603 yards of their own.
Sophomore Adrian Killins was electric for the Knights, compiling 183 total yards and two highly impressive scoring plays – one through the air and one on the ground. Killins ran 96 yards for a touchdown, breaking the American Athletic Conference record for longest touchdown run from scrimmage while also holding the second-longest NCAA FBS run for a touchdown from scrimmage, currently.
The last time UCF ran for 300+ yards was September 3, 2011, against Charleston Southern.
Check back to Knight News for post-game reaction from coaches and players.



