The No. 12 UCF Knights have earned a spot in the 50th Chick-Fil-A Peach Bowl against No. 7 Auburn on January 1, 2018.
Here’s how to get tickets if you’re a student (Buy through UCFKnights.com to support the Knights):
Student Knights Club Members ticket information
Student Knights Club members may purchase their tickets also starting Monday, December 4th at $50. Tickets at this price will be reserved for Monday, December 4th only. Starting Tuesday, December 5th, any tickets not purchased by Student Knights Club members will be released to the general student population. Buy your tickets on Monday! Tickets at $50 will be available anytime on Monday, from 9am-5pm.
Here is the full ticket price listing and directory:
Ticket Prices:
Ticket Options:

Benefits ordering through UCF: 
The number of tickets UCF sells for a bowl game can help the athletic department present the best possible bowl scenario for the Knights. It is critical that UCF fans purchase bowl game tickets from UCFKnights.com, as institutional ticket purchases can impact future bowl opportunities. Here are a few reasons to order through UCF:
How are bowl tickets assigned? 
Bowl game seating will be allocated by GKC priority points. Ticket orders from fans who are not members of the GKC will be allocated in the order that they are received after all pre-sale priority point orders have been assigned.
How many bowl tickets can I purchase?
We are placing no quantity ticket limits on Bowl tickets ordered. However, the first eight (8) tickets ordered will be based on your GKC priority point ranking. If demand for tickets exceeds the supply allotted to the University, we will make every effort to accommodate as many fans as possible.
Am I guaranteed the seat location I order? 
No. All ticket requests are subject to GKC priority and availability. UCF reserves the right to fill your order with a lower price ticket if supply at requested price point is sold out.How do my friends and I sit together? 
For season ticket holders who would like to reserve seats with other accounts, please indicate your personal preference at time of initial request (note: seat locations will be assigned at the priority point level of the lowest account holder).
When is my credit card charged? 
Customers that ordered by Dec. 6th will be charged Dec. 7. All others will be charged at the time of purchase.
Are there bowl ticket refunds or exchanges?
No. All ticket sales are final.
How will I get my bowl game tickets? 
Bowl game tickets are shipped via UPS the week of Dec. 11. Tickets ordered by 6 p.m. on Dec. 19 will be shipped via UPS. Tickets ordered on or after noon on Dec. 19 will be available for pick up at UCF’s Will Call on gameday. Please note that the account holder of record will be required to present a photo ID to claim will call tickets.
Where do I find information on UCF Alumni events and for the official tailgate?
Fans can visit the UCF Alumni Bowl site for information regarding Bowl Events at: ucfalumni.com/bowlbound
What if I cannot make it to the Bowl Game, but would like to support UCF?
Please consider donating tickets or providing a gift to the UCF Football Excellence Fund.
The UCF Football Excellence Fund was established to provide ongoing, recurring and comprehensive support for the Knights in order to build the financial foundation necessary to compete at the highest level. For more information or to invest in the UCF Football Excellence Fund, please Click Here or call the Golden Knights Club office at (407) 882-0411
MORE INFORMATION
Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



The undefeated University of Central Florida has earned a spot on New Year’s Day in the 50th Chick-Fil-A Peach Bowl.
The No. 12 Knights (12-0) will face the SEC’s No. 7 Auburn Tigers (10-3) at Mercedes Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia. Auburn fell out of the College Football Playoff projections after losing to Georgia 28-7 in the SEC Championship on Saturday; the Tigers rose through the ranks after battling Alabama, ending their perfect game streak.
UCF faced Memphis at Spectrum Stadium in the American Athletic Conference Championship in a double-overtime shootout. The matchup became the highest-scoring conference championship game in NCAA FBC history and totaled over 1400 yards for the No. 1 and No. 2 highest scoring offenses in the country.
UCF Claims Third AAC Title in 62-55 Double Overtime Thriller

It’s the second time the Knights have made it to a New Year’s Six Bowl in five years – the lauded 2013 season led to the defeat of No. 5 Baylor at the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in Phoenix. That year, UCF was ranked 15 against a No. 5 opponent. In 2017, the Knights are ranked No. 12 against a No. 7 opponent.
Scott Frost officially resigned as the Knights’ head coach after the AAC Championship and committed to Nebraska, his Alma Mater, to revive the Huskers’ program. Frost reportedly had cold-feet and expressed remorse over the days following the War On I-4 victory at home against USF – another thrilling game that drew 4.7 million viewers on Black Friday.
UCF Athletic Director Danny White addressed the media at Spectrum Stadium in a press conference later that night. White has conducted a national search for a new head coach to replace Frost; offensive coordinator Troy Walters will serve as interim coach until another coach has been found. White also stated that Frost and all of the original UCF Football staff will coach the Knights in their New Year’s Six Bowl game to give the team the greatest chance of victory. The new head coach will not be thrown into a New Year’s Six game for obvious reasons.
Frost, undoubtedly, had a much stronger connection to the UCF team than he ever thought possible. The resurrection from 0-12, to 6-6, to 12-0 came quicker than anyone thought possible – the achievement is the only of its kind in college football history.
The 2017 “dream team” will return for one last game, and it’s a big one.
Scott Frost will coach the Knights in their New Year’s Six Bowl game, officially resigns as UCF head coach

 



The No. 10 UCF Knights have earned a spot in the AP Top-25 after defeating Memphis in the AAC Conference Championship.
The matchup became the highest-scoring conference championship game in NCAA FBC history and totaled over 1400 yards for the No. 1 and No. 2 highest scoring offenses in the country.
Previously, UCF earned an end-of-season ranking of No. 10 in the 2013 season after defeating No. 6 Baylor in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl. The 2013 Knights went into the game as 16.5-point underdogs, dominating Baylor from the first quarter and later claiming victory.
Scott Frost has one last game for the Knights, and it’s a big one.
Stay tuned for UCF’s New Year’s Six pairing in the College Football Playoff’s Selection Show.
Game story:
UCF Claims Third AAC Title in 62-55 Double Overtime Thriller




The University of Central Florida has achieved the impossible – a resurrection from 0-12 to 12-0 with one season separating the two.
One-by-one the Knights dominated their opponents. A 17-home game win streak at Navy, snapped. An undefeated home game streak on homecoming at SMU, stolen. The War On I-4 and a one-way pass to the conference championship, the Knights’ for the taking, and the AAC Championship – featuring the highest-scoring conference championship of all time with the nations No. 1 and No. 2 scoring offense – with the Knights’ name in glory.
Wisconsin would fall later that Saturday to Ohio State in the Big 10 Championship game.
UCF Claims Third AAC Title in 62-55 Double Overtime Thriller

A dream season.
A conference-record 16 Knights on the all-conference team including Scott Frost as AAC Coach of the Year. This team had it all.
KNIGHTS WIN! KNIGHTS WIN IN OVERTIME! UCF is going to a New Year’s Six Bowl!
UCF – 62 MEM – 55 pic.twitter.com/iWBPOARfGD
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) December 2, 2017

Now the Knights are all but locked in for the 50th Chick-Fil-A Peach Bowl in Atlanta, Georgia.
Scott Frost will coach the Knights in their New Year’s Six Bowl game, officially resigns as UCF head coach




