ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF has released their first official depth chart of the season, answering questions Knights fans have needed answers to since spring football. Check below for analysis on the fresh faces and a podcast from Knight News’ Tyler Graddy and Juan Toribio of Knights 24/7.

Defense: (7 New Starters)
CB          Brandon Moore
CB          Chris Johnson
DB          Tre Neal 
DB          Kyle Gibson
OLB        Shaquem Griffin
ILB         Chequan Burkett
ILB         Pat Jasinski
OLB       Titus Davis
DE         Tony Guerad
NG         Trysten Hill
DE         Jamiyus Pittman
Offense: (4 New Starters)
QB          McKenzie Milton
RB          Jawon Hamilton
LT           Aaron Evans
OG         Tyler Hudanick
C             Jordan Johnson
OG         Chavis Dickey
RT          Wyatt Miller
WR         Tre’Quan Smith
WR         Gabe Davis
WR         Dredrick Snelson
 
Holes to Plug (New Starters)
There were a few glaring holes coming out of spring football – namely in the secondary, at linebacker, along with the offensive line and amongst the receiving corps. Coach Frost said that for the most part the depth chart has been set – with the exception of cornerback and offensive guard. Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander said as recently as Tuesday that the competition in the secondary will battle on until game day on Thursday.
Defensive Backfield: All four of UCF’s starting defensive backs left the program in the offseason – a loss of 11 interceptions, 2 sacks, 2 forced fumbles and 242 tackles. New
Linebacker: Headed into the spring football game, it looked like UCF had lost a ton of depth inside with the losses of Mark Rucker, Demeitre Brim, and Chequan Burkett. Luckily enough for UCF, Burquett’s decision to leave team didn’t last for long and he was welcomed back with open arms.
Shaquem Griffin remains cemented on the outside but lost a partner in crime, Errol Clarke – leaving a big gap on the other side of the field. With opponents likely to give huge attention to Shaquem, it frees up a massive opportunity for Titus Davis and position transfer Shawn Burgess-Becker to step up and eat.
Wide Receiver: Tre’Quan Smith is an absolute stud. His play in the offseason became a regular kind of special, where he continuously was said to separate himself head and shoulders from the crowd. The trick is the rotation behind him.
Offensive coordinator Troy Walters said that UCF will have to use a receiver by committee approach, but that Emmanuel Logan-Greene has looked sharp all through camp. Expect blocking-specialist Cam Stewart to start the season on the outside, but Greene could quickly play his way from the slot into a more featured role.
Offensive Line: Bookend tackles are nice to have. Really nice to have. They just don’t account for a system with pulling guards and constant high-tempo. Jordan Johnson stepped up last year at right guard but is making the cross-over to center while Freshman Sam Jackson has impressed enough to get the chance at Guard alongside Chavis Dickey headed into week one.



Knights on the Mall will open tailgate reservations on Sunday for the University of Central Florida’s football season opener against Florida International University.
On Sunday, August 27, at 6 p.m. students will be able to reserve a space here.
Tailgate time for UCF vs FIU:
Knights on the Mall has curated a Frequently Asked Questions page to assist students with their reservation:
RESERVATIONS
How do I make a reservation?
Reservations for each home game will be made on Knightsonthemall.com. In order to reserve a space it is recommended that you create your Student or Alumni account prior to reservations opening.
When can I reserve my space?
Reservations for each home game will open at 6 p.m. on the Sunday prior to the game.
Can I sign up for a specific space?
Yes. Alumni spaces will be in the section closest to the CFE Arena while student spaces will be available in all sections.
Can I make a reservation for the full season?
No. Reservations for each home game will be taken separately.
Can I reserve more than one space per game?
No, you may only reserve one space per game. If additional reservations are made by one individual, all duplicate reservations will be released.
What is included with my reservation?
Your reservation guarantees you a designated tailgating spot on game day. You must provide your own tent and other tailgating gear. Student reservations include a complimentary parking pass for Garage H.  Details for picking up your pass will be provided in your confirmation email after you reserve a space.
What happens if I register and later determine I cannot attend the game?
A link to cancel your spot will be provided in your confirmation email. Cancellations must be made by 9:00AM on the morning of the tailgate. No shows on game day can result in restrictions for future tailgate privileges.
How can I reserve a space if I am not a UCF Student or Alumni?
Reservations for Memory Mall are available for current UCF Students or Alumni ONLY. If your party is interested in tailgating, there are spaces for tailgating available in the UCF Gold Zone surrounding the stadium.
I am an Alumni, who can help me with issues regarding my reservation?
All Alumni must be verified by the UCF Alumni Center. If your information is not up to date with the Alumni Center your reservation request may be denied. To avoid this please update the Alumni Center with your correct first name, last name,  and email address. If you are still having issues feel free to email KOTM@ucf.edu for support.
ON GAME DAY
When can I check in?
Check in will begin six (6) hours prior to kick-off.  Your confirmation E-mail will further explain the game day check in procedure.
Who can check in, and what do I need to bring for check in?
The individual who made the reservation must be present to check in for their group.  Students will need to bring their UCF Student ID, and alumni will need a valid photo ID.
Where do I go when I arrive?
Check-in tents located in all three sections of Memory Mall. You will arrive to the section where your tailgate spot is located, indicated by the letter (A, B, or C) in front of your spot number. Staff will be available on game day to help you find your check-in area as well as your spot.
How early must I check in to keep my space?
You must check in within the first two hours of tailgate. Any spots not checked in by that time will be released and your space is no longer guaranteed. If you know you are unable to attend a tailgate it is recommend you complete the cancellation request from your confirmation email to avoid restrictions on future tailgate reservations.
How do I get a space on game day if I don’t have a reservation?
Unreserved spaces will be available to students and alumni on a first-come, first-served basis starting when check-in begins. Students and alumni wishing to reserve spaces on game day should report to the Section B check-in tent.
Can I drop off my gear by Memory Mall before parking?
Yes, you may do so by the CFE Arena side of the Mall on Gemini Boulevard North. Drop offs must be done quickly, and please ensure that whomever is entering the mall with your gear is the individual whose name is on the reservation so he or she can check in.
How will I find my space?
Spaces will be numbered and marked with reserved signs. KOTM Staff will walk you to your space upon check-in.
Can I bring my grill?
Yes. Propane grills are preferred, however barrels will be supplied throughout the mall for disposal of charcoal.
Where can I find UCF’s tailgating policies?
Visit the Game Day website. Violations of tailgating policies could lead to the suspension of future reservation privileges.
What should I do when I am done tailgating?
Please clean up your area and enjoy the game!
MORE INFORMATION
Where can I call for more information before game day?
Students and alumni can call the Student Union Event Services office at 407-823-3677 or email KOTM@ucf.edu.
Where do I go if I have questions on game day?
We will be monitoring the KOTM@ucf.edu email address and @UCF_KOTM social media on game day.
Where can I receive more information about game day?
For updates, like our Knights on the Mall Facebook page and follow us on Twitter and Instagram! UCF’s game day policies, including parking and traffic information, can be found at UCFGameDay.com. For the latest updates about the UCF football team, visit UCFKnights.com.
 



