A Univeristy of Central Florida fraternity brother was arrested Monday after being accused of sexually assaulting another student at an on campus party, according to a report from UCFPD.
Alexander Garces, a member of Alpha Tau Omega, was arrested Monday at the Alpha Tau Omega house and charged with false imprisonment and sexual battery according to UCFPD.
The alleged rape took place during Alpha Tau Omega’s on-campus house party “New Years in July,” on July 22, according to police.
ATO responded to the news on Tuesday, emailing news outlets that the fraternity had suspended Graces and is currently investigating the situation and plans to comply with UCF and authorities.
“Officials with the Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity learned of the police investigation on Saturday, and the chapter immediately suspended the man. ATO is conducting an internal investigation and will assist local authorities and university officials as requested. The alleged assault reportedly occurred during a July 22nd party at the chapter house. The party was approved by UCF and held in accordance to strict university guidelines,” said ATO National Headquarters in a statement.
According to Graces’ LinkedIn, he is majoring in health sciences and is currently trying to get into a physician assistant program and plans to graduate spring of 2018.
In 2013, Knight News reported that ATO was suspended after being found “in-violation” of university policy for alcohol related misconduct following an unregistered social event.



University of Central Florida Athletics announced a $2 million pledge Monday afternoon by Tony and Sonja Nicholson.
In 1996, the Nicholsons made a seven-figure gift to UCF, who then honored the couple with the naming of the Nicholson School of Communication. According to UCF Athletics, the Nicholsons also committed $2 million to fund the construction of the Nicholson Fieldhouse – the first full-length indoor football practice facility in the south. The Nicholsons also helped pay for the Knights’ entry fee into the Mid-American Conference in 2002.
“Sonja and I are proud to make this gift commitment in recognition of the outstanding work of many fine young men and women who have worn black and gold, who compete fiercely and graduate,” Tony Nicholson said.
“We are proud of UCF’s graduation rate of 94 percent, ranking it near the top nationally, including the Ivy League. Our support also acknowledges the leadership of John Hitt and former UCF football coaches such as Gene McDowell and George O’Leary and our current coach Scott Frost. Additionally, we are thrilled to support Danny White’s vision of building a nationally-recognized athletics program and helping deliver on the Athletics Village effort. He is to be commended for hiring some exceptional coaches. We believe our future is very bright.”
The gift joins a $25 million Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village Vision led by UCF Athletics and Director of Athletics Danny White and the IGNITE campaign, a $500 million university-wide fundraising initiative.
“On behalf of our student-athletes and our entire athletic department, our most sincere thanks go to Tony and Sonja Nicholson for their amazing generosity, not only for this gift but for all their support of the Knights over the years,” said UCF Director of Athletics Danny White.
“This gift will benefit our programs immeasurably and will help us continue to deliver an exceptional student-athlete experience at UCF and pursue our goal of being a Top 25 intercollegiate athletics program. We’re grateful that Tony and Sonja believe in the vision of UCF Athletics and are committed to helping us continue to grow.”
Tony Nicholson served as chief of the UCF Development Committee and Sonja Nicholson has served as a member of the Golden Knights Club Board of Directors. Both currently serve as a member of the board of directors for the UCF Foundation as well as the UCF Athletics Association.
“Tony and Sonja Nicholson have been outstanding friends of the University of Central Florida for decades, giving generously to support student success in our classrooms and in athletic competitions and volunteering their time on many university boards,” said UCF President John C. Hitt. “Our UCF family appreciates Tony’s and Sonja’s steadfast dedication and strong passion for their hometown university.”



The University of Central Florida football team will be hosting walk-on tryouts on Tuesday, August 22 at the Nicholson Fieldhouse.
Students who wish to take part in the tryouts must have all paperwork completed and with them for an orientation meeting on Monday, August 21 at 1:30 pm, UCF Athletics stated. This orientation will be held in the Wayne Densch Sports Center.
From UCF Athletics:
If paperwork is not submitted at the meeting, participants will not be allowed to try out.
The UCF football office will not take calls regarding tryouts.
See below for all documents required.
In the PDF link above:
-UCF tryout policy form
-Drug testing consent form
-NCAA eligibility page proving yourself as a Final Qualifier (for freshmen)
Bring on your own:
-Sickle cell test results
-Proof of physical (within the last six months)
-Copy of the front and back of insurance card (must be current)
-Copy of current class schedule (list view)
-Transcript
IF YOU FAIL TO TURN IN ALL DOCUMENTS AT THE ORIENTATION MEETING YOU WILL NOT BE PERMITTED TO TRY OUT.



