National Eating Disorder Awareness Week (NEDA) has been filled with a variety of events that promote healthy body confidence.
On Wednesday, at the Counseling and Psychological Services center, the university organized a body image workshop to inform and engage others on a positive body image.
Jade Garneau-Fournier and Janice Delgado lead the informative forum and discussion.
The conversation was initiated after a presentation of an intriguing and thought provoking Ted Talk by Meghan Ramsey.
Ramsey’s message depicted the social pressures and beauty standards for the modern day woman based on social media and the concept of “likes.” She also shared how the rising trend of #Thinsporation and #Pro-Ana are skewing young girls’ perception of what a healthy body looks like.
Moreover, she gave a shocking fact that in the U.S., Finland, and China, students  who are concerned with body image have lower grade point averages in comparison to those who are not preoccupied with body image issues.
“We need to start judging people on what they do, not what they look like,” Ramsey said.
The Ted Talk lead to an open discussion where students were able to express what they felt concerning the video.
Garneau-Fournier asked a student specifically what body image expectations and struggles does she face as a black woman.
The student talked about the pressure in the black community to look “slim thick” or have an “hourglass” figure.
Moreover, she continued to say that the struggles in the black community are also rooted in colorism and self-hatred.
She said that as a black woman, that there are certain expectations for their appearance that if they don’t add up, one often feels as though they are “not black enough.”
Afterwards, the leaders gave everyone a list of positive body affirmations.
The participants had to share which one stood out to them or “spoke” to them the most.
One particular participant said the affirmation: “My body is a miracle,” impacted her the most.
She then described a situation in which she was seriously ill and in the hospital for months. The fact that she was healthy and recovered was a reminder that her body is truly a miracle.
Garneau-Fournier said that the affirmation “My body is a gift and I cherish its abilities, great and small” was one of her favorites.
She said that it reminded her to treat her body with respect because it is the vehicle that carries out our daily activities. She continued with the vehicle analogy by saying that just as you fuel your car, you have to fuel your body with the proper nutrition and take care of it just as much.
Delgado said that individuals who are struggling with body image issues should try to connect with others who are facing the same issues. She said that there is a Body Wellness group at UCF that students are welcome to join.
Garneau-Fournier said that if you have a friend who is dealing with body image issues, you should never negate their issues. She explained that oftentimes we try to make people feel better by brushing their struggles to the side with compliments. However, we should be active listeners to understand their perspective and see where the root of their problem is.
By: Abisola Adeyemo



SGA presidential candidates Josh Boloña and Jad Shalhoub revealed their 2017 campaign platform to a packed Caddyshanks on Wednesday night.
The platform consists of five sections: Student Initiatives and Representation, Transparency and Accountabiity, Transportation and Safety, Health and Happiness,  and University Pride and Student Experience. 
Josh and Had covered a wide range of plans both fun and serious that they hope to implement if elected. 
Perhaps the biggest cheer of the night came when the duo announced that they planned to advocate for beer to be available in the student section of the football stadium.
The pair also discussed transparency, which hasn’t always been present in SGA administrations in the past. 
When Knight News asked whether the actions of student-elected SGA senators should be protected under FERPA Boloña responded, “We do believe that if you are elected and you are representing the student bodies, the words you say should be held accountable to your responsibility, so yes we are for being transparent.”
Josh and Jad’s campaign platform can be found in its entirety below:
Josh and Jad’s Platform PDF
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued coverage of the SGA elections.



The University of Central Florida received the largest donation gift ever from an alumnus.
Ken Dixon, a real estate developer from Kissimmee, pledged a $5,000,100 donation be received by UCF over the next ten years, Knight News learned, where the gift will be discussed during a Board of Trustees meeting on Friday.
“They’re going to spend the money as they (see) fit. I don’t like to direct it,” said Dixon, a 1975 graduate in accounting, to the Orlando Sentinel.
“This is money I’m giving to the athletic department to do the things they need to do to hopefully make it a Top 25 program one of these days.”
According to a Board of Trustees agenda, the gift will “help fund certain priorities of University of Central Florida, including building themed walkways connecting the training and competition facilities in the athletics village, constructing four recognition monument signs, and providing working capital to help fund other existing athletics priorities, as determined by the Vice President and Director of Athletics.”
The We Rise and Conquer Initiative by UCF Athletics will benefit from this donation – the gift amounts to 20% of its set goal.
The goals of the UCF Athletics under the campaign:
New facilities across all sports fall under the umbrella for the money raised.

“World-class facilities have never been more important to attract recruits and win championships. We are seeking more than $25 million in charitable gift commitments from alumni and friends to construct and renovate facilities where our student-athletes live, study, train and compete,” the campaign says.
This isn’t the first time Dixon has made a large donation to the university. The UCF school of accounting holds Dixon’s name after a 2004 donation amounting to $2.5 million to academics was made. The donation was eligible for state matching funds at the time, reaching a ceiling of $5 million.
With the most recent donation, UCF will provide Dixon with naming rights to an “athletics village,” pending trustee approval.
The mentioned village will span 95 acres over CFE Arena, Bright House Networks Stadium, and other nearby facilities.
“The Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village is defined as the current 95 acres or any successor site on which intercollegiate home game athletics are played, including the current CFE Arena, Bright House Networks Football Stadium, John Euliano Park for baseball (pending Board of Trustees approval), Nicholson Field House, Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership, softball, soccer, and track facilities, and associated practice fields and plazas,” a memo for the Board of Trustees’ upcoming Friday meeting said.
Photo courtesy of Chris Cummings



The We Rise and Conquer Campaign, constructed by Director of Athletics Danny White and the UCF Athletics board, sets a goal of $25 million dollars for the future of UCF Athletics.
In the campaign outline are milestones university administration have made to mark the progress of the donation campaign, along with information that compares UCF as a money-making school.
Budget comparisons with the Power 5 conferences, annual fund comparisons within the American Athletic Conference, and revenue comparisons with the Big 12’s Kansas State are among a few references to where UCF stands in terms of resources.

“That’s our vision for UCF Athletics. I believe — and I know you believe — we can be a Top 25 intercollegiate athletics program. But it takes more than belief,” White says. “It takes resources.”
“Together, every UCF fan can help us achieve these goals. We’re rolling out The Rise and Conquer Initiative that will allow us to build new facilities, enhance our existing facilities and continue upgrading the programming that allows our young men and women who proudly wear the Black and Gold to have a championship experience in competition, in the classroom and in the community.”
“With your support, we can create the positive impact that will provide an even brighter future for UCF Athletics and our student-athletes. Charge On!,” the Director of Athletics said in a statement.
The goals of the UCF Athletics under the campaign:
The construction and renovation of UCF’s athletic facilities will be one of the focuses of the $25 million in donations.
“World-class facilities have never been more important to attract recruits and win championships. We are seeking more than $25 million in charitable gift commitments from alumni and friends to construct and renovate facilities where our student-athletes live, study, train and compete,” the campaign says.

Included in the spending pool will be money earmarked for an expanded Carl Black and Gold Cabana, Field Cabanas, new student sections. Rewards, gifts, and special access to donators have been outlined on the We Rise and Conquer website.
Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



