The UCF Foundation has released its top 100 travel expenses after being called under review by state legislators.
UCF President John Hitt, former SGA President Cait Zona, and Vice President Grant Heston, among others, took a private jet that cost $3,875 to fly to Atlanta, GA in search of an athletic director, according to the report.
Former SGA president Cait Zona also flew on a private jet with University officials to Miami for the Board of Trustees Summit, a trip that cost $1,944.
Another of those expenses is a $1470.87 private jet ride, taken by UCF Vice President Grant Heston, Rick Shell, and others to the Florida Board of Governors meeting in Tallahassee, records show. 
The 2016 Florida BOG meeting began at 3:30 p.m. on March 16, and ended at 11:45 a.m. March 17, according to the media archives of the event.
Charges such as this one came to light after Knight News reported that  the UCF Foundation’s travel expenses had been called under review by Florida state legislators. 
In a letter to the university from the state of Florida, state representative Carlos Trujillo requested “detailed information about the revenues and expenditures of the universities of Florida,” and that the foundation release details of its budget including how much money is donated by alumni, the amount of student aid provided, faculty salaries, and its top 100 travel expenses. 
In the letter Trujillo states, “Your input will be integral to determining whether our State Universities are utilizing taxpayer dollars to their highest and best use.”
Knight News only acquired these documents after the Florida Legislature informed the University that these travel expenses were public record, after the University had previously tried to argue that the UCF Foundation was a private entity, and thus did not have to release its records.
In a letter from Chairman Trujillo to the University, Trujillo stated:
“A review of the information provided in your fiscal summaries to the House indicates that all of that information, aside from any identification of donors, either 1) came from or were included in an auditor’s report, management letter, or supplemental data provided to the Board of Governors, your university’s board of trustees, or OPPAGA; or 2) related to the receipt or expenditure of public funds—including the receipt or expenditure of funds transferred from the university. In either case, that information is not confidential and is not otherwise exempt, and that information may be disclosed by the House.”
The University released these records to Knight News after receiving this letter.
Knight News has been involved in an ongoing legal battle with UCF for the release of certain public records, including SGA president travel records.
The attorney representing Knight News in its open government lawsuits, Justin Hemlepp, had this to say about the recent discovery of the documents:
“For more than three years, we have listened to UCF complain that Knight News’s efforts to force UCF to cough up public records were a drain on scarce public resources. Now, having reviewed the records of this Florida House investigation of UCF’s expenses, we see that university employees and even student government officials are traveling around on private jets.
“Expenditures like this are why our state’s open government laws are so important, so the public can decide for itself whether paying for things like private jets is worthwhile.”
Knight News asked UCF for details on its private jet policy, or if it had one at all, but has not immediately heard back.
Second House Appropriations Request – Detail of travel
UCF Foundation 23 FEB 17
UCF Letter 2017 01 23
FL House of Representatives – Appropriations Committee
Response – House Appropriations Request-2



A resort-style lazy river will become just one part of the plan to transform the UCF main campus Athletics Village into the nation’s best out of all Division I universities.
The $25 million initiative, driven entirely by donations, features a comprehensive overhaul on the athletic facilities the university brings into play.
The Facilities Project full list of improvements includes:
When Knight News spoke to Director of Athletics Danny White on Monday among local media, plans for the Recovery Cove included the possibility of the cove opening for use by students and fans on UCF Football game days at Bright House Networks Stadium.
The UCF Athletics Recovery Cove will also focus on the health of student-athletes as will the Garvey Center for student-athlete nutrition.
The Recovery Cove currently holds an intended spot adjacent to the UCF Football practice fields and Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership. This area features the lazy river surrounded by palm trees, a separate pool, a mini-golf course, a cabana area, beach volleyball sand court, and more, according to the most recent visual concepts.

White said that other possibilities include the Recovery Cove being rented out privately along with new facilities planned in the $25 million We Rise and Conquer initiative.
Over the past few months, according to White, the initiative’s foundations have solidified with the current direction for the multi-million dollar plan. Several items, such as the name for the UCF Basketball Excellence Center, may change as time moves on. Facilities such as the John Euliano Baseball Park will break ground and begin construction as early as this Spring following the conclusion of the baseball season.
View the Director of Athletic’s Monday press conference below:

 
Parent story:
University of Central Florida Director of Athletics Danny White met with media Monday afternoon to outline the vision for the future of Knights Athletics.
Alumnus Ken Dixon, 1975, boosted the development of a $25 million initiative started by White and other school officials with the largest donation ever gifted to UCF – $5 million.
Over a few months, plans for a nationally competitive – aimed at best in the nation out of all the Division I universities – began to solidify. These plans were announced to the UCF community Monday morning with promises to change the face of the university’s athletics across every sport.

Student-athletes of these sports will benefit from brand new facilities dedicated to health and wellness. Sports that utilize on-campus playing fields will benefit from new scoreboards, rehabilitation facilities, and other amenities outlined by the White.
The Facilities Project full list of improvements includes:

In a press conference interview, White noted that the resources needed to complete the beginning phases of the project have been met. Ground will be broken on the John Euliano Park expansion and renovation immediately following the conclusion of the 2017 baseball season, with completion set at before the 2018 season begins.
“The facilities vision is something we’ve worked on for the last several months. We’re excited with how it positions us regionally and nationally in college athletics,” White said on Monday.
“We think our niche is phenomenal weather – we’ve got a beautiful campus and this awesome recruiting base here in Central Florida. We’re really trying to accentuate all those things and create what we feel will be an athletics village that’s as good as anyone’s is in the country.”
With the dedicated donations brought in will come, firstly, the Garvey Nutrition Center on the South side of the stadium – an effective and quick first step in transforming the health-centered aspect of the We Rise and Conquer Campaign.
The UCF Student-Athlete Recovery Cove will hold a spot adjacent to the football practice fields and the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership. This recovery pool/resort style area will directly benefit student-athletes and has the potential to benefit fans on game days at Bright House Networks Stadium, according to White.
Watch the Monday press conference below:

Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications



