Florida Governor Rick Scott has announced the suspension of tolls on all Florida roadways effective 5 p.m. Tuesday, September 5.
This includes the 408, 417, 528, and more, until further notice.
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 5, 2017

“Ensuring the safety of Florida families and visitors is our top priority and suspending tolls statewide will help people quickly evacuate and make it easier for all Floridians to access important hurricane supplies to ensure they are fully prepared,” Scott said.
“FDOT has been in constant contact with local districts and stands ready to provide traffic assistance alongside the Florida Highway Patrol and their law enforcement partners,” said Scott.
“We are continuing to closely monitor the developments of Hurricane Irma and will continue to take aggressive action to keep our state safe.”
Last October, toll roads were suspended in anticipation for Hurricane Matthew.
CFXway Alert: Due to #HurricaneMatthew, all tolls on #SR528 have been suspended until further notice. Please drive safely. pic.twitter.com/3plPzxRYRn
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) October 5, 2016

Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all UCF hurricane-related information.



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF has officially rescheduled their Saturday night football game against Memphis to 6:30 PM Friday night in anticipation of Hurricane Irma.
“In an abundance of caution due to the potential impact of Hurricane Irma this weekend, UCF’s football game against the University of Memphis has been moved to 6:30 p.m. Friday at Spectrum Stadium,” read a statement put out by the university.
NEWS: @UCF_Football‘s conference opener vs. Memphis moved up to Friday at 6:30PM due to #HurricaneIrma
Details 👉 https://t.co/joWKedEPIE pic.twitter.com/bIF22NQNXA
— UCF Knights (@UCFKnights) September 5, 2017

The tailgate will be canceled, though the stadium and parking lots will both open at 5:00 PM for fans.
Officials had been on high alert through Tuesday as the forecast models for the storm grew more intense, keeping fans updated often and early. Danny White addressed the issue on social media early Tuesday morning, forecasting the impending move.
We’re monitoring #HurricaneIrma closely. Still planning to host Memphis at Spectrum Stadium, but not sure when. Final decision soon.
— Danny White (@UCFDannyWhite) September 5, 2017

Read the full release below:
UCF-Memphis Football Game Moved to Friday
 
ORLANDO, Fla. (UCFKnights.com) –In an abundance of caution due to the potential impact of Hurricane Irma this weekend, UCF’s football game against the University of Memphis has been moved to 6:30 p.m. Friday at Spectrum Stadium.Parking lots and Spectrum Stadium will open for all fans at 5 p.m.
With the new game time, no tailgating will be permitted in any campus lot. First responders throughout Central Florida will be preparing for this Category 5 storm and UCF will not have the law enforcement resources needed to staff tailgating areas.
Additionally, the university does not want to disrupt Friday afternoon classes with an unplanned campus closure for tailgating. UCF also needs time to secure Spectrum Stadium and the campus should Hurricane Irma threaten the area.
“The best option for ensuring this game is played is to move it to Friday night,” said Vice President and Director of Athletics Danny White. “With travel considerations, we had to make that decision today. I thank the University of Memphis and the American Athletic Conference for working with us to keep safety our top priority while finding a way to play this game.”
All Family Weekend activities have been cancelled, and refunds for special events will be automatically issued. More information will be shared soon at http://fye.sdes.ucf.edu/familyweekend
Fans, including Family Weekend participants, who have single-game tickets for Memphis and cannot attend Friday night are invited to exchange their tickets to see the East Carolina home game on Oct. 14. Please call 407.823.1000 to exchange your tickets or for more information. .
 
-ChargeOn-



The University of Central Florida will be hosting a Campus Safety Fair Wednesday where they will demonstrate how to build a Hurricane Safety Kit.
The Campus Safety Fair will be hosted from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.
“Join us for the 7th Annual Campus Safety Fair on to meet campus and community partners, explore safety resources, interact with hands-on displays, win fantastic raffle prizes, and enjoy snacks and entertainment. Get there early to experience all this fun the informative event has to offer!,” UCF Victims Services said.
Hurricane Irma has escalated to a Category 5 hurricane at 180 miles per hour, ten miles per hour short of the Atlantic record.
“Should there be a potential for the Orlando area to be impacted, a decision could be made to close campus. That decision will be communicated via UCF Alert text, UCF social media and email messages,” UCF said.
“The Rosen College of Hospitality Management, Health Sciences at Lake Nona campus and Center for Emerging Media in downtown Orlando follow main campus closure protocols. UCF regional locations will follow the decisions made by their respective host state college.”
A decision on the UCF-Memphis game and Family Weekend will be made by the university later today. Sources say the game will be played at Spectrum Stadium on Friday, September 8.
“Finally, now is the time to prepare, not panic,” the university stated.
“Take precautions, such as developing a plan or building a hurricane safety kit, to evacuate or ride out the storm. A good hurricane safety kit should allow you to survive on your own for 72 hours and include basic survival essentials like water, food, communication tools and flashlights.”
“Your safety remains UCF’s No. 1 priority. Our Department of Emergency Management will continue to track Hurricane Irma in partnership with the National Weather Service, and we will make decisions with your well-being in mind.”
Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF hurricane related information and updates. We will be posting on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.



The University of Central Florida will be monitoring Hurricane Irma through its Department of Emergency Management.
Hurricane Irma has escalated to a Category 5 hurricane at 180 miles per hour, ten miles per hour short of the Atlantic record.
“Should there be a potential for the Orlando area to be impacted, a decision could be made to close campus. That decision will be communicated via UCF Alert text, UCF social media and email messages,” UCF said.
“The Rosen College of Hospitality Management, Health Sciences at Lake Nona campus and Center for Emerging Media in downtown Orlando follow main campus closure protocols. UCF regional locations will follow the decisions made by their respective host state college.”
A decision on the UCF-Memphis game and Family Weekend will be made by the university later today. Sources say the game will be played at Spectrum Stadium on Friday, September 8.
We’re monitoring #HurricaneIrma closely. Still planning to host Memphis at Spectrum Stadium, but not sure when. Final decision soon.
— Danny White (@UCFDannyWhite) September 5, 2017

Florida Governor Rick Scott has declared a State of Emergency for all counties in the state of Florida in order to prepare for Irma.
I have declared a state of emergency for every FL county to help state, federal and local governments work together as we prepare for #Irma.
— Rick Scott (@FLGovScott) September 4, 2017

The University of Central Florida Emergency Management Center will be monitoring the storm around the clock and assist administrators on whether to cancel classes.
“Finally, now is the time to prepare, not panic,” the university stated.
“Take precautions, such as developing a plan or building a hurricane safety kit, to evacuate or ride out the storm. A good hurricane safety kit should allow you to survive on your own for 72 hours and include basic survival essentials like water, food, communication tools and flashlights.”
“Your safety remains UCF’s No. 1 priority. Our Department of Emergency Management will continue to track Hurricane Irma in partnership with the National Weather Service, and we will make decisions with your well-being in mind.”
UCF will be demonstrating how to build a hurricane safety kit tomorrow at the Campus Safety Fair from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.
“Join us for the 7th Annual Campus Safety Fair on to meet campus and community partners, explore safety resources, interact with hands-on displays, win fantastic raffle prizes, and enjoy snacks and entertainment. Get there early to experience all this fun and informative event has to offer!,” UCF Victims Services said.
UCF closed classes for Hurricane Matthew in October of 2016, the first Hurricane in over a decade anticipated to make landfall at the time in the Sunshine State.
Students were widely concerned with how long the decision took from UCF to cancel classes and close the university as other institutions closed earlier before the storm. Students were faced with leaving campus early on their own time or sticking with an official decision seemingly last-minute, two days before expected landfall.
Although on Wednesday, October 5,  UCF announced classes to close on all campuses from Wednesday, October 5, at 3 p.m. through Saturday, October 8, 2016.
Last year, Orange County and Seminole County both enacted mandatory 33-hour and 26-hour curfews, respectively, for all residents. The Central Florida Expressway closed toll roads in anticipation for the Hurricane.
Hurricane Matthew brushed the East coast of Florida at a Category 3 and fortunately did not cause much damage to Central Florida. Meteorologists expect Irma to make landfall but do not have a pinpoint location just yet; Irma may move along the East coast as Matthew did, move up through Florida according to weather models, or move into the Gulf of Mexico.
After Governor Scott’s announcement, water and bread began to run on low supplies at the Walmart on Alafaya and Target in Waterford Lakes Town Center.
As Rick Scott declares a state of emergency, the local Neighborhood Walmart on Alafaya is out of water and running low on bread. pic.twitter.com/lLBybdHh1S
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 4, 2017

Target at Waterford Lakes is just about out of water. All that is left is a few packs of Fiji and Voss bottles pic.twitter.com/3bZczFbzoF
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 4, 2017

Stick with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF hurricane related information and updates. We will be posting on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.



