Scott Frost’s weekly appearance on the Orlando Sentinel’s Open Mike Show silently answered what had been on every UCF fan’s mind: will Saturday be Frost’s last game?
Article after article featured speculation, plans that Frost seemed to have never known about, and more. The second-year head coach has kept his head down as rumors circulate and confront. And still, the players under Frost have been focused on the next game – now the conference championship – as instructed season-long, with Frost practicing what he preached as the noise has gotten louder.
Needless to say, a dream season for the Knights has been realized and the second New Year’s Six game in five years is one more step away. UCF has accomplished a goal never achieved in college football and has claimed award, after commendation, after honors, et al.
Scott Frost Named AAC Coach of the Year, McKenzie Milton Named Offensive Player of the Year and 16 Knights named All-Conference

Mike: What has this team and this town meant for you?
Scott: “It’s hard to put in words. … I turned down some other jobs when I was at Oregon because I loved that place. There was a tear in my eye when I got on the plane to fly down here, but this place has been exponentially better than I ever could have expected. The fans here, the community, these players. This is a special place and it’s only going to keep getting better.
“I’m glad that I was the one to help get this place back to where it should be. This place should compete for conference championships every year because of what it is. People in this community have been so great to me with the birth of my child, and I can’t tell you how many bouquets and gifts and phone calls we got. I’ll always cherish the decision I made to come down here. I’ll be a UCF guy the rest of my life.”
Mike: Is there a part of you that wishes the Nebraska job wasn’t opening?
Scott: “I don’t know. There’s only a couple of places in the whole country that I would even think about coaching. … It’s not all about the money for me. It never will be. The quality of life here is second to none and these players are like family to me. Life always affords you tough decisions and we’ll see what happens. But I can’t tell you how much I love this place and these players.”
–
Sources within the UCF media community have confirmed that an announcement for Frost’s change of hats will be on Saturday night after the Knights play Memphis at Spectrum Stadium.
Knight News will be following any major announcements in addition to Saturday’s game coverage. Should Frost change his mind to stay at UCF, we will post an announcement outside of coverage – this one likely in all caps.
Follow @UCFKnightNews for complete game coverage of the American Athletic Conference championship Saturday at noon.
When you win AAC Coach of the Year unanimously and have that sparkle in your eye #GoKnights #ScottFrost pic.twitter.com/ml18YVZjkr
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 30, 2017

Mood #W #undefeated⚔️⚔️ #UCFvsSMU #newwallpaper
A post shared by KnightNews.com (@ucfknightnews) on Nov 6, 2017 at 7:37am PST




Former Transportation Coordinator Chandra Kethi-Reddy announced that he will call for the resignations of Student Government President Nick Larkins, SGA advisor Shane Juntunen and office manager Sandra Briggs at Thursday night’s senate meeting.
Should Larkins, Juntunen and Briggs not resign, the statement said, Kethi-Reddy said he will file an affidavit for Larkins’ impeachment and “push the University to investigate [Juntunen’s] and [Brigg’s] history of intimidation, coercion, exclusion, and the failing to provide a nurturing and educational environment for divergent students.”
“This is a matter of the future of our University and the future of the very concept of what a University should be,” the statement said.
Larkins, Juntunen and Briggs have not responded to requests for comment.
The announcement was made on Kethi-Reddy’s personal Facebook page Thursday morning. The platform has been used in recent days to trade barbs between Kethi-Reddy and Larkins, the latter using official SGA pages like the “Nick and Cristina” campaign page.
Larkins said in a strongly-worded statement yesterday that Kethi-Reddy had been fired from his post and accused him, in part, of sleeping on the job and cursing out a member of Homecoming’s executive board. The statement was originally posted to the SGA Facebook page, but was taken down moments later.
The post was later taken down from the “Nick and Cristina” page.
Larkins faced criticism for what some saw as a lack of professionalism of the manner in which Kethi-Reddy’s termination was announced as well as for mentioning in the statement that one of Kethi-Reddy’s family members had brain cancer.
The statement also disputes Kethi-Reddy’s claim that he resigned from his post as transportation coordinator, saying that he insisted on resigning only after being notified that he was getting fired.
Kethi-Reddy will be speaking at the upcoming senate meeting Thursday at 7 p.m., which will be livestreamed by SGA and Knight News.
UPDATE: The article was updated to clarify Larkins’ post announcing Kethi-Reddy’s termination was also deleted from the “Nick and Cristina” page.



