The Filipino Student Association at UCF was founded by Giselle Padrigone and Christine Castañeda. Each spring, FSA hosts an event that showcases the many cultural dances of the Philippines, including dance routines from both UCF students and famous performers. This year, the theme is “Cirque Du Sayaw”, and it will be held on March 26 in the Pegasus Ballroom beginning at 6 p.m. The event is free for all students.
FSA’s Sayaw event last year packed around 1,000 students into the Pegasus Ballroom, with a guest performance by D-Trix, a member of the dance crew “Quest Crew”, who appeared on shows such as America’s Best Dance Crew and So You Think You Can Dance?
Along with performances, the event consists of free food, games, raffles, and more. Many local businesses support and sponsor the event, and this year it is expected to be the largest one yet. The guest performers have yet to be released, but they are sure to attract a large crowd. 
You can find more information about the event on FSA’s Facebook page.
This article was contributed by Megan Scavo and Kevin Broadway



“We are based on values of equality, fairness and non-violence,” said Coretta Cotton, the assistant director for Victim Services, while kicking off UCF’s annual 1 Billion Rising event. 
Organized by University of Central Florida’s Victim Services, the event aims to bring awareness to the global issue of exploitation and assault towards women. Taking place on the Student Union Patio, Cotton’s speech was the first of a series of speeches, spoken word poems, and dance performances,. She began with a statistic.

“1 in 3 women will experience sexual assault or abuse in their lifetimes.”
This statistic means that over 1 billion women and girls will be directly affected by this issue in their lifetimes. 
More than 11 participants from various organizations on campus, service advocates from UCF departments, and domestic violence shelter representatives, banded together to help and support victims breaking their silence. 
One Safe House advocate, Michelle, performed a piece of poetry during the event. At the end of the piece, she says that one day she hopes to see women everywhere, “loving their bodies and running the world.” 
The event took place on Valentine’s Day, which Cotton described as a happy coincidence.
“The event just happened to be found on the day of, and while it is just a coincidence, what better day to bring awareness than the day of love?” 
UCF students couldn’t agree more. 
Joanna Gill, a Junior Sociology major at UCF, attended for the same reasons. She described herself as passionate about events like these that highlight issues that are often overlooked.

“No one should feel uncomfortable or unsafe living their life and being who they are.”
Surrounding the event on this day of love were cheerful members of various organizations, offering flowers, candy, and even hugs. 
Cotton advises students experiencing domestic violence, sexual assault, or any other form of violence to reach out to Victim Services. 
“We are here 24/7 for this exact reason. We will answer at 2 in the afternoon or 3 in the morning – whenever you need us, we are there.” 
That hotline number is 407-823-1200. 
The administration has various connections to help students in need of assistance. They’ve set up partnerships with the police and legal departments, counseling services, domestic shelters, and more. All partners were in attendance today and ready to provide information and resources to anyone that would listen. 
To learn more about Victim Services, or to get in touch with Cotton or another victim advocate, follow their social media here, or send them an email at askanadvocate@ucf.edu. 

By: Andrew Franklin, Daniel Hyun, Kevin Broadway, Mariah Creech, Kinzie Hicks



New student living options will come to the UCF-area in the form of luxury student apartments, according to Seminole County records obtained by the Orlando Business Journal.
To be named The Retreat at Orlando II or the Station on Alafaya, the project will be built by the same developers that constructed the $30 million, 221-unit, 900-bed complex The Retreat at Orlando, says the Orlando Business Journal.

Landmark Properties, Inc. may build the luxury complex on a plot of land 34 acres large just North of campus, the Orlando Business Journal reports. A minimum 900sqft set of apartments with a maximum height of three stories will sit on the parcel, similar to The Retreat on East Colonial Drive, just West of campus.
Stay tuned for more news on student living around UCF.



University of Central Florida Director of Athletics Danny White met with media Monday afternoon to outline the vision for the future of Knights Athletics.
Alumnus Ken Dixon, 1975, boosted the development of a $25 million initiative started by White and other school officials with the largest donation ever gifted to UCF – $5 million.
Over a few months, plans for a nationally competitive – aimed at best in the nation out of all the Division I universities – began to solidify. These plans were announced to the UCF community Monday morning with promises to change the face of the university’s athletics across every sport.

Student-athletes of these sports will benefit from brand new facilities dedicated to health and wellness. Sports that utilize on-campus playing fields will benefit from new scoreboards, rehabilitation facilities, and other amenities outlined by the White.
The Facilities Project full list of improvements includes:

 
In a press conference interview, White noted that the resources needed to complete the beginning phases of the project have been met. Ground will be broken on the John Euliano Park expansion and renovation immediately following the conclusion of the 2017 baseball season, with completion set at before the 2018 season begins.
“The facilities vision is something we’ve worked on for the last several months. We’re excited with how it positions us regionally and nationally in college athletics,” White said on Monday.
“We think our niche is phenomenal weather – we’ve got a beautiful campus and this awesome recruiting base here in Central Florida. We’re really trying to accentuate all those things and create what we feel will be an athletics village that’s as good as anyone’s is in the country.”
With the dedicated donations brought in will come, firstly, the Garvey Nutrition Center on the South side of the stadium – an effective and quick first step in transforming the health-centered aspect of the We Rise and Conquer Campaign.
The UCF Student-Athlete Recovery Cove will hold a spot adjacent to the football practice fields and the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership. This recovery pool/resort style area will directly benefit student-athletes and has the potential to benefit fans on game days at Bright House Networks Stadium, according to White.
Watch the video below:

Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications



Thanks to a $25 million We Rise and Conquer Initiative started by UCF Athletics, the university’s main campus will see brand new amenities.
These new facilities and beautification projects will benefit both students and athletes, as well as fans who arrive on campus for gameday of any sport.
Of the $25 million, $10 million have been raised as of February 24, 2017, according to UCF Athletics.
Ken Dixon’s $5 million donation, the largest by an alumnus in UCF’s history, pushed project plans closer to reality.
“With more than $10 million committed to our $25 million facilities vision, our goal is to build the best Athletics Village in the nation. Thanks to Ken Dixon’s gift of more than $5 million, we’ve taken a major step in that direction,” said Director of Athletics Danny White.
The Facilities Project full list of improvements includes:

“That’s our vision for UCF Athletics. I believe — and I know you believe — we can be a Top 25 intercollegiate athletics program. But it takes more than belief,” White says. “It takes resources.”
“With your support, we can create the positive impact that will provide an even brighter future for UCF Athletics and our student-athletes. Charge On!,” the Director of Athletics said in a statement.
Included in the spending pool will be money earmarked for an expanded Carl Black and Gold Cabana, Field Cabanas, new student sections. Rewards, gifts, and special access to donators have been outlined on the We Rise and Conquer website.
Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



