Knight-Thon revealed its theme and goal for 2017-2018 on Monday evening as students gathered in the CFE Arena lobby.
Students gasped and cheered as the banners fell to reveal the new theme, “Write Your Own Legacy”. Unlike last year’s $1.2 million goal reveal, these banners were blank. Amanda Marotta, the executive director of Knight-Thon, announced there will not be a fundraising goal this year.
“We are a growing program, we have hit crazy totals the past few years and our potential is only being slightly fulfilled,” Marotta said. “We think that our campus truly does have the power to do so much more than a specific number.”
In accordance with the theme, Marotta said: “what were really looking for is for the teams to set their own goals and make their own miracles and leave their own legacies.”
In past years, dancers would fundraise for months prior to the 20-hour dance marathon, where they crossed their fingers at the end of the night, hoping to crush their goal. In 2016, dancers raised $1,250,961, barely exceeding the goal.
“I think it’s a good goal actually. Now it’s not a number, raise as much as you can”, Daniel Canielkan, a UCF student, said.
Regardless of the goal, students are already raising money for the kids, in support of Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children, Central Florida’s Children’s Miracle Network hospital. Students will dance for 20 hours at the CFE Arena April 7, where they hope to make an impact on children’s lives.



ORLANDO, Fla. – Upon arriving back in Orlando mere hours after UCF had finished their rout of the Maryland Terrapins, the Knights were moving on to their next stop of the gauntlet; game planning once again for the conference heavyweight Memphis Tigers.
“I don’t think they spent that much emotion after a win like Saturday, because I think in their minds, they were going to win that game. So, we had fun, we enjoyed the win, but guys came back ready to go to work today,” said Head Coach Scott Frost on Monday.
Frost insisted that from the moment the Knights arrived in College Park, they knew it was their game to win. That they wanted it worse, and that nobody let too much emotion get away from them because, after all, this was just another business trip.
“I don’t think our players are buying into people talking about us being good yet,” said Frost. “We’re certainly not going to let them do that. One of the dangers of winning a big game is simply, probably spending so much emotion on that game that you don’t have much left in the tank and that’s one of the things that I appreciated on Saturday.”
Moving on to Memphis from a statement win would be tough if the team hadn’t kept themselves in check, as it can be easy to miss some of the details for the week at hand if you’re living in the past. For a Memphis team that came up in a big way against powerhouse UCLA a few weeks ago, the Knights will need every bit of focus and effort that they have.
it doesn’t hurt that UCF has already had to familiarize themselves with Memphis, and that with a small sample size to work with, the master plan written out before week two is very much still intact.
“Well, we’ve got two more games to watch, so there will be some changes in the gameplan, but I think the majority of what we had prepared for them, we’ll go ahead and go with. Our kids are already familiar with a lot of that stuff. It kind of helps us prepare this week, and hopefully be even better on assignments. We’ll start using that gameplan this week – see what we want to keep, what we want to take out and see which new things we want to add,” said Frost about the team’s preparation moving forward.
Some of the key takeways from Coach Frost to consider moving forward in the practice week:
“I think we’re getting better every day on the o-line. I think they opened up some holes for us in the run game, some of the schemes help, but some of those guys created some of those holes. I think the protection has been really good. McKenzie has had time to set his feet and throw the ball and we’ve made some big plays in the pass game. Our O-Line is going to keep getting better, and I think the first couple of games this year have shown their progress.”
“I think we’re getting some really good leadership in the secondary from our safeties. Trey Neal and Gibby are the shot callers back there and they’re making plays. They both tackled really well, got us into the right defense a lot. Mike Hughes has been a big addition, he’s been a guy we can trust on one corner to make plays and try to lock someone down. I think he’s just a really good football player. I think Brandon Moore will get better every week, he’s doing some really good things – making a few mistakes here and there but he’s really talented and I expect him to get light-years better every time he goes out on the field. I think we have some really good depth back there.”
“We rolled a lot of guys in there and got a lot of production from a bunch of guys, I think Jamiyus had a really good day with his sacks, but across the board – Trysten and Tony and Seyvon, AJ and Hazy, all those guys played well. We kept those guys fresh by rolling them in and out. I was really, really pleased with the production we got at the front.”



ORLANDO, Fla. — Jawon Hamilton went down violently in the first quarter of UCF’s 38-10 trouncing of Maryland this weekend, and will not be returning to the field in 2017.
Hamilton took to Facebook Sunday to tell followers that he would be cashing in on his medical resdhirt eligibility after a successful surgery. Coach Frost had said earlier in the day that he believed the injury to be significant but wasn’t sure on a return timetable.
“He’s such a good kid and such a good teammate that you hate to see anything like that happen to our kid,” Head Coach Scott Frost said about the talented sophomore. “Unfortunately, that’s part of the game, but we always just hate to see it. Those kids are working hard to be good at something, and give in so much effort it’s heartbreaking to watch that happen.”

“It has to be next man up,” said Offensive Tackle Aaron Evans. “He’s a big part of our offense, but again, we have a deep running back corps and I trust each and every one of them. I wish him the best, and he’s going to recover, I’m glad it’s just a break and not anything more serious. He’ll be back in a few months – a week, months, whatever it is.”
Hamilton leaves behind a deep running back unit that will rely on the inside talents of Taj McGowan and Cordarrian Richardson while leaning on versatile playmakers Otis Anderson and Adrian Killins on the outside.
“Losing Jawon, losing a brother, it hurts,” said Taj McGowan, who scored two touchdowns in the absence of Hamilton. “It really took a lot to refocus in, we really had to understand that we had something to do, we had a point to prove, so that kept us going. I feel like with the backs we have – from AK, to Otis to Cordarrian – even Greg McCrae, I feel like we have a good mix and match type of thing.”
The Knights certainly have the stable of backs to ease the loss of Hamilton, but almost every one of them is still relatively inexperienced and will have to grow into these prominent roles.
It’s a challenge that they will have to overcome with a quickness – because Memphis is coming, and that may be the pivotal conference matchup for UCF. For any battle like that, a Knight certainly needs his warhorse.
 
 



