On Thursday, March 16, 2017, the Board of Trustees at the University of Central Florida approved the naming of the UCF Downtown Campus Academic Building.
To be named Dr. Phillips Academic Commons, the campus’ first new facility will be part of a 21st-century Downtown Orlando community.
At 148,000 square-feet, the Dr. Phillips Academic Commons will be the “heart” of the campus that UCF will share with Valencia College. The new facility will join a renovated UCF Center for Emerging Media to 7,700 UCF and Valencia students when the campus opens in Fall 2019, according to UCF. The campus plans to provide a 600-space parking garage – about half the size of Garage B – and power generation facility.
“From the start, we knew Dr. Phillips would support this transformational project for Downtown Orlando,” Dr. Phillips Charities CEO Kenneth Robinson said.
“We are so pleased to see it come to life and to celebrate our shared mission of improving lives through the power of education.”
On February 23, 2016, Dr. Phillips, Inc. made a charitable commitment of $7.5 million, including $7 million towards the construction of the UCF Downtown Campus Academic Building. This gift met and exceeded a $20 million community support milestone set by the university for its downtown campus.
“Dr. Phillips has a long-standing partnership with UCF, including contributions to the College of Medicine, the College of Business Administration, and the Dr. P. Phillips School of Real Estate,” the Board of Trustees said.
“In recognition of [Dr. Phillips’] contributions to the University of Central Florida, the university will name the new UCF Downtown Campus Academic Building in honor of Dr. Phillips.”
A ceremonial groundbreaking and community event has been anticipated for May 11 at the site, where construction begins Summer 2017.



The University of Central Florida College of Graduate Studies earned 22 spots in the nation’s top 100 graduate programs.
Ranked in each of their respective fields, U.S. News & World Report’s Best Graduate Schools of 2018 determined UCF’s prestige among its peers. The UCF Counselor Education program in the College of Education & Human Performance holds the highest pedestal at No. 7 in the country.
“We are delighted to be recognized – especially to see the addition of our Exceptional Education program added to the list of Top 20 programs nationally,” Dean of CEHP Pamela Carroll said.
“Our Counselor Education program continues to do fine work with growth particularly in its marriage and family program, through its federally funded Project Harmony, and the excellent work it is doing to provide counseling opportunities in area elementary schools.”
The UCF CEHP holds the fourth-highest ranked program at the university – Special Education, which also holds the No. 20 spot on the prestigious list.
“UCF is on an upward trajectory because we are harnessing the power of our scale and ou pursuit of excellence to transform higher education in the nation,” UCF Provost and Executive Vice President Dale Whittaker said.
“These rankings are an important recognition of our academic excellence and rigor and a tribute to the work of our dedicated faculty. Beyond rankings, though, we truly want to be known as a university of great impact to our students and society.”
For the first time in UCF history, all seven eligible programs in the College of Engineering and Computer Science ranked among the nation’s best programs, according to UCF officials. The milestone moves CECS up three spots to No. 46 in the ranking (Industrial Engineering, No. 38; Electrical Engineering,  No. 55; Computer Engineering, No. 64; Mechanical Engineering, No.69; Materials Engineering, No. 71 Environmental Engineering, No. 74; Civil Engineering, No. 82).
“Our three-spot jump in the rankings is a testament to our college’s growing national reputation,” Michael Georgiopoulos, dean of the College of Engineering and Computer Science said.
“Our faculty, including 20 new members who have recently joined UCF, are pushing the boundaries of scientific discovery in their fields. As [one] of the nation’s largest producers of engineers and computer scientists, UCF provides high-quality, high-value education, and endless opportunities for students to pursue breakthrough research that is relevant to high-tech industry and vital to our nation’s future.”
The UCF College of Nursing’s Master of Science in Nursing moved up 27 spots to No. 82 and Doctor of Nursing program moved up 24 spots to No. 76.
“Currently, there is significant demand for advanced practice nurses as well as nurses with doctorate degrees to serve as leaders, educators, and researchers. Our growth in these highly respected national rankings emphasizes our commitment to educational excellence and to meeting the nation;s ever-changing health care needs,” said dean of the College of Nursing Mary Lou Sole.
“To be named among the top 100 nursing graduate programs is an incredible honor not only for the college, but for our faculty, students, and Knight nurses nationwide.”



St. Patrick’s Day will come with a Downtown Orlando pub crawl, party, and prize hunt in O-town’s Main Street District.
On Friday, March 17 the St. Patty’s Day Pub Crawl will begin at 7 p.m. throughout the District.
Register for the Mills 50 Pub. 
St. Patrick’s Day goers at the event will meet at the Brass Tap – Mills Park 1632 N. Mills at noon to receive
Celebrate the “luck of the Irish” at the Mills 50 District St. Patrick’s Day Pub Crawl! Purchase a wristband for $5 (cash only please) at either Wally’s Mills Avenue Liquor or The Thirsty Topher, get some green beads and enjoy drink specials at Restaurant ASH, Wally’s Mills Avenue Liquor, lil indies, Will’s Pub, BART, St. Matthew’s Tavern at the Orlando Beer Garden, The Guesthouse, The Brass Tap – Mills Park, Ten 10 Brewing Company,Santiago’s Bodega Orlando, The Barefoot Spa and The Thirsty Topher! O-Cartz Orlando will be on hand to transport you during the crawl! Drink specials include $3 draft beers & margaritas, $5 house wines and $13 corned beef & cabbage at Restaurant ASH; $5 famous Red Devil and $1.50PBR at Wally’s Mills Avenue Liquor; $1 off everything at BART; $1 off everything at Will’s Pub; $1 off the cocktail menu at lil indies; a free jello shot at Will’s Dirty Laundry; $4 “they’re after my — ” marshmallow milk stout firkin at Ten 10 Brewing Company; $5 Left Hand Nitro stouts & $3 green beer pints at The Brass Tap – Mills Park; $3 red and white sangria and $3 PBR atSantiago’s Bodega Orlando; green bourbon mash at The Barefoot Spa, a free green jello shot and a free green beer at St. Matthew’s Tavern at the Orlando Beer Garden $6 Jameson Irish Mules at The Guesthouse and $5 Nitro Irish Stouts and $6 Topher bombs at The Thirsty Topher!
Proceeds will benefit future Mills 50 District design and beautification projects!




