The UCF community is mourning along with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office and the Orlando Police Department after two law enforcement officers were killed in the line of duty today.
Deputy 1st Class Norman Lewis and Master Sgt. Debra Clayton were both UCF alumni, the UCF Police Department said in a tweet containing the picture used in this story.
Master Sgt. Clayton, a 17-year veteran of the Orlando Police Department, was killed trying to apprehend Markeith Loyd, 41, who is accused of killing his pregnant ex-girlfriend in December.
Loyd is still on the run, with a $60,000 reward being offered for anyone with information leading to his capture.
Master Sgt. Clayton loved and was deeply committed to the community she served, Orlando Police Chief John W. Mina said at a press conference today. She was involved in several mentorship programs for children in the Pine Hills and Parramore communities, he said.
According to the UCF Police Department, Master Sgt. Clayton earned a degree in Public Administration from UCF in 1998, and a master’s in Criminal Justice in 2002.
While searching for the man who killed Master Sgt. Clayton, Deputy 1st Class Norman Lewis’ motorcycle was hit by a van on Pine Hills Road.
Deputy Lewis, an 11-year veteran of the department, died at the hospital.
Deputy Lewis will be remembered by his “million dollar smile and consummate professionalism,” The Orange County Sheriff’s Office said in a tweet.
A former offensive lineman for the UCF football team, Deputy Lewis earned a bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice in 2004, the UCF Police Department said.
“Master Sgt. Clayton and Deputy First Class Lewis dedicated their lives to making our community safer, and they were outstanding role models,” UCF President John Hitt said in a statement.
“Our UCF family joins the Orlando Police Department and Orange County Sheriff’s Office in mourning their deaths. They are heroes and Knights forever.”
 
 



It will be a battle in Tampa.
On Monday night, the Alabama Crimson Tide will face off against the Clemson Tigers in a rematch of last year’s National Championship.
Alabama, ranked number one in the nation, has not lost since last years meeting against the Tigers. In 2016, the Crimson Tide came away with a nail biting victory over the Tigers in a game that ended with a final score of 45-40.
Tonight, Clemson quarterback and Heisman Finalist Deshawn Watson will look to avenge last year’s loss against the best defense in the nation, which only gives up an average of 11.4 points per game. 
Alabama is predicted to win by a touchdown or more.
The two teams will kickoff inside Raymond James Stadium at 8 p.m., the game will be televised on ESPN.



The city of Orlando’s hearts are heavy today after it has been confirmed that the officer involved in a shooting on Monday morning has passed.
The Orlando Police Department released a video of a flag-draped coffin leaving the Orlando Regional Medical Center.
Markeith Loyd is the name of the suspect Orlando Police believe is responsible for the shooting.
Loyd, 41, is also wanted in connection to the shooting death of 24-year-old Sade Dixon, Loyd’s ex-girlfirned. The shooting occurred on December 13. Dixon was pregnant at the time of her death, police said.
The OPD encourages anyone who has information relevant to the suspect to call 1-800-423-TIPS.
Stay tuned to Knight News for continued updates.



An Orlando Police Officer has been shot and the suspect is still at large.
A Tweet sent out by the Orlando Police Department this morning confirmed that one of its officers was involved in a shooting near Princeton Street and John Young Parkway. 
Local news radio producer Laurel Lee tweeted that two witnesses claimed that the officer was female and was shot multiple times by a man wearing a security uniform.

Motorists in the area are being encouraged to avoid the area altogether as the search for the suspect continues. 
The Orlando Police Department has confirmed that the Officer involved has passed away.
Stay to Knight News for continued updates.



