Pegasus Palooza, the University of Central Florida’s official Fall semester welcome week will host a new theme of Knight Wars.
Student Development and Enrollment Services and Pegasus Palooza revealed the theme to students in the Student Union on Wednesday.
“A week full of social, academic, and service activities for students to get acquainted with the UCF campus, meet people, and simply to have fun!,” Pegasus Palooza said. “Whether you are a freshman or senior, transfer or regional campus student, there are events for everyone to enjoy!”
 
The week of August 18-26, 2017 will have events free to students that will allow freshman to immerse themselves in one of their first college semester experiences and other students to continue to take advantage of free events, prizes, and more.
Student Development and Enrollment Services hosts events through the Summer such as pool partie LINK Launch. Stay tuned for more details on these on-campus events.
Photos: Pegasus Palooza



The University of Central Florida’s football stadium, formerly known as Bright House Networks Stadium, has now become Spectrum Stadium.
The name change comes as a result rebranding from Bright House.
According to UCF officials, signage in and around the new stadium will be updated over the next few months. The rebranding will come in time for the 2017 football season.
The first event at Spectrum Stadium will be the annual spring game for UCF Football on April 22, with a kickoff of 6:30 p.m. The second annual UCFastival will take place beginning at 11 a.m. with a full day of events surrounding the stadium for all of the UCF and Orlando community.
The 2017 football schedule:
–
Read more about the $25 million UCF Athletics ‘We Rise and Conquer’ campaign:
UCF BEGINS $25 MILLION FUNDRAISING CAMPAIGN TO IMPROVE ATHLETIC FACILITIES ACROSS CAMPUS
The We Rise and Conquer Campaign, constructed by Director of Athletics Danny White and the UCF Athletics board, sets a goal of $25 million dollars for the future of UCF Athletics.
In the campaign outline are milestones university administration have made to mark the progress of the donation campaign, along with information that compares UCF as a money-making school.
Budget comparisons with the Power 5 conferences, annual fund comparisons within the American Athletic Conference, and revenue comparisons with the Big 12’s Kansas State are among a few references to where UCF stands in terms of resources.
“That’s our vision for UCF Athletics. I believe — and I know you believe — we can be a Top 25 intercollegiate athletics program. But it takes more than belief,” White says. “It takes resources.”
“Together, every UCF fan can help us achieve these goals. We’re rolling out The Rise and Conquer Initiative that will allow us to build new facilities, enhance our existing facilities and continue upgrading the programming that allows our young men and women who proudly wear the Black and Gold to have a championship experience in competition, in the classroom and in the community.”
“With your support, we can create the positive impact that will provide an even brighter future for UCF Athletics and our student-athletes. Charge On!,” the Director of Athletics said in a statement.
The goals of the UCF Athletics under the campaign:
Become a perennial Top 25 college athletics program
Empower our student-athletes to earn a degree and attain exceptional personal and professional lives
Support UCF in achieving its goals through impactful, positive exposure
Energize all of Knight Nation, including alumni, students and the entire Orlando community
An introduction of new premium seating options for the 2017 Knights Football season.
The construction and renovation of UCF’s athletic facilities will be one of the focuses of the $25 million in donations.
“World-class facilities have never been more important to attract recruits and win championships. We are seeking more than $25 million in charitable gift commitments from alumni and friends to construct and renovate facilities where our student-athletes live, study, train and compete,” the campaign says.
Included in the spending pool will be money earmarked for an expanded Carl Black and Gold Cabana, Field Cabanas, new student sections. Rewards, gifts, and special access to donators have been outlined on the We Rise and Conquer website.
Photos courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



