A rendering of the North side of the future UCF Student Union expansion has been made available to the public.
The current Union was constructed in 1997, when UCF student enrollment included only 28,000 students. Now, with 63,000 students, the Board of Trustees approved a construction project and multi-million dollar agreement with Aramark to provide a 21st century heart of campus to students.
Additional seating – 400 to 1,150, and 315 seats to about 750 in the food court alone, power outlets, and a second floor to the food court can be expected with the project. Additional restaurants have been selected for the expansion.
 

The expansion has not been met with cheers by many, however. The contract included the loss of popular restaurants such alumni-owned Wackadoo’s. Business owners and employees, as seen with Asian Chao, among other restaurants, feared losing employment and a continued spot serving students in the Student Union.
Restaurants such as Huey Magoo’s – who expected to open their full menu with the expansion, had their contract terminated due to ongoing health inspection violations. Asian Chao and Huey Magoo’s fell to the lease termination. Corner Cafe closed over Winter Break 2016 due to a management decision to focus on Asian Chao and Huey Magoo’s prior to their lease termination.
November 2015 coverage:
On Nov. 19, 2015 the UCF Board of Trustees will vote on a 10-year contract extension with Aramark, the University of Central Florida’s campus dining services provider, to include physical changes to UCF’s center of campus.
If voted in favor, Aramark would cover a $13 million to $14 million expansion to the Student Union’s north wall facing Memory Mall, drawing no funds from student fees.
“The Student Union was constructed in 1997, when enrollment was about 28,000 students,” said UCF assistant vice president Chad Binette. “Today, with 63,000 students, there isn’t enough seating to accommodate student demand, and food options are spread throughout the building’s first floor.”
The addition looks to extend the wall outward and add a second floor, nearly tripling available seating for students in the Union from 400 to 1,150.
Estimated revenues for the university over the next 10 years could also yield $82 million, compared to the $26 million UCF received in the last decade.
Binette continued by saying that “Aramark has been UCF’s dining services provider since 2001. The current contract took effect in 2006 and UCF and Aramark can mutually agree to an extension that would take effect in 2016. [The] committee recommendation sends the proposal to the full Board of Trustees for consideration.”
A majority of universities have a single provider of food services on the entire campus, a contrast to UCF including several venders who are not connected with the main provider of food services.
In assurance to students, meal plan prices would not be impacted if a deal is reached – the university must approve any changes in meal plan prices under the current agreement and under the proposal. For vendors not connected with Aramark, prices must be comparable to what is charged off campus, officials said.
“Students are pleased with Aramark’s food services and would benefit greatly from the expanded seating,” UCF student body president Cait Zona said. “This contract would allow us to step up in the Student Union.”
Those currently enrolled at UCF will be a part of the process that determines which restaurants arrive to the main campus under the expansion.
Knights Plaza restaurants would remain independent of the Board of Trustees’ consideration.
December 2015 Coverage:
The heart of campus will be getting a face lift due to the new University of Central Florida agreement with Aramark.
An attachment on the Student Development and Enrollment Services website showcased some conceptualized union plans which include a second floor in the food court and new restaurants on campus.

“A major renovation to the Student Union will expand restaurant and retail space, more than doubling the seating available for dining and studying and easing overcrowding,” the report said.
The food court itself will grow from 315 seats to about 750.
Other Aramark plans in place are a restaurant by the Recreation and Wellness Center and a 63 South renovation. No new dining halls will be opened.
The definite restaurants have not been chosen yet. The release said that Aramark and UCF will use student input in the future to see what restaurants will reside in the new food court.
“Under the agreement, Aramark will begin overseeing dining services in the Student Union during the next few years and will work closely with students to identify which restaurants – current or new – that they would like to see. At least two of the restaurants will be local businesses,” the document said.
The release lists the restaurant categories that were recommended by a focus group:
The two local or alumni owned businesses have not been selected yet.
This project will be paid by Aramark, who will dish out an estimated $14 million for the expansion in exchange of its 10-year contract expansion with UCF’s dining services.

“Overall, UCF’s estimated revenue from the 10-year contract extension with Aramark is $82 million, compared with $26 million for the most recent 10 years,” according to the report.
The expansion will open opportunities for student employment. Employees from current restaurants will be able to apply for work at the current restaurants as well.
A concern current business owners said they had was Aramark not employing students.
The Aramark proposal faced a lot of controversy up to and even after its approval. Not all students and alumni think the heart of campus needs to be owned by a corporation.
“Although UCF and Aramark claim to want student input in the future, it would have been nice to have student input beforehand. Although a Student Union expansion isn’t what we have a problem with, we have a problem with one company controlling what that Student Union will look like, what things will cost and who will have the ability to open a business there,” Student Action Labor Project member Ofelia Sanchez said.
A construction date has not been set yet and food prices will be comparable to local market rates, the report said. The conceptual design will also not destroy the natural area outside of the union.

Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on the Student Union construction.



An on-campus water plant to be constructed and named District Energy Plant IV will provide more resources to affordably operate the growing needs of the University of Central Florida Main Campus.
District Energy Plant IV will produce both chilled and hot water to cool and dehumidify buildings on campus. Example buildings include the pending completion of the Research 1 Building, formerly called the Interdisciplinary Research and Incubator building.
The plant’s energy-efficient materials, combined with its overall life-cycle cost is estimated to save the university $121,000 annually in operation costs and resources, says UCF.
The total cost of the project has been evaluated at $14 million and may be completed in November of 2017.

“This project has been developed over three years and in many phases to ensure we meet our current and future energy demands in the most efficient way possible,” said Director of UCF Utilities and Energy Services Curtis Wade.
“Our goal is to ensure that energy at UCF remains as affordable and reliable as possible.”
The District Energy Plant IV will have the capacity to produce 8,000 tons of chilled water – 4,000 in place by the first phase, according to UCF. One thousand tons of chilled water will be used by Research 1 Building and the remaining three thousand tons will be added to existing underground infrastructure that serves nearly 75% of buildings on the main campus. At maximum capacity, the District Energy Plant IV can support six additional buildings the size of Research 1 Building.
Along with infrastructural support, the plant will serve as an educational tool for students with color-coded pipes to illustrate water circuits. Real-time electric dashboards will display plant metrics such as efficiency, energy usage, and dollars per ton being saved, according to UCF officials.
A LEED energy efficiency certification will be pursued and, if granted, will be UCF’s first industrial LEED-certified facility on campus.
Effective February 27, 2017, portions of the parking lot C2 will be temporarily reserved for the construction of the new District Energy Plant IV by UCF Facilities Planning & Construction http://fp.ucf.edu/node/112. There will be 50 additional B and C designated spaces on the second level of parking Garage C, says UCF Parking Services.



At the nation’s largest university by undergraduate population, nearly 50,000 students fight for 18,000 parking spaces on the UCF main campus.
In 2016, UCF Parking Services issued 43,000 citations in 2016, bringing the total revenue from the fines to $1.25 million – a 19 percent increase from 2015, according to an analysis done by the Orlando Sentinel.
UCF states that revenue from parking citations goes towards large sums on debt paid annually on parking garages constructed for students. The money also goes to salaries and expenses the university might encounter.
Knight News spoke to university officials earlier this year on policies held by UCF Parking Services.
Krishna Singh, director of Parking and Transportation Services, told Knight News that a one-time grace period will be offered to students during “the first week of each Fall semester to give students an adequate amount of time to get a parking pass,” as in the past.
Students who do receive a parking citation may appeal the ticket through a process conducted by a committee independent of Parking Services.
In the case of hang tags, if a student forgets to display their tag and receives a ticket and it can be proven that the student had a valid parking pass at the time of the ticket and merely forgot to display it, the ticket can be waived, according to UCF. If the infraction takes place again, the ticket can be waived but a $10 administration fee will be charged.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, February sees the greatest number of citations issued at 5,371. August sees a slower volume of citations as students return from Summer break and lax enforcement takes place as mentioned by Singh. On May 19, 2016, however, UCF Parking Services issued 455 tickets – the most for a single day during the year, generating $13,055 in fines, according to the Orlando Sentinel. Winter Springs High School and East River High School practiced commencement ceremonies on that day at CFE Arena. Summer classes began that week in addition to the ceremonies.
–
As defined by UCF Parking Services:
Citations not paid or appealed within ten (10) business days from the date of issuance, will incur additional penalties. Late fees will be added, a hold may be placed on class registrations, and your vehicle may be immobilized or towed from campus at your expense. Release of immobilization will not be available after 9 pm Monday through Friday.
Once a citation has been placed on the vehicle, Parking and Transportation Services personnel assumes no further responsibility of notification before the late fee is added.
If you believe you have received a parking citation that is unjust, appeals must be filed online. You may request a personal appeal or file a written appeal. If you request a personal appeal, you will be given a date, time and location once the appeal is completed. The decisions of the Citation Appeals Committee will be emailed to you. Should you be required to pay the appealed citation, you will be given a new due date by which to pay. Click here for more information on appealing citation



