By: Dan Wolff
ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF was firing on all cylinders Thursday night, beating FIU 61 to 17. The game started with a six play, 76-yard scoring drive that would set the tone for the day and by halftime, UCF was running away with a 40-10 lead.
“You never know exactly what you’re going to get in the first game.  I think our guys were ready to play,” Coach Frost said about their hot start.
McKenzie Milton tossed a career high four touchdowns and 360 yards while giving away one interception. Three of his passes went for more than 50 yards in a display of arm strength.  The line gave Milton plenty of time, which led to receivers getting lost behind the secondary.  Two of those touchdowns went to standout wide receiver Tre’Quan Smith. Dredrick Snelson also had a big day catching four balls for 98 yards.

“McKenzie had a really good day, but a lot of guys on the team had a good day.  I give a lot of credit to the O-line for protecting him,” said Frost.
UCF’s youth played fantastically. Gabe Davis started the game along side Tre’Quan Smith and finished with four catches for 53 yards and a touchdown.  Freshman QB Noah Vedral finished the game for the Knights, proving out to be Coach Frost’s early choice as the second-string quarterback.  Vedral finished 10-12 with 79 yards.
“Gabe is a grown man, he is going to do well no matter what he is doing,” said Frost on Gabe Davis’ debut as a Knight and the maturity he has displayed.
The defense played great, causing multiple turnovers that all originated from the secondary.  FIU never got much going on the offense side of the ball and didn’t score their last touchdown until the last five minute of game time.
Coach Frost also credited UCF’s students, who occupied both ends of the stadium in a new seating arrangement at Spectrum Stadium, for providing an edge to his guys on the field.
“I thought the students showed up in force,” Frost said, just a day removed from his publicity tour along Greek Row to recruit attendees.
The announced attendance for tonight’s game was 38,063 – 18,756 of which were students, a new UCF record.
UCF was stronger, faster and well prepared in their opener against the Panthers, but will have a ton of growing to do for next week’s conference matchup against Memphis.
Stick with UCFKnightNews for up-and-close coverage of UCF Football.
ORLANDO, Fla — In his first season at UCF, Scott Frost promised to bring fast, exciting football to Orlando. He promised that he would find kids to fit his system, that he would mold this team into his image. In his second season, Frost made a statement in week one with a 61-17 victory over Butch Davis’ Panthers.
“It was a good start. I’ve seen our team improve in camp and in the offseason. It carried over to the field, which is great to see, you never know exactly what you are going to get in the first game. I think our guys were ready to play,” said Coach Frost of the effort.

Here’s a look at some of the storylines coming out of UCF’s opening victory.
McKenzie Milton 2.0
Milton was rushed into action his freshman season and looked underdeveloped at times. He was unstoppable in his sophomore debut, topping career highs with 360 passing yards and 4 touchdowns through the air – to three different receivers. Tre’Quan Smith came down with a pair of scores, Freshman Gabe Davis hauled in a touchdown and 53 yards, and Jordan Akins snatched his own score out of the air early in the first quarter.
“What you saw on the field today is what we have been seeing at practice for almost two years, and it carried over onto the field tonight,” praised Frost after the game.
Gabe Davis, Tre’Quan Smith and Dredrick Snelson are Deadly
If you follow UCF football, you know that Tre’Quan Smith is the kind of talent that can elevate an entire program. Those who saw him work out this offseason raved about his raw talent at the position, and it seems like he now has a couple of deadly counterparts.
Freshman Gabe Davis is a monster of a target at six-foot-three-inches, one of the hardest workers from fall camp. He was open often and early, ending the day with just 53 yards, but clearly displaying what his capabilities are.  When Snelson got open he did so quietly – but in a major fashion. He led the team with 98 receiving yards on just four receptions.
Expect to see this trio constantly press defensive boundaries, causing mismatches everywhere on the field with tight ends and running backs alike.
No Fly Zone
When you graduate an entire position group, logic doesn’t tell you that the group will improve. It just doesn’t compute. UCF, however, has found a way around common logic in the development of their secondary. Safeties Kyle Gibson, Tre Neal and Antwan Collier made play after play while terrorizing FIU Quarterback Alex McGough and his receivers alike. Tre Neal had a momentum shifting interception, Collier forced a fumble and Gibson recovered a fumble of his own.
“I thought the defense played well. Really, if we hadn’t turned it over in the first half, then I think we would have gone into halftime sitting in a really good place defensively. We gave up one long play in the first half. We have to fix those things, but I think we played really hard on defense, stopped the majority of what they presented to us,” said Frost about the defense as a whole.
As a unit they held FIU to just 201 yards through the air – and 75 yards of that damage came off of a single play in the first quarter. The inexperienced group has serious talent to work with.
Stick with UCFKnightNews for up-and-close coverage of UCF Football.
By: Dan Wolff
ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF came out firing on all cylinders, having the game in hand by the half.  McKenzie Milton tossed a career high four touchdowns within the first 35 minutes of the game.  Freshman QB Noah Vedral came in on the very next possession, proving to be Coach Frost’s early choice as the second-string quarterback.
The defense played great, causing multiple turnovers.  FIU never got much going on the offense side of the ball.
Even the Special teams came ready to play, they pinned FIU on their own one-yard line, leading to a safety.
Stay tuned with Knight News for a full game recap and post-game video.



ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF has been electric through one half of football, flying out to a 40-10 start in their season opener.
McKenzie Milton has had all day to throw, tying a career high with three touchdowns in the first half alone. He has spread the ball around with ease – connecting with Freshman Gabe Davis, Tight End Jordan Akins and Tre’Quan Smith each for a score.
Jawon Hamilton and Taj McGowan have both carried the rock into the end zone as well, having a field day with the FIU defense. A 44 yard Matthew Wright field goal and safety from Trysten Hill and Pat Jasinski round off the scoring plays from this half.
Expect one of the freshmen quarterbacks to take over in the second half if this trend continues.



