One year ago today, a city came together amidst the aftermath of the largest mass shooting in the history of the United States. None believed Orlando would become the site of terrorism against the gay community. What followed the attack on Pulse nightclub Orlando were outpourings of support from every corner of the globe – the humanity of a city and the world brought out in full color.
Over 50,000+ Orlando residents walked along a rainbow-lit Lake Eola Park. Candles were being carried, lanterns released, crowds cheered as Orlando Police drove down Rosalind Avenue with their lights on, city officials hugged citizens and the barrier of anonymity was being broken between people of all kinds. Students, faculty, and administration filled all four floors of the Student Union to come together and mourn the loss of 49 souls, including 2 UCF Knights. Tens of thousands organized at the Citrus Bowl during an Orlando City Soccer match and within days displayed to the world how a city can come together – #WeAreOrlandoUnited.
Through candid posts and videos, the students at Knight News photographed and recorded history for millions of people to view. Though there are many stories to the events during and after Pulse, here are a few, on the ground, in breaking news, from the eyes of UCF students:



















University of Central Florida football player Donald De La Haye was given an ultimatum by the NCAA: either continue to play college football or continue his YouTube channel, according to the De La Haye.
De La Haye goes by the username “Deestroying” on YouTube and has reached over 52,000 subscribers. His channel is filled with comedic videos about his life as a kicker for UCF Knights football team.
It was all fun and games for De La Haye until the NCAA began saying that he may have broken several NCAA rules for college players.

De La Haye recently uploaded video titled “QUIT YOUTUBE OR COLLEGE SPORTS?!,” in the video, De La Haye says, “Some people upstairs aren’t happy with my videos and they feel like I’m violating NCAA rules.”
De La Haye goes on to explain that the NCAA says that he shouldn’t post any videos revealing that he is a student athlete.
In the video, De La Haye claims the NCAA believes that he is “using his likeness and image to make money.”
De La Haye does not feel that creating these videos violates any rules.
If fact, De La Haye claims that making money off these videos helps him get experience in marketing, which is his major at UCF.
“Most of us will go pro in something other than sports,” De La Haye said his video.
De La Haye goes on to explain how he is “struggling at home; there’s barely any food and tons of bills piling up…and I’m not allowed to help. I thought I had found a way.”
UCF Athletics released an official statement Monday when addressed about the situation.
“UCF Athletics is committed to rules compliance. Our compliance staff strives to make sure our student-athletes are informed about all pertinent NCAA bylaws. Student-athletes attend regular educational meetings regarding NCAA eligibility. One of our goals is to help our student-athletes learn about the bylaws that govern intercollegiate athletics, in an effort to help them maintain their eligibility.”
Knight News has contacted the NCAA, who informed us that De La Haye is in communication with university compliance, but that the NCAA has not yet received a waiver request or communication from UCF directly regarding the matter.
De La Haye will continue to discuss the situation with university compliance before making a decision, although he mentions how he wants to potentially fight back.
“I want to petition,” De La Haye to Knight News, adding, “I don’t want this to affect athletes down the line and have to go through what I’m going through. I’m an entrepreneur, let me be one.”
When asked if any of his teammates would comment, De La Haye said “I’m not sure. I don’t want to get any of my teammates involved. This is my battle.”
Knight News will continue to follow this story.



ORLANDO, Fla. – The College Sports Information Directors of America held their annual induction to the Academic All-America Hall of Fame on Sunday evening, welcoming into the hallowed ranks a local leader in Valencia College’s Dr. Stacey Johnson.
Dr. Johnson currently serves as the President of Valencia College’s East and Winter Park Campuses, but has woven a long and storied career through the fabric of sports at the highest level. Her rise was sparked at San Jose State University, where education was born through an opportunity in sports – an athletic scholarship for fencing.
“Of course, that was the time that Title IX was just coming into existence and so I was one of the first of 200 women in the state of California to get an athletics scholarship,” said Dr. Johnson. “I could not have gone to school had I not had that opportunity, so it paved the way for me as it has for hundreds and thousands of women since that time.”
During her tenure at San Jose State she cultivated an elite status in the world of fencing, leading a 1980 US Olympic team that did not get to compete in coordination with the U.S. boycott of the games.
“I became involved with Anita DeFrantz, who is the head of the athletes, and who is a very well-known leader of boycott and I women in sports with the international Olympic committee – she’s a rower. We protested against that boycott and I spoke across the country on that. I became an active athlete. I really became an advocate for athletes,” explained the inductee.
The process sparked a movement, and a powerful career was born from the protests and fight for that Olympic bid. She became an icon within the scope of international fencing, serving first as a representative for the sport to the United States Olympic Committee, and then eventually as the first woman to hold a four year term as President of the U.S. Fencing Association.
As president, Dr. Johnson fought hard to open up each school of fencing available to women – breaking down the barrier for women to compete with not only the foil, but the Epee and Saber as well.
Dr. Johnson’s induction marks the first time that every inductee from a single year was female. Her counter parts on stage were Rachel Price Bell of the University of North Alabama, Heather O’Reilly of the University of North Carolina and Stephanie White of Purdue University.
ESPN’s Rece Davis hosted the ceremonies, presided over by CoSIDA President and UCF Associate Athletics Director Andy Seely.
“In our 2017 Academic All-America Hall of Fame class, we recognize four women who made major contributions to their respective collegiate sports and who continue to make significant impact in their professional careers,” said Seely. “As undergraduates, they excelled at the highest levels to their respective sports while also being committed to obtaining extraordinary academic success.”



