University of Central Florida students have mixed reactions towards the closure of the “Free Assembly Area” by the Student Union.This free speech zone, located on the grass, just east of the Chic-Fil-A deck, closed at the start of the Fall semester. 
Students, like Alexander Zimmerman, walking through the bustling heart of campus, were taken back upon discovering wooden fencing surrounding the prime location that used to be used for expressing free speech at UCF.
“It was the most recognizable, visible spot for free speech on campus”,Zimmerman, a junior studying history, said. “It sounds more like an excuse to me cause I mean its still there. Now they’ve just made any possible pedestrian path even smaller by blocking it off with these poles.”
At the beginning of the fall semester, the area was “rezoned due to the construction and pedestrian traffic, an additional area was added to the north side of the Student Union,”Office of Student Involvement Director Shane Juntunen said, in an email from Assistant Vice President for Strategic Initiatives and Communications Dr. Briant Coleman’s account.
The additional Free Assembly Area, one of now seven across campus, is located between the exits of the north and east Student Union boardwalks, with a retention pond laying behind it.
Some students like Zimmerman do not believe this new zone is as good as the previous zone outside the union.
“Poor visibility, no one can see you there. You can’t get your message out”, Zimmerman said, in response to the new zone’s location.
Non-university organizations and persons are restricted to these seven Free Assembly zones across campus.
However not all students feel that this free speech zone closure is a bad thing.
Gabrielle Ferguson welcomed change to the atmosphere around the Student Union.
“I feel like before, the only people who would hang around there were those people that would like yell at people and they would just be kind of obnoxious,” Ferguson said.”There’s a lot of traffic over here so its just kind of a bunch of negativity in the area and I didn’t really like that.”
Camelia Del Valle, a junior studying health sciences, echoed this belief: “The closing of the free speech zone was good for when we had non-student people talking there. I think it was pretty uncomfortable sometimes,” she said. “I think it is better to keep the area student friendly.”
Juntunen stressed that “students and RSO are not restricted to Free Assembly locations and have more options available to them”.
UCF regulations, however, have limited the areas in which students can express their first amendment right.
According to UCF regulations, university organizations and university-related organizations may not “participate in demonstrations and other exercises of free speech and assembly” in several areas, including,”in grounds immediately adjacent to University residential facilities”,”grounds associated with the Burnett House”,and athletic facilities.
Regardless of the atmosphere or regulations, some students, like Brad Aldridge, feel this closure reflects growing tensions across college campuses.
“Tensions are already high on campus as it is, this just adds fuel to the fire.” Aldridge, a senior studying political science said.”I’m upset about the free speech zone being closed. I think it needs to be reopened so people can have their voices heard on campus.”



One of only 13 undefeated teams remaining in the FBS, UCF will enter week seven ranked No. 21vby the USA Today Amway Coaches’ Poll.
The Knights climbed from unranked to the bottom of the elite tier last week at No. 25, and have made the jump four spots in the aftermath of a lightning-hastened, three-quarter, 51-23 thrashing on the Cincinnati Bearcats.
McKenzie Milton has led UCF’s offense to 47.5 points per game – tops in the country. The defense is ranked atop the American Athletic Conference in scoring after surrendering 23 to the Bearcats in the shortened game, sitting at 15.8 points per game.
The American Athletic Conference can now lay claim to three teams ranked in the Coaches’ Poll, with Navy jumping up to No. 24 join No. 21 UCF and No. 15 USF.



CINCINNATI, Ohio. –  The Knights were robbed of a chance to set historic highs in Cincinnati on Saturday when American Athletic Conference officials abruptly called the in-conference matchup after an hour and seven-minute rain delay. UCF was well on the way to shattering an entire page of offensive records – coming close to knocking off team record for total yards (657), passing touchdowns (7), receiving touchdowns (4), and points (63).
That doesn’t mean individual benchmarks weren’t shattered and reset.
McKenzie Milton, QB: Money Milton set the season’s tone in week one against FIU when he launched four touchdowns and 360 yards, both career highs at the time. He smashed those two marks on Saturday, ratcheting the numbers up to five touchdowns and 374 yards. 
Tre’Quan Smith, WR: Smith came into the game with ten receptions and four touchdowns, an incredible ratio. He only solidified his All-American potential at historic Nippert Stadium, recording the second-most yards he ever has in a single game with 165. His four total touchdowns were a career high. His three receiving touchdowns were also career highs, and his rushing touchdown was the first of his career.
Milton-to-Smith connection: When UCF scored their second touchdown of the game in a single-play drive, the 79-yard streak run by Tre’Quan set the mark for the longest passing and receiving touchdowns for either player’s career.
Michael Colubiale, TE: Colubiale has been buried on the depth chart for years. The tight end is finally getting to see the field as a senior, catching at least one pass in every game this season as the No. 3 TE on the depth chart. He reeled in his first career touchdown halfway through the second quarter.
Matthew Wright, K: Matty Ice was one of the most consistent kickers in all of college football in 2015 and 2016, sending 30 of 39 kicks through the uprights. The 47 yarder he nailed Saturday was the longest field goal in 2017 for Wright, and the third longest of his career.
Seyvon Lowry, DL: Lowry is somewhat of a defensive vulture, capitalizing on low slung balls within his massive reach along the defensive line. He ripped a pass out of the air in 2016 against Cincinnati, and victimized the Bearcats once again on their own turf. Lowry now has two interceptions on the season, a career high for the 6-3 lineman out of Jacksonville. As a matter of fact, he has more interceptions than sacks in his two seasons as a rotational player for UCF.
Marlon Williams, WR: Williams is a freaky athletic specimen. He is a 6-foot, 205-pound freshman who looks every bit the part of a top-tier receiving threat who can hurt you in a multitude of ways. The true freshman was asked to carry the ball for the very first time as a Knight in Cincinnati, and he took advantage of the opportunity to house the Bearcats for 47 yards, the longest and only rush of his career.
Dredrick Snelson, WR: Snelson came into view towards the end of 2016, making the occasional reception and notching two scores on the season. His longest haul of the year was a 61-yard catch, but the 54-yard touchdown he handled for the game’s first score was the longest touchdown reception of his career.
UCF Football: Since joining the real world of college football in 1988, UCF has never started more than 3-0; most notably in the Fiesta Bowl Season when the Knights lost to South Carolina at home in week four. Their three-quarter win over Cincinnati signals the first time that UCF has begun 4-0, ever.
Scott Frost: Coach Frost began this particular benchmark last week against Memphis, earning his first ever three-game winning streak as a head coach. Saturday’s win at Nippert Stadium marks the longest winning streak of the young head coach’s career.



CINCINNATI, Ohio – Second-year quarterback McKenzie Milton became the full embodiment of what Head Coach Scott Frost saw in his true-freshman starter last season, torching the Cincinnati Bearcats for a career-high five touchdowns and 374 yards in the construction of a 51-23 win at Nippert Stadium.
The game ended with 0:04 left on the clock in the third quarter, shortened by American Athletic Conference officials who called the game – citing player safety as a primary concern. Lightning delayed the game for an hour and seven minutes before the final was official.
“I think there was a lot of discussion and at that point in the game they were trying to do what was best for players and player safety,” said Coach Frost. “I think the conference office is the one that, for player safety, decided to call it so it’s a final where it stood, and there is some good and bad to that. We would have liked to see some of our younger players get some reps, but getting out of here without anybody getting hurt is a good thing.”
Cincinnati had no answer for the Knights’ aerial assault, apparent from the first drive of the game. UCF took four plays to find the end zone on a 54-yard touchdown to Dredrick Snelson, notching six points and removing just 1:21 off the clock.
From that point forward, the floodgates were open. The Knights would score on eight-of-eight drives through four quarters, striking explosively and often. Everyone got a piece of the action tonight.
McKenzie Milton hit eight different receivers (three of them for touchdowns), six different players carried the rock and two of those scored. He started the game 5-5 for 172 yards and two touchdowns before tossing his first incompletion.
“I tell you what, that kid is playing lights out, and he deserves some credit for a lot of what is going on.  We’re a lot better all around him too,” said Frost. “He’s got a lot of good weapons some new ones coming up every week, and his offensive line – one sack through four games is pretty special. A lot of guys are playing well, but McKenzie is playing some darn good football right now.”
Tre’Quan Smith pulled down three touchdown receptions and rushed for one more, totaling four on the day to pair with his 165 yards. The Cincinnati defense was out-classed in terms of speed and skill, swimming in the wake of Smith and his receiving corps all game.
“Coach Frost has done an awesome job recruiting playmakers here and our O-Line does an awesome job of getting me time to get through my progressions,” explained McKenzie Milton in the post-game chaos. “Those guys just make plays after plays with the ball in their hands.”
UCF receivers averaged 23.4 yards per reception and the backs gashed the Bearcats for 141 yards – good for 515 yards, the third time UCF has eclipsed the 500 yard benchmark this season.
“I’ve been around football for a while, and I don’t remember a cleaner game on offense. They executed so well, we had such a good week of preparation and I knew they were ready to play, but the performance that they put out tonight on offense was special, and it’s a great thing to build on.”
Normally the UCF defense sets the tone game in and game out, but the heavy-handed-hitters took a backseat to their UCFast counterparts, letting Cincinnati score more points than any team has on them all season.
“I just don’t think we played great on defense, and I thought they had a really good plan, and I thought they played well on offense, I give them a lot of credit,” said Frost.
Cincinnati quarterback Hayden Moore was the silver-lining in the Bearcats’ cloud of despair, sneaking three touchdowns past the Knights; two on the ground and one through the air. That being said, he also threw an interception to defensive lineman Seyvon Lowry – who now has back-to-back games with a pick.
UCF outperformed Cincinnati in all three phases, but ran into a little bit of penalty trouble along the way. Concurrent with their previous three performances in 2017, the Knights elicited 44 penalty yards on eight calls against them.
So many penalties are worrisome, but a minor issue considering the manner that UCF has beat the brakes off teams through four weeks of football. In a game that last year’s team may have let get away from them, potentially losing focus on the heels of a landmark victory, Orlando’s Hometown Team outgained Cincinnati 515-391 while running 26 less plays.
It was another case of halftime certainty, another chance for UCF to keep chopping wood with the game in hand. The team didn’t get to finish out the beatdown, but will take the TKO. There was simply no stopping the Knights in their first 4-0 start since joining D1 college football.



The No. 25 UCF Knights have taken down the Bearcats on the road 51-23, earning their first 4-0 start since 1982.
Cincinnati had no answer for the Knights’ aerial assault, apparent from the first drive of the game. UCF took four plays to find the end zone on a 54-yard touchdown to Dredrick Snelson, notching six points and removing just 1:21 off the clock.
Normally the UCF defense sets the tone game in and game out, but the heavy-handed-hitters took a backseat to their UCFast counterparts, letting Cincinnati score more points than any team has on them all season.
Cincinnati quarterback Hayden Moore was the silver lining in the Bearcats’ cloud of despair, sneaking three touchdowns past the Knights; two on the ground and one through the air. That being said, he also threw an interception to defensive lineman Seyvon Lowry – who now has back-to-back games with an interception.



