The Student Government Association at the University of Central Florida has announced the service times for ‘Knight Flight,’ free shuttle transportation for students leaving for and arriving from (MCO) Orlando International Airport.
Knight Flight picks up students from UCF at the Lynx/UCF Transit station and, for returning flights, will wait at Ground Transportation at Orlando International Airport.
In order to use the free service to UCF students, those students must register for a pick-up or drop-off time here. Departing and returning bus registration will need to be chosen individually based on your flight information.

UCF SGA asks that students arrive at least ten minutes ahead of their departure time. Due to time-sensitivity regarding plane departures, the buses cannot wait for late comers.
Orlando International Aiport recommends arriving two hours early for domestic flights and 3 hours early for international flights. Passenger volume and TSA Security wait times may be increased during Spring Break so please plan accordingly.
View TSA Security wait times here.
These times have been reproduced below and are subject to finalization:
Departing
Returning
*note, the 12am bus on March 19th is the last bus to depart (actual time 12am March 20th)




In the 2017 football season, the University of Central Florida Athletics Department will bring the student section to both sides of Bright House Networks Stadium.
All part of the We Rise and Conquer Initiative, UCF Athletics will knock out two birds with one stone.
“The Knightmare is the heartbeat of the stadium,” the initiative states. “With the 12,000-strong Knightmare even closer to the field, the Knights will enjoy a greater home-field advantage as our opponents are forced to drive into a loud and rowdy student section going either direction.”
The turnout of the student section – and bringing students to games – has never been a problem at the start of the season. At the beginning of UCF’s infamous 0-12 season, the first game against FIU featured a packed student section. Even the Knights’ first home game in the following season against South Carolina State, soon a win in the pocket of Scott Frost, filled the student section from side to side. Attendance tapered as the season progressed in both years due to game outcomes, the 2016 season less so.
To combat sparse attendance in the Northeast corner of the stadium, among other areas, UCF Athletics has added the second student section for an immediate presence in the upcoming season.
A greater engagement of student support on both sides will increase fan experience overall and intimidation to the opposing team, UCF likely argues.
The ambitious We Rise and Conquer campaign will feature several new facilities and additions to the football program and gameday overall. UCF football head coach Scott Frost will no doubt enjoy the enhancements that come with the project – especially the potential for a much stronger student section.
Frost has said time and time again the need to bring students out to every game. Frost’s goal, his says, is to provide a product on the field that will fill Bright House Networks Stadium every game.
 

Along with value of fan experience will come an adjustment of ticket prices by seating to rearrange demand. Twenty-five sections will see an increase in prices and sixteen sections will see a respective decrease in an effort to even out attendance in certain sections. Most importantly, to draw attention to the upper sections directly across from Roth Tower.
A student section to the North, typically popular according to demand charts, will encourage fans to fill the less in-demand sections, all the while surrounding those fans with an energetic atmosphere.
Huge news has swept UCF Athletics over the past few months, including an alumnus’ $5 million donation to the department – the largest in UCF history, announcement of the We Rise and Conquer Initiative‘s first-class facilities; UCF Basketball’s win over Memphis, No. 15 Cincinnati, all-time record breaking performers, and turn on a dime from the previous season; UCF Baseball’s 8-1 record and 11-2 dominance over No. 2 University of Florida, and more.
With the latest announcements from Director of Athletics Danny White, students, alumni, and fans can expect much more to come.
Expansions, renovation, and future planning to the Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village on the face of campus begin immediately at the conclusion of the baseball season with the construction of John Euliano Baseball Park, according to White.
So, there’s no telling of the potential, yet, a second student section will bring for certain when the Knights open the 2017 season with FIU at home.
Given turnout in previous years, UCF Athletics will have their goals in sight.




The same student who won UCF Homecoming Queen received the Order of the Pegasus – the University of Central Florida’s highest honor given to a student.
When Knight News interviewed Jerome and Homecoming King Kevin Louidor in October, Jerome opened on her dream of inspiring her peers. Taking notice of the elementary school-aged children as well as the faces of her peers – earning the vote during Homecoming Week – proved that the impact she looks for had been made.
“That’s exactly why I wanted to be Homecoming Queen,” Jerome said to Knight News following Louidor’s comment about inspiring others.
“After being crowned, so many little kids wanted to take pictures with us and were looking up to us. It’s important to have people that look like you to inspire you to reach that level and beyond. So that’s exactly what I wanted to do.”

“Becoming homecoming queen, to me, was completely for the culture. I wanted to be able to make everyone else feel like someone who looks like something other than your average person on an advertisement can achieve and excel,” said Jerome looking back to the Fall. Cultural awareness and inclusion is what I based my campaign on and I’m happy that it was able to prevail. It was even more special to be on the first all Black, Haitian-American court. God really aligned this one to make a difference.
The double-major in political science and regional/cultural studies served on the President’s Leadership Council with Dr. John C. Hitt – in his 25th year as the president of the university.
On the tail of the accomplishment, another honor would follow the work of the Homecoming Queen before her college career came to a close.
“Order of Pegasus is something that most students dream about. I’m happy that I was able to be authentically myself along the way. All of my involvement has been out of pure passion and I am pleased my heavily multicultural resume has been recognized by the university at this level,” said Jerome.
“I attribute everything I do, everything I am, and everything I hope to be to my faith in God and my family. My appreciation for those who have gone before me and my duty to myself as a first-generation scholar in this country encourages me to keep going.”
“I am so grateful to wake up every day to a life of opportunity and I would be remiss to not mention the fact many people like me are without these same opportunities.”



