 Kyle Swenson co-wrote this report.
As a police officer who served for 40 years, University of Central Florida Police Chief Richard Beary is no stranger to hurricanes. He even served as part of the public safety response when Hurricane Andrew hit Florida in 1992.
“The thing that happened with Andrew was that it was a small storm until it made landfall and that one just caught people by surprise because no one expected it,” he said. “On the law enforcement side, the public safety side, we learned a lot from that.”
Beary is applying those experiences ahead of Irma, which is expected to hit Central Florida on Sunday. Even though it is expected to hit as a Category 3 storm, he is not taking any chances. In preparation for the storm, he and his team have been working 15-hour days and they plan on working round the clock to keep students safe.
“I think Harvey has gotten people’s attention. People didn’t think it was that big a storm, but every storm has its own unique personality. You can’t make assumptions. You have to be prepared for the worst,” he said.
Knight News sat down with Beary to discuss UCF’s evacuation plans for on-campus residents, what students riding out the storm on campus should expect, and whether students living off-campus can use the parking garages.
Q. When does UCF PD need students to arrive at the on-campus ride-out locations?
A. Ride-out locations begin checking people in on Saturday at 2 p.m. until 6 p.m. This is because tropical storm winds will be coming in by Saturday evening and by then we want everyone in. Get here. You might have to miss the party, but those are adult decisions.
Q: Can people who stay in Lake Claire and Towers ride out the storm in their dorms, or do they have to evacuate to the ride-out locations?
A: Students cannot stay in Lake Claire. It is a very old structure and we don’t feel comfortable with them being in there. The Towers on the other hand is a newer structure that was built to newer hurricane standards. The only thing that may happen depending on the intensity of the storm is we may need to relocate them from the top floors, but in general they’ll be able to stay.
Q: What about students in Neptune?
A: They’re not on our approved ride-out locations.
Q: What will conditions be like for students in the ride-out location?
A: The power will more than likely go out and there are no windows. It’s going to get hot, there are no showers and it’s going to be a long weekend. That’s the cold, hard reality of it.
Q: How long do you think we’ll be losing power?
A: There’s two things that will affect that. The wind speed that hits us and how much water we get. Those are what are going to drive the recovery effort. I can answer to our system on campus. The issue isn’t our system; it’s the feeders that come into us. Our system can be great, but if they can’t get the power to us, then we’re not going anywhere. Some buildings have generators, but the vast majority do not. And the buildings that have generators, like the ride-out locations, are really used to run emergency equipment and keep the lift stations going so we can use the bathrooms. They’re not going to run air-conditioning. It’s not going to be for comfort-control systems.
Q: Students are being encouraged to bring their own supplies, but is UCF going to provide provisions as well?
A: We will have stuff to supplement. People will have to bring their own things, especially if they’re on a special diet. That’s as good as it’s going to get. We have no food services; a lot of the people who run those are students. And students are not alone in this. We were also told the same thing. I brought five days worth of food to my office. Most of our students are adults and again have to make adult decisions.
Q: Can students park on campus?
A: The protocol will be that if you’re an on-campus resident you can park on campus. If you are in affiliated housing and will be riding out on campus, we will be providing a parking pass and they can park here too. Everybody else, we don’t want their vehicles here because it could interfere with our recovery efforts.
Q: Do those rules apply for Garage F as well?
A: Yes. Again, we are already setting up equipment for Duke Energy, and those take up a lot of space and we just can’t have cars in those parking lots. That’s from Governor Scott.
Q: Will school be open again on Tuesday?
A: If it is what they say it will be, probably not. But we saw what Hurricane Matthew did – at the last minute it veered away from Central Florida, which was a good thing for us since we were able to open right back up. I’m not so confident this time.
Q: What is the best way for students to contact their family during the storm?
A: Service may go out, but text messages will work. After the storm, make sure everyone knows where you’re at, but don’t tie up the phone line. If you call home, be sure to make it a short call or text message because a lot of people are trying to use the network. UCF will communicate with students in different ways to make sure you know what the updates are.
Q: How is UCF planning to handle students who left town for the storm when they re-open?
A: The university is trying to have a contingency plan. Number one is life safety. After that, we’ll worry about the academic schedule. But the university is sensitive to that and a lot of factors go into those decisions.
For more information regarding UCF’s hurricane preparation can be found here.



This is a developing story. If you are an RA and being told to stay, you can e-mail Knight News at news@knightnews.com. You can remain anonymous.
Resident assistants at the University of Central Florida are being told to stay on campus or face termination ahead of Hurricane Irma, multiple RAs have told Knight News.
UCF canceled all campus operations Wednesday afternoon after Irma, a Category 5 hurricane, was projected to hit Central Florida. The university has insisted that any RAs who feel they are unable to stay during the storm will be accommodated, but the opposite seems to be the case.
Knight News was able to verify the identities of three RAs who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation. A fourth source, who provided detailed information, kept their identity anonymous.
In their statements, the sources all said that RAs are not allowed to leave campus due to a stipulation in their contract which says they are “essential personnel,” meaning they are obligated to stay during emergencies such as hurricanes.
However, UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin told Knight News in an e-mail that they are not essential personnel but that “staffing emergencies such as Hurricane Irma is part of the RA position description.”
“That said, if anyone has concerns about being on campus during the duration of the storm, Housing is flexible and not requiring staff members to stay,” she said. “Any concerns should be brought to the appropriate supervisor.”
While they said that some staffers are allowed to ride out the storm elsewhere, housing communities like Towers at Knights Plaza have all hands on deck.
“Nobody has left. We’ve all been assigned duty for the course of the hurricane and have been told that we must stay,” said one staff member whose identity Knight News verified.
Sources say RAs were told in person by supervisors that they are not allowed to leave. While some plan to do so anyway, others fear losing their jobs and, as a result, their housing. One RA even claimed to have worked so many hours in the last week, that they did not have time to buy supplies.
“No RA wants to stay, we just want to keep our jobs since if we lose them many of us can’t afford housing on our own, including myself, on top of grad school and letters of recommendations,” said another staff member. “We are being told not to discuss these matters outside of meetings.”
Some staffers have reportedly been allowed to leave. One source claimed that two graduate coordinators at Lake Claire Apartments were given permission to find shelter off-campus. But in some communities like Neptune, RAs who initially were granted the weekend off had those plans canceled as Irma approaches.
According to the anonymous source, this is not the first time UCF threatened to fire RAs who decide to leave during a hurricane. All RAs stayed during Hurricane Matthew since “they were under the impression that they would be fired which means they would lose their housing as well, in the middle of a semester.”
“They are not getting compensated more additionally for staying,” the source said. “They are risking [their] lives, with the same pay since they get a stipend.”
Knight News reached out to multiple housing communities to confirm the allegations, but their offices declined to comment and referred Knight News to the UCF News & Information office.
While UCF has encouraged students to leave for off-campus shelter, those who stay behind may be evacuated to classroom buildings designated as “ride-out locations.” The storm continues to be monitored and is expected to hit Central Florida by Sunday morning.



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF has canceled Friday night’s football game against Memphis at the last minute, fearing the worst from Hurricane Irma’s impending landfall. Originally scheduled for Saturday night and then rescheduled for early Friday evening, the university was forced to take further action after Governor Scott declared all public schools, state universities and colleges close across Florida on Thursday evening. 
Eli Savoie of Real Sports Talk-Sports 56/87.7FM in Memphis was first with the news.
The Memphis Tigers game at UCF has now been canceled. Tigers will fly back home tonight
— Eli Savoie (@Eli560) September 8, 2017

According to reports, Memphis was unaware of the game’s cancellation until touching down in Orlando, prompting an immediate turnaround. 
Memphis media all coming out saying this #UCF game is OFF…didn't stick around too long after landing…
— Chris Torello (@TorelloSports) September 8, 2017

UCF and Memphis have not yet released an official statement regarding the decision. 



