ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF held on to win this year’s battle in the War on I4, surviving late-game dramatics from USF to escape with a 49-42 victory over the USF Bulls. It is the first undefeated regular season in school history.
The Knights stole back a 42-34 lead over USF with just 2:21 to play in the game, putting the assumed cap on a game that wreaked havoc on the blood pressure of fans everywhere. McKenzie Milton hit Otis Anderson for a 23-yard touchdown down the sideline, and Orlando’s Hometown Team just needed one more stop to put the game away.

Enter Kryptonite, stage left.
Quinton Flowers was superhuman in his effort tonight, single-handedly accounting for over 600 yards of offense on the strength of 503 passing yards and another 102 from his fleet feet. He would score four times through the air and once more as a ball-carrier, but it was the last score that hurt the most.
Flowers hit D’Earnest Johnson for an 83-yard bomb on the Bulls’ first possession following the assumed put-away score. It happened faster than anyone could have imagined, from a raging crowd of over 47,000 to silent in a moment.
Mike Hughes, the secondary’s savior from Garden City, closed this one back up. Hughes took the ensuing kick return to the house after shifting the momentum once with an interception, giving UCF a 49-42 lead back with just 1:28 to play in the game.
“I was on the headset kind of in disbelief that we just gave up that touchdown,” said Frost. “We had some busts in coverage today and had a huge mistake on that long touchdown at the end. I said on the headset that I hope we can get a decent return here.”
Hughes was beyond decent, once again.
“He’s been a difference maker on our football team all year, he’s been a good teammate, and we’re happy that he’s here.”
The back and forth last few minutes perfectly encapsulated a rivalry game that delivered on all fronts. UCF jumped out to an early 21-7 lead, but would not score again until late in the third quarter. Quinton Flowers single-handedly willed the Bulls to stay in the game with over 600 yards of offense, just 48 short of the team’s production total.
Milton answered with 29 completions for 373 yards and four touchdowns of his own through the air, grinding out 56 yards and another score on the ground. To Frost, it was a cherry on top of the incredible season his hand-picked playmaker has had.
“McKenzie Milton is one of the best football players in the country. He makes plays he’s supposed to make, he makes plays he’s not supposed to make. I about wrung his neck when he pitched it over top of somebody on that last drive, but how do you stop the kid form making those plays? He’s lights-out,” said Frost.
“He’s not getting enough credit for what he does out on the football field, my opinion he should be in the Heisman race. If you look at his numbers and what he’s done, I’m not usually one to call attention to an individual player because it’s about the team and winning. McKenzie Milton is one of the best quarterbacks in the country, bar none.”
Milton stands alone with the second-most touchdowns thrown in a single season after the four scores, just one behind Ryan Schneider’s record with 30 on the season.
He will get a chance to take the lead for his own next week, in the American Athletic Conference Championship – held at the Bounce House. Just another game, right?



The University of Central Florida has become the AAC East Division Champions after defeating USF 49-42 at home.
UCF ran up 21 points in the first quarter alone while the Bulls’ Quinton Flowers finished one successful drive for 7 points. The Knights were overcome in the second and third quarters in what turned into a nail-biter with 28-36 against UCF.
The now 11-0 Knights quickly made a screen pass to Ottis Anderson for a touchdown with minutes left and took the upper hand, igniting the stadium.
The Bulls soon passed for an 82-yard touchdown and a successful two-point conversion to tie the game 42-42 and quiet the crowd.
Then, in the fourth quarter, Mike Hughes escaped every Bull as he ran back a massive 95-yard kickoff for a touchdown. All 47,000 fans took to their feet and the Cardiac Knights made Spectrum Stadium like the Bounce House once again. Three touchdowns in 53 seconds.
Quinton Flowers led the Knights defense to midfield and the UCF defense forced a fumble, sealing the game.
Stay tuned for a full game recap and post-game video.
Game story:
Undefeated UCF Survives 605 Yard Performance from Quinton Flowers to Win Battle in War on I4, 49-42




Orlando, Fla.- UCF won their opening game in the AdvoCare invitational over a tough Nebraska team.  The final score was 68 to 59.  They will play in the Semi-final matchup today, tipoff is at 5, at the HP Field House.  They will take on West Virginia, who is currently ranked 23rd in the nation.
“I thought we played terrific defense most of the night, and that gave us a chance to win the game,” Coach Dawkins said.
Ceasar DeJesus played exceptional in last night’s win. Getting to the basket and finishing in crafty ways.  He is 6’2 so he needs to use unorthodox release points to get the ball past taller defenders, luckily Ceasar is a wizard with the ball.  Last night he finished with a team high 15 points on 60% shooting.
“I just saw gaps and I had to attack them, especially with Tacko out there it makes it a lot easier,” DeJesus said about his success getting to the basket.
AJ Davis once again had a great game.  Finishing with 8 points, 7 assists, and 10 rebounds.  This guy is really doing it all out there for UCF.
“I was really proud of AJ, a lot is on his shoulders,” Dawkins said.  “He plays the point-forward for us, he plays multiple positions, he pretty much does whatever I need him to do.”
Tacko Fall played a solid game.  Contesting Nebraska’s shots in the paint, he was a big reason for their abysmal 34% shooting mark from the floor.  He took a rough fall early in the first half, that really took the life out of the stadium.  Tacko got up walked it off and returned to the game.
“We built our defense around Tacko, having a chance to coach him we wanted to do something that would feature him really well,” Dawkins described Tacko’s defensive prowess. “That is protect the rim, he has been amazing,”
Today’s game will be a good measuring stick for UCF.  They haven’t played anyone with the talent level of West Virginia.  West Virginia forces a lot of turnovers, and UCF has been turnover prone without star point guard B.J. Taylor.  UCF will need to key on senior point guard Jevon Carter.  He is Scoring 16 points a game on 54% shooting, and dishing out 6 assists a game.  Carter also does it on the defensive end, averaging 4 steals per game.
When the big football game is over, flip the channel over to ESPN 2.  This will be a fun game to watch.



