Orange County Mayor Theresa Jacobs announced a mandatory curfew to take effect Sunday at 7 p.m. through Monday 6 p.m. while Hurricane Irma passes by Central Florida.
Breaking News: Orange County issues mandatory curfew from Sunday 7pm through Monday 6pm #IrmaUCF https://t.co/39B9sqjCgR
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 10, 2017

In Orange County and Seminole County, essential health care employees on their way to work will be allowed on the road. Mayor Jacobs said the county will consider a shorter curfew if conditions become less dangerous and stressed that citizens should not leave their home or shelter before conditions improve.
“If you’re out and about […] the Orange County Sheriff’s Office and law enforcement officers in Central Florida will stop you, detain you, and most likely arrest you,” said Orange County Sheriff Jerry Demings.
“The curfew, persons are prohibited from being on public streets, highways, parks or other public places,” Seminole County said.
“Restrictions will be enforced by all law enforcement agencies throughout the county.”
The University of Central Florida resides in Orange County although is bordered by Seminole County to the North. Students will fall under either curfew, currently spanning the same timeframe. 
In 2016, Orange County and Seminole County enacted 33-hour and 26-hour curfews, respectively, in as Hurricane Matthew passed by the East coast.



The University of Central Florida will remain closed through Wednesday, September 13 due to Hurricane Irma.
BREAKING: UCF Alert: UCF will remain closed through Wednesday, Sept. 13, due to Hurricane Irma #IrmaUCF
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 10, 2017

“UCF made this decision to allow additional time to assess the impact Irma has on students, faculty and staff — and their families. The university urges Knights everywhere to stay safe before, during and after the hurricane,” the university said.
“This closure includes the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, Health Sciences at Lake Nona campus and Center for Emerging Media in downtown Orlando, all of which follow main campus closure protocols. UCF regional locations will follow the decisions made by their respective host state college.”
Hurricane Irma made landfall in the Florida Keys at approximately 9:10 a.m.
Orange County, Seminole County enact mandatory 24-hr curfews




