Knight Flight for Summer break has been announced by the Student Government Association at the University of Central Florida.
The free shuttle transportation for students leaves for and arrives from (MCO) Orlando International Airport, picks up students from UCF at the Lynx/UCF Transit station and, for returning flights, will wait at Ground Transportation at Orlando International Airport.
In order to use the free service to UCF students, those students must register for a pick-up or drop-off time here. Departing and returning bus registration will need to be chosen individually based on your flight information.

FAQ’s from UCF Student Government Association:
Welcome to the Knight Flight home page on the UCF SGA Website. Knight Flight is a relatively new service available to all UCF Students. Knight Flight is a free holiday airport shuttle that travels from the UCF Main Campus to the Orlando International Airport (MCO). Knight Flight will operate prior to Thanksgiving, Winter Break, Spring Break and now Summer Break along with days to get students back to UCF from the airport.
Knight Flight picks students up from UCF at the LYNX/UCF Transit station (see map to the right for location).
For returning flights, Knight Flight buses will be waiting at Ground Transportation at the Orlando International Airport (MCO).
Please note: Knight Flight only travels to the Orlando International Airport. 
Please note: This free service does not run all year long but rather on a fixed schedule to be determined during each new school year.
Knight Flight currently operates during Thanksgiving, Winter, and Spring Breaks.  UCF to MCO buses leave earlier in the day to accommodate as many flight departure times as possible, and MCO to UCF buses leave later in the day to accommodate as many arrival times as possible.
Sign up for Summer Break Shuttles
You must sign up! Simply click one of the links below and enter your contact details.  You will need to print your confirmation page (or your confirmation email) and bring it with you.
Please keep in mind, as there are multiple times and dates available, you must sign up for departing and returning buses separately!  If you only need a ride one-way, that’s fine too; just sign up for the single bus you need.
Please arrive at least 10 minutes ahead of your scheduled departure time; all of the students on the Knight Flight buses have planes to catch, so unfortunately the buses cannot wait for late-comers.  If you miss your bus, you are responsible for your own transportation to or from the airport.
The Orlando International Airport recommends arriving 2 hours early for domestic flights and 3 hours early for international flights.  Please keep these recommendations in mind when signing up for a Knight Flight bus.  UCF and the Student Government Association will NOT be held resposible for missed flights, whether due to delays in transportation or to other factors.
Please contact the Facilities, Safety and Transportation Coordinator for any questions or concerns regarding Knight Flight.
Thank you!
Schedules & Registration
Departing



On Friday April 21st from 7pm-9pm, Phi Delta Theta will host a fundraiser for UCF student Radley Gillis called “Run for Rad”.
On April 4th, Radley got in a horrific motorcycle accident on the 408 leading to Research Park and he has had several major surgeries. A GoFundMe for Gillis has raised $93,000 dollars. Gillis had tens of thousands being raised in a matter of hours.
The 5k will take place on campus at Memory Mall. All proceeds will be given to the Gillis family to help Radley’s medical care.
Presale tickets are $10 and can be bought here or by emailing kbrjr4@gmail.com. The day of the event there will be a check in tent to give wristbands and bib numbers to those participating. Tickets will also be sold for $15 on the day of the event.



The Student Escort Patrol Service is looking for part-time student workers at the University of Central Florida, to be hired and trained by the UCF Police Department, within the next six weeks.
SEPS runs from 7 p.m. to 1 a.m. on campus daily for students who want a safe ride from one location on campus to another, whether that student does not want to walk alone, has had a night of drinking and wishes to make it across campus OK, and more. The service is free to students.
“The S.E.P.S. Wear yellow shirts with the insignia S.E.P.S. on it and carry radios that are in direct communication with the police dispatchers,” UCF Parking Services said.
“Besides providing safe escorts for people, the S.E.P.S. are also trained as Crime Watchers. For S.E.P.S. escorts call 823-2424. If the S.E.P.S. are off duty, please call 823-5555 and a police officer will be dispatched to assist you. Safe escort is offered on campus 24 hours a day.”
Want to drive this golf cart & help fellow #Knights stay safe? We’re hiring SEPS drivers! Email policecr@ucf.edu to apply. pic.twitter.com/3V4JYlL1Qh
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) April 18, 2017

The UCF Police Department saw their highest ridership in one day on the night of April 11 with 140 free rides given.
SEPS ridership doubled in 2015, serving nearly 14,500 students, faculty and staff members and campus visitors.
“Student employees of the police department will use special carts to transport riders or give them a walking escort-circumstances dictate cart or walking service. The service runs seven days a week when classes are in session. Service does not operate on State of Florida recognized holidays, between semesters or on football game days,” UCF Police said.
“SEPS drivers are vetted by UCFPD and operate out of the police department. Our priority is to keep everyone on campus safe, and SEPS provides a ‘buddy system’ to ensure that people on campus don’t have to walk alone at night.”
SEPS set a single day record last night with 140 rides!
SEPS is available 7pm-1am, 7 days a week when classes are in session & is ! pic.twitter.com/NombEiw9jy
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) April 12, 2017




