Not only did the University of Central Florida remain in the same spot in the College Football Playoff rankings, the Knights were jumped by an 8-3 Mississippi State team.
On Saturday, November 18, the Bulldogs trailed by 14 in the first quarter and by 7 in the third quarter before narrowly defeating an unranked 4-7 Arkansas State football team by one touchdown in the fourth. That same day, UCF defeated Temple University effortlessly in Philadelphia 45-19.
UCF Director of Athletics Danny White chimed in Tuesday night.
After seeing how the AAC was disrespected in this week’s #CFP rankings… pic.twitter.com/0iB9X1hIuw
— Danny White (@UCFDannyWhite) November 22, 2017

White has subtly made comments in support of the Knights as the season went on although has taken a more direct approach as of late – on broadcast and on social media – given the Knights’ season performance.
Frost has encouraged players and emphatically stated to media that distractions will be avoided. The rankings, according to Frost, are nothing but a distraction to what takes place on the field.
The question that remains is how much better will UCF have to play before breaking that glass ceiling – when will the Knights have a better year? A playoff position seems unrealistic for the Knights although a top-ten standing seems less so.
An AP Top-25 matchup on Friday may answer that question, whether its next week or never.



It’s the heat of The War on I-4’s unofficial “hate week,” and it’s safe to say USF Football head coach Charlie Strong did not imagine himself facing the University of Central Florida in the near future after his 2013 defeat at Louisville.
UCF fans laud the 2013 season as nothing short of marquee run for the Knights after finishing 12-1, 8-0 AAC with a Fiesta Bowl victory and No. 10 ranking to top it all off.
In the middle of that season, though, head coach George O’Leary orchestrated a fourth-quarter comeback against the then-No. 8 Louisville Cardinals with a 75-yard rush to the Cardinals’ end zone.
Louisville enjoyed a comfortable 28-7 lead going into the second half but the Knights stole the show with a commanding performance through the game’s end.
In the press conference following the game, Strong seethed from the outcome.
“It’s hard to move on,” Strong said. “Not to take anything away from Central Florida, I know they were a good football team, it’s one that we gave away when you look at it. Me, personally, I thought we were the better team and we let one get away from us.”
“We have to give Central Florida credit, but I still say the best football team lost that game,” Strong said in the same interview.
O’Leary responded with surprise but remained relatively neutral.
“Charlie did that?,” O’Leary said. “Really? They’re a very talented team. Obviously, when you say the best team didn’t win, you’ve got to look in the mirror as far as players and coaches. I’ll leave it like that. I think it was a great win. All I look at is wins and losses. I don’t get involved in, ‘He said, you said, we said.'”
“I think any time you lose a game I always look in the mirror and what I could have done more to help the win or change the game. I don’t get involved in, ‘We were better than them.’ We won that night. They have a really talented team. They really do. Move on. I don’t get concerned about people talking after a game.”
Now Strong returns at the University of South Florida, perhaps with a small chip on his shoulder after seeing the Knights rob his team of a dominant, undefeated season in Kentucky.
A sold-out rivalry game between USF at UCF – with ticket prices twice as high as FSU vs UF – awaits on Black Friday.
And Strong isn’t the only one going in with a chip on his shoulder – UCF Football head coach Scott Frost has been looking forward to this game for the past year.
Frost Has His Target Set for the Heart of the USF Football Team after 2016 Game

Original story:
UCF Beats No. 8 Louisville for Biggest Upset in School History




UPDATE 2:57 p.m.: The story has been updated to include the details in the student conduct incident report as well as screenshots obtained by Knight News.
The Alpha Xi Delta sorority had been quietly placed on interim suspension by the University of Central Florida since Nov. 16, a suspension notice showed.
According to the notice, which was obtained through a record request, the sorority has been charged with “possession and/or providing false information”, two counts of alcohol-related misconduct, and hazing. The charges stem from an incident that took place at Señor Frogs somewhere off campus.
The suspension was upheld following a hearing Tuesday morning.
Knight News also received an incident report which details the testimony of an member of the sorority whose name was redacted. According to the report, the unidentified Alpha Xi Delta member went to the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life on Nov. 6 with concerns about her chapter members.
On the day of the chapter’s “Big/Little Ceremony,” the date of which was not mentioned in the report, sorority members went to Señor Frogs instead of going to a restaurant, something the unidentified member said was not normal.
“While at dinner, one of the current members and big sisters, bought a pitcher of mimosas and proceeded to hold the pitcher to her little sister’s, a then non-initiated member, mouth and told her to ‘chug, chug, chug’ it,” the report says. “[The unidentified member] said other big sisters ordered drinks and shots for their little sisters and told them to drink it as well. She said the little sisters said things like they couldn’t wait to be hazed by their big sisters.”
The report also notes that the unidentified member noticed most of the little sisters were underage.
Alpha Xi Delta’s executive board was made aware of the behavior by the unidentified member and, according to the report, “they were upset she brought it up to them and now they were going to have to deal with it.” Instead, they “did not actually deal with it” and instead, allegedly, “a couple members of the executive board have targeted her.”
The member has since been put on probation but is “likely to drop her membership” with the sorority.
The fact that there was an incident at a Señor Frogs is corroborated by screenshots from what looks to be a Alpha Xi Delta-affiliated chat on the messaging app GroupMe. The names of the users have also been redacted, but they show one member, presumably the one left unidentified in the incident report, brought the incident to attention.
“So would I be the next [redacted] if I addressed the whole ‘not pouring alcohol down new members throats’ and hazing them, in the Facebook? Cause clearly that concept has gone out the window,” she wrote.
She continued: “I don’t want to just tattle on a couple girls & be a dick, so why doesn’t everyone just text [redacted] who they saw drinking with the new members too? Everyone that broke the rules to be help (sic) responsible.”
Another member insisted that she be texted the names of the people involved in the incident or she would otherwise “just waste time finding out myself.”
“Please don’t make me waste more of my time on stupid unnecessary bullshit,” she wrote.
Other members took issue with the incident being mentioned, with one noting that drinking as new members and in general is common and that “I don’t see why anyone needs to taddle (sic) or get anyone in trouble for something 90% of theta sigmas have done (sic).”
“If I didn’t see it, or hear about it, as far as I was concerned, it didn’t happen if that makes sense,” one member said. “As soon as I see it or it’s brought to my attention, we have a problem. I wanted to be able to pull the wool over my eyes on this one, but now I’m stuck.”
As part of the interim suspension, Alpha Xi Delta cannot participate in on- or off-campus events and previously scheduled events have been canceled. Scott Eberle issued a letter to the sorority that they will remain on interim suspension “until the University has completed the investigation process.”
Knight News was made aware of the suspension through rumors circulating social media.
This is a developing story. Check back periodically for more updates.



