The white nationalists never stood a chance in Gainesville today. It was estimated that protesters outnumbered the group by about 10 to 1, according to officers on the scene.
The crowd gathered outside the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Thursday, not to wait in line to get tickets to see prominent white nationalist Richard Spencer, but to protest him being there to spread a rhetoric that many have called racist and xenophobic.
“No Nazis, no KKK, no fascist USA!” they chanted over and over while holding signs that were covered with crossed out swastikas, messages of hope and humor poking fun at hate groups.
“I would have felt like a hypocrite if I didn’t come out to protest,” said Collin Stewart, a freshman at the University of Florida.
Stewart went on to explain that he had never been a part of a protest in his life, but when he heard that Spencer was speaking on his campus, he felt compelled to start.
“I wouldn’t say that it was my duty, but it was something that I felt was my moral responsibility to do”, Stewart said.
Many of the protestors had similar feelings.
“This is things you see in the news, not in your hometown,” said Gainesville resident Morgan Chardi. “The fact that it was local really motivated me to come out and make a stand.”
The protestors outside the Phillips Center slowly seemed to lose motivation to stay and started to trickle out of the designated protest area as the day went on. 
The exhausted crowd gained a burst of energy almost instantly when a man with a shaved head and wearing a shirt with several swastikas walked out of the building.
“Fuck you, you piece of shit scumbag,” one woman screamed.
The crowd quickly swarmed him like feeding piranhas to yell in his face and continued to do so as he walked off the premises. After being punched in the face by a protestor, police officers took action and directed protestors away from the man, according to a witness. Blood was coming from his lip and dripping down his face.
This man was the first of many who needed a police escort from the venue. Any time a suspected white nationalist would leave the building, protestors would swarm the attendee. This lead to attendees leaving with hoods up, covering their faces and at least one man asking to be taken into protective custody by the police.
“He asked if he could be arrested,” said Jacob Tylec, an attending protestor. “He took the coward’s way out. The rest are probably still cowering inside because they are afraid to face the people that they spit hate towards.”
Others who slipped away into the crowd were much more bold. One woman who was seen with a group of suspected white nationalist was able to separate herself from the group being swarmed, long enough to give a Nazi salute. This gesture quickly lead to the crowd gathering around her.
Despite the confrontational approach that many protestors took, the day remained almost completely non-violent.
When demonstrators got up close to those they suspected to be white nationals, there was almost always a chant of “no violence” coming from those around them. There was a particular woman dressed in black, with a hat pulled low who seemed to be the only one yelling “kick their ass” while the other protestors where yelling “no violence.” The woman in black was then seen leaving with the woman who gave the Nazi solute.
As the night went on there was never that moment of chaos that many had anticipated, but tensions were high all day. 
 



There is nothing that changes a person’s life more dramatically and emphatically than higher education, said President John C. Hitt during Tuesday’s annual State of the University address.
Hitt discussed UCF’s plans for the year, diversity and inclusion, UCF’s accomplishments and UCF’s faculty, alumni, and students.
“If we want our students to be able to reach their full potential, they have to work in an atmosphere that is diverse and inclusive,” said President Hitt on why diversity and inclusion is important at UCF. Moderator Grant Heston, vice president for UCF’s communications and marketing, said to President Hitt “when [Hitt] first started at UCF, in terms of UCF’s student population, the diversity was about 15 percent; we are now at 46 percent this fall. What did that make [President Hitt] feel like?”
“It makes me feel great, but also know we have a long way to go to achieve our goals so it’s a good progress along the way and I think we’re closer to where we need to be,” said Hitt. “But again we still have work to do.” In a new twist on things, President Hitt was asked questions by video from community members and UCF alumni.
Barbara Jenkins, class of ‘83, ‘86, ‘96 and Orange County School Superintendent, asked what’s next for the downtown campus.
“In early ‘18, we’ll start pouring concrete and moving dirt so there’s a lot of other work to be done and making sure we’re prepared programmatically for what we do when we get there,” said Hitt. “If you think about that downtown opportunity, it’s so phenomenal.”
“Scale times excellence equals impact,” is what George Kalogridis, class of ‘76 and president of Walt Disney World resorts, asked President Hitt on the meaning and origin of that formula.
“This phrase emerged from our strategic planning efforts led by our provost and executive Vice President Dale Whittaker and what it really says is that if you look at size and quality there’s a multiplicity relationship between them and that’s very important if it were just an additive relationship, you wouldn’t see the tremendous impact you could get with the application of scale and quality,” said Hitt. “What it’s really getting at is if you can combine good size with good quality, you get an enormous impact for the good and if you don’t understand scale is a multiplier of quality than you are missing the point. We so often encounter people that just because something is big, it can’t be good. To me it just recognizes the effect that scale really matters and size matters.”
Hitt spoke positively on UCF’s Athletic teams. He said Katie Abrahamson-Henderson has done a remarkable job coaching UCF’s women’s basketball team as well as mentioning the women’s soccer team, “last I saw they were ranked #8 in the country and had just beaten LSU.”
On UCF’s football team’s current winning streak, Hitt said it’s phenomenal. We’ve had our best start ever.
During the address, there was the musical stylings of Jeff Rupert’s, a trustee chair, a Pegasus professor and director of UCF’s Jazz studies program, students as a way to show some of UCF’s arts.
Jeff Strange, president leadership council vice chair and first-generation college student, asked Hitt what UCF is doing to ensure all students are successful during their time at UCF and afterward.
Hitt said he was a first-generation college student and it was his father’s dream for Hitt to go to college, but his father passed away when he was 15. Hitt credits having access to education to be where he is now and UCF can offer the same opportunities to first-generation students that he received.
“I would have never had the kind of opportunities that I have enjoyed as a faculty member, administrator, dean, vice president and president, the scope and scale of opportunity that one gets through accessing higher education,” said Hitt. “We have about 25 percent of our students who are the first in their families to go to college, that’s a good size number. We really have an opportunity through the work that we do with the first-generation students and members of other underrepresented groups, we’ve got a real opportunity to help them get to a point in life where they are going to have a much more fulfilling and stimulating life than otherwise.”



ORLANDO, Fla. – Option football is an ancient beast in the modern game, rarely seen amongst the vast hunting grounds of up-tempo spread offenses. Navy has ridden their standout system to five wins and video-game-like rushing numbers, sparking nostalgia in Coach Frost.
“I love option football,” Frost said. “I lived it. I feel like option quarterbacks now are kind of like giant pandas, they only exist in zoos and military academies now.”
“The reads and the plays, running with the ball and pitching last second – the timing of it, its just kind of different than anything else that most people ask their quarterback to do. You’ve got to have a tough kid who is smart under center and I think that navy has that. I can tell by his statistics that he is the one that makes it go,” Frost explained.
What does that mean for the UCF defense? The easy answer against an option-read offense is pure ‘assignment football’. It means not missing your man, it means that missing your man can lead to catastrophe.
“The thing that I don’t get it when people say – oh, this is a discipline game; this is an assignment game – it’s an assignment [game] every game,” explained Defensive Coordinator Erik Chinander. “I don’t just tell them to do whatever the hell they want on every other play.”
“I don’t understand how that’s different than regular football. It’s a different offense, absolutely, and there’s a few different wrinkles, a few different kinks for our guys, but it’s football,” he said.
Keep it simple, do your job. UCF has long leaned on the strength of their defense in the Scott Frost Era, and it will need to be their backbone against the Midshipmen. With only a handful of passing touchdowns on the year and weapons that won’t surprise anyone, Navy is 5-1 on the strength of military execution.
In reading their opponent the Knights have gotten back to taking extra study sessions. The extra work was left out of the routine against Cincinnati, and the team admitted that the Bearcats had hit them with a few plays, a few formations that they had not recognized.
That kind of momentary lapse in preparation won’t happen anymore.
“That’s one thing that we picked back up on last week,” said inside linebacker Chequan Burkett. “We know that for the rest of the season that extra meeting pays off. Going into this game, we’ll maybe have even more meetings to make sure we don’t have that drop off.”
Even with the threat of an aerial assault slightly neutralized, the fast-over-physical Knights’ defense won’t change their identity too much.
“I think you have to line up like you normally do,” said Chinander. “Our starters are our starters for a reason, we’re going to roll guys in like we normally do, everybody has a really good practice so far.”
The Midshipmen’s death-by-attrition battleplan doesn’t leave too many avenues for quick scoring drives in deficit games. A three-score margin is a death sentence with competent defensive plays.
Navy will be tough and physical. Their offensive line and gritty quarterback do not allow many negative plays, and positive yards on the first two downs equate to short, highly convertible third downs. They will grind the clock, they will make murder McKenzie for any UCFast three-and-outs.
“You see teams around the country have let downs once in a while,” said Frost. “You saw a few last week. Our guys came out ready to play on Saturday and I think that’s a good sign, we know the challenge we have ahead of us right now. This is one of the best teams in the league and we’re playing hem on the road. I’m not worried about that with this team, this week.”



