An ‘impaired’ man called the UCF Police non-emergency line Tuesday afternoon, prompting authorities to send out a UCF Alert and increased police presence on campus, UCF Police said at a press briefing.
Knight News and other media outlets met Deputy Chief Carl Metzger by the Reflecting Pond Tuesday evening for a briefing on the incident.

The man seemed to be impaired either by drugs or alcohol, Metzger said to media. The call lasted approximately two minutes and the details of the conversation were non-specific; the man claimed to have weapons and, at one point, stated he was on campus. No specific location, group, or motive had been mentioned.
UCF Police are confident the man can be identified, in which case criminal charges will be filed, leading to his arrest.
Metzger said the situation has been cleared and no imminent threat remains. The increased police presence will no carry through Wednesday, Metzger said.
Light Up UCF and the UCF men’s basketball game at CFE Arena proceeded uninterrupted. A heavy police presence occupied the area.
Stay tuned with Knight News for updated information on the crime.
Breaking: Emergency Responders find 19-year-old Sophomore Deceased in Lake Claire Apartments




The University of Central Florida Reflecting Pond will remain under repair through May 2018 after pipe damage from Hurricane Irma passed over Florida in September.
The nearly 50-year-old pond’s underground pipes sprung several leaks; heavy rain from Irma caused runoff to damage electrical controls in addition to the pipe damage. The Reflecting Pond will have its current system modernized to allow one of UCF’s iconic locations to function “for generations to come.”
“The university has embarked on a plan that will ensure the Reflecting Pond continues to function for future generations for decades to come. A comprehensive renovation will repair the pond’s concrete surface, plumbing, and filtration, upgrade its lighting to color-changing LEDs, and add more efficient fountain pumps,” UCF said.
The left side of the pond, when facing Millican Hall, remained blocked off during Spirit Splash. An SGA homecoming director at the event stated the move was part of a new take on Spirit Splash, although when speaking to a UCF facilities staff member at prior to event start, the staff member stated that damage to Irma did not allow for students to rush the pond on that side.
“The pond was drained after Spirit Splash and will remain dry until the latest renovation is done, which is expected to be in May. Engineers and contractors are now in the planning and permitting stage,” UCF said. “When construction begins, the Reflecting Pond will be fenced off for safety reasons.”



Christian Failla purchased tickets to the New Year’s Peach Bowl game for him and his friends when they were up for sale Dec. 4. He was prepared to see the No.12 Knights take on No. 7 Auburn in Atlanta.
That is, until he, and others like him, received a phone call from UCF Athletics Monday evening.
“We actually did self-serve our allotment to season ticket holders here – of course, this is a season ticket holder benefit to receive first priority for those bowl game tickets, so they did take advantage of their benefit,” said a voice message, which was forwarded to Knight News by another fan.
Failla received a refund for the tickets as well as a couple of options: he could either buy tickets through a third-party website or from ones allotted to UCF by the American Athletic Conference.
For the second option, there was just one catch. He would first have to buy season tickets for the 2018 season.
“UCF Football is just trying to make more money,” he told Knight News. “Smart move on their part, but obviously doesn’t benefit me whatsoever.”
Failla already had his flight and hotel booked for the game when he received the call informing him that he will not be getting seats through UCF. He will still attend the game with his friends, but he will get the tickets through StubHub, which he said will cost him $179, slightly more than what he originally spent.
What happened to Failla isn’t uncommon. Other UCF fans received similar calls from the athletics department and took to social media to voice their outrage.
“I think this is outrageous….how can this bait and switch be legal? If the tickets were purchased how can they just be snatched away??” one user said.
Another user said: “8 of us put money in to get our tickets. Didn’t find out until after 10pm tonight that they didn’t have enough tickets to fulfill our order. #whytakeourmoney”
8 of us put money in to get our tickets. Didn’t find out until after 10pm tonight that they didn’t have enough tickets to fulfill our order. #whytakeourmoney
— Adam (@asaxony13) December 12, 2017

8 of us put money in to get our tickets. Didn’t find out until after 10pm tonight that they didn’t have enough tickets to fulfill our order. #whytakeourmoney
— Adam (@asaxony13) December 12, 2017

Granting season ticket holders and donors priority access to bowl games is nothing new, neither is asking would-be buyers to purchase season tickets before receiving priority. In fact, fans were told in advance that ticket requests were not guaranteed and were subject to priority and availability.
The 12,500 tickets meant for Knights fans quickly sold out after they were released to the public Dec. 4. Many students even ignored their final exams and camped outside Spectrum Stadium overnight to be among the first 500 people to secure their spots for the Jan. 1 game.
Athletic Director Danny White said at a press conference Tuesday after UCF was formally invited to the Peach Bowl that the orders went over the allotment by 800 tickets, adding that he is glad the team is facing “big program problems.”
“We are always going to honor our season ticket holders and [Golden Knights Club] donors first — people who support the program, we’re going to support them,” White said. “But we are working with the leadership of the Peach Bowl to work with those individuals to get them seats they are happy with for the game but also help them better position themselves for the future — be a season ticket holder, give to the GKC, get your priority points up.” 
The sellout of UCF’s ticket allotment has been considered by bowl officials to be perhaps one of the fastest in college football history and are expecting a full house at Atlanta’s Mercedes Benz Stadium.
But those who bought their tickets through UCF see this as more than a simple inconvenience, particularly given that it will take three to five days for affected fans to get their money back, according to the UCF Knights Twitter account. This left some concerned that they will not receive their money back in time to purchase tickets before they sell out
Fans can buy tickets through sellers like StubHub, Ticketmaster and Vivid Seats and many who have taken this option have reported finding cheaper prices than what UCF was offering.



Scott Frost made an unexpected appearance to formally accept the Peach Bowl’s invitation to the University of Central Florida on Tuesday at Spectrum Stadium.
With Danny White at his side, Frost stated the plan for the leadup to the game and that everything will resume as it did before the AAC Championship, with all of the original coaching staff in place.

The issues that needed to be worked out to have Frost coach the Knights through New Year’s Day revolved around Frost’s schedule rather than his willingness to coach or Nebraska’s willingness to cooperate, White said.
The players wanted to have all the coaching staff to return to give them the best chance 
The head coaches suite at Wayne-Densch will be used by new head coach Josh Heupel and his crew while Scott Frost and his staff will use remaining office space and open space in the academic center as the semester has ended. Heupel will be out recruiting will Frost coaches at UCF – neither have made a face-to-face connection as their flight schedules did not overlap.
White said no negotiations took place with Nebraska AD Bill Moos on the arrangement – the conversation was primarily between Frost and himself. The CFO for both UCF and Nebraska did, however, communicate for HR purposes.
Frost and his staff will be 51% UCF employees and 49% Nebraska employees through the New Year, per an agreement orchestrated by both universities. They will be paid by both schools, White said in addition to new lessons learned by the athletic director.
Less than a thousand tickets remain for UCF versus Auburn on New Year’s Eve – stay tuned with Knight News as we cover the leadup to the 50th Chick-Fil-A Peach Bowl.




Scott Frost made an unexpected appearance to formally accept the Peach Bowl’s invitation to the University of Central Florida on Tuesday at Spectrum Stadium.

Word had interim head coach Troy Walters accepting the invitation with White, but since Frost and crew made it to Orlando, Frost would be the one in front of the cameras. With Danny White at his side, Frost stated the first practice went well and the team has been dialed in for their matchup against the SEC opponent. 
All original UCF coaching staff members will be present for not only the Peach Bowl but also most, if not all, scheduled practices.



The University of Central Florida Police Department released a statement on the death of 19-year-old Alyssa Michelle Lewis of Jacksonville, Florida, that took place at the Lake Claire Apartments.
The fourth-semester student was found dead in her room after family members, unable to reach Lewis, called 911 around 10:35 a.m. Tuesday morning at her on-campus apartment, police said.
“UCF Police are investigating with support from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. Based on the initial review, they do not believe the death is suspicious and there is no threat to the campus community. A cause of death has not been determined,” authorities said.
“We offer our most sincere sympathies to Alyssa’s family and loved ones, and we will make all of our resources available to support them,” UCF’s Associate Vice President and Dean of Students Adrienne Frame said in response to the incident.
Classes concluded Saturday, December 9, for the Fall semester and residence halls closed for most students on Sunday, December 10. The deceased student’s roommates had already checked out by Sunday.
UCF Police had no update or connection on the reported abduction that took place near the Towers residence and CFE Arena during finals week.
Stay tuned with Knight News for developing information.
–
Counselors and victim advocates have been available at the scene for family members and other students. Counselors are available to talk with any students who need assistance. Counseling Services can be reached at 407-823-2811, and more information about those free services is available at http://caps.sdes.ucf.edu/



