Philadelphia, Penn. – University of Central Florida head football coach Scott Frost washed away a mounting rumor that a contract between the second year HC and Nebraska had been agreed upon.
Shannon Green of the Orlando Sentinel asked Frost in the Temple post-game press conference to shed light on the rumor that Frost and his Alma Mater met terms for a 7-year, $35 million contract to serve as the Huskers’ head football coach.
“That’s just totally false,” Frost said after his 45-19 victory.
“I haven’t paid any attention to all of these whirlwind rumors and everything and I’m not going to. I got an unbelievable team I’m coaching and I can promise you that no decision has been made.”
The No. 15 Knights enter The War on I-4 as a 10-0 team, arguably one of the best Knights football teams in university history – not to mention, the highest scoring offense in the country. Nebraska, Tennessee, and Florida fans have all taken notice. One-by-one the teams have been crossed off the list.

There is no guarantee that Frost would not leave for a position at Nebraska, but, for now, UCF fans can rest easy through the conference championship game and perhaps a bowl game should the Knights win out. The Houston Cougars know all too well how a mid-season (or end-of-season for this matter) coaching change can turn an efficient and well-performing team on its head.
–
A sold-out rivalry game between USF at UCF, with ticket prices twice as high as FSU vs UF, awaits on Black Friday.
Although former USF Football head coach Willie Taggart has moved on to Oregon Frost will have his targets aimed at the heart of the Bulls football team after their 2016 game played at Raymond James Stadium. With 2s left in the fourth quarter, there was no honor among rivalry teams when Taggart ordered the offense to pile on another 7 points to a 41-31 scoreboard.
“Scott told me after the game he respected our team, but he’d remember that last touchdown,” Taggart said.
“I told him, ‘Me too. I’ll remember it.’”
No. 15 UCF rolls over Temple 45-19 for 10th straight win




ORLANDO, Fla.- UCF moves to 3-0 on this season after taking down William and Mary 75 to 64.  The team was favored going into the game, and handled their business.  With all the early season injuries any win is great, it would be unfair to be overly critical.
“We won this game because of how we defended,” Coach Dawkins said proudly.
Tacko returned to the floor for the first time this season after missing the first two games due to a sore hip.  Coach Dawkins is trying to work Tacko back slowly, the big man only played 15 minutes tonight.  Tacko played well in his limited time on the floor, finishing with 13 points and 7 rebounds.
“Tacko’s debut was good, he went 15 minutes, he was very efficient,” Dawkins said about his returning star. “Today was good indication of the type of player he can become.”
Bringing a player like Tacko into your lineup changes the game for everyone.  UCF’s offensive game plan changes completely.  They run much less screen and roles, and rely a lot less on players like Ceasar and Dayon beating their man off the dribble. In many matchups Tacko is just too big for his opponents, so UCF takes advantage of that.  Whether that means Tacko scoring or shifting the defense enough to create an advantage for one of his teammates.  Obviously, these things are advantages for UCF, but they are also adjustments.
“There is an adjustment period in getting him the basketball,” Dawkins explained.  “I saw our guys double take twice during the second half when he was open, most of these players haven’t played with Tacko.  Besides AJ, BJ, and Chad, the rest of these guys this is new for, they used to play against him (during practice).  This is a good opportunity for them to learn how efficient he is, and how to get him the ball in the low post.
AJ Davis, once again, played great.  Recorded his 2nd consecutive double-double in as many games.  The senior has been the reason for this 3-0 start.  Not only has AJ led the team statistically, he is also has been a great leader for this team.  With a bunch of young guys around him, AJ’s veteran leadership has been crucial.
“AJ played with a lot of poise, he did a good job of leading the younger players on our roster.” Dawkins said about his senior leader.
Chance McSpadden had a breakout game today.  Chance shot 7-11 from the field, scoring 18, grabbing 5 boards, and dishing out 4 assists.
Terrell Allen went down early in this matchup.  Six minutes into the game, Terrell went down hard contesting a shot.  He didn’t return.
“He hurt his hip, it’s sore right now,” Dawkins said. “We will know more in another day or so.”
Losing Allen would be huge for UCF.  With BJ out for approximately 5 more weeks UCF needs Allen to run the point.  He had been playing very well for The Knights.
UCF is playing in the AdvoCare Invitational this upcoming week.  The tournament takes place at the HP Field House, in Lake Buena Vista.  Their first game is Thursday night against Nebraska.  It starts at six and will air on ESPN.  The game has high stakes for the fanbases with constant rumors hinting that Nebraska is trying to take UCF’s beloved football coach, Scott Frost.



PHILADELPHIA, Penn. – McKenzie Milton accounted for five touchdowns, Shaquem Griffin played the role of an apache attack helicopter and Orlando’s Home Team was unfazed by the cold northern weather in a 45-19 rout of the Temple Owls.

It is the first 10-0 start in school history, an insane transition from winless to double-digit wins in less than two seasons.
“We talked about it last night and we usually don’t talk about big picture things like that, but we talked about how hard it is to get to 10-0,” revealed Coach Frost after the game. “Not very many people do it and just a handful of teams every year out of 129 teams in the country that have a chance to do it. I put that in front of them last night.”
Coach Frost does not touch any talk of games that aren’t the next one on the schedule. To hear that he addressed the team means that he was genuinely concerned about a “trap” game, concerned about losing focus at the finish line.
“I was a little worried about this game, being the game before the game, being in the cold, being our ninth straight week playing a football game – a lot of factors kind of pointed to this one potentially being a tough one,” said Frost.
Milton lobbed four touchdowns on the day – to Gabe Davis, Otis Anderson, Tre’Quan Smith and Marlon Williams. He completed 16 of 23 passes for 208 yards and no interceptions before leaving the game late in the third quarter to allow Vedral’s mop-up duty entrance.
Five turnovers from the defense and a fourth down stop kept UCF’s field awfully short. The Knights capitalized from each one, running up the score early with stolen possessions. By halftime UCF had run away with a 31-1 lead.
The short field kept the usual video-game numbers relatively low for the UCFast offense, subduing the production of an offense generating 500+ yards of production to just 384 on the day. It was in no way indicative of the unit’s prowess, just a matter of situational football.
Shaquem Griffin was the catalyst for the situational rarity, mimicking his twin brother’s athletic skills as a defensive back to haul in the basket-catch interception, and wreaking havoc in the backfield all game.
“I felt like a corner, to be honest,” Griffin said. “I felt like I had number ten on my back for a little while. I know he’s going to give some talk about technique and form and stuff – I’m not trying to hear that. As long as I got the pick, I was there, then it’s all good with me.”
He finished the day with three tackles, a tackle for a loss, an interception, and a forced fumble, but his presence was felt heavily in the backfield. Temple Quarterback Frank Nutile completed just 17 of 40 passes under duress while gifting the Knights four interceptions.
UCF refused to let the cold bother them, as certain players ran out for warm ups without shirts on to adjust. Frost said the power move wasn’t an organizational mandate, but that the guys decided to do it on their own.
Tre’Quan Smith had a slightly different story, saying that the staff had asked them to go out without any sleeves on, but the team took it to another level.
“That was the receivers’ idea, all of us grouped together last night in the hotel,” Smith said. “We were like alright, we’ve got something for them, no shirts. Show ‘em we were ready to play in the cold too, even though we’re Florida boys.”
The Florida boys were more than ready to play. They stayed perfect, and are ready for their next battle – a full-scale war with USF. Tre’Quan is confident that even on short rest, the Knights are hungry for the rivalry.
“We’re looking forward to it a lot. USF is a very good team, we’ve got to come prepared and we’ve really been wanting this game since last year. we all remember what happened last year. Basically, it’s like payback and we’re ready. Ready to go to war.”



Four purple chairs sat centered on a wooden stage between two red velvet curtains.
An audience of family, friends and fellow musicians piled into the auditorium and filled up all available seats.
UCF’s classical guitar students put on their end-of-semester concert Thursday night in the Rehearsal Hall Auditorium in front of an audience of about 100 people performing pieces they had been rehearsing all semester. The event gave students the opportunity to prepare for their future and show the public what the arts department does.
The musicians, dressed in all black, took turns in the spotlight, their wooden guitars in hand. Each solo and ensemble passionately filled the room with classical music. The audience’s eyes are glued to the stage as they watch in silence.
“People are really paying attention because it is such a quiet instrument and it’s really intimate, so you have to kind of lean in to listen and I think that’s really nice,” said Danielle Buckles, an audience member and sophomore piano performance major.
Each musician finished their performance with a bow followed by roaring applause.
“If you just throw us out there in the future we’re probably going to die of fright or something so it’s put on for the public to be entertained, to know what we do and for us to gain some experience,” said Zachary Harriott, a freshman classical guitar performance major.
Harriott performed a solo of the classical pieces “Adelita” and “María” by Francisco Tarrega.
To play classical music, musicians use a special guitar made with nylon strings. It is similar to an acoustic guitar but cannot be bought in a store.
“You have to go to the luthier or guitar maker and they make a guitar for you,” said Caitlin Caggiano, a senior classical guitar performance major. “It can be quite expensive.”
Caggiano’s performance in the concert was her last studio performance before she graduates this December. She performed a duet called “Tango Suite” by Astor Piazzolla and a solo with three pieces from West Side Story.
The event was free, open to the public and consisted of one hour and 45 minutes of performances with a five-minute intermission. The musicians ranged from freshman to students working toward their masters. For freshmen, it was their first performance at UCF, a monumental moment for them, Harriott said.
“I have extreme pride,” said Tamera Harriott, Zachary’s mother. “This is the first time we’ve seen them play solo pieces on stage and I sit there and I go ‘wow, he can do this, this is amazing.”
The students had four weeks to learn their pieces before they had to run them by their professor, Dr. Eladio Scharron.
“They have to practice a lot and they have to add new repertoire throughout the semester,” said Dr. Scharron.
The preparation for this event started three weeks into the semester and the musicians rehearsed at least twice a week, Caggiano said.
“There was lots of practice, late nights, and copious amounts of Starbucks coffee,” said Harriott.
This was the only classical group studio guitar event of the semester but there will be another at the end of Spring 2018.
“They need to perform,” said Scharron. “Music is essentially about performance, music is the art of performing.”



