Nicholas Lutz, the UCF student who got into trouble after posting a “graded” letter written by his ex-girlfriend on Twitter that went viral, had his disciplinary sanctions “revoked,” according to a public statement released by his attorney.
“Mr Lutz is no longer suspended or facing any pending sanctions,” the statement said. “UCF should be commended for taking their immediate and decisive action of revoking these ill-founded sanctions. We look forward to this matter being resolved once and for all in the near future with UCF standing down and not pursuing this matter any further.”
“This is truly a day for the 1st Amendment and the right to free speech!” it said.
The statement, released by attorney Jacob Stuart, who represents Lutz, came after a letter sent to Lutz by UCF’s Student Development and Enrollment Services said that it “remand[s] the case to the Office of Student Conduct for a new hearing with new charges, if appropriate charges are identified.”
Lutz came into the national spotlight after tweeting photos of a letter written by his ex-girlfriend, which he edited in red ink and “graded” it with a D-minus. UCF suspended Lutz for violating UCF policy on students who break local, state, and federal law, following a cyberbullying complaint filed by the ex-girlfriend to the Volusia County Sheriff’s Office.
The charges were later changed to “disruptive conduct” and “harmful behavior,” and Lutz was sanctioned with a two semester suspension and disciplinary probation for the rest of his academic career. He also had to create a presentation about the incident’s impact on others, write a five-page essay on the incident’s impact on his future and participate in the SDES’s mentorship program.
“Upon review, it appears the conduct on disruptive behavior was improvidently levied,” the SDES letter, which was posted by Lutz on Facebook, said. On the harmful behavior charge, the letter said that the ex-girlfriend — a high school student who “plans to attend UCF in the future” — experienced emotional distress, but that UCF “cannot conclude that her distress distress is due to your original posting rather than the subsequent attention your posting drew.”
Lutz’s case sparked a debate over whether universities can police students for what is being said on social media. Lyrissa Lidsky, a first amendment scholar and dean of the University of Missouri’s law school, tweeted Wednesday night, “Jurisdiction matters, and colleges should know where theirs end.”



ORLANDO, Fla. — We had a chance to sit down with reigning AAC Defensive Player of the Year Shaquem Griffin in Rhode Island earlier this week, and get to know the man responsible for a conference high eleven sacks last season.
He touched on plans to write an inspirational book one day, what the definition of difficult means from his point of view, and how he wants to change the world around him.
What has it been like to go from spending your time on the sideline to not only starting, but becoming one of the faces of the program? It sounds like something straight out of a dream!
It feels amazing, to be honest. Knowing that you came from so much is just… it gives you that feeling like, I’m not done yet. You know, [it was a situation where] you have so much negativity around you that kept trying to bring you down, and now you have the opportunity to just better yourself and better your team and better others around you. There’s just no way I could stop here, and that’s what gives me the motivation to keep going even harder.
Being that I wasn’t playing, and then Coach Frost came and gave me the opportunity to showcase my talents, it’s just, I feel good about it. I’ve got to take full advantage of the opportunity he gave me. There’s no reason for me to stop now. I’ve been going away for so long, it’s time for me to go even harder than I did last year.
How has finally getting your shot and playing at such a high level changed your expectations of what life might be like after college football for you?
Things change, obviously, and having the season that I did, being able to look outside in and see the publicity and everything that I’m getting… things have changed, but my whole focus wasn’t about the NFL. It’s still not going to be that.
My whole thing is to just do what I can, staying humble and being able to be that motivation for others. My whole thing was, even after football I want to help motivate others. I’m planning on creating a book after football, I’m planning on being able to travel around the country and being able to help not only kids, but men and women around the country. To help them have a sense of accomplishment. Even when you think you’re at your lowest, the only thing you can do is go up.
So down the line we should look out for the Shaquem Griffin, the motivational speaker?
Yes sir.
You mentioned writing a book there, what would it focus on?
Just to write about my life. It’s a story that’s out, but it’s only a piece of it. There’s so much to learn about me and my family, and then everything we’ve been through. Even when somebody feels like, man I don’t think this is it for me, you never know until you put everything you’ve got into it.
You’ve got some people who work hard but if it’s too hard, they stop. The thing is, it’s not hard, it’s just a challenge. You can’t get those two confused. When somebody says, oh it’s hard, it’s not hard. You can do it! Its just a challenge and you’ve just got to want to.
It’s all a “want to” [mentality], and that’s going to be a big thing when it comes to me. I’ve stopped calling things hard. It’s just a challenge, another wall you’ve got to jump, you’ve just got to do it. You might need a ladder to get over it, find a ladder and just use it.
I think you said it perfectly, your story is out there – national outlets have picked it up, locally you’ve been all over. Is there any part of that you can tell us right now that we don’t know?
When it comes to a story such as mine, there’s always something that the person is going to hold onto until it’s time to reveal everything. Like I said, after football I just feel like I’m going to get to a point where I’m comfortable enough just to let everything go. I said enough when it comes to my story, because even the parts that I did say… it’s not easy, it’s not easy.
I still want everybody to understand who I am, but when it comes to writing that book, I want everyone to know Shaquem Alphonso Griffin. I gave Shaquem Griffin, but I want to give Shaquem Alphonso Griffin to everybody. You know, over the years, after football, I want to put that story out for people to really be like, “You know what? I’ve got to stop making excuses. I’ve got to stop holding myself back.”
Nobody else, even if somebody else is telling you that you can’t do something, it’s not that person telling you that you can’t do it holding you back, its you. You’ve got to look in the mirror and say – “You know what? I’ve got to look in the mirror and get things done today.”
There’s not going to be a person behind you who says – “I bet you’re not going to work, or you’re not going to work today!” It’s up to you if you want to if you want to go to work, if you want to get anything accomplished. Everybody, not just in our country, but everybody in the world has to understand that.
Is this the longest you’ve ever been away from your brother?
Yeah, and it’s only going to get longer!
How are you handling that? This is the new normal, right?
I mean, its another thing you’ve got to just get through, you know. Like I said, it’s not hard, it’s just a challenge.
Have you had any strange “twin” moments since he’s switched coasts?
We actually put on the same clothes, once. We were on facetime together and we had the same Adidas shirt on. I mean it may be a coincidence, but it just doesn’t work like that; when you’re on facetime with your brother and you’ve got the same clothes on. You can think about it like, “Man I think it’s a twin thing,” or you can think about it like, “Oh that’s a coincidence,” – but it was pretty funny.
What are you hearing from him out there? I read he might have a decent chance to start?
He’s a person that… me, I can talk, but he’s a person that tries to keep everything confidential. Right now he was saying that he’s running with the ones and getting a better feel of everything, having those guys like Sherman [helps]. Just watching Sherman call him and talk to him, mind you, I’m still kind of star struck, just the fact that he’s on the phone with him? That’s crazy!
They text back and forth about hanging out, or if you need any questions [answered] – because when the season starts it moves so fast that you want to learn as much as you can now and just looking at that, I want to be that type of guy for the young guys who come in here for us.
So not only am I watching him go through the process, I’m learning as I go.



NEWPORT, R.I. – A year at the helm of a recovering football program can change people, alter perceptions and tolerances. It can take years off your life – it can shake your faith in everything you know.
For Scott Frost, a full season and concurrent off-season have calmed the storm of uncertainty, bringing with it a certain calm before the Second Frost in Orlando. The former Nebraska gunslinger could be seen with a genuine smile on his face all over the AAC Football Media Days in Rhode Island, just twelve months removed from his first visit as a Knight.
“I actually went for a run this year, I got to see Newport a little bit,” Frost said. “I watched an inning of the Newport Bulls minor league baseball game, so I’ve enjoyed it a little bit more this year.”
It is a stark contrast from the bottled-up newcomer who learned to answer questions with the calculated repetitiveness of a man holding his cards close to his chest, who wouldn’t give anyone a glimpse behind the curtain.
A legendary list of influences trails behind Frost, going a long way towards explaining the cool, collected manner of UCF’s top man. He can point to a collegiate career that began at Stanford under Bill Walsh, recall the lessons learned from Nebraska icon Tom Osborne, and rub elbows with current coaches around the upper echelon of both collegiate and NFL head coaching circles.
To this day he credits Pittsburgh Head Coach Mike Tomlin and Atlanta Wide Receivers Coach Raheem Morris as the two men who played the biggest role in pushing him towards coaching him after a journeyman season in Tampa Bay. Both men worked with Frost every day as defensive assistants, both men saw the hunger in his eyes and have publicly praised passion for precise execution.
Speaking to USA Today after landing the UCF gig, Frost mentioned that Tomlin had called him seven or eight times about what it meant to be a first-time head coach. For some perspective, Tomlin was deep into a playoff run and still found the time to reach out to a former player.
“You know, coaching is a fraternity like anything else. There’s people that you’re close to,” he offered. “There’s coaches that you become close with and develop relationships with and certainly a lot of the Oregon guys, several guys in the Pac-12, some guys in the NFL. So guys that I’ve been around and am friends with, whenever I need something they’re always there.”
These relationships are far beyond professional respect and courtesy. The comradery built between the chosen few men in this country that can captain a roster of testosterone-frothing athletes who love to smash into each other with the intent of a ballistic missile is a bond that runs deep below the surface; it can creep into any aspect of the day-to-day.
“Sometimes it’s football, sometimes it’s off the field things, sometimes its organizing our program, sometimes you just call to say hello,” he said of the connections he maintains today.
If you can take a look back to his formative years, it is clear where much of his even-keeled demeanor and quiet trust in the benefits of steady, continuous improvement every day originate.
“Tom Osborne is probably the biggest mentor I’ve had as a player. Unbelievable human and a man of such high character that he sets a great example [for any player],” conceded Frost.
Leaving a spot on the Stanford roster under the iconic Bill Walsh would have seemed blasphemous to most anyone at the time – let alone as a gifted young quarterback. Osborne attracted Frost back to Nebraska, the stomping grounds of his parents, and together the two made deep runs into contested title territory in both 1996 and 1997.
Consider the magnitude what that means for coaching styles. Transferring meant sitting out an entire season, meant cutting loose the progress made from an entire year in a different system. It meant that there had better be trust in the process, that Osborne was selling a product his guys could believe in – evidenced by his success in national recruiting as well.
If you look closely enough, the “player’s coach” mentality boldly outlines the redirection of UCF football. Consider that of the players who were grandfathered in from the previous regime constantly talk about how much more they enjoy playing in this system, how free they are to individually express themselves.
“He came in and he just changed our lifestyle,” explained Nose Guard Jamiyus Pittman. “He changed the way we think, the way we think about football. It’s mental for Coach Frost. We’re going to beat you every play. If a team is not disciplined, they won’t last against us.”
“It’s a blessing that coach Frost came here. I’m just grateful that the AD [Danny White] asked a couple of players what would we want in a coach, and that’s exactly what we got. We got what we asked for.”
In year one Frost got what he asked for from his players – belief and the will to win. The UCFoundation has now been set, the standard of excellence has been raised, and year two beckons eagerly.



