By: Daniel Wolff
ORLANDO, Fla. — UCF hosts the FIU Panthers in the season’s opening action at the newly christened Spectrum Stadium on Thursday night, their first appearance since last year’s 6-7 finish under first-time Head Coach Scott Frost.
It will be an established start for the Knights, who will have the benefit of a full football season under their belts. This year, there are zero excuses or learning curves from the starting block.
“We are a bit tired of being congratulated for last year’s 6-7 record,” Frost said of the feedback he’s received.  It’s important they win the games they are supposed to win. Considering UCF’s tough schedule, Thursday night is certainly one of those games.
UCF will need to adjust on the fly. FIU’s new coach Butch Davis hasn’t coached in college football since 2011 and doesn’t have much of a resume in this era for Knights’ coaches to analyze.
Although Coach Frost has ties to Coach Davis (played under Coach Davis in Cleveland), it’s unclear to Frost what FIU’s game plan will look like.
“We are taking a lot of guesses,” Frost said on Monday. “Our players will have to adjust in the middle of the game.”
UCF should be able to get after quarterback Alex McGough with authority – FIU is returning most of their offensive lineman, losing only center Michael Montero – but that might not be a good thing. The offensive line struggled last year, giving up 31 sacks in just twelve games.
The Knights’ tremendous front seven should have no problem beating up on McGough. Jamiyus Pittman said he planned on getting to the quarterback multiple times on Thursday with his move to defensive end, a product of Trysten Hill’s development at nose guard.
He and Butkus award prospect Shaquem Griffin should have a field day against the struggling offensive line of FIU. It’s critical the front seven offer stability for the defense because the secondary is unexperienced. This will be the first start for everyone in the secondary, after UCF lost their entire defensive backfield to the next level. Even as high as the praise has been this summer for the defensive backs, they still need to prove it isn’t just hype without any starts under their belt.
A growing UCF offense should be able to gain confidence this week against what was an atrocious FIU defense last year, surrendering 30.8 points per game. The Knights’ young backfield has gained an off-season under their belt, and are looking to make vast strides this year with Jawon Hamilton leading the charge and versatile weapons Adrian Killins, Otis Anderson and Cordarrian Richardson ready to go in the stable.
McKenzie Milton has been in the weight room, packing on close to ten pounds of muscle. Many recognize a drastic increase in his confidence, evident daily in practice.
“This year he gives his receivers a chance, last year he was ready to run all the time,” Sophomore Running Back Jawon Hamilton explained. In fairness, the offensive line was suspect at times last year and McKenzie played under heavy fire.
Coach Frost claims the offensive line has shown progress day in and day out. Tyler Hudanick is making significant strides coming off injury last year, and should be close to full-speed by game time according to Frost. The return would be huge for the Knights, who have yet to cement their starting rotation along the line.
The Knights should have all the advantages going into Thursday night’s game. They are more established in their system, they are bigger, they have more talent at just about every position group.
Spectrum Stadium will be a mad house, and the players seem overly excited to hit someone in a different uniform.  Most betting sites have the Knights as 17-point favorites going into Thursday’s game, but as any UCF fan knows, anything can happen against FIU at home.



ORLANDO, Fla. — Butch Davis is a legend in South Florida, just not as a Panther. He has been resurrected from the coaching purgatory known as “TV analyst” after six long years away from the sidelines.
 
Come inside the film room with @coachchinander and @coachwalters1
We’re breaking down our matchup with FIU for #FirstKnight pic.twitter.com/ZYGgIIzjfS
— UCF Football (@UCF_Football) August 30, 2017

The former Hurricane head coach has brought in new coaches, a new system and plenty of hype to the Conference USA program. Plenty of starters return, but the new bells and whistles paired with the unknown of such a gap in coaching tape have made FIU an enigma for UCF in preparation for the season opener on Thursday night.
Coaches in Orlando have said that they are preparing for anything and everything. They are looking back to North Carolina, Tulsa, Memphis, anywhere that a coordinator or the head honcho himself may have made a stop in the past decade or so.
“That’s why I say our guys are going to have be ready for any kind of look they see,” said Knights’ Head Coach Scott Frost. “Our defense gives us a lot of looks that should prepare our offense, our offense gives our defense a lot of looks that should prepare them. There’s not much that we haven’t seen on both sides of the ball that an offense and defense can line up in. we just have to make the adjustments.”
With the system and scheme still residing in murky waters, the personnel available may dictate much of FIU’s in-game action.
What to watch for:



The University of Central Florida will face Florida International University at Spectrum Stadium on Thursday, 6 p.m.
New to this season, ride-sharing services such as Uber and Lyft will have a ride-share lot (Lot E3) in front of the Wayne Dench Sports Center to drop off and pick up patrons for the game.
Find the full list of new additions here, including student discounts, new game day experiences, and new concessionaires, such as 4Rivers.

 



The University of Central Florida will be hosting FIU for its football season-opener Thursday, Aug. 31, at 6 p.m.
“Classes on the main campus, in the Central Florida Research Park, at the Rosen College of Hospitality Management and on UCF’s regional campuses will conclude at 1 p.m.,” UCF stated.
“Offices at those locations also will close for normal operations at 1 p.m. in order to allow adequate time for a smooth transition to game day activities, which will begin at 2 p.m.”
Faculty who have classes in progress at 1 p.m. have the option to conduct the portions of those sessions that come before that time.
Students should ask their instructor or view WebCourses for any announcements related to their Thursday afternoon sections.
Only the president of the university can cancel classes; students whose instructors continue to host classes during the cancellation period can consult with their department on the issue.
The John C. Hitt Library will remain open until 3 p.m. and both ’63 South (7:30 a.m. to midnight) and Knightro’s (7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.) will be open regular hours, the university stated.
Watch our game preview here and see below for important game day information from UCF

Important Gameday Information:
PARKING, TOWING, TRAFFIC, AND SHUTTLES
Regular university parking policies will be in effect until 1 p.m. on Aug. 31.
Students will be able to stay in many campus parking lots and garages after campus offices close. Those areas include garages A, B and I, the Libra Garage and lots B5-B6, B9 and H4.
Students who have a game day parking permit may remain parked in their designated Gold Zone lot or garage throughout the day as long as their game day permit is displayed.
All unauthorized vehicles in Garages C, D, F and H, Lots B4, B7, C2-C3, D1-D2, and E1-E8 are subject to towing beginning at 2 p.m. Parking also will be prohibited on East Plaza Drive.
Students are encouraged to ride free shuttles to and from the game. Most regular and game day student shuttle routes are the same and will run continuously until two hours after the game concludes. However, Route 6 (Northgate and Tivoli) and 13 (NorthView) are not part of the game day schedule due to their proximity to the stadium. Service on those routes will conclude at 4 p.m.
Additionally, regular shuttle routes connecting the main campus with the Rosen College of Hospitality Management and the Health Sciences Campus at Lake Nona will conclude at 4 p.m. Game day shuttles operate on both of those routes. Details for all of the free student shuttles are available at www.UCFGameDay.com under the Travel and Parking tab.
To expedite postgame traffic, North Orion Boulevard will only be open to traffic traveling from Gemini Boulevard to McCulloch Road starting at 7:30 p.m. until post-game traffic is cleared. Vehicles will not be able to enter campus from McCulloch Road during that time.
ADMISSION AND GUEST TICKETS
Students who pay the athletic fee as part of their tuition and fees can show their IDs for free entry to the Aug. 31 game and all other home athletic events. The student entrance to Spectrum Stadium is located at Gates 7-9 at the north end of the stadium, directly beneath the scoreboard.
Students can purchase up to two student guest tickets the week of the game by bringing a valid UCF ID to the CFE Arena or by bringing a valid UCF ID to Spectrum Stadium’s east side box office on game day. Ticket prices are based on the lowest-priced individual game ticket for that specific game and are available while supplies last.

CLEAR BAG REMINDER
To provide a safer environment and expedite the entry process, UCF will continue a clear bag policy that took effect last season. Fans are encouraged not to bring any bags, but if you do, visit www.UCFGameDay.com and click on the clear bag graphic to see what bags are permitted.
MORE INFORMATION
For more information on game day, including details about game day traffic, tailgating policies, and free park-and-ride services, go to www.UCFGameDay.com.



ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF was able to identify their quarterback of the foreseeable future last season in Hawaii native McKenzie Milton, and now have cultivated a wide receiving corps with the potential to match his longevity.
Tre’Quan Smith emerged as the clear-cut talent at receiver last year, posting 853 yards and 5 touchdowns on 57 receptions. Day in and out through fall camp both staff and players alike have raved about his “All-American potential”, but the depth that falls behind Smith has been the real topic of discussion over summer.
Cam Stewart, Dredrick Snelson and Tristan Payton’s return to the roster is a comforting thing for young McKenzie Milton, but the trio only accounted for 440 yards and three trips to the end zone. Stewart had 18 catches in 11 starts, serving time as a blocking extraordinaire. Snelson came on toward the end of the season, but needs to prove he can be consistent. Tristan Payton may be the most talented wideout on the roster, but is suspended for the first six games of the season.
There are major roles to define for the freshman coming in.
“We’re going to be young again at some positions, receiver I think we’ve had a lot of freshmen that have come in and done a good job, and I think those guys are going to play,” said Head Coach Scott Frost.
Let’s take a look at some of the new faces in the crowd.
Gabe Davis – Fr. 6-3, 215 lbs
Davis is a true freshman who did not have the luxury of early enrollment during spring ball. By far and large however, he has set himself head-and-shoulders above the crowd this summer. Accounts from every corner of the team say that he is a veteran soul in a young man’s body, always eager to work and improve.
“Gabe is Mr. Steady, man,” explained Offensive Coordinator Troy Walters. “It seems like he’s been here two or three years, because he knows the offense. He does exactly what you coach him to do, what you coach him to do. He’s coachable, he wants to be great, he wants to learn. I can’t wait to see him on Thursday night, because he’s put in the work.”
Coach Frost called Davis a special kind of talent, praising that he was one of the hardest working players on the team. Not of the freshman, but of players.
His rapid ascent to the top of the depth chart is telling of what this staff thinks of their local treasure, earning the respect of McKenzie Milton – who is no stranger to putting in meaningful work as a freshman.
“He’s another guy, he’s a work ethic guy. Since he’s got here in the summer, he’s been a dog. He’s been in the front of every sprint, every lift, everything like that,” said Milton. “It’s not because he’s trying to show off, it’s because of how he is. He’s really a dog, he’s a heck of a player too.”
Otis Anderson – Fr. 5-11, 165 lbs
The case of Otis Anderson is a familiar, if unusual one. Buried in the depth chart as a running back, Otis will catch teams and fans off-guard in the games to come as an unknown; much in the same way that home-run threat Adrian Killins did last season.
“Otis Anderson has been really good for us,” said Frost. “He’s learned the running back spot and the receiver spot, so he gives us another guy that we can move around and try to get the ball to.”
Anderson will line up both at wideout and in the backfield as another x-factor in the playbook, but has a size advantage over the versatile Killins. He is the perfect kind of change-of-pace playmaker for the UCFast system, diverting attention and adding distraction at worst, while potentially creating fatal mismatches at best.
“He’s a tough guy, he gets after it in the run game, he’s just dependable. For a freshman to come in and gain that reputation, that says a lot about the young man,” said Walters about his new toy.
Manny Greene – 5-10, 163 lbs
On the depth chart, the second wide receiver position falls completely to the freshman. First up is Davis, third in the order is Marlon Williams, and second through the rotation will be IMG Academy product Emmanuel Greene.
“Manny Greene had the benefit of spring ball,” said Frost. “He’s got some juice, he can run, he’s done some good things, but needs to keep working on being more consistent.”
Reports out of camp have indicated Green impressed defenders and fellow receivers alike, but will need to prove he can come down with the ball when his number is called if he wishes to pass Davis on the depth chart. Expect Greene to spend time at slot receiver early on.
Marlon Williams – 6-0, 205
Williams is still a work in progress, working to define a true role as one of the freshman standouts. He has the size to make an immediate impact, but falls victim to pecking order and ball distribution.
Remember that McKenzie Milton has penchant for spreading the wealth, and that the UCF goal of rapid-pace offense provides a ton of opportunity – in theory. For the number three wideout at the No. 2 WR slot, Williams will have to have an impressive debut to earn significant playing time in the season’s first half.
He will see the field however, and Coach Frost made it clear that he expects Williams to be a major contributor by season’s end.



