Feeling lucky? Want to help kids in need? The Beta Lambda chapter of Tri-Delta is hosting Delta Hold’em, an annual casino-themed event, on Sept. 28 at 5 p.m. at the Tri-Delta Mansion.
The event contributes to Tri-Delta’s nationwide goal of raising $60 million in 10 years, in support of St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, which makes it all the more special,” Isabel Sikora, the sorority’s philanthropy chair, said.
“September is national childhood cancer awareness month and that’s why we have our event in September, in support of raising money in support of childhood cancer research, and to support St. Jude in their mission to end childhood cancer,” Sikora said.
Last year, over $60,000 was raised at the event, the largest amount ever raised by a Greek organization at UCF. Unfortunately, many businesses were not able to sponsor the event this year due to Hurricane Irma.
“Many businesses were unable to sponsor due to businesses being closed for nine days, and we lost out on a large amount of money and it was too late to change,” Sikora said.
Sikora hopes to raise over $30,000 at this event. While a smaller amount than last year, she plans on doing several more smaller fundraisers throughout the semester to fundraise as much as possible for St. Jude.
“St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital lit a spark inside of me that makes me want to be a better person and save these precious children’s’ lives,” she said.
She continued: “This event and being philanthropy chair are important to me because I feel as if it is my way of saying thank you to St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital for all that they do. They endlessly give all they can, it makes me want to give all I can.”
This event holds a special place in other sorority sisters’ hearts as well, like Emily Manning, a sophomore studying business.
“I’m personally dedicated to raising as much as I can for St. Jude because my grandma, who is my role model, was very dedicated to donating to St. Jude,” Manning said. “I feel like I’d be making her proud, to be a part of such an amazing organization.”
Tickets range from $10 to $100. The $10 ticket includes casino games, like craps, roulette and blackjack, as well as food and entertainment. The $100 ticket grants entry into the Texas Hold’em Tournament, the highlight of the night.
The first, second and third place winners of the Texas Hold’em Tournament can win prizes like a free trip of the winner’s choice destination, tickets to the Epcot Food and Wine Festival, gift cards and cash prizes starting at $500.
Tri-Delta will continue this event until their mission is completed.
“Tri-Delta strives to give all their efforts to raising money to this amazing cause and will not stop until childhood cancer is cured once and for all.”, Sikora said.
Tickets can be purchased online. Donations of any amount are also accepted.



Undocumented students at the University of Central Florida held a forum Wednesday afternoon to inform students on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, the Obama-era program that provided protection from deportation to individuals meeting certain requirements.
The forum, hosted by Dreamers at UCF, was paneled by students Bernabe Soriano, Karen Caudillo, and Fernán Lauro—all of whom are DACA beneficiaries. Kevin Ortiz, the president of the organization who also benefited from the program, moderated the event.
Following the White House’s announcement that DACA will be rescinded beginning March 6, beneficiaries—also known as Dreamers—and their supporters scrambled to lobby Congress to pass a bill that would allow undocumented immigrants who arrived as children to stay in the US.
Caudillo, a 21-year old political science student who arrived from Mexico at four years old, quickly became a nationally-recognized face following the announcement. She attended Florida schools after her family settled in Naples, receiving an Associate’s degree at Miami-Dade College before enrolling at UCF.
“It was convenient to have DACA and have a normal experience and do all the things I’m doing in college,” Caudillo said.
The other panelists had similar experiences as Caudillo. Soriano, for instance, was also born in Mexico and emigrated at the age of seven when his family arrived in Los Angeles and eventually settled in Okeechobee. From there, he attended schools but at first had a hard time communicating with classmates.
“It wasn’t like I said, ‘oh, let me make some friends,’” Soriano, a 20-year old sophomore, said. “I had to communicate, sometimes with my hands, to get to class and where I needed to be.”
At UCF, he is the treasurer of Dreamers at UCF and the Latin American Student Association. His involvement, he said, will hopefully “leave a legacy so when people hear my name they know what I did.”
Lauro, 19, was the only non-Mexican panelist. Born in Mendoza, Argentina, he arrived in the US after finishing the first grade. His parents had told him that they were going on a family vacation.
“To this day, we’re still on that vacation,” Lauro, a film student, said.
But Ortiz, the 26-year old president of Dreamers at UCF who studies finance, made clear that “DACA students have many narratives” and noted that there are students from countries beyond Latin America who benefit from the program.
While the panelists consider UCF to be a safe space for them, Ortiz is cautious since he said “we don’t yet have an official letter of support” from UCF President John Hitt.
Hitt has voiced support for DACA in the past. Soon after Trump’s election last November, Hitt was a signatory to a statement calling on Trump to preserve the program. On Sept. 5, following the administration’s decision to end the program, he released a statement pledging to “do everything in our power to support students while following the law.”
Soriano, the sophomore, works at UCF as a resident assistant. He said that he was reassured that he can continue to work “until my DACA expires.” Until then, he said, he wants to continue to build his legacy and advocate for people like him.
“We as Dreamers, as a group, we want to be a powerful voice,” he said.
Dreamers at UCF, along with the College Democrats at UCF and other student and community organization, will be staging a rally in favor of DACA Thursday at noon on the Student Union patio stage.



As Puerto Rico recovers from the effects of Hurricane Irma and Maria, the University of Central Florida will allow students who are residents of Puerto Rico and are displaced from their home to qualify for in-state tuition.
The Board of Trustees unanimously voted Wednesday morning to pass the motion.
“This is a compassionate way to help our students, and I fully support it,” UCF President John C. Hitt said.
#BREAKING: Puerto Rican residents approved for in-state tuition at #UCF. https://t.co/IzIRtRJnxn
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 27, 2017

Florida Governor Rick Scott encouraged Florida universities and state colleges to “allow any student who has been displaced from their home in Puerto Rico by Hurricane Maria to be eligible for in-state tuition,” Scott said in a letter.
“As of Sept. 27, about 120 UCF students list their residencies as being in Puerto Rico and are eligible for in-state tuition rates this semester and in the spring 2018 semester,” UCF said.
“UCF will soon contact eligible students about this new option. Students with questions can call the UCF Registrar’s Office at 407-823-5510.”



