The greek community may soon be opening its arms to a new member.
UCF’s Inter-Fraternity Council has approved plans to open up for expansion. The vote was passed last Wednesday, February 15 by a vote of 6-4-1. 
The motion will now go to the UCF administration, where they will review a list of possible greek organizations who have applied to come to campus.
“I am excited to see that our inter-fraternity council was willing to open arms for expansion,” Greek Council President Joshua Boloña said. “This shows to me that IFC understands that the positive impact they bring to the community will only grow with the possibility of another chapter.”
UCF’s Panhellenic Council and Diversified Greek Council are also expected to vote on expansion, which could bring additional organizations from each council to campus as well.
“I am looking forward to the perspective that will bring,” Boloña said of the Panhellenic and DGC vote. “I am confident that each council will make the best decision for their communities and we will continue to bring an amazing impact to our university,” Boloña said.
It is unclear which organizations could be being considered by the university at this time. Stay tuned to Knight News for continues updates.



UCF Police Department Chief Richard Beary called a proposed legislation that would allow open-carry on Florida college campuses “the worst” bill filed.
“I’m not anti-gun but I am pro common sense, but what I see lacking in the legislative initiatives out there so far is common sense,” Beary said.
SB 140, the proposed legislation that would allow those with concealed-carry weapons permits to openly carry on college campuses, is currently on the Florida Senate agenda.
As a UCF alumnus who has been in law enforcement for over 40 years, Beary spoke to associate journalism professor Steve Collins’ news reporting class about the issue of guns on campus Monday. He outlined dangers and difficulties that law enforcement would face if guns could be legally carried on campus.
Chief Beary believes that students’ collective lack of firearms training, the issue of mental health and presence of alcohol and drugs makes them unfit to carry weapons. He goes on to cite cases where children managed to get a hold of a gun kill someone.
“You’re gonna take somebody that has no training, hand them a gun, say ‘Okay, now you can carry it on campus, where they’re 60,000 people and then expect to deploy it in a safe and prudent manner.’ I don’t see that happening,” Beary said.
Rather than allowing guns on campus, Beary has joined the 11 other Florida universities’ police chiefs and administrations to oppose the legislation.
Sen. Greg Steube, R-Sarasota, which the bill is sponsored by, disagrees and believes that gun-free zones should be abolished. Steube argues that gun-free zones help criminals ensuring the absence of armed individuals.
He isn’t surprised that the university police chiefs are against allowing guns on campus.
“Of course they don’t, they want to be the only ones with guns,” Steube said. “But 1.7 million concealed weapon permit holders carry guns in Walmart and other public places already and they don’t have a problem with that. Why would it make a difference?”
Along with creating an unsafe physical environment, Beary fears that firearms on the UCF campus will damage the ability to debate openly. He asks, would you openly disagree with someone if there’s a possibility of them carrying a gun?
Some students agree with Beary, saying that they would feel uncomfortable if they saw another student carrying a gun openly in class.
“You don’t display a gun unless you want people to be scared of you,” said Jillian Bos, a hospitality major.
Not everyone agrees with Beary and Bos.
“If you have a concealed carry I don’t mind,” said finance major Anthony Giananco. “We’ve had threats on campus before.”
Giananco does believe that people should undergo more thorough training before being given a permit, and so does Beary.
SB 140 is not Steube’s first proposed firearm bill.
HB 4031, would have removed “provisions prohibiting concealed carry licensees from openly carrying a handgun, or carrying concealed weapon or firearm into specified public meetings or into career centers,” according to the Florida Senate website, died in the House’s Criminal Justice Subcommittee in early 2016.
Dr. Kenneth Adams, a UCF professor in the Criminal Justice department, disagrees with SB 140, echoing Beary’s belief that students do not have enough training to handle weapons.
“I think under the current arrangement, anybody can go and buy a gun, and the training is minimal,” Adams said. “I think we might even have more training for driving an automobile than we do for carrying a gun.”
Spencer Kovach, the president of the Young Americans for Liberty UCF Chapter, sides with Steube however, saying that gun-free zones don’t accomplish anything and that students should be able to protect themselves if necessary.
“Let’s say there was a potential shooting at the library; if that actually happened I’d be much happier with somebody having a handgun that could take him down,” Kovach said.
“The UCF Police response time is I think 90 seconds which is pretty good, but if you have a semi-automatic you can get a lot of rounds out of a mag in 90 seconds.”
Marion Hammer, a representative of the National Rifle Association in Florida, believes that students deserve the right to have a gun with them for self-defense if they have a carry license, saying that Beary and the other university police chiefs are promoting their own agenda by opposing.
“Every time we take action to protect the constitutional rights of law-abiding gun owners and their constitutional right of self-defense, people like this police chief advance nothing more than emotional arguments,” Hammer said.
Beary, however, believes that students can protect themselves without weapons by taking a defensive tactics class hosted by the UCF Police Department and always being aware of their surroundings.
“Just because the volume of guns goes up does not mean we are safer because if that was the truth we would be the safest nation in the world,” Beary said. “If guns are the answer, we shouldn’t be having any problems.”
Edson Vargas, Shannon Hampton, Lucas Brown, Zachary Lange and Alissa Lawson contributed to this story.



The University of Central Florida community will be invited to the 25th-anniversary celebration and tribute to UCF President John C. Hitt.
The ‘milestone’ event will take place on Wednesday, March 1, from 2:00-3:30 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom where doors open at 1:30 p.m.
Refreshments will be served during the reception that follows the program.
“Dr. Hitt and his wife, Martha, joined the UCF family on March 1, 1992,” the program states. “Since then, UCF has become one of America’s great success stories in higher education.  Enrollment at UCF has nearly tripled, making the university one of the largest in the nation, and UCF has emerged as a major metropolitan research university of global significance.”
Hitt has received stellar reviews by administrative figures year-over-year. The Board of Trustees, on which Hitt is included, has approved UCF construction and academic expansion projects over the last quarter-century that have changed the face of the campus and image of the university. UCF has also gained national attention through the football program, Limbitless Solutions, and more.
“It is a special privilege to serve as president of a university.  Society invests in universities not just its money, but something far more precious, the potential of enterprising men and women who seek to enrich their lives through higher education,” Dr. John C. Hitt said in Inaugural Address in 1992.
Event details.



Asian Chao and Huey Magoo’s closed permanently in the Spring 2017 semester due to repeated health violations issued by the Florida Department of Health and the University of Central Florida, according to UCF.
To provide continuing opportunities to students who lost employment due to the sudden closing, UCF will offer those students a priority application into UCF Dining Services.
Aramark has agreed to give priority application review to anyone that identifies themselves as having lost employment from Asian Chao/Huey Magoo’s, Senior Communications Coordinator Mark Schleub stated.
“Because A.D. Food Services is a private company, the university has not had access to a list of student employees. That’s made it difficult to reach them directly,” Schleub said.
The application portal will be ucfdiningjobs.com where there are current student jobs posted and more that open frequently. The university has enumerated the importance of indicating the employment lost at the A.D. Food Services franchises for student who were affected by the changes.
Additionally, UCF encourages former A.D. Food Service student workers to reach out to Career Services for help in finding employment.
–



The 2015-16 year amounted to several rebuilding seasons across University of Central Florida Athletics.
Six of the new head coaches brought on to UCF Football, Women’s Basketball, Men’s Basketball, Men’s Tennis, Women’s Tennis, and Baseball all skipped the uphill climb to victory with strong coaching debuts.
UCF Football head coach Scott Frost opened 38-0 versus SC State with a team that previously went 0-12 in the 2015-16 season. Frost brought the Knights to the AutoNation Cure Bowl after finishing the regular season 6-6. The Black and Gold let only a few games slip from their grasp due to second half play – games that would’ve put the Knights several wins above the line.
Men’s Basketball had coach Johhny Dawkins took over for Donny Jones and presented a team that went 8-1 to start the season, losing only by 10 points to last years NCAA Champion – Villanova – in the run. Tacko Fall will break the UCF D1 single season record in rebounds under Johnny Dawkins, and, for the second time ever, UCF beat Memphis 72-57 on the court.
The Women’s Basketball team has improved to 17-9 thus far, a marked gain in performance from last year’s 7-23 finish and the previous year’s 9-21 close. The Knights currently hold opponents to just 56.0 points per game, which ranks 23rd in the nation. The Black and Gold continue to lead the league and rank 15th in the country with an average of 11.4 steals per contest.
UCF Men’s (6-1) and Women’s (8-1) Tennis opened the season with a 4-3 win against No. 23 Texas Tech and 5-2 victory against Flagler, respectively.
Head coach Greg Lovelady of the UCF Baseball team slammed Sienna with a 17-6 series opener, a 3-0 shut out the following game, and 7-2 victory to put the Knights at 3-0.
“The pitching staff was phenomenal all weekend,” Lovelady said on the series sweep. “Our strikeout to walk ratio was really impressive. When you pitch, you have a chance, and our guys did a great job of giving us a chance to win three games.”
The addition of UCF Director of Athletics Danny White has come with sweeping changes across all programs. Tailgating for basketball games now takes place, festivals ahead of football games, and a $25 million fundraising program intended to improve all sporting facilities is now taking place.
Stay tuned for more news on the improvement of the student section in football games.



