Shaun Anthony Ragasa is being charged with a second count of video voyeurism, according to UCF Police Chief Richard Beary.
Wednesday, Beary held a press conference where he discussed the charges brought against Ragasa.
“The second video… was taken on February 1 inside an off-campus private residence,” Beary said. “In that case it appears that Ragasa may have tampered with an air conditioning vent to gain access to shoot that video.”
Following the discovery of the first incident, detectives made contact with Ragasa at approximately 5:30 p.m. Feb. 8 inside the student union. Ragasa agreed to go with the detectives for questioning.
While Ragasa was being driven to the police station he appeared to be erasing a picture or video, according to the report. Ragasa’s phone was then confiscated by the detectives in an attempt to preserve evidence.
A second warrant has been filed since the discovery of new evidence, and according to Beary, there may be more to come.
“We are still working on the last one,” Beary said. The police chief also encouraged anyone who believes they are a victim of such a crime to come forward.
“If someone thinks they have been a victim, they need to contact us, and we will take that case from there,” Beary said.
Ragasa was released earlier this week on bond after the initial charge of video voyeurism. It is currently unclear whether the suspect will be allowed to attend classes at UCF while he is accused of a felony.
Stay tuned for further updates on this story.



The WWE NXT weekly TV show will tape on Wednesday, February 22nd at The Venue at UCF behind CFE Arena.
UCF students will receive a discount on tickets and the first 200 students will receive a souvenir to go along with the ticket.
“We are currently offering $10 tickets for UCF students. Between Monday and Tuesday of next week, the first 200 students who purchase a $10 ticket will receive a WWE souvenir” said Andrew Heinz, marketing manager for WWE.
Event information:



University of Central Florida sudent Josh Winograd thought of a unique way to raise money for Children’s Miracle Network by serving students on campus as the ‘Love Doctor’ on Valentine’s Day.
Winograd thought of the idea in his push to raise money in UCF’s Knight-Thon dance marathon – an annual 24-hour dancing marathon that takes place in CFE Arena as a way to meet fundraising goals set each year by Knight-Thon for CMN.
“I saw a fun opportunity to get into the Valentine’s Day spirit and raise money for the kids of Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals,” said Winograd.
“I was completely blown away with how many students embraced my idea and actually came to me for advice!”
Last time around, Knight-Thon gathered one million in donations for Children’s Miracle Network. 
That weekend, UCF shattered its $820K record, raising $1,001,678.20 for charity. For 20 hours 1,500 people danced inside CFE Arena.
After earning the title of the 8th institution ever to raise more than a million dollars, Knight-Thon set a new goal of $1,200,000 with a theme reveal in the Student Union in September.

Winograd has been a long-time participant in Knight-Thon, in his fourth year to be exact, having run for Homecoming King in Fall 2016 in the meantime and earning the title of Mr. Knight Thon at last year’s pageant. 
The student currently double-majors at UCF in Political Science Pre-Law and Environmental Studies with Burnett Honors College.
Winograd’s Knight-Thon fundraising page can be found above.



