University of Central Florida alumnus Shaquem Griffin became part of a set Nike NFL ads released this week.
Griffin’s black-and-white advertisement includes a motivational one-liner from the former Knights linebacker: “Who would ever think a kid like me would go pro? Me.”
Griffin signed his first major endorsement deal with Nike in April prior to the NFL draft.
“The long-term vision of Nike and iconic message of ‘Just Do It’ fits perfectly into Shaquem’s brand and commitment to inspiring others,” said Exclusive Sports Group President Buddy Baker, who also represents Shaquill Griffin.
“Who would ever think a kid like me would go pro? Me.” – Shaquem Griffin’s new Nike ad #UCF pic.twitter.com/NBD6a6qqdX
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 4, 2018

Now a linebacker with the Seattle Seahawks, alongside Shaquill on defense, the rookie star is poised to start in his NFL debut.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF football.



The University of Central Florida improved to No. 19 after the Associated Press released their poll listings.
UCF began the season at No. 21, entering undefeated. A conference opener and blowout against the University of Connecticut Thursday night moved the Knights up comfortably in every stat.
Movement among the Top 25 includes an upset for No. 23 Texas from Maryland 29-34, a loss for No. 6 Washington to No. 9 Auburn, and win for No. 12 Notre Dame against No. 14 Michigan. Humiliating defeats to No. 8 Miami and No. 19 Florida State came at the hands of No. 25 LSU and No. 20 Virginia Tech.
Miami dropped from the 8 spot to 22, below where UCF began last week. Florida State dropped from the list.
UCF plays SC State Saturday night at home in Spectrum Stadium. The series holds at 2-0 in favor of UCF. SCS suffered a 38-0 defeat in Orlando in 2016.
Thursday night:
The University of Central Florida was firing on all cylinders Thursday night against the UConn Huskies in the season opener.
The Otis Anderson, McKenzie Milton, and Gave Davis trio drove the Knights downfield at a pace of two touchdowns a quarter.
UConn quarterback David Pindell made Defensive Coordinator Randy Shannon work to hold the Huskies to two touchdowns. Pindell had hot streak rushing plays that moved the drive, however, inconsistency prevented those plays from turning into points on the board.
The Knights held their first few scoring drives to under one minute thirty seconds, exactly what UCF Athletics envisioned for their 2018 season under new head coach Josh Heupel.
Second string quarterback Darriel Mack scored his first career touchdown as a QB in the fourth quarter as relief for Milton. Mack made an explosive 70-yard touchdown run to make it an 8-touchdown game.
UCF plays at Spectrum Stadium Saturday, September 8 at 6 p.m. EST.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football.
Photo courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



