The United States Senate race in Florida was going to be closely contested and one of the country’s biggest tossups. Governor Rick Scott would claim victory Tuesday night.
Bill Nelson was the Senate incumbent and Rick Scott served as Governor of Florida for two terms (the maximum allowable) before running for Senate. Nelson held a small lead through 50% of votes reported in before Scott took over with 50.1% majority. The margin widened to 0.8% in favor of Scott.
The split would be 50.4% to 49.6%.
An issue with electronic votes in Broward County forced election officials to hand-deliver flash drives with the voter results late in the night.
Read more about UCF students and the midterm elections:
Election 2018: UCF students take final stand before the midterms




The Florida governor’s race held on to the wire from start to finish and it would be Ron DeSantis who claimed one of the United State’s biggest tossups. DeSantis served as a former U.S. Representative for Florida’s 6th congressional district.
Gillum gave a concession speech to a crowd immediately following the news reported by multiple media outlets.
The split would be 49.9% to 48.9%.
Florida Governor Rick Scott served in the position for two terms (the maximum allowable) as DeSantis and Gillum then campaigned to take Scott’s place. Gillum held a small lead before DeSantis took over the majority after 50% of votes were reported in across the state. As the final votes were tallied, DeSantis broke away from Gillum to claim victory with a margin of 1%.
Read more about UCF students and the midterm elections:
Election 2018: UCF students take final stand before the midterms




University of Central Florida liberals and conservatives are making a final effort to appeal to students on campus before the polls close tonight.
Outside the student union the UCF College Republicans have set up a Socialism kills banner depicting how many people have died under socialist systems.

Across from the College Republicans, March for Our Lives is giving away shirts and information about Amendment 4, also known as the voting restoration amendment.

“This amendment restores the voting rights of Floridians with felony convictions after they complete all terms of their sentence including parole or probation, according to Florida’s Division of Elections website. “The amendment would not apply to those convicted of murder or sexual offenses, who would continue to be permanently barred from voting unless the Governor and Cabinet vote to restore their voting rights on a case by case basis.”
National ice cream company, Ben& Jerry’s, is also on campus today giving away free ice cream to students while telling them to support amendment 4. 

Knight News will be covering tonight’s election. Stay tuned for updates.



“This is what democracy looks like,” shouted the large crowd that Sanders led over to University Of Central Florida’s Live Oaks Event Center where early voting is taking place.
Sanders, running for reelection into the Senate, was at UCF today speaking in support of Democratic gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum.
“If the young generation comes out and votes at the same level as other people in this country, you’re going to transform Florida and transform America. Right now we have the opportunity to cast a few hundred votes for Andrew” Sanders said.
Carlos Guillermo Smith, Florida districts state representative, was also at the CFE Arena.
“We need to vote right now,”Guillermo Smith said to rally the crowd as he proceeded to walk alongside Sanders to the early voting center on campus.
Students on campus certainly seemed to be feeling the “bern.” Christaine Butin, a UCF student, who attended the march said “it’s in the best interest that young people do their research thoroughly to know what they want in a candidate.”
The Live Oak Event Center at Ferrell Commons, will hold early voting through Sunday, November 4th from 9 am through 7 pm.
Mayor Gillum, will be campaigning on UCF’s main campus this weekend with several high profile democrats including Valarie Jarrett and Common. 



