UCF students got a chance to see for themselves what it’s like to be a meteorologist and watched a live weather cast by Spectrum News 13’s Mallory Nicholls.
Five student journalists and meteorologists from the College of Sciences toured the Spectrum News 13 newsroom and weather center, Sept. 20, at an event for aspiring women meteorologists. Students were given the chance to try out the green screen and give a mock weather report.
“It’s an exciting profession and a lot of fun,” News Director Susan D’Astoli said.
Meteorologists Nicholls and Maureen McCann explained what their day is like and the tasks they must do.
“You’re taking complex scientific information and then you’re breaking it down to what the viewers want to know,” McCann said.
The meteorologists’ work involves much more than just presenting the weather. They must work on graphics, make their own forecasts and write the script for closed captioning, Nicholls said.
Not all the students present were journalism majors. Priscilla Samayoa, engineering and math double major, said she was interested in meteorology.
“I was thinking about doing something more behind the scenes because I’m super camera shy,” Samayoa said.
The experience was exciting especially for students who have never been in a newsroom before.
“It’s definitely super interesting to me and I’m more intrigued about it,” Samayoa said.
Part of the weather cast is pre-recorded in a normal day, but when there’s a major weather event, meteorologists are live and constantly updating, Nicholls said.
“These folks [are here] during an event like [Hurricane Maria, Irma],” D’Astoli said. “We are here 24 hours, we all know what we look like in our pajamas because we all slept here during the hurricane [Irma].”
McCann and Nicholls talked about their challenges and struggles to get to the successful career they have now. Both had to start in smaller markets before coming to Orlando.
McCann said she can relate to UCF students because she is a fellow student. She is currently working on her master’s degree in emergency and crisis management at UCF.
Spectrum News 13 offers internship opportunities for students.
“We actually put [interns] to work,” Nicholls said.



The main bookstore at the University of Central Florida will see a second, larger renovation completed in early October.
The UCF apparel area (right through the door) has been stripped down to concrete and drywall. The textbooks and school supply areas have been moved to a reorganized part of the bookstore where checkout counters have been moved from the middle of the room to the wall.
The bookstore cafe also saw changes this semester with the opening of Foxtail Coffee offering a dramatic improvement over the older hangout location.
Foxtail Coffee Opens in the UCF Bookstore, giving students a visual overhaul to the hangout spot

The bookstore at Knights Plaza may see renovations after this project sees completion.
“There are no plans to remodel the Barnes and Noble at Knights Plaza,” said Communications Coordinator Anthony Moore.
“Currently, the University is in the final phases of a remodel at the main bookstore in the John T. Washington Center. Upon completion of that project, the University may consider small enhancements to the Knights Plaza facility.”



