By: Kinzie Hicks
After the latest stunt pulled last Wednesday, February 28, 2018, in the business building one many students are left feeling concerned about their safety on campus. 
A UCF student said to be sigma pi, walked into a classroom he was not enrolled in, in the business building. Shortly into the class, he pulled a “Lebron James move” by throwing baby formula into the air and running out of the room. Causing the building to be evacuated and shut down for hours. 
That very next day reporter Kinzie Hicks investigated to see just how easy it is to walk in on and sit through an entire class that you’re not enrolled in. 
Hicks was able to sit through an hour and fifteen-minute lecture without being asked by a professor or students if she even attends that class on a daily basis. 
Arianna Pantin, a UCF student who has all her classes in the business buildings say it’s concerning to her that anyone off the street can walk into a class and not be noticed. 
“It’s crazy to me we pay a lot of money for these classes and if anyone can walk into them then why are we paying all this money for these classes to begin with,” says Pantin.
Hicks reached out to the police for an interview on what the limitations are for the public once they reach University buildings. They had no comment. 
“If the police aren’t willing to comment on the safety of the buildings and the classrooms from outside intruders then how are they supposed to make us feel safe,” says Pantin.
There have been three incidents in business building one just this year and five in business building two. 
This number is already equivalent to the incidents reported in both these buildings back in 2017.
“That’s just absurd especially with all the school shootings and everything that we have going on in just this year alone,” says Pantin. “I don’t feel very safe about that because anyone can walk in off the street and do anything.”



UCF Student Government Association presidential elections start tomorrow, but just a few weeks ago candidates Joshua Bolona and Jad Shalhoub experienced a bump in the road.
Their campaign rivals, SGA Chief of Staff Brad Keuhler and Diveristy Chair Breon Clark, filed multiple complaints with the SGA Election’s Board, accusing Bolona’s ticket of a series of campaign violations. Hearings were scheduled, including one on Feb. 28, in order to decide the best course of action.
Knight News requested information regarding the hearing’s time and location in order to relay the board’s findings to the public, as well as to ensure fairness to both the accuser and accused in the process. Florida law is very supportive of complete transparency, and as such, media and the public had the legal right to attend the meeting, according to Knight News’ lawyers. Despite this fact, Knight News was told by Supervisor of Elections Ashlyn Sanchez that the hearing was closed, and that media would not be in attendance.
Open Election Violation hearings are essential, and other Florida universities, like University of Florida, have open SGA violation hearings. Back in 2016, Jacob Milich’s UCF SGA Presidential Campaign was suspended after a closed hearing. Milich claimed his conservative views sparked the conflict and that he was unfairly suspended; however, because the meeting was closed, public disclosure and oversight became impossible.
After being denied access to last week’s hearing, Knight News’ legal team went to work. It did not take long, however, for UCF’s attorneys to deny that Knight News ever requested access to the hearing at all, an entirely false allegation. UCF’s Deputy General Counsel Youndy Cook stated in email correspondence with Knight News’ attorney Justin Hemlepp that “Knight News did not seek entry to an election violation preceding”.
It’s not clear who gave Cook the incorrect information. Neither Sanchez nor current SGA President Nick Larkins returned Knight News’ request for comments.
Despite this denial, SGA Attorney General Anthony Minute, realizing the threat of a lawsuit from Knight News against anyone causing the meeting to be closed, released a formal memorandum containing the following statement: “I am directing the SGA Election Commission to maintain open Violation Hearings moving forward. Furthermore, I will be urging the Election Commission to protect the education records of students in every way necessary.”
The full statement can be found here.
Knight News was able to contact Josh Bolona, who stated that despite the closure of the hearing, his campaign had complete trust in the Election Board. Bolona maintained his ticket’s innocence in regards to the violations, and stated that he trusted the Board would come to the same conclusion.
Upon the resolving of the hearing, Josh and Jad were allowed to remain on the ballots, although they faced some restrictions on campaigning after the board found minor violations.
Brad and Breon did not respond when asked for a statement regarding the situation.



University of Central Florida alumnus Shaquem Griffin currently leads linebackers for the 40-yard dash in the NFL Combine.
The 40-yard dash is the second of seven events.
Griffin came to shine and unsurprisingly has an early start. The prospect put up 20 reps in the Bench Press workout to a cheering crowd.
Griffin finished his collegiate career with Defensive Player of the Year, the Senior Class award, the Jason Witten Collegiate Man of the Year Award, among many others awards with the Knights.
Follow along to see Griffin’s NFL Combine results this week.
Guess Y’all Was A Little Off With The 4.6 ‍♂️ !!! #AgainstAllOdds @Shaquemgriffin
— Shaquill Griffin (@ShaquillG) March 4, 2018

Breaking: UCF LB Shaquem Griffin Invited to the NFL Combine




