University of Central Florida fans and alumni had their bus trip to Jacksonville canceled once seeing a steady stream of threats from “an ugly side of college football.”
Sadly its more than just that one. If we have to call this off(and we aren’t right now) it will be for safety. People have started sharing our pick up and drop off info. We have some children coming. We don’t need them throwing glass beer bottles at us.
— UCF Knights Watch (@UCFKnightsWatch) October 24, 2018

Event organizer and Orlando lawyer Chad Barr pulled the plug on the trip Thursday after viewing the threats made toward them online and then speaking with the UCF Jacksonville Alumni Chapter, as some attendees planned to bring their children.
“The Jacksonville Alumni Chapter strongly suggested we reconsider. And they know their city better than us,” Charles, who also helped to organize the event, said to Knight News.
“We shouldn’t be scared to go to a college game day set wearing our school colors.”
A few of the posts, from a minority of Florida and Georgia fans, were shared within the fan group:


Barr’s post to the event:
It’s with great sadness that we announce the cancellation of the buses to Jacksonville. We appreciate UCF for their support of this adventure. We want to thank all the people who signed up to go. Most of all we want to thank all the UCF students, fans and alumni who generously gave enough money for 2 buses in the last 3 days. The UCF community is strong and united and we found this out first hand.
When we started this, the intention was to have fun with fellow Knights on a trip to remember while respectfully showing up to Gameday to promote the UCF brand. We believe in what Danny White has said and we were going to support him and UCF.
When we planned this, we expected some to support us, some to scoff and some to tease us, but in the last few days we have seen the ugly side of college sports. A select few of the fans of the teams represented in Jacksonville have openly and credibly threatened to meet us, pepper spray, throw glass beer bottles, steal flags, steal signs and overall physically attack us on sight. We have also been advised by local Jacksonville residents and authorities that there is some risk associated with being in this area both during the wee hours of the morning and based on the size of crowds that attend this event. We have looked into security but the cost is prohibitive for the 12-14 hour excursion and I simply don’t think its even worth having a security detail for a fun-natured college football excursion.
Some might say that these are just “keyboard warriors” and not to take them seriously but we have older folks and small children committed to make this trek. It simply is not worth it.
I want to be clear that those select few that have threatened to harm us or wish ill will towards us because we dare to enter their “territory” to represent our beloved school on a national television show do not represent all the fans of those teams, nor those 2 schools, but we must still be vigilant, protect our own, and err on the side of caution.
For those that donated, we will promptly refund your money. There will still be people coming up as well as people from the Jacksonville alumni group, but unfortunately, it won’t be organized by us. To anyone still going, we know you will represent UCF well.
We have not bowed down, and we do not consider this a defeat, but there is a time and a place and everything. I regret that college football has come to this, but rest assured, that I in conjunction with UCF Knights Watch will continue to build the UCF brand through new and unique ways. WE are UCF! #ChargeOn

Original story:
A group of UCF fans and alumni will bus to College GameDay in Jacksonville




Orlando lawyer Chad Barr will be leading an effort to bus dozens of fans and alumni to College GameDay in Jacksonville.
The Facebook group “UCF to the CFP,” along with fan club “Knight Watch,” organized two buses “to show what UCF Nation is all about.” A short drive to Jacksonville built a quick roster of those planning to attend.
Alumni and former players made generous donations to fund the caravan, either with cash or by seats. UCF Athletics offered to make and donate props and signs, similar to what was broadcasted last Saturday in Pullman (a flashing UCF sign), according to the group.
Coincidentally, College GameDay host Kirk Herbstreit had a hot take last Saturday on the Knights that motivated the UCF-faithful to get a message across: that they won’t back down to anyone while on the path to playoff consideration.
“Why are we focusing on just UCF when it comes to the Power 5 because I think there are other teams out there that are as deserving or more deserving?” Herbstreit said during the GameDay segment.
“You need to play somebody in order to be rewarded. UCF, you need to not just be worried about being undefeated and trying to get in the top four, you need to look behind you at teams like Utah State, Appalachian State, Fresno State. These teams, on paper, which is what you want to look at a lot of times, are better than UCF and more deserving than UCF.”
A broader ambition by those who are leading the event is to model fan activity close to what Orlando City soccer has with Ruckus Club. The atmosphere would change UCF’s presence at home and even away games, with recruits, fans, students, and alumni enjoying events surrounding the game.
While those fans don’t plan on attending the actual game, the message they will send will hopefully persuade an audience to give the Knights a chance, the group said.
ESPN will broadcast the opinion segment before the No. 9 Florida versus No. 7 Georgia matchup on Saturday.
UCF Director of Athletics Danny White penned an invitation to ESPN to ‘help fix a broken model,’ referring to the Power 5 sympathetic and their opinion of the disenfranchised half of college football.
UCF AD Danny White Invites College GameDay to “join us” in fixing a “broken model”




On Tuesday morning, the University of Central Florida Police Department swore in five new officers, some UCF alumna, while promoting four officers.
Four new hires come from the classroom and will serve as patrol officers, paired with other patrol officers to get hands-on experience in the field:

Commander Darnell Hill, the fifth new hire who will oversee the patrol division, will join UCF PD after 26 years of service with the Orlando Police Department.
The four UCF PD members who were promoted were:
Police chief Carl Metzger conducted his first ceremony as chief. Metzger took over for Richard Beary after the former chief retired Spring 2018.
“Personnel play a critical role in supporting my goals for UCFPD’s continued press toward professionalism, progress, and innovation,” Chief Metzger said.
“I’m excited about the future contributions our new hires will make, and I’m grateful for the continued dedication of those who were promoted. Their collective experience, diversity and enthusiasm will strengthen the department and enhance our ability to serve the UCF community.”

Photos: UCF News & Information



