The University of Central Florida Police Department sent out an alert to students early Monday morning about a suspicious incident surrounding the Sigma Chi parking lot.
A student left the Sigma Chi fraternity house to retrieve something from his car when he encountered what he thought was a friend needing help, according to the police report.
The suspect then pushed the victim, causing him to fall and hit his head on the ground, sustaining minor injuries. The student got up and approached a second time, the police report states, and was held up with a small knife before attempting the grab the weapon with one hand and the suspect’s arm with another. The hand used to hold back the weapon sustained minor injuries and the student was pushed back on the ground a second time.
The suspect ran northwest into a hole in the fence and was not seen again, according to the police report. Officers set up crime scene tape around the parking lot and searched for the suspect but no results would be found.
UCF Police describes the suspect as approximately six foot tall, black male, dark complexion, with short black wavy hair, wearing a white shirt, dark pants, and dark shoes.
“It’s important to remain vigilant and never hesitate to contact police if you see activity that seems suspicious,” a UCF Alert said.
“UCFPD can be reached 24/7 by calling 911 in an emergency or 407-823-5555 for non-emergencies.
Information also can be reported to law enforcement anonymously by calling Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS.”



UCF’s renowned Cyber Defense Team outplayed 65 other schools competing across seven states in the Department of Energy’s CyberForce National Competition.
The UCF team spent several weeks designing and building a corporate network that was built to withstand professional hackers attempting to compromise the network. Coach Tom Nedorost, Austin Sturm, Andrew Hughes, Matthew St. Hubin, David Maria, Michael Roberts, and Martin Roberts designed the network least susceptible to attacks.
“The energy infrastructure we depend upon as a nation is under the constant threat of cyber attacks,” said U.S. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry in a news release.
“As the sector-specific agency for cybersecurity in the energy sector, guarding against those threats is my highest priority, and this competition is becoming a key element in developing our next generation of cyber warriors.”
UCF competed at Argonne National Laboratory in Argonne, Illinois, and scored the most overall points from all the labs.
Photo: UCF News & Information.
The University of Central Florida earns title of ‘winningest’ National Collegiate Cyber Defense Champion




