Students have a fun and rewarding experience raising puppies through a UCF student organization that helps train future assistance dogs.
The club — Service-Dog Training and Education Program (STEP) — was founded in 2016 by a student who had firsthand experience raising a puppy. STEP works with Canine Companions for Independence (CCI), a non-profit organization, that brings them puppies to be raised and trained by student volunteers, STEP President Kayla McCauley said.
“Our role is advocating for the organization, kind of telling people what we do, what service animals are and then bringing people in to puppy raise… and share our mission and what we do,” McCauley said.
Student puppy raisers raise their puppy for 16-18 months and are responsible for providing all necessary care for it, McCauley said. Puppy raisers provide basic command training, teaching the puppies 30 commands. When students are done with their training, the dogs are returned to the organization for professional training and preparation for their careers as assistance dogs, McCauley said.
“We’re like kindergarten through high school, then [ the puppies] go to college, pick their major and hopefully graduate, some of them drop out — like this isn’t for them,” said Melisa Paul, STEP treasurer and an integrated business major.
CCI trains 5 different types of assistance dogs: hearing dogs, facility dogs, regular service or disability assistance dogs and a new category for PTSD veterans, McCauley said.
McCauley is raising her second puppy, Hesston, who is eight-months-old.
“Everyone who is a puppy raiser, we have like our own little specific trainings where we socialize and just kind of hangout, we’re working on doing our training together,” McCauley said.
Any student can join the club by attending their meetings and events. They have three levels of membership, according to their website. To become a puppy raiser, you’ll need to have completed one year at UCF, attend puppy sitter training through the club and gain approval from CCI to puppy raise.
Paul started raising her first puppy, Tosh, this June.
“I love it — he’s’ my first, so everything is new to me. It’s great seeing how much they grow each month; how much they learn. I feel like I just got him a few days ago and it’s been a month and suddenly he knows a couple of commands. It’s really good it’s rewarding like really fun,” Paul said.
Do you have a dog (or dogs) that deserves to be Dog of the Week? Let us know and they might be featured next!



UCF Late Knights’ new executive board plans to expand and offer students leadership experience, according to Late Knights’ Executive Director Nikolay Lendman.
Late Knights is a monthly event, which works with the Office of Student Involvement to host alcohol-free events on campus every month, providing students a place to have fun and connect with peers.
“We really provide a place that’s free of pressure from alcohol for students to come and enjoy their time here on campus,” Lendman said.
Late knights provide food and live music, in addition to fun activities at their events. Their upcoming event, Summer Showdown, will be held July 21 at 9 p.m. in the Academic Village Courtyard.
Late Knights created a council for students to gain leadership experience by working with their e-board members throughout the school year.
“Each of our executive board members will be receiving a mentee, in hopes that they can then step up into the executive board position during the next term,” Lendman said.
Students interested in participating can do so by applying to join the council through knight connect, this August. There will be six available positions, one per e-board member.
Late Knights plan to host an event during family weekend and partner with UCF Homecoming to add elements to their fireworks show, Lendman said. Late Knights also offers registered student organizations the opportunity to promote themselves by tabling at their events.
“This year Late Knights’ event during Pegasus Palooza will be bigger than ever before. Be sure to follow our social media for updates on all our events,” Lendman said.



