University of Central Florida students, employees, and community members will have the opportunity to cast their ballots at a new, convenient location ahead of the general election: the Live Oak Center on the main campus (by Garage B).
The UCF Student Government Association, in partnership with the Orange County Supervisor of Elections Bill Cowles, established the voting center to run from Monday, October 22 through Sunday, November 4, before the general election on November 6.
“Engaging in our democracy is critical to becoming an educated, impactful citizen. Removing barriers for our students and staff is the right thing to do,” said UCF President Dale Whittaker on the campus voting center.
Registered voters in Orange County may cast their ballot. You can check your voter status here.
The Live Oak Event Center, at Ferrell Commons near Garage B, will be open for 14 days of early voting from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., UCF said, and parking spaces will be set aside and marked with signage in Garage B, which is across Gemini Boulevard from the Recreation and Wellness Center.
In July, U.S. District Judge Mark Walker ruled that a 2014 state-imposed ban of on-campus early voting sites was unconstitutional. Walker made a scathing decision against what appeared to be a measure to stop younger voters from casting ballots.
“Our right to vote is the most powerful tool we have to shape our collective future,” SGA President Josh Boloña said.
“The Student Government Association seeks to bring awareness and place special emphasis on the importance of voting. The goal of our “Charge Your Vote” campaign is to engage all UCF students, faculty and staff in the civic and electoral process.”



Blake Bortles and the Jaguars shocked the NFL world Sunday afternoon with a definitive victory over the New England Patriots and Tom Brady.
Bortles threw for 377 yards and four touchdowns in the 31-20 game even without running back Leonard Fournette towing the team score. It was undoubtedly one of the best of his pro career.
In the 2017 postseason, the Jaguars hosted New England in the AFC Title game and had their #Duuuval hype machine shut down after Brady edged a 24-20 score. 
Brady threw a 24/35 completion rating for 234 yards and two touchdowns Sunday with trouble connecting on line drives down the field thanks to the Jacksonville defense. While only recording two sacks and three tackles, the Jaguars’ secondary pressured the Super Bowl champion throughout the matchup. 
The Jaguars made it to their first postseason birth in more than ten years in 2017 and had a fighting chance at making it to their first-ever Super Bowl. Only one score away in the AFC Championship (already with a win against New England that August), the new AFC-favorite just might claim round two.
Jacksonville (2-0 regular season) hosts the Titans Sunday at 1 p.m.



The University of Central Florida Board of Trustees and UCF Facilities Planning & Construction anticipate the fiscal year 2019-2023 to include $566 million in new projects.
The fiscal year 2014-2018 concluded with 675,060-gross-square-feet in new construction over 808 completed projects and 367 active projects.
The mad dash to create and renovate brought about the Research 1 building, Trevour Colbourn Hall, District Energy Plant IV, HVAC renovations, improvements to the Reflecting Pond, and the Kenneth G. Dixon Athletic Village, which includes expansion of the baseball stadium, Garvy Nutrition Center, Spectrum Stadium cabanas, Roth Athletics Building, Wayne-Densch Center for Student-Athletes, and much more.
The next four years have yet to see dozens of projects still in the planning phase such as the UCF Hotel and Conference Center, Student Union expansion, John C. Hitt Library expansion, to name a few. Curated from UCF Facilities Planning and Construction are:
Main Campus
Academic Health Sciences Center
Athletics






The popular taco spot Gringos Locos has finally opened on UCF’s campus after experiencing multiple delays.
The new location on UCF’s campus is located to the left of the CFE Arena, in line with Subway and Dunkin’ Doughnuts. Gringos Locos also serves alcohol in addition to its wide array of Mexican food, including a variety of beer brands along with flavors of sangria.
Gringos has a location in Downtown Orlando that is extremely popular amongst college students, offering anything from street tacos and guacamole to burritos and chimichangas. Now, finally, the long drive has been eliminated.
Check out their menu here.
Gringos Locos coming on campus to UCF




A highly anticipated matchup, Florida Atlantic and their head coach Lane Kiffin draw no expectations when they travel from Boca Raton to Orlando for Friday’s game.
Head coaches from both teams favor offensive mindsets and both have excelled in overpowering their team peers. Kiffin has followed along with UCF’s championship season and – while favoring Alabama as the true national champ – across the board praised the players who brought the team to Atlanta, quarterback McKenzie Milton especially.
“This is obviously a tough guy to contain and a tough offense,” Kiffin said of Milton, the Palm Beach Post reports.
“They obviously go extremely fast and he’s a really special player. He made so many plays down the stretch and some tight games where he made some huge plays. They’re really good all around.”
UCF (2-0) has gone fifteen games without seeing a loss and shows no signs of stopping. Head coach Josh Heupel is in the process of filling in areas that saw key players leave for the NFL such as Mike Hughes, Tre Quan Smith, Jordan Akins, and more. Milton, however, remains in the stellar condition he built up in 2017.
Despite three interceptions in the SC State matchup – what the team dismissed as an off game – Milton still contributed a touchdown and 250 yards. Adrian Killins and Otis Anderson continue to be a potent mix on the field. The offensive line has yet to allow Milton to be sacked or tackled – a point of pride so far during both weekly press conferences.
“Height, weight, speed, the players, the size of the guys,” Kiffin said. “It’s like playing an SEC opponent.”
UCF as an “SEC Caliber team” makes sense for the SEC East. The conference West? Maybe. The post-season will say more. Either way, Kiffin and crew will be up against a team hot on their feet and a home fan base that line up in the thousands within the opening minutes of ticket sales.
The game will likely sell out.
Join us in covering UCF and FAU at Spectrum Stadium Friday at 7 p.m.
Photo: FAU Athletics



The University of Central Florida improved to No. 16 after Hurricane Florence scrapped one of two Power 5 opponents on the Knights’ schedule.
The 2017 college football playoff committee made it a point to scrutinize the Knight’s schedule after the Georgia Tech game was lost to Hurricane Irma. While UNC surely would have been tested against UCF, the latter seems to be passive in context, given Florence’s path to the Carolinas. The Tar Heels (0-2) did not have the strength of a Power 5 opponent more than FAU would challenge UCF this season.
Plans to reschedule the game did not come to fruition, according to UCF Athletics. The only bye week UCF has comes before they host Temple Thursday night the following week.
UCF will face the Owls (2-1) on Friday in a highly anticipated in-state matchup.
Breaking: UCF versus UNC Canceled Ahead of Hurricane Florence




