UCF quarterback McKenzie Milton told offensive lineman Jordan Johnson he was able to walk over the weekend for the first time following a gruesome knee injury, ESPN reported Monday.
“I called him (on FaceTime) to see how he was doing, and he was letting us know that he’s there for us,” Johnson said to ESPN.
“He wants to see us succeed, so we’re out there playing for McKenzie. We want to go out there and win for him. It was all good vibes. I told him it was good to see him smiling. He said that he got to walk the other day, and he never appreciated walking as much.”
McKenzie is still recovering at Tampa General Hospital following a successful surgery to repair tendons and a ruptured artery.
One of the first questions McKenzie asked Saturday night went to his parents: the final score of the rivalry USF game which finished 38-10. A perfect season. Head coach Josh Heupel arrived after that game to check on Milton, updating media on Monday and sharing that the quarterback has been really positive.
“He’s been really positive. The first thing he asked about before I even got up there was the game. He wanted to know what the final of the game was,” Heupel said at the Monday morning press conference.
“Then you talk to him, and his next thought is turning to this ball game and his teammates. He cares deeply about what he and the team have put into this season and expects us to go out and play in a great way. His thoughts will be with us on game day certainly.”
Milton’s mom posted on Twitter to advocate for Darriel Mack, Jr. who is also McKenzie’s roommate.
Fall in Love with DJ MAC he is KZ Roomate and loyal teammate and no jealousy only brothers ! Together they win
— TeresaMilton (@milton6teresa) November 26, 2018

I want to Make sure I didn’t confuse anyone , I know Knight Nation is embracing D.J. Mac and his smile is so contagious
My husband said the best thing was his first win at East Carolina. And in the turmoil of Friday was amazing ! Let’s get DJ his 3rd win on Sat.
— TeresaMilton (@milton6teresa) November 26, 2018

The surgery at Tampa General Hospital was a success and another surgery will be performed in one month. Recovery is likely to take 9-12 months, according to doctors familiar with NFL injuries that posted on social media.
Whether or not Milton has played his last down, none can argue against such a humble and positive attitude from one of UCF Football’s greatest-ever.
If the star quarterback walked on crutches on Saturday for the AAC Championship, Spectrum Stadium would erupt into applause, and McKenzie would flash that familiar smile.
Milton Family Updates Knight Nation on McKenzie’s Status




The Associated Press and Coaches Poll moved the University of Central Florida to No. 7 after rivalry week and a 38-10 win over USF on the road.
Quarterback McKenzie Milton suffered a devasting knee injury in the second quarter which led to Darriel Mack, Jr. taking the helm and finishing what Milton started. The score was 7-0 at the time of injury, and under pressure, Mack, Jr. ensured that four more touchdowns and a field goal with the help of Greg McCrae (3 TD) made the scoreboard.
#BREAKING: UCF jumps up 2 spots to No. 7 in the Coaches Poll — ahead of Michigan! pic.twitter.com/nqbWAjcBSZ
— UCF Knight News | OHANA (@UCFKnightNews) November 25, 2018

Ohio State moved up to No. 6 after handling No. 4 Michigan 62-39. Oklahoma moved up one spot, due to Michigan’s fall, after narrowly defeating No. 13 West Virginia 59-56.
Michigan held a spot in the top-four and the College Football Playoffs. Now the Knights have a better shot at stealing the fourth CFP spot than the Wolverines.
The best-case scenario for UCF involves Ohio State and Oklahoma losing on Saturday, as well as Georgia to Alabama and Memphis to UCF (by a wide margin). Theoretically, the Knights couldn’t be left out of the playoffs. 
Ohio State will play No. 19 Northwestern on Saturday and Oklahoma will play No. 14 Texas.
UCF Knights Defeat USF, Make History With Back-to-Back Perfect Seasons




