As The University of Central Florida Knights continue to take charge on the field, one fan has taken his own charge in the stands.
Anthony Allan, a freshman civil engineering major, has become a campus celebrity after receiving national attention during UCF’s game versus Florida Atlantic University.
That day was supposed to be just another game day for Allan and his friends. But fate would soon make Allan a star.
“The camera guy he was looking around because it was one of those things where everyone is dancing and looking for people to put in the video,” Allan said. “I thought to myself I’m just going to stare into this camera and maybe he’ll see me.”
Allan’s hunch was correct and soon he found himself locking eyes with the camera man.
“I’m staring at the camera and he sees me and he puts up his finger and he’s like wait a minute wait a minute I’ll put you on,” Allan said.
Throughout the game, Allan continued to stare without emotion at the camera, solidifying his place in Knights history. “Once it happened the first time I kinda had to do it for the rest of the game,” he said.
Knight fans from across the country were instantly drawn to Allans emotionless stare.
Twitter user @Vibin Ibis said, “Stone cold Gold”.
Once Allan became a star he knew he had to outdo himself at UCF’s next home game versus Southern Methodist University.
During the game, Allan, with the help of several friends, could be seen throughout the stadium via shirts, socks and even jumbo head cutouts.
As the game continued, Allan was used as a distraction when the SMU kicker attempted a field goal. The jumbo screen showed an image of Allan’s face with lazers shooting out of his eyes. Allan and the the Experiential Innovation Team in UCF’s Athletics department recorded this prior to the game. While the distraction didn’t work and SMU scored, UCF fans had a good laugh and the legend of the staring kid grew.
Since then, Allan has been recognized all over campus.
“People have been coming up to me asking for pictures and being like, ‘you’re the kid’ and I’m like, ‘yeah I’m the kid,’ ” Allan said.
If you see Allan on campus, feel free to come up to him and say hello and call him anything you’d like, he isn’t picky. “I get the kid with the face a lot or Stoic knight. Any one of those works for me,” he said.
Allan said he has big plans for UCF’s next home game versus Temple on Thursday Nov. 1.



By: Zachary Lange
Hundreds of kids gathered Sunday afternoon at the University of Central Florida’s Greek Park to participate in the annual Trick or Treat on Greek Street (TOTOGS).
Pop-up tents lined Greek Park Drive as various sororities and fraternities handed out free candy and participated in activities with princesses, ghosts and characters from the popular video game “Fortnite.”
Superhero movie releases such as “Avengers: Infinity War” and “Black Panther” were also major sources of inspiration for costumes. The most popular costume on Greek Park was Marvel’s Iron Man.
The event, which was free to attend for all ages, was aimed at providing all children a safe place to trick or treat.
About 100 kids from the Boys and Girls Clubs of Central Florida participated in TOTOGS. Service Director, Anna Dieuveuil, coordinates activities for kids ages 6-18 for the Boys and Girls Clubs’ Taft Branch, located in South Orlando.
“It’s something about being able to walk down and not have to worry about looking over your shoulder or being aware of wondering, Who is this person that’s giving me candy,” Dieuveuil said. “So it gives them a safe place, a safe alternative towards trick or treating.”
Junior nursing major Mackenzie Waring, who was the co-chairwoman of the event for her sorority, said she hoped the kids had a great time trick or treating. 
“Working with the Boys and Girls Clubs, it’s just something that I love,” Waring said. “I jumped on the opportunity to be involved.”
Waring’s sister and other co-chairwoman, Kelly Kealty, said the event made her remember fond memories of trick-or-treating as a kid.
“When you’re little it’s like your favorite time of the year,” said Kealty, senior health sciences major. “It’s really sad if your kids truly can’t do that.”
Between the pizza party, inflatable castle at Lake Claire, and free handfuls of candy, it was a perfect Sunday afternoon for a grade schooler!



