Steve Spurrier and Bobby Bowden have built up quite the rivalry over the years. These two haven’t agreed on much in their past.  With the help of UCF they did, however, finally agreed on one thing: UCF should be the National Champions.
Prior to the Peach Bowl Spurrier was quoted saying if UCF wins they should have a claim to The National Title.  After UCF’s victory, Spurrier doubled down on his statement.
“UCF is a darn good team, they’re the only undefeated team in the country and they beat the team [Auburn] that beat the teams [Georgia and Alabama] who played in the national championship game. Why shouldn’t they be national champions?,” according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Meanwhile, Bowden told the Omaha World-Herald: “I’ll be honest with you; they [UCF] deserve the national title in my opinion,” According to the Orlando Sentinel.
Both coaches competed for decades and haven’t come together on much if anything at all.  They were in the middle of college football’s biggest rivalry in the 90’s. For them to agree on UCF’s claim to the National Championship adds two more credible sources for the Knights’ argument.



UCF takes on the Cincinnati Bearcats tomorrow night at 7:00 P.M. You’ll want to arrive early for this game, UCF expects a large turnout considering all the “Hoopla” surrounding this game.
Cincinnati is ranked No. 12 in the nation and will be the toughest opponent the Knights have faced by a large margin.

The Bearcats are known for their defense, they rank 2 nationally in points allowed per game and opponent shooting percentage.  UCF ranks 3 in both of those statistics so expect this game to be a low scoring affair.
“They are such a physical team, they are relentless on the offensive boards, defensively they are one of the best teams in the nation, so those some of the things that present a challenge,” Dawkins spoke to the strengths of Cincinnati.
Offensively Cincinnati spreads the ball around quite nicely. They have 4 players who average double digits in scoring. They have lengthy wings all over the place. Besides Justin Jenifer, all their starters are above 6’6. This has led to them offensive rebounding the ball well.  They grab 13 offensive rebounds per game.  With the stifling defense we can expect from both teams, offensive rebounding will be crucial.  UCF doesn’t want to give Cincinnati extra opportunities.
Like most basketball games this game is going to come down to who can score the most points. UCF has struggled to score all year, due to the loss of B.J. Taylor. UCF fans are hopefully B.J. will return for this huge matchup at home. As of today, his return seems questionable.
“B.J. is getting better, he is day to day.  We will see where he is tomorrow.  We will have a workout today, and we will follow his lead and the trainers lead at that point,” Coach Dawkins explained.
With or without B.J. tomorrow night should be a great time for everyone involved.  The atmosphere at CFE should be electric.  UCF’s athletic department has a lot planned for the evening.  For details on the events click here.



A man from Daytona Beach was shot outside the Waffle House near the corner of Alafaya Tr. and E. Colonial Drive around 3 a.m. Monday morning, deputies said.
Herbert Johnson, 23, engaged in an argument inside the restaurant and was shot several times in the parking lot, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department. His body was found in some bushes near his vehicle.
Johnson was reportedly in the area for a party with some friends. No one has yet been taken into custody, and deputies are currently searching for at least one suspect who fled from the scene after the shooting.
This is a developing story. Stay tuned for more updates.
From the Orange County Sheriff’s Office:
On January 15, 2018, at 3:02 a.m., deputies responded to a disturbance call with shots fired occurring in the parking lot of the Waffle House. Witnesses stated an argument occurred outside the business between two separate groups. During the argument, the victim (B/M 23 years old) was shot and pronounced deceased on scene by OCFRD. The suspect(s) fled in an unknown vehicle.
The B/M has been identified as Herbert Johnson (23yoa); his next of kin have been notified, the victim was from the Daytona area. OCSO Homicide Investigators are following up to determine what transpired prior to the shooting occurring in the parking lot, as well as to determine how many shooter(s) were involved. They are reviewing surveillance videos. We will provide information as it becomes available. No 911 tapes or video(s) are available in this open and active
investigation. We ask that anyone who was at the Waffle House and saw something to call
Crimeline with any information at 800-423- 8477.



