How to get free 2 day shipping on Peach Bowl Gear



In a move that appears to be a historic first of its kind—and “flies in the face” of the NCAA playoff system—a Virginia newspaper says it had no choice but to declare UCF national champions.
“With an undefeated record and a win over a top-10 team in the Peach Bowl, we were left no other choice but to name them national champs,” said Richard Ingram, President of Womack Publishing Company. “It’s a testament to the work they put in, and the chance they were never given by the Bowl Selection Committee.”
The Prince George Journal in Prince George County, Virginia, has served its community for 19 years, according to its Twitter feed. It’s part of a media group of 18 papers across Virginia and the Carolinas.
According to Prince George Journal publisher Chad Harrison, the paper will print a special commemorative championship edition issue Thursday.
“Our newspaper has decided today to name the UCF Knights the 2017 College Football National Champions by virtue of going 13-0 and winning the Peach Bowl,” Harrison said, who is also Director of Operations for Womack Publishing.
Although Alabama and Georgia face each other in the officially sanctioned national championship game on Monday, January 8, in Atlanta, Auburn’s regular-season victories give the Knights the edge, the paper said.
UCF gameday head coach Scott Frost, Director of Athletics Danny White, quarterback McKenzie Milton, and more spoke out against the CFP committee after sealing the season undefeated.



The Peach Bowl Champions (and transitive law of college football national champions) will have their national championship celebration parade in Orlando, UCF Athletic Director Danny White said on the Dan Lebatard Morning Show, according to Spectrum Sports.
Knight News confirmed the parade is in the works.
White has been a huge proponent for the Knights participating in the playoff after the committee continued to lowball the undefeated team, according to White’s reactions to the weekly ranking.
Buy your Peach Bowl Championship shirts here in time for the parade
In 2014, UCF earned a parade on Main Street at Walt Disney’s Magic Kingdom for returning as the Fiesta Bowl Champions when they defeated the three-score favorite Baylor Bears 51-42.
Immediately after the game, McKenzie Milton told the stadium and members of the media to cancel the college football playoff. When asked again in the press conference, Milton said he wasn’t changing his mind. College Football analysts and commentators are jumping on the Knights national championship wagon.
Stay tuned with Knight News for the latest on UCF’s Peach Bowl celebration.



After Monday’s New Year’s Day victory over Auburn in the Peach Bowl, UCF Athletic Director Danny White didn’t stutter when he said the Knights are national champions.
White argued for UCF to gain respect from the College Football Playoff Committee through the end of the season.
As almost everyone said in jest after the game, the Knights are national champions.
.@UCFDannyWhite didn’t stutter…#ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/ozdNaz4MCW
— Orlando’s Hometown Team (@UCFKnights) January 1, 2018

GAME STORY:
Undefeated, UCF Stands Alone Atop the College Football World after 34-27 Peach Bowl Upset over Auburn




