The Florida Board of Governors unanimously confirmed the nomination of University of Central Florida Provost Dale Whittaker on Tuesday as the next UCF president.
Whittaker will become UCF’s fifth vice president after John C. Hitt, serving the university and Central Florida community for 26 years.
“There is no better or more exciting job in higher education than president at the University of Central Florida,” Whittaker said. “UCF is a fantastic institution. It’s one of the most innovative in the country, one of the most diverse, and it’s our nation’s greatest producer of talent.”
Whittaker will take Hitt’s place on July 1, 2018.
“I cannot believe the universal support that you’ve had, not only from the trustees and administrators, but also from faculty and students. It really is remarkable, and it says a lot about what you have accomplished in these last several years,” said Sydney Kitson, vice chair of the Board of Governors and the board’s representative on the UCF presidential search committee. “Great leaders surround themselves with great talent and energize those around them, and you clearly have done all of that.”
Whittaker told the Board of Governors, which oversees Florida’s 12 public universities, he believes UCF can be a national model for higher education in the 21st century.
“We will be a talent engine, meeting Florida’s growing need for world-class education and workforce innovation,” Whittaker said to the BOG. “We will deliver value by being focused stewards of families and taxpayers’ dollars, and be efficient with our resources while providing our students with the highest quality.
“And, we will grow partnerships that bring ideas to impact, focusing on our distinct strengths as a metropolitan research university and the greatest areas of opportunity for Florida.” 
Hitt will work with Whittaker over the coming months to ensure a smooth transition, according to UCF.
BREAKING: UCF Provost Dale Whittaker Named President-Elect




Gringos Locos anticipates a Summer 2018 opening, “two to three months from now,” according to a Gringos Locos employee.
The Mexican restaurant has faced licensing and permit hurdles, according to the employee, and plans to have them resolved for an opening around June of this year.
Originally, Gringos Locos planned to open in September 2017 shortly after the semester began. Students have shown a fervent love for the Central Florida restaurant, which also has locations throughout Downtown Orlando.
–
Original Story:
The University of Central Florida has signed a lease with Gringos Locos, often referred as “Orlando’s Best Mexican Food,” who will occupy the space in Knights Plaza where Kyoto Sushi & Grill served.
Knight News spoke with UCF News & Information Assistant Director Mark Schleub on the new restaurant.
“We hope Gringos Locos will open in time for the start of the Fall semester,” Schleub said.
“We’ve heard a lot of positive feedback from students about Gringos Locos coming to UCF, so we think this dining option is a good fit for our campus.”
The Mexican restaurant will be working on interior renovations prior to opening, which involves additional permitting and inspection, and may delay its debut.
Knights Plaza Kyoto Sushi & Grill Closes



The University of Central Florida Police Department announced the anticipated removal of Wenliang Sun, 26, after violating his non-immigrant status and displaying disturbing behavior to friends, roommates, and university staff.
UCF staff notified campus police on February 1 after witnessing a dramatic change in Sun’s appearance and behavior, including a $70,000 cash purchase for a new car.
On February 7, Sun purchased a .308 Ruger Precision caliber rifle with a bipod and high-value optics, adding to an already owned LWRC 300 Blackout rifle with ammunition kept in a public storage facility due to firearms not being allowed in his off-campus apartment, according to law enforcement. 
Sun refused to hand over the LWRC 300 Blackout Rifle to police for safekeeping, purchasing the .308 Ruger five days after UCFPD made contact with the student on February 2.
 
Both guns were purchased legally because federal law allows for those holding nonimmigrant visas to possess a firearm if they hold a hunting license, which Sun possessed, UCF said.
“The ‘See Something, Say Something’ message worked on every level,” said UCF Police Chief Richard Beary. “People noticed a distressing change in this young man, and they alerted UCFPD. Our detectives investigated and elevated their concerns to our federal partners, who took swift and appropriate action. Safety is truly a team effort, and it is through vigilance and partnership that we create a more secure community for each other.”
Sun enrolled as a nonimmigrant F-1 international student in an academic and cultural program at UCF that prepares international students for success at an American university, according to UCF.
“Sun’s nonimmigrant status was terminated after he purchased the second firearm for noncompliance with regulations unrelated to the firearms purchase,” the university said in a press release. “As an F-1 international student, he was required to attend classes, which he did not.”
“Ownership of both firearms became illegal once Sun no longer had legal nonimmigrant status in the U.S., and he was taken into custody Feb. 7 by HSI and ATF for violations of the terms of his admission to the U.S. and potential violation of federal firearms laws.”
On March 21, an immigration judge ordered Sun be sent back to China after failing to comply with the terms of his non-immigrant status and will not be allowed back into the United States for at least 10 years.
#HSI special agents are proud of our role in keeping the campus safe. https://t.co/aR9DV6SAXD
— ICE Tampa (@ICEgovTampa) March 29, 2018

“Law enforcement and the concerned community in this case, showed that the campaign for ‘See Something, Say Something’ is much more than just words,” said ATF Special Agent in Charge Daryl McCrary. “With partnerships between the community and law enforcement, sharing a common concern for the communities we live in, we can reduce violent crime, mitigate dangerous situations, and save lives.”
“This is a case where successful communication at every level of law enforcement may have prevented another school tragedy,” said HSI Tampa Special Agent in Charge James C. Spero.




