Orlando Antifa, an anti-fascist group who are self-proclaimed fighters of racism and oppression, and the Orlando Workers League are holding a counter protest to “protect” University of Central Florida students from Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk.
The groups plans to protest Kirk’s scheduled speaking event at The University of Central Florida on April 10, which is apart of Kirk’s ‘Hard Truths’ tour that aims to “expose leftist lies and progressive propaganda,” according to the OWL’s event Facebook page titled “Oh Hell No: Oppose Charlie Kirk At UCF.”
In the event description, OWL and Orlando Antifa are calling for “lovers of liberty and equality” to counter-protest at Kirk’s event, and to contact UCF to demand Kirk’s speech be revoked.
“Call UCF and demand that Charlie Kirk’s speech be revoked,” they wrote. “His presence on our campus endangers the lives of UCF students.”
The group goes on to, cite violence at one of Kirk’s speaking events at Colorado State University, where a group donning riot shields, skull face masks, and shouting nazi slogans attacked a group of counter-protestors. This was also stated by Antifa on their Twitter page.

 
“Where TPUSA and Charlie Kirk go, violence follows,” they wrote. “Charlie Kirk is simply the latest manifestation of the fascist current in the US.”
In another tweet later that day,by Orland Antifa, the group vowed to “protect” UCF students from fascists and their sympathizers.
“If/when @UCF fails to protect its students, we will be there to defend each other from fascists & their sympathizers. No pasaran!”

Cristina Del Rosso, President of the Turning Point USA UCF chapter gave Knight News a statement regarding the comments made by Orlando Antifa.
“Turning Point USA supports the First Amendment right to free speech and assembly as provided for in the United States Constitution. We do not support the use of violence to shut down free speech events, as it is counterproductive to democracy and the freedom of expression. TPUSA UCF is working with UCF officials to ensure the safety of students and attendees.”
Orlando Antifa did not respond to our request for comment.
Kirk founded Turning Point USA, a nonprofit political-advocacy group, as an on-campus organization that aims to teach free market values to students on college campuses, according to the Turning Point website.
Kirk touts conservative viewpoints and has been interviewed on Fox News, CNBC, and Fox Business News over 200 times, according to his event’s facebook page.
 



The Rosen College of Hospitality will welcome Chick-Fil-A as its newest lunchtime pop-up restaurant.
The catering division at The Loop store began working with Rosen to sell food on campus on Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Chick-Fil-A will be on campus during the semester but not during breaks, UCF has said.
The University of Central Florida receives 10% of the sales dollars in the form of a donation to the UCF Rosen College Foundation for scholarship funding, according to UCF spokeswoman Heather Smith.
Dining Dollars cannot be used at the location.



ORLANDO, Fla.- UCF doesn’t have any Olympic athletes competing in PyeongChang this year, but while checking over the rosters I found something quite unique.  Ocala has become a leader in long track speedskating.
It is not surprising Florida doesn’t produce an abundance of Winter Olympic athletes, considering there is no winter here. However, the state did manage five athletes for this upcoming Olympics, three of them are long track speed skaters from Ocala, Florida.
Why on earth does Ocala produce speed skaters?
According to a report by Yahoo Sports, Renee Hildebrand is the reason.  Renee started out teaching inline skating and got to be very proficient at the skills and techniques.  Unfortunately, there are no Olympic medals given out for inline skating. Some of her top inline skaters made the jump to long track speedskating–which takes place on ice—with hopes of a gold medal.
Renee now has three Olympic Athletes representing the US in long track speedskating. Joey Mantia and Brittany Bowe both trained with Renee in Ocala before leaving for the Midwest to train on the ice.  They both competed at the Sochi Winter Olympics in 2014.
The newest member of the trio from Ocala is Erin Jackson. Erin has only been competing in long track skating for four months.  She was an 11-time inline skating World Champion, her success in that sport has translated quickly onto the ice. Erin will also be the first US African American Women to make the US Olympic speed skating team.
Ocala still doesn’t have an indoor facility to train these world class athletes. The training takes place at Skate-A-way South in Ocala, whose website promotes kids birthdays and an on-site DJ.
The Olympics start today, so be on the lookout for the Ocala led Speed Skating team.



