A high-ranking UCF administrator — who previously helped negotiate Aramark’s takeover of the Student Union — has resigned after allegations arose that he improperly influenced contracting processes after receiving gifts from vendors.
Curt Sawyer, the former Associate Vice-President of University Services, resigned from his position in March, a week after a report was sent by Rhonda Bishop, the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer, to William Merck, the Executive Vice-President For Administration and Finance. An initial report was filed in January of 2017, claiming that Sawyer had solicited gifts from university vendors, according to the report by the University Compliance, Ethics and Risks Office.
According to the report sent to Merck, Sawyer solicited gifts from vendors — and encouraged his employees to as well — for the Inter-Institutional Committee of Auxiliary Services and Administrators conference in 2016. Previously In 2014, Sawyer was accused of violating state ethics code for public employees, and was required to undergo “one-on-one” training with UCER on ethics law, according to the report.
“Despite the 2014 UA investigation findings and subsequent training delivered by UCER, Mr. Sawyer has continued to accept and solicit complimentary meals, beverages, and other gifts from university vendors,” the report reads.
In January of 2017, after a conference, UCER investivaged reports that Sawyer “solicited or directed his staff members to solicit meals and other gifts for ICASA attendees, including himself, from Aramark, Coca-Cola, Staples, Barnes & Noble, Gilly Vending and Which Wich,” according to the report.
At the time of the ICASA conference, UCF was in active contract negotiations with Aramark, Coca-Cola, and Staples, which Sawyer was overseeing, according to the report. 
Employees interviewed during the investigation told UCER that multiple times during the planning of the conference they asked Sawyer if they should seek advice on whether they should be soliciting donations from vendors, but Sawyer told them repeatedly that there wasn’t any reason to seek advice and that receiving donations from vendors for the conference was an “accepted and long‐standing practice,” according to the report.
The items solicited from vendors for the conference included spirit tastings and tapas, margarita gift-sets for attendees, Barnes & Noble gift cards and umbrellas, Blue Man Group tickets, padfolios and boxed lunches, according to the report.
When asked about these solicitations, Sawyer said multiple times that these were standard practices for the conference, and “argued that the gifts were not personal and that this was an acceptable business practice. He further stated that UCER’s view, if correct, would have significant implications on the entire [State University System],” according to the report.
Besides the ICASA conference, it was reported that Sawyer had accepted gifts from other vendors. When questioned about additional gifts, Sawyer “emphatically” denied he had received any lunches or items from vendors, due to the training he had received in 2014. However when further questioned, he did admit to sometimes allowing vendors to pay for him, the report said.
Sawyer also accepted a pullover jacket and tickets for him and his family to attend an Orlando City Stadium game, provided to him by Spectra Venue Management, according to the report. 
After Sawyer attended the game, UCF posted an intent to offer a contract to Spectra for concessions — a position held by Centerplate for ten years. Centerplate filed a complaint, and the judge in the hearing ruled in favor of Centerplate, according to the report.
“The judge cited a number of reasons including Mr. Sawyer’s insistence on involving Mr. Hixenbaugh in the concessions ITN development meetings. The September 2017 outcome ruling against UCF demonstrates the risks associated with Mr. Sawyer’s continued disregard for the state’s ethics laws and UCF’s procurement requirements,” the report reads.
This is an ongoing story and more updates will posted soon.



Being a college student comes with a lot of responsibility, but that doesn’t mean you can’t add a dog into the mix. Rachel Glory, 23, graduated last fall from UCF with a degree in philosophy. Glory found UCF to be a welcoming campus for her dog Ventress, where she would take her for walks around campus regularly, she said.
“l would take her for walks around campus and she would get pet by everyone, ” Glory said.
Ventress, named after Glory’s favorite Star Wars character, is a three-and-a-half-year-old Alaskan husky. Glory bought Ventress when she was just an eight-week-old puppy from a lady who was breeding her to help pay for her daughter’s bills.
Taking care of a dog while studying and working two jobs can be challenging, but Glory made sure Ventress always gets the care she needs. She even takes the time to train her the basic commands twice daily, she said. One of the things that helped her cope with late study nights was the Wag app. The app offers a service where a person can come and walk your dog and give it water while you’re away.
“In live time it showed you where your dog is being walked, where it goes to the bathroom, it can send you videos and pictures of your dog. That was very helpful when I had to stay late nights in the library,” Glory said.
This is an example of how technology can be used to make life easier for student dog owners.
Glory is in the process of registering Ventress as an emotional support animal and plans to take her to hospitals to do charity work, she said.
“She’s such a good dog and I found that she’s so good with kids and animals and I thought this would be a good way of giving back. Its beneficial to my dog getting socialized and could help cheer someone up,” Glory said.
Glory did not run into any difficulty around campus and no one ever told her that she couldn’t take Ventress anywhere she went on campus. But she didn’t take her to class, she said.
“I liked how UCF is pet friendly, a beautiful campus for them to walk around and I really enjoyed that aspect. Even if I wanted to grab something to eat at Burger U or something I could just bring her to the patio there,” Glory said.
Sometimes Glory would take Ventress to study with her outside and Ventress would let her know if she was paying too much attention to her homework and not enough attention to her.
“She gets lots of love while I do my homework and studying. But if I’m on my laptop for too long she will come up and she will close my laptop with her paw,” Glory said.



On the one-year anniversary of the motorcycle accident that claimed one of his legs and part of the other, Radley Gillis spent the day like any other. He woke up, went to the gym and then class, giving himself only a moment to reflect on the fateful night last April. 
“It’s just weird to think about,” He said. A smile, with a hint of sadness, flashed on his face as he looked down in his lap.
Gillis, a 22-year-old senior at the University of Central Florida, wheeled across the back patio of the Student Union, having taken off his prosthetics for the day. “I was starting to get sore,” Gillis said as he rubbed his right leg, which was amputated several inches below the knee.
On April 4, 2017, Gillis and Jake Adler, a friend and Phi Delta Theta fraternity brother, closed up the Lake Eola restaurant the two worked around 11 p.m. Gillis drove his motorcycle while Adler followed behind him in his truck, the two traveling along State Road 408 heading east. While coming up on a turn, a combination of a slick road due to rain and a miscalculated left turn caused Gillis to run into a metal guardrail, where the impact removed parts of Gillis’ legs and opened his torso from hip to hip.
“I just didn’t think it was real,” Adler said, remembering the accident. “I thought I was going to wake up from a nightmare, but I never did.”
Adler jumped into action, calling 911, who instructed him to cut off circulation to Gillis’ legs, using his suspenders as amatuer tournequets. He also used Gillis’ backpack wrapped in a shirt to stop the bleeding from his left side. Gillis credits Adler with saving his life.
Once the paramedics arrived, Adler followed the ambulance to the Orlando Regional Hospital. It was then that word began to spread of accident and Gillis’ fraternity brothers and friends began to show up, and soon the waiting room of the hospital was filled with 50 of Gillis’ closest friends, according to Adler.
“…Everyone kind of came together because we were all worried if he was going to make it,” Adler said. “And when Radley’s parents got there his dad led the group in prayer and we were all there for this family and each other.”
During his time in the hospital, his friends, fraternity brothers and the UCF community raised over $93,650 for Gillis’ medical expenses through a GoFundMe and events in his name. 
Gillis guessed he endured over 35 surgeries. It was the kindness of his loved ones though, that made the immeasurable pain more bearable.
“There was this little procedure the doctors had to do every two or three days. And I just dreaded it. I hated it so much, it was probably… I remember there was a ‘worst day,’ but this was the worst pain I had to constantly go through,” Gillis said.
The procedure was called vacuum-assisted closure of a wound, or wound VAC, and is a type of therapy that decreases the amount of pressure on an open wound, allowing it to heal quicker, according to John Hopkins Medicine Health Library. 
“It felt like they were tearing my skin off,” Gillis said, motioning to his torso with a ripping gesture. He paused, and laughed bitterly. “I hated it so much.”
“When they did the car wash [fundraiser] they did a video, I just saw them washing the cars and having a good time, and doing… interviews about me… every time the doctors did [wound VAC] to me, I’d watch that video on repeat, over and over and over, and it just helped me get through it,” Gillis said. He still watches it every now and then.
Gillis stayed in the hospital for two months and then the Hubbard House, a Orlando Regional Hospital affiliated living facility, for another two. His Fraternity brothers were there with him when he came home after the accident, and he now lives with four of them, including Adler, in a house nearby campus.
When he first arrived home, they drove him to appointments, helped him with household chores, cooked for him, took care of him when he was sick and assisted him at the gym. Though a year later he’s now able to do most of those things on his own, he still has the support of all 140 or so of his fraternity brothers when needed.
“All of the roommates and pretty much any fraternity brother is always there with a helping hand, but honestly at this point he’s come so far he barely needs any help these days, even though we’re all here to support him anyway,” Adler said.
Just months out of the hospital, Gillis was encouraged by the former vice-president of his fraternity to run for president of Phi Delta Theta.
“He brought it up a couple times, and I thought, ‘Why don’t I do it?’ I was thinking about it, I’m the best man for the job, I should do it,” Gillis said. “I never wanted this [accident] to prevent me from doing anything… I would have done before, when I had my legs.”
He began shadowing the former president, Gary Burns, to understand the position better. He went to meetings and watched Burns, learning the duties and role of the president. Leading up to his speech at the election’s open forum event, Gillis practiced on his new prosthetics every day to be able to stand. He said he envisioned himself standing before his brothers, giving a speech that would secure his position as president.
In a powerful display, Gillis debuted his new prosthetics the day of his speech.  “I walked in there, stood up, and gave my speech answered all their questions and got to be president. It was really cool,” Gillis said, remembering the event with a smile. “My [fraternity] brothers did so much for me, and I’m glad I can do this for them.” 
Since the election, Gillis has worked tirelessly running and overseeing Phi Delta Theta.
“At first I thought he was crazy for putting on all that responsibility so soon, but I was proud of him, and now he’s doing a great job,” Adler said. “He’s definitely a fighter and doesn’t give up, no matter what happens. He always says ‘It’s the way you react in tough times that show your true character.’ “
 



Summer semester has just started, and cabinet selections are underway for the student government. The second round of interviews began on Monday and continued through Wednesday, the plan is to announce the cabinet picks today, said UCF Student Body President Josh Bolona.
Bolona and Vice President Jad Shalhoub plan to announce the cabinet picks at the first senate meeting of the summer, which will be held at 6 p.m., in the Student Union’s Key West Ballroom.
They decided to do the interviews in two rounds, to get to know the candidates better and because there are many — possibly a record number of candidates — Bolona said.
A total of 136 candidates applied before the April 22 deadline, vying for the 12 available cabinet positions, according to Bolona.
“One of our campaign promises was to get five candidates per position, we exceeded that promise by far,” Bolona said.
Bolona and Shalhoub restructured the cabinet after getting student feedback through an interest form they sent out, which got more than 150 responses, Bolona said.
“Through that data we essentially grouped common things together to ensure we were not missing any student needs, or anything they cared about and through that we created positions,” Bolona said.
They downsized the cabinet from 16 to 12 positions and assigned each cabinet member a director role with the ability to create committees under them. This opens more leadership opportunities for students, Bolona said. The previous setup assigned to some members the director position and some were coordinators.
“We want student leaders, people that are passionate about serving leadership, care about UCF and they just happen to specialize in a particular position,” Bolona said.
According to Bolona, choosing the cabinet out would be very challenging given the number of qualified applicants, but the plan is to choose a group that can work together as a team.
“We want to assemble a team of the best of the best, it’s definitely a tough decision, but that’s a good problem to have,” Bolona said



