Student Government Presidential elections are about to start and candidates will be submitting their declaration of candidacy forms by next week.
Although no Declarations of Candidacy forms have been officially submitted, these are some names that are possibly running, according to our sources inside Student Government:
1. Josh Bolona and Jad Shalhoub will be running for the second year in a row. Last year Bolona lost to current Student Government President Nick Larkins by five percentage points of the vote. Currently Bolona serves as the Speaker of the Senate.
2.Brad Kuehler and Breon Clark will be making a run for the presidency. Currently, Kuehler is Larkins’ Chief of Staff and Clark is the current Diversity & Outreach Coordinator.
3. Karen Caudillo and Theressa Tong will be eyeing for the position. Currently, Caudlillo and Tong are both Senators representing the College of Sciences and Undergraduate Studies respectively. Along with Tong’s role as senator, she also serves as the Deputy Pro Tempore of Legislative Affairs
Knight News will continue to follow the elections and bring you complete coverage of each campaign.



This Friday, the University of Central Florida Student Government Association will be launching a new student ride program with Lyft.
The UCF Late Night Ride Program is designed to ensure that all UCF students will have a safe way to get home each weekend. This program will run for the remainder of the spring semester.
“We are excited to revitalize the ride share program, and grateful to be partnering with Lyft to keep students’ safe from drinking and driving incidents around our campus, Student Government Association President Nick Larkins said.
To take advantage of the new program, UCF students will first have to download the Lyft application on their smartphone and connect and activate their business profile with their Knights email address through the app, according to SGA.
From there, students must enter the promotional code, “UCFSGA218” into the promos tab on the Lyft application on Friday and Saturday nights between the hours of 8 p.m.-3 a.m.
This promotional code will get students $5 off their Lyft rides, according to SGA.
This deal will only be applicable in select areas around UCF. To see a full map of where this deal applies see below:



UCF Football continues to make the headlines. Another star has come out to congratulate UCF.
Mark Wahlberg released a promotional video for his restaurant Wahlburgers today, via the restaurants Facebook page. He did so in anticipation of the extra traffic in Orlando, thanks to the Pro Bowl. At the end of the video he gave a shout-out to the UCF football program.


‪Wahl thanks, Mark, for your message to the University of Central Florida football team and for welcoming the NFL #ProBowl to Orlando.
Posted by Wahlburgers on Wednesday, January 24, 2018
“I’d also like to give a shout-out to Co-National Champions, UCF, on their remarkable undefeated season.  Congratulations guys, that’s what we do,” Wahlberg said in a promotional video for his Orlando restaurant Wahlburgers.
The positive press keeps rolling in. Mark Wahlberg announcing UCF Co-National Champion is a great thing.  Whether people want to hear it or not, the more publicity UCF grabs from their undefeated season, the better. Strides such as this will positively impact the future of the program.



