Buy Your National Championship T-Shirt!
On Sunday, January 7, the University of Central Florida Knights football team will make its way down Main Street, U.S.A. at the Walt Disney World Magic Kingdom Park in a special parade in their honor.
“This will be a celebration of Orlando’s hometown team having a championship season with a perfect record and outstanding academic success,” UCF Athletics said in a press release. 
Who:                     University of Central Florida Knights football team, cheerleaders and marching band
What:                   Special Disney parade celebrating the hometown Knights having their best season ever with an undefeated record.  UCF’s student-athletes also have posted the highest graduation rate among all public institutions in the nation in the Football Bowl Subdivision for four consecutive years. 
Where:                Magic Kingdom Park at Walt Disney World Resort in Florida.
When:                  Sunday, January 7, 2018 – 4:30 p.m.
UCF defeated the two-score-favorite 34-27 with a dominating performance from the defense and a rebounding offensive push in the second half from McKenzie Milton and crew. 
Athletic Director Danny White and UCF President John C. Hitt have declared the 13-0 team national champions and by one NCAA selector, they are. The Wolfe Computer Rankings place UCF at No. 1 by a large margin, allowing White and Hitt to rightfully claim the title based on the selector as the NCAA does not officially recognize a champion outright.
Current UCF football season ticket-holders are eligible for special-priced admission to Magic Kingdom. More information will be sent to season ticket-holders via email very soon.
Additional info on further celebration events to follow.
Knight News is working to find out if there are accommodations for students to attend the parade.
Update: UCF on Disney Parade: We were unable to secure discounts, unfortunately. However, there will be plenty of opportunities for students to celebrate the championship. The team will be honored & trophies displayed at a future basketball game and there are talks of a free event in next week or so as well.
–
Game story:
Undefeated, UCF Stands Alone Atop the College Football World after 34-27 Peach Bowl Upset over Auburn




The University of Central Florida defeated Auburn to earn a perfect 13-0 season in front of the college football world on New Year’s Day with millions bearing witness.
The 50th Chick-fil-a Peach Bowl earned a 5.1 overnight – up 28% from the 2015 season game and 55% from the 2014 season game – posting the highest TV rating for a non-College Football Playoff semifinal bowl game in the New Year’s Six era.
A 5.1 rating with 2017’s Nielsen US TV universe estimate makes for 6 million viewers with their sights on the Knights.
UCF defeated the two-score-favorite 34-27 with a dominating performance from the defense and a rebounding offensive push in the second half from McKenzie Milton and crew. 
Athletic Director Danny White and UCF President John C. Hitt have declared the 13-0 team national champions and by one NCAA selector, they are. The Wolfe Computer Rankings place UCF at No. 1 by a large margin, allowing White and Hitt to rightfully claim the title based on the selector as the NCAA does not officially recognize a champion outright.
White announced a national championship parade and banners for Spectrum Stadium to roll out quickly.
Stay tuned with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF Football news.
Game story:
Undefeated, UCF Stands Alone Atop the College Football World after 34-27 Peach Bowl Upset over Auburn




SHIPPING NOW AVAILABLE! 
Support our student journalists and celebrate perfection with your National Champions t-shirt! 
SAVE ON SHIPPING: Choose Store Pickup at check out and grab your shirt at the Plaza Apartments leasing office, in the UCF area this January. We’ll announce when they’re ready.




This works best when using a computer. If you’re on a mobile device, you may need to visit KnightNews.com from your browser in a new window (rather than clicking from Facebook’s app) to check out properly. 
Pick your size and add to cart. If you want additional sizes, leave the cart window open, continue shopping on this page, and add additional sizes. When you’re done, check out on the PayPal window.
You can check out without a PayPal account – and just use a credit card – by following the directions at the bottom of the paypal window. 
REMEMBER – SAVE ON SHIPPING. Choose store pickup and grab your shirt in person from the Plaza on University Leasing Office — once we announce they’re available, likely within a couple weeks! There is also now an option for shipping, available to select once you’re at checkout. 
Knight News is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation that teaches students how to succeed in today’s changing digital media world.
A COPY OF THE OFFICIAL REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DIVISION OF CONSUMER SERVICES BY CALLING TOLL-FREE (800-435-7352) WITHIN THE STATE OR AT WWW.FRESHFROMFLORIDA.COM. REGISTRATION DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION BY THE STATE.



