After a series of intensive interviews, the UCF Search Committee finally announced the last 4 candidates left standing in the search for the Presidential position. Four candidates have now fallen by wayside, and the race to replace President Hitt now takes place between the following individuals:
1. Suresh Garimella- Ph.D., currently the vice president of research and partnerships at Purdue University. Suresh Garimella received his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkley.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/s-garimella-at-purdue/
2. Mark Kennedy- currently the President at the University of North Dakota. Mark Kennedy received his MBA from the University of Michigan.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/markkennedyund/
3. Dale Whittaker- Ph.D., provost and executive vice president at the University of Central Florida. He received his Ph.D. from Purdue University.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/dale-whittaker-9426404/
4. Matthew Wilson- JD, currently president at the University of Akron. Wilson earned his JD from Temple University.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew-wilson-77686/
Stay tuned for following updates to find out who will ultimately take over the reigns for UCF.



Taco Bell Cantina will open its first Central Florida location right across from the University of Central Florida.
At 2,846-square-feet, the new Taco Bell concept will operate without a drive-through but plans to serve craft beer at Plaza on University. An open kitchen, murals by local artists, and a walk-up window for ordering will be at the location.
Taco Bell corporate plans to open 300 more locations over the next five years.
“When you factor in all the strengths of The Plaza on University’s location — the volume of employees at nearby office parks, the number of single-family neighborhoods in the vicinity, the exceptional vehicular traffic passing through the intersection of University Blvd and Alafaya Trail each day, and its proximity to the nation’s second-largest university,” Brandon Delanois, the broker who represented the landlord for the deal, said to the Orlando Sentinel. “There is no better space for this type of concept in the Orlando market.”
Stay tuned with Knight News for more on the Taco Bell Cantina opening.



