The University of Central Florida advanced to No. 8 after defeating then-No. 19 Cincinnati in dominating fashion.
The Knights, fresh off a College GameDay visit and unanimous pick by the ESPN hosts, made quick work of the rising Cincinnati Bearcats 38-13 to become AAC East Division Champions.
Spectrum stadium recorded its second-largest crowd ever at 47,795 – nearly every fan stayed through the start of the first quarter and the gameday atmosphere was one of the best ever for UCF. 
When the Knights were called to the national stage – an ABC primetime broadcast and College GameDay visit – they answered by shutting down the Cincinnati offense for three straight quarters and stomping the defense game in and game out.
UCF Clinches AAC East Division With Statement Win Over Cincinnati

ESPN College GameDay host Kirk Herbstreit made a 180 on the Knights which you can read more about here.
UCF’s next matchup is against USF in the War on I-4 rivalry match on Black Friday. The Knights will also host the AAC Conference Championship again on December 1 at 3:30 on ABC.
Where Does UCF Stand in CFB? Kirk Herbstreit, Once Knights’ Biggest Critic, Ranks UCF at No. 7




The ESPN College GameDay hosts covered the University of Central Florida for the first time at Spectrum Stadium and witnessed the Knights’ best performance all season – all against a ranked opponent.
One of the UCF’s biggest critics – Kirk Herbstreit – went on air mid-season to highlight other, more “deserving” G5 teams in a widely circulated hot take, but later changed his mind once seeing the team in action against a tougher opponent.
Congratulations @UCF_Football on another big win. I was really blown away by your team and your home field advantage. From @CollegeGameDay to the game itself we had a great time. Thanks very much for having us. You all have a lot to be proud of. pic.twitter.com/G0iFlUKiqZ
— Kirk Herbstreit (@KirkHerbstreit) November 18, 2018

Cincinnati grazed top-25 status, while UCF and USF also made the list, but lost to Temple October 20 and fell out of the rankings. A 42-0 shutout against Navy vaulted them to No. 19, only eight spots below UCF. The Black and Gold beat Navy at home by only 11 points the week after Cincinnati, a major talking point for the Ohio team’s sympathetic.
On primetime television, defensive coordinator Randy Shannon answered with a complete shutdown of the Bearcats’ offense for more than three quarters with Heupel and McKenzie Milton making an impressive march down the field six times to score.
At the beginning of the game (sent in a tweet following the game), Herbstreit took out his phone and panned around Spectrum Stadium while 47,000 fans brought the bounce house to life. The ESPN host said that he’d been blown away by UCF’s program and game atmosphere as the Knights made a dominating performance at home. Herbstreit went far enough to rank the 23-0 team No. 7 in the country while describing UCF as “FAST & REAL,” behind Georgia and Washington State.
Few Saturday observations
*Clemson defense playing DOMINANT football
*ND is 60 minutes away from a playoff berth
*UM needs better Red Zone eff vs Ohio St
*UCF is FAST & REAL
*OU & Ohio St have SERIOUS defensive issues
*Okla St plays up or down to their opponent
*****continue
— Kirk Herbstreit (@KirkHerbstreit) November 18, 2018

I’d rank em 7. https://t.co/Sz2VaU5nyP
— Kirk Herbstreit (@KirkHerbstreit) November 18, 2018

The American Athletic Conference East Division was claimed by UCF Saturday night. As the best-performing team in the conference, the AAC Championship will return to Orlando December 1 at 3:30 p.m. on ABC against the winner of the West Division game.
Check out Knight News’ College GameDay Coverage:
The Best Signs of College GameDay on UCF’s Memory Mall

VIDEO: Gameday Crew SAYS UCF Defense  is the key to victory




The UCF-Cincinnati game brought a rating of 2.3 overnight as ABC’s highest primetime game of the week with 15% more viewers over the second in line.
Cincinnati and Central Florida delivered a 10.6 and 11.1, respectively. In Orlando, the local rating is the market’s best for an ABC/ESPN game this season. In Cincinnati, the local rating notably surpassed the Ohio State game earlier in the day. 
Orlando’s hometown team raked in millions of viewers Saturday after College GameDay and its hosts featured UCF in the morning and at the 8 p.m. kickoff.
JUST IN: UCF-Cincinnati delivers a 2.3 rating✅, the highest prime time game of the week✅ and 15% more viewers than the second in line✅.
More than 1 out of 10 households in Orlando had the UCF game on 📺#LetsGoKnights pic.twitter.com/NWXrN9Aztb
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 18, 2018

The Knights dominated the No. 19 Bearcats on the national stage and clinched the American Athletic Conference East Division title. UCF will host the AAC Championship game again in Orlando after the War on I-4 this Thanksgiving weekend.
Read more about how ESPN College GameDay host Kirk Herbstreit changed his mind on the UCF Football program:
Where Does UCF Stand in CFB? Kirk Herbstreit, Once Knights’ Biggest Critic, Ranks UCF at No. 7




