The University of Central Florida’s presidential search is underway and the school already has received 15 applications.
So far, zero UCF officials, including UCF Provost and Executive Vice President Dr. A. Dale Whittaker — who was a finalist for Iowa State University’s college President’s role — have applied.
UCF is still taking applications and more potential names will likely be considered.
While Knight News has received the applications of candidates who have officially applied for the presidential position, it is unclear how many people have been in contact with UCF’s Parker Executive Search and not officially applied for the job.
In the state of Florida, once someone submits an application for any public position, that information becomes a public record. 
Because of this, candidates who aren’t interested enough to make a public commitment may hold off on applying.
While it is still early in the presidential search process, check out some of the people who are being considered by scrolling through the next pages: 
Name: Prof. Mamdooh Abdelhameed Abdelmottlep (Ph.D., JD)
 Current Role: Manager of International Police Sciences Association 
Read cover letter. 



The University of Central Florida Police Department released a statement on an attempted battery that took place Monday in Parking Garage-C.
A female student reported an unknown man approached her around 6 p.m. inside the garage and asked for assistance, police said. The suspect then reached over to the female and attempted to touch her leg.
UCF Alert: An attempted battery took place on campus in Garage-C tonight. Suspect description matches previous criminal activity on campus. Details are below. #UCF pic.twitter.com/uDdfBW9Mr8
— UCF Knight News | Covering Perfection (@UCFKnightNews) January 22, 2018

The student screamed and the suspect ran away, according to police who rushed to the scene.
A 5’7″ college-aged thin, dark-skinned male with glasses, a gray sweater, and dark pants was the description given by the UCF Police Department. The suspect reportedly spoke with an accent.
UCFPD can be reached 24/7 by calling 407-823-5555 or 911 in an emergency.
This is a breaking story – stay tuned for updates.



Orlando, Fla.- UCF’s football team will be honored by the NFL after the 1st quarter of the Pro Bowl, According to the UCF Football Homepage.
The Pro Bowl takes place January 28th at 3:00 P.M. ET. It will be played at Camping World Stadium, airing on ESPN.
This will be an amazing experience for the Knights. They will Be able to spend time with the best players in the world, while being recognized by the professional organization they strive to be a part of.
The celebration following the Peach Bowl has shown the advantages of playing college football in Orlando. They didn’t get to play in the College Football Playoff this year, but they got to do some amazing things. They received a celebratory parade at Disney, and now they are being honored at the NFL’s Pro Bowl.



Dan Wolff contributed to this article.
Filmmaker Charlie Minn is set to premiere his documentary 49 Pulses, which recounts the June 12, 2016, shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, this Friday, January 26 at the Premiere Cinema 14 theater in Orlando Fashion Square Mall.
“My films represent innocent people who have been murdered. I’m here to give them a voice. If I’m the one who has to talk for them, then so be it,” said Minn. 
Minn’s film will screen six times a day, at 11:00 A.M., 1:20 P.M., 3:40 P.M., 6:05 P.M., 8:20 P.M., and 10:35 P.M., for one week. However, the film may resonate with Orlando audiences and screen longer, according to Minn.

In his film, Minn does not mention the name of the Pulse shooter, Omar Mateen, because he believes the Mateen has been “glorified” by the media.
“I’ve been sick and tired of the media always glorifying the killer, putting the focus on the killer when the victims are the ones that should be discussed,” said Minn. “I think if you asked the average person who follows the news if they could name the shooter, they probably could. If you ask them to name one person out of the 49 that were murdered in Orlando, they’d probably go 0 for 49.”
Christine Leinonen is one of the  20-25 people Minn interviewed for the movie. Leinonen’s son Drew, who died in the shooting, was notably featured with his boyfriend, fellow UCF student Juan Ramon Guerroro, in a mural outside the UCF Student Union recognizing the victims. 

One criticism some have for the film is the release is too close to the shooting itself. However, Minn maintains that the film needs to be released out of respect for the victims.
“For the people who want the story not told, who feel like the wound is reopened, I asked them politely, ‘You didn’t get shot. The victims want their stories told, and we should respect that.'”
Minn has directed 25 documentaries since 2010, mostly dealing with tragedies. Many of his films are available for streaming on Amazon Prime.  His next film, A Nightmare in Las Vegas, recounts the October 1, 2017, shooting in Las Vegas, and will premiere in March.

Knight News will be here with further coverage of 49 Pulses leading up to the January 26 premiere. Visit the official website at 49pulses.com for more information on the film.



Orlando, Fla.- UCF isn’t letting the CFP put them down.  They continue to celebrate being the only undefeated Division 1 football team in 2017.
They put up a national championship banner at their practice facility.  This beautiful banner can be seen many places around the city, they still have a couple up on Church street.

UCF will forever remember the 2017 season, and they want it to be culminated with a national championship.  Even though much of the country has moved on from the snubbing, the UCF community will continue to push the narrative for the rest of eternity.



