Rapper Tekashi 6ix9ine — who pleaded guilty to the use of a child in a sexual performance — is scheduled to perform at CFE Arena Sept 22, and students are outraged.
A petition, titled “UCF: Cancel Convicted Child Pornographer/Molester Tekashi69’s Show at CFE Arena,” has already amassed nearly 4,000 signatures. The petition, started by Noemi Teutsch, is aimed at the UCF Board of Trustees, Marcos Marchena, UCF board of Trustees Chairman and Robert Garvy, UCF Board of Trustees Vice Chairman.
In 2015, 6ix9ine, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, pleaded guilty to one felony count of ‘use of a child in a sexual performance,’ according to an article from Genius.
Hernandez filmed and uploaded videos of a 13-year-old girl in sexual situations, being touched/groped by men partying with Hernandez in February of 2015, according to an article by Jezebel.
Hernandez supposedly violated his plea deal, in which he agreed not to commit any other offences for two years, by being arrested twice for allegedly choking a 16-year-old in Houston earlier this year.
Because he allegedly violated his plea deal, he could face up to three years in prison and possible registry as a sex offender, according to an article from BBC.
The petition takes issue with UCF’s CFE Arena allowing him on campus despite his legal trouble involving children.
 “What message is this decision sending to the general public, that an accredited educational institution will condone and encourage the presence of someone convicted with such an obscene crime? Why are they giving this person a pass? Did this fact not cross the the [sic] minds of staff at UCF, or see how it could severely damage the school’s image?” The petition reads.
Earlier this summer, Hernandez was barred from entering the UK, according to an article by Manchester Evening Post. Hernandez was scheduled to perform a show in Manchester, England, but was denied entry due to his criminal history, according to the article.
Knight News has reached to the CFE arena for comment on the petition and the controversy surrounding Hernandez.



What seemed at first to be a spam email ended up being a real $1 million bequest from a professor in the Midwest to a UCF based non-profit, Limbitless Solutions, that provides children with 3D printed limbs for free.
The email was directed to Professor Alain Kassab Ph.D., the head of the prosthetics interfaces cluster at the time. After receiving the email, Kassab looked her up to make sure she was a real person.
“It was certainly not one of those Nigerian plots to get your bank account, it was phrased in a more intelligent manner,” Kassab said.
The donor, Anne Smallwood, is a Drexel University College of Medicine professor who worked on clinical research in the pharmaceutical industry for over 30 years. She was looking to donate to a university that was working on prosthetics for veterans returning from combat, and she emailed several universities that had groups working on prosthetics, but most didn’t answer until she emailed Kassab, according to a UCF press release.
“It was a really strange email because it was someone who was not connected to the university and that heard of Limbitless and wanted to provide a long-term lasting legacy. In our mindset we wanted to reach out right away in hopes that it might be something real,” Limbitless founder Albert Manero said.
Kassab explained to Smallwood the projects that UCF is working on in the development of prosthetics and what Limbitless Solutions was doing to help provide children with prosthetic limbs.
“She got very enthusiastic and supportive of the Limbitless folks … thought it was a worthwhile cause,” Kassab said.
In addition to the bequest that she committed, she will be lending her expertise in pharma economics by advising Limbitless as they work on getting their limbs mass manufactured to provide any child in need, Manero said.
“Her experience in seeing a device or a drug get from the idea and the inspiration to the marketplace is kind of what she’s bringing to the table,” Manero said.
The Limbitless team are appreciative of not only the gift, but also the expert help that Smallwood will provide as they work on reaching their goal of providing arms to every child in need.
“Her commitment to supporting Limbitless in the long term really shows that there are champions out there for Limbitless who really believe in the mission to be able to help these children and eventually others that we work with,” Manero said.
Manero emphasizes that “you too can be a champion for Limbitless.” To learn more about what Limbitless is doing, visit 3dhope.com.



The University of Central Florida Barnes & Noble supposedly gave a freshman new hire a common ultimatum: skip class to work or be fired.
Parents of UCF students have expressed outrage with the interaction that supposedly took place between a freshman employee and manager at the UCF Barnes & Noble.
The new hire was encouraged by the bookstore administrator to skip freshman convocation as well as his classes to work at the bookstore. The student skipped convocation but did not volunteer to miss class.
The administrator told the student he would be fired if he did not comply and reportedly asked why the student would not comply given students in the past have accommodated their request without conflict, according to the parent, who did not wish to be identified.
“He was hired to work at the bookstore by the Student Union. They scheduled him to work during freshman convocation and they wouldn’t change the schedule, therefore, he had to miss convocation,” said the parent.
“Then they scheduled him to work at the same time he had class. He spoke to the manager to inform her of the conflict and she said she would not change it and actually encouraged him to skip class to come work. She told him if he does not come to his shift and goes to class instead he would be fired.”
“He told her he was not going to skip one of his classes; she said ‘why not? Everyone else does.'”
The parent expressed their frustration and a dialogue found that the incident would not be reported, to keep the relationship of the freshman with UCF intact.
When Knight News reached out to UCF for comment, a spokeswoman stated the bookstore manager asked his team about the incident but nothing came up as of the discussion.
“We’ve reached out to the bookstore manager who has inquired about this allegation with his team. They are not aware of any such incident occurring at any of their UCF locations,” said Heather Smith, Assistant Director for Media Relations.
The message was relayed to the parent.
“UCF wouldn’t know about it because it wasn’t reported to them. It did happen, with a female manager/Supervisor. But of course, they are going to deny it. I know it happened but don’t want to disclose names. The student doesn’t want it coming back to bite [them].”
The freshman’s account was not the only one to surface due to complaints with bookstore management.
Knight News made a public records request for complaints made against bookstore administrators and discovered one complaint while anecdotes arose on social media of similar incidents.
  
 
The lone complaint from the new hire characterized the bookstore managers as dismissive, lacking communication or concern, and reiterated trouble with scheduling the student’s shifts after the Fall semester ended, according to the document.
The student, Sydney Wolf, spoke with Knight News and confirmed the interactions.
Wolf’s email from Barnes & Noble Regional to the local bookstore manager at the John T. Washington Center appeared to go unresponded, according to a public records request, which included only the one document chain.
I was supposed to be an employee at the bookstore. I had a terrible experience. I submitted a complaint to Barnes & Noble college. The regional manager, Jennifer Russell, reached out to me and asked me to explain. I sent her this email. Unsurprisingly, I never got a response. pic.twitter.com/7t6DFRE5Uo
— Savage Sydney (@SydneyWolf0317) August 22, 2018

The anecdotes on social media had mixed reactions. Two direct replies from both sides are included:
i worked at the bookstore, it was awful. pick up shifts only, and if you didn’t catch a shift first before someone else picked it up they would get mad you weren’t working. i believe they told that freshman that, the managers there are idiots
— ✨useless ferret✨ (@neosiuss) August 22, 2018

The managers do care about our well being, help us out on our problems, and look out for us as well. These are good people folks. I’ve learned soo much from them over the years. They inspire me to be who I am at work today.
— Mike Ryan (@MikeRyanR) August 25, 2018

Email news@knightnews.com with news tips.
–
Public record: Bookstore complaints August 2018



