The much-anticipated American Athletic Conference matchup between No. 11 UCF and No. 24 Cincinnati began with unrivaled energy this season. Spectrum Stadium better known as “the bounce house” was indeed bouncing.
Cincinnati started the game off with the ball and on the first two plays were penalized for a false start and then a delay of game. The UCF defense came out to play in the first quarter stopping Cincinnati on their very first drive. Milton uncharacteristically fumbled the ball on the one-yard line on the following possession. The Bearcats recovered the ball in the end zone for a touchdown. Cole Smith missed the extra point making it an early 6-0 lead for Cincinnati.
Cincinnati’s defense gave the Knights trouble again on their second drive forcing them to punt it away. The Bearcats were given good field position, but the Knights defense continued to dominate. Forcing them to kick a 38-yard field goal that Smith missed. The Knights got the ball back and wasted no time. Milton hit Snelson for back to back completions, one for 15 yards and another for 28. Milton then hit Greg McCrae on 3rd down for 27 yards. Milton finished the drive off himself with a 3-yard touchdown run.
After a Matthew Wright extra point the Knights went up 7-6. On the ensuing possession Cincinnati was driving after a clutch 19-yard run by quarterback Desmond Ridder bringing them into UCF territory. The Knights defense forced yet another field goal attempt. This time it was blocked by Joey Connors and taken back for 53 yards by Brandon Moore.
The Knights offense got the ball back and Milton ran the ball for 5 yards to the Cincinnati 22-yard line to end the first quarter. Milton started the second quarter on a 17-yard touchdown pass to Adrian Killins putting the Knights up 14-6 after another good point after. UCF’s defense once again held strong forcing a punt this time. That next Knights drive was started off by a deep ball from Milton to Tre Nixon for 47 yards. They were forced to a 4th down situation in Cincinnati territory where they went for it. They could not convert and turned the ball over on downs on the Cincinnati 17. This was no worry for the Knights as the defense was once again lights out forcing another punt. 
The very next drive the Knights offense led by Milton drove down the field. Killins had a run for 11 yards then Milton hit him for a 12-yard pass. After a false start penalty Milton hit Snelson for 13 yards and capped the drive off with a 36-yard touchdown pass to Tre Nixon on 3rd down. Wright buried another extra point extending the lead to 21-6. Cincinnati finally looked like they were putting a scoring drive together to end the half getting deep into UCF territory. That drive was ended as Titus Davis stripped Ridder forcing a fumble to end the half.
The second half started a little slower. UCF began the 3rd quarter with the ball and punted it away on the first possession. This gave the defense another chance to keep beating up on the Cincinnati offense. That is just what they did. UCF’s defense forced a fumble that was recovered by Joey Connors. The Knights could not cash in on the good field position. They were forced to a 49-yard field goal that Wright uncharacteristically missed. The Bearcats were driving again on the ensuing possession and were forced to go for it on another 4th down. They were stopped by the red-hot Knights defense and turned the ball over on downs.
UCF strung a couple of rushes together to get into Cincinnati territory. Milton then ended the drive on a pitch to Killins who took it 42 yards to the house. After Wright split the uprights the Knights lead was now 28-6. The story of the game was Cincinnati not being able to finish drives.
The Bearcats were driving once again until UCF linebacker Pat Jasinski rocked Cincinnati’s QB Desmond Ridder and forced another fumble for the Knights defense right before the 4th quarter.
 After two unsportsmanlike conduct penalties against Cincinnati on the fumble play the ball was placed on the Cincy 34. The Knights took to the ground to start the 4th quarter as Milton rushed for 11 yards then McCrae for 9. They went right back to McCrae on the next play. This time he punched it in for an 11-yard touchdown run. After a made extra point the score was now put out of reach at 35-6. The Bearcats still showed some pride on the next drive. With key rushes from Tavion Thomas and Ridder the Bearcats got into the red zone. Thomas ended the drive with a 1-yard touchdown run giving the offenses their first touchdown of the game. After a good point after the score was now 35-13. The Knights added another 3 points on the board after a Wright 33-yard field goal.
UCF has now increased there win streak to 23 games. They also put on a show for the whole country tonight in a prime-time game. It was an eventful day on campus with College Gameday being in Orlando and it also being senior night. The Knights have now clinched the division with a 38-13 win over Cincinnati. They look onward to a rivalry game to end the season next week against USF in Tampa.



The Knights, fresh off a College GameDay visit and unanimous pick by the ESPN hosts, dominated the rising Cincinnati Bearcats 38-13 to become AAC East Division Champions.
Spectrum stadium recorded its second-largest crowd ever at 47,795 – nearly every fan stayed through the start of the first quarter and the gameday atmosphere was one of the best ever for UCF. 
When the Knights were called to the national stage – an ABC primetime broadcast and College GameDay visit – they answered by shutting down the Cincinnati offense for three straight quarters and stomping the defense game in and game out.
A rocky start for both teams, UCF especially with a sack, fumble, and touchdown recovery in their own end zone, and Cincinnati with a missed extra point, and early mistakes of their own evened out to allow the Knights a clear path to victory.
Stay tuned for the full game story.



By Dominique Smith
The lawn at Memory Mall looked a little different on Friday afternoon.
On one side of the lawn, fans hung out around the pitched tents near the ROTC building. In the middle of the lawn, fans played cornhole, while the rest of the fans gathered near the large College GameDay setup on the right side of the lawn.
Having ESPN’s College GameDay on campus ahead of the No. 11 Knight’s matchup against the No. 24 Cincinnati Bearcats is a wonderful experience for fans.
“It’s surreal, it’s so surreal seeing everyone out here the way it is, it’s more than I could ever dream of,” Ricardo Elizondo, senior environmental engineering major said.
This is the first time that College GameDay has come to UCF in its 25-year history. While different analysts have had conflicting opinions as to if UCF should be considered as a College Football Playoff contender, alumnus Daniel Selvia, class of 2017, hopes that GameDay crew feels welcome at UCF.
“I hope it’s a welcoming and hospitable environment to the crew,” he said. “Obviously they haven’t been great towards us in the past, but this is a time for us to be the bigger people and step up and show what UCF is all about.”
Troy Bennett graduated from UCF in 2002 and is a season ticket holder. He said that the coolest thing about having GameDay on campus is seeing how the growth of the program.
“We were here at games when there was a couple thousand people and now we’re packing the house,” he said. “All the little steps growing to this point is really neat to see over the years.”
Early bowl season projections do not have UCF making the College Football Playoffs. However, Bennett hopes that UCF gets the chance to prove themselves.
“Whenever we’ve been tested, we’ve done what we needed to do,” he said. “As a UCF fan and obviously a realistic person, yes, it would be a very tough challenge and there is a larger chance that we would lose, but there’s still that chance. And that would be really cool to see.”

Video from Knight News on Vimeo.



The CollegeDay crew said that the Knights defense will play a critical role in tonights game. 
Knight News got the chance to speak with Lee Corso, Desmond Howard and Rece Davis. While the three had conflicting views on whether the undefeated Knights’ defense will be effective against the Cincinnati Bearcats, they all  said they’d be watching that side of the ball.
Corso and Howard commended the way the Knights have been playing defense this year despite the amount of yards and points they have given up.”They play really good defense'” said Howard. The two even gave credit to Randy Shannon in what he has done in his first year here as the defensive coordinator.
The key take away from what the two said was going to be the Knights ability force turnovers.
While Corso and Howard think the Knights defense is fine, Davis thinks the Knights run defensive could cause them to struggle. “While UCF has been taking the ball away, they haven’t been this staunches defense in stoping the run,” said Davis.
The overall consensus from all three was that UCF will come away with the win, but it will not be an easy one, especially if the Knights defense doesn’t come to play.




University of Central Florida fans camped out overnight to get a primetime spot on ESPN’s College GameDay broadcast.
Thousands more showed up with signs across Memory Mall and Knight News camped out overnight to cover these die-hard Knights fans.

View the full College GameDay photo album on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10160963233675527&type=1&l=328ee7885f.
It was a beautiful Saturday morning for college football in Orlando – ESPN’s GameDay hosts agreed. Check out our live coverage surrounding the event on Facebook and Twitter.

Disney’s Mickey Mouse also made an appearance with fans, celebrating College GameDay and his 90th birthday.

No. 11 UCF will play No. 19 Cincinnati at 8 p.m. on ABC. Knight News will bring you coverage right from the field.



The University of Central Florida’s athletics program announced their lazy river will be coming soon after a generous $1 million donation from Tom ’88 and Stacey ’89 McNamara and their daughters Shannon, Erin, and Megan.
The $30 million Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village vision includes numerous improvements to the main campus including a new plaza, nutrition center, the lazy river, and more.
Previously, the lazy river was thought to be only for student-athletes but UCF Athletics announced Recovery Cove will be available to fans as a unique experience for tailgaters and corporate clients, while also generating revenue.

The river will cost less than $2 million and be funded entirely by private donations.
“The Athletics Village is where UCF student-athletes study, eat, train and compete,” said Tom McNamara.
“We are excited to help provide these exceptional young men and women a welcoming space to relax, socialize and study. This sort of facility will help build even more community amongst the student-athletes. It will also deliver a fun football game-day experience. Stacey, our daughters and I are thrilled to help UCF in this way.”
Director of Athletics Danny White envisioned a first-rate student-athlete experience at UCF and led the charge to fundraise. All the while, the Knights have gained national attention as college football’s current longest winning-team.
“Florida weather is one of our greatest competitive advantages,” UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Danny White said.
“UCF student-athletes have very demanding schedules. Having a recovery and leisure space so close to the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership and the Garvy Center for Student-Athlete Nutrition will significantly enhance the UCF student-athlete experience. Recovery Cove will also deliver one of college football’s most unique game-day premium experiences for UCF fans.”
 



