The Tampa Bay Times reported over 50,000 tickets sold for the War on I-4 game on Black Friday – the first time the upper bowl opened for a USF home game this season and the biggest crowd to attend a Bulls game since they hosted FSU in 2016.
USF football head coach Charlie Strong, when asked about the Knights coming to Tampa, said to media “I just don’t want them to come in and take over our stadium.”
Over 50,000 tickets have been sold for the War on I-4, the @TBTimes_Sports reports.
That would make the biggest home crowd for USF since 2016 when the Bulls hosted FSU https://t.co/nPcaiD0t33
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 20, 2018

The Bulls began their season with a 7-0 winning streak and an AP Top-25 berth alongside UCF and Cincinnati. Since their first loss of the season against Houston on October 27, the team has suffered from embarrassing defeats: Tulane, Cincinnati, Houston, Temple. The struggle began long before the Halloween weekend – close-shave wins against Tulsa, UConn, ECU were the canary in the coal mine.
Like, we are about to watch USF lose it’s 4th straight game, while C. gets gameday and will most likely roll to another conference championship, I’m fine it’s fine
— Steeg (@RobertSteegLife) November 17, 2018

The spread for the rivalry game is only two touchdowns, where the Knights usually break for about three or four. If the suppressing losses against their conference foes weren’t enough to motivate USF leading up to Friday, a chance at breaking the unbeaten streak from the school up the road would surely make up for it.
USF head coach Charlie Strong: “I just don’t want them to come in and take over our stadium”
Challenge accepted https://t.co/67wqlX7FOL
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 20, 2018

UCF plays at USF Friday at 4:15 p.m. Knight News will be there with a full crew to bring you coverage.
The Knights will host the AAC Championship again in Orlando after claiming victory over Cincinnati Saturday night. The winner of the West Division title will play UCF December 1 at 3:30 p.m. on ABC.
AAC Championship Returns to Orlando after UCF Wins East Division Title




The University of Central Florida will host the American Athletic Conference Championship game again in Orlando following Saturday night’s victory against Cincinnati.
The winner of the West Division title will travel to Orlando for a December 1 3:30 p.m. kickoff.
The University of Houston Cougars appeared to be on the path to becoming West Division Champions, however, Temple dashed their expressway to Orlando in a 59-49 decision on November 10. Now, the Cougars will compete with Memphis on Friday, November 23 for the title.
Will Memphis return to UCF for a second straight year to seek revenge? Should Tigers’ head coach Mike Norvell claim the Black Friday matchup, he would undoubtedly recall the nightmare of his last three meetings with the Knights: the only loss of their stellar 2017 regular season, stealing the AAC Championship in double-overtime by an end zone interception, and overcoming a three-score deficit in Memphis to hand Norvell a loss 30-31.
Cardiac Knights Defeat Memphis 62-55 in Overtime to become AAC Champions and Head to a New Year Year’s Six Bowl

Read more about how ESPN College GameDay host Kirk Herbstreit changed his mind on the UCF Football program:
Where Does UCF Stand in CFB? Kirk Herbstreit, Once Knights’ Biggest Critic, Ranks UCF at No. 7

 



