Groups of UCF students and families from surrounding Orlando communities gathered at Lake Claire for the first annual Knight-Thon Fall Festival on Saturday in an effort to raise money for Orlando’s local Children’s Miracle Network Hospital.
Knight-Thon is an annual, year-long event that aims to raise funds for Orlando Health Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children, as well as the neonatal intensive care unit at the Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women and Babies. Saturday’s event was one of many held throughout the year to steadily raise money, which concludes with a 20-hour dance marathon, where in 2018, raised $1,584,698.22, according to Knight-Thon’s website.
“Every dollar that we raise goes 100 percent back to [the hospitals], to help the greatest area of need of that hospital, said Brandon Huynh, 2018-2019 executive director of Knight-Thon.
The event had carnival-style games, a bounce house, pumpkin painting, an inflatable obstacle course, and was DJ’d by Knights of The Turntables. The event was free for all UCF students, and local community members could purchase tickets to play games. The money raised through ticket sales went into Knight-Thon’s charity fund.
“So far we’ve gotten a lot of positive reactions from the community to bring out their families, bring out their kids, to participate and learn what Knight-Thon is, and how it can benefit them and their community as well,” Huynh said.
Huynh said that the goal of Saturday’s event was aimed at bringing the Orlando Community and UCF Students together to have fun and learn more about Knight-Thon’s philanthropic efforts.
93E6A814-B426-4297-8BAD-80D5FFDB1642
“Knight-Thon fall fest is a way for us to connect to the Orlando community, to bring UCF students together for all different organizations to compete in fun games, meet our miracle families that are also out here, and also engage the Orlando community into what Knight-Thon is all about,” said Huynh.
“Miracle Families” — families who directly benefit from the funds raised each year, attended the event to meet with their sponsored sororities and fraternities, as well as to speak about their experiences with Knight-Thon’s charitable efforts.
Among the miracle families in attendance was Ayden, his brother J.J., and their mother, Tiffany.
Ayden began experiencing seizures in 2013. After he was taken to the hospital, it was discovered he had a tumor that was blocking the flow of fluid from his brain. He was rushed to UF Health Center Shands Hospital, where he underwent emergency brain surgery.
Ayden was only three at the time. Doctors told his mother he would become brain dead, or he would never walk, talk, or or have a normal life.
After 17 nearly consecutive surgeries and three brushes with death, they were referred to St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital, and after several months there, they moved to Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children.
She called Arnold Palmer her “home away from home,” and credits the hospital for saving her son’s life.
“We have come a very long way, and without the help of Arnold Palmer, my son would not be here to this day,” Tiffany said. Standing next her, Ayden stood and nodded — he was neither brain dead, unable to talk or walk.
While Tiffany said she does fundraising across the country with different charities and organizations, she credits Dance Marathons, like Knight-Thon, with being her favorite
“I know how much love and passion [they] have for our kids and for our hospitals,” Tiffany said.
More information on Knight-Thon and links for donation can be found on their website.



UCF looked to keep their winning streak alive against a very good Temple defense. The game was a shoot-out right off the back. Temple won the coin toss and chose to receive. The first play of the game was big run from Temple running back Ryquell Armstead for 34 yards. That momentum was stopped by the defense and they held Temple to a 41-yard field goal by Will Mobley giving them an early 3-0 lead. The ensuing drive for the Knights was all Adrian Killins. He returned the kick for 36 yards then on the next play Killins took off for 28. That drive was cut short and the Knights elected to kick a field goal that was blocked by the Owls. On the Knights, next drive on offense Milton hit Greg Davis on two back to back big plays. The first for 34 and the second for 29. Milton capped off the drive on the next play hitting Snelson in the corner of the end zone for a 19-yard touchdown reception giving the Knights the lead 7-3 after a Matthew Wright extra point. The Owls answered right back. Quarterback Anthony Russo hit Chris Myarick for 24 yards and then they converted on a 3rd and 16 on a Russo to Yancy Broderick 17 –yard reception. Russo hit Branden Mack on the next play for an 18-yard touchdown pass giving them the lead back at 10-7. The Knights offense stayed hot with three of their running backs Killins, McCrae, and McGowan leading UCF into Temple territory. After a big pass interference call in the end zone on Temple, Milton hit his favorite tight end Michael Colubiale for a 9-yard touchdown pass. This put them back up 14-10. Temple answered yet again on the next drive when Russo hit Randle Jones for a 70-yard touchdown pass, quickly putting the owls back on top 17-14. The Knights were then forced to punt after Milton uncharacteristically miss Tre Nixon twice deep. Temple got the ball back and drove down the field as Russo hit Bryant for 32 yards and then Branden Mack for 25, putting them into UCF territory once again to end the first quarter. UCF’s defense held the Owls twice in the red zone. The first time they held them to a field goal but were penalized for running into the kicker giving Temple another chance for 6. The Knights D stopped them again holding them to another field goal. This field goal was faked and quarterback Anthony Russo ran it in for a 5- yard touchdown. After the extra point temple extended their lead to 24-14. The shootout continued as Milton hit Snelson on the next drive for 57 yards followed by a 13-yard reception to Nixon. The Knights got pushed to 4th down and went for it. Milton took it himself for a 1-yard touchdown run decreasing temples lead to 24-21. Temples run game on the ensuing possession got them all the way deep into UCF territory but the Knights defense stayed strong and held them to a Mobley 21-yard field goal making the score 27-21. UCF was forced to punt on the next possession but the defense came out and forced a quick 3 and out on Temple. UCF’s offense took advantage. McCrae had a big rush for 19 yards followed later by a 11-yard rush to the one yard line by Marion Williams. The big back for the Knights #4 Tosh McGowan punched the ball in for a 1-yard touchdown run giving them the lead once again 28-27. Temple was not going into the half without a fight. Russo marched the Owls down field with two big rushes back to back one for 12 the next for 16. Russo ended the drive on a 15-yard touchdown pass to Bryant giving them the lead 34-28 going into half.
 
 
 
 
 
The Knights came out hot in the third quarter. They fed running back Greg McCrae. He had 3 carries back to back to back. The first two for 17 yards and the third for 32 yards which he took to the house. This gave UCF the lead back at 35-34 after another good extra point from Wright. Both teams punted on their next possessions. When the Knights got the ball back Killins started the drive with a big 15-yard reception. Then they fed McCrae again on a 9 yard and 10-yard rush. Milton then hit Colubiale on an acrobatic pass for a 19-yard touchdown increasing their lead to 42-34. The Knights defense gave up no points in the third quarter for the 5th time this year. They came out hard in the 4th quarter stopping temple once again deep in UCF territory. Temple was forced to kick a 40-yard field goal that Mobley missed giving the Knights the ball back. The Knights were driving until Milton was picked off by safety Delvon Randall. That pick led to points for Temple. The owls got into UCF territory and were forced to a 4th and 3 that they converted on. Russo then hit Bryant for an 8-yard touchdown pass that they went for 2 on and didn’t convert. Temple inched closer at 42-40. UCF’s offense answered on the next possession. Milton hit Marion Williams for a 19-yard reception, followed by a McCrae 14-yard rush, then a 12-yard reception to Killins. The drive was put away by McGowan on a 10-yard touchdown run. Wright’s extra point made the lead 49-40. Temple got the ball back and drove down the field once again with a couple of big throws from Russo. Trysten Hill stopped that momentum by sacking Russo forcing a 4th and 20 that the Owls went for and couldn’t convert. They turned the ball back over to Milton and the offense. McCrae continued to ball as he took off for 12 yards and then another rush for 40 after breaking a few tackles. The Knights let the clock run as they brought out Matthew Wright for a 32-yard field goal that he buried making the game now out of reach at 52-40 with a 1:36 left.
UCF keeps their 21-game winning streak alive as they took down a tough opponent in Temple 52-40. The Knights were led by running back Greg McCrae who finished the game with 188 rushing yards. As the Knights move to 8-0 on the year they will look to keep this momentum going next week against another tough AAC opponent in Navy on homecoming week.



The University of Central Florida dropped two spots to No. 11 in the country in the AP Poll after its Saturday performance against Temple that ended in a 52-40 victory.
The new position matches closer to what the College Football Playoff Committee has the Knights at: Number 12, however, teams that struggled with their opponents such as Ohio State against Nebraska did not see the same effect. LSU suffered a shutout at home yet remained in the top ten.
The Knights are surrounded by two-loss teams that have no chance at reaching the playoffs.
No. 9 UCF Downs Temple 52-40 to take First Place in American Athletic Conference

UCF Extends winning streak to 21 With a Win Over Temple




