The family of McKenzie Milton updated his status through UCF Football Saturday to let Knight Nation know the surgery was a success and McKenzie is recovering well.
“The Milton family would like to express gratitude for all of your throughs, prayers, and concerns. McKenzie’s surgery was successful and he is recovering well,” the update said.
“We would like to thank the medical staffs at Tampa General Hospital, University of South Florida, and the sports medicine staff at UCF for their superb care. McKenzie looks forward to rejoining his teammates in Orlando and supporting them in their quest to bring another conference championship to our program.”
“Remember what Ohana means. No one gets left behind.”
#BREAKING: McKenzie Milton’s family releases statement through UCF football: pic.twitter.com/2vGuN3qGYi
— UCF Knight News | OHANA (@UCFKnightNews) November 24, 2018

The UCF community is calling on the football program to wear the 808 area code and “Ohana” on the back of their helmets while fans wear Hawaiian shirts and leas to Saturday’s championship game.
Knights Fans Call on UCF Football to Honor Milton with “808” Area Code, “Ohana” on Saturday’s Game Helmets

Milton suffered from a devasting knee injury while running a QB keep in the second quarter of the USF game.
Read more:
McKenzie Milton confirmed to undergo surgery, Tampa media reports




University of Central Florida fans quickly took to social media to support quarterback McKenzie Milton and the rest of the team with one fan, among others, suggesting to UCF Football that they honor Milton with the “808” area code and “Ohana” on the back of Saturday’s championship helmets.
Next week every UCF player should have 808 area code and the plate on the back of the helmet should say “Ohana”.
— Mike (@MDKnight2016) November 24, 2018

The 808 area code belongs to the Hawaiian Islands of which Milton proudly represented over the years with UCF football.
Another fan tweeted an idea that circulated involving fans wearing Hawaiian leis to Saturday’s game. A reply to that tweet came from someone who ordered 75 leis to arrive on Thursday. The UCF bookstore sell’s leis as does Amazon, and nearby oriental trade shops.
Someone just tweeted that we should all wear a lei next game in honor of McKenzie Milton. I love that idea.
If you like please retweet and let’s make it happen.@UCFDannyWhite
— UCF 17…Ron (@ucf17rj) November 24, 2018

I ordered 75 from Oriental Trading and they are due to arrive on Thursday.
— Kelly EricksonFowler (@UCFKel) November 24, 2018

The Knights will host Memphis once again in the AAC Championship Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
At next Saturday’s AAC Championsip game, how should Knight Nation honor Milton?:
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 24, 2018




Tampa news stations reported junior quarterback McKenzie Milton had emergency surgery on his right knee in order to restore blood flow to his leg.
Milton’s right knee dislocated during the second quarter of the UCF-USF football game, according to Tampa’s WTSP, and the quarterback’s knee was popped back into place by doctors.
Here’s what I know regarding #UCF’s McKenzie Milton. Early indication was its a dislocated knee, which cut off blood circulation. They did pop his knee back in place and doctors are with him. No confirmation of surgery, but he is at the hospital.
— Ryan Bass (@Ry_Bass) November 24, 2018

An NFL doctor expanded on Twitter the type of injury that took place, stating emergency surgery would be needed to restore blood flow before permanent muscle damage formed, typically a few hours after the injury occurs.
This situation is similar to #ZachMiller @ChicagoBears.
Undoubtedly emergency surgery to restore blood flow as permanent muscle damage occurs within hours if circulation not restored. https://t.co/bISj8JsEk9
— David J. Chao, MD (@ProFootballDoc) November 24, 2018

Dislocated knee confirmed.
Likely emergency surgery to “save” his leg comes next as artery likely disrupted. This is a #ZachMiller @ChicagoBears situation. Wish this athlete the best but any @NFL dreams are likely over. https://t.co/eHcbYaJiGA
— David J. Chao, MD (@ProFootballDoc) November 24, 2018

Tampa General Hospital will update Milton’s condition Saturday morning.
The Knights went on to score four more touchdowns and a field goal to win the War on I-4 and claim another perfect season. Greg McCrae accounted for three touchdowns.
Memphis will travel to Orlando on Saturday, December 1 for the AAC Championship.



