Nearly one week after the polls closed in the state of Florida, the nation watches as results of state’s senatorial, gubernatorial, and agricultural commissioner races remain uncertain.
On Friday around 5 p.m., Knight News sent a Public records request to the office of Broward County Election Supervisor Brenda Snipes, for:
“The six (6) most recent emails the Supervisor has received from (i) the Scott Campaign (including any of its representatives or affiliates), and (ii) the Nelson Campaign (including any of its representatives or affiliates).
The six (6) most recent emails the Supervisor has sent from (i) the Scott Campaign (including any of its representatives or affiliates), and (ii) the Nelson Campaign (including any of its representatives or affiliates).”
Knight News asked Snipes’ office that these record be produced within 24 hours given the newsworthiness of this story.
As of Saturday, at 5 p.m., Snipes’ office has not fulfilled Knight News’ public record request. 
Currently, Republicans Rick Scott and Ron Desantis are winning the senatorial and gubernatorial races by 12,562 and 33,684 votes respectively, according to the New York Times. Democrat Nikki Fried is leading her race for agricultural commissioner by 2,915 votes, according to CBS Miami.
A statewide recount is set to begin tomorrow and must be completed by Thursday Nov. 15 at 3 p.m..
Earlier this week, a judge said that Snipes violated florida’s public record laws by “not fulfilling a request for that ( an accounting of total ballots cast and a breakdown of votes by category) information by Scott’s campaign,” according to The Miami Herald.



Was UCF’s 35-24 win over Navy impressing enough to the CFP committee to consider moving UCF up in the rankings this week?
The first half sure looked like the Knights were on their way to doing just that.
The Knights scored 21 points and the defense held Navy to only 3. The Knights defense very uncharacteristically played great in the first half and completely fell apart in the second half.
 This is a different look for the Knights as they usually make most of the defensive mistakes in the first half and make adjustments at halftime for the second half. The Knights defense continued to struggle on stopping the run. They gave up 168 rushing yards in the first half and 206 in the second half combing for 374 total rushing yards.
UCF gave up more points in the second half, giving up 3 touchdowns to the Midshipmen. Wrapping up and filling big holes on the defensive line continue to plague the UCF defense as teams continue to expose their run defense. Allowing Navy to score 24 points after Cincinnati shut them out 42-0 the week prior means it is not looking good for the Knights in the eyes of the CFP committee.
College football fans continue to hear about passing the eye test when it comes to teams performances out on the field.
 As of right now, the Knights offense continues to pass that test, but the defense continues to fail. If the Knights want to have any chance at moving up in the rankings the defense is going to have to make some major adjustments. With two huge games against Cincinnati and USF coming up in the next two weeks the Knights can do nothing but continue to win football games.
With the struggles on defense, the Knights were still able to hold off the Navy Midshipmen 35-24 as they further their winning streak to 22-games.
Stay tuned for a full recap of the game.



