The mother and father of UCF quarterback McKenzie Milton released a statement to media early Tuesday afternoon through Tampa General Hospital.
“On behalf of our son, Mckenzie Milton, and our family, we want to thank the doctors and nurses at Tampa General Hospital and the University of South Florida and UCF medical staff and athletic trainers for their teamwork and prompt attention to McKenzie’s injuries. His blood flow has been restored to his right leg and his nerve is injured but intact.”
“He is recovering and healing and is receiving the best medical care. At a later time, he will have reconstructive surgery to repair his knee. That date has not been determined at this time. Mckenzie and our entire family are so touched and grateful for the prayers, support, and well wishes. Mckenzie is in good spirits and has a very positive attitude.”
According to the update, McKenzie will be cheering on UCF as they face Memphis Saturday in the AAC Championship at 3:30.
UCF to Distribute 40,000 Leis Saturday at AAC Championship

“He looks forward to cheering on his teammates in their quest for another conference championship this Saturday. At this time, Mckenzie would like to maintain his privacy to get the proper rest, medical care, and healing before he grants any interviews. We appreciate everyone’s understanding of this request. Knight Nation is part of our Ohana and we feel very blessed as a family. Aloha. Mark & Teresa Milton.”
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football news.



University of Central Florida alumnus Adam Rosen, son of former Trustee and Philanthropist Harris Rosen, succumbed to a battle with cancer Saturday night at the age of 26, Rosen Hotels & Resorts said.
“Today, with heavy hearts, the Rosen Hotels & Resorts family honors the passing and celebrates the life of a most beloved family member,” the Facebook post said.
“Adam Michael Rosen, 26, started working at the Shingle Creek golf course when he was 14 as a summer job. His eye for detail led his career path to work in the Rosen Standards department, where he excelled in maintaining and improving the quality of service our guests know and love and where his touch and care can still be felt. His smile and laugh were spread to all he encountered and will be fondly remembered.”
Adam not only fought cancer but raised money for families whose children suffered from cancer. A non-profit foundation will be made in Adam’s name to continue helping families.
The Rosen family is responsible for UCF’s first-class Rosen College of Hospitality Management; Harris Rosen is an Orlando hotelier and philanthropist and owns nine Orlando-area hotels, donating $28 million to UCF.
“To honor him we will be lighting up the hotels green, his favorite color, one day for every year of his life in addition to starting a foundation in his name so that other young lives touched by cancer can be assisted in their own fights. We ask that you please respect the Rosen family’s privacy as they focus on all the good memories and celebrate his life.”
A celebration of Adam Michael Rosen’s life will be held at a private event. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Adam Michael Rosen Foundation, Inc. at 9840 International Dr., Orlando, Florida 32819.



On Saturday, December 1, UCF will distribute 40,000 leis in honor of injured quarterback McKenzie Milton, who is still recovering at Tampa General Hospital, in what UCF Athletics dubs #10hana spirit.
UCF alumnus Sanjay Sam Srinivasan, the owner of Global Promo Orlando custom apparel, donated a large number of leis on short notice in an effort to support his alma mater.
“Global Promo and owner Sanjay Sam Srinivasan deserve a huge thank you for donating a large number of these leis,” UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Danny White said.
“Sanjay is a UCF alumnus and season ticket holder and he was integral in helping us put this together. The UCF Student Government Association generously donated a number of leis, as well. Our students have been incredible supporters of the team all season and they continue to do so through this gesture.”
No. 7 UCF will face Memphis once again in the American Athletic Conference Championship. Kickoff will be at 3:30 p.m. – stay tuned with Knight News for full game and #10hana coverage.
McKenzie Milton Walks for First Time Since Injury, says Teammate Jordan Johnson

Photo: UCF Athletics Communications



