When the University of Central Florida flew to Memphis, its unbeaten record in tow, most fans would expect another decisive win as UCF built its playoff bid.
What they got instead was a nightmare scenario in the pouring rain, trailing by three scores at halftime a thousand miles from home. Heupel, on 4th and 1 at his own 29 and desperate for a momentum shift, went bold to take his back off the wall. Taj McGowan and Trysten Hill plowed right through a crowded defensive line and made a fast break downfield for a touchdown. 
Memphis would be outperformed the next thirty minutes, unable to score another point to compliment the thirty earned in the first half.
The game drew a rating of 2.4 (3.9 million) when College Football’s playoff-hopeful was on the ropes on ABC, ESPN2, and every Saturday score ticker 17-30 behind the 4-2 Tigers.
The Knights played to their advantage (a McKenzie Milton under pressure) and led with a QB keep to close the score at 31-30. Memphis would lose time rushing to a scoring range and Mike Norvell’s nightmare encounters with UCF would renew.
Read the full game story below:
Undefeated No. 10 UCF overcomes adversity with fourth quarter comeback in Memphis

Photo: UCF Athletics Communications



The men’s basketball team at the University of Central Florida will be at full strength at the start of the 2018 season with seniors B.J. Taylor and Tacko Fall, and Aubrey Dawkins, head coach Johnny Dawkins’ son.
The Knights have been picked to win the American Athletic Conference ahead of the season for the first time in its Division I history with 114 points (6 first place votes), ahead of defending champion Cincinnati.
UCF struggled in the previous season to reach its potential with injuries to blame – Aubrey and B.J., namely – and an uneven depth chart to cap their success at 19-13. Only one starter will be absent from the previous roster, translating to an experienced squad under the guidance of Dawkins. In the 2016-17 season, UCF had its best season ever in Dawkins’ first year as it trailblazed through to the NIT Tournament in Madison Square Garden, NYC with victories against ranked Cincinnati, Iowa, and Iowa State.
Taylor was picked as the preseason American Athletic Conference Player of the Year with Fall also receiving preseason all-conference honors.
The opening game will take place at CFE Arena on November 6 at 6:30 p.m. against Rider.
COMPLETE POLL
1. UCF (6) – 114
2. Cincinnati (3) – 107
3. Houston (2) – 103
4. Memphis (1) – 85
5. UConn – 75
6. Temple – 74
7. SMU – 63
8. Wichita State – 60
9. Tulsa – 48
10. Tulane – 23
11. ECU – 22
12. S. Florida – 18
INDIVIDUAL HONORS
Preseason Player of the Year
B.J. Taylor, guard – UCF
Preseason Freshman of the Year
Nate Hinton, guard – Houston
Preseason All-Conference
First Team
Jalen Adams, guard – UConn *
Jarron Cumberland, guard – Cincinnati
Jeremiah Martin, guard – Memphis
Quinton Rose, guard – Temple
B.J. Taylor, guard – UCF
Second Team ^
Corey Davis, Jr., guard – Houston
Tacko Fall, center – UCF
Jarrey Foster, guard – SMU
Markis McDuffie, forward – Wichita State
Jahmal McMurray, guard – SMU
Sterling Taplin, guard – Tulsa
*unanimous selection
^extra member due to tie in voting



