     Christopher Wolf wrote this article.
     The University of Central Florida Knights (4-0,1-0) defeated the University of Pittsburgh Panthers (2-3, 1-1) 45-14 Saturday at Spectrum Stadium. UCF’s defense played strong, they held the Panthers scoreless throughout the first half. Late in the fourth quarter Pittsburgh’s quarterback Kenny Pickett threw a 58-yard touchdown to wide receiver Maurice French for their only offensive score of the game.
     The Knights held Pitt to just 272 yards of total offense after getting burned for 36 points and 447 yards of total offense last week versus Florida Atlantic. The Knights came into this game giving up 239 rushing yards a game, and they were able to hold the Panthers rushing attack to only 109 rushing yards on 33 carries. That’s an improvement from last week when they gave up 320 rushing yards versus Florida Atlantic.
     The Knights pass defense was sharp today only giving up 163 passing yards. Free safety Richie Grant had a second quarter interception, his third of the season. The defense was also able to get to the quarterback for three sacks.  Nate Evans finished the game with a career high 11 tackles to go along with his first career half-sack. Randy Charlton also got his first career sack in the first quarter.
     The Knights had five pass break-ups in the game. This was the third game this season that the Knights defense had five or more pass break-ups. With the interception tonight, the Knights defense has forced at least one turnover in each of the last 23 games dating back to 2016.
     The Knights defense will be tested next week when the SMU Mustangs come to Spectrum Stadium.
 



UCF quarterback McKenzie Milton, a Heisman hopeful, surpassed alumnus Blake Bortles in career passing TDs and touchdowns responsible for at 60 and 76 Saturday afternoon.
The Knights dismantled Pittsburgh 45-14 at home where Milton was responsible for all six touchdowns: QB keeps, chip-in passes, and an explosive 71-yard TD pass from Killins. The Panthers offensive nor defense stood a chance at stopping the Knights from claiming a victory.
Bortles led UCF to its first New Year’s Six bowl as an underdog with only Baylor in the way of history. The 2013 squad (12-1, 8-0) stunned the college football world with a record-setting 52-42 win over the Bears in the Fiesta Bowl. Bortles set multiple career and UCF records that season and went on to lead the Jacksonville Jaguars – the Jaguars would all but make it to the Super Bowl in 2017.
Both Bortles and Milton set the records in three years; Blake would move on to the NFL and Milton began as a freshman in 2016. Daunte Culpepper holds the first place record at 84 touchdowns from his 1995-98 collegiate career.
Milton tied his single-game touchdown record set against Memphis in 2017 with Florida Atlantic in week 4 – three rushing and three passing touchdowns – and with Pitt in week 5: two rushing and four passing touchdowns. In his 11th game over 300 yards, the Heisman hopeful kept pace with his high-scoring offense at 48.75 average points per game this season.
It would be hard not to send an invite, if not the trophy, for Milton to go to New York.
No. 13 UCF Dismantles the ACC’s Pitt 45-14 in the Sunshine State




Both UCF and Pitt fought to gain momentum at the game opening Saturday afternoon but it would be UCF who overcame deep in the first quarter to take a lead.
Milton passed to Killins for a 64-yard gain to take it to the 5-yard line, tripping up against Pitt safeties in the Red Zone, feet from the House. After getting stuffed at the line by the Pitt defense on a QB keeper, Milton ran for try two against the D-line and made a stretch for the end zone for six points and his 71st career touchdown (responsible for).
The career milestone tied 4th in UCF Football with alumnus Blake Bortes, the only other quarterback to lead the team to a New Year’s Six bowl aside from Milton. McKenzie soon broke that record to become 4th all-time in passing touchdowns.
Milton made it a two-score game after a first quarter 1:44 drive and touchdown pass to Gabe Davis in the end zone. The Knights defense picked up where they left off and dismantled Pitt QB Kenny Pickett with a one-on-one sack at the Panther’s 8-yard line to make it second and long, forcing them to punt two plays later.
The Panthers returned with an 85-yard touchdown, the first against UCF since 2012. Their score improved 7-14 minutes into the game – it would be their only score of the game.
The Heisman hopeful earned his second rushing touchdown only ten seconds after the second quarter opened and in two more successful tries, Milton finished the half with four touchdowns responsible for – an easy chip to Columbiale at the third-yard line to close the second quarter.
The UCF defense had its bad moments Saturday but for certain we can say Randy Shannon delivered against Pitt – no Panther made it to the end zone on offense in the first three quarters. Pitt suffered from short unsuccessful drives while getting stuff at the line or playing for a loss and an adrenaline start sank quickly in the 98-degree heat index.
Milton did, however, escape interceptions twice on opponent penalties through the game which undoubtedly would have led to scoring drives from Pittsburgh. In 2017, McKenzie threw 9 interceptions, filling a third of that statistic in just the first two games of 2018. The quarterback recovered each time but interceptions remain a small Achille’s Heel.
A 71-yard touchdown pass saw Killins sprint down the field with Pitt safeties long in tow. It would be Milton’s 11th career 300 passing yard game. The last scoring drive of the day came from Milton to Otis Anderson to make it 45-14.
Next up is SMU (1-3) on Saturday at 7 p.m.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football.



The University of Central Florida will get full consideration by the College Football Playoff Committee should they keep winning, according to the CFP Director Bill Hancock.
The Knights have the nation’s longest win streak at 16, yet, those sympathetic to the underdog say that even in 2017 UCF should have been placed higher on their list, even if they didn’t make the playoffs.
“Yes, there is a path,” Hancock said Thursday before the UNC-Miami game in Miami.
“UCF got full consideration from the committee last year. I believe the committee at the end of the season had ranked UCF higher than the sportswriters and the coaches had. So they got every consideration and they had a wonderful season.”
Even prior to Hancock’s statement, another season sweep by the Knights in 2018 couldn’t be ignored; an uproar would take place, and even legal action from UCF against the CFP would be a possibility if the former were shut out from competing at the highest stage.
UCF has kept pace in the 2018 season openers after the departure of Scott Frost and crew. It’s as if no time had passed (give or take a few bad streaks on defense). And its otherwise worrisome opponents this time around have run into trouble of their own: UNC with an embarrassing defeat by ECU, Pitt with a close loss against UNC, Memphis with losses against both Navy and a 1-3 Tulane. Not to mention USF and their nailbiting comeback against Illinois and one score win up from a 1-2 ECU in week 4.
It’s looking more like a repeat for UCF should Heupel and Milton keep stride. 
“For the path, play a good schedule, win your games,” Hancock said, “and you’re going to be in the hunt for the College Football Playoff.”
Stay tuned with Knight News as we cover Pitt at Spectrum Stadium.



