By: Ryan Woerner
For years, conservative and liberal students would attend a bi-partisan 9-11 memorial on campus to remember those who lost their lives that fateful day– but this tradition was broken this year.
As Knight News previously reported, the College Democrats did not attend a 9-11 memorial  on campus to honor those who lost their lives in the worst terror attack on the US. mainland after being invited by conservative group, Young Americans for Freedom.
Knights News went to the College Democrats weekly meeting this evening to find out why no one from the group attended the event.
The College Democrats leadership told Knight News they were aware of the invitation from YAF Secretary, Carter Lankes, however none of the College Democrats’ members could attend due to “conflicts of time,” according to Vice President of the College of Democrats Sophia Garduno.
Garduno went on to explain the club posted about the event in a discussion board asking if anyone could go. “We wanted to be able to make the memorial service so we can remember those who lost their lives,” Garduno said.
Garduno went on to explain the importance of this day in American history. “This is a day in which we need to come together as people and not be divided by our party affiliation,” she said.
Garduno said the club was looking forward to this annual event, and coming together with their fellow students to honor those who lost their lives 17-years-ago.
Garduno said the club will honor the victims of 9-11 with a moment of silence during the club’s meeting tonight.



The University of Central Florida and the University of North Carolina canceled their Saturday football matchup ahead of Hurricane Florence, which is expected to make landfall Thursday as a Category 4.
Both programs offer full refunds for tickets, however, do not have plans to reschedule just yet.
“First and foremost, our thoughts are with everyone who may be affected by this storm,” UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Danny White said. “The priority must be safety for everyone in the path of the hurricane. Having been through similar situations the past two years, we certainly understand this decision. We wish UNC the best of luck through this storm and for the rest of the year.”
“North Carolina and UCF officials stated any tickets purchased through the respective school will be refunded automatically and as quickly as possible. There is no need to contact either school’s ticket office regarding refunds.”
UCF stated a game replacement at the end of October would be unlikely, as the Knights play Temple on Thursday, November 1.
“I’m confident our student-athletes will adjust to this change,” UCF head coach Josh Heupel said. “Many of them have, unfortunately, been through similar scenarios here the last two seasons. Our concern is with the safety of everyone being affected by the storm. Our team will turn its focus toward the game with FAU and we look forward to seeing all of Knight Nation back out at Spectrum Stadium next Friday.”
Photo: UCF Athletics Communications



On Sept. 11, 2001, the world changed forever.
Seventeen years later, at the University of Central Florida, thirteen College Republicans, members of Young Americans for Freedom (YAF) and Turning Point USA associates arrived on campus at 7 a.m. to place 3,000 miniature American Flags to remember those who were killed that fateful day.
The group planted the flags in the shape of “9-11” depicting the date of the worst terrorist attack on the U.S. mainland. The group hoped that seeing these flags would give students the opportunity to reflect on this national tragedy.
“9-11 was a moment when everyone came together,” YAF Secretary Carter Lankes said. “I just want people to remember what happened.”
Lankes invited the College Democrats to the event via Facebook. The group responded and said they will share the event with others; however, no one from the College Democrats showed up this morning. Knight News reached out to the college Democrats for comment but did not receive a response.
“I think it’s important on 9-11 of all days to forget whether you’re Democrat, Republican or anything in between,” College Republican Secretary Luke Strominger said. “It really defines us as Americans, even if it’s just for one day. It’s important to remember our values and remember what those people sacrificed on that day.”
The flags will remain planted in the free speech lawn between the Math and Science Building and the Reflecting Pond until 5 p.m. today.



