The University of Central Florida will introduce a new mobile ticketing platform for students this Fall to improve the entry process at football games.
Students now have access to the UCFStudentTix.com platform through their smart device that allows your free ticket (and guest passes) to be claimed. The platform also allows for ticket tracking and direct communication to take place in a more efficient manner.
“Coming off our undefeated, National Championship season, interest in UCF Football tickets is at an all-time high,” UCF Athletics said in an email to students.
“With nearly 8,500 new season tickets sold, our incredible fan base is growing. We know that you are also extremely excited about this upcoming football season and we expect the student sections to fill up quickly.”
Once you’ve signed up, you will receive notification when student tickets go live for each home game. Active UCF ID cards will still be needed at the gate entrance but will no longer be scanned. Claiming a ticket, however, does not guarantee admittance into a game.
UCF Athletics has step-by-step videos on their social media platforms and UCFKnights.com to assist in the process.
“I look forward to seeing all of you at Spectrum Stadium this fall. You –our students — are integral in creating a great game-day atmosphere. You are the Knightmare! Your peers, who are representing our university in competition, appreciate your support,” said UCF.



The 21st Century Student Union project will complete its first phase and open to the public after Labor Day 2018.
The September 3 opening includes Qdoba, Panda Express, Huey Magoos, and Which Wich in addition to the already existing Cafe Bustelo, Chili’s, Mrs. Fields Bakery, and Smoothie King. Steak N Shake will open in Spring 2019, according to UCF.

“The food court was built 20 years ago and needed to be updated to meet students’ needs today,” says David Oglethorpe, assistant director for the Student Union.

“That includes the offerings, such as more vegetarian and vegan options, as well as the number of students it can accommodate. We really want to make sure the Student Union remains the heart of campus and that students want to spend time here.”
The second phase will include 350 additional seating options on the first and second floors and a new stairwell near the food court leading to a new second-floor cafe and lounge. The lounge on the second floor will include a coffee shop and spaces for students to meet and study, according to UCF.
The renovated Student Union will add an additional 15,000 square feet, while increasing opportunities for meaningful interactions, UCF said.



The Walt Disney World Company announced a tuition-assistance program Wednesday for its hourly workers who wish to complete a college degree, high school diploma, or learn a new skill.
The Disney Aspire program will roll out in phases – limited to online classes in the first phase – but will add in-person classes if there is enough demand.
Eighty thousand Disney workers qualify for the program, which will receive $50 million initially and $25 million on top of that for each subsequent year. Online students may receive upfront tuition coverage as soon as this Fall.
“We can’t wait to see what paths our cast members take with Disney Aspire,” Disney said.
Disney’s program is being administered by Guild Education, the same Denver-based firm operating Walmart’s program, according to the Walt Disney Company.



Olive Garden’s popular Never Ending Pasta Pass will go on sale Thursday at 2 p.m.
The pass typically sells out within moments and includes all-you-can-eat pasta at Olive Garden.
The two pass options are an 8-week pass for $100 plus tax and a 52-week pass for $300 plus tax. 
For more information visit https://www.pastapass.com/.



