Sunday’s morning press conference with Fiesta Bowl Executive Director Mike Nealy and Fiesta Bowl Board of Directors Chairman Steven Leach brought up an interesting topic of conversation the College Football Playoffs.
One thing was for sure both Nealy and Leach do not believe in expanding the Playoffs. Nealy said that the four team system was adequate and works fine.
On Thursday Nealy spoke with AZCentral.com and said the following:
“And then college football itself is changing,” said Nealy. “The playoffs, the talk of expanding playoffs, that could bring in more challenges for the bowls. I think that could start diluting the regular season and also other bowls.”
Earlier in the press conference Leach said he is convinced that this matchup on New Year’s Day is one of the “most unique bowl” matchups this season. He said, UCF and LSU are both very dynamic teams who are on different ends of the spectrum. When asked to elaborate on that he said both are great teams but there are just differences in the programs.
We will have more coverage for you on the 2019 Fiesta Bowl, make sure to check back to knightnews.com for more articles. Follow us on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook for all the latest information.



The University of Central Florida earned 25 straight victories after tossing Memphis out of the conference championship.
That number places the Knights at the 23rd-longest streak in college football history (tied six ways) and only one game away from tying a record made 22 years ago when Nebraska won out in 1994-95.
If UCF finishes another perfect season, they will be the first to do so since the 1994-95 Nebraska Cornhuskers
Miami (FL, 2001-02) and FSU (2013-14) had their perfect consecutive records cleaned in the Rose Bowl & Fiesta Bowl.
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) October 1, 2018

The 2000-2003 Miami squad earned 34-straight wins through almost three years but fell to Ohio State in none other than the Fiesta Bowl in Phoenix, Arizona. The record began on September 24, 2000 with a 47-10 victory at West Virginia. The Hurricanes lost two weeks earlier against Washington 29-34 which prevented consecutive season win outs.
The 2013-14 Florida State squad earned 29 straight, decisively claiming 14 wins in 2013 and shakily finishing 13-0 before facing Oregon in the Rose Bowl and falling short 20-59.
Nebraska head coach Tom Osborne led the Cornhuskers through two flawless seasons and bowl games to secure what would be a 23-year old record heading into the 2018 season’s Fiesta Bowl. The Huskers’ current head coach – Scott Frost – gave Osborne his third national championship and another undefeated season in 1997.
Both season squads dominated the college football world and crushed No. 2 Florida 62-24 in the 1996 Fiesta Bowl.
The Knights will play LSU in the Fiesta Bowl to either tie the record or drop from the spotlight. The Tigers, SEC pundits, and the like, know the Knights will put up a fight. The loss of McKenzie Milton drew fears that UCF would not keep up, but as quickly as they arrived the fears dissipated with Darriel Mack, Jr. at the helm.
UCF will be a one-score underdog heading into the New Year’s game. Baylor took the field as 17-point favorites, but crumbled in the 52-42 decision against QB Blake Bortles and head coach George O’Leary. Auburn took the field as 9.5-point favorites but stalled to allow a 34-27 final score.
LSU opened as 10-point favorites but the spread narrowed to 7.5. The Tigers’ defense took several hits as top cornerbacks, among others, opted to skip the game to prepare for the NFL Draft, recover from injuries, or face suspension.
A win for UCF in the 2019 Fiesta Bowl would secure a spot in the history books and open up the opportunity to rise in the ranks of college football’s index of winning teams.



