A UCF Fraternity and students are being sued by an Arizona woman after she alleged that her boyfriend shared “revenge porn” videos of her to the fraternity during a meeting and were posted to a secret Facebook group called “the dog pound,” according to court records.
Brandon Simpson, Delta Sigma Phi and four other fraternity brothers are all being sued by Kathryn Novak, who is being represented by Michael Avenatti, according to court records. Avenatti gained notoriety after representing adult film actress Stormy Daniels in her lawsuit against President Donald Trump.
Novak, a student from Prescott, Arizona, was in a long distance relationship with Simpson, a UCF student and member of Delta Sigma Phi fraternity from October of 2017 to February of 2018. They visited each other during this time, and on more than one occasion, had consensual sexual relations at Simpson’s apartment, according to court documents.
Simpson recorded at least one of these encounters, and in October of 2017, shared the video during a meeting with Delta Sigma Phi, and proceeded to send the video to at least five other members of the fraternity, according to court documents. 
“Defendants Delta Sigma Phi and University of Central Florida permitted a “frat boy” culture to predominate with respect to Delta Sigma Phi and failed to reign in the excessess,” the complaint document read.
A Facebook group called “the dog pound,” where members of Delta Sigma Phi shared photos and videos of their “sexual conquests” also facilitated Novak’s image, according to court documents.
“On information and belief, members of the Delta Sigma Phi fraternity used “the dog pound” page to post nude videos and nude pictures of their girlfriends and other unwitting female victims, including images depicting the young women engaged in private sexual activities,” the documents reads.
Novak found out about the video of her after Simpson received a text from a fraternity brother in her company mentioning the video of her, and she confronted him about it. He admitted to her about the video and “dog pound” Facebook page, according to court documents.
The New York Times reported on Thursday evening that Delta Sigma Phi has suspended it’s chapter at UCF.
“While we cannot comment on specific allegations made in the lawsuit, these claims are disturbing and antithetical to our organization’s values and mission,” the fraternity said, according to the Times.
UCF has issued a statement regarding the lawsuit. “These allegations are contrary to our core values. Although UCF is not a party to the suit, we are gathering information. If anyone believes they may have been impacted in this case, we want to hear from you. Visit www.LetsBeClear.ucf.edu to learn about options for filing a report and seeking assistance.” 
So far, it appears Simpson is not speaking with media, but Knight News will seek comment from him. This is a breaking story, and more details will be posted as they come. 



