Every August, hundreds of girls run from the Student Union to their new sorority houses after a week of tours, events and meetings with countless sorority sisters—but this year, the recruitment tradition was changed.
Instead of the traditional run home, the new sorority sisters were bussed from the Student Union to their respective homes, according to multiple sources familiar with the situation.
While it is still unclear why the University of Central Florida has decided to ban the run this year, many speculate it may be because of an injury last year.
“A girl that was running last year broke her collarbone when she and another girl tackled each other,” Kate Herbert of Kappa Kappa Gamma told Knight News.
While many in the UCF community do not approve of this new change, Interfraternity Council President/ Student Government Association Vice President, Jad Shalhoub, thinks this change “outweighs the cons.”
“The change is nominal to the overall effect of the activity, honestly,” Shalhoub said. “Instead of girls running in the heat from the union to Greek park, they are now getting shuttled. Not only will this be more comfortable for them, but it also creates a more inclusive experience for some who might be disabled, and prevents the chance of injury due to tripping etc.”
Knight News followed up with Shalhoub and asked if he would support changing other UCF traditions—such as Spirit Splash—that are even less inclusive to disabled people than sorority Bid day.
“Im sure you could find a handful of different things you could parallel to this Bid Day situation and ask this question,” Shalhoub said. “Making people feel included is definitely important, but how we do that takes different forms for different activities.”
Knight News will continue to investigate this Bid Day change and also look into whether or not other traditions may be altered.
Knight News reached out to UCF’s public relations staff who did not immediately respond.
For years there has been a push to prevent fraternity members from participating in the Sorority Bid Day experience. In 2014, their was an attempt to ban signs and other celebration material made by fraternity members for the event.
For those who are unfamiliar with Sorority Bid day, check out Knight News’ coverage from last years event below.




