A clinic in Apopka created by UCF faculty allows students to collaborate and provide healthcare services to farmworkers who wouldn’t have access otherwise.
The clinic is a service learning opportunity, where students from different disciplines work together gaining real-world experience that will help them become more prepared entering the workforce, said Heather Peralta, Ph.D., a nurse and college of nursing faculty member.
“I’ve seen a huge development across disciplines, they’re starting to talk to each other about each other’s scope of practice… they’re starting to see how each role is very important and we’re all part of a bigger puzzle to make healthcare work,” Peralta said.
Peralta saw the need for this clinic in her hometown of Apopka where many farmworkers are uninsured and can’t afford medical care. She and Doctor Judith Simms-Cendan, director of International Experiences at UCF and professor of obstetrics and gynecology, helped setup this clinic after medical missions to the Dominican Republic were cancelled due to the zika virus outbreak.
Over 80 faculty and student volunteers from the colleges of nursing, medicine, social work, physical therapy and University of Florida college of pharmacy, came together for the one-day event June 28, where they saw 126 patients, Peralta said. The clinic which was started in 2016, is held four times a year and has served over 500 patients so far. The next one is planned for some time in the fall, Peralta said.
“We’re just now starting to see patients return each time we do this and it’s really nice to be able to address them by name and to see their little ones growing. Especially with the political climate the way that it is, to know that they trust us means a lot,” Peralta said.
Peralta emphasized the importance of this type of clinic for students to start working together as a team from now, since this is something they will be doing after they graduate as they enter the workforce. In this type of setting they’re able to truly understand the community and build rapport with them, something that can’t be done in a hospital setting, she said.
Organizers are hoping that, with UCF’s reorganization and new interdisciplinary college that put all these fields under one umbrella, it will create lots of opportunities to do more work together and hopefully make it easier for students and staff to collaborate on these types of projects.
In 2017 they won a national award for their service in the community. The U.S. Public Health Service and Interprofessional Education Collaborative chose to award UCF, from among many others, their first Public Health Excellence in Interprofessional Education Collaboration Award, for their interdisciplinary work that significantly impacted the community, according to an organization press release.
“It opened our eyes to realize that actually what we’re doing is really special, we’re really helping people who otherwise couldn’t receive healthcare and I think this bolstered us to say let’s go on, let’s make this bigger and better, let’s perfect this. So that’s what we do, each time we try to make it bigger and better than the last,” Peralta said.
Peralta and Simms-Cendan would love to expand the project into other communities, however they’re limited by the funding they receive, as this is an all-volunteer project. Most of their funding comes from grants that they must apply for they also work with the UCF foundation.
“I think this is something that can be replicated at other universities I think it’s something that should be used more often because we have students that want to learn and faculty that want to teach and bringing everyone together like this in a way that serves a community is just absolutely beautiful and it’s exactly what learning should be. It should be experiential and transformative,” Peralta said.
To help out or learn more about the project, email project organizers Peralta or Simms-Cendan at Heather.Peralta@ucf.edu or Judith.Simms-Cendan@ucf.edu.



The UCF Pharmacy at Knights Plaza closed abruptly over the Summer due to an unfavorable tradeoff in cost and benefit.
The UCF Health Center and pharmacy, near Ferrell Commons, will continue serving students across campus.
A replacement for the location has not yet been considered. UCF plans to review all candidates, none of which have been finalized. 
“On July 30, UCF announced its decision to permanently close the student health services facility at Knights Plaza, effective August 4,” a UCF spokesman said.
“The University decided to close this location in order to focus all its on-campus resources into one centralized student health center. The independent leasing agency that oversees Knights Plaza considers all vacancy candidates; we have no information on a potential replacement for that space.”
Historically, Knights Plaza tenants have been food vendors and franchises, however, Amazon and Limbitless Solutions have recently set up shop in the area.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more campus news.
 



The University of Central Florida confirmed Wednesday that Gringos Locos tacos, the famous Orlando Mexican cuisine brand, will open their UCF location once final building inspections have completed.
Gringos Locos anticipated a Summer 2018 opening however the Mexican restaurant has faced licensing and permit hurdles, according to an employee, and planned to have them resolved for an opening around June of this year.
Originally, Gringos Locos planned to open in September 2017 shortly after the semester began.
Students have shown a fervent love for the Central Florida restaurant, which also has locations throughout Downtown Orlando. The restaurant sits across from CFE Arena near the Knights Plaza gym.
–
Original Story:
The University of Central Florida has signed a lease with Gringos Locos, often referred to as “Orlando’s Best Mexican Food,” who will occupy the space in Knights Plaza where Kyoto Sushi & Grill served.
Knight News spoke with UCF News & Information Assistant Director Mark Schleub on the new restaurant.
“We hope Gringos Locos will open in time for the start of the Fall semester,” Schleub said.
“We’ve heard a lot of positive feedback from students about Gringos Locos coming to UCF, so we think this dining option is a good fit for our campus.”
The Mexican restaurant will be working on interior renovations prior to opening, which involves additional permitting and inspection, and may delay its debut.
Knights Plaza Kyoto Sushi & Grill Closes



University of Central Florida President Whittaker swore in the next long-serving police chief – Carl Metzger – Thursday morning in front of a crowd of officers, media, and the Metzger family.
Prior to taking over the position on June 28, after Chief Beary retired from UCF PD, Metzger served 25 years with the Orlando Police department and four years with the University of Central Florida. Metzger ensured that his new role will not be taken lightly – the chief affirmed his conviction to keeping UCF PD as one of the best collegiate police departments in the nation.
Despite several instances of crime on campus through the Summer semester and Metzger’s transition, the police department has made an informed and safe student their goal by updating Knights through email and social media repeatedly through each case.

Stay tuned with Knight News for more campus news.



