The University of Central Florida Legal Services Department, which is known for helping students with speeding tickets and underage drinking charges, plans to add immigration services to its list of legal troubles it can aid students with.
In a three-point memo — signed by Student Body President Josh Bolona and Student Legal Services Director, Patricia Dullaghan— UCF laid out the potential scope for its new service.
The memo states the university’s intention to add immigration services to the program, and to add an “‘immediate relative’ as someone who can be represented be the program if the student is the beneficiary of the immigration petition; adding the students spouse as someone who can be represented by the program in a join bankruptcy petition, page 6 (co-petitioner, or co-defendant).”
Bolona says that the memo is written to allow UCF to cover a wide variety of immigration issues. “It ranges from renewing your DACA to potential deportation, to filing through your parents,” Bolona, who is a DACA (Deferred Action of Childhood Arrival) student himself, said. “There’s just a long laundry list.”
While Bolona said this program may cover deportations on a case-by-case basis, Dullaghan said she had no immediate plans to challenge deportations. “I didn’t necessarily contemplate that,” Dullaghan said. “That’s why when I put immigration services, I didn’t want it to be so restrictive and then have to be always going to the Florida Bar asking can I do this. I wanted to word it broadly.”
Based on this “broad” language, some students are hesitant about what the program will look like in the future.
“I think it being used in a helpful way, there are entities that already help in this way, so I don’t think that’s negative of UCF to try to help people by adding on that service,” College Republican Chairwoman Sarah Gibson said. “But I don’t like how broadly this is written. As someone who is on the pre-law track, when something is broad, that leaves room for problems to arise later. Every situation is different and if there’s not a set way on how to handle those, it can be interpreted however people want it to be.”
While Dullaghan agreed, the new service has some “bugs” in it, Bolona is very excited for the program and believes it will make a big impact on the UCF community. “It’s great news but the complexity of immigration in this country, and the legality of it, confuses me, and I’m part of it,” Bolona said. “The goal is to get this approved and hopefully this continues and students who need these services can go and see if their case fits.”
As of today, UCF Legal Services cannot handle any immigration case, and they will not be able to until the Florida Bar Association makes its decision. Student legal services is funded by students via the Activity and Service Fees that every student pays per credit hour. Currently, Student Legal Services has a budget of $762,415 per year.
While the bar is expected to accept these changes, there is no projected implantation date for the new service.



The University of Central Florida held a ribbon cutting Friday for its unveiling of a new football locker room as well as the Garvy Nutrition Center.
The Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village received the latest of upgrades as athletic director Danny White continues to fundraise for the greatest student-athlete experience in the country.
The Garvy Nutrition Center, formerly the recruiting lounge, will serve as the university’s first training table to improve the health of the student-athletes. A weekly program and partnership with the UCF College of Medicine began before the renovation as the fundraising campaign took off.
“On behalf of our entire athletic department and our student-athletes, we are so grateful for Bob Garvy’s generous gift to support the creation of the Garvy Center for Student-Athlete Nutrition,” White said.
“Bob, Carol, and their family have been amazing supporters of the Knights for a very long time and we greatly appreciate everything they’ve done for the Black and Gold over the years.”

The completely renovated Rosengren Locker Room features a new lighting, color, and design scheme – a dramatic contrast from the original wood-finished lockers and warm lighting. Each player will have their own locker with cubbies for uniforms, pads, personal items, and individual chairs.





Hurricane Florence will likely strike Thursday morning in the Carolinas as a Category 4, leading to the cancellation of weekend football games in the mid-Atlantic, such as UCF and UNC Saturday afternoon.
Athletics Director Danny White will look to fill the schedule should a hurricane interrupt the season. A closer look at who’s open reveals that none other than Nebraska is one who has the same bye week as the Knights at the end of October.
While the Huskers play Troy Saturday in Lincoln at noon – if Hurricane Florence doesn’t ground Troy’s cross-country flight – it would be a long shot for Frost to sacrifice their one week off to play an extra game against UCF while an agreement with Akron sits in limbo. The Huskers were forced to postpone their home opener against Akron due to severe weather; an agreement between the two programs allows for them to face one another on Championship Saturday if neither competes for a championship.
But, stranger things have happened.
If Saturday’s UNC game gets canceled and Danny White wants to fill the schedule, Nebraska and UCF have the same bye week #UCFvsGBR
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 10, 2018

White might be willing to consider Nebraska over an FCS filler, but would the 0-1 Red and head coach put their reputation on the line against a top-20 team on a hot streak? Not to mention the elephant in the room: they hail from the team they brought out of the gutter and onto the national stage.
A loss at the hands of UCF would be perhaps the most devastating blow Frost and the Huskers could withstand. It would transcend seasons unless Nebraska rallied a national championship run shortly after. Especially considering the rest of the coaching staff, whose bio’s tout success at UCF, was moved from Orlando to Lincoln. A win against the Knights would, of course, knock them down, but an unsightly loss finds itself tacked onto both schedules, and neither team goes the distance in 2018.
The decision will not fall on Frost, but with Huskers Athletic Director Bill Moos and his relationship with a well-connected Danny White.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football and Hurricane Florence coverage.
Photo: University of Nebraska
 



