ESPN’s College GameDay will make its way to Orlando, Florida for No. 19 Cincinnati against undefeated No. 11 UCF.
The College GameDay host will post up on the South end of Memory Mall, near Starbucks and the flagpole, overlooking the tailgate.
Both teams are ranked in the top twenty and it could be anyone’s game. Knight News will be there to bring you coverage of the tailgate and game.
College Gameday Makes its way to Orlando




The day the University of Central Florida students and alumni have been waiting for has finally come.
College Gameday is making its way to Orlando this upcoming weekend.
UCF will be taking on Cincinnati in a great conference matchup.”If you look at the slate of games there is one game that really stands out,” says College Gameday analyst Kirk Herbstreit in a video he posted on Twitter.
Knights fans have been waiting a long time for this. After last years success and the continued success this year fans have been nonstop tweeting and badgering the College Gameday crew telling them to make the trip to the beautiful city of Orlando.
UCF fans will now have a chance to come out in full force with hilarious signs to root for Orlando’s hometown team.
This game is a big Conference matchup against a good Cincinnati opponent. This will be UCF’s toughest game of the year so far. The Bearcats are coming into Orlando as a one loss team who will be hungry to break UCF’s 22 game win streak.
UCF will get another shot to show the country who they are as the Knights game versus Cincinnati will be broadcast in prime time at 8pm on ABC.
Be sure to be on campus at 9am Knight nation and see if Lee Corso picks UCF and throws on the Knightro head!



Tuesday’s elections filled the U.S. House of Representatives with a record 100 women.
The University of Central Florida made a record of its own with seven alumni taking a position as Florida State Representatives, among them Amber Mariano, the youngest elected to take a seat in Florida Congress, and one as a senator.
UCF student Amber Mariano runs for State Rep

UCF student Amber Mariano has become the youngest person ever elected to the Florida House of Representatives, according to Mariano. pic.twitter.com/RUIFDmwB9p
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 9, 2016

The list of alumni, curated by UCF:
The Florida election for governor, senator, and agricultural commissioner face a recount as the governor’s race narrowed to less than half a percent, and the Senate and agricultural commissioner race less than one-quarter of one percent.
Knight News made a public records request from the Broward Election Supervisor  Brenda Snipes in South Florida, where voting controversy has drawn national attention.
Knight News awaits public records from Broward Election Supervisor Snipes

Photo: UCF Communications



