UCF’s Puerto Rican Student Association held their first meeting of the semester Thursday, it was attended by over 60 students and members of the media including CNN.
“At the beginning we had like 30 or 40 students with maybe half of them coming to meetings, but after hurricane Maria a lot of students started to come, and we have now about 148 members,” Puerto Rican Student Association president and industrial engineering major, Jennifer Tirado said.
The event was sponsored by the Office of Diversity and inclusion and the Latino Faculty and Staff Association. It is a chance for UCF to support diversity and ensure that Puerto Rican students who transferred to UCF after the hurricane have the support they need as they transition to this new environment.
“This is an example of things that we like to do on campus, with Hispanic Heritage month coming up September 15 through October 15. So, we’re very involved in promoting all of our cultures and of course as a Hispanic Serving Institution, our Latino community,” Cyndia Muñiz, assistant director of Hispanic Serving Initiatives at the Office of Diversity and Inclusion said.
Over 200 Puerto Rican students joined UCF last spring following hurricane Maria, many had their schools shut down because of the storm. One of the students was starting her third year at a university in Puerto Rico when the hurricane struck. She decided to move and join UCF last spring after her campus shut down, to continue her Biomedical Sciences degree.
“After hurricane Maria it was really bad, we got water like a month later and power about three months later,” Nalysha Torres, 20, said.
Guests enjoyed a Puerto Rican dinner and folk dance in a very lively and vibrant atmosphere. About 20 members danced to the tune of a traditional music band.
The event started out with an introduction to the club and their new e-board and included brief statements from members of Latino faculty and the Office of Diversity and Inclusion. Students then got a chance to socialize, new members now know that there is a strong community of Puerto Rican students on campus.
“When I first came there were like four or five that I knew who came from the island but now we have over a hundred. When I came to Orlando I never expected to have so many Puerto Ricans in the same room, so it’s really good,” Tirado said.



The University of Central Florida is set to receive $2 million to help hurricane-displaced students enroll as part of a $95.8 million package to aid Florida schools.
The federal funding supports schools districts that enrolled displaced students from Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands after Hurricane Irma and Maria.
UCF moved quickly to get the students on their feet in the weeks following Hurricane Irma, allowing them to enroll in late September and early October to finish their degree relatively uninterrupted. It took almost a year for the island to get back on the electrical grid.
Orange County Public Schools, who enrolled approximately 4,000 students, will receive over $12 million, the most of any county in Florida, WMFE reports.
“We read reports and we heard from our school districts that while these schools were proud to take in their fellow Americans from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, it was putting a real strain on their resources,” said Democratic Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy.
Murphy said an additional $75 million in federal funding for colleges nationwide will be on its way for displaced students.
Puerto Rican students gather for their first meeting of the semester




University of Central Florida President Dale Whittaker accepted a friendly challenge from Athletics Director Danny White this week to jump into the Reflecting Pond during Spirit Splash.
If 50,000 students attend the first five home games, Whittaker will make the plunge and join thousands of students in what they consider to be one of the greatest traditions throughout the college landscape. White and Whittaker made the challenge on social media.
“If 50,000 students attend our home games before Spirit Splash” President Whittaker will join students in the Reflection Pond at #SpiritSplash 😎 https://t.co/Uqopnv14XO
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) September 7, 2018

Whittaker might want to pack his swimming trunks: the Knights student section topped out at 13,000 for the home opener against South Carolina State, who got the receiving end of a 38-0 score Saturday night.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football.



The University of Central Florida got off to a slow start against the underdog South Carolina State Bulldogs with only 24 points in the first half, lower than the expectation the team had for the opener.
Makenzie Milton was not quite his Heisman self, throwing 3 interceptions and only going 10-23 in the first half for 130 yards. With the negative came positive streaks on offense through the night.
The Knight’s star running back Adrian Killins is picking up right where he left off with two Touchdown runs in the first half, one for 3 yards, and another for 24 yards and a total of 87 yards. Knights kicker Matthew Wright also picked up 3 more points for UCF by drilling a 25-yard field goal. Another rising star running back Otis Anderson added to the scoring in the first half with a 1-yard touchdown run. The Knights defense was a different story in the first half. They held SCS to 0 points with an interception and 3 sacks keeping the score at 24-0 to end the half.
The second half started off hot for UCF: Free safety Richie Grant had an interception that led to a scoring drive, Milton connected with Gabe Davis in the back corner of the end zone for a 13-yard touchdown pass making the score 31-0.
The Knights running backs also stayed hot on their heels. Sophomore Greg McCrae took off for a 32-yard touchdown run putting the Knights up 38-0. UCF’s defense continued to dominate SCS in the second half keeping them at 0 points and adding another interception by Antwan Collier. UCF keeps there 15-game winning streak alive with key guys on offense continuing to produce.
Receiver Gabe Davis had 9 receptions for 111 yards and Ole Miss transfer Tre Nixon had 3 receptions for 53 yards. UCF advances to 2-0 on the year with a big ACC matchup next week in Chapel Hill against North Carolina.



The University of Central Florida repeated its thrashing of South Carolina State 38-0 in their home opener at Spectrum Stadium.
The Knights defense stuffed the Bulldogs at the line of scrimmage play in and play out, making every advantage the SCS defense gained all for naught.
McKenzie Milton had three passes picked off – one-third of his 9 interceptions in 2017.
Stay tuned with Knight News for a full-game summary and more UCF Football.



The largest alumni gift by given to UCF came at the hands of Wince and Joyce Virga on Friday.
The pair have committed to $10.25 million to university athletics and College of Business. A blend of estate and current-use resources make up the historic gift.
“For public institutions like UCF, philanthropy is the margin of success and a reflection of our excellence,” said UCF President Dale Whittaker.
“We are grateful for the Virgas’ generosity and pride in their alma mater because their gift will help grow our academic and athletic excellence, impacting students for many years to come.”
College of Business Dean Paul Jarley praised the charitable commitment: “We were thrilled he was able to spend the day with us, share his experiences with our students and see entrepreneurs in action. Vince and Joyce are great role models not only for our students but for our alums, and we look forward to partnering with them.”
Vince and Joyce attribute their success in the high-end information technology staffing field to UCF, their alma mater. They’ve directed a portion of the $10.25M to the UCF Athletic Director’s Fund as longtime Knights fans.
“UCF has been so gracious in working with us over the years to allow us to support and encourage our passions within the university, specifically entrepreneurship, business and, of course, UCF football,” said Vince.
“The culture of innovation and the national accomplishments of the Professional Selling Program truly inspired us. We are so excited to add fuel to this unique program that is providing amazing opportunities for students while impacting businesses around the world.”
The Virgas are honored to be in a position to commit to such a gift.
“As ardent UCF Knight football fans, nothing is more satisfying than being able to support a program that has come so far but still has so much potential. Our championship ways are just beginning,” says Vince. The Virgas hope that their giving, part of which is a planned gift from their estate, inspires other alumni to realize that “it’s never too early to make supporting UCF part of their family’s legacy,” Vince said.
The gift moves UCF closer to the $500 million goal of the IGNITE Campaign, a multiyear fundraising effort set to wrap up in 2019, according to UCF. Alumni, friends, and partners of the university have already contributed more than $405 million to the campaign.



