University of Central Florida Athletics Director Danny White went in front of the post-game press conference Saturday night to fight for the football program’s student-athletes to be included in the College Football Playoffs.
UCF made a remarkable second-half comeback against the University of Memphis in the AAC Championship game to finish 56-41 at home. All with a backup quarterback, and the weight of 24-straight wins behind the one earned on Saturday.
(White’s message begins at 15:15, 4 minutes left).

“There has been a national conversation going on for the last 11 months since we won the Peach Bowl and claimed a national championship last year. I don’t feel – I’ve been pretty vocal about this – that the four-team playoff is adequate in the postseason of college football. I think last year’s team showed that” White said to media.
“Our football team, our student-athletes have won twenty-five-straight games – they deserve to be in this playoff and I hope that’s the decision that’s made tomorrow. If that does not occur I think that’s another pretty glaring example the four-team playoff is not adequate for the postseason of college football.”
When asked what the impediment to why UCF couldn’t be in the CFP, White said he couldn’t find one.
“In our conference and across the country, there are more teams than four that should have the opportunity to compete and have it settled on the field. If we don’t get in I think we need to ask ourselves a serious question: why are we the only sport in America, college or pro, that it’s not settled on the field or the court.”
The Knights defeated Auburn on the national stage at the Peach Bowl New Year’s Day in Atlanta to cap off an undefeated season. UCF continued that streak into 2018 and dominated No. 19 Cincinnati and finished off rival USF after star quarterback McKenzie Milton suffered a devasting injury.
The No. 8 Knights (CFP) have little chance at jumping to the coveted fourth spot in the playoffs, even though one might argue that the three teams above them do not belong and that UCF was placed at No. 8 to ensure that no amount of chaos would lead to them making it to a semi-final game.
Stay tuned with Knight News and our coverage of Selection Sunday.



The University of Central Florida became American Conference Champions Saturday night against the University of Memphis.
Memphis outright dominated UCF on all sides of the ball as the Knights suffered from four fumbles and numerous failed conversions while Tigers’ running back Darrell Henderson ran for three rushing touchdowns at least 70 yards each.
Memphis put up 24 points in the first quarter and continued the onslaught with 14 more points in the second quarter.
But, it would end there for the visiting team.
UCF would make crucial halftime adjustments and lock down both the rushing game and passing game while making a complete 180 on offense. Mack, Jr., Adrian Killins, and Greg McCrae revived the No. 7 team to overcome a three-score deficit and take the lead in the fourth quarter. The Tigers succeeded on one field goal attempt in the third quarter but failed to second that attempt in the fourth.
The tide turned as the Knights went 35-3 after halftime. Memphis would not come back.
The final score ended at 56-41.
UCF won its second straight AAC Championship, both against Memphis at home to go 25-0 and continue another perfect season. The Knights will likely head to another New Year’s Six Bowl game.
Stay tuned for a full game story.



An outcry of support followed McKenzie Milton’s injury and UCF Football listened to each of the suggestions that Knight Nation offered to honor the quarterback at Saturday’s championship game.
Among the suggestions were leis for fans to bring to the stadium – UCF prepared 40,000 – and for the 808 area code and Ohana to appear on each helmet. The hometown area code of each player typically goes on the front of the helmet, but the mantra of “One Team, One Heartbeat” rings true as every player will represent Hawaii.

The American Athletic Conference Championship will kick off at 3:30 p.m. at Spectrum Stadium. Stay tuned with Knight News for more coverage.
McKenzie Milton Walks for First Time Since Injury, says Teammate Jordan Johnson




