ATLANTA, Ga. – Call ‘em whatever you want, rank ‘em wherever you want. To the UCF Football team, the outside perception doesn’t matter anymore after ripping a 34-27 victory from the No. 7 ranked Auburn Tigers.
In their minds, the Knights are the best team in the country. In their minds, UCF stands atop the football world.
“I said on the podium, you can go ahead and cancel the playoffs; I’m not changing my mind,” emphatically reinforced McKenzie the confetti had settled.
“We knew Auburn was going to be the best team we played all year, and we’ll line up and go against anybody. I said in the springtime, I’ll take our ballclub against anybody in the country, and I still feel that way.”
Even as the nation’s lone undefeated team, UCF had been heralded as the David to Auburn’s Goliath. They were touted as an undersized and overperforming squad of young, exciting talent at would crumble under the weight of Auburn’s heavy-handed physical gifts.
Auburn had knocked off two of the College Football Playoff’s contenders and kept it within a touchdown of a third, making a reasonable case that they could be the nation’s top dog at any given time. They stood atop the blue-blood powerhouses and bellowed dominance with their play, leaving little room for anyone to hype up the underdog.
“Yeah, it’s no better feeling than coming into a game being the underdog, and everybody going around telling you that you can’t win, and people say we going to lose by this much and that much,” gleefully expressed Shaquem Griffin.
“All we could think coming into the game was hit them as hard as we can and keep hitting them each and every second of the game. And that’s what our team did no matter what the circumstances was. When we was down, we made sure we pulled together instead of crushing each other, and we made sure that we made plays when it was time to make plays.”
Griffin was a one-man army, wreaking havoc with malicious giddiness. He officially ended the day with 1.5 sacks, 3.5 tackles for a loss and 12 total tackles. He should have bought a timeshare in the Auburn backfield for all the time he spent there, vacationing where Auburn Quarterback Jarrett Stidham nightmares.
UCF’s defense was lights out, flipping the usual switch and keeping their offense in the game – even as McKenzie ended the first half with all of fourteen passing yards. Five total sacks, a fumble recovery, two interceptions and a touchdown negated the equally stifling Tigers’ defense, who would hold UCF’s offense to 27 points.
The offense took some time to get going, finally finding a rhythm in the second half.
“Yeah, you know, we kind of came out sleepwalking, throwing the ball in the air. I don’t know if it was the big lights or the big Jumbotron,” admitted Milton. “You know, I think we kind of started hitting our stride later in the second quarter and then in the third and fourth quarter we started rolling.”
Auburn had physically smacked UCF around all game. Adrian Killins was picked up and bodyslammed on multiple plays. Otis Anderson was picked up and tossed around like a rag doll, and McKenzie weaved between linemen that could have shot-put him to the other side of the field.
At a certain point it seemed that the War Eagle defense was more interested in doling out punishment than in nullifying the danger of a UCF offensive streak. They wanted to remind the Knights of who they were, mentally take the slight of frame from the competition.
Beat up and ragged, the Knights managed to put the rock in the end zone three times in the second half. Otis Anderson took a twelve yard pass in with the help of an entire offensive line moving the pile, Dredrick Snelson hauled in an eight-yard dagger in the back of the end zone, and Chequan Burkett lit the atmosphere on fire with a late-game pick-six.
For all of the distractions, doubts and disappointments in a topsy-turvy undefeated season that shipped their head coach off to another program, this is well-earned. Perfect through thirteen seemed impossible to almost anybody outside of the program a few short months ago.
“What our kids accomplished and overcame, they overcame playing 12 weeks in a row, or 11 weeks in a row, to finish the season without a break, coming off a hurricane, having schedules change, having a Saturday game, and then coming back and playing away – and then coming back and playing a Friday game on the last game of the year, and then turning around and winning the conference championship, coming here with a coach that took another job and all those distractions, and finding a way to get it done – I didn’t know if these guys would be able to do it,” admitted Coach Frost after the game.
Frost has officially closed the book on his time at UCF, riding off into the sunset with perfection at his back. UCF has finished the mission, answering McKenzie Milton’s call to action before anyone else knew how dangerous this team could be.
“Why not us?”



ATLANTA, Ga. – The Knights capped off their perfect season with a 34-27 win over the Auburn Tigers. The offense has been the focal point of this team all year, but today it was their defense that led to the Knights to victory.
The offense struggled early in this game, McKenzie Milton was 3-17 for 30 yards through the air in the first half. He also lost a fumble that was recovered by the Tigers and taken deep into UCF territory.
“Yeah, you know, we kind of came out sleepwalking, throwing the ball in the air. I don’t know if it was the big lights or the big Jumbotron,” McKenzie Milton said jokingly about his first-half struggles.
Luckily the defense played an unbelievable game, which kept the game close while Milton got used to his surroundings. They made it very difficult on Auburn quarterback Jarrett Stidham. They sacked the Auburn QB 6 times, also adding in another 5 tackles for loss.
“I heard recently that the quarterback wasn’t getting sacked that much this year. I think we had a thousand sacks today, so, I mean, I guess we did something right,” Shaquem Griffin said about the success of his defensive line.
The team also came up with three timely turnovers. They intercepted Jarrett Stidham twice and forced one fumble. Five-year senior Chequan Burkett took an interception to the house with just under six minutes left in the fourth quarter, giving the Knights a 2-touchdown lead. Later in the fourth quarter, Antwan Collier intercepted a ball in the end zone sealing the Knights undefeated season.
“Chequan Burkett getting a pick-six, didn’t know if we were going to have him this year, and he pulled that off,” McKenzie Milton talked about the value Chequan Burkett’s huge moment.
The real hero of this game was Shaquem Griffin. He had a phenomenal game, and deservedly won defensive player of the game. Griffin had 12 tackles, 1.5 sacks, and 3.5 tackles for loss.
“This guy over here was playing like his dreadlocks were on fire today. Every time I looked up, he was running somebody down and making a play and making a sack,” Coach Frost said about Griffin’s fantastic day.
Shaquem Griffin is the face of this team, the national media ate him up this year, and he didn’t disappoint today. He leads this team day in and day out. Today he had The Knights fired up from the start of the game and led them to a victory.
Coach Frost was later was asked about his stars linebackers chances at the next level, this is how he responded.
“Yes, whoever gets him is going to be lucky. Listen, I had some crackpot dynamite reporter from Auburn at the first press conference ask me how in the heck we are going to possibly throw the ball when they keep a lid on their coverage, and who’s the best pass rusher you’ve ever played against and how are you going to stop number. This is the best pass rush that offense has played against. This guy is unbelievable. One hand, two hands, two feet, three feet, I don’t care, I want him on my team and whatever team drafts him is going to be lucky to have him.”
The defensive performance was the main question mark going into today’s game. With the performance they had, there should be no doubt this team could compete with anyone. They dominated the trenches against an elite offensive line, and now have the respect of the whole country.



ATLANTA, Ga. – The No. 12 UCF Knights have taken down No. 7 Auburn 34-27 on New Year’s Day to become Peach Bowl Champions.
The Tigers offense was unable to secure a touchdown in the first half, dropping behind the Knights 6-13 by halftime with 46 yards in penalties in tow.
Auburn opened the second half with a two-play drive for a touchdown. The Knights responded in the second half with three touchdowns of their own – one on a pick-six – to break open another scoring gap.
UCF claims a perfect season with a 13-0 record and a title on a national stage taken from an SEC team who defeated an undefeated Georgia and Alabama team.
And with less than thirty seconds left, the dream season was completed. UCF intercepted Stidham’s pass to the end zone to seal the game.
Stay tuned with @UCFKnightNews for all of your UCF and Peach Bowl coverage.



