The Presidential Search Committee convened for the third time today to discuss financial compensation for the next University of Central Florida president.
During this meeting, the committee was presented with three different compensation packages based on market research by Sibson Consulting.
According to Sibson’s data, UCF should can expect to pay Dr. John C. Hitt’s successor anywhere between $514,000- $905,000 dollars a year in total compensation.
The wide salary range is broken down into three sections, the first is peer group which are schools like UCF, the second is aspirant group who UCF aspires to be, and the third is based on what other state universities’ presidents earn.
These figures are broken down into a base salary bonus/ incentives, retirement/ deferred compensation, and perquisites such as, housing benefits, automobile benefits, health or social club dues, personal services, cellular phone allowances, and executive life insurance.
President Hitt’s current base salary is $505,730 but with bonuses and housing allowance, his actual yearly salary is closer to $1.3 million.
As Knight News previously reported, the Presidential Search Committee unanimously decided to use an outside third-party firm to determine the salary of UCF’s next president at their first meeting. This decision would cost the school approximately $30,000, according to UCF Vice President and General Counsel Scott Cole.
Along with discussing salary compensation, Parker Executive Search President Laurie Wilder updated the committee on her firms search for the next UCF president.
“We have been talking to individuals about this position and they know about UCF, and the past couple weeks of press have not hurt at all,” Wilder said. “But I think they knew about UCF before the football championship. I really think they knew it from the trajectory you’ve been on, both academically from the student’s success also from the research perspective. Your name recognition is outstanding on a national basis.”
The only issue Wilder sees going forward with the presidential search is the Florida sunshine state law requiring a university presidential search is conducted in complete transparency.
“Our biggest concern right now is the open process that is required in the state of Florida, Wilder told the committee. “That is giving some individuals great pause, and as we have talked to sitting presidents it is obviously a massive concern for them.”
While the sunshine state law may be a concern to Wilder, Sean Lavin, a UCF alumnus who spoke at the meeting begged to differ.
“I disagree with Parker Executive Search. If open government laws prevent quality people from applying, then how did UCF attract Dr. Hitt, when those same laws were in place? How did UF attract Ken Fuchs? The benefit of strong open government laws outweighs any inconvenience,” Lavin said.
(Note: Lavin is also an alumni volunteer for Knight News.) 
Knight News will continue to follow the Presidential Search Committee and update students every step of the way. The Next Presidential Search Committee meeting is scheduled for Feb. 5 at 10 a.m. in the Global UCF Building.
 



After going undefeated for a “Peach Perfect” season, some UCF football players have their minds set on one thing: the 2018 NFL draft.
The NFL Draft will take place between Apr. 26 and Apr. 28 at the AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. Heading to the Lone Star State will be TE Jordan Akins, CB Mike Hughes, and WR Tre’Quan Smith.
Mike Hughes, the incredibly talented Cornerback who made headlines this season with his 95-yard return touchdown against the USF Bulls in the War on I-4, took to social media today to announce his choice to enter the draft:

Tre’Quan Smith, a redshirt junior, and Jordan Akins, a senior with one year of eligibility remaining, will also be heading to Arlington. They both signed with NZONE’s sports agent, Fred Lyles, who represents several NFL players, including UCF Alumnus and Jacksonville Jaguar, A.J. Bouye.
Smith and Akins are expected to be chosen around the middle of the third round. Hughes is a top prospect in the draft thanks to his kick return potential and other talents he can bring to special teams.
As for UCF legend and LB Shaquem Griffin, he has accepted an invitation to the Senior Bowl on Jan. 27 and will also be one to watch as the draft grows nearer. This bowl will give him the opportunity to display his confidence in playing at the next level.
This is a developing story. Stay tuned for more updates.



To celebrate syllabus week, Party Tutor will be hosting the official Spring Kickoff Party featuring Dallas K Thursday January 11 at the Knight Library.
During the event, all partiers will be able to enjoy free beer until 11 p.m. and $2 drinks till 12.
Party Tutor Gold Members will get exclusive access to Free Drinks until 12. To get this offer, simply show the Gold deal from your phone at the door when you show your ID.
A limited amount of early bird tickets are now on sale for only $10. Be sure to use promo code “Knightnews” for two dollars off your ticket. Purchase your tickets now, before prices increase.
The Spring Kickoff Party will feature, “over-the-top sound production and added visuals inside Knight Library, LED Light Up Sticks, CO2 blasts, confetti cannons, all combined with the talent of multiple DJs,” according to Party Tutor’s Eventbrite.
Click here to get your tickets
18+ to party, 21+ to drink
Knight News will be at the event selling National Championship shirts. Be sure to pick yours up before they’re gone. 



ORLANDO, Fla.- Now that the magical football season has come to an end, your focus should shift to the basketball teams. This article is meant to catch you up on the men’s team, if you have been sleeping on them (girls update coming tomorrow). UCF men’s basketball program is having quite the season so far.  Coach Dawkins has lead this team to a 12-4 (3-1 in the American Conference) record.
This good start shows the depth that Coach Dawkins has attained. Aubrey Dawkins is out for the year due to a shoulder injury, and B.J. Taylor has been out since mid-way through the first game. Those two were projected to lead the Knights offense this season.
The team has been held up by big contributions from players such as; A.J. Davis, Ceasar DeJesus, Djordjije Mumin, and of course Tacko Fall.
Since BJ Taylor went down, A.J. Davis has been leading this team. Averaging 11.4 points and 8.8 rebounds per game. Davis has given Coach Dawkins an ability to play a variety of styles of basketball. Even playing Davis at the 5 for some minutes in the Absence of Tacko Fall.  His contributions go well beyond his statistics though. A.J. Davis’s temperament has been great for this young team. He does a great job of being intense and composed at the same time, and the younger players follow suite.
Ceasar DeJesus has played well beyond his years through 16 games. The Freshman has averaged nearly 10 points per game. DeJesus has been the offensive presence the Knights have desperately needed in the absence of B.J. Taylor. DeJesus gets to the rim at will, and is a creative finisher. Knight Nation should be very excited about having DeJesus on their campus for the next few years.
My favorite storyline of this young season has been the emergence of Djordjije Mumin. Coach Dawkins inserted Mumin into the starting lineup to help with the poor shooting of this team, and it has worked. Mumin is shooting 44.4% from deep, which is major for this team. The team is only shooting 30% from deep, and Mumin has accounted for 21% of their makes.
Tacko Fall has been a force for UCF. The big man has put on weight since last year, and has owned the paint for UCF. Teams are shooting 37% from the floor against UCF. This has been a big part in UCF’s solid start. This is what the team expected going into the year. Once we get B.J. Taylor back running the offense, with Tacko Fall controlling the defense, UCF should compete for the conference championship.
This team has stayed afloat during a plague of injuries. They are 12-4 with a couple of nice wins. B.J. Taylor should return soon, but will not be available for tonight’s matchup against Connecticut. Now that the celebration of our historic football season has slowed down it is time to go all in on this basketball team.  They deserve your attention. The play tonight in Connecticut at 7:00 on CBS sports Network.



