Shaquem Griffin was announced to the Seattle Seahawks in the 5th round of 2018 NFL Draft early Saturday afternoon.
Jerseys in men’s, women’s, and junior are on sale for 99$ – and free shipping today – at the NFLshop.com.
How long until they announce the jersey as one of the best-selling of 2018?
BREAKING: Shaquem Griffin goes to Seattle Seahawks in the 2018 NFL Draft




University of Central Florida linebacker Shaquem Griffin has gone to the Seattle Seahawks in the 5th Round of the 2018 NFL Draft.
Griffin earned award-after-award-after-commendation all season long under the Knights – both gave each other a stage and a success story.
Shaquem Griffin Surges Ahead of NFL Combine in 40-yard Dash with 4.38

Griffin was a wrecking ball all season for UCF, practically living in the backfield while thriving after both a system and position change.
Shaquem Griffin talks Dream Season and Auburn Challenges this Weekend

From the moment former head coach Scott Frost assigned Griffin as a starter, to his finish in the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl with no one but himself and Auburn quarterback Jarrett Stidham behind the line of scrimmage, Griffin shined.
Knights fans will surely flock to the NFL shop to grab Griffin’s new jersey once online.
Shaquem Griffin One-on-One: Life After Football, Book Plans and Living Away from His Brother




Knight News has uncovered additional evidence UCF relied on when deciding to suspend Alpha Tau Omega in connection with a party where a woman said she was raped by two students.
A newly released incident report reveals a concerned mother, whose daughter reportedly provided aid to the woman who was sexually assaulted, called UCF’s Greek Life office to report the fraternity was tied to the party on April 20, according to the report.
The report, filed on April 23 by Greek Life staff, cited the phone call from the woman who described the house where the party was held as “unofficial off-campus house” of the ATO fraternity. She also reported members of ATO were hosting the event, according to the incident report.
UCF rules allow it to punish a student organization that “implicitly allows active members of the student organization to be in a position to act on behalf or with authority of the organization.”
According to a statement release by ATO nationals, however, the party was not an ATO event, and was in no way connected to the fraternity.
The incident report, along with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office arrest affidavit for Jack Ryan Smith, prompted the organizational conduct action, according to UCF Police public information officer Courtney Gilmartin.
ATO was placed on interim organizational suspension on Tuesday, citing one charge of disruptive conduct and five charges of alcohol related misconduct, according to the suspension notice. A hearing to review the whether ATO will remain on interim suspension will be held May 7.
A woman alleged that David Anthony Kirk and Smith gang-raped her while she was “blackout drunk” at the party, according to Smith’s arrest affidavit. Smith was arrested on April 21, a day after the graduation party mentioned in the incident report. Kirk was arrested the day after the incident report was filed, on Tuesday, April 25.
Both Kirk and Smith have bonded out of the Orange County Jail.
 



