The fourth-ever UCF alumnus to be picked in the first round of the NFL Draft, Knights cornerback Mike Hughes went to the Minnesota Vikings Thursday night as the 30th 2018 draft pick.
Hughes had one of the highest stocks on the 2017 squad and plenty of highlight reels to go with it – not to mention Hughes’ field-length return for a touchdown against the USF Bulls in the final moments, securing a win in the “best game in college football” in 2017.
Hughes is the highest drafted defensive player in university history and follows Daunte Culpepper (1999, 11th overall), Blake Bortles (2014, 3rd overall) and Breshad Perriman (2015, 26th overall), according to UCF.
Welcome to the #Vikings, @_Bigmikee1! pic.twitter.com/XqAfNe4Br8
— Minnesota Vikings (@Vikings) April 27, 2018

“With the 30th pick in the 2018 #NFLDraft…”#SKOL @_Bigmikee1!!#BuiltByUCF pic.twitter.com/o4OVn09kQM
— UCF Football (@UCF_Football) April 27, 2018

.@Vikings fans PUMPED to have @_Bigmikee1 AND @LataviusM ⚔️⚔️#SKOL #BuiltByUCF pic.twitter.com/2sSHNW4cRg
— UCF Football (@UCF_Football) April 27, 2018

Photo: Minnesota Vikings.



The University of Central Florida’s Zeta Psi Chapter of Beta Theta Pi, has been disbanded after the fraternity pled “in violation” of multiple university policy.
UCF’s student conduct recommended the fraternity be suspended through Fall 2019 after the organization’s in violation plea. However, the fraternity’s national chapter decided that it would be best for the Zeta Psi chapter of Beta Theta Pi to be permanently disbanded from the college. 
S. Wayne Kay, the General Secretary for Beta Theta Pi’s national organization, stated in an email that the “decision to disband comes after a thorough investigation…[that] validated a number of concerns with Zeta Psi’s new member education program.”
According to Kay, Beta Theta Pi nationals has “traveled this road with Zeta Psi before.”
 The chapter underwent major reorganization for similar transgressions less than 10 years ago.
As Knight News previously reported, the chapter was placed on interim suspension after  allegations that a pledge was forced to drink a bottle of Smirnoff Ice.
The allegations were put forth by the pledge’s family, of whom multiple members wrote emails complaining of unfair treatment.
In an email sent from the pledges family to UCF student conduct, the family states, “(he) had to drink a Smirnoff Ice. Being concerned, I did not understand why one drink made him sick until he sent a picture of the huge bottle he was pressured and forced to chug.”
Another email accused fraternity activities of causing the pledge to miss class.
Beta Theta Pi was pled “in violation” to the following charges: “Alcohol RelatedMisconduct – Furnishing to Underage (6C), Alcohol Related Misconduct – Failure to Properly Regulate Alcohol (6F), Hazing -Mental or Physical Stress (10C) and Hazing – Forcing a Violation (10D) of the“Organizational Rules of Conduct” in the 2017-2018 edition of The Golden Rule,” according to the official Student Conduct outcome letter.
This is a developing story. Stay tuned to Knight News for further updates.



The University of Central Florida announced earlier this week the six commencement speakers that will give speeches to more than 8,000 graduating students, according to a UCF press release.
The commencement ceremonies will take place May 3 through 5 at the CFE Federal Credit Union Arena.
Tom Kuntz, the former president and CEO of Suntrust Bank Florida, will be speaking at the commencement ceremony for the College of Arts and Humanities, College of Engineering and College of Optics and Photonics. He will speak on May 3 at the 9 a.m. ceremony.
Jeb Bush was Florida governor from 1999 to 2007, and was the first two-term republican Florida governor. He will be giving the commencement speeches for the college of Undergraduate Studies, College of Medicine, College of Graduate Studies and Rosen College of Hospitality Management on May 3 at 2:30 p.m.
Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer will be speaking at the commencement ceremony for the College of Sciences on May 4 at 9 a.m.
Carolyn Roberts, the founder and president of Roberts Realty in Ocala will speak at the commencement ceremony for the College of Education and Human Performance and the College of Nursing on May 4 at 2:30 p.m.
Jim Heekin, an attorney at Lowndes, Drosdick, Doster, Kanter and Reed, will be speaking at the commencement ceremony for the College of business Administration on May 5 at 9 a.m.
Teresa Jacobs, the Orange County Mayor, will be speaking at the commencement ceremony for the College of Health and Public Affairs on May 5 at 2:30 p.m.
An estimated 8,118 students will be graduating, including 6,788 bachelor’s, 1,183 master’s and 147 doctoral degrees, according to the press release.
Doors open 90 minutes prior to each ceremony, though students and families should anticipate long lines due to security measures. Ceremonies will last for approximately two hours each, according to UCF’s schedule of ceremonies.
 
Correction: Previous edition of this story stated that Jeb Bush was first two-time governor of Florida. Correction issued to reflect that Bush was the first republican two-time governor of Florida. 



