Nearly 30 people, all dressed in black, paraded silently down memory mall. They got looks – some people whispered and took pictures of the soundless procession. 
One female student held her raised fist up and nodded in solidarity with those who walked. On the backs of the students, were white stickers proclaiming, “Never Forget,” a phrase that became unanimous with holocaust memorial by Elie Wiesel, a holocaust survivor. 
These students were marching In observance of Yom Ha’Shoah, or Holocaust Remembrance Day. The Nu Delta chapter of Alpha Epsilon Pi organized ‘We Walk To Remember’ on Thursday at the University of Central Florida. AEPi chapters across the nation partnered with B’nai B’rith International, a Jewish service organization, to stage similar marches throughout college campuses.
Attendees held signs emblazoned with the Star of David, as well as slogans such as “We Remember” and another quote from Wiesel, “To forget the dead would be akin to killing them a second time.” Others wore Israeli flags draped over their shoulders, and a gay pride flag with a Star of David was held at the front of the procession.
Those participating were given small flyers to hand out, explaining the reasoning behind their silent walk. It highlighted the atrocities of the holocaust, not only to Jews but also to the millions of others who perished.
Participants walked silently from the John C. Hitt Library to the CFE Federal Credit Union Arena, where a small service was held. During the service, speakers encouraged attendees to never forget those who were lost, and 11 candles were lit in remembrance of the lives lost during the holocaust.
Speakers included Rabbi Ethan Paris, Dr. Kenneth Hanson, the program director for Judaic studies at UCF and Andrew Weil, the executive director and CEO of Hillel Central Florida. Paris led the crowd in a recitation of Kaddish, a Jewish prayer typically recited for the dead.
“This is something we really can’t forget,” Said Harrison Faerman, the Jewish Identity Leader of AEPi. “Don’t just remember that we did [this] today, we’re going to do it again, and again, and again, because if we don’t do this… then we forget. And when history is lost, it tends to repeat itself.”



Three students were awarded scholarships in the Queer Excellence Talent Show held by the Multicultural Student Center Wednesday night. 
The talent show took place in the Live Oak Event Center and included interactive entertainment such as an MC and a live DJ from Knights of the Turntables.
The event was put on by MSC Pride Director Fausto Cardenas. “The purpose of having the Queer Excellence Talent Show was to showcase LGBTQ+ identities,” Cardenas said. “I really wanted to highlight that we have talents as well.” 
The talents showcased included singing, guitar playing, poem and monologue recitals and a drag show. After every performance, audience members were able to cast their vote on who they thought should win first, second and third place. The three winners won a scholarship of $200, $150 and $100 respectfully. The scholarship money goes towards their tuition at the University of Central Florida.
The first place award was given to Jamonté Bruten, a Musical Theatre major who sang ‘A Song For You’ by Donny Hathaway. The second place winner was Johanna Gonzalez who sang ‘I Know Where I’ve Been’ from the musical Hairspray and Dwight Stewart II took home third place for singing an original song titled ‘Please, Please, Please.’
“This was a good way to showcase the talents of LGBTQ+ individuals without them being judged based off of their sexual orientation” said Jonathan McNelis, a Junior majoring in Public Administration. This was his very first MSC event as he was there to support his friend who performed a monologue. “I was just excited to see everyone come out and perform.” 
“I think it’s really cool that these LGBTQ+ events are available because we didn’t have them at my high school,” said Vilma Portocarrero, a Freshman majoring in Creative Writing. “So, I try to come out and support as much as I can.” 



