A 19-year-old University of Central Florida student was arrested and charged with sexual battery against a physically helpless person, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
Cameron Carew was arrested on Oct. 8 after police determined there was probable cause that he had committed sexual battery, according to the arrest affidavit.
The alleged assault took place at Carew and his roommate’s apartment complex on July 16. The victim, Carew and Carew’s roommate began the night drinking while watching YouTube videos. Later, Carew’s roommate rolled a marijuana joint which all three of them smoked, according to police.
While smoking marijuana, the victim told authorities she began to feel “crossfaded.” The next thing the victim remembered was being draped over the balcony with her clothes on but Carew’s roommate was gone. The victim told police Carew then grabbed her and began molesting her by grabbing her breast and trying to kiss her mouth and neck.
Carew eventually helped the victim back into the apartment where she “chugged” another glass of wine before he brought her to his bedroom. The victim told police she only remembered lying on his bed.
Later on, the victim says she woke up to Carew’s roommate knocking on the bedroom door. While she does not remember Carew and his roommate’s conversation, she does recall the roommate saying, “oh shit.” At the time, the victim said she was unable to open her eyes due to her level of intoxication, according to police.
The victim then told police she woke up a second time to Carew penetrating her with his fingers. The victim told police she does not recall if he said anything to her.
The victim then woke up a third time to Carew lying on top of her while penetrating her, according to the report. The victim told police Carew had his hand around her neck while still penetrating her and said, “I’ve wanted to do this ever since I laid eyes on you.”
According to authorities, the victim then woke up a fourth time as Carew’s penis was in her mouth. The victim told police she remembers Carew telling her “not to use her teeth.”
Police met with the victim on October 4 and conducted a control call to Carew. Carew was arrested four days later.
Knight News reached out to UCF student Conduct Director, Michael Gilmer, regarding Carew’s status at the university but did not receive an immediate response.



