As managing editor of Knight News, I take news – especially student-centered news – very seriously.
I firmly believe that students have the right to know what’s going on at their university, and at the University of Central Florida, which is home to 66,000 students, there’s never a dull moment. 
I started my journey into journalism the first semester I came to this amazing place we call UCF. I found my home at Knight News, which provides students with a unique investigative journalistic experience. And I’ll forever be grateful for the lessons I’ve learned while working for this amazing publication. All the experience that the entire staff of Knight News has gained is thanks to a community that supports us and our work.
It hasn’t always been smooth sailing. Knight News has had its turbulence at UCF, suing the school multiple times to acquire documents and access to closed-door meetings – all in the name of transparency. We’ve fought so that students can know the truth, and have full knowledge of where their hard-earned tuition money is going. It hasn’t always been easy, but some other student newsrooms have it much, much worse.
Recently, Knight News has joined with student newsrooms all over the country under the campaign #SaveStudentNewsrooms. We’ve heard the cries for help from student publications who have had to reduce their staff due to lack of funding, who are being blacklisted by their universities and who must close their doors all together.
Journalism has the unique responsibility of shedding light on issues that the public would otherwise never know about. At Knight News, we’re dedicated to bring the student body, alumni and staff important and relevant news that affects them. And in addition to serving the UCF community, we’ve taught and housed some of the most prolific student journalists on this great campus, who have gone on to do amazing things in journalism after graduation. We’re a news source, but we’re also a training ground for the next generation of reporters, photojournalists, videographers and editors. Student publications are an invaluable resource.
There are lots of ways people can support student newsrooms. Donations are always appreciated, and obviously monetary support is never a bad thing. But, not everyone can give money, and at a university setting, that’s completely understandable. Just giving support by reading and sharing news from student publications does wonders. Where there are readers, there are writers. 
 
Thank you for listening, and supporting Knight News in whatever way you can. We will always be committed to bring you the important news the UCF community expects from us. If you’d like more information about #SaveStudentNewsrooms, visit their website here.



Two UCF students have been arrested over allegations of gang raping a woman at an off-campus party, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
David Anthony Kirk, 20, and Jack Ryan Smith, 26, were arrested and face charges of sexual battery, a first degree felony, according to Orange County Court records.
An unnamed woman and her friends attend a “Meat Factory” party at a house near UCF on April 20. She drank before and during the party, and began talking to two unknown males by a fire pit, who would later be identified as Kirk and Smith, Smith’s arrest affidavit said.
The woman said she was was blackout drunk at this time, slurring her words and stumbling when she walked, and her memories became blurred, only remembering “snapshots” of what was happening. The next thing she remembered, she was naked on a bed while while Smith was raping her, she told deputies, the report said. She said Kirk was forcing her to perform oral sex on him, and she couldn’t speak or move due to her intoxication level, according to the report.
According to the report, she said she heard one of the men say, “My turn, my turn,” and the two men switched positions while she cried. She did not know how long this occured for, the report said.
The next memory the woman had was waking up on the floor of a bathroom with her shorts and crop top back on, crying. She then texted her friends, “begging for help because she had just been gang raped,” the report said.
The next morning, she decided to report the battery and went to Florida Hospital East Orlando.
Deputies said the house where the party occured was “often the venue for parties hosted by the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity,” according to the report. Kirk was formally expelled from ATO in january, though it is unclear whether Smith is a member, according to an article written by the Orlando Sentinel.
Though ATO nationals did not respond to Knight News’ request for comment, the Sentinel reports that they released a statement Tuesday supporting the woman alleging the sexual assault and that the party the victim attended was in no way connected to ATO and that only 10 of the 250 attendees were ATO members. “This was not an ATO event,” the statement read.
UCF’s Eta Rho chapter of ATO was placed on organizational suspension Tuesday for disruptive and alcohol related misconduct, preventing the chapter from participating in fundraisers, socials, mixers, intramural competitions, recruitment, receptions, service projects and conferences, according to the suspension notice.
Smith has bonded out of jail after being arrested Saturday. Kirk was arrested Tuesday, and was scheduled to have his first appearance this morning, according to court records.
 



