ORLANDO, Fla.- When college football switched to their playoff format everyone was ecstatic. It was supposed to give more teams a chance at a National Championship, which would give teams like UCF more opportunities. This year proved that to be untrue.
UCF was the only undefeated team in the Nation, and yet,they were left out of the College Football Playoff. In hindsight, people can see they were robbed of a once in a lifetime opportunity.
In the early 2000’s a new method of ranking became popular in college football, known as the Colley Rankings. The Colley Rankings were based on a statistical formula with two main contributing factors. Firstly, they considered wins, which seems obvious, but that didn’t prove to be the most important factor this year.  The second critical factor of the Colley Rankings was strength of schedule.  This is necessary in college football due to the large number of teams and the small amount of games.  Strength of schedule is what the naysayers are shouting at UCF fans this week.
“The scheme adjusts effectively for strength of schedule, in a way that is free of bias toward conference, tradition, or region,” ColleyRankings.com explained the difference between their rankings and human rankings.
This year’s final rankings were put out today, and finally, UCF received the respect they have been searching for.  The Colley Rankings ranked UCF first.  This is just more fuel for the fire.  Orlando will forever remember the 2017 UCF Knights as National Champions.



The University of Central Florida finished at No. 6 in the final AP Top-25 poll with 4 first-place votes – the only to not go to No. 1 Alabama’s 57 votes.
The Knights finished the 2017 season as the nation’s only undefeated team while proclaiming themselves as national champions. UCF held down Auburn’s offense from start to finish in the 50th Chick-fil-a Peach Bowl while McKenzie Milton and crew outpaced Stidham and the Tigers to claim victory.
Florida Governor Rick Scott proclaimed UCF as national champions in Florida given that Auburn defeated both Alabama and Georgia in the regular season.
After Monday night’s CFP Championship game, Alabama finished at No. 1 with 57 out of 61 AP votes upon victory against Georgia 26-23 in overtime.
Stay tuned with @UCFKnightNews for all on UCF Football.



