Washington State’s Kainoa Wilson of Nanakuli, Hawaii had #10 written on his arm for Saturday’s rivalry game against Washington.
The news of UCF’s star quarterback spread quickly throughout the college football world and it appeared that Wilson, who played with Milton in Hawaii at Mililani High School, wrote “10” on his left arm for all to see his support of a friend. Kainoa plays in his junior year as a wide receiver for the Cougars.
The No. 8 Cougars lost to the No. 16 Washington Huskies 28-15, yet for Wilson, it may have been more than just a game.
Read more about tonight’s events:
McKenzie Milton confirmed to undergo surgery, Tampa media reports




The University of Central Florida earned a win in 2018’s last regular season game over the USF Bulls 38-10 and its second straight perfect season.
The news of the day came in the second quarter when UCF quarterback McKenzie Milton went down with a gruesome leg injury. Milton was scrambling on a QB keep and went head over heels. Immediately it was evident that the star QB was in pain. No further details are available about Milton’s injury.
The Knights continued that drive when Milton went down and eventually sealed it with three points. Before going down Milton had an impressive pass in the first quarter that was good for a touchdown.
Knights seemed to rely heavily on the run game after Milton went down. The Knights had 5 pass attempts in the third quarter completing only 2 compared to 10 in the first quarter with Milton completing 50%.
Backup QB Darriel Mack Jr. was able to hold down the offense and keep the lead for the remainder of the game, the question is can he do it for the championship and bowl games. Knights have two other QB’s on the roster behind Mack including Hayden Kingston and Quadry Jones.
UCF’s defense seemed to pick up where it left off last week against Cincinnati. They had a strong outing allowing only one USF touchdown all game.
What future loomed over fans and players took hold and the Knights offense struggled to play with the same energy as in previous matchups. USF found the key to scoring momentarily as they ran the ball up the middle again, and again, and again past the defense to earn their first touchdown of the game.
In the fourth quarter, however, the Knights offense paved way for two touchdowns to break away and win the game.
The was the second largest attendance in the history of the War on I-4 with 57,626 fans in attendance.
Stay tuned for the full game summary.
The Future of UCF Football is with QB Darriel Mack, Jr.




The University of Central Florida will face its greatest obstacle yet.
Quarterback McKenzie Milton ran for a QB keep in the second quarter of the USF game and was met by a Bulls lineman who ducked for a tackle and mistakenly devastated Milton’s leg. USF trainers immediately began care on the college junior while UCF’s ran to Milton.
Reaction to Milton’s very serious leg injury from @KirkHerbstreit: https://t.co/l8KtQTioNe
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 23, 2018

Darriel Mack, the second string quarterback, ran over onto the field with the rest of the UCF football team and kneeled while Milton was braced. Mack hugged Milton as he prepared to be carted off and the Heisman Hopeful pointed to the sky as Raymond James Stadium chanted “UCF.”
We got you, 🔟 #ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/QRyfZWRFGZ
— UCF Football (@UCF_Football) November 23, 2018

Mack, Jr. led the Knights in their 37-10 victory over ECU on the road after Milton sat out due to light discomfort in the leg following a rough tackle at the Memphis game. Mack received playing time at the end of other games and is equipped to bring the Knights another back-to-back regular-season sweep.
The sophomore began his collegiate football career with the Knights in 2017, coming from Norfolk, Virginia as a three-star quarterback.
Mack, Jr. made a statement at the beginning of the season with a 70-yard touchdown run after taking over for Milton in the fourth quarter of the UConn game while a 49-10 score was held.
The run was the second-longest in school history by a quarterback behind only a 75-yard TD run from Daunte Culpepper.
Raymond James Stadium is chanting “UCF” as Milton gives a thumbs up #UCFvsUSF
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 23, 2018

The Knights led the Bulls by two scores at the time of injury and the UCF defense continued to keep USF from reaching the end zone once gameplay resumed.
Milton pointed to the crowd before being carted off in a sign of well-being. Right leg braced but moving. Milton is confirmed not to be returning to today’s game, per ESPN and we’ll wait to hear more #UCFvsUSF pic.twitter.com/fVsZdLtoRk
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) November 23, 2018

Milton’s condition will be announced at a later time. Stay tuned for updates.
UCF will host Memphis once again in the AAC Championship on December 1 at 3:30 p.m.



The University of Memphis will play UCF once again this season and for the second year in a row at the American Athletic Conference Championship game in Orlando.
Memphis defeated Houston 52-31 at home for the AAC West Division title. 
The No. 9 Knights dominated Cincinnati at Spectrum Stadium 38-13 to claim the East Division title and secure a spot at the championship game.
In the 2017 matchup, UCF went on to become conference champions in double-overtime 62-55 after Tre Neal intercepted a pass from Riley Furguson to seal the game.



