The University of Central Florida was firing on all cylinders Thursday night against the UConn Huskies in the season opener.
The Otis Anderson, McKenzie Milton, and Gave Davis trio drove the Knights downfield at a pace of two touchdowns a quarter.
UConn quarterback David Pindell made Defensive Coordinator Randy Shannon work to hold the Huskies to two touchdowns. Pindell had hot streak rushing plays that moved the drive, however, inconsistency prevented those plays from turning into points on the board.
The Knights held their first few scoring drives to under one minute thirty seconds, exactly what UCF Athletics envisioned for their 2018 season under new head coach Josh Heupel.
Second string quarterback Darriel Mack scored his first career touchdown as a QB in the fourth quarter as relief for Milton. Mack made an explosive 70-yard touchdown run to make it an 8-touchdown game.
UCF plays at Spectrum Stadium Saturday, September 8 at 6 p.m. EST.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football.
Photo courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



The UCF Downtown Project, set to open August 26, 2019, will feature a private 580-space parking garage for students and employees.
The $13.5 million four-story garage will feature license plate recognition technology, security cameras, real-time space counts by floor, and electric charging stations. 
The ground floor of the garage will house a university store, campus services, and storage space for campus supplies, UCF said.
UCF Downtown and the Creative Village will be anchored by the Dr. Phillips Academic Commons and the rest of the 68-acre property, to be filled with a mix of higher-education institutions, high-tech companies, startups, and housing for the people who will work, study, and play there.

“Today, we can plant a seed in downtown Orlando that will benefit our students, community, and state for decades to come,” former President John C. Hitt said on the project.
What UCF Downtown Will Look Like One Year from Now

Stay tuned with Knight News for more on UCF Downtown.



A whale of a 2017 season will be the bar for UCF Football if you’ve been following along in the 8 months since the New Year’s Chick-fil-a Peach Bowl.
Seventeen starters return – eight on offense, six on defense, and three on special teams – with McKenzie Milton as the first-string quarterback and Heisman candidate hopeful. The Knights’ player infrastructure built up a strong bid to win the American Athletic Conference Championship, according to the AAC preseason poll, with Memphis and USF as the heavy contenders again.
Heupel brings a high-powered offensive mindset from Mizzou. With that toolbox of offensive and defensive weapons at his disposal, the Knights should make quick work of the Huskies, who were picked as 5th in the East Division preseason poll in Newport, Rhode Island, and finished 3-9 last time around.
While wide receivers Tre’Quan Smith, Jordan Akins, and others left for the NFL, Dredrick Snelson, Gabriel Davis, Tre Nixon, and Marlon Williams will take their place. Adrian Killins and Otis Anderson will drive the nail down with the experience gained over 13 games in 2017. Both Anderson and Killins delivered game-winning plays that pushed UCF to their highest level.
The Josh Heupel era of Knights football opens undefeated at No. 21 in Hartford, Connecticut as self-proclaimed attacking champions. Tune in at 7 p.m. EST on ESPNU.



The long-awaited UCF Downtown Campus will open Fall 2019 in the heart of Downtown Orlando.
Approximately 7,700 UCF and Valencia students across 20 academic programs – associates to doctorates – will attend class on the state-of-the-art collaborative campus between the two colleges.

“UCF is bringing more than 20 academic programs to downtown, including communication, digital media, legal studies, healthcare technology and healthcare management,” the university said.
“In addition to general studies courses, Valencia College will offer programs in digital media, health information technology, and culinary and hospitality, including workforce training and other certificates to increase access to education in the immediate area.”

The 4-story, 148,000-square-foot Dr. Phillips Academic Commons will anchor the Creative Village, UCF says, while touting a $1 billion public-private partnership to redevelop 68 acres West of I-4 into a mix of higher-education institutions, high-tech companies, startups, and housing for the people who will work, study, and play there.
The UCF Center for Emerging Media, central energy plant, UCF Police Department, a 600-space parking garage, and university store will join the academic building to create a 21st-century learning experience.

“Ustler Development and DEVEN are constructing UnionWest at Creative Village, a 15-story tower that will also include Valencia’s School of Culinary Arts and Hospitality, 600 beds of student housing, a parking garage, health & recreation center, and shared space for student support services, such as advising and financial aid,” said UCF.

UnionWest will be the only dedicated student housing in Downtown Orlando at the time of opening and will overlook the City of Orlando and Creative Village Central Park.
 



