By: Ryan Woerner
Tuesday night was an exciting night for the College Democrats who were eager for a progressive candidate for governor.
Going into the primaries, Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum was the favorite among UCF Democrats. However, he was not the most likely to win. Most of the polls had Congresswoman Gwen Graham winning by several points.
The polls were wrong.
Once it was clear that Gillum would win, by a slim margin, the Democratic Knights were ecstatic.
“Andrew Gillum is the clear choice for the Democrats,” President of College Democrats, Brendan Derrig said. “He is very progressive with his policies and what he as planned for Florida, he is the clear choice that Florida needs.”
Gillum was defeated Graham by a slim 2.9 percentage points, or 44,477 votes.
Many members said they were glad that Gillum won compared to the other candidates.
“Gillum is a breath of fresh air that Florida needs, he cares about families and the average Floridian,” members of the College of Democrats said.
Gillum’s victory sets up an election that will have national implications. As previously reported, Senator Bernie Sanders endorsed Gillum weeks ago during a rally at the CFE Arena.
Sanders’ endorsement of Gillum and President Donald Trump’s endorsement of Ron DeSantis has brought national attention to Florida’s governor race.
According to the latest Real Clear Politics poll, DeSantis has a slight edge over Gillum in a head-head-race. This poll was taken in late July.
Some of the other notable people coming out of the primaries are Bill Nelson in the U.S. Senate, Sean Shaw in as Attorney General, and District 7 winner, Stephanie Murphy.



University of Central Florida College Republicans are thrilled by the results of Tuesday night’s primary election.
“I think all the candidates ran on respectable platforms,” College Republican Chairwoman Sarah Gibson said. “And as always, the people decided who they were most proud to send forward into the general [election].”
Congressman Ron DeSantis defeated Florida’s Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam by nearly 20 percentage points, according to Real Clear Politics. DeSantis’ victory comes after President Trump gave him his full endorsement earlier in the campaign.
“The majority of republicans stand firm behind Trump,” College Republican Secretary Luke Strominger said.
While DeSantis and many other candidates down the ballot may not have been some conservative students first choice, most are eager and ready to back their party’s candidates.
“I’m with the party,” Aaron Bettinger said. “I would have liked to see my candidates win, but I think the Republicans of Florida have spoken and now it’s time to unite.”
DeSantis will be facing off against the Democratic nominee Mayor Andrew Gillum for the Governorship this November in what will be a race with national implications.
As Knight News previously reported, Gillum is endorsed by Senator Bernie Sanders. Based on the candidate’s endorsements, this race has turned into a proxy battle between the Sanders and the President.
“I think we have a tough general election ahead of us,” Gibson said. “In nearly every midterm the party in control losses seats.”
The latest poll placing Gillum Vs. DeSantis shows the conservative congressman with a three-percentage point lead over the progressive mayor. It is important to note though that this poll was taken back in late July, prior to the primary elections.
The College Republicans at UCF are committed to keeping Florida red and plan to continue their tabling efforts, knocking on doors, phone banking and campaigning around the state, according to club leadership.
“I think Florida is a conservative state as a whole,” Bettinger said. “And groups like the college republicans will be working hard to keep it red.”
Here are the winners down the Republican Ballot:
Governor: Ron DeSantis
Senator: Rick Scott
Attorney General: Ashley Moody
Agriculture Commissioner: Matt Caldwell
Congressman U.S. House District 7: Mike Miller



