UCF Basketball’s Tacko Fall announced Wednesday that he will not declare for the NBA Draft this Summer.
Fall intends to return for a final season as UCF’s star center with a wish to leave a legacy.
“It left a feeling of unfinished business,” Fall said to UCF of the injury-plagued 2017-18 campaign. “This is not the way I want to leave this school. I came here to do something big. I feel like before I leave here, I gotta leave my mark. That’s what really weighed into my decision to stay.”
Fall announced last year almost to the day that he was entering the draft to scope opportunities. The center worked out with five teams although withdrew to return for his junior year.
UCF suffered from numerous injuries to key players such as Aubrey Dawkins, B.J. Taylor, and Fall himself.
“We had everything we needed. We had all the pieces. Unfortunately, we got hit by injuries,” Fall said. “Things happened that I couldn’t control. Having all those injuries really changed everything.
“They say you learn a lot from those kinds of things and I did,” he went on to say about how this past season ended. “I thought about a lot of things, and it was depressing at first, but I had the right group of people around me, helping me through it. Orlando’s like my second home. The way this year ended. The way our season ended. The way that my season ended. I just didn’t want to leave the school like that.”
Stay tuned with Knight News for more.



Former University of Alabama football offensive coordinator – and current Florida Atlantic University head coach – was asked if the Knights would have kept the game close to the Crimson Tide.
UCF has been at the center of controversy in the college football world after going undefeated in the regular season and conference play, with a finish on New Year’s Day against Auburn.
Alabama managed to reach the College Football Playoff even though they didn’t win their conference, inciting controversy from fans outside of the American Athletic Conference (which UCF belongs to). ‘Bama would sweep its opponents and defeat Georgia in a way only Nick Saban could to win the CFP National Championship.
“Who knows? Why couldn’t they beat Alabama?” Kiffin told SEC Country of UCF. “They could beat Auburn. Why couldn’t they beat Alabama? We don’t know that.”
Pundits would knock down the Knights’ performance game-after-game, including the age-old, aimless lose prediction against a P5 team or post-win-scenario, where an excuse or two usually comes up, regardless of the G5 team.
Kiffin paralleled Loyola-Chicago’s streak to the NCAA Basketball Final Four and an alternate universe where the Knights were given a chance at the CFP.
“[Some say,] ‘UCF couldn’t have won two playoff games.’ OK. Did you think Loyola-Chicago could win four?” Kiffin said. “They were a No. 11 seed. So what did that make them, the 44th team in the country? UCF was a lot higher ranked than that during the regular season. So that would have been neat to see. It would be neat if [the playoff] at least went to eight [teams]. Then you would have one Group of 5 team in there. UCF could have gone in there.”
While we may never know, 2018 holds promise for another run in the green. Should the Knights manage to go undefeated again, one would think the CFP has no choice but to let them in.



Universal Studios’ Halloween Horror Nights will feature the hit Netflix show “Stranger Things” as a house in the park.
The haunted house maze-goers will encounter a Demogorgon, parallel universe (Upside Down), and much more.
“You’ll faithfully follow the storyline, starting off on Mirkwood and then quickly moving to inside Hawkins National Laboratory where things have gone terribly, terribly wrong,” said show director Patrick Braillard.
Halloween Horror Nights runs from September 14 to November 3 with nine ‘houses’ made in warehouses around the park. 
Tickets are available now under select deals, including an option that has a second night free. Watch the teaser below:




Mathematics student Hannah Sage will represent the University of Central Florida on the Jeopardy College Tournament hosted by Alex Trebek.
Sage is also a LEAD Scholar, an academic and leadership-based organization that begins with incoming freshman moving into the program.
The episode will air on April 9.
Stay tuned as we find out more about her episode.




