The University of Memphis saw their 12-game home winning streak snapped at the Liberty Bowl, while head coach Mike Norvell saw another haunting loss for the Tigers at the hands of UCF. 
Memphis put up 30 points on six drives in the first half and not a point more as the FBS series later widened to 12-0 in favor of the Knights. It was certain doom for UCF and their top-ten ranking, Milton’s Heisman campaign, the 18-0 win streak, and their college football playoff hopes.
Problems arose on both sides of the ball in the first half for the visiting team: numerous penalties, missed tackles, and bad plays made the top-ten team look bottom-tier. Memphis’ Darrell Henderson couldn’t be stopped. The Tigers identified and took advantage of every weakness they found in UCF – two scores in the first quarter, three scores in the second quarter and Mike Norvell must have stood seemingly satisfied with the comfortable lead his team built against the unbeaten Knights.
Milton suffered three sacks and struggled to overcome what the Memphis defense, rated far below UCF’s, brought to his doorstep. A three-score deficit resulted in the Knights’ lowest scoring game since 2017 featuring Navy and SMU away from home.
At the start of the second half, the UCF defense made crucial and immediate adjustments and stuffed Memphis in the run and pass game ever since. Henderson was met with a defender on most plays. A slow close of the scoring gap broke when McKenzie Milton ran in for a touchdown to take the lead 31-30 in the final quarter.
Three fumbles on alternating possessions within minutes changed the atmosphere in the fourth quarter as UCF recovered against Memphis, then fumbled on offense, then recovered again on defense.
Knights fans would then see the slowest UCF tempo over the past two years as Heupel opted to play it safe and let the clock wind down. Runs through fourth down, and eating a delay of game penalty on the punt, were two of the ways the head coach made every second count.
Memphis saw huge breaks with a first down at midfield and another right within field goal zone. A subsequent false start from their offense turned a possible 52-yard field goal to an improbable 57-yarder. Officials took 10 seconds from the clock after the penalty from the 28 yards left in the game to renew Norvell’s nightmare encounters with UCF.
In 2017, Memphis’ only two losses – 40-13, 62-55 2OT – in an otherwise stellar season came at the hands of UCF. The latter being the American Conference Championship.
One more pass within bounds from the Tigers saw the clock run out and the Knights and the UCF-faithful breathe and celebrate in relief. 
Photo: UCF Athletics Communications



The No. 10 UCF Knights escaped a nightmare scenario in Memphis when they defeated the Tigers and halted their 12-game home winning streak with a 31-30 fourth-quarter comeback.
Everything went wrong in the first three quarters for the Knights: numerous penalties, missed tackles, and bad plays made the top-ten team look bottom-tier. Memphis’s Darrel Henderson couldn’t be stopped.
At the start of the second half, the UCF defense made adjustments and stuffed Memphis ever since. A slow close of the scoring gap broke when McKenzie Milton ran in for a touchdown to take the lead 31-30.
Three fumbles within minutes changed the atmosphere in the fourth as UCF recovered against Memphis, then lost, then recovered again.
Stay tuned for a full game recap.



The series between the two conference opponents stands at 11-1, in favor of the Knights, but that won’t change the 54/46 odds (ESPN) needed to keep the record going.
Those odds seem a little high when a 5-0 team takes on a 4-2 team, especially one that suffered a three-score loss to Tulane and failed to overcome Navy’s prehistoric option offense, however challenging. Both teams built their leads on the backs of weak colleges this time around. UCF, however, will enter with close to the strength it had to finish an undefeated season in 2017 while keeping the 49ppg average through this Saturday.
Memphis QB Brady White carries a better quarterback a slightly better resume in numbers against McKenzie Milton: 1549 passing yards, 15 TDs, 1 interception to Milton’s 1501 passing yards, 15 TDs, and 4 interceptions. The Tiger’s rushing season leader far exceeds the Knights: Darrell Henderson, the nation’s leading rusher accounted for 934 yards in six games on 79 carries, with 12 TDs to boot. UCF’s Adrian Killins ran for 346 yards on 65 carries with only 4 touchdowns, by comparison.
Without Riley Furguson, it’s difficult to achieve again the 55 points Memphis did in the American Conference Championship on the Knights. The deciding touchdown was an interception in double overtime that handed UCF the path to a New Year’s Six bowl; all but chance on defense and the only the second loss Memphis saw that season, courtesy of the Black and Gold.
A loss to unranked Memphis would drop No. 10 UCF from the rankings and erase its chances at entering the College Football Playoff while the win for Memphis would fruit nothing more than bragging rights in their two-loss season so far. Houston (4-1) is having just an electrifying season and sits closer to December’s AAC Championship.
At face value, UCF should dismantle the Tigers as it has done with its previous 18 opponents. McKenzie Milton, Adrian Killins, Otis Anderson, and others are as close to their preceding season success as ever. A Liberty Bowl home field advantage is the greatest advantage Memphis will have.
UCF at Memphis will air on EPSN2 on Saturday at 3:30 p.m.



