The University of Central Florida hired former Florida defensive coordinator Randy Shannon, whose contract details and salary are emerging this New Year.
Former UCF head coach Scott Frost led the Knights to its greatest achievement in program history, ending a Cinderella season in Orlando with his departure to Nebraska, his alma mater, with the entire UCF football staff in tow.
Director of Athletics Danny White quickly moved to Missouri offensive coordinator Josh Heupel – completely under the radar. Heupel and White then moved to Shannon, who was fired from Florida after the Gators had a freefall within their program.
Randy Shannon’s three-year deal with the Knights includes a $300,000 salary per year from UCF and the rest (about $2.2 million from UF in buyout pay over two years) through January 31, 2020.
After that date, Shannon’s pay will increase to $1 million from UCF with a $300,000 retention pay in February 2020.
This will put the defensive coordinator at $800,000 more than the next-highest-paid assistant at a ‘Group of 5’ school, with Colorado State Offensive Coordinator Will Friend currently at $540,000 this season.
White and the athletic department fundraised more than $5 million in donations as the 2017 season progressed with the initial intent to keep Scott Frost from leaving to another institution offering a higher pay. Now that fund will be used to keep the current staff. UCF has hinted at Heupel’s retention with the use of his commitment to ‘sustained success’ in their announcement of the hire.
The UCF Excellence Fund intends to rival tradition ‘Power 5’ programs in salary, arguing that the Knights are in a Power 6 conference and deserve the same rewards the P5 enjoy year-after-year.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football news.



All current University of Central Florida students, faculty, and staff may now ride all Lynx bus routes for free with a valid UCF ID, the university announced Friday.
From the UCF Student Government Association: KnightLYNX is a safe and reliable public transportation option on and near the UCF campus, launched in the Spring 2011 semester. The Blue line operates from 6:00 PM to 12:00 am, and the Red-line from 9:15 PM to 3:00 AM on Friday and Saturday nights and travels throughout the UCF community.




Florida lawmakers have introduced House Bill 1359 – a bill that allows Florida drivers to own a UCF National Champions 2017 specialty license plate.
“Collegiate license plates must bear the colors and design approved by the department as appropriate for each state and independent university,” the bill says.
“The word ‘Florida’ must be stamped across the bottom of the plate in small letters, except for the University of Central Florida specialty license plate, which shall have ‘2017 National Champions’ stamped across the bottom of the plate.”
Governor Rick Scott signed and sealed a proclamation declaring the Knights national champions in Florida in the days following UCF’s victory over Auburn in the Chick-fil-a Peach Bowl.
Florida representatives from South Florida to Central Florida and now to North Florida have also pushed for the Knights to claim and keep their championship title.
We spoke to Representative Mike Miller on UCF Football and his letter to the President. Check out the video in the article below.
Fla. Representative Mike Miller Speaks on Why He Believes the 13-0 Knights Deserve a White House Visit

View the bill here – UCF mentioned on page 7 of 23.



Florida may not be known for its classic claim-to-fame food items – that is, until Publix grocery introduced its own deli service to customers.
Enter the Pub-Sub, a reliably delicious sandwich that Florida does better than anyone else, according to Thrillist, a food, drink, travel, and entertainment website.
It’s something you buy after class, before the beach, for lunch or dinner, all while you wait in a line eleven deep with students on the last sale day just to get one, after asking the deli workers if they’ve had a break from chicken tenders all day since opening time. To which they reply, “no.”
It is a Florida classic.
Mom doesn’t have time for dinner? Just buy Publix’s Hawaiian Rolls, a box of hot fried chicken, potato salad in front of the Deli, and maybe half-subs for the family.
But there’s one more question to ask: Pub-Sub or Wawa-Run?
Read the entire article at Thrillist.com.



