Knight News sent out a tweet asking for rush event schedules this morning, to help spread the word to those interested in rush.
Make sure you follow @UCFKnightNews on Twitter and Instagram to stay informed!
Send us your fraternity rush event schedule if you’d like it to be included in our article listing rush events. News@knightnews.com
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) January 15, 2019

Here are some of the events we learned of so far. Check back for new ones as we hear of more. (Rush chairs: You still can email us to add yours if you haven’t already.)
Wednesday, January 16
3 to 6 p.m. – Phi Delta Theta house
5 to 7 p.m. – Sigma Chi House
7 to 9 p.m. – Pi Kappa Phi house
Thursday, January 17
4 to 7 p.m. – Phi Delt House
5 to 7 p.m. – Sigma Alpha Epsilon house
5 to 7 p.m. Theta Chi house 5-7
5:30 to 7:30 AEPi brotherhood BBQ
6 to 9 p.m. – TKE Burger U event
10 p.m. – KYX Christian Fraternity Boardwalk Bowl
Saturday, Jan. 19
1 to 3 p.m. – Sigma Chi House
1 to 4 p.m. – TKE Student Union Chilis
SEE THE NEXT WEEK’S RUSH EVENTS ON THE NEXT PAGE, BY CLICKING BELOW: 



UCF has quarterback depth coming in for this next season.
Notre Dame graduate transfer quarterback Brandon Wimbush has chosen to transfer to UCF for the 2019 football season. Wimbush will be able to play next season.
With McKenzie Milton recovering from a knee injury, this will give the Knights an experienced veteran to help the young quarterbacks out. Wimbush broke the news on his Instagram.
“I am excited to announce that UCF has granted me an awesome opportunity to play my last year of collegiate football for their great university,” Wimbush said on Instagram. “Thank you to Coach Heupel, and Coach Lebby for this incredible opportunity. Looking forward to winning ’em all!”
Wimbush was the first-string quarterback for Notre Dame in 2017 and led the team to a 21-17 victory over LSU in the Citrus Bowl in Orlando.
The dual-threat player had the Fighting Irish starting position taken by Ian Book in 2018, where Book helped to finish the regular season undefeated before falling to Clemson in the CFP Semi-final game.

 The journey continues on… A sincere thank you to Notre Dame for giving me endless opportunities on and off the field. Words truly can not describe what this incredible University and the PEOPLE mean to me and always will mean to me. I’m truly thankful. Cannot say it enough. With that being said, I am excited to announce that UCF has granted me an awesome opportunity to play my last year of collegiate football for their great University. Thank you to Coach Heupel, and Coach Lebby for this incredible opportunity. Looking forward to winning em all! #GoIrish #GoKnights
A post shared by @ brandon_wimbush7 on Jan 15, 2019 at 8:37am PST
 
UCF starts the 2019 season without star quarterback McKenzie Milton, but with Darriel Mack, Jr., Mililani High School recruit Dillon Gabriel, and now Notre Dame’s Brandon Wimbush.
Stay tuned with Knight News for more UCF Football updates.
Joseph Klawe-Genao contributed to this report.



The University of Central Florida added 1398 new driver’s license plates to the road in 2018, enough to pass the University of Florida by a hundred plates.
UCF topped out at 6,683 in Orange County, as of December 2018, with UF at 6,557, and FSU in third at 4,215. The sales can be attributed to the Knights’ success on the field, with a 25-0 winning streak over the previous two years.
When UCF sold its previous rendition of license plates, the university ranked top five in most state university license plates sold in Florida, beating the University of South Florida at No. 6 in 2008 sales.
The Florida House of Representatives unanimously approved a UCF championship license plate to commemorate the 2017 season, further adding to sales.
UCF’s Fiesta Bowl Loss is Still A Win For Group of 5 Schools




