There’s a sense of calm washing over Memory Mall.
It could be the smell of basil, the bubbles flying all around or the live music playing.
“Students just are in the place of not thinking about what you’re doing all the time, they’re kind of on autopilot,” said Pam Mills, the biofeedback and stress management program coordinator at Wellness & Health Promotion Services. “Mindfulness doesn’t necessarily have to be meditating or doing something serene. Doing every day activities mindfully and doing things one at a time helps the brain to sort everything that’s going on.”
On Wednesday, from noon to 3 p.m. at Memory Mall, student wellness services like the Recreation and Wellness Center, and Student Counseling and Psychological Services held their annual Just Be Day.
The event focused on giving students a time to relax and feel less stressed about upcoming finals.
UCF on-campus services had booths with individual activities that helped students refocus on themselves. The RWC hosted mini meditation yoga and meditation sessions and WHPS held a Fresh U cooking demonstration which taught students how to make pesto.
All around, more than 300 students attended Just Be Day, an increase from 200 students in the two previous years. For every booth visited, students had a punch card that was punched. By the end, if they had visited all the booths they were able to get a free Just Be Day shirt.
Other services like the Arboretum had students plant their own basil to take home and grow. Student Care Services had a banner where students could sit down and color while enjoying the afternoon sun. CAPS had a booth set up to help answer students’ questions about counseling.
“They [CAPS] definitely left me with some questions to think about, that was pretty deep, and I didn’t even know how to answer it,” Sam Charles, a pre-med biology sophomore, said. “I’m probably going to think it over and if anything, there’s the initial assessment [for counseling] and see if I need help.”
Students like biomedical sciences sophomore Judith Acosta, attended the event last year and said it greatly relieved stress from her finals which is why she wanted to attend again this year. WHPS also had a booth out that let students create their own aroma spritzer using essential oils. Acosta said it was what caught her eye and made her want to come to the event.
“The essential oils they gave out smell great and I’m definitely implementing it into my studying,” Acosta said. “I’m going to put it on the inside of my wrist and see if it helps me concentrate better. I’m also going to practice being more mindful when I’m studying.”
The event also included live music from UCF health science alumnus Alex Baron. He played live music at last year’s Just Be Day. He said he understood how stressed students felt when finals were coming up and wanted to help students again this year with his music.
“A lot of students get caught up in the day to day grind,” Baron said. “There’s so many distractions in college that lead you away from your path and what you’re trying to do. Events like this really bring people back so they can relax and do what they need to do.”
To get students to really understand what it means to be “mindful”, Mills said the event is really for students to live in the moment with all the small activities.
“Mindfulness is being intentional,” Mills said. “If you’re in the moment of every aspect, as you’re walking to class, being aware of your breathing, being aware of your foot as you’re going along the pathway, taking in what’s around you, the beautiful trees, you’re again in focus and you’re not worrying about something that happened yesterday, or worrying about our grades like we tend to do. You’re able to be in the moment and be more successful.”



Clarification: This story was updated on April 4 to clarify that it remains unclear whether workers would be paid, because UCF has not commented. 
The University of Central Florida lost more than $1 million in an agreement for the Orlando Apollos to play at Spectrum Stadium and is now trying to figure out how to get paid from the suspended league, WFTV reported Wednesday.
UCF hosted the Orlando Apollos (7-1) on campus until the parent league to the team suspended all operations before the season finished. The Apollos were scheduled to play at Spectrum Stadium two more times on Saturday, April 6 and Sunday, April 14. It is unclear whether the terminated employees, vendors or staff will get paid, as the university has chosen not to comment on the situation, according to WFTV.
Stay tuned for more information.



Even under the gloomy skies, the local Chick-fil-A drive-thru is full of smiles, laughter and the sounds of dogs barking.
On Tuesday from 2 – 4 p.m., the Chick-fil-A on Mitchell Hammock Road held their first “Drive-Thru Dog Show.” Over 35 guests and over 60 dogs came out to participate at the Oviedo location just north of the UCF main campus.
“It would be a really great way to have people in Oviedo feel like they’re a part of Chick-fil-A, and that’s what our goal is today,” said Skylair Davis, a shift leader and social media manager at the Chick-fil-A.
Some owners brought one dog while others brought up to five.
Kevin Heckle, a regular at the Chick-fil-A and political science UCF alumnus, brought his two dogs, Keeper and Olive, to the event. He said he comes almost every other day and his dogs come at least three times a week to the location.
“It’s always good to have an event to bring your dog or people out to have lunch with your family,” Heckle said.
Owner’s contact information was taken along with a photo of the dog or dogs. Pups were also given the choice of either a Milk-Bone treat or some carrots.
The photos of the dogs will be uploaded to Facebook. Whichever dog’s photo gets the most likes by the end of Friday, April 5, will win a “doggy prize pack,” which includes promotional bandannas, water bottles, dog bowls and shirts.
The dog show was Davis’ idea. He said he thought the event would bring more community engagement to the location.
“I really liked the interactions we had with them [guests],” Davis said. “A lot of people were really happy with the way it was set up and they were really happy we were making an effort to connect with them.”
The Oviedo Chick-fil-A already hands out treats daily to dogs who come through the drive through. Davis said he thought the event would also bring in more customers during the slower hours between 2 – 4 p.m.
Melissa Bills, the marketing director of the Mitchell Hammock Road Chick-fil-A, said during those specific hours there’s a significant decline of customers compared to the busy lunch hours of 12 – 1 p.m. On Monday, the number of cars that came through the drive-through was 85 from between 2 – 4 p.m. while the lunch hours were around 120 – 140 cars.
“We wanted two of our slowest hours of the day dedicated to dogs, which is also good for us because it brings in more sales for us,” Bills said. “The adults are getting their food and the little puppies and dogs get their treats too when they visit us.”
The event brought dozens of guests and their furry friends who don’t normally come to Chick-fil-A during those hours. Davis said the event caused the drive through to be much busier than normal which was helpful to the restaurant.
Extra staff was also called in to ensure there were enough hands to help take photos and food orders.
The event was promoted on Facebook and was engaged with 10,000 times, Davis said. To engage with the page it was either viewed, liked, shared or commented on. He said it was the biggest Facebook post the Oviedo Chick-fil-A has had so far since opening.
The marketing team hopes to continue doing dog shows in the future. Davis said if they were to do so, the time would likely change from 2 – 4 p.m. to 5 – 7 p.m. He said due it being after work, people will be available to come during dinner hours to double the number of dog owners who came on Tuesday.
“A lot of people appreciate the community aspect that we have here,” Davis said. “People come in, regulars, all the time and they always bring their dogs. There’s people we know by name and we do this stuff for people like them, who appreciate us as much as we appreciate them.”



