In August, UCF opened its doors to the new dorms at UnionWest where
students were promised restaurants and kitchens to cook in. 
Yet there was a bit of an issue, none of the restaurants were built and
the ovens weren’t working.
Students had to rely on microwaves, conventional ovens that the campus
provided, and delivery services such as Uber eats.
Now three months later, Dunkin Donuts has been built and a Subway is opening
up soon. Even the ovens have started functioning.
Though being able to obtain food has improved, not many students
realize that there was another way to get affordable food during that time
period.
The Marriott right next to the downtown campus has a restaurant inside
called the Shade Bar and Grill which offers a discount menu only for UCF and
Valencia students.
The food options on the menu range from burgers to wings to flatbread, that were created by some of the staff such as the restaurant manager, director of operations, and the chief manager.
“We
just kind of try to get creative and say what would college students like,”
said kitchen manager, Omari Lewis. “When I was in college, I liked something
cheap, good and affordable.”
Usually a student will not pay over $20 for a meal. For example, an order of any sandwich on the menu comes with a beverage and fries for about $8. If fries are wanted separately or with a different entree then they are $3, to which the student can choose between crinkle cut or sweet potato. 
The
menu has actually undergone a reboot through requests by students and an
Instagram poll. Adding new food options like soups, salads, and veggie burgers.
“We have a great connection with our community,” said Tara Moran, assistant restaurant manager. “And we wanted to reach out to the UCF and Valencia community as well.”
There is another option if students don’t want to order from the discount menu. Students can order from the regular menu but are only given a 10 percent discount.
Though
not many students know about this menu despite handing out flyers on campus
when the menu started, there are a few that have discovered it through word of
mouth and what opportunity it brings.
Lauren Jones, UCF animation graduate student, said having this menu is convenient since it’s close by and not a lot of students have cars meaning that it can be difficult to get food.
“Also,
because the restaurants under UnionWest that we were promised are not finished
yet,” Jones said.
Not
just that but Carolina Hoffman, Valencia sophomore hospitality and management
major, has noticed how much of a struggle it is to get “real food” on campus,
with the food trucks being very expensive and not good, she said.
“It’s
like fast food, it doesn’t taste good, it’s super unhealthy and it’s so
expensive,” Hoffman said. “The school doesn’t provide an eating place, so this
is good quality and it offers good prices.”



It’s a sunny day, you can feel the warmth of the sun’s rays behind your
neck  as sweat trickles your back. 
Somehow you ended up in Saudi Arabia only to see people celebrating,
dancing with sticks, and eating food mainly made out of dates.
This is the festival of Al-Jenadriyah where all the regions of Saudi Arabia meet to celebrate the culture of each region, and it is the first time celebrated at UCF.
Which is exactly what happened
at Memory Mall where it was decorated with tents to
represent the north, south, east, west, and central regions of Saudi Arabia.
Due to International Education Week, The Saudi Student Association
decided to host this festival since it coincides around the same time. 
There
are so many different cultures in the regions of Saudi Arabia. For example,
according to the president of the Saudi Student Association, Rodwan Alharbi,
there are different methods of fishing across Saudi Arabia.
The
south region could have its own version while the western region could have a
different way of how to fish, and so on and so forth. This meant that Alharbi
needed help representing those cultures.
In
order to make this happen, Alharbi made an announcement inviting anyone from
the main five regions to come and help present during the festival, whether it
be making meals or putting on traditional cloths.
This
resulted in a group of Saudi students who had never met before who had to work
as a team and put the festival together in two weeks.
“This
event will let people know about our culture,” said Sari Alhujuri, electrical
engineering freshman. “You learn so much and you’ll try every region’s food
too, so there’s a plus, everyone loves food.”
Alharbi
described that students connecting and making new friends while bonding over
preparations for the festival made him feel delighted.
Though
this is Alharbi’s last year as president, he has high hopes for the future of
the association 
“We’re
going to have a new group and hopefully they come with new ideas better than
us,” Alharbi said. “That’s what we want, every year make something better than
before.”
Yet the festival wasn’t just all fun and games, what was also
demonstrated was Vision 2030 which is a plan to reduce dependence on oil for
Saudi Arabia’s economy and put more development in different sectors like
education, health or tourism. 
“Vision 2030 is Saudi Arabia depending on itself from imports from
economics from everything,” said Salma Alagla, first year English learner and a
member of the association. “There’s separate sections that Saudi focuses on
mostly which is economic, education, and entertainment.”
A few projects are in the works such as opening up a Six Flags type
theme park to bring in more tourism and the King Salman bridge to help bring
cargo from across the sea. The bridge will link Europe and Asia.
Having the opportunity to celebrate Al-Jenadriyah gave the students of UCF a very broad experience.
“I feel like they have so much love to give and they’re just special people,” said Pauline Kabambi, a junior in international relations and global studies. “Maybe I might not be able to go to their country but just having this gives me a glimpse of how they live and what type of people they are.” 



