It has been three days since we have started our Exposing inSECurity campaign to further our investigation into the college football playoff system.
In these three days our investigation and campaign have gone viral and already raised $950! The investigation has gotten people very interested. We have appeared on Fox 35 Orlando and the High Motor Podcast to discuss our campaign. WESH 2 News and the Cincinnati Enquirer are among the others who also covered our campaign. 
The campaign and even the first news package we produced has stirred up a ton of controversy. We have seen both sides reacting in different ways. 
Support has come from many fans of the group of five schools, but that is not the only support we have received. Fans from schools in the power five conferences have supported and agree that we need to continue investigating.
Meanwhile, on the other side we have gotten a lot of negative remarks and attacks from fans and supporters of the SEC apparently attempting to discourage us from continuing our investigation. 
Some SEC fans are even trying to intimidate us by falsely claiming we are breaking trademark laws, even though the law clearly allows trademarked logos to be used in news reporting and investigations like Exposing inSECurity. 
Other SEC fans even tried to discourage the investigation by threatening Knight News’ non-profit status — even though the IRS has issued rulings allowing non-profit student newspapers to sell ads to supports their mission for years, including SEC schools like UF and Georgia.
Overall the amount of discussion that this investigation has started has made us want to dig even deeper and shine even more of a light on a system that could be possibly be unfair. 
The negative feedback and threats will not stop or hinder our investigation, as we will continue to do our due diligence to shine a light on the current system.



The University of Central Florida dropped four spots to No. 11 in the final AP Poll of the 2018 season after falling to LSU 32-40 in the Fiesta Bowl.
Boasting a 25-0 record that spanned two seasons, the Knights were unable to close the gap against LSU on New Year’s Day. A weakened offensive line and several missed opportunities to gain touchdowns throughout the game allowed LSU to keep the lead.
The Tiger’s, however, jumped to No. 6 in the rankings from No. 11 in the close victory.
Full rankings:
1. Clemson
2. Alabama
3. Ohio State
4. Oklahoma
5. Notre Dame
6. LSU
7. Georgia
7. Florida
9. Texas
10. Washington State
11. UCF
12. Kentucky
13. Washington
14. Michigan
15. Syracuse
16. Texas A&M
17. Penn State
18. Fresno State
19. Army
20. West Virginia
21. Northwestern
22. Utah State
23. Boise State
24. Cincinnati
25. Iowa
UCF’s Fiesta Bowl Loss is Still A Win For Group of 5 Schools




The University of Central Florida expects to open its first on-campus hotel by early 2020, the university announced in January.
The Pegasus Hotel, near the intersection of University Blvd. and Alafaya Trail, will have 179 rooms over five floors and cater to an upscale clientele as part of the Marriott Brand.

“Featuring more than 10,000 square feet of conference and event space with a private dining room, the full-service hotel also will have a lobby bar, restaurant, take-away pantry, and room service,” UCF said in a release.
“There will be more than 6,000 square feet of lawn for events adjacent to the restaurant and outdoor pool.”

The hotel partners – DEVEN Group, Demetree Global, and Pinnacle Hotel Management – claim UCF will fill a market need that caters to the higher tier by opening this hotel.
“We have enjoyed over 20 years in the UCF market since opening our first hotel, the Courtyard by Marriott in Collegiate Village,” says Ron Franklin, president of Pinnacle.
“We look forward to the opportunity to open a truly first-class hotel and convention center in the market.”
Read more:
2015
UCF to Propose Upscale Guest Hotel and Conference Center on Campus

2017
Future UCF Hotel Project to go to Board of Trustees in July Meeting




University of Central Florida students arrived back to campus from Winter Break to see Steak ‘n Shake open in the Student Union and Q’doba moved to the new food court.
The restaurant selected by students to fill the “Burger” category in a 2017 poll is among the last new food options to move in the new student union project. Steak ‘n Shake offers low priced meals and a variety of milkshakes in a diner setting. Menu below:


The 21st Century Student Union project is underway to meet the needs of America’s largest university by undergraduate population. A lack of seating and electricity outlets in the Union and John C. Hitt Library have led to both receiving renovations.
UCF Begins Construction on Phase One John Hitt Library Expansion

The current Union was constructed in 1997 when UCF student enrollment included only 28,000 students. Now, with 66,000 students, the Board of Trustees approved a construction project and multi-million dollar agreement with Aramark to provide a 21st-century heart of campus to students.
An increase in seating – 400 to 1,150, and 315 seats to about 750 in the food court alone, power outlets, and a second floor to the food court can be expected with the project. Additional restaurants have been selected for the expansion.
Q’Doba moved from its original spot between the Union atrium and Pegasus Ballroom to the new food court so that the expansion can move on to the next phase. A new staircase, expanded food court, and other amenities will take the place of the Boar’s Head and, previously, Q’Doba locations.
A New Heart of Campus, the 2019 Student Union




