Winter Park Police are investigating the death of UCF faculty member, Director Michael Redlick.
According to police, Saturday at approximately 9:30 a.m, officers responded to 1231 Temple Drive in Winter Park for a report of a deceased male. As part of an ongoing investigation, authorities have released few details surrounding the 65-year-old male’s death, but have described his at home death as ‘suspicious’. The cause of death is unknown.
According to a Winter Park Police tweet, the incident is under investigation, there are no suspects at this time, and the surrounding community is in no danger. 
Redlick has served as the University of Central Florida Director of External Affairs and Partnership Relations for the DeVos Sport Business Management Program since October of 2013. 
“We are deeply saddened and heartbroken to learn of Michael’s passing. Mike and his family are in our thoughts and prayers. He was our colleague and our friend and a mentor to many of our students here in the Devos Sport Business Management program at UCF. He will be greatly missed”, said UCF in a statement. 
According to his UCF biography, Redlick’s professional endeavors included time as Chief Sales Officer & Chief Marketing Officer for the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and Vice President of Business Development for the San Francisco 49ers.
He is survived by his wife and two children.



247 Sports released a list of the toughest environments for the 2019 football season and UCF’s own Spectrum Stadium topped at No. 4 in their list.
The Knights ended a 25-game winning streak at the Fiesta Bowl on New Year’s Day however continue a 15-game home winning streak by welcoming Stanford in the home opener on September 14.
“2019 expectations: The ‘Bounce House’ in Orlando has turned into one of the toughest places to play in college football during UCF’s rise to prominence as the team to beat among Group of 5 powers. There’s something about the Knights’ unwillingness to lose, especially at home, during their memorable 25-game winning streak that captivated those following the program over the past two seasons. During the 2018 campaign, UCF’s first under coach Josh Heupel, the Knights erased a 10-point deficit vs. Temple on a Thursday night and later came all the way back from 17-points down at halftime to beat Memphis in the AAC title game, doing it without McKenzie Milton.”
Full list:
ALABAMA (BRYANT-DENNY STADIUM)
CLEMSON (MEMORIAL STADIUM)
GEORGIA (SANFORD STADIUM)
247 Sports concedes that predicting home-field advantages in 2019 is “much like way-too-early rankings – extremely subjective and there’s a lot of guessing here on where these teams will fall based on talent and schedule favorability.”
Fans of teams from the Power 5 conferences let them know.



