A campus-wide alert warning those in Tower 1 to “SHELTER IN PLACE!” around 11:35 p.m. on Friday drew criticism on social media and prompted an apology from UCF Police.
“We understand that words matter. In a situation with heightened stress, we made a poor choice in our initial language,” UCFPD tweeted. “We know this caused undue panic and stress by those we serve and protect, and for that we apologize.”
We understand that words matter. In a situation with heightened stress, we made a poor choice in our initial language. 
We know this caused undue panic and stress by those we serve and protect, and for that we apologize. https://t.co/NAigCKl5B0
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) July 27, 2019

A second alert from campus police  arrived nearly an hour after the first at roughly 12:30 a.m., advising students that police received a call about a “person with a firearm in waistband entering Tower 1.” The alert added that authorities are “working to make contact” and advised the community to avoid the area.
A third alert from campus police was received by the community around 1:23 a.m. It announced that the situation no longer posed a threat to campus but was still “active and ongoing.”
It took another 20 minutes, 1:46 a.m., before the UCF community would learn that law enforcement discovered that the ‘person with a firearm’ was in possession of a BB gun.
This is a picture of the BB gun that led to the report at Tower 1. 
We're grateful for the Knight who saw something and said something, and we're happy the situation was peacefully resolved. pic.twitter.com/avJBJYFTKD
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) July 27, 2019

Critics of UCFPD’s alerts point at the roughly two-hour span between the university’s first alert and the third, when police declared that the ‘person with a firearm’ no longer posed a threat. During this time, the university offered little details while false information began to flood onto social media.
Do better. If people don't know why they should shelter in place, they won't do it. Shootings are over in minutes. Communication like this will cost lives
— kyle (@perpetuamotus) July 27, 2019

 
What were we supposed to think? pic.twitter.com/aFyjy1x7qC
— delayney // 9 days!! (@dinkdjh) July 27, 2019

UCF Police Chief Carl Metzger apologized for the ‘inconvenience’ while speaking with Knight News early Saturday morning.
“The general alert that was sent out was non-specific and did mislead people to think that perhaps the incident was more serious than it really was,” Chief Metzger told Knight News.
The 29-year law enforcement veteran described it as an area where the department will need to improve and added the incident will serve as a lesson they can learn from.
Many rushed to support UCF Police on Twitter and the actions the department took that night. They highlight that the department did the best they could with the information they had available and how they are using the incident as a learning experience.
https://twitter.com/chandlertorress/status/1155023271257096192
you guys did what you could with the information you had at the time being. we love you!!!!
— warm honey (@thegrimweeperr) July 27, 2019

 
According to Metzger, the student in possession of the BB gun was not arrested but will face student conduct procedures.
 
 



The University of Central Florida issued two urgent Shelter In Place notices to students late Friday night.
The alert ordered students to stay in place, away from windows and doors, and secure the building. Shortly after midnight Saturday morning, UCF Police tweeted an update to the alert:
#UCFAlert: We received a call about a person with a firearm in his waistband entering Tower 1. We are working to make contact with the individual.
Please avoid the area for now as we work this situation. All other campus operations are normal.
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) July 27, 2019
 
The account stated that rumors of a shooting are inaccurate.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office reported a call for Mutual Aid on West Plaza Drive, where Towers 1 is located, shortly after 11 p.m.
We are working to find details and will have a reporter on scene. Send tips on Twitter or to news@knightnews.com.
“UCF Alert: SHELTER IN PLACE! Seek shelter immediately in nearest building, away from doors and windows. Remain indoors and secure the building.”
Updates:
We are on scene where police have already cordoned off the area. 
Several law enforcement officers are armed with long rifles along the area. pic.twitter.com/aprQyxUxiv
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 
Orange County deputies are on-scene outside Tower 1. pic.twitter.com/QlRDPQsGs9
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 
BREAKING: @OCFireRescue reports a structural fire near the #UCF Nike community pic.twitter.com/Bo4xwIedsm
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 
UCF Police:We are still working this call about an individual who we've since identified entering Tower 1 with a firearm. 
We know who he is and where he is. There is no larger threat to campus, but we are asking our community to avoid the Tower 1 area so that we can do our job
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 
Police have begun extending the perimeter of the scene. 
Media is starting to gather near RWC @ Knights Plaza. #UCF Alerts pic.twitter.com/VDSpuimKLK
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 
The reported structure fire from @OCFireRescue has been removed from the active call log. Radio scanners suggest a smoke alarm. No fire to report
The scene at Towers 1/Arena is stable and there is no current threat to the #UCF campus
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 
Here is what the view outside UCF Tower 1 looks like right now. 
Police parked out front. 
If you have pictures or video of the #UCFAlert to share with us tweet us or email news@knightnews.com. pic.twitter.com/DIggPsRBfl
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) July 27, 2019
 



