UCF’s Sigma Chi fraternity is accused of controlled substance and drug violations, according to an Oct. 26 incident reporting form. 
“A pledge was blindfolded and made to do cocaine in order to become initiated into the frat,” the document states. “He had been forced to stay at the frat house from October 21-27. He was initiated shortly after taking the drug.” 
The document does not list how the allegation was received or who it was made by.
UCF spokesman Mark Schlueb said in a Tuesday email the investigation is still ongoing and many details can not be shared, but said an associate of the student pledging the fraternity reported the allegation.
“Sigma Chi has not yet received a full report of the incident from the university. We take such accusations very seriously and will work closely with the university through the student conduct process,” UCF Sigma Chi President Brian Walls said. “Sigma Chi is an organization built on values of leadership and character. We look forward to bringing this matter to a conclusion.” 
In May, Sigma Chi was accused of disruptive conduct, alcohol-related misconduct, drug-related misconduct, misconduct at a UCF sponsored or related activities, and possessing and/or providing false and misleading information while at Isla Bella Beach Resort in Marathon, Florida, according to an incident reporting form. 
After an administrative hearing on Sept. 12, Sigma Chi was placed on organizational disciplinary suspension for the fall academic term through spring 2020, according to the report. 
While at the resort for their formal event, members of the fraternity booked the stay and signed the room agreement under a false name, according to the report. 
Michele Adomo, vice president of Sales & Marketing at EOS Hospitality, reported the fraternity to the Office of Student Conduct. Adomo said in the report, “the group called themselves ‘UCF Finance Club’ and that all contracts and room agreements were processed under the name ‘UCF Finance Club.’”
“[The] group booked the resort stating they were an MBA Retreat and [it] was for a ‘cultural’ student getaway,” Adomo said.
In her voicemail to the Office of Student Conduct, Adomo said the resort staff had to call police due to guest behavior and the incidents had become a public relations issue. 
She told the university that “rough sex that got out of control” led to the local sheriff’s office to be called was just one issue — Adomo said guests were smoking marijuana in their rooms and on the property, and students were jumping over the sides of the balconies and entering balconies of other guests. 
She said in the report she woke up to a group of five students on her balcony and asked them to leave. Adomo told the Office of Student Conduct the misconduct of the organization caused 33 room moves and an approximate financial loss of $43,000. 
The fraternity was found not in violation of disruptive conduct, alcohol-related misconduct and drug-related misconduct, but in violation of university wordmark violation, according to the incident reporting form.
This is a developing story and has been updated with new information. Check back for updates.



UCF’s Delta Upsilon fraternity was found in violation of five different hazing violations and alcohol-related misconduct, and placed on an organization disciplinary suspension on Nov. 25, according to documents from the Office of Student Conduct.
On Aug. 14, a call was made to UCF’s anti-hazing hotline by a Delta Upsilon fraternity pledge’s mother to report that her son, along with five other pledges, were forced to complete certain activities — like drinking a handle of liquor — and video themselves doing it as proof of completion, according to an incident report.
The mother, who stated in the report that both she and her son wish to remain anonymous, said the only member of the fraternity present at the time was the individual known as a “pledgemaster.” 
The videos were sent to the pledgemaster, and the mother said in the incident report she would be willing to send the videos to the hazing hotline email account to assist with the investigation.
According to the Office of Student Conduct documents, the fraternity was found in violation of: 
UCF spokesman Mark Schlueb said in a Friday email that the safety and wellbeing of students is the university’s top priority. 
“Student organizations that endanger their members and violate the university’s code of conduct must be held accountable. Hazing in any form is unacceptable,” Schlueb said in the email. “We are thankful to the chapter members and others who had the courage to speak up so the university could investigate.”
All executive members of Delta Upsilon are to schedule a one-on-one meeting with the Office of Student Conduct staff to discuss the outcome of the hearing and plan forward, according to documents. The fraternity is required to complete this sanction by May 1, 2020.
“UCF plans to bring chapter leaders together to discuss new ways to reinforce their commitment to Greek values,” Schlueb said in the statement. “University leaders also are planning more frequent training to develop and strengthen up-and-coming chapter leaders who will step in when experienced chapter presidents and board members graduate.”
The organizational disciplinary suspension, resulting in the fraternity losing its university recognition and registration, is for the fall and spring 2020 academic terms, according to the Office of Student Conduct documents.  While under organizational suspension, the chapter is prohibited from hosting or participating in any on or off-campus events, philanthropic activities, intramurals, socials, or mixers, according to the sanctions letter. The fraternity is only permitted to conduct routine business meetings designed to work toward the completion of the sanctions.
Following the disciplinary suspension, the fraternity will continue on an organizational deferred disciplinary suspension for the summer 2020 and fall 2020 academic terms, according to documents. The deferred disciplinary suspension is designed to give the fraternity a chance to demonstrate its ability to abide by the community’s expectations of behavior articulated in the Organizational Rules of Conduct, according to the sanctions letter.During its organizational deferred suspension, Delta Upsilon will officially be suspended, but the university will allow the organization to operate with sanction-specific restrictions, the sanction letter states.
This story is developing and will be updated with new information. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



