While most of us were asleep, SpaceX wrote history.
At 2:49 a.m. on Saturday, the private company propelled U.S. human space flight forward with the milestone launch of a Crew Dragon capsule, the first commercially built and operated spacecraft designed to transport humans to and from the Internal Space Station.
Following the predawn launch from Kennedy Space Center’s historic 39A launch pad, the Falcon 9 booster successfully separated from the Crew Dragon and returned to earth, landing on the “Of Course I Still Love You” platform based in the Atlantic Ocean, according to SpaceX.
What’s Ahead
The next step for the Crew Dragon capsule is an attempt to autonomously dock at the International Space Station which is scheduled at 6 a.m. on March 3, according to SpaceX.
Filled with roughly 400 pounds of equipment and supplies, it will remain docked at the ISS for five days before undocking and returning to earth.
The Crew Dragon’s stay is short.
It will attempt to autonomously undock from the International Space Station on Friday, March 8 at approximately 2:30 a.m. Roughly five hours after its departure from the space station, it will undergo its de-orbit burn and then reenter Earth’s atmosphere. It is expected to ‘splashdown’ into the Atlantic Ocean roughly 35 to 40 minutes later using a parachute system, according to SpaceX.
The estimated arrival time to earth is 8:45 a.m.
SpaceX needs to prove its safe
The man-less spacecraft is an attempt to demonstrate Space X’s “capability to safely and reliably fly astronauts to and from the International Space Station as part of NASA’s Commercial Crew Program”, said SpaceX in its mission overview.
The Crew Dragon is equipped with ‘environmental control and life support systems” to support human spaceflight, according to SpaceX.
Testing these abilities is Ripley, an onboard dummy fitted with an “anthropomorphic” spacesuit equipped with sensors around the head, neck, and spine. Named after Sigourney Weaver’s character in Alien, Ripley will assess and document conditions from within the capsule in preparation for SpaceX’s second mission; one which will include NASA astronauts on board, according to SpaceX.
While no humans are aboard the spacecraft on its six-day mission known as Demo-1, a successful trip will bring Americans the closest to human space flight from U.S. soil since the retirement of the Space Shuttle program in 2011. According to the US Government Accountability Office, the U.S has relied on Russia to take its astronauts to and from the International Space Station with a price tag of 82 million per seat since the retirement of the Shuttle Program.
Watch video of the launch here.
Knight News will continue to track the Crew Dragon’s Voyage.
Check back for updates.
 



The University of Central Florida defeated the No. 8 Houston Cougars in Texas 69-64 on the national stage.
The Knights were neck-and-neck into the last two minutes until Aubrey Dawkins nailed a three to bring a 61-60 lead. Dawkins drilled NBA quality shots, a dramatic improvement over the last time the two met in early February where UCF fell 68-77.
UCF snapped the country’s longest home winning streak (35) with the victory.
Stay tuned for a full game writeup.



The University of Central Florida will be the only team to have College Gameday host both a football team and basketball team in the same academic year.
This time, the Knights will be the underdog in Texas on Saturday against the Houston Cougars. 
While UCF claimed victory in the football edition of College GameDay, the Knights will be the underdog against the No. 8 team and will seek to avenge a 68-77 loss at the beginning of February.
Houston is 27-1 (14-1 AAC) and holds a 35-game winning streak (UCF’s favorite feast) while commanding the top of the American Athletic Conference. UCF has a real shot at gracing the cutoff for March Madness – a win against Houston would make it so.



Students Emilia Kosonen and Karen Caudillo announced an end to their campaign as UCF student body president and vice president at an SGA senate meeting on Thursday.
After being charged with three campaign violations, Kosonen and Caudillo said they were forced to deactivate their social media accounts during the week of Feb. 11 and were “barred” from campaigning. This included speaking to any student or registered student organization at UCF – in person or via email, tabling or verbal expression by a third party during the week of February 18-24. 
By the end of the week, they had two more violations and a non-compliance complaint filed against them, according to Kosonen and Caudillo. They said these charges were “an unfair stretch of the statutes” and that they decided to withdraw from their candidacy with dignity. 
“Our institution from top to bottom should seek to hold itself to a much higher standard than the current reality being normalized,” they announced on their Instagram page Friday. “We must be an institution that works for the well-being of the students and for their best interest.”
Kosonen, a junior film major was running for student body president alongside Caudillo, running for vice president as a senior political science major. Their campaign slogan was “UKnighted for All”. This was Kosonen’s first time running and Caudillo’s second, her first time being for president in the 2018 run-off election with Theressa Tong as vice president. They lost to Josh Boloña and Jad Shalhoub, the current president and vice president.
Kosonen and Caudillo began their speech in Thursday’s senate meeting by saying that UCF’s updated statutes were “a mission to be found by any student.” They said that the process to file a violation was passed without advertisement of changes, so that only candidates within the system could use institutional forms of criticism. 
The intention of certain statutes used within Title VI of the election statutes, made to protect the interests of the student body, were instead used as a form of harassment, Kosonen and Caudillo said.
Some of Kosonen and Caudillo’s campaign plans included, divesting from the American food service corporation Aramark – due to their investments in private prisons and fossil fuels – making DACA and immigrant students feel safe on campus by making it a sanctuary on par with other major universities across the nation, and advertising for wage increases for students and professors which would hold the university accountable for any hardships the students are facing, according to their website.
Kosonen was the founder and president of UCF’s Knights for Animal Rights and the founder of UCF’s chapter of the Cellular Agriculture Society, an RSO where students can grow meat from cells. Last fall, Kosonen and Caudillo co-founded the Killjoy Society, UCF’s first women’s philosophy club. 
They said they hope that the other candidates still in the race will adopt some of their platform points and work together with them as well as the senate to continue to make UCF a better university.
Caudillo finished the speech in the senate meeting by commending her partner on the changes she made at UCF. She mentioned that Kosonen worked to hold Aramark accountable by leading a boycott against them and UCF’s dining halls, holding her first campaign in her sophomore year and getting elected as a senator in the student government, getting more vegan options on campus, and helping to pass a resolution in efforts to get an early polling station on campus. 
“It’s all about making sure that we’re doing things intentionally and for the right reasons. Self-interests, at the end of the day, will be the fault of our university,” Caudillo said.



