In a matter of days, UCF officials involved in the Colbourn Hall controversy will face judgment from someone other than their own colleagues.
The Florida Board of Governors is poised to determine if UCF has properly investigated and reacted to the Colburn Hall controversy.
“The Board of Governors is expected to discuss the report and UCF’s proposed corrective action during its Board meeting on January 30-31, and Board members will determine then whether the investigation and corrective actions are satisfactory – or if they need to take additional action,” according to the Florida Board of Governors Director of Communications, Brittany Wise.
While UCF has directed the scope of the misappropriation of funds investigation being performed by the law firm Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner, Wise indicated that the Board of Governors has the final say when it comes to corrective action.
Wise explained that in order for the Board of Governors to have directed the investigation, the University must be unable or unwilling to conduct the investigation by themselves. “Trustee Beverly Seay, as chair of UCF’s Audit Committee, was both willing and able to conduct the investigation – with no conflicts of interest,” Wise said.
The Board of Governors has monitored the investigation, as the Board’s inspector general is an active participant in interviews conducted by Bryan Cave, Wise said.
Contracts between UCF and Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner obtained by Knight News show that the law firm’s investigation has a specific scope determined by UCF. The scope included identifying guilty parties and determining what measures UCF should put into place to prevent such actions from being taken in the future.
Knight News will provide further updates as they are made available.



Bryan Cave attorney Joey Burby was asked an important question in the Board of Trustees meeting Friday about the investigation into the money that was used for the construction of Trevor Colbourn Hall.
William Yeargin, a member of the board, asked Burby if he had come across anything “incidentally” while he was reviewing documents and interviews outside the scope of what they were looking for that the board should know about.
During the special meeting on the #ColbournHallControversy, this trustee asked an important question: Whether @BCLPlaw attorney Joey Burby came across "anything" outside the scope of the investigation the BOT would want to know about. Listen to his careful answer. pic.twitter.com/o3tYgJ7sEA
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) January 19, 2019

Burby appeared very reserved and careful with his answer.
 “Nothing is coming to mind as I sit here but I’ll certainly give it some more thought and maybe there is a way for me to communicate that to the board after today in writing or in some other form,” said Burby. 
Burby’s firm was hired to investigate after a state audit exposed UCF’s misuse of funds that were used to build the new Trevor Colbourn Hall. The funding was said to be used as a last resort because Colbourn presented an imminent health and safety risk requiring emergency action. 
The investigation soon showed that the building was actually indeed in need of repair but was still safe and habitable. However, using the E&G carry forward funds for the renovations was still illegal.
The investigation involved reviewing tens and thousands of documents and also conducting over 56 interviews with 43 different witnesses. Knight News will continue working to find out if attorney Burby follows up with the question asked by the board.
The board will meet again this Thursday January 24 at Rosen to continue further talks on the matter.



