Disney workers received a sprinkling of pixie dust Thursday with word that The Mouse will pay 100% of their UCF tuition through Disney’s Aspire Education Investment Program.
The Disney Aspire Program, which begins for UCF in Fall of 2019, will provide both part and full-time employees with at least 90 days of service and a free ride to pursue both bachelor and master’s degrees in a variety of fields, many of which are online.
In addition to upfront tuition payment, cast-members will receive reimbursement for textbooks, course materials, and application fees – essentially dismantling the tall hurdle of initial attendance costs.
The University of Central Florida is the latest school to join Disney’s Aspire education network.
“Adding UCF to this prestigious network of schools will provide our Cast Members with even more options to create the futures they imagine,” George A. Kalogridis said in a press release. Kalogridis is president of Walt Disney World Resort and class of ‘76 UCF alumnus.
The UCF/Disney collaboration arrives as needed relief for many struggling with the rising cost of tuition in America. According to the U.S. Department of Education, tuition at four-year colleges has more than doubled over the past 30 years, and Debt.org, an Orlando based organization focused on helping American’s manage debt,  reports student debt averages hovering around 37,000.
In a press release, UCF interim president Thad Seymour Jr., acknowledged the significance of the partnership for the UCF student body.
“Many of our students already are Disney employees who will immediately benefit,” Seymour said. “This program has the potential to change lives in our community for generations.”
According to Disney, approximately 40% of their eligible 85,000 employees have enrolled in the program since its inception and more than 6,000 are taking classes. And with the addition of UCF, it’s estimated that 53,000 Florida resident Disney employees will be eligible to participate when the UCF partnership begins this fall.
The inclusion of UCF into Disney’s Aspire program marks another step forward for Disney’s Florida employees in recent years. In August of 2018, Disney vowed to Florida park-employees an across-the-board pay raise to $15 an hour by 2021 and a one-time $1,000 bonus. The plan, which was unveiled last year, came in wake of President Trump signing a bill which slashed the corporate tax rates.
Click here to learn more of Disney’s Aspire program and its opportunities in trade and English courses.



Former President Dale Whittaker said he was pressured to resign by a Florida legislator, an interview by the Orlando Sentinel reveals.
Whittaker told the Orlando Sentinel, that state Rep. Tom Leek pressured him to resign during a meeting with him shortly before stepping down. 
The meeting took place four days before Whittaker was set to testify in front of a Florida House committee chaired by Leek, according to an Orlando Sentinel article.
Records released by UCF indicate that UCF management wanted Whittaker to continue as president, judging by a statement from one of UCF’s vice presidents.
Michael Morsberger, vice president for advancement and CEO of the UCF Foundation, asked Whittaker in a text message if he would be willing to stay if his resignation was somehow not accepted. 
“Until they say ‘you’re fired’ or you say ‘I’m done,’ this circus is not over,” Morsberger wrote in the message. “Do you still want the job?!. I sure hope the answer is yes.”
Morsberger also indicated that he at least supported student “protests” in behalf of Whittaker.
“If the protests and anger that has already begun on campus continues, I would expect a huge rally outside the BOT special meeting,” Morsberger wrote. “This could change votes. Media coverage of students chanting your name would get press attention nationally. Politicians will have no choice but to take note.”
Whittaker explained his conversation with Leek during their meeting in February.
Whittaker said when he told Leek that he was committed to fixing UCF’s problems and wanted to mend fences with the Legislature, Leek said “‘I don’t see a future of UCF with you in it,’” according to the Sentinel article. 
Leek denied making this statement.
Whittaker continued about Leek’s response.
 “And then he said, ‘I care about you and your future,’” Whittaker told the Orlando Sentinel. “‘We can find a glide path for you to gracefully exit, but you have to commit to resigning now.’”
Whittaker said he was surprised by Leek’s statement and thought the “threat” was inappropriate, according to the Sentinel article. 
Leek, however, said that any suggestion that Whittaker was forced or pressured to resign would be a “mischaracterization,” according to the Sentinel article. 
“The man’s president of a university,” Leek said – according to the Sentinel article. “If he can’t handle sitting in the office with the representative from Daytona Beach telling him it’s going to be a tough path forward he might be overmatched by the job.”
Whittaker’s take on what happened seems to explain what he told Board of Trustees members in a letter; that he hoped his departure would end “punitive measures” from Florida lawmakers.
Whittaker also alluded to that in his resignation letter. 
“My reason for doing this is so the relationship between UCF and the Legislature can be renewed,” Whittaker said.
Whittaker now lives in a cabin on Madeline Island, in northern Wisconsin, and is looking forward to becoming president at another university, according to the Orlando Sentinel article.



