 A UCF student accused of killing a motorist while driving under the influence laughed about the incident later at the hospital, according to the Florida Highway Patrol. 
Dean Kornblum, 22, was traveling on University Boulevard and Bibb Road when his gray 2019 Audi struck the rear of a black 2016 Nissan SUV driving in the same direction, according to FHP. The SUV overturned, killing the driver. 
The driver of the SUV, 36-year-old Angel Dominguez, of Orlando, was pronounced dead at the scene, according to FHP.
Kornblum, of Boca Raton, was transported to ORMC for minor injuries and was overheard telling someone on the phone that the “he did not need to sober up because this situation was a joke,” the affidavit states.  
According to the report, Kornblum admitted to having consumed alcohol earlier in the day but told troopers if anything was found in his system, it was because the hospital staff put it there.
Troopers said they observed the 22-year-old with glossy, bloodshot eyes and that he smelled of alcohol. The arrest affidavit states Kornblum laughed loudly and obnoxiously when the hospital staff spoke to him.  
Kornblum said he was “targeted by Gotham’s finest” and when he refused to give consent for his blood to be drawn, he said “that sounds like a problem for the Orlando Police Department,” the arrest report reads.
Kornblum is facing a felony charge of DUI manslaughter and could face more charges pending the outcome of the investigation, according to the arrest report.  
He bonded out of the Orange County Jail on $10,000 bail Friday. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



With each passing year, UCF’s signature Homecoming Week tradition, Spirit Splash, gets bigger and bigger, and Spirit Splash 2019 was no exception.
During this time-honored tradition, it is not uncommon to spot UCF students wandering around the Reflecting Pond wearing bathing suits and Spirit Splash shirts — if they were so lucky to snatch one up, that is.
Students began arriving at UCF’s Reflecting Pond bright and early Friday morning in hopes of getting this year’s Spirit Splash shirt and a spot on the grass. This was UCF’s 24th annual Spirit Splash, UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said in a Saturday email.
“This is such a great day,” said UCF Interim President Thad Seymour. “It’s the greatest tradition in any college around the country.”
Each year, themed rubber ducks are catapulted from the stage in front of UCF’s Millican Hall and into the hands of eagerly awaiting students.
This year’s Spirit Splash ducks were holding surfboards in three different color schemes: purple, blue, and purple with a green stripe.
Helena Rodriguez, junior hospitality management major and Spirit Splash director, said about 2,500 rubber ducks were ordered this year.
“The biggest priority is to actually order the ducks,” Rodriguez said. “Getting the designs approved and having the ducks ordered takes about a month.”
UCF football senior center Jordan Johnson was in attendance this year, along with many of his teammates, ahead of the Saturday Homecoming Game against the ECU Pirates. The team was a part of the crew throwing ducks into the crowd of students knee-deep in the Reflecting Pond.
“[Spirit Splash] was amazing,” Johnson said. “It was my final one … but this one was the most fun, definitely.”
The Friday before the Homecoming football game, the campus community traditionally comes together to charge the Reflecting Pond — with the UCF football, cheer and KnightMoves dance team on stage, along with the UCF Marching Knights band — as a pep rally before the football team plays at Spectrum Stadium the next day.
Rodriguez said she was told by many participants that it was the smoothest Spirit Splash they had attended at UCF so far.
“I was proud to see all of the students at the event,” she said. “It helped me to see that all of my hard work was worth it.”



Before the doors opened to Addition Financial Arena on Thursday, a long line snaked around the building as students were eager to watch DaniLeigh and 6lack live during Concert Knight.
The 2019 Homecoming Committee wasted no time getting the show started as they burst onto the stage with inviting smiles on their faces.
“What’s up, UCF? Are y’all ready to get this homecoming started?” members of the Homecoming Court shouted, in which the crowd replied to with loud cheers.
As the homecoming committee made their exit, DJ Tonee emerged from behind his booth and started to jump around the stage.  
DaniLeigh stepped onto the stage with an energetic presence.
She sang each song with what seemed like every ounce of energy she had in her — and with a smile on her face — ending the performance out of breath. The crowd loved her, screaming louder and louder every time she took to dancing across the stage, and they reciprocated her energy.  
“Thank you so much UCF, I love you all deeply,” DaniLeigh said before finishing her performance. “I can’t wait to see all of your pretty faces the next time I come to Orlando! Are y’all ready for 6lack?”  
After Leigh finished her performance, DJ Tonee returned to the stage, jumping and pumping his arms to “My Type” by City Girls. The fans were going crazy, chanting the song lyrics and bouncing as a single unit. The lights dimmed as Tonee made his way back to his booth.  
As the lights turned back on to illuminate 6lack’s face as he walked to the center of the stage, the fans in the front row could not contain their excitement. 
He stood at the mic stand and observed the crowd of faces peering back at him, as an “I love you!” rang out from the crowd. 6lack pointed in the direction it came from and said, “I love you more.” 
The melody from the song “Loaded Gun” echoed throughout the room, as the crowd recited every line word for word along with him. 
As an artist with a discography of mostly slower hits and R&B tracks, 6lack let his inner energy out during this performance. The Atlanta-born singer and rapper never stopped moving about the stage and was not afraid to interact with the crowd.  
He brought out the hidden side of himself as he allowed himself to grow more and more hype as the show went on. The fans also encouraged him each time he walked to the edge of the stage and danced, and he became more confident bringing out an ecstatic cheer each time.  
Up until that point, he had played every other song from his album “East Atlanta Love Letter,” as well as some other singles he featured on. 
After performing “Disconnect,” 6lack stood center stage and the crowd got quiet. 
As he put the mic back on the stand, he said, “I don’t know if y’all know this song, but it’s grammy nominated, and its featuring J. Cole.”
Everyone had their phones out to record, and as the beat slowly started to creep out from the speakers and the first lyrics came on, every single person sang along as one cohesive unit  
“Do better, who better? You better? Been around,” 6lack stopped singing his “Pretty Little Fears” song and looked out as the crowd at Addition Financial Arena was singing the rest of the lyrics. 
Finishing the song to roaring applause, 6lack stood in the center of the stage and thanked everyone for coming, that he truly loved Orlando and all the people at UCF, and he thanked the Homecoming Committee for organizing the event.



