This past weekend, the stage was set for the annual Mr. and Mrs. UCF Scholarship pageant. Twenty contestants in total, 6 men and 14 women, took on the task of following in the footsteps of 2018 Mr. UCF Braxton Watson and 2018 Ms. UCF Courtney Jones. 
On Friday evening, 6 men showcased their hard work and dedication that went into this event. Each of these students put out their best foot forward in every facet of the competition with hopes that they would be crowned Mr. UCF. 
As the competition came to close, one contestant began to stand out; contestant #6: Malachi Mullings. Mullings, a freshman, whose platform was “Pro-Create: Creative Expression” chose to use his talents to highlight the issues that a young black male faces in America on a daily basis. 
With confidence, swagger, and poise; it was clear to the judges that Mullings was the embodiment of the UCF Creed and consequently being the best contestant to become the 2019 Mr. UCF.
Following the crowning of Mr. UCF, all eyes were set on the Miss UCF pageant. This competition which was included 14 talented women, drew a crowd with the likes of Ms. Apoka and Ms. Pasco County. 
Among the contestants, one individual’s pageant reputation preceded her, contestant #3: Keyera Lyn. Lyn is a graduate student with numerous accolades; including the current Southern Region Miss Black and Gold. Lyn devastated the competition using her experience and pageant knowledge as a stepping stool to being crowned 2019 Miss UCF.
Mullings and Lyn made history this past weekend becoming the first African American pair to be crowned Mr. and Mrs. UCF together. 
Mullings made other marks on the record books by becoming the first African American freshman to be crowned. Following the crowning of Mr. and Mrs. UCF, the Homecoming King Darrius McFadden and Queen Alexus Williamson are joined by two more African American students as the ambassadors and representatives of the institutions. 
Each of these individuals are leaders within the community and their on campus organizations respectively. These four game changing students are tasked with creating a newer environment for students of all ethnicities and backgrounds to be welcomed.



Written by Shay Lewis:
Steve Spurrier back to the sidelines and leads Orlando Apollos to entertaining first win of the inaugural season dominating Legends 40-6.
“The guys played very well, they played with a lot of effort,” Spurrier said when discussing the execution of the win.
At the beginning, the defense seemed to be a bit disharmonious allowing the Legends to score their first points of the game. Garrett Gilbert states “a little rocky to start, but we kind of got things rolling as the game went on”.
The Atlanta Legends got on the boards scoring the first points in AAF history picking up 62 yards on the opening drive, but then the offense stagnated with only getting 63 yards in total over the next two quarters.
The game’s pace was something that everyone noticed early on, such as going right on offense after field goals. “Not much time to celebrate touchdowns; you have to get right back in the huddle”
Gilbert himself scored the first touchdown of his pro career, running the “39 reverse throwback” play pass thrown by Apollo’s wide receiver Jalin Marshall at the Legends 5 yard line. 
Gilbert completed 15 of 25 pass attempts for 227 yards and three touchdowns.
Linebacker Terence Garvin, a former NFL player had an outstanding game. Making history in the AAF with its first-ever pick-six. Later on in the game, he scored a touchdown off his second interception and ran it back for a total of 51 yards.
Apollo’s defensive end Ryan Davis Sr. also made history with the first sack of the league.
The defensive performance combined did a phenomenal job on holding the Legends to six points throughout the game.
Spurrier was pleased with the win and the crowd; the crowd was just over 20,000 for the opening night. He is predicting more fans come the next home game. “Hopefully in two weeks we will maybe have a little bit better weather forecast, and maybe get a few more out”.
Apollo’s start off the season 1 and 0 after last night’s win with the final score, Apollo’s, 40 Legends, 6.
The Orlando Apollo’s are set to play the San Antonio Commanders next week Feb. 17 game has been scheduled at 4 p.m. at the Alamodome.
Photo: Orlando Apollos



