Hurricane Dorian has left nothing but
destruction in its wake. Many across the state of Florida have begun donating
supplies toward the relief effort to help rebuild the islands. 
Among those who helped out is Juvanni Lafleur,
UCF senior health sciences major. He partnered with the UCF Recreation and
Wellness Center and organized a relief drive on Sunday, Sept. 22, in order to
collect supplies, clothing and food to donate toward the relief efforts for the
Bahamas. 
The “Relief Bahama” collection drive was
created by Lafleur to use his platform to give back and further push the
#BahamaStrong movement that was initiated by a few of his friends that are
Bahamian UCF students.
In just 9 days, Lafleur was able to organize
the relief drive at the RWC Courts where students and other patrons brought the
requested items. Lafleur, a rising DJ, conducted an on-air interview and was
able to bring out iHeart Radio’s 104.5 The Beat in support of the cause.
“Some of my closest friends are from the
Bahamas so I wanted to help them out in a big way,” Lafleur said. “My family is
from Haiti, another Caribbean nation that was struck by natural disaster, so I
understand that strength is in numbers.”
Lafleur is a graduating senior and plans to be
a physician’s assistant after attending physician’s assistant school. He is a
“brother” at the UCF chapter of Progressive Black Men Incorporated, a community
service-based organization, where he mentors two students including Malachi
Mullings, the current Mr. UCF.
Lafleur works part time as a pharmaceutical
technician. He also owns a limited liability corporation, Gryo Entertainment,
and a non-profit organization, Gryo & Friends. With Gryo Entertainment,
Lafleur provides entertainment for UCF students and Orlando residents
throughout a multitude of events and parties. Gryo & Friends, on the other
hand, is an organization that is designed for the purpose of serving the
community.
“Gryo & Friends and Gryo Entertainment are
the manifestation of two years of hard work, patience and progression,” said Stanley
Alexis, a brother of Progressive Black Men, Incorporated.
Lafleur sites his family, his brothers in
Progressive Black Men Incorporated and his personal mantra of “be great, and if
you can’t be great be great at it” as his motivation. His saying serves as a
reminder to be the best version of himself in everything he does.



