After suffering their first regular-season loss since 2016, the UCF Knights faced a program defining decision: concede their season to the critics and fold an otherwise impeccable season, or steady the ship and continue forward as planned.
They chose the latter.
Put simply: the Knights bludgeoned the Huskies, leaving them scoreless at halftime before ending the night with a final score of 56 to 21 — the second most points UCF has scored this season.
The landslide affair was a village effort speared by starting quarterback Dillon Gabriel and back-up quarterback Darriel Mack.
Under Gabriel’s command, five of UCF’s first seven drives resulted in a touchdown including a high-flying 73-yard touchdown pass to junior receiver Gabriel Davis.
Before handing over the keys to Mack at the half, Gabriel amassed 281 yards on 11-of-16 passing and 3 touchdowns.
The Knights’ offense remained efficient with backup quarterback Darriel Mack under center. Early in the third quarter, Mack connected with Marlon Williams for a 21 yard touchdown pass. 
Mack finished 7-of-9 for 74 yards and a touchdown — his first this season and fourth career.
On the ground for UCF, Adrian Killins blistered the UConn defense late in the first for a 75-yard touchdown. He ended his night as the rush leader with 77 yards. 
In total, UCF boasted 607 yards of total offense and limited UConn to 426 yards.
On the opposite side of the football, UCF’s defense delivered a standout performance, forcing multiple turnovers for the first time this season. 
UCF Safety Antwan Collier tallied his third career interception during UConn’s first offensive drive and defensive end Kalia Davis earned his first sack, forced fumble, and fumble recovery in a single play. 
All together, the Knights’ defense forced 4 turnovers, the most since the October 2018 matchup against ECU.
The Knights are now holding a 4-1 record and are 1-0 in AAC play while the Huskies fall to 1-3 and 0-1 in conference. 
UCF will hit the road this week in a highly anticipated matchup against the Cincinnati Bearcats at 8 p.m. on Friday.




 
















 



No. 22 UCF returns to Spectrum Stadium Saturday to open its American Athletic Conference schedule against the UConn Huskies, and UCF head coach Josh Heupel said the team is excited to be back in the Bounce House.
After facing their first loss since 2016 – and their 25-game regular-season winning streak snapped – Heupel said one loss won’t change the Knights’ competitive spirit.
UCF (3-1) and UConn (1-2) have matched up six times in the past, with the Knights defeating the Huskies the last three consecutive years and leading the series 4-2. UCF traveled to Connecticut last season, where injured quarterback McKenzie Milton threw 24-for-32 on 346 yards and five touchdowns to lead the Knights to a 56-17 victory over the Huskies.
Heupel said true freshman Dillon Gabriel will be the starting quarterback to open conference play for the Knights. This is the first time the second-year coach named the starting quarterback before the first snap this season.
Gabriel has thrown 63-for-104 on 1,057 yards and is responsible for 11 touchdowns and two interceptions this season. The true freshman has played in all four games, receiving the first snap under center in three.
UConn head coach Randy Edsall said in Tuesday’s pregame press conference true freshman Jack Zergiotis will be the team’s starting quarterback in the conference opener. The UConn freshman has started in two games for the Huskies, throwing 35-for-59 on 365 yards and three interceptions.
“You got to be careful because you don’t want to give the kid too much, too soon,” Edsall said in regard to the true freshman quarterback. “You don’t want to overload him to make it really hard on him with all the ¬with all the other things he has to do on the football field.”
Ending last season 1-11 in conference play and picked to finish last in the East division AAC preseason polls, the Huskies head coach said coming up with a plan to defeat the Knights is won’t be easy.
Heupel said the team the Knights defeated during the 2018 season isn’t the same team they will face Saturday.
“Big, physical on both sides of the line of the scrimmage. Slightly different in their scheme, a little bit defensively, from a year ago – a new defensive coordinator,” Heupel said. “At the end of day, I think in all three phases, our focus every single week is always about us and our preparation. Anticipating and studying our opponent, but also being ready to adjust during the course of play.”
Heupel said in Thursday’s pregame press conference the team has been excited to get back on the field following the loss in Pittsburgh and looking ahead at this conference game like it’s a new season.
“Everything you want is in front of you and it starts Week 1, right here,” Heupel said. “Conference play at home – it’s time to line up and play ball.”
Heupel said the team is excited to get back on the field and ready to play ball in the electric atmosphere – the Knights face the Huskies at Spectrum Stadium at 7 p.m.



With a handful of future opponents and home-and-home series announced Tuesday, UCF’s commitment to its organization and strength of schedule is clear. 
The Boise State Broncos – a Mountain West Conference team – will face the Knights at Spectrum Stadium during the first week of the 2021 season, UCF Athletics announced Tuesday. It will be the first time the two teams meet on the field.  
The Knights will travel to Boise State during the 2023 season to matchup against the Broncos in Idaho, according to the news release.
“We are excited to have this series on the schedule and thrilled to be able to bring our fans another marquee game on The Blue,” Boise State Director of Athletics Curt Apsey said in a press release. “I believe this is a match-up that college football fans throughout the country want to see, and one that our student-athletes will be excited to play.”
Boise State was scheduled to play a home-and-home against the Rice Owls – first in Houston in 2021 and at home 2023 – but moved the games to accommodate the series with UCF to the 2025 season and the 2029 season, respectively, according to a Boise State Athletics press release. 
Boise State – which opened its season at home with a 36-31 win over Florida State, and is 4-0 overall – landed the No. 16 spot in The AP Top 25 Poll and No. 15 in the Amway Coaches Poll released Sunday. 
Unlike Boise State, the BYU Cougars and the UCF Knights have met twice before. In 2011, the Knights traveled to Provo, Utah, where BYU defeated UCF 24-17. When the Cougars came to Orlando in 2014 to finish off the series, the Knights defeated the Cougars 31-24 in overtime. 
BYU, which has competed as an independent since 2011, has six bowl victories and 81 combined victories over a decade, according to the release. UCF will host BYU to kick off the home-and-home series between the two schools in November 2023, with the second game set in Utah for 2024. 
“BYU and Boise State represent big-time strength-of-schedule games for our program based on their records and top-25 rankings in recent years,” UCF Director of Athletics Danny White said in the release. “We are committed to continue to schedule attractive, meaningful football games both for our fans and student-athletes. BYU and Boise State are both power programs, and we’re proud to play them.” 
Looking at the first few weeks of the 2020 season, UCF will face UNC Chapel Hill – currently listed as “TBD/Week 1” – at home, followed by FIU on Sept. 12 at home, then Georgia Tech on Sept. 19 in Atlanta, according to the release. 
The start of the 2021 season has Boise State at home, with the Knights on the road facing Louisville on Sept. 18 in Louisville, Kentucky, the release reads. 
By the 2022 season, the Knights will have met their matches at least once. UCF will face FIU in Miami on Sept. 1, followed by Louisville at home on Sept. 10 and Georgia Tech at home on Sept. 24. 
In 2023, UCF will face Boise State in Idaho on Sept. 9, and BYU at home on Nov. 11. 
In 2025, UNC Chapel Hill is set to return to the Bounce House on Sept. 20, and in 2027, the Knights will hit the road to take on UNC in Chapel Hill on Sept. 11. 



