University of Central Florida alumni McKinnley Workman and Sebastien Benoit, co-founders of Lakay Vet, narrowly escaped an assassination attempt by armed bandits in Haiti over the weekend, fellow classmate Mathew Coalson shared with Knight News.
The engineers arrived at the headquarters of the biogas company at 1 p.m. only to be met by a gang of 20-30 bandits who had been terrorizing the site and local farmers for approximately one week, according to the company. The attackers had specific orders to kill the pair and seize the site, Lakay Vet says.
The alumni quickly shouted ties to the United States Embassy as a deterrent that appeared to initially work in their favor, as the gang members waved handguns.
The gang threw rocks and punches instead, knocking unconscious Benoit while wresting Workman and stealing personal property. Repeated close-quartered combat took place before Workman dragged Benoit to safety with the help of local farmers who ran from their homes to the pair, Coalson said.
“Benoit and Workman sustained serious cuts, bruises, severe head, and limb trauma and even a large human bite wound. After the attack, the pair managed to drive themselves in the heavily damaged truck first to the Croix-des-Bouquets courthouse, then after hours of waiting, were able to get back on-site with the police to recover some company assets and ensure the safety of the community. After dark, they finally made it to the hospital where their injuries were treated,” Lakay Vet said in the release.
The property is still under the control of the gang. Locals who came to the aid of Workman and Benoit are “afraid to return to their farmland or to Lakay Vet,” the company said.

Lakay Vet supported Haitian President Jovenel Moise and his encouragement of foreign and local investment, contrasting the xenophobic attitude of the bandits that planned the attack in the release. The biofuels company refused to comply with bribes and demands made by the attackers.
Read the full statement.
“They left computer engineering jobs in Silicon Valley, with all the comforts that entail, to start something sustaining in Haiti, where Sebastian is from,” Coalson said on Facebook.
“In Haiti, they have paid their employees a living wage. They offered classes to their employees aimed as much at improving the employee’s lives as improving their business model. Now their success has enticed leaches, willing to beat them dry.”
 



The Florida House of Representatives will summon UCF President Dale Whittaker, among others, to testify as part of an investigation into the decision to spend $38 million on Trevor Colbourn Hall.
Former President John C. Hitt, former Board of Trustees Chairman Marcos Marchena, and former Chief Financial Officer Bill Merck are expected to testify during depositions at a later House committee meeting. The Public Integrity & Ethics Committee launched an investigation into how UCF could have spent tens of millions of dollars for new construction.

Chancellor of the State University System Marshall Criser presented in front of the Ethics Committee Wednesday afternoon and summarized the private investigation launched by UCF and the conclusions of the report.
Criser claimed the four individuals knew of the E&G funds being used and the ramifications for their use, according to the presentation, contradicting the narrative posed by the Bryan Cave law firm which effectively cleared President Whittaker of wrongdoing.
Florida House Public Integrity & Ethics Committee chair Rep. Tom Leek said UCF’s Board of Trustees sometimes “fails to appreciate the gravity of the situation they’re in.” Leek contrasted the seriousness of the Board of Governors in investigating the matter with the lack of attention shown by the Board of Trustees.
#BREAKING: After threats of more litigation, UCF finally releases records showing UCF’s General Counsel reviewed and discussed drafts of The Burby Report with the outside Bryan Cave attorney—hired for his outside independence—before the public. #ColbournHallControversy #sayfie pic.twitter.com/k9PwfpMbXI
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) January 31, 2019

“There was a report this week that I found particularly troubling: that the University of Central Florida General Counsel received advanced copies of the report and had the opportunity to provide substantive input on what the report would look like and say on the way before it was published,” Leek said, referring to records uncovered by Knight News.
Chancellor Criser claimed to be “surprised that the report would be shared with anyone other than Beverly Sea – who was the Trustee’s point person in this entire process – our Inspector General, and with the Chair of our audit committee.”
Statement form UCF President: “Today, the Florida House Public Integrity and Ethics Committee voted to subpoena me and several other former and current @UCF employees. I will tell the truth as I have throughout this process and continue instructing our staff to do the same. 1/2”
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) February 6, 2019

DW: “What happened was wrong. The people who did this and concealed their actions are no longer with UCF. We have taken multiple and aggressive steps to ensure this doesn’t happen again, and we are committed to regaining the trust of the Board of Governors and Florida House. 2/2”
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) February 6, 2019

This is a developing story. Stay tuned with Knight News for more on the investigation.



Wife of UCF director Michael Redlick accused of stabbing him to death in their home, is being held without bail after a hearing Thursday, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
Danielle Redlick, 45, was charged with second-degree murder and tampering with physical evidence, Orange County Court records show.
According to an arrest affidavit, Danielle Redlick reportedly first told police her husband may have had a heart attack, then said that he stabbed himself after a fight with her the night before. 
“We had an altercation and he stabbed himself, and I ran and hid in the bathroom and when I came out I was trying to help him and saw he was lying in blood, and then I tried to help him and I couldn’t,” Danielle Redlick told the 911 dispatcher, the affidavit stated.
Some blood stains on the floor of the home had circular marks and the house smelled like bleach, as if someone had tried to clean up the scene, Winter Park Sgt. Lisa Supat wrote.
Danielle Redlick said she used towels to clean some of the blood after tripping on it while trying to find the phone, the affidavit stated. 
Danielle Redlick stated she got exhausted and fell asleep next to her husband after trying unsuccessfully to revive him. She did not call 911 until 11 hours after the fight began, according to the affidavit.
According to the affidavit Danielle Redlick reviewed messages on a dating app two hours before calling 911.
Medical examiner Dr. Sara Zydowicz ruled Michael Redlick’s death a homicide and said his stab wound did not look self-inflicted. She also noted that some of his injuries appeared to be defensive, according to the affidavit.
Michael Redlick was honored by UCF Alumni at a Church service arranged by his wife, according to a UCF press release.
“The students and alumni talked about his encouraging them, his sense of humor, straightforwardness, the fact that he pushed them to try harder,” said Richard Lapchick, director DeVos Sport Business Management and a friend and colleague of Michael Redlick.
Michael Redlick joined UCF in 2013 and served as director of external affairs and partnership relations for the DeVos Sport Business Management Program, according to UCF.
Lapchick mentioned how much Michael Redlick loved his children.
“I talked to Mike every day we were in the office together and, without exaggeration, most of the conversation was about [his children] Jadyn and Sawyer,” Lapchick said in the press release.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.



