
UCF takes steps to ensure students are ready for Hurricane Dorian as the forecast changes. The National Hurricane Center’s 11 p.m. Tuesday advisory takes Florida out of the “cone of uncertainty,” meaning landfall is not expected.
The university suspended all activities at all campuses through Thursday, including online courses, and any assignments due during that time will be delayed accordingly. The campus may extend this closure depending on the situation, according to UCF’s hurricane announcement. 
“UCF will only reopen when it is safe to do so, and decisions also will consider other factors, such as damage and power loss throughout the region,” UCF Spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said in an email. 
 UCF will have shuttles ready to take students from their on-campus housing to one of the designated ride out locations, between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. Tuesday, when they are required to move there. Students living in UCF’s affiliated housing communities — Knights Circle, the Pointe at Central and NorthView — will have the option to go to the ride out location if they wish, according to UCF.
For those planning to evacuate, Gov. Ron DeSantis suspended most tolls in the Central Florida area. Uber and Lyft are offering free rides to and from designated shelters using the promotional code DorianRelief.  
Students will be able to ride out the storm as follows:
Students riding out the storm are to park in Garage A, their vehicles will not be allowed to leave the garage until a campus “all clear” is given, according to the UCF statement. Students living in on-campus housing will be allowed to leave their vehicles according to their permit. 
Garage I will be available for other students, faculty and staff with valid UCF parking permits to keep their vehicles throughout the storm. They can bring their vehicles, which will not be allowed to leave until the campus reopens, starting Friday at 5 p.m. through noon Sunday.
All other vehicles are not allowed to park at UCF and will be towed away. For more information visit UCF’s FAQ page.
Make sure you’re signed up for campus alerts and are following safety instructions.
Check back for updates.






