The man arrested in connection to the hit-and-run death of a 21-year-old UCF student in June is accused of tampering with his court-ordered alcohol monitor, according to court records recently filed by prosecutors. 
Yousuf Hasan, 25, was arrested and charged with DUI manslaughter, vehicular homicide, and crash involving death or personal injuries after the vehicle he is accused of driving left the road and traveled onto the grassy median, hitting and later killing UCF senior London Harrell. 
Hasan posted $75,000 bond and was released on the conditions he would surrender his passport, would have no contact with the victim’s family, would not consume alcohol and agreed to wear a SCRAM monitor — an alcohol monitoring device worn around the ankle that detects the presence of alcohol in an individual’s sweat.
Hasan’s device issued an alert Monday between 8:30 a.m. and 6:05 p.m., which prompted prosecutors to file a motion Tuesday to revoke Hasan’s bond for failing to abide by the conditions of his pretrial release, according to court documents. 
Court documents offer no details on the reported tampering and no hearing date has been set at this time.
According to FHP troopers, Harrell was struck by Hasan’s black four-door Acura while walking with two other women on a grass shoulder on Napiers Circle and Pasteur Drive near UCF, just minutes before 1 a.m. on June 22. 
Hasan is accused of two DUI hit-and-runs in a single night. Before striking Harrell, he is accused of hitting a vehicle on Mandel Drive and Alafaya Trail, where part of his bumper was left on-scene. 
Hasan fled both scenes but was later found by Orange County Sheriff’s Office deputies near his vehicle in the parking lot of Collegiate Village Inn — a student housing complex on University Boulevard less than a mile from UCF’s main entrance.
Blood and hair were found on the windshield of Hasan’s vehicle, along with damage consistent with both crashes, according to court documents. 
In the affidavit for his arrest, Hasan is described by troopers as having difficulty standing upright, slurred speech and a sway.
Hasan underwent a field sobriety test by troopers and failed, but later tested negative for alcohol in his breath samples at the Orange County Jail, according to the arrest affidavit.
Hasan is suspected of being under the influence of drugs at the time of the accident, according to Florida Highway Patrol. A blood sample was sent to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement for evaluation. 
Harrell, a sister of UCF’s Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority, was hospitalized for several days before succumbing to her injuries. A candlelight ceremony was held in her memory at UCF’s Reflecting Pond hours before her family announced her passing.
Private attorney Zachary Stoumbos and Dennis Brantley, Harrell’s stepfather, spoke before the judge to request maximum, or deny, bond for Hasan at his first appearance in court following Harrell’s death.
Stoumbos cited Hasan’s criminal history — which includes misdemeanor theft, possession of drug paraphernalia, possession of cannabis less than 20 grams, and felony possession of cannabis with intent to distribute — and voiced concerns that Hasan may pose a flight risk.
According to an affidavit and first appearance information sheet, Hasan was born in Bangladesh and is not a United States citizen. He is also a member of the Nine Trey Gangster Bloods street gang, according to court filings. 
The judge, who set bail at $25,000 per charge, ordered Hasan to abide by the terms of his pretrial release, which also said he must remain within Orange County at all times and is forbidden from driving anything with a motor. 
Hasan violated the terms of his pretrial release by tampering with the SCRAM monitor, but no known hearing date is set at this time. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 




