UCF’s Kappa Sigma fraternity has been placed on interim suspension following an anonymous tip by one of its members to the anti-hazing hotline for hazing, alcohol and drug use by its members.
UCF spokesman Mark Schlueb said in a Friday email the university received a report through the anti-hazing email account on Nov. 18 at 6:45 p.m.
“I am sending this email to express my concerns for the Kappa Sigma fraternity, as a member, the fraternity has changed drastically for the worse especially in terms of hazing,” said the Kappa Sigma member, who closed his email stating he was keeping his identity secret in fear of backlash from his fraternity.
Kappa Sigma is facing charges of drug related misconduct, and hazing that could adversely affect the mental or physical health or dignity of an individual were reported to have taken place at the on-campus house, according to the suspension letter sent to the fraternity.
“Within the house there are various types of illegal drugs with the two most used being marijuana and cocaine, there are brothers who live in the house with large amounts of illegal drugs who openly sell drugs to pledges and other brothers within the fraternity, pledges are sometimes forced to sell to brothers their prescribed drugs like adderall among other things,” the report made by the unnamed member reads.
The individual who reported the tip wrote the pledges are forced to smoke marijuana and drink entire bottles of alcohol, according to the incident report. 
The individual also said in the email that pledges are forced to act as designated drivers, forced to clean both on-campus and off-campus houses of brothers and forced to walk around with pet fish, no matter where they go.
“This alleged behavior violates the university’s code of conduct and is contrary to our values,” Schlueb said in the email. “While these allegations are investigated, the chapter has been placed on organizational suspension and is prohibited from participating in all activities.”
Kappa Sigma chapter’s president, who was reached by phone Friday, would not comment on the situation. He said he is directing all media and questions to the fraternity’s national spokesperson.
Kappa Sigma Executive Director Mitchell Wilson, who serves as the spokesman for the fraternity’s national headquarters, did not respond to messages left through voicemail Friday by the time the article was updated Monday.
“As a values-based men’s fraternity, Kappa Sigma strictly forbids hazing and fosters meaningful college experiences by offering progressive membership development and pledge education,” the Kappa Sigma website reads. 
A hearing to review the actions is scheduled for Dec. 5, according to the incident report.
UCF does not condone hazing in any form and will investigate all allegations to the fullest extent possible, according to the Anti-Hazing at UCF website. 
The number of reported hazing incidents at UCF from 2012 to 2016 have not followed a steady trend, according to incident reports — seven reports were made during 2012-2013, four reports made during 2013-2014, nine made during 2014-2015 and five made during 2015-2016.
Although all hazing-related reports listed the investigated organizations as “fraternities, sororities,” the number of hazing-related sanctions decreased during the same five year period. 
Of the hazing reports 2012-2013, seven were investigated and four organizations were sanctioned, according to incident reports. In 2013-2014, four hazing reports were investigated and one was sanctioned. Nine were investigated with one organization sanctioned in 2014-2015 and five were investigated with one organization sanctioned in 2015-2016.
This is a developing story that has been updated with new information. Check back for more updates. 



