The John C. Hitt Library 21st-Century expansion project phase one is estimated to open in early 2020, the University of Central Florida said.
in 2018, UCF completed construction of its four-story Automated Retrieval Center (ARC) which can accommodate 1.25 million print volumes and will house 300,000 of the most used and current books to allow for easier access for students throughout the year. Wait times for these books have been approximated to be between 5-10 minutes from the ARC to the circulation desk.
The sleek second entrance to the library, closer to the Student Union and across from the John T. Washington Center, features a glass facade and set of stairs similar to the steps of the Recreation and Wellness Center.

“This phase is currently under construction and work on the steel structure of the ‘connector’ building is well underway,” a UCF spokesperson said. “[I]t will connect the library building with the Automated Retrieval Center. This phase includes new library instruction classrooms, a multipurpose room, a new space for Special Collections, and a wonderful reading room at the top of the Automated Retrieval Center, as well as the new entrance.”
UCF said books continue to be loaded into the Automated Retrieval Center and if a book cannot be found on the shelf to place a request for the item in the UCF Catalog.
A comprehensive list of the additions and renovations offered by the 21st Century Library has been assembled by the UCF News & Information Office:
Feb. 2015
21st Century Library Project to Begin in 2016

Aug 2016
UCF Begins Construction on Phase One John Hitt Library Expansion

 



Don’t miss the chance to see the first total lunar eclipse of 2019 through a telescope at UCF, the next one isn’t coming for another three years. 
Telescopes will be set up at Memory Mall on Sunday from 11 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday, for viewing the total lunar eclipse, according to a UCF press release. The event which is hosted by the observatory, library and student-run Astronomy Society, is free and open to the public, according to the press release. 
The last time there was a total lunar eclipse visible from UCF, in 2015, it was under cloud cover, said Yan Fernandez, a physics professor and director of UCF’s Robinson Observatory, in an email.
The eclipse will begin at 11:30 p.m. Sunday and reach totality by 11:45 p.m., which is expected to last until 12:45 a.m. Monday, according to the press release.
This time the entire eclipse is expected to be visible from our area. The weather is expected to be cloudy early but clear by the night to a chilly 39 degrees, according to the Weather Channel.
One of the telescopes will be set up with a camera feed projected onto a screen, allowing experts to share specific features of the moon with the public, according to the press release.
A pair of events will take place in the John C. Hitt Library on Thursday, to help people understand more about the eclipse.  
Several names were used to refer to the state of the moon for this eclipse. It’s considered a “super moon” because it’s at its closest to Earth, a “blood moon” and a “wolf moon” by the Farmers Almanac, Fernandez said. 
“Perhaps ‘blood moon’ is acceptable, since that does actually derive from the fact that the Moon will look orange/red,” Fernandez said.
Check out the Robinson Observatory website for more info about this and other events they’re hosting throughout the semester.



