The UCF Student Government Senate Executive Committee meeting got a little spicier than usual on Thursday, Sept. 19. 
Senators said the executive branch denied them the
opportunity to approve the final version of the new SG logo.
The executive branch of the Student Government, formerly known as Student Government Association, recently updated the organization’s logo as part of a rebrand designed to give them a fresh, new look. 
“[Student body President Kyler] Gray and [Vice President Madeline] Mills chose to rebrand Student government because they saw a need for change,” a Sept. 16 press release reads. “They spoke with many students, heard their concerns, and are working to push transparency and partnership in everything they do.”
However, senators were only able to approve a draft of the logo and voiced grievances. 
“Nobody addressed these things with me directly, which concerns me,” said Daniel Robles, the SG director of communications. “On behalf of exec, I apologize for how this rebrand was launched.”
The executive branch said there would be a mixture of new
and old SG logos on campus, but they eventually want a unified logo.
Logan Mahan, the vice chair of the Legislative, Judicial,
and Rules committee, said that there had been a lot of negative feedback about
the logo. 
Cami DiGiacomo, the vice chair of the student body
advocacy committee, discussed old posters and printed communications that
already had the old SG logo and asked whether there was a dollar amount for
what the rebrand would cost them. Her question was not directly answered;
rather, she was told that the rebrand would be a “slow release” and that it
would not be forced on anyone.
Robles said that the executive presented a version of the
logo during senate retreat that they thought would be published by the
university. The university then demanded specific brand standards, and he said
they had to make sure they were keeping good ties with university
administration.
Fritz Farrow, the chair of the Student Body Advocacy
committee, asked why the executive did not come to the senate executive
committee with the new rebrand that the university approved before publicizing
it.
Robles said the communication between the two groups
probably could have been handled better.
The executive wanted the rebrand before SG relocates to the
third floor in the Student Union, possibly this spring.
Rachel Friant, the Governmental Affairs and Policy
Committee chair, continued questioning Robles.
“If we’re encouraged to give feedback, why are we being
reprimanded when we’re speaking publicly about it?” Friant said. 
During the senate meeting later that night, Robles addressed the senate’s concerns. 
He said that the executive branch had its own struggles dealing with the logo and that they had tried their best to keep everyone in the loop. 
In order to remedy some failed understandings between the senate and the executive, he said he wants to create a cross-branch communications committee that will aid internal communications. 
This article has been updated with new information.



After a week-long series of meetings and planning, UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Danny White said UCF Athletics will be making changes for the students attending the home football game Saturday against the UConn Huskies, according to a news release. 
“The enthusiasm and excitement generated by our students are such a huge part of the overall game day at Spectrum Stadium and it made perfect sense for us to make their experience here with our football program as great as it can be every Saturday,” White said in the release.  
White said the administrative staff spent last week looking at options and meeting with UCF’s Student Government Association leaders. “We believe these measures will significantly improve what our students experience on Saturday night,” he said in the release.
In the release, White said these are the changes students can expect to see on Saturday:
SGA President Kyler Gray said in the release that SGA partnered with UCF Athletics to provide a better game day experience for UCF students and to ensure that Knights fans are able to enter the stadium more efficiently and to enhance gameday attendance. 
“UCF Athletics has been a great partner in ensuring a safe, vibrant and community-oriented game day culture for our students,” Gray said in they release. “As always, Student Government will continue to be the voice of the student body and an adamant supporter for our premier football program. Go Knights! Charge On!”
At the last home game on Sept. 14 against the Stanford Cardinal, UCF Athletics announced the “student queue” in its game day timeline. The student queue, which opened three hours ahead of kickoff, was put into place to help create organization and efficiency but was not successful its first time around. 
Got you! pic.twitter.com/oMjxKIfEH8
White took to Twitter to show his appreciation to the students who lined up three hours before kickoff before the last home game, and to apologize to the students who lined up for the game just wait in the sun. 
We will work on a better experience for the best student section in America! Sorry that the heat was a problem yesterday. Really appreciate the student support, & that y’all start lining up over 3 hours before kickoff. We can (and will) do better for y’all! More details to come. https://t.co/iBzEKIZOc5
Students are urged to claim a student pass and have it on their phone before the game, to leave all bags at home and to have a valid UCF ID to keep the lines moving as quickly as possible, the release states. 
The UCF Knights will face the UConn Huskies Saturday at Spectrum Stadium at 7 p.m.



