Sarah Swiersz, senior interdisciplinary studies major and director of SGA’s innovation council, was working on a grant proposal in May to secure funding for a system to compost food waste at UCF. But she scrapped the plan when an idea struck while visiting her friend at the University of Southern Florida. On her visit, she learned USF had an anaerobic digester, a system that converts food to either gas or fertilizer.
She soon devised a new plan with Mohsina Mahmood, a sophomore mechanical engineering major and member of SGA’s innovation council, to introduce anaerobic digestion to UCF, and was awarded $10,000 by the VOLO foundation, who provides funding for sustainability projects.
“We hate food waste,” Swierz said. “We hate how wasteful this is, and we want to do something about it.”
The 12-person innovation council is working with the City of Orlando, who contracted with Harvest Power, for implementing a program with the Volo Vista grant, which is a private family foundation. 
Harvest Power is an anaerobic digestion facility that services Central Florida. It takes food waste and turns it into energy through a bio-diesel generator.
“Anaerobic digestion is more beneficial then composting because it provides more than just nutrients but also creates energy for multiple uses,”  Mahmood said. 
Swiersz and  Mahmood said their first step is inspiring a “culture shift” at UCF. The shift, according to Swiersz, is to change the mentality of the student body and faculty through education. 
The two connected with the City of Orlando’s Jady Chen, who is an environmental study major and a food waste associate for Greenworks sustainability office, for insight on the successful implementation of their food waste program for five years.
 Chen said the digester has bacteria that breaks food down into a liquid,  then the methane gas that is released is harnessed through a biodiesel generator and is used to generate electricity.
Swiersz and  Mahmood sought guidance from an environmental professor, Debra Reinhart, who eventually became the project mentor to help in the anaerobic digester project proposal. 
Reinhart said UCF’s food waste is taken by Waste Management and is landfilled. She said because there aren’t regulations requiring gas methane collection from decomposing food waste, none of it is collected and in turn pollutes the environment.
Students and faculty can drive their food to one of the sustainability office food-drop off locations. The city has a public food drop off where residents can bring their waste. The sites operated by City of Orlando are Lake Nona, Paramore, or the Audubon Farmer’s Market.
Brittany McPeak, City of Orlando sustainability project coordinator, said people have grown out of touch with what the food process demands, and that the process has the most significant environmental ramifications.
“You spend energy to grow food, energy to harvest, energy to transport
it, energy to store it, and then energy to cook it,” McPeak said. “And now
we’re going to throw it away.”
About 25-30% of all food globally that is produced is wasted, which makes up 8-10% of human-caused carbon emissions according to (IPCC 2019), an intergovernmental panel that provides reports on climate change.
Reinhart said it would be best to first create a contract with Harvest Power, and utilize their facility as the UCF campuses get acclimated to using a food waste program. Then begin the process of anaerobic digestion to campus that is scaled to fit the demand. She said it would be appropriate to offer it to the community as well. 
McPeak said UCF also could create a contract with Harvest Power independently, as the City of Orlando did.
The concern this fall, Swiersz said, was connecting with all the different facilities on campus. Then gradually the student body on the importance of separating food waste from other types of waste because of the issues contamination can pose for contracting facilities or bringing the digester to campus. 
The final plans in implementing accessibility of food waste bins to the
large student body haven’t been decided yet.
McPeak has reached out to UCF’s downtown campus as it’s within the city
limits about implementing the food waste program offered by the city, but due
to construction, conversations have been halted. 
Orlando’s sustainability office’s food waste program that launched in 2015 was based on a promotional campaign to increase awareness on the positive or negative impact of where people put their leftovers, said Chris Castro, a UCF alumnus, and director of sustainability at the City of Orlando. 
In addition to the public’s awareness of the impact of landfills, McPeak
said there needs to be more recycling infrastructure in terms of more
facilities and higher capacities. 
Of all of Orlando’s garbage, 30-40 percent is food McPeak said. The city’s current goals are to make compost locations more accessible. 
Castro said his goal in the next five to 10 years is to offer a curbside
food waste collection program. The long-term goal Castro said, is eventually
diverting all of Orlando’s food waste from a landfill.
“In the long-term vision is for us to achieve our goal of zero
waste in landfills by 2040,” Castro said. “The goal that we set out
for is that all products that we’re consuming end up being recycled or
refurbished.”
Castro said the most efficient way to implement a campus program would be to start with UCF’s dining services in a controlled manner. Castro suggested the restaurant cooks should begin the program and then UCF students and faculty. 
Anaerobic digestion has not yet been widely adopted in the South Eastern
U.S., Orlando is the only city in the South East that has an anaerobic
digester. 
The city of Orlando charges $140 for twice per week pickup for their five food waste bins at Valencia College’s West Campus.
Castro said a successful program requires the support of faculty,
transportation staff, the food service provider, and on-campus student
organizations.
“We have to redefine the word garbage,” Castro said. “Garbage is a bunch of commodities. They’re a bunch of resources that we had turned into a product.”
Correction: A previous version of this article had Mohsina Mahmood’s last name spelled incorrectly. It has been updated to reflect the correct spelling of her name.



Students who regularly take the Rosen shuttle complain that it is always late, especially at the 5:15 p.m. pickup time at the UCF main campus, and breaks down at least twice per semester.
On Nov. 12 one of the Rosen shuttles stalled on University Avenue shortly after leaving the main campus, and started to release smoke from the engine area, said Adriana Solla, senior biomedical sciences major. The driver stopped on the side of the road until a replacement bus arrived.
Solla, who was on the bus at the time, said students on board waited about 10-15 minutes for the replacement bus to come then transferred onto it on the side of the road as traffic zoomed by. She said the replacement was not big enough to fit all the students on board, so the rest of the students had to wait more time for another bus to come.
“It was scary. I was very frustrated and super angry about it, because that day we had to wait for the bus like 20 minutes after, so we were already a little bit angry about it,” Solla said. “I heard about the other bus that exploded the other day … it’s still scary thinking about it right now.”
Knight News reached out to UCF about student complaints, and were told that the Nov. 12 incident was caused by a mechanical issue and that a replacement vehicle was dispatched immediately, said UCF spokeswoman Rachel Williams, in an email.
The latest incident reported to Knight News was Dec. 6. Solla said after students were picked up from UCF campus the driver said the shuttle needed gas, and had all students on board exit the bus at the service station until she finished pumping the gas. It’s not clear if this is against safety rules, but Solla said she did not experience this before.
In response to students’ complaints about the shuttle being late and not having enough space for all passengers, Williams said there are three buses that service the Rosen campus and that UCF monitors the situation consistently to keep up with student demands.
“The shuttle service is continuously monitored and adjustments are made as needed,” Williams said in an email. “Students can track the shuttles via the UCF mobile app, which provides real-time updates on the location of the shuttles, and when they are expected to arrive and depart for each route.”
However, students who take the bus regularly say it is always late at the 5:15 time on UCF’s main campus. One student suggested it would be better if the timing was changed to reflect when the shuttle actually comes, so students don’t have to wait around expecting it to arrive. 
“It’s never on time at 5:15,” said Joseph Ruberto, senior English major. “I wish they would kind of push back the time, instead of 5:15 if they would say 5:30.”
Ruberto said the bus is always at least 15 minutes late, and that sometimes there isn’t enough space for all the students forcing them to cram inside.
Some students said due to the lack of space sometimes students sit on the floor. Dianna Perez, junior studio art major, said she had to sit on the floor once this semester because there wasn’t enough space. Solla also said she saw other students sit on the floor, but didn’t have to sit herself.
Williams said students are not allowed to sit on the floor and drivers are instructed not to allow them to.
On Nov. 13, Solla said it was raining at UCF campus and the driver arrived for the 5:15 pickup, around 6:05.
“When [the driver] pulled up he said ‘I’m not gonna risk my life I can’t see through the glass and the windshield wipers are broken, you guys are gonna have to wait for the 7:15,’ which is the next bus that’s supposed to come,” Solla said. “I remember I was so frustrated about it, I had just got out of a test and was ready to go home.”
She said the driver took his stuff and left the bus in the street. About 30 minutes later another bus came to pick students up. It was small but everyone crammed inside, Solla said. She said she was in a bus that stalled on the road at least twice this semester.
Williams said the company that runs the shuttles, Transdev, is responsible for their maintenance as part of their contract.
UCF alumnus Arnaldo Perez-Negron, who graduated in the summer of 2018, said he used the bus for about two years of his time at UCF and experienced the same issues. Perez-Negron, who is also Solla’s boyfriend, said the bus would regularly stall, at least twice each semester.
He said he believes the drivers choose smaller buses which often do not have enough space for the students who need to take them.
“We heard bus drivers say that the company allows them to choose the buses they want to drive, and since the smaller buses are easier for the drivers they go ahead and choose the smaller buses,” Perez-Negron said.
Solla said in the summer the Rosen bus schedule changes, and as a result would not allow her to catch up with her morning classes at UCF campus. She said she had to spend money on gas and tolls in order to get to her classes.
Solla emailed UCF complaining about the schedule issue and if they would consider changing their schedule to allow students who take morning classes at UCF to use the shuttle service. She said she was frustrated and disappointed that they did not address her concerns. The response she got to her detailed email to UCF shuttles, was “thank you for your feedback.”
UCF is switching their shuttle service to Groome Transportation next year and will have a new fleet of shuttles that service the main campus and all satellite campuses, Williams said. But the schedules and routes will not change.
“It would be nice to at least have a conversation with someone from transportation, because as of right now we’ve had absolutely no one listening to the complaints of the students,”  Perez-Negron said. “Driving a bus that has smoke coming out, or that has to stop in the middle of a 70 mph highway or in the middle of University Boulevard, it is putting the students’ safety at risk.”



