Shortly after an emotional vigil for London Harrell at UCF, her mother announced on Facebook that “God called London home.”
Hundreds have commented on the post, paying respect to the 21-year-old UCF senior who was the victim of a tragic hit-and-run accident on June 22. Others are paying respects on London’s personal profile page.
“She is no longer in pain and her bright light will shine in heaven – reminding us that doing for others should always be a priority,” Paula Cobb wrote on Facebook. “Miracles happen in many ways and for us having a few more days to spend with London was an answer to that prayer. I love you all.”
“This Little Light of Mine” plays as loved ones huddle in solidarity. #LondonStrong pic.twitter.com/TlBuACKqhG
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) June 29, 2019

Family, friends and loved ones gathered for a prayer vigil on the lawn of the UCF Reflection Pond on Friday evening.
Outside of the library and before the dozens gathered, Cobb shared thanks to the UCF community for their support.
“This is her home. She loves it here and you have been her family – she is truly a Knight,” Cobb said. “I just wanna thank you all so much for what you’ve done for us this week and how you helped us get through this.. the prayers, encouragement, and love that we feel.”
Family and loved ones symbolically place flowers into Reflection Pond.
“This is her home and you’ve been her family,” her mother says. #LondonStrong pic.twitter.com/ZoaPLMZHhf
— UCF Knight News (@UCFKnightNews) June 29, 2019

 
The atmosphere of community support felt by Cobb was also sensed by UCF Police Chief Carl Metzger.
“I’m proud of our campus tonight, coming together like true Knights, Chief Metzger told Knight News at the close of the vigil. “We are a family and tonight really demonstrates that.”
According to the Florida Highway Patrol, witnesses say that Harrell was struck by Yousuf Hasan’s 2015 Acura ILX while walking a grass shoulder on Napiers Circle near UCF, just before 1 a.m. on the morning of June 22.
Crash and DUI troopers believe Hasan was under the influence of drugs at the time of the accident, FHP reports. A blood sample has been sent to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement for evaluation.
Hasan was released on bond set at $11,500 on June 24.
As of June 28, Hasan has returned into police custody in connection to the death of London Harrell.
He is charged with DUI manslaughter.




