Orange County Fire Rescue crews responded to InStyle Hair – a business inside of Waterford Lakes – late Thursday after a haze in the store building set off an emergency alarm. 
The alarm was set off after the business turned on their heater for the first time in years, an Orange County Fire Spokesperson told Knight News. 
The heat from the heating system burned dust that had gathered on the system’s coils creating a haze throughout the store.
The spokesperson said there was no fire in the building and no one was injured. 
.@OCFireRescue officials say no fire in the building and no injuries — Video by @megnturner_ https://t.co/2OJ9yY1LpC pic.twitter.com/2z30EuS7Iy





A
lot of students work part-time while in school to get by or help take some of
the financial burden off their families. These are usually dead-end jobs they
aren’t passionate about and aren’t motivated to do. 
“Even
if I was just serving one client I’d be just happy doing what I do. Knowing
that I get to wake up in the morning and do what I love,” said Zaus Streete a 22-year-old
human communication major. “You really gotta have a passion for what you do.”
Streete
wanted more than just a part time job, he wanted something that could take his
passion to the next level. As the owner of Streete Martial Arts his passion for
business and martial arts is extremely evident.
Having
done martial arts for 15 years of his life and worked at a karate school he’d
been thinking of starting his own businesses. 
What
makes his business unique is that instead of residing in a permanent building
Street Martial Arts is mobile. Streete said he plans on sharing his love for
martial arts with as many people in the community as possible. 
Though
it’s been a long time coming, he said he’s really proud of where his business
is and where it’s headed. 
“I’m
not gonna say it’s easy at all it’s gonna take some work,” Streete said. “If
you’re passionate about something I just say go for it.”
Joquell Paris-Sautos, a 21-year-old audio engineering major at Valencia College wanted more than a part-time job.
“If
I’m gonna be working something that I get bored on constantly let me at least
have something that makes me want to get up in the morning,” Paris-Sautos said.

With
his company he said he is striving to show the importance of “linking” or
connecting with others and how individuals skills can benefit each other. Links
Creation is an entertainment umbrella company that gives creators access to
resources they wouldn’t otherwise have, like studio time. 
The
company has subsections and together the company can be the super center for
resources in the entertainment industry. The main subsection of the company
that he’s currently focused on is the audio aspect, Links Audio. 
Paris-Sautos
said he wants to continue to grow his business and expand the subsections in
the future. 
Self-motivation
and mental fatigue are a huge part of being a business owner, but this is how
he stays motivated and passionate.
“I
always try to have somebody in my ear that’s where I want to be or doing what I
want to do,” Paris-Sautos said, “Stuff like that I call it plugging in,
whenever I speak to my mentor that’s just me plugging into that source.”
Bernard Rodriguez, a 22-year-old business administration major, owns Nine Seven, an online clothing store. He said his mission is to inspire others through his story, to work hard and persevere. 
“Any
aspect of your life to the 97 degree, put any aspect to the 97 degree you’re
gonna get a big number,” Rodriguez said.
After dropping out of high school, the passing of his father and coming back to education he still manages to stay motivated. He realized his father would’ve wanted him to get a higher education. He got his diploma and now he’s pursuing his degree in business administration.
His
mentality is what keeps him motivated in school and his business.
“You
build a certain type of mentality,” Rodriguez said. “It gets to a point where
you can’t even quit if you wanted to.”



