After nearly a quarter-century of roaming the sidelines and working the airwaves, legendary radio broadcaster Jerry O’ Neill is hanging up the mic and retiring from UCF Football’s radio team.
O’Neill, who served as the Knight’s sideline reporter and pre-game host since 1995, announced his retirement Wednesday on “The Beat of Sports with Marc Daniels” on FM 96.9 The Game — a show where he is affectionally nicknamed “The Stache”.
After 24 years, our friend and the best sideline reporter in the country is retiring. Jerry O’Neill is dropping the mic. A brother, friend for life, broadcasting legend…..#TheStache we salute you. pic.twitter.com/X7VdJjBFu6
— UCF Marc Daniels (@ucf_marcdaniels) August 14, 2019

“For 24 seasons I have had the best seat in the house for UCF football games… and I never sat down,” O’Neill wrote. “Nobody will love it more but like a baton in a relay race, it is time to pass the mic.”
O’Neill shared that he and his wife, Annie, are looking forward to their next chapter in life, where they’ve “moved up the road a piece … to get away from the hustle of the metro area.”
O’Neill’s departure will bring some roster changes to the UCF football broadcast team, Mark Daniels announced in a press release.
Scott Adams, who is entering into his 18th season with the UCF Football broadcast team, will take over as the new pre-game host and sideline reporter.
Former Knight and NFL defensive end Leger Douzable will also join the broadcast team this season.
“Leger played at UCF up until 2008 and then enjoyed a 10-year career in the NFL. He worked on our spring broadcast and joins us for the 2019 season,” Daniels wrote. “With experience working for CBS Sports HQ and NFL Network, Leger brings a wealth of football and broadcasting background to our crew. As a former Knight, I am really excited to bring Leger aboard.”
The Knights radio broadcast team are back in action on Aug. 29, when the Knights take on Florida A&M at 7:30 p.m. The broadcast can be heard on 96.9 FM/740 AM The Game.



