A flyer displayed at the UCF campus claims a recent Florida law would “restrict legitimate criticism of Isreal and the role of Jews in the United States,” according to a Facebook post by Knights for Isreal. 
The flyer takes aim at a recent state law signed into effect by Gov. Ron DeSantis that bans anti-Semitic speak or discrimination on Florida public schools, in summary.
The law also widens the definition of antisemitism to include accusing Jews or the state of Israel of exaggerating the holocaust, making “stereotypical allegations” dehumanizing Jews, and calling for the death of Jews in the name of extremist views. 
The flyer itself drew criticism of the law’s potential conflict with the first amendment — a criticism echoed while the  bill underwent the legislative process.
Today's incident was a gaslight towards Jews and Zionists alike. It was a disgraceful attempt to hide behind and abuse…
The flyer also concludes with a quote attributed to Kevin Alfred Strom, who is described as an American neo-nazi movement extremist who was convicted of possessing child pornography in 2003, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.
“To learn who rules over you, simply find out who you are not allowed to criticize,” the flyer reads. 
The flyer has drawn attention from Knights for Isreal — a pro-Isreal campus group — and others on social media. 
“Today’s incident was a gaslight towards Jews and Zionists alike,” the group wrote in on their Facebook. “It was a disgraceful attempt to hide behind and abuse Free Speech to be anti-semitic.” 
Yoni Michanie, a retired Isreali Defense Sergeant and middle east writer, tweeted about the flyer, writing that “history has fallen on deaf ears.”
Despicable fliers were found all throughout @UCF's campus, calling for legal protection to:"Criticize the role of #Jews in the United States." Never mind Pogroms.Never mind the Holocaust.Never mind ethnic cleansing by Arab states. History, has fallen on deaf ears. pic.twitter.com/GadcD4v6RZ
Attention to the flyer comes in wake of an instance of anti-Semitic vandalism on a sign that reads “The Future Home of Chabad at UCF.” 
As News 6 reported, the sign was vandalized with swastika symbols and a website address with pro-Nazi videos.
The neo-Nazi themed vandalism spurred an investigation by the university.  There are no known updates at this time. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



