The Knights are set to face Marshall in the Bad Boy Mowers Gasparilla Bowl at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida. The game is set for Dec. 23 at 2:30 p.m. and will be broadcast on ESPN. 
For the first time in two years, the Knights are not the highest-ranked Group of Five team after finishing the regular season 9-3 overall, and 6-2 in conference play. 
UCF last appeared in the Gasparilla Bowl — which was called the Bitcoin Bowl and played in St. Petersburg, Florida, until 2017 — in 2014 and faced NC State where the Knights were defeated by the Wolfpak 27-34.
O’Leary, with Blake Bortles under center, led UCF to defeat Ball State 38-17 in the 2012 Gasparilla Bowl. Bortles completed 22-of-33 passes on 272 yards for three touchdowns on the night.
UCF also appeared in the 2009 Gasparilla Bowl, where Rutgers beat UCF 45-24. 
Tickets can be purchased from UCFKnights.com, and more information regarding tickets can be found at this link. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



Juice WRLD reportedly died Sunday after having a seizure, according to reports. 
First reported by TMZ, the Chicago-born rapper was on a flight from California to Chicago when he suffered a seizure while deplaning at Chicago’s Midway Airport. 
“Witnesses tell us he suffered the seizure while walking through the airport. Law enforcement sources say he was bleeding from the mouth when paramedics got on scene,” TMZ reports. 
 The hip-hop superstar made his mark on the scene with his hit singles “Lucid Dreams,” “All Girls Are the Same,” and “Bandit.”
Top 5 on @Spotify United States Top 50:1. "Highest In The Room" – @trvisXX2. "Circles" – @PostMalone3. "Bandit" – @JuiceWorlddd + @GGYOUNGBOY4. "Lights Up" – @Harry_Styles5. "10,000 Hours" – @DanAndShay + @justinbieber pic.twitter.com/OzE5quDuvD
The rapper, born Jarad Anthony Higgins, had turned 21 last week. 
This life is yours do what tf you want do great things and change the world don’t let no one tell you SHIT.. and you’ll be bigger than “juice wrld” will ever be, and he’s going down as a legend – Jarad
Juice WRLD was next scheduled to perform on Dec. 14 at Rolling Loud Los Angeles at the Banc of California Stadium. 
This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 



