The UCF Board of Trustees voted seven to three in favor of accepting President Dale Whittaker’s resignation.
His resignation will be effective immediately and the Board of Trustees named Thad Seymour as acting president until a long-term, interim president can be named.
Though initially the public comments portion of the meeting was to be limited to 15 minutes, the time limit was extended to 90 minutes due to the large public turnout. 
Several people came to speak in defense of Whittaker, including long-term friends, co-workers, and current university students. Among these speakers was Whittaker’s wife Mary and their daughter Erin. 
Mary Whittaker became very emotional during her speech as she addressed both the board and the students who lined the back wall of the room with signs supporting Dale Whittaker. She called him “the right person to lead UCF.”
While a few speakers were in favor of the resignation passing, several people spoke out against it.
Trustee Alex Martins said that he is committed to improving transparency at UCF and that “it is time for us to heal and for us to move on.” 
Knight News attorney Justin Hemlepp, was among those who spoke. He said Whittaker’s resignation will not be a solution because UCF’s stonewalling and cover-ups are the real issue. 
“If UCF was up front about Colbourn Hall’s condition when Knight News received tips about it in 2015, this might have been avoided,” Hemlepp said. “Image over Transparency is the problem.”
Chair Robert Garvey was asked to retain his position as Board of Trustees Acting Chair despite the July 1 elections approaching.
The next meeting is yet to be determined. Garvey said it would take time to find an interim president. 
“To name an interim president is going to require both our approval and the board of governors’ approval,” Garvey said.
Stay tuned for more updates on this story.



In the midst of UCF President Dale Whittaker offering his resignation to the Board of Trustees, the office of the president was pressured to write positive reviews of Whittaker, an employee close to the matter said on condition of anonymity.
Subordinate employees to Vice President of Communications Grant Heston and Assistant Vice President of Strategic Communications & Marketing Christine Dellart were pressured to express positive reviews before public comment to the Board of Trustees after Whittaker announced his resignation offer, the source said. The Thursday at 10 a.m. BOT meeting would include a staged act by the UCF President’s Office where a named employee would step up to comment publicly and cry in support of President Whittaker, according to the tipster.
At the Board of Trustees meeting, the President’s Office spoke publicly and one staff member gave an emotional account of their support for the president, in line with what the UCF employee provided in the hours before the meeting.
A close circle of staff who supported University of Central Florida president Dale Whittaker during his presidential campaign received up to $50,000 in pay raises, the employee told Knight News Thursday morning. Heston and Dellart both received pay raises.
UCF said the following employees received both a promotion and a pay raise, but did not deny the allegation by another UCF employee that they received the pay raise because of their support for the president: 
While UCF did not deny the allegation, UCF said there was no “basis to support any suggestion that the promotions and associated raises were in any way connected with Dr. Whittaker’s candidacy,” a university spokesman said. “All of these promotions and associated pay raises were approved by the Human Resources Department.”
“With regard to the meeting today, President’s Office staff members planned their participation and wrote their remarks before telling their managers about their intentions.”
Knight News, however, continues to hear from multiple sources who believe UCF is playing favorites with Whittaker’s past supporters. One source points to a recent posting for a deputy chief of staff for strategic initiatives as an example of a job created that could keep the president’s supporter in power, they said.
Publicly available 2017-2018 Salaries:
 

Publicly available Fall 2018 Salaries (Aug ’18-April ’19):




An October 2015 article from the Orlando Sentinel stated that Grant Heston, VP communication/marketing, received a $7,786 increase in salary that year. Old: $217,214, New: $225,000, Increase: 4%.
The source alleges that Human Resources was ‘not comfortable’ playing along but followed through with the actions.
Knight News asked UCF to comment on other information we’ve learned from our sources. Check back as we update the story for more information as we can.



