On a late September afternoon Adam Searles was going
through his bucket of shrimp in a conservation lab to examine his aquatic
findings. This time Searles was examining the gills of a little shrimp. 
Adam Searles, a recent UCF alumnus has taken his biology
studies from Orlando to the Atlantic coast. Searles works on behalf of
Florida’s environment in the most diverse estuary in North America at the Florida
Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission in Melbourne.
Searles said he was always fascinated with marine life
and knew from an early age studying wildlife would be his career.
“Research gives you a sneak peek into a world that not
many people get to see,” Searles said. “But you’re also doing good for the
habitat that you’re admiring.”
The Indian River Lagoon is home to over 14 federally threatened or endangered species and 45 more species listed by the state as threatened, endangered, special concern or commercially exploited, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Wildlife populations are declining in the Indian River
Lagoon due to the environmental impacts of rapid population growth. This is the
same wildlife that sustain a healthy ecosystem and ultimately society. 
“Our fish quality is a reflection of what may happen to us. So, we must work for what we want for our lives,” said Richard Paperno, a monitor adviser at FWC who devoted his life to conservation for over 30 years and trained Searles.
As a part of Searles’ job he monitors aquatic species
of the lagoon and collects samples to observe diseases and population declines.
Searles said his work has been gratifying to understand the interconnected
factors that allow ecosystems to flourish.
 “Civilization
can’t live without properly functioning ecosystems,” Searles said. “Because if
you take out the ecosystem, it’s like a house of cards, the whole thing falls.”
Species stability is not only important for wildlife but directly to people as well, Searles said. 
When Searles is researching different aquatic species he’ll typically collect a sample and examine their gills and other body parts through a microscope. He searches to find anything peculiar, such as the species growing to a smaller size, or discoloration. 
Searles emphasized the importance of paying attention
to species at the lower levels of the food chain. These lower-level species matter
indirectly because their stability has an ecological ripple effect. That’s why
the FWC uses ecosystem-based science, because it considers all species, Searles
said. A species may appear insignificant to most people but provide food to the
game fish which directly effects fisheries and subsequently the economy.
Searles said it’s been a humbling experience to work
in nature and understand wildlife more.
Another active member of the UCF community is Melinda
Donnelly, a UCF biology postdoctoral fellow who has also devoted her work to
conservation on the Indian River Lagoon. She has
recently been focusing on the social dimensions of the ecology of the lagoon.
Donnelly is researching the lagoon through the experiences of local people who live there, on how the lagoon has changed over the years. Donnelly said what she hears most often from people is how congested the surrounding area of the Indian River Lagoon has become. People typically complain about the overcrowding because it diminishes the number of vital flood control wetlands of the lagoon, she said. 
 “The wetlands
are definitely one of our most underappreciated ecological systems,” Donnelly
said. “We realized that we rely on them for so many ecosystem services. Now we
know wetlands support everything from cleaning up all the storm water to
supporting local fisheries.”
The diseases fish can get from the diminished water
quality due to pollution effects the overall trajectory of the entire aquatic
population, Searles said.
Preservation of these important ecosystems has become
crucial. Donnelly spoke about major threats, and how people are influencing ecosystem
declines in more ways than population increase.
“Our water systems are affected by the use of the
fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides which eventually ends up in our
waterways and into the ecosystems,” Donnelly said. “What are you putting in
your yard and are you contributing to a much larger problem?”
Despite damages that have been done to the ecosystem, Donnelly said it isn’t the end. She said the process of spreading awareness about the ramifications begins and continues with more initiatives, like reducing the use of plastic and proper disposal of fertilizers to prevent degradation of the ecosystem.
“Wetlands are very resilient and if you give them the
opportunity to recover, most of the time they will,” Donnelly said. “So, just
because wetland coverage has been altered in the past doesn’t mean it’s a lost
cause. It’s definitely worth trying to get back to its natural function.”



A 21-year-old UCF student struck and killed a pedestrian while driving in the UCF area Sunday evening, according to the Florida Highway Patrol. 
Aquirira Lane, from Punta Gorde, Florida, was traveling on University Boulevard and approaching Rouse Road when the front of her 2016 Jeep struck a pedestrian attempting to cross the road around 6:50 p.m. The man was not using a cross walk, according to a FHP press release. 
Troopers said the driver was not under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident. 
The identity of the victim is still pending, according to the release.  
Troopers said the crash is still under investigation.
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



