Fair Trade is a nationwide organization that helps developing countries by labeling their products “fair trade certified,” indicating those products come from farms that have been certified to provide fair wages and safe working conditions, according to the Fair Trade website.
Fair trade products also make sure farmers obey international environmental standards. Such as organic conversion, reforestation, water conservation and environmental education.
UCF is in the process of becoming fair trade certified, and a group of four students gets together once a week during the fall semester to table for fair trade and try and get UCF to be certified.
In order for UCF to become fair trade certified they have to: reach out to more campus outlets to increase the availability of fair trade products, work with more campus offices and catering to source fair trade products, and pass a fair trade resolution according to the UCF Fair Trade campaign.
One of UCF’s fair trade leaders, Jordana Khandakji, sophomore environmental studies major, said Fair Trade campaigns are important to all universities especially UCF, one of the largest universities in the country.
“Being an environmental studies major, looking for sustainable efforts and eco-friendly organizations is always something I want to do,” Khandakji said.
This
Fair Trade group helps bring awareness to different products sold specifically
at UCF. Products like the Italian roast at Starbucks, chocolate bars, and other
products sold at Java city in the library.
Glorimar
Rivera, a fellow sophomore and environmental studies major, talked about why
fair trade was important to UCF.
“A lot of students can be involved, we don’t have to make a big change, just more of a small change,” Rivera said.
Rivera
wants more students to know about fair trade, and the products you can buy that
are certified. She personally buys the chai spice tea.
Another
student tabling Nov. 16 was Shawn Harper, a senior environmental studies major.
Harper said he was really big on keeping corporations at UCF in check and
holding them accountable.
“Being on campus and making people aware is what it needs to keep it alive,” said Harper.
Throughout the day, other students walked up to the fair-trade table to ask about what it was. Most of the students knew nothing about fair trade, one of the students tabling would give them a statement about the organization and what they are trying to do at UCF. The fair traders also handed out stickers saying, “do the ripe thing” and “thanks a bunch!”
“My favorite sticker is a picture of an avocado saying ‘Avo great day!’,”  said   Hanneke Martin, junior environmental studies major.
Martin
talked about why tabling for Fair Trade at UCF was so important.
“It
is important to use our powers as consumers to make a difference to make things
more ethical and sustainable,” Martin said.
Martin is avid on making UCF a fair trade certified school.
“Education about anything is important, making it more aware at UCF can help spread awareness on a wider scale,” Martin said.
Rivera
offered a final piece of advice for any student interested in joining their
fair-trade team.
“Don’t feel bad if you’re not saving the world and rescuing sea turtles,”  Rivera said. “Be more conscious about what’s in your food, and just give a damn about your environment.”



USF football head coach Charlie Strong has been fired after three seasons, according to a Sunday university press release.
Strong’s departure from the program comes less than 48 hours after the program suffered its third consecutive loss to the Knights. 
USF Vice President of Athletics Michael Kelly relieved the third-year coach his duties Sunday and immediately began a national search for a new leader for the Bulls’ football program, according to the release. 
“I would like to thank Coach Strong and his staff for their hard work and contributions to our program,” Kelly said in the release. “I have tremendous respect for Coach Strong and his dedication to recruiting and developing young men of talent and character and leading them with integrity. He has represented USF with dignity and class and we wish Coach and his family the very best.”
Strong took over for the Bulls to start the 2017 season. Under his leadership, USF finished 21 – 16 in three seasons.
Kelly said he met with the student-athletes to ensure his message that USF’s commitment to a championship-caliber football program was clear. 
“We know our best is ahead of us. We have a passionate fan base, compete in a tremendous conference, reside in a beautiful and booming community steps away from the nation’s top football talent and have great momentum toward building a transformative football center that will enhance our impressive facilities,” Kelly said in the release. “We remain committed to achieving excellence at the highest level.”
The USF football program completed its 23rd season in 2019, with 10 total bowl game appearances under four head coaches in program history.  
Strong marked the best two-year start by a head coach in program history with a 10-2 victory over Texas Tech in the Birmingham Bowl in his first year at the helm, according to the UCF game notes. 
The 10-2 overall record, the 20-week Top 25 ranking and the bowl game victory weren’t in his first season wasn’t enough to make Strong’s second-season loss to Marshall in the Gasparilla Bowl hurt any less.
 The Bulls went 7-6 overall under Strong in his second season and fell to 4-8 overall in his third season. This will mark the first time since 2014 the Bulls are bowl-ineligible.
“I fully support the decision to reorient our football program in a new direction,” USF President Steven C. Currall said in the Sunday press release. “We are committed to excellence across all aspects of the University, including USF Athletics. I am confident that our search will result in a new head coach who will lead our student-athletes to great achievements on and off the field.”
Kelly said a national search is underway.
“Be assured that process will be deliberate and will move with necessary speed,” Kelly said in the release. “I will have no public comment regarding candidates or the progress of the search until it is complete and we introduce the new leader of our program.”
Megan Turner contributed to this story. 
This story has been updated with new information and is still developing.



