The UCF Student Government has partnered with the stationless mobility company Spin to bring electric scooters to UCF’s main campus in January 2020, according to a Monday press release.
The big picture:
UCF’s transition to scooters was prompted after Lime phased out its bicycle option nationwide and removed its fleet of 600 bicycles from the university campus in June due to a strong interest in electric scooters.
Spin — a Ford Motor Company-owned dockless scooter-share program  — was selected by the UCF Student Government and will be overseen by the UCF Parking and Transportation Services. 
What we know so far:
Twelve charging stations — coined Spin Hubs — will be stationed around the campus. The Spin Hubs are designed to incentivize riders to park at the charging stations and reduce clutter.
UCF Student Government launched a process in fall that required operators to develop a proposal based on criteria and platform points outlined by students, before selecting Spin. 
UCF SG Director of Community Affairs Kevin Olsen said in a press release that the executive cabinet worked diligently to bring the exciting service to UCF. 
“This has been one of the most popular platform points and we are proud to be partnered with a company that we know will cater to UCF students’ needs,” Olsen said in the release. “There’s no doubt that this will add to the already positive atmosphere of our campus, improving the lives of current students and generations of Knights to come.”
Several safety initiatives will be implemented by Spin and UCF to protect both riders and pedestrians. 
“Above all, safety remains our top priority as we try to ensure that students get where they need to go quickly and efficiently,” UCF SG Transportation Coordinator Emmett Davy said in a press release.
The scooters will be restricted from exiting campus and speed-regulated zones will be designated in heavy pedestrian areas.
The scooters will also be subject to a curfew “to minimize the risk of using while impaired,” the release states.
What’s next: 
Before the spring unveil, Spin and UCF Student Government will test the scooters. 
The scooters, which were custom-designed, will be tested through a series of events hosted by Spin on-campus safety and parking training events throughout December, according to the release.
“We’re especially excited about a series of pre-launch safety events that we’re developing with the students,” said John Lankford, University Partnerships at Spin, in the release. “Studies show safety incidents are more likely to occur during a riders first time using an e-scooter. We’re working to prevent this by having a presence on campus in the weeks prior to launch.”
The first training event is scheduled for Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Memory Mall.



