It was a busy August morning on UCF’s main campus. Gabrielle
Prickett, a 25-year-old sport and exercise science major, was on her way to the
Campus Store & Foxtail Cafe when she suddenly collided with a quick-moving
bicyclist near John C. Hitt Library. 
“I couldn’t help but yell at him. I was angry at how fast he was going, even when he could see a large crowd of us walking,” Prickett said. “It’s inconsiderate and dangerous.” 
After dusting herself off, Prickett continued on her journey. She was relieved that no one was injured, but since then, Prickett said she feels paranoid while walking on campus. 
Students like Prickett find themselves having to dodge other commuters on a daily basis. With the steady increase of students that attend the university, sidewalks are bustling with people. 
In just one year, the enrollment headcount increased by 1,469 students from 2018 to 2019, according to UCF’s Institutional Knowledge Management database. 
UCFPD reported that in 2018, there were eight
bicycle-involved accidents and five pedestrian-involved accidents.
Emma Cahill is an 18-year-old hospitality major who
rides her bike to class every week. Cahill plans her departure from her dormitory
during times when there are less people taking up the pathways. She avoids
certain sidewalks that are too small and has to take extra measures to have a
smoother ride. 
Despite her preparations, Cahill said she gets consistently
nervous when heading to class on her bicycle. 
“It would be easier if pedestrians stayed to the outside of the sidewalks so that skateboards, scooters and bikes have the middle,” Cahill said. 
This battle for parts of the campus sidewalks has created
a ‘turf war’ between commuters. 
Skateboarders like Lau Martinez are among those who
struggle during the scuffle for the sidewalks while traveling to and from class.
For Martinez, a 20-year-old management major, the most
frustrating thing about riding his skateboard on campus is the amount of people
in his way. He said some people don’t know how much room they take up. 
“People will see me coming and either move in the wrong direction or don’t move at all,” Martinez said.  “They just don’t get it.” 
Martinez has been close to crashing into people, but
said he would rather take the fall than hit someone on his skateboard. 
In 2018, there were five medical responses to
incidents involving people falling off their skateboards, according to UCFPD
statistics. That number has increased, with 14 medical responses reported in
2019. 
Although the turf war continues this semester, UCFPD
encourages those traveling around campus to be aware of their surroundings and
avoid distractions such as cell phones. 
“Help keep UCF safe for everyone by obeying the rules of the road and looking out for one another,” said Amanda Sellers, a communications specialist for UCFPD. “Drivers, pedestrians, bicyclists and skateboarders all share UCF’s campus.”



The UCF Police Department discussed the true cost of DUI and the consequences students could face, at an event in the Student Union Thursday.
At the discussion, led by
Cpl. Frank Imparato of the UCFPD, students were shown how a field sobriety test
is done and how officers conduct a DUI arrest.
“There are three
exercises we utilize to validate an arrest, we have the horizontal gaze
nystagmus, the walk and turn exercise, and the one-leg stand exercise,”
Imparato said.
Students will face serious consequences if charged with a DUI, including jail time, license suspension, a victim impact panel, and potentially having an ignition interlock device installed in their vehicle. The interlock device is a breath analyzer that’s installed on the ignition system to check an individual’s breath for alcohol and prevent the vehicle from starting if someone is drunk. 
In addition, The Office of Student Conduct will impose sanctions as they see fit based upon the nature of the offense.
Guest speaker Bill DeMott, the father of UCF student Keri Ann DeMott who was killed in 2015 by a drunk driver, said he was home sleeping when he was alerted that his daughter was not home.
“I remembered my oldest
daughter woke me up and said [Keri] she wasn’t home, and as a parent you know
where your child should be at three in the morning. I got right in my truck and
left,” DeMott said. “About halfway there I got a call from Highway Patrol and
they said my daughter was in an accident, and I should pull over; they said she
was in a crash and she didn’t make it.”
DeMott said he stopped everything, including his career because he knew who his daughter was and what she was going to do with her life. DeMott said his daughter was a hard worker and volunteered at every Sunday school for their church, and he wants to keep her memory alive. 
The DeMott family later created the Keri Ann DeMott Foundation in hopes of ending drunk, impaired, and distracted driving.
According to the Florida
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, the number of alcohol-related
crashes in Florida decreased from 417 fatalities in 2016 to 350 in 2017. From
2016 to 2017, fatalities decreased by just over 16 percent and non-fatal
injuries decreased by almost 4 percent.
Coral Chico, 18-year-old
freshmen business major, attended the discussion and said she has never driven
while intoxicated and uses alternative forms of transportation to get home.
“Honestly leaving here this makes me want to reach out to people who I know that have drunk driven in the past and just share what I learned today,” Chico said. “You know it’s honestly not worth the amount of consequences and risk that you’re taking just to do a small drive home.”
For students who may need assistance getting home, the Student Government has partnered with Lyft for safe and reliable rides. This safe ride program provides students with a $7.50 credit per ride for up to 2 rides per month, according to the Student Government website. 



A UCF student was killed in a car accident while on his way to a computer science tournament in Tallahassee on Oct. 18.
Stephen Habinowski, 19, a sophomore computer science major, was on his way to Hackathon at Florida State University when the accident occurred, according to a GoFundMe page setup by his sister to help pay for funeral expenses.
Stephen’s sister, Keri Habinowski, wrote that he was a very accomplished and hard working student who loved computer coding and programming. The accident was a tragic and sudden event for the family.
“Our worst nightmare became a reality this weekend after our Stephen was taken from us way too soon and unfortunately,” Keri Habinowski wrote on the GoFundMe page. “This nightmare has brought a huge financial burden on all of Stephen’s family and loved ones.”
Keri Habinowski is also a UCF student, senior biomedical sciences major. She asked people to help out by donating to the GoFundMe.
“Anything would help with the devastating loss of Stephen, and we are eternally grateful for any donations to help lay his perfect soul to rest,” she wrote on the GoFundMe page.
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



