A UCF senator was impeached Feb. 7, following an accusation of misfeasance, microaggression by a UCF senate chair.
Senate Committee Chair Rachel Friant filed for the impeachment of Senator Patrick Cherubin accusing him of harassing her and other student groups and other disrespectful behavior, according to an affidavit. 
Friant said the harassment accusation comes from his “constant contact,” of members of Registered Student Organizations, including on nights, weekends and holidays. She also accused him of “sexist microaggressions” and “hostile remarks,” according to the affidavit.  
Cherubin said he never sent any messages that can be construed as harassment “not a single one,” and that he was contacting them within his duties as a senator. He said he believes the senate leadership has been wanting to remove him “from day one,” and that these accusations are a result of him being “highly critical” of senate members and how things are run.
Friant said several RSO leaders complained about him constantly calling and messaging them, asking for information she says is not needed. 
Cherubin said these accusations are unfounded, and that he was contacting RSO’s as part of an investigation he was conducting.
“I can emphatically state that my calls or text were not excessive,” Cherubin said. “I submitted my phone record since September as evidence to support my case.” 
Friant said Cherubin was also contacting her very frequently to the point that she had to make a rule that he was not to contact her after business hours. 
“I had to implement a new rule that he was not to contact me out of business hours because some of his contacts were coming in at very late hours of the evening and morning wanting information that frankly he does not need,” Friant said.
During the impeachment proceedings one of the senators brought up that there was a missing sentence in the affidavit, but was told by the chair presiding that this isn’t something of concern since it was filed that way.
Cherubin says that the missing sentence was relevant in showing his reasoning for contacting RSO’s. Friant said the missing sentence was a possible printer error and that she informed the senate leadership once she found out about it. 
A hearing is set for March 7, to review the case. Both sides would be able to present evidence and cross examine witnesses, Cherubin said. However, Cherubin said he fears he will not get a fair review because the senate leadership is the one that would ultimately decide on the case.



An Orlando radio personality is facing charges of battery on a law enforcement officer following an altercation with UCF police in December.
Marc Tyler Dixon, known as Nailz of The Power 95.3 “Wake Up Show”, is accused of ‘striking’ a UCF police officer on Dec. 7, 2018, the night of the Migos concert at the CFE Arena, according to court records. The local weekday morning show by Nailz and co-host Estee is popular in part by a segment titled the “Carmen Call”: a longrunning prank call segment on the radio station. 
According to the arrest affidavit, two UCF police officers responded to the second floor of the CFE Arena to assist emergency medical services with an ‘intoxicated individual’ shortly after 11 p.m. The ‘intoxicated individual, Dixon, was ‘slurring his speech, stumbling, and getting physical with other concert attendees”, the affidavit claims.
Dixon was later cleared by EMS to exit the arena. According to the affidavit, his friends attempted to escort him outside of the arena ‘by arm’ but Dixon refused, “pushing back and pulling away his arm”. Dixon then stated he needed to urinate and began walking into the men’s restroom with his friends following behind. “Concerned for his well-being and the well-being of the other attendees of the concert”, officers trailed the group into the restroom and observed Dixon with “his back inside of the urinal”, that affidavit stated. Dixon’s friends offered him water and continued trying to help him out of the arena. Dixon resisted their efforts, “stumbling, pulling his arm away, and stepping backwards”, according to the affidavit.
“I stated to him several times that he needed to leave the arena and that he was trespassed”, said officers according to the affidavit.
Dixon eventually exited the restroom and entered the second-floor elevator with friends. Officers met with the group on the ground floor and observed Dixon stumbling to his knees as his friends helped him exit the arena, the affidavit claims.
Once outside, Dixon attempted to re-enter. According to the affidavit, he tried to pry open an arena door and used his legs to keep the door open; officers had to physically separate Dixon from the entrance door. With his friends urging him to leave, Dixon then became ‘combative’, repeatedly telling them that “he did not care” and that he “did not feel comfortable”, the affidavit claims.
Officers again warned Dixon that he is trespassed and needed to leave. Following the verbal warning, officers performed a ‘transport hold’ on him in an effort to “get him off the property”. According to the affidavit, Dixon then threw water on the officer.
As officers were escorting Dixon off of the property, he began to stumble, and his pants fell around his ankles.  “UCF was hosting Light Up UCF, and there were several children present. I assisted Dixon off the ground and pulled his pants up back around his waist.”, the officer wrote in his affidavit.
Police escorted Dixon to the corner of West Plaza drive and sat him on a planter. While seated, Dixon then “struck” the officer on his left shoulder with the “tips of his fingers”, according to the affidavit. The officer told Dixon “that he should not touch me” and that he was “trespassed and needed to leave”, the affidavit read.
Dixon’s friends stood by, urging him to leave with them, but he refused and remained seated on the planter. According to the affidavit, Dixon then “struck” the officer again with his right hand on the officer’s left shoulder. Police placed Dixon under arrest.
According to the affidavit, while under arrest, Dixon refused to get inside of a second officer’s patrol vehicle. “He laid down on the ground and had to be lifted into the officer’s patrol car”, the officer wrote. Once inside, Dixon refused to “sit up straight” and “just laid there”. The affidavit claims that Dixon stated “no” when an officer asked him to sit up, and officers had to physically maneuver him in an “upright sitting position”.
Dixon was transported to the Orange County Jail but was deferred to ORMC after jail staff stated they “did not want to process him until he was seen by a doctor”. The affidavit claims that upon arrival to the jail, “Dixon had so much to drink he had become more intoxicated, vomited on himself, and could not stand on his own”. Two officers were exposed to vomit while transporting Dixon, the affidavit read.
Dixon was later cleared from the hospital and booked into the Orange County Jail. He now faces charges of battery on a law enforcement officer and trespass of an occupied structure.
According to Online Sunshine, in Florida, battery is defined as someone who ‘actually and intentionally touches or strikes another person against the will of the other” or “you intentionally caused bodily harm to the victim”.  As a third-degree felony, battery on a law enforcement officer is punishable by up to five years in prison.
Dixon was released on a bond of $2,500 and has pleaded not guilty to both charges, according to court records. His hearing is scheduled for Feb. 21 at the Orange County Court House.
A Knight News request for comment from Dixon went unanswered. 



Photos: Terrance Coakley.
The University of Central Florida Men’s basketball team (UCF) took down in-state rivals, University of South Florida (USF), 78-65.
UCF started fast with a 13-0 lead that USF could never recover from. Tacko Fall led the way with 21 points, 9 rebounds, and 1 assist.
Terrell Allen of UCF following that performance with 14 points himself. In a time where March Madness is coming up, the Knights look to win their remaining conference games so they can enter the big tournament.
The Knights look to follow up their performance, on Saturday, Feb. 16 at 6 p.m. against head coach Penny Hardaway and his team the Memphis Tigers.



