On Tuesday evening, the candidates in the Student Government Association’s presidential election participated in a public debate to discuss their platforms and planned impacts on campus. 
Four pairs of on-campus leaders took the stage: Antoine Fields and Darbi Welbaum, Kyler Gray and Madeline Mills, Ashley Stewart and Darwins Olcima and lastly Emilia Kosonen and Karen Caudillo. One thing that each of these four groups could similarly agree on was the amount of transparency that SGA provides with the student population. 
All of the candidates are advocating for a presidency that involves developing a better trust between SGA and the student population as a whole. 
Each of the candidates have gained insight into student life through their campus involvement which includes but is not limited to; Knights for Animal Rights, UCF Orientation Team, and various Greek lettered organizations. 
Candidates Kosonen and Caudillo chose to highlight “Integrity” when asked which principle of the UCF Creed a SGA president should embody. 
“We want to make sure that the university is doing things with integrity,” Kosonen said.
Kosonen and Caudillo were referring to the university’s recent investigation into misallocation of funds for the construction of Trevor Colbourn Hall. However, this sentiment about moving truthfully is expressed by the other candidates, as they all make statements regarding plans to publicize the budgets of SGA if elected.
Candidates Grey and Murray did not leave any room for doubt regarding their sympathy and understanding of what students have to endure outside of SGA. Murray explained her financial struggles as a student of UCF. 
Candidates even said that they would find ways to connect with graduate students and those who attend the downtown campus of UCF. 
Candidates Ashley Stewart and Darwins Olcima are not alone in their sentiment of giving students “A seat at the table” in this election. These candidates said they will serve their academic and UCF communities wholeheartedly if they are elected into office. 
“Our mission is to create a united campus culture, that is inclusive, collaborative and diverse so that students and teachers can reach for the stars,” Gray said. 
Each of the candidates, if elected, said they want to work toward making UCF the best environment for all students and faculty.



A powerful Florida lawmaker said he is working on a five to ten-year shutdown plan of the University of Central Florida over the misuse of tens of millions in funds.
Florida Rep. Randy Fine spoke at a hearing as Chair of the House Higher Education Appropriations Subcommittee Wednesday afternoon when he suggested UCF deserved to be shut down for using E&G funds to build Trevor Colbourn Hall.
“I believed we are stewards of taxpayer funds and we are obligated not to fund organizations that refuse to steward that money in an appropriate way,” Fine said, citing issues with corporate governance.
“If this was a private business I owned, I’d shut it down.”
Fine suggested earlier in the meeting that lawmakers remove UCF’s submissions from a list of the university system’s highest priority building projects.
“It is my opinion […] that the conduct [regarding Trevor Colbourn Hall] was inexcusable,” Fine said.
State Rep. Carlos Guillermo Smith, who represents UCF in District 49, called the statement “reckless.”
“Stepped outta committee for a few mins only to discover Chair @VoteRandyFine opined about a 5-10 yr @UCF shutdown. I hope this is a joke,” Guillermo-Smith said on Twitter.
“The 69K students, 13K employees, 112K addl jobs + $8B economic impact depend on UCF. Reckless rhetoric w/many lives on the line isn’t funny.”
Board of Trustees Chairman Robert Garvey issued a statement shortly after the comment that was retweeted and supported by President Whittaker.
“UCF is an admired and appreciated institution that has transformed more than 280,000 lives and an entire region of the state over the past 50 years. To shut it down would cause irreparable harm to Florida’s future and to the tens of thousands of organizations, businesses, and institutions that depend on its talent, ideas, and innovation,” Garvey said.



When the University of Central Florida set out to find those responsible for the controversy surrounding Colbourn Hall, the four employees UCF moved to fire were first made an offer: resign voluntarily and keep their reputation intact or be fired with the option to fight the decision at a predetermination hearing.
That’s according to the husband of Lee Kernek, one of the employees UCF wants fired.
“I am not going to sit back and let them destroy my wife when she did not do anything wrong. She follows the rules,” Keith Kernek said. “And she will not be resigning.”
Knight News sat down with Keith Kernek after he said he and his wife effectively lost half of their household income because of UCF’s choice to make four “good, loyal, hardworking employees” the scapegoat of what he believes is a flawed Burby report.
“It hurts. It’s totally unjustified,” Keith said.
UCF made the resignation offer Friday morning, January 18, according to Kernek, with five business days to return with a decision. The termination was instead announced that day before the Board of Trustees met at 3 p.m.
Other employees UCF moved to terminate include Associate Vice President of Finance Tracy Clark, Associate Vice President of Debt & Revenue John Pittman, and University Controller Christy Tant.
And when news of the president’s punishment for the controversy was announced by BOT Chairman Marcos Marchena – a cut in an annual bonus – Kernek was not pleased with how the stakes for UCF’s biggest decision-maker fell monumentally short of the ‘unjustified’ punishment given to his wife and three others, he believes. 
“They are senior employees but not UCF’s decision-makers. They lose everything and Whittaker, a key decision-maker, gets a slap on the wrist?!,” said Keith. “Let me see if I understand this: the people who did not make the decision tried to hide the decision from those who made the decision? These four need to be hired back.”
Allegedly, one of the four employees, John Pittman, did not know of E&G funds (the money used inappropriately to build Trevor Colbourn Hall) until he saw their explanation in the newspaper. Pittman’s role at the university centered around managing debt rather than delegating money to new construction or managing E&G funds whatsoever, sources told Knight News.
In the termination notice, the university cited an investigative report created by private international law firm Bryan Cave and lead investigator Joseph Burby, limited in scope by the UCF Board of Trustees Chairman. 
Keith believes an unfair and suggestive interrogation by Joseph Burby took place when his wife Lee was interviewed. The account struck parallels with former UCF President John C. Hitt in which he described the Burby encounter via letter as “unexpectedly adversarial” while being “led to say some things that were not accurate.” Other sources further detailed an interview process that left employees in tears after speaking with Burby.
Knight News asked UCF if Burby wanted to comment in his own defense but UCF did not respond.
Marchena ultimately stepped down from his post as BOT Chairman in front of the Florida Board of Governors on January 31 in an effort to show sincerity in how he approached the matter, he said to the Board and on social media. 
The former Chairman’s decision did not win enough hearts to halt the investigation, however, but Kernek believed it to be a step in the right direction while fiercely maintaining his wife’s innocence. 
Knight News obtained a summary of Burby’s interview with Lee Kernek dated October 2018. It was marked confidential and only released after Knight News hired a lawyer to negotiate with UCF to provide the public record even though the university took the position that it didn’t have to supply the document.
The summary noted that “currently, Merck, President (Hitt) and Provost (Whittaker) review and decide on final CIP (Capital Improvement Plan).”
“It’s then presented to the BOT F&F Committee; if they approve, it goes to the BOT for approval; the plan is then submitted to the BOG and then the Legislature, who decides what projects to fund,” the attorney’s interview document states. And in bold letters: “[Lee] did not know that E&G funds couldn’t be used for capital projects until this year after State AG Audit.”
To the Board of Trustees, the results of the Burby report paint a different picture. Board of Trustees Chairman Robert Garvey maintains that the four senior leaders employed deception to ensure that the funds would be used for the project at hand. The report alleges that the employees, in one part or another, began to use the funds without fully understanding their limits, but later learned their inappropriate use and moved forward anyway.
“The Board of Trustees understands the gravity of this violation of statutory requirements and the public’s trust. The misuse of state funds is never acceptable. That’s why the board committed to a thorough, transparent and independent investigation. That investigation found that Bill Merck, the former CFO, and senior leaders of his team purposefully took inappropriate and deceptive actions,” said Garvey’s comment, written by Vice President Grant Heston, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
“President Whittaker said from the beginning that when he was provost he never knew and was never told that Merck’s actions were wrong and inappropriate. The Bryan Cave independent investigation confirmed that.”
“President Whittaker continues to have my full support, particularly in terms of the decisive action he is taking to fix these problems. His leadership has been, and will continue to be, essential to UCF. Through the aggressive actions he has taken, President Whittaker is demonstrating his commitment and ability to deal with this awful situation and return UCF to the high regard it has earned over the years.”
Keith refuted the BOT’s response to the report as a cover to save the Board’s reputation as the House of Representatives continues their independent investigation.
“How did the guy who was the Chair of the University Budget Committee, the guy who managed a complex budget, suddenly overnight, when the Audit Report was announced, now know nothing?”
Clark, Kernek, Pittman, and Tant, among ten others – including President Whittaker and Hitt – have been subpoenaed before the House of Representatives to testify in their ongoing investigation. 
Stay tuned with Knight News for coverage of the events.
 



