The UCF Knights honored their senior class Friday with an evening to remember — delivering a lopsided defeat to their War on I4 conference rivals, the USF Bulls.
UCF torched USF 34 – 7, securing their third consecutive win over the Bulls and extending their at-home win streak to 21 games. 
The Knights improve now to 5-6 against the Bulls and end their regular season 9-3 overall and 6-2 in American Athletic Conference play.
UCF’s offense was led early by senior running back Adrian Killins Jr. 
On his final appearance in the Bounce House, Killins Jr. collected a season-high 115 yards on 14 carries including a 35-yard touchdown in the second quarter.
He left Spectrum Stadium like royalty.
UCF defeats USF! Final score: 34 – 7Senior running back Adrian Killins Jr. is carried off like a king in his final home game by quarterback Darriel Mack Jr. pic.twitter.com/v4pLFjEK7C
Killins Jr. ended his final game at Spectrum Stadium with 34 career touchdowns and 2,459 career rushing yards. 
“I can’t believe I’m a senior now, that was my last game at the Bounce House,” Killins Jr. said after the game. “The moments I’ve cherished out there with my brothers, I’m never going to forget it.”
Killins Jr. career performance was complemented by junior wide receiver Gabriel Davis. 
Davis reeled in two touchdown passes for 106 yards against the Bulls, bringing his season total to 12 touchdown receptions and 1,286 receiving yards — surpassing the previously set program single-season record of 1,237 receiving yards set in 2002.
“You build relationships, you build bonds on this team,” Davis said after the game. “To see the guys go off and do their own thing now, it’s definitely an emotional time of night.”
UCF freshman quarterback Dillon Gabriel completed 23-of-39 on 270 yards and two touchdowns in the 34-7 victory. The freshman marked his 27th passing touchdown of the season.
The UCF defense also impressed as they shutout USF in three quarters and only allowed the Bulls to put points on the board in the third quarter. 
UCF head coach Josh Heupel praised the team for its resilience after the game and emphasized the meaning of the win. 
“Did we reach every goal we wanted to as a program? No,” Heupel said after the game. “That’s football, that’s life. Our kids continued to fight, continued to grow … There were three days where we weren’t good enough, three close ball games.”
Heupel said the team has grown and continues to grow, and said that will be will be important going into bowl season.



