When the University of Central Florida was first in the spotlight of a state auditor’s report exposing tens of millions in improper funding surrounding Colbourn Hall, a promise was made to one employee: take the blame for the incident and it will all go away.
Knight News sat down with the employee, former Chief Financial Officer and Vice President William Merck – and his lawyer Charles Greene – in early January. They brought to light closed-door interactions between officials, including another promise to Merck: show up to a state meeting on Colbourn Hall and be fired.
The former CFO saw an opportunity to speak at a Board of Governor’s meeting on September 13 and defend UCF’s decision to raze Colbourn Hall while moving its students and faculty to a new building, according to both the interview with Merck and in a letter from Greene to the Board of Governors. Colbourn Hall, they allege, posed significant health and safety concerns to all individuals who passed through the building after four engineering reports were completed and given to administrators.
But before the meeting, according to Merck, the second promise came when he asked to attend the Sarasota meeting along with UCF President Dale Whittaker and Board of Trustees Chairman Marcos Marchena. Merck would be informed by the UCF General Counsel Scott Cole that President Whittaker did not want him at the meeting, and if Merck were to show up in front of the Board of Governors, it would be viewed as an act of insubordination and a cause to be terminated.
Greene referenced the interaction in a letter to the Board of Governors while criticizing the scope and method of the private investigation led by Joey Burby which was hired by, and at the direction of, the Board of Trustees.
“The Burby Report goes out of its way to criticize Bill Merck because he did not consent to an ‘interview’ by Burby […],” Greene said in the four-page letter.
“What Burby does not report is that Mr. Merck asked if he could appear at the BOG meeting on September 13, 2018, to explain the TCH funding decision and was advised that such an appearance would be viewed as an act of insubordination, which would be cause for termination of his employment.” 
At the BOG meeting, Whittaker and Marchena pointed to Merck as if the sole person responsible for the Colbourn Hall decision and failed to defend UCF in front of the state university system, according to Merck and Greene. Whittaker, they argue, sought to absolve himself of fault by blaming Merck and repeatedly reiterating to media and lawmakers Merck’s decision to resign, despite the promise in private that his reputation would be protected if he resigned.
It’s unclear whether the ultimatum presented by UCF’s general counsel could violate the vice president’s first amendment rights, if true. This area of law is complicated and often decided case-by-case.
Ultimately, Merck did not show up to the meeting.
Instead, a “cover up” of documents, audiotapes, and other public records ensued while Merck continued to be the scapegoat amidst one of UCF’s largest controversies, according to Greene’s letter to the BOG. This sentiment was shared by another former employee who UCF once called its ‘Community Hero:’ president emeritus John C. Hitt, who stated that Merck was unfairly treated and “pilloried in the press.”
Knight News received no reply after emailing Cole Tuesday night for comment on the allegations. Burby has ignored Knight News’ requests for public records created during the investigation of UCF.
The Board of Governors is set to address UCF’s Colbourn Hall controversy Thursday in a meeting at FIU. Florida House leaders appeared unpleased by the scope of the investigation and its conclusions.
Highlights from a Florida House Committee discussing whether UCF’s investigation into the Colbourn Hall Controversy was sufficient: 




A UCF student was arrested Tuesday and charged with two felonies after he was found to have a fully automatic AR-15 assault rifle in his vehicle on campus residence, police said.
Following an anonymous tip UCF Police arrested Max Bennett Chambers, 19, a sophomore mechanical engineering major and charged him with possession of an AR-15 assault rifle and a bump fire stock, UCFPD Chief Carl Metzger said in a news conference Wednesday.
“At no time did Chambers express any threat to the University community,” Metzger said. “We believe he’s an enthusiast who put his interest in firearms above complying with the law.”
Chambers was booked into the Orange County Jail Tuesday and held on $5,150 bond. He posted bond at 1:16 p.m. Wednesday, according to the jail.
Chambers was trespassed from campus and given an interim suspension, but will get a chance to have a hearing and the university will make a final decision accordingly, Metzger said.
Florida Department of Law Enforcement test fired the weapon and confirmed that it was fully automatic.
In addition to the AR-15, Chambers had three Drop-in auto sear’s devices, used to convert weapons to be fully automatic, knives that violated student policy, and several other weapons that were legal, Metzger said.
In spring 2018 Chambers was reported to UCFPD who found a part of a firearm in his possession, which was not illegal but violated campus policy, according to a UCF press release.
“At that time UCF’s policy and state laws regarding firearms were explained very clearly to him,” Metzger said. “He knowingly and flagrantly disregarded the law and that is unacceptable to us.”
The Anonymous tip came through Crimeline, a service that lets people report crimes anonymously and receive rewards for information they provide. Through a program called Gun Bounty, Crimeline offers anyone who gives a tip that leads to an arrest, a firearm being seized and firearms charges, a $1000 reward in addition to any other reward, said Barb Bergin, executive director of Crimeline .
Metzger reiterated the importance of being vigilant and reporting any suspicious activity on campus.
“We always preach, if you see something say something and we’ll do something,” Metzger said. “And in this case it all worked … Don’t ignore that gut feeling that something is wrong.”



