UCF takes steps to ensure students are ready for Hurricane Dorian as the forecast changes. 
The university suspended all activities at all campuses through Tuesday, Sept. 3, including online courses, and any assignments due during that time will be delayed accordingly. The campus may extend this closure depending on the situation, according to UCF’s hurricane announcement. 
“UCF will only reopen when it is safe to do so, and decisions also will consider other factors, such as damage and power loss throughout the region,” UCF Spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said in an email. 
UCF recommends that students living on campus find a safe off campus location. But for those who cannot relocate they will be able to ride out the storm as follows:
Students riding out the storm are to park in Garage A, their vehicles will not be allowed to leave the garage until a campus “all clear” is given, according to the UCF statement. Students living in on-campus housing will be allowed to leave their vehicles according to their permit. 
Garage I will be available for other students, faculty and staff with valid UCF parking permits to keep their vehicles throughout the storm. They can bring their vehicles, which will not be allowed to leave until the campus reopens, starting Friday at 5 p.m. through noon Sunday.
All other vehicles are not allowed to park at UCF and will be towed away. For more information visit UCF’s FAQ page.
Make sure you’re signed up for campus alerts and are following safety instructions. Knight News will continue to bring you the latest news on Hurricane Dorian and campus updates. 



Students may experience delays with their financial aid disbursement and refund as a ripple effect of Hurricane Dorian’s impact, UCF announced Friday evening. 
“The Offices of Student Financial Assistance & Student Account Services are monitoring Hurricane Dorian & working diligently to minimize any negative impact on our financial aid disbursement and refund processes,” UCF announced. “As soon as the university reopens, the offices will resume normal business processes.”
All campus operations ceased on Friday at 5:00 p.m. in preparation for the storm’s landfall and are scheduled to remain closed through at least Tuesday, Sept. 3, according to a press release.
The university said that various factors such as regional storm damage, power loss, and overall safety will be considered in determining an appropriate return date. 
 



The UCF Knights left the Florida A&M Rattlers bruised and battered Thursday night, scoring an unanswered 62 points in their season kickoff game in Spectrum Stadium.
The Rattlers could not find an answer to stop, or even slow, the Knights’ high-tempo offensive firepower. UCF went on to finish the night with 694 total yards — 356 of which came through the air. 
FAMU’s troubles continued on the other side of the football. The Rattlers’ offense closed out the night less than 100 yards — 92 yards through the air and four on the ground — and averaged 0.2 yards per rush.
Seemingly unable to move the football, FAMU earned only 8 first downs.  
UCF’s runaway victory was led by redshirt-senior quarterback Brandon Wimbush. The Notre Dame transfer finished the night 12-for-23, on 168 yards and two touchdowns. 
Throughout the game, Wimbush shared snaps with freshman Dillon Gabriel and redshirt freshman Quadry Jones — both of whom finished with touchdowns under their name.
While each QB stood tall on their own, it was Gabriel’s performance which made clear that the starting quarterback battle is far from over. He finished 9-for-13 on 127 yards with three touchdown passes to three different receivers.
The Knights ground attack proved just as potent, as the Knights finished with 338 rushing yards.
Senior running back Adrian Killins was UCF’s ground attack leader, closing the game with 108 yards. ‘AK’  averaged 7.6 yards per carry and rushed for a touchdown in the second quarter — the 27th of his career. 
Killins is now ranked for the sixth most touchdowns in UCF history.
UCF was also able to put to rest their nation-leading turnover streak. Second only to Indiana with 18 consecutive games with a turnover, UCF’s 32 game streak is behind them as they move forward in the 2019 season.
The Knights victory lap was cut short late into the third quarter when redshirt junior cornerback Brandon Moore suffered an apparent leg injury while being tackled out of bounds. Medical staff attended to Moore for several minutes before bracing his leg and carting him off the field.
UCF defensive back Brandon Moore waves to the crowd as he is taken off the field after suffering a leg injury during the season opener against the Florida A&M Rattlers. pic.twitter.com/JMnsp9FmAV
While being transported by on-field medical staff, Moore waved back to the crowd as they applauded him off of the field.
“Players and coaches need to get around him, there’s not a better kid in our program,” said UCF Head Coach Josh Heupel during the postgame press conference. 
UCF will now focus on their matchup against Florida Atlantic University on Sep. 7, at 7:00 p.m.



