As UCF investigates associate psychology professor Charles Negy, two students are taking action and asking for the community to weigh in before they meet with the office investigating the professor. 
Jade Matthies and Alissa Carmi are the individuals behind the Google Form that asks students who have taken a class with Negy to share their experiences. Matthies and Carmi said they persisted until the office investigating Negy committed to meeting with them over Zoom on Friday.
“If you have experienced abusive or discriminatory behavior at UCF by Dr. Charles Negy, share your experience and tell your story here,” the description of the Google Form reads. “We are 2 UCF students with a Zoom meeting scheduled with the office investigating Charles Negy and want to make sure your voices + stories are heard.”
The Google Form can be accessed here. 
Carmi and Matthies said they have both taken classes with Negy and said they want to ensure all voices are heard. 
Carmi, a senior interdisciplinary studies major with areas of concentration in health sciences, and social and behavioral sciences, said she hopes to be a community health worker. The 23-year-old said she wants to work with client populations of diverse cultural and racial communities in order to minimize the current health disparities in our country. 
Matthies, who just graduated from the university, earned her degree in interdisciplinary studies with a concentration in communication, and social and behavioral sciences. The 23-year-old said her goal is to work for a nonprofit where she can serve others and fight injustice. 
Matthies said students can help by sharing their experiences with Negy using the form — she said both she and Carmi will organize, and communicate all responses during the Zoom meeting on Friday.
“After seeing how many people have been negatively affected by Dr. Charles Negy’s discriminatory and inflammatory behavior in class as well as his hateful and ignorant words, I knew I had to take action for my fellow Knights,” Matthies said. “I contacted every department I could reach and persisted until I got a face-to-face [Zoom] meeting.”
When asked why she is asking students for help, Matthies listed the pillars of the UCF Creed.
“I believe that our University is at it’s best when we are united as a community that celebrates our diversity and embraces inclusion,” she said. “When someone within the UCF family doesn’t embody that, accountability and action must be taken so that all Knights feel safe and welcome on our campus and in our classrooms.”
Last week, UCF said in a news release that no employee may mistreat or discriminate against students in their classes or in any other setting, and no student should fear they will be treated differently because of others’ personal biases.
“We have been receiving complaints alleging bias and unfair treatment in Dr. Negy’s classroom and have launched an inquiry to gather more information,” the statement reads. 
The university encourages members of the community to report concerns to UCF’s IntegrityLine, which also takes anonymous complaints, at www.ucfintegrityline.com or 855-877-6049.
Edit: This article has been updated to reflect the meeting Jade Matthies and Alissa Carmi have with the office investigating the professor has been moved from Wednesday to Friday.



Three members of the UCF Football team have tested positive for the coronavirus, UCF Athletics said on Tuesday. 
Members of the team were brought back to campus starting the first week in June after the NCAA voted to allow voluntary athletic activity. 
Two additional phases of student-athletes from the football team are expected to return to campus — one phase of about 20 individuals later in June, and a third phase at an undetermined date after that, UCF Athletics said on May 29.
“The three individuals who tested positive are in isolation for two weeks,” the release states. “The isolated student-athletes are monitored daily via wellness checks, and they receive contactless meal deliveries. The cases have been reported to the Orange County Health Department.”
“Our top priority is to ensure the health and safety of our student-athletes,” UCF Director of Athletics Danny White said. “We will do everything necessary to support the student-athletes under our care on campus.
The release states contact tracing is underway and the Florida Department of Health is providing additional direction on follow-up for those in close contact.
“Our plan and protocols are working,” White said. “We will continue working through our medical processes, as this initial testing phase allows us to respond appropriately.”
The student-athletes are under the care of the UCF Athletics COVID-19 medical team led by Dr. Michael Jablonski, the medical director for UCF Athletics and president of Jewett Orthopaedic Clinic.
UCF Director of Sports Medicine Mary Vander Heiden — who serves as the football team’s head athletic trainer and UCF’s representative on the the American Athletic Conference’s COVID-19 Medical Advisory Group — will assist Jablonski in addressing any medical concerns, along with the support of the Orlando Health specialists in public health and infectious disease and the full UCF Sports Medicine staff, the release states. 
“These results are not surprising given the number of tests that were performed and the different areas and regions these players are coming from,” Jablonski said in the release. “It confirms the importance of the protocols that have been established through the work of multiple medical experts.” 
UCF Athletics is working closely with the student-athletes and the university’s medical staff to monitor the individuals’ health and determine the best treatment, the release states. 
The release states members on the team who tested positive for COVID-19 will not participate in any UCF workouts until the quarantine period expires and are retested and get a negative result.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 



