Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings and Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer said they intend to follow the stay-at-home order issued by Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis in a press conference Wednesday.
The two mayors previously issued a stay-at-home order for Orange County residents that went into effect last week. 
The order is aimed to limit the spread of COVID-19 and will go into effect Friday at 12:01 a.m. and will remain in effect until April 30.
During Wednesday’s press conference, Demings introduced a map showing the plotted locations of positive COVID-19 cases by zip code. 
“There are 53 zip codes in Orange County, and on [the heat map], we have 38 zip codes that have at least one case within the zip code,” Demings said during the press conference.
Although UCF’s zip code is not among one of the most affected zip codes, Demings said he wants residents to know that the heat map can change daily, and all shaded areas are being affected.
“If your area does not look like a hot zone, don’t be deceived or misled that you don’t have to stay apart in order to stop this virus,” Demings said.
Florida reported 7,773 cases in the Wednesday evening update. By Thursday evening, an additional 1,235 cases were reported bringing the state total to 9,008 positive cases, according to the Florida Department of Health’s website. 
Orange County had 458 cases of COVID-19, and Seminole County had 128 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, according to Florida’s COVID-19 Data and Surveillance Dashboard.
By Thursday evening, Orange County reported 541 cases to the Department of Health — the county also reported five deaths and 77 hospitalizations, according to the dashboard.
Seminole County — which reported 128 cases on Wednesday evening — saw 17 new positive cases, totaling 145 positive cases in the county. 
“Orlando, we are strong,” Dyer said at the press conference. “Together as a community, we’ve experienced multiple hurricanes that had devastating effects, the tragedy at the Pulse nightclub which took 49 lives, and now the greatest pandemic we’ve seen in our lifetime.”
Demings and Dyer had previously announced a stay-at-home order for all of Orange County on March 24. The order went into effect on March 26 at 11 p.m.
“We’re pleased that the governor has now acted to extend a stay-at-home order to the rest of the state,” Dyer said. “We believe we acted timely and have saved lives just by taking that action last week.”
Director of Orange County Health Department Dr. Raul Pino said people should leave their homes only when absolutely necessary.
Pino listed seven cities in Orange County and the number of cases in each, as of Wednesday: 
On Thursday, the same cities reported: 
“Asymptomatic people are playing a role in the transmission of the disease more than we initially thought,” Pino said at the press conference.
UPDATE: @GovRonDesantis’ Executive Order No. 20-91 will go into effect at 12:01 a.m. Friday, April 3, 2020. This will supersede @OrangeCoFl’s Emergency Executive Order No. 2020-05. Residents are asked to reach out to the Governor's Office for questions related to the Order. pic.twitter.com/3WHYLf7t1C
DeSantis issued a statewide stay-at-home order Wednesday afternoon. While many Florida counties — including Orange County and Osceola County — had opted to issue a countywide stay-at-home order at the end of March, DeSantis expanded the order from county level to state level.
“I’m gonna be doing an executive order today directing all Floridians to limit movements and personal interactions outside the home to only the necessary to obtain or provide essential services or conduct essential activities,” DeSantis said in a Wednesday press conference.



UCF put a hold on hiring faculty and staff due to the circumstances of the coronavirus on Tuesday. The university said the freeze on hiring is to ensure campus safety and to prepare for the financial challenges of the pandemic while keeping the university open and operational,  according to a statement.
“Our primary focus is to ensure the health and safety of our students, faculty and staff while keeping the university open and operational,” the Thursday statement reads.
The hiring freeze comes 11 days after the UCF Board of Trustees unanimously voted Alexander Cartwright as UCF’s sixth president during a process that was completed mostly virtually since mid-March. Cartwright’s name did not become public until March 18. 
His contract is set to begin on April 13.  
The freeze directly affects education and general and auxiliary funded faculty, staff, administrative and professional appointments, and other personal services positions will be affected. It also applies to Direct Support Organizations like UCF Athletics.
“This global pandemic will have financial implications for our university, and it is important that we begin preparing for financial challenges,” the statement reads.
According to the statement, the following vacancies may continue to be posted and filled:
All impacted job openings were set to be removed from the Careers at UCF website, the Thursday statement states.
All remaining job openings on the site at the time of publication appear to fit the criteria of essential function and the exception to UCF’s hiring freeze. 
The statement lists the reasons for exceptions to the hiring freeze to include positions critical to:
Departments can request exceptions based on a critical need, and more information can be found at the UCF Human Resources’ website.
In an attached “Frequently Asked Questions” document, the hiring freeze is said to be in effect until further notice and until UCF’s Human Resources informs the community it is no longer is in effect. 
Individuals with additional questions regarding the hiring freeze should contact Director of Talent Acquisition Renée Grigor at Renee.Grigor@ucf.edu, or check the UCF Human Resources’ website.



UCF’s Student Legal Services will be on Zoom Thursday at 12 p.m. to address questions students may have about leases.
UCF attorney Jaime Owen said the event is the first of its kind and is how the office is handling the university’s transition to remote instruction. 
The link to the Zoom can be found here.
She said Student Legal Services heard the UCF community and wanted to answer any questions,  provide resources, and hopefully supply options for students who seem stuck in leases with off-campus housing communities.
Although UCF has no control over off-campus housing properties, Owen said helping students understand what resources and options are available to them is essential.
Owen said that there will be a chat function available during the video conference for students to be able to ask the questions that are specific to their housing situation.
We know you have questions regarding your leases! Join us tomorrow at noon to leasing in the time of COVID-19 and more! Zoom: https://t.co/nIHmCilKYX pic.twitter.com/AwIuuuea85
“Were trying to get good info out to you guys,” Owen said. “We’re trying to put the ball in your court.”
Owen said Student Legal Services is seeing if this is an effective method to reach out to students — she said it is new and a format different than the office normally utilizes. 
“The mission of Student Legal Services is to help students resolve legal problems that may adversely affect their well-being and interfere with their academic and professional goals,”  its website states. 
The next event will be held on April 9 and discuss criminal and traffic issues. 
On April 16 the topic of discussion will be credit, and on April 23 the topic will be auto insurance. All Zoom events start at 12 p.m.
While the university is limited to essential faculty and staff during the coronavirus pandemic, Student Legal Services is still able to conduct phone appointments, according to its website. 
Student Legal Services can be reached at StuLegal@UCF.edu or 407-823-2538. 



