UCF backup quarterback Darriel Mack, Jr. took to social media to announce he has entered his name into the transfer portal, but said this is just the start of his journey.
Mack, Jr. was one of 10 players to opt out of the 2020-21 football season due to COVID-19 uncertainties. 
Earlier this season, the NCAA DI Council voted to allow student-athletes to have both an additional season of competition and an additional year in which to complete it.
The redshirt junior tweeted Wednesday that he is immediately eligible as a graduate transfer and has two years left to play. 
I Love You Knight Nation 🖤 pic.twitter.com/Xcm59PMWYe
“These past three years of my life have been nothing short of the best moments in my life,” Mack, Jr. wrote in a Wednesday statement posted to social media. “I have built life long relationship with my teammates and coaches.”
Mack, Jr. thanked God, his coaches, and the UCF fan base in the statement. He also showed appreciation for his on-and-off the field brothers for the safe haven and unbreakable bond he said he has developed with them.
“With that being said, my family and I have made the decision that it is best that I enter the transfer portal,” Mack, Jr. said. “I will be immediately able to play with two years left of eligibility. Thank you for everyone that has supported me on this journey …”
After spending his true freshman year with the scout team, Mack, Jr. played in 10 games and started in three during his redshirt freshman year. 
He took over the starting role when he came on in relief for quarterback McKenzie Milton after a devastating knee injury during the second quarter of the game against the USF Bulls in November 2018.
Mack, Jr. led the Knights to defeat the Bulls and finished the game carrying the ball 10 times for 51 yards, while completing 5-of-14 passes for 81 yards. 
He finished his redshirt freshman season throwing 40-of-70 through the air for 619 yards and 3 touchdowns, and running for 337 yards and six touchdowns on 69 carries.
He was named the Most Outstanding Player of the 2018 American Athletic Conference Championship Game, in which he led the Knights to defeat the Memphis Tigers to secure a New Year’s Six Bowl game. 
Despite the LSU Tigers defeating the Knights 40-32 during the PlayStation Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 1, 2019  — ending the 25-game winning streak — Mack, Jr. led the team through adversity and showed the nation a Group of Five team can compete. 
Before the 2019-2020 fall camp, Mack, Jr. broke his ankle and during an off-the-field activity and was not able to start the season with the rest of the team. The then redshirt sophomore was cleared to play in September 2019, and appeared in nine games as the backup QB. 
Mack, Jr. finished the season completing 19-of-31 passes for 219 yards and four touchdowns, while also rushing 41 times for 179 yards and three touchdowns. 
As a redshirt sophomore, Mack, Jr. appeared in nine games as the backup quarterback where he completed 19-of-31 throws for 219 yards and four touchdowns while also rushing 41 times for 179 yards and three touchdowns. 
Mack, Jr. concluded his Wednesday statement with the hashtags #GKCO and #AlwaysAKnight.
“I Love You Knight Nation,” Mack, Jr. wrote in his statement posted on Twitter. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



Tropical Storm Eta is on a fluctuating path toward Florida and is likely to bring heavy rains and gusty winds across the west-central parts of the Sunshine State.
The National Hurricane Center reported in a 1 p.m. update that the area including west and central Florida is expected to see 2 in to 4 in of rain through Friday, with a maximum of 6 inches of rain.
Tropical Storm #Eta Advisory 45A: Air Force Reserve Reconnaissance Aircraft Indicates That Eta Has Weakened Back to a Tropical Storm. Heavy Rains and Gusty Winds Occurring Across West-Central Florida. https://t.co/VqHn0u1vgc
The NHC reports Tropical Storm Eta’s maximum sustained winds have decreased to 70 mph as it continues to move east and prepares to make landfall around the Big Bend area in Florida Thursday morning, according to the 1 p.m. update. 
A hurricane watch is in effect for Anna Maria Island to Yankeetown, Florida, while a tropical storm warning is in effect for Dry Tortugas, and Bonita Beach to Suwannee River, Florida. 
Here is the latest storm surge forecast for the west coast of Florida. A Storm Surge Warning has been issued for the Florida west coast from Suwannee River to Bonita Beach, including Tampa Bay and Charlotte Harbor. More info: https://t.co/tW4KeFW0gB pic.twitter.com/zNHE43zl4A
A storm surge warning is in effect for Bonita Beach to Suwanee River, including Tampa Bay and Charlotte Harbor, Florida. 
A storm surge watch is in effect for Steinhatchee River to Suwannee River, Florida, while a tropical storm watch is in effect for the area north of the Suwannee River to Aucilla River, Florida. 
The tropical storm is forecasted to make landfall around Homosassa Springs, Florida, Thursday morning. 
Forecasters reported in the 1 p.m. update that models have shifted the storm’s impact slightly more east, and have not ruled out the possibility of a landfall anywhere near Tampa, Florida.
“Slow weakening is expected as Eta approaches the west coast of Florida tonight, followed by rapid weakening after landfall occurs on Thursday,” the 1 p.m. update reads.
As Tropical Storm Eta continues to creep towards Florida, both its path and intensity are still unknown and have changed drastically within the last 48 hours. 
After making landfall in Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane on Tuesday, it weakened to a tropical depression before reentering the waters of the Caribbean Sea. During the 10 a.m. update Wednesday morning, just hours before publication, the tropical storm was classified as Hurricane Eta. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



