The UCF Knights opened their season Saturday with a 49-21 win over the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets in Atlanta, and UCF head coach Josh Heupel said he’s proud of the team for staying the course and growing together.
“They didn’t know until 9:30 this morning for sure if we were going to play,” Heupel said after the game. “It’s a group where the brotherhood is real, inside of our locker room — they do love one another, man.” 
UCF sophomore quarterback Dillon Gabriel threw for 417 yards and four touchdowns, while leading the Knights to their fifth straight win in a season opener and ending Georgia Tech’s 13-game home opener winning streak.
Georgia Tech scored within the first minute of the game, but the Knights quickly responded and by the end of the second quarter brought the lead to 28-14 over the Yellow Jackets. 
UCF scored through the air on a pass from QB Dillon Gabriel to WR Tre Nixon. With 11:58 in the 1Q, UCF ties the score at 7-7.
A 9-yard pass from Georgia Tech freshman quarterback Jeff Sims to freshman running back Jahmyr Gibbs would shrink the deficit just before halftime.
Heupel said he’s proud of the team for going out and competing the way they did.
“I’m really proud of them for staying the course together and growing together over the last six months,” Heupel said. “They’ve made me, they’ve made our coaching staff better — we’re closer, we’re better as a football family than we were when we were away from each other in early March.”
UCF junior linebacker Eriq Gilyard recorded his first career forced fumble during the game and led the way with 10 total tackles and two tackles for loss, while senior defensive back Richie Grant recovered the second fumble of his career and had nine tackles.
Georgia Tech did not make the field goal attempt — the Knights are tied with the Yellow Jackets 7-7 with 14:46 left in the 2Q. pic.twitter.com/MvHfoQg87J
Freshman defensive lineman Josh Celiscar made an impact in his first game, forcing and recovering a fumble in the first quarter. The freshman also recorded the first interception of his career.
UCF senior defensive lineman Noah Hancock recorded his first career blocked kick during a second-quarter field goal attempt by the Yellow Jackets.
The Knights will hit the road again to face the ECU Pirates in North Carolina on Sept. 26 before the first game at home against the Tulsa Golden Hurricane on Oct. 3. 
This story will be updated with quotes from the press conference. Check back for updates.



