UCF is considering allowing students to opt into a pass or fail grading system, but public records from a Friday teleconference indicate the university is concerned and there is a chance it will not act on the pandemic grading system.
Knight News obtained a Board of Governors document outlining each university’s stance on the pass or fail grading system. Universities weighed in on creating a special pandemic grading system in light of coronavirus. 
Board of Governors spokeswoman Renee Fargason said the provost from each of the 12 schools in the State University System was sent the list in advance of a conference call to discuss the issue.
Knight News obtained the public record of the email communication between Board of Governors Chancellor Marshall M. Criser III and the provosts on the Friday call, although the exact provosts are not known at this time. 
Criser thanked the provosts in the Friday email for an informative discussion before asking them not to relay information to their respective schools until Wednesday. The Board of Governors is scheduled to hold its regular meeting on Wednesday via teleconference. 
“It is clear that each university is engaged in developing strategies to assist our students in managing their academic load during a time of extraordinary transition,” Criser said in the email obtained by Knight News. “With that said, I recognize that communication with students and other stakeholders is something where coordination facilitates answers rather than questions…” 
The Florida Board of Governors meets Wednesday where the topic is likely to be further discussed. In the conclusion of his email to the provosts, Criser asked the provosts to hold their “university’s individual strategies” until Wednesday.
“By that time, each university should be ready to articulate its plan,” Criser said in the conclusion of his Friday email. “In addition, our office will prepare a general statement that recognizes the importance of student engagement in the process.”
It is not clear what student engagement the chancellor of the Board of Governors is referring to. 
In the Chancellor’s Report to the Board of Governors for Wednesday’s meeting, Criser lists the proposed board action as “for information.” 
In the section used to describe the authority for the action, Criser lists Article IX, Section 7 — the entire section of Florida’s Constitution on the State University System. This is noted throughout other agendas for Wednesday’s meeting. 
“The Board of Governors is committed to promoting transparency and public input regarding the governance of the State University System,”  the website states. 
According to the Operating Procedures, the chancellor “shall keep the Board informed of all issues affecting or that may affect the System and make such recommendations to the Board for the development of any new regulations, policies or guidelines and any amendments to existing regulations, policies or guidelines.”
He is also responsible for the prompt and effective execution of all Board of Governors’ regulations, policies, guidelines and resolutions, the Operating Procedures reads.
UCF’s President-elect Alexander Cartwright’s appointment as the sixth president of UCF is up for confirmation during Wednesday’s meeting. 
Cartwright’s $600,000 contract was unanimously approved by the UCF Board of Trustees on Tuesday.



More than 15,000 individuals have signed a petition voicing to UCF they support the option of a pandemic grading scale. 
The petition proposes the optional pass, fail grading system could be used in place of passing or failing letter grade in a traditional grading scale.
“Students, at the end of the semester, can choose to keep their letter grades on their transcript, or they can choose a grade of pass or fail that would still count towards their degree completion,” the petition proposes in the description.  
The petition — created on March 17 — was started after the Florida Board of Governors released a statement advising state universities to transition to remote learning six days prior.
#BREAKING: State universities with students who are currently on spring break or about to be on break should direct their students to NOT return to campus for at least 2 weeks following the conclusion of spring break, per @FLBOG. pic.twitter.com/yggeySSvNG
UCF does not currently have a grading scale like this — according to the Academic Regulations and Procedures website, UCF has the option of “satisfactory.”
As of March 22, the petition’s initial goal of 7,500 signatures increased automatically on Change.org to 15,000. On Tuesday, 15,000 turned into 25,000.
Ilana Gomez Diaz, sophomore biomedical sciences major and creator of the petition, said the petition asks UCF to understand students have other things to worry about besides receiving letter grades of A’s.
“I know a lot of students have lost jobs because of [COVID-19] and it’s just stressful for a lot of people right now,” she said. “Online is not the same type of atmosphere to when you’re in person.” 
The petition proposes that students be given the option to choose to keep their letter grades on their transcripts or to use the pass or fail option toward their degree completion.
Currently, out-of-state universities like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon have converted to pandemic grading amidst COVID-19 university closures. 
Students at the University of Florida have created a petition asking their university to do the same. 
UF Vice President for Student Affairs D’Andra Mull said in a Friday news release that the university will soon announce details in adjustments to the S/U Grade option policy to allow students additional flexibility.
According to UF’s application for S/U Grade Option, the S/U Option allows a student to take a course and receive a grade of S to imply satisfactory or U or unsatisfactory, if the application is submitted by the published deadline. 
The grade becomes part of the student’s record but does not count in the grade point average as computed by the University of Florida.
For Yamina Sfiat, junior criminal justice and political science double major, the transition to remote learning at UCF is something she’s worried about due to her living situation, she said. 
“I’ve never done online classes before,” Sfiat said, “I have to be on campus for me to focus. We have tens of thousands of students that go to this campus — we don’t know the situation in every family environment or if they even have one.” 
The transition to remote learning — which officially began March 16 and removed all campus-based courses in hopes of stopping the spread of the virus — brings the previously reported online total enrollment of just over 5,600 students to the entire student population, according to the 2019-20 UCF Fast Facts. 
The option of a pass or fail grade is said to benefit students who will no longer have access to programs like the Student Academic Resource Center and Supplemental Instruction sessions in-person, the petition said. 
SARC — which provides academic support programs, including supplemental instruction, tutoring, academic advising, and other services — is able to provide services online, according to its website. 
“The [9%] of students who live out of state or internationally will now have to deal with time change, and for some, classes might be inconveniently held in the middle of the night which will also affect their academic performance,” the petition states.
UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin previously told Knight News in an email on Saturday that the university asks for continued patience as situations rapidly evolve.
“As decisions are made at the state and university levels, we’re regularly sharing that information with our campus community,” Gilmartin said in a Saturday email. “When we have more information to share, we will.”
It is expected the official direction will come from the Board of Governors, the body which oversees the 12 schools in the State University System. 
“We, as students, thank UCF for prioritizing our health over all else,” the petition reads. “[We] hope that you will take into consideration this petition.”



The UCF Board of Trustees unanimously approved President-elect Alexander Cartwright’s $600,000 contract Tuesday during a teleconference meeting. 
Against the voices of 30 UCF Student Government Senators and 40 Faculty Senators — who asked for a delay of the search — Cartwright was named UCF’s sixth president on Friday. 
He has one more stop with the Board of Governors before he can officially call himself the sixth president of UCF — if approved by the Board of Governors.
As UCF’s president, he will be entitled to an additional 20% of base salary as deferred compensation as well an annual incentive bonus of up to 50% of base salary based upon performance, documents state.
The contract also includes non-cash compensation including universityhousing, car allowance, relocation allowance and club membership, the BOT agenda states.
Any compensation above $200,000 will be paid from non-state sources, the contract states.
The term begins on April 13, 2020 and ends on April 12, 2025 — and may be renewed for one-year terms upon approval of the Board of Trustees and confirmation by the Florida Board of Governors following an annual review of performance, the contract states.
Here is a breakdown of what his contract looks like: 
Cartwright will be considered by the Florida Board of Governors on Wednesday. If the Board of Governors gives its final approval, his contract will be effective beginning April 13. 
Cartwright previously served as provost and executive vice chancellor at the State University of New York, according to his C.V.
On March 13, search firm consultant Alberto Pimentel introduced the “high visibility candidate” the firm had been hiding for “many, many weeks.”
MYSTERY CANDIDATE — #UCF SG Senate sent a letter to the Board of Trustees about the lack of transparency and the #mysterycandidate UCF and its search firm have been hiding from the process for "many weeks" https://t.co/bxEA1VEAcM
 
This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 



