UCF’s chapter of Kappa Delta sorority sparked outrage with students when a video surfaced on Twitter on Saturday. 
Maribeth Ehasz, vice president for Student Development and Enrollment Services, answered Knight News’ questions about the situation on Monday.
Idk why the Kappa Delta tweet got deleted @UCF y’all gotta peep this. Schools gonna shut down before it even starts at this rate. Rona didn’t disappear pic.twitter.com/WHEi0Q5BvL
Ehasz confirmed the women in the video are sisters of Kappa Delta sorority at UCF and live together in the sorority’s privately owned on-campus house. 
She said the sisters had just concluded a week of virtual recruitment and were celebrating in ways that did not abide by university guidelines.
“That night was the night preferences were being made, where the the sororities were communicating their preferences,” Ehasz said. “It was an exciting moment and they ran out.”
Ehasz describes the video as showing the sisters running out to celebrate their success and not wearing facial coverings — she prided the Panhellenic Council for calling an emergency meeting to discuss the situation.
“It was a mistake,” Ehasz said. “They did not have facial coverings [on] and we have definitely communicated with them.”
Knight News asked Ehasz if the sorority would be given an educational opportunity or face immediate consequences, and Ehasz said there would be a chance to learn from this situation. 
Ehasz said the sorority was able to continue with recruitment and she said they understood the consequences.
Knight News made several attempts to contact the sorority, but Kappa Delta did not respond in time of publication. 
“They made a mistake,” Ehasz said. “We have to look at that and go forward.”



UCF’s Mathematical Sciences Building was evacuated Tuesday evening due to the presence of smoke caused by malfunctioning equipment on the first floor.  
UCF Police Department spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said a housekeeper reported the smoke on the first floor of the building to UCFPD.
UCFPD evacuated the building and called Orange County Fire and Rescue Department due to concerns about the hazardous materials housed in the Mathematical Sciences Building’s labs. 
Just before 9:30 p.m., UCFPD tweeted that every precaution was being taken due to materials in the building. 
Gilmartin said Orange County Sheriff’s Office assisted during the response to ensure a safe perimeter was established around the building with concerns of hazardous materials. 
Video taken by @megnturner_ at 9:50 p.m. pic.twitter.com/8sJxAXupy8
“The source of the smoke was identified as a piece of equipment that had malfunctioned,” Gilmartin said. 
The Mathematical Sciences Building is home to UCF’s mathematics department, the math learning lab, physics teaching labs, and other cross-disciplinary research and teaching spaces, according to UCF’s website. 
Gilmartin said the building was reopened, the scene was broken down, and UCF Facilities responded to the necessary after care.



