The UCF Knights rebounded with an impressive 51-34 win against the Tulane Green Wave on a sunny afternoon at the Bounce House on Saturday.
The Knights came into the 2020 Homecoming Weekend on a two game losing streak after losing at home to Tulsa and on the road to Memphis. 
Heading into the game, the Knights’ ranked No. 76 in the country in total defense and have given up 517.8 total yards to the opposing offense this season, while the Green Wave rank No. 50 in the country in total defense. 
The defense, while a question mark coming into the game against the Green Wave didn’t allow any points in the second quarter — the UCF offense scored 27 unanswered points with their fast tempo offense led by another stellar showing from sophomore quarterback Dillion Gabriel.
Coming off a career high 601 yards against the Memphis Tigers, Gabriel continued his impressive play this season throwing for 422 yards  and 5 touchdowns.
UCF wide receiver Marlon Williams led the receiver room with another impressive performance — the senior finished the game with 9 catches for 174 yards and 3 touchdowns against Tulane.
As the Knights showed off their grey NASA inspired uniforms and helmet and their offense truly took off with 689 yards of total offense, compared to the Green Waves’ 340 yards. 
With the win, the Knights improve to 3-2 overall, and 2-2 in American Athletic Conference play, while the Green Wave fall to 2-4 overall and 0-4 in conference play. 
The Knights will next travel to face the Houston Cougars on Oct. 31 at 2 p.m.



UCF’s fourth annual Space Game launched Saturday at the Bounce House against the Tulane Green Wave, and the game day threads were out of this world.  
The annual #UCFinSpace campaign pays homage to the university’s previous and current connection to space exploration, UCF Athletics said. 
UCF alumni make up 30% of employees at Kennedy Space Center, and as of February 2019, 336 NASA Awards have been received by UCF, the release states. 
Although these threads in 2020 are new, they still carry the same tradition the university instilled in the past. 
The jersey number on each uniform includes a space constellation containing the names of buildings and roads on UCF’s main campus such as Orion and Tarus. 
Each jersey contains the university’s original Citronaut logo, which was inspired by UCF’s correlation with the space program, the release states. 
The team also revealed the aesthetic of the new Mission IV customized patch — these stitchings have been a trend throughout the first three Space Games.
The blue color representing the Citronaut has remained constant throughout the history of UCF’s Space Games. 
Although blue is not a color that is typically associated with the university, the Citronaut serves as a unique change of pace for an alternate uniform combination.
The constellation concept is a theme the Knights have been accustomed to in years past. 
Last year’s threads against Houston included a similar concept with white being the focus on these jerseys.
Just last year, these uniforms won Uniform Authority’s Best Uniform of the 2019 College Football Season.
#UniAuthority Best Uniform of the 2019 College Football Season:1. @UCF_Football #UAAwards pic.twitter.com/T4rt6ahNOu
The Knights look to secure the latest installment of the Uniform Authority’s Best Uniform in 2020 for consecutive seasons with Saturday’s threads. 



