Ben Shapiro — the conservative commentator and editor-in-chief of the Daily Wire — will no longer be coming to UCF on March 23 due to the Coronavirus Disease 2019.
“Out of an abundance of caution for everyone involved in our upcoming Ben Shapiro Lecture, we have decided to postpone the event,” the College Republicans at UCF wrote in a Friday statement. “If you have received a ticket for our event, please hold on to it. All tickets will remain valid …”
The College Republicans said in the statement it hopes to announce a new date for the event soon and the organization will work to ensure the event is a success. 
Please read the following statement on the current status of our Ben Shapiro Lecture pic.twitter.com/iuHgFF652C
The Ben Shapiro event at UCF is part of a nationwide series of campus lectures hosted by Young America’s Foundation. The event was put on hold after YAF announced it was postponing all campus lectures, according to a Friday statement. 
“Following closures or event restrictions enacted by an increasing number of schools nationwide, Young America’s Foundation made the difficult decision to pause its nationwide campus lecture program, effective immediately,” YAF spokesman Spencer Brown wrote in a statement. 
Some news: Following closures or event restrictions enacted by an increasing number of schools nationwide, Young America’s Foundation made the difficult decision to pause its nationwide campus lecture program, effective immediately. https://t.co/eS9McmIahx
Andrew Porter, junior political science major and College Republicans member, said although he is disappointed that the event is going to be postponed, he thinks it’s appropriate.
“Having an event like this, which would be about 1,500 people in one room, doesn’t seem like it’s the right move given the political climate right now,” Porter said.
The news of Shapiro speaking at UCF first created tension within the UCF community when the College Republicans asked the UCF Student Government Senate to fund half of the event using students’ activity and services fee fund.
Porter had previously attended the UCF SG open forums and spoken out in favor of bringing Shapiro to UCF using student funds.
The College Republicans first announced the event on Jan. 29. 
Students and community members organized a protest against the use of student funds for the conservative speaker on Feb. 6, the day of the bill’s second reading. 
Individuals — both in favor and not in favor of the bill — voiced their opinions in multiple open forums hosted by the senate. The funding bill to pay half the cost of Shapiro’s fee plus the cost for six UCF Police Department officers — totaling $17,875 — was approved on Feb. 13. 
On March 3, the College Republicans released event details and ticketing information. The allocated tickets for non-UCF students were claimed within 10 minutes, according to the organization’s Twitter. 
Incredible! In less than 10 minutes we sold out all of our guest tickets. If you didn’t get one, don’t worry! A standby line will be available for those who couldn’t get a ticket. If you got a ticket, you have access to our priority line. We can’t wait to see you on March 23rd!
College Republicans Vice Chairman Didi Malka said the College Republicans are working with the university and YAF to plan a new date.
College Democrats Director of Public Affairs Shahaan Khan said the postponement of the event was the responsible action to take.
“We’re glad they’ve taken the responsible steps and placed the general public and Mr. Shapiro’s health first,” Khan said.



U-Haul announced in a press release Thursday that the company will be offering students nationwide 30 days of free self-storage following the outbreak of the Coronavirus Disease 2019. 
“[Students] just have to show their I.D. to show they are a student,” said U-Haul customer service representative Terry Andrews.
On Wednesday, UCF encouraged students to stay at, or return to, their permanent residences, at the conclusion of spring break, following the recommendation of the Florida Board of Governors. 
U-Haul’s offer applies to new customers and is subject to availability, according to the press release.
U-Haul Moving and Storage of Alafaya — located on the corner of East Colonial Drive and North Alafaya Trail — had 22 self-storage units available at time of publication. The store’s general manager, Joshua Reny, said no students had yet to utilize the self-storage service. 
“We have practically endless opportunity here in Orlando,” Reny said. “We can serve the entire school, practically.”
Reny said he visited UCF’s campus with flyers and vouchers to let the university know U-Haul was offering this service to students. 
“I did come up to the university, but they didn’t seem too interested in us offering services to students,” Reny said.
Knight News reached out to UCF for comment, but the university did not respond in time for publication. 
The release states it is the first time the company has extended a 30-day free self-storage offer company-wide. 
“We don’t know how every student is affected. But we know they are affected,” said U-Haul President John “JT” Taylor in the release. “More and more universities are giving instructions to leave campus and go home. Students and their parents are in need of moving and storage solutions. We have the expertise and network to help, and that’s exactly what we’re going to do.”
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.



