A UCF student experienced a medical issue while driving on Tuesday that ended with the student’s black Honda Accord hitting a light pole — and the UCF community coming to help in a time of need. 
UCF Police Department spokeswoman Amanda Sellers confirmed in a Friday email the student was on Gemini Boulevard, making a left turn from Libra Drive when he experienced the medical issue and hit the light pole. 
UCFPD Officer Dan Ryley said the Orange County Fire Department was called to the scene, and the individual driving the vehicle was transported to Orlando Regional Medical Center.
“Right now, they are assuming he had a seizure,” Ryley said.  “But we do not know for sure.”
Ryley — who has been with UCFPD since 2016 — said the official cause of the accident will be determined through an investigation. Ryley said the airbags in the individual’s vehicle did deploy during the collision.
“The hazards come on as soon as the airbag is deployed,” Ryley said. “The airbag saved his life, probably.”
Witnesses said the driver of the vehicle was going approximately 30 mph before having what looked to be a seizure. They described the vehicle swerving into the light pole, forcing the car to come to a stop, witnesses said. 
Sellers said he was transported with non-life threatening injuries.
Jodi Lewis, senior nonprofit management major, said she was in front of the vehicle that ran into the light pole. She said she called 911 as soon as she saw the accident occur.
“I was turning and the light was red,” Lewis said. “He was turning behind me but ran into the pole.” 
Information technology junior James Kitchens was at the scene and said he saw the accident happen from the sidewalk while walking to class.
“I saw the destruction of the car,” Kitchens said. 
UCFPD is located approximately 0.4 miles away from the accident scene. Kitchens said it felt like UCFPD responded in seconds.
UCF freshman biology major Christopher Hansrote said his instincts kicked in and he ran to the car after watching the accident happen.
“I was really glad his window was open because we would have had to punch the window open to turn the car off,” Hansrote said. “I was able to shift the car in park and turn the car off.”
Hansrote said he reached through the driver’s side window, opened the car door and shifted the car into park — the black Honda Accord was still running and in gear, but he said he was able to turn the ignition off.
“I did not know the guy,” Hansrote said. “But I went into ‘help mode,’ and sometimes you just gotta do, what you gotta do.”
UCFPD said the cause of the accident is still under investigation.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.



UCF interim President Thad Seymour has named Michael Johnson, dean of the College of Sciences, to serve as interim provost while the university looks into concerns that led to Seymour placing Provost Elizabeth Dooley on administrative leave on Jan. 10.
“Because we do not have a defined timeline for Provost Dooley’s paid administrative leave, I believe it is in our best interest to name a full-time interim provost,” Seymour said in a Thursday news release.
Johnson takes the place of Jana Jasinski, vice provost for Faculty Excellence, who was named by Seymour to serve as acting provost when Dooley was placed on paid administrative leave.
Knight News made several requests for UCF to provide transparency regarding the concerns, but UCF spokesman Chad Binette said in a Thursday email the university will not be discussing the topic. 
#UPDATE: @UCF acknowledged our q’s about @UCFProvost Elizabeth Dooley’s paid leave after previously refusing to respond to emails. A UCF spokesperson confirmed she remains on paid leave despite an interim provost being named today. More info to come, check back for #updates.
“Provost Dooley remains on paid administrative leave. As President Seymour’s note mentioned, we do not have a timeline for the duration of her leave,” Binette said in an email. “Administrative leave can be used for a variety of reasons as outlined in UCF regulation 3.040 (17). We are not elaborating on the concerns, out of respect for Provost Dooley’s privacy and the process that is ongoing.”
Binette cited UCF-3.040 (17) in a Thursday email, which lists three possible subcategories.
According to UCF’s Human Resources policy:“For A&P and USPS, administrative leave and pay status decision under this section will be made by the CHRO or designee. If paid, administrative leave under this section shall not count as hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime and shall not accrue. An employee may be placed on administrative leave for the following:(a) If it is determined that the employee’s presence in the workplace may result in damage to property, or injury to the employee or others. (b) When the employee is under investigation. (c) Where deemed appropriate to unique or specific circumstances related to the employee and/or if determined to be in the best interest of the University,” according to the UCF HR website. 
In the records request, Knight News obtained the formal notice Seymour sent to Dooley on Jan. 13 — three days after the announcement was made regarding her paid leave — citing UCF-3.040 (17) (c). 
“Where deemed appropriate to unique or specific circumstances related to the employee and/or if determined to be in the best interest of the University,” according to the policy, available on UCF’s Human Resources website. 
In his Jan. 10 statement,  Seymour said Dooley was aware and agreed to the situation. 
“She agreed this decision allows her to temporarily step away while we work to fully understand concerns that have been raised, and I appreciate her commitment to cooperate,” he said. 
The former vice provost for Teaching and Learning and dean of the College of Undergraduate Studies had been serving as the interim provost since April 2018.
Dooley served as interim provost before the Provost Search Committee, led by  Johnson, selected her in October 2018 to fill the role full-time, according to her change in position announcement written by former UCF President Dale Whittaker.
Johnson has been at UCF since 1990, starting solely in the Department of Physics but eventually working in numerous roles in university leadership.
According to Johnson’s bio, he has served in the IT Governance Committee, overseeing academic global programs, chairing dean and provost searches, serving as associate dean and interim chair, and he also has served several years in the provost’s office dealing with faculty collective bargaining agreement negotiations, grievances, and discipline. 
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.



