UCF Director of Athletics Danny White provided insight in a letter to Knight Nation as to how the UCF Athletics mitigated a projected $15 million loss due to COVID-19, and budgeted to an approximate $5 million shortfall.
White said in a Friday letter that UCF Athletics began to strategize and plan the budget for the 2021 fiscal year when COVID-19 shut down the athletics world in March.
He said over the past five years, the athletics department has been able to grow its budget by more that $20 million — White said UCF Athletics will be entering the 2021 fiscal year with that budget growth mindset, but will need to push pause for one year. 
“We didn’t want to lose momentum, but we knew we had to mitigate the damage, make decisions during a time of extreme uncertainty and attack the issue,” he said in the Friday statement.
White said UCF Athletics is projecting a $12.7 million loss in revenue — and approximately $2 million in increased COVID-19 related expenses — for a total loss of approximately $14.7 million. 
White provided a breakdown of UCF Athletics’ approach for mitigating the nearly $15 million loss to a about a $5 million deficit.
White thanked Knight Nation for their year-round support, the staff and coaches for their tireless efforts, and the student-athletes for their positive attitude during this unprecedented time. 
“Let’s stay safe, stick together and Keep Charging On!”
#KnightNation, here’s how we’ve handled our finances during the COVID-19 pandemic:https://t.co/7Pm3clNWMb



The UCF men’s basketball schedule has been released for the 2020-21 season, and home games at Addition Financial Arena will begin with 25% capacity. 
The American Athletic Conference announced a 20-game, double round-robin conference schedule for each school in the conference, a news release states. 
The Knights start the season at home against Oklahoma on Nov. 28 at 2 p.m., and will host Auburn on Nov. 30 at 7 p.m. 
UCF will travel to Ann Arbor to face Michigan on Dec. 6 at 4 p.m., and will face the Cougars in Houston on Dec. 15 to kickoff conference play. 
The Knights will travel to Tallahassee on Dec. 19 to matchup against the Florida State Seminoles. 
UCF will host Cincinnati and Tulane in December, welcoming the Bearcats to Addition Financial Arena on Dec. 22 and the Green Wave on Dec. 30.
In January 2021, the Knights’ home opponents include:
The Knights will go on the road in January to take on: 
In February 2021, UCF will host: 
In February, the Knights will travel to face:
The Knights will finish out the regular season on March 4, 2021 on the road at ECU.
Home games at Addition Financial Arena will begin with 25% capacity, or 2,500 individuals, UCF Athletics said. The arena’s website states its original capacity is 10,000 seats.
All patrons will be required to wear face coverings at all times, other than when actively eating or drinking in their own seat, UCF said.
UCF Athletics said more information on arena protocols and student attendance information will be available next week.
Tickets are on sale now for the Oklahoma game, the Auburn game, and 10-game conference plans — tickets can be purchased by clicking here.
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



