UCF has began issuing COVID-19 interim suspensions — two students and two Greek organizations have been suspended and will go through UCF’s Office of Student Conduct for allegations of violating university policies.
Zeta Tau Alpha, one of the three sororities under quarantine on campus, and UCF fraternity Sigma Alpha Epsilon have been placed on interim organizational suspension while student conduct investigates the allegations.
Last week, UCF asked the community to report COVID-19 violations to its IntegrityLine that could lead to punishment as severe as suspension or expulsion from the university.
“ZTA was placed on interim suspension for allegedly hosting an unapproved social gathering on campus,” UCF officials said in a Thursday email.
UCF spokeswoman Heather Smith said the sorority followed the university’s process for applying to host an event, but the event was still pending a decision from UCF. Smith said the sorority elected to hold the event anyway. 
“The event also willfully disregarded the university’s COVID-19 policies and guidelines,” Smith said.
Knight News has requested the public records pertaining to both student conduct cases to further investigate. 
“SAE was placed on interim suspension for allegedly hosting a large social gathering off campus that willfully disregarded the university’s COVID-19 policies and guidelines,” Smith said in the email. 
Two individuals have also been suspended from the university following reports of noncompliance with UCF’s policies. Smith said one student didn’t remain isolated after testing positive for COVID-19, and the other hosted large social gatherings off campus.
On-Campus Quarantine
Zeta Tau Alpha, Kappa Alpha Theta and Alpha Epsilon Phi were placed on a two-week quarantine — UCF said a total of 79 women live in the three houses, and a total of 16 of these women have tested positive.  
On Saturday, Knight News first reported the email UCF officials sent to the Greek community that two chapters in Greek Park were placed under quarantine on Friday evening, and said consequences will come to chapters who violate the rules. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



