UCF’s COVID-19 dashboard shows 115 new positive cases, with 18 positive tests self-reported by university faculty and staff members. 
It marks the most self-reported faculty and staff cases in a weekly update. The dashboard also shows an increase in both positive student tests and self-reported student tests since the last update.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette said 122 student tests were administered by UCF’s on-campus testing site between Dec. 6 and Saturday and 32 tests were positive for COVID-19 — about a 26.2% positivity rate for students tested at the on-campus testing site. 
Binette said many of the individuals tested by UCF’s on-campus testing site were referred by Student Health Services after close contact with a known positive case or because an individual had symptoms highly suggestive of COVID-19. 
Binette said the 32 positive student tests from the on-campus testing site is not representative of UCF’s total population.
Additionally, students self-reported 65 positive COVID-19 tests, the dashboard shows. Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data.
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, the university has been made aware of 2,416 total cases, both on and off-campus. 
Of the total cases, 237 positive cases have been self-reported by faculty and staff members. This is about 9.8% of all UCF’s positive cases since March 10 — Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10.
Knight News has obtained the positivity rate data for student tests administered on-campus for the last 12 weeks — the positivity rate only accounts for tests administered by UCF’s on-campus testing site and not other results submitted to the university.
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, UCF’s on-campus testing parter has confirmed a total of 1,093 student tests positive for COVID-19. The university has been made aware of an additional 923 self-reported student cases of COVID-19. 
Here’s a breakdown of the most recent update: 
For the week ending Dec. 5, the dashboard showed 57 new positive cases, with 13 positive cases self-reported by university faculty and staff members. The on-campus testing site tested 133 students, in which 20 positive tests came back, which is about a 15% positivity rate for the student tests. There were 24 students who self-reported tests between Nov. 29 and Dec. 5.
For the week ending on Nov. 28, the dashboard showed 74 new positive cases, with 14 positive cases self-reported by university faculty and staff members. There were 186 student tests were administered by UCF’s on-campus testing and 14 tests were positive — about a 15% positivity rate —while students self-reported 46 positive COVID-19 tests between Nov. 22 and Nov. 27. 
For the week ending on Nov. 21, there were 70 new positive cases. There were 26 positive tests at the on-campus testing site, which is about a positivity rate of 10.4%. Students self-reported 36 positive COVID-19 tests, and faculty and staff self-reported 8 positive tests between Nov. 15 and Nov. 21. 
For the week ending on Nov. 14, there were 136 new positive cases, and student tests had a positivity rate of 18.3%. Students self-reported 80 positive COVID-19 tests, and faculty and staff self-reported 12 positive tests between Nov. 8 and Nov. 14. 
For the week ending on Nov. 7, the dashboard showed the second consecutive week of record self-reported faculty and staff cases with 13 positive for COVID-19. There were also 130 new positive COVID-19 cases in the update — 56 of the positive tests were reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site and 61 students self-reported positive tests during the week of Nov. 1 to Nov. 7.
For the week ending on Oct. 31, the dashboard showed the highest number of self-reported faculty or staff cases in a weekly update with 10 new positive tests. There were also a total of 107 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 37 of the positive tests reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site between Oct. 25 and Oct. 31. 
For the week ending on Oct. 24, the dashboard showed the highest number of self-reported student cases in a weekly update with 110 new positive tests. There were a total of 183 new positive COVID-19 cases reported, with 67 of the positive tests reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. Faculty or staff members self-reported six positive tests between Oct. 18 and Oct. 24.
For the week ending on Oct. 17, the dashboard update showed 116 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 81 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. Students self-reported 33 positive tests and two faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 11 and Oct. 17.
For the week ending on Oct. 10, the dashboard update showed 218 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 152 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. Students self-reported 61 positive tests and five faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 4 and Oct. 10 — the update marked the highest recorded case count in a weekly update since UCF has recorded COVID-19 numbers. 
For the week ending on Oct. 3, there were 95 new positive COVID-19 cases with 30 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. Students self-reported 57 positive tests and eight faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Sept. 26 and Oct. 3.
For the week ending on Sept. 26, the dashboard showed 94 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 41 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. The 41 positive tests included results from the random COVID-19 testing of 100 students that reside in on-campus Greek life housing, which UCF began on Sept. 21.
For the week ending on Sept. 19, UCF’s dashboard showed 95 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 37 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site from the start of the pandemic through Sept. 19.
For the week ending on Sept. 12, UCF’s dashboard showed that 97 new cases were reported and a total of 926 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 12.
For the week ending on Sept. 5, UCF’s dashboard showed that 75 new cases were reported and a total of 829 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 5.
For the week ending on Aug. 29, the dashboard shows 754 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
For the week ending on Aug. 22, the dashboard showed 727 positive COVID-19 cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
For the week ending on Aug. 15, UCF’s dashboard showed 632 total cases reported to the university since March 10.
UCF first unveiled its new dashboard on Aug. 12, which showed a total of 540 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
“We encourage students, faculty and staff to report any positive tests to us, whether or not you have been on or plan to go to any of our campuses,” the dashboard reads.
To report positive tests, ask questions about symptoms or to request a telehealth visit to be screened for possible testing, call UCF’s COVID Line at 407-823-2509.
Check back with Knight News for COVID-19 updates.



The driver who struck and killed UCF student London Harrell in 2019 while she was walking near campus has been sentenced to 12 years in prison.
Yousuf Hasan pled no contest to one count of leaving the scene of a crash involving death and was sentenced on Wednesday, the Orlando Sentinel reports.
The driver who struck and killed #UCF student London Harrell while she was walking near campus in 2019 was sentenced to 12 years in state prison on Wednesday. Yousuf Hasan pled no contest to one count of leaving the scene of a crash involving death. This is a #developing story. pic.twitter.com/yhYVBAy63L
Circuit Judge Elaine Barbour also sentenced Hasan to eight years of supervised probation, which he will serve after his sentence, the Sentinel reports. 
Hasan faced one felony charge of vehicular homicide and one felony charge of DUI manslaughter, but the Sentinel reports prosecutors agreed to drop the two charges filed against Hasan in a plea deal. 
The plea deal was accepted by the judge during a hearing at the Orange County Courthouse, the Sentinel reports. 
Just before 1 a.m. on June 22, 2019, Florida Highway Patrol reports state witnesses saw Hasan’s 2015 Acura hit Harrell while she was walking a grass shoulder near UCF’s main campus.
Knight News previously reported that crash and DUI troopers believe Hasan was under the influence of drugs at the time of the accident — it is not known at this time if Hasan’s blood samples confirmed this. 
Hasan was accused of two DUI hit-and-runs in a single night. Before striking Harrell, FHP found parts of his bumper left on-scene near the intersection of Mandel Drive and Alafaya Trail.
The first hit-and-run FHP report from June 22, 2019, can be read here. The second hit-and-run FHP report can be read here. 
Records state Hasan fled both scenes but was later found by Orange County Sheriff’s Officers near his vehicle in the parking lot of Collegiate Village Inn — a student housing complex on University Boulevard less than a mile from UCF’s main entrance.
Hasan was arrested, and on June 24, 2019, he was released on $11,500 bond.
A candlelight vigil was held on June 28, 2019.
“This Little Light of Mine” plays as loved ones huddle in solidarity. #LondonStrong pic.twitter.com/TlBuACKqhG
Family, friends and loved ones gathered for a prayer vigil on the lawn of the UCF Reflection Pond on that Friday evening.
UCF Police Chief Carl Metzger told Knight News at the end of the vigil the atmosphere and sense of community support was something exemplified during the gathering.
“I’m proud of our campus tonight, coming together like true Knights,” Metzger said. “We are a family and tonight really demonstrates that.”
Family and loved ones symbolically place flowers into Reflection Pond.“This is her home and you’ve been her family,” her mother says. #LondonStrong pic.twitter.com/ZoaPLMZHhf
Harrell, a sister of UCF’s Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority, was hospitalized for several days before succumbing to her injuries. The candlelight ceremony was held at UCF hours before her family announced her passing.
“She is no longer in pain and her bright light will shine in heaven – reminding us that doing for others should always be a priority,” Paula Cobb wrote in a Facebook post. “Miracles happen in many ways and for us having a few more days to spend with London was an answer to that prayer. I love you all.”
Hasan returned into police custody in connection to the death of Harrell but was released on bond days later. 



