UCF senior running back Greg McCrae announced on Tuesday he is declaring for the 2021 NFL Draft.
“The last 4 years have been nothing short of amazing,” McCrae wrote in the statement posted to social media. “Coming to UCF has been one of the best decisions I have ever made. The love, support, and dedication I have received from the UCF community and the city of Orlando are things I will forever cherish.” 
“With that being said, I will be declaring for the 2021 NFL Draft to pursue my dreams,” McCrae said. “I look forward to representing the University of Central Florida in a positive manner and making UCF and Knight Nation proud. Thank you for everything…”
McCrae currently holds UCF’s career record and ranks third in FBS among active players with a yard-per-carry average of 6.55. The senior running back ranks fourth all-time at UCF with 28 career touchdowns since 2017, and ranks him fifth all-time at UCF with 2,543 rushing yards.
Knight News previously reported that as a freshman walk-on, McCrae said he couldn’t have imagined he would have such an impact on the UCF football team.
“I never imagined all the things that would have happened, all the success of the program and being part of the program,” he said in November. “I just wanted to be part of a team and I ended up being part of a family.”
Majoring in sports and exercise science, McCrae has been with UCF since being a true freshman at the start of the 2017 season — he had a career-high of eight carries to total 27 yards against Austin Peay, and totaled 151 yards on 26 carries with two touchdowns throughout the 2017 season. 
As a sophomore, McCrae scored ten touchdowns and totaled 1,182 yards on the ground on 133 touches with nine touchdowns, he led the team in net rushing yards, yards per carry, rushing touchdowns and rushing yards per game during the Knights’ 2018 season. 
McCrae became the first 1,000-yard rusher since Storm Johnson in 2013, and scored a season-long 36 yard pass from former UCF quarterback McKenzie Milton against UConn. 
In the 2019 season, McCrae added nine receptions for 64 yards, averaged 5.4 yards per carry, and contributed 529 rushing yards on 98 attempts with seven rushing touchdowns. 
He rushed 10 times for 56 yards with a 25-yard score against FAMU and rushed 14 times for 80 yards and a 26-yard score against Marshall in the 2019 Gasparilla Bowl. McCrae earned honorable mention all-conference honors from Pro Football Focus for the 2019-2020 season. 
During his senior year, McCrae ranked No. 22 in the nation with nine rushing touchdowns, averaged 5.2 yards per carry and 75.7 yards per game, and rushed 131 times for a team-high 681 yards and team-best nine touchdowns during the Knights’ 2020 season. 
McCrae was named to the Doak Walker Award Watch List, and to the CFPA National Performer of the Year watchlist. McCrae was also in the preseason third-team all-conference in The American for the 2020-2021 season.
“The lessons I have learned here will come with me wherever I go, and I will strive to represent this illustrious institution in everything I do in my future endeavors,” McCrae said. 
In his statement posted Tuesday afternoon, McCrae thanked past and present coaches for giving him the opportunity to succeed but also showed gratitude toward his family and teammates. 
“To my family, I thank you for being my support system and always helping me keep my vision clear. Lastly to my brothers at UCF, I cherish every moment we have spent on and off that field, every game, every practice, and every rep was never taken for granted. I love you guys and appreciate you for allowing me to go to war with you every day.” 
Check back with Knight News on this developing story. 



The Los Angeles Rams plan to re-sign former UCF quarterback Blake Bortles as an emergency option after the team’s starting quarterback underwent surgery on Monday.
The Rams will be without quarterback Jared Goff on Sunday against the Arizona Cardinals after he suffered a broken thumb and underwent surgery to repair the injury.
McVay: Bryce Perkins will back up Wolford and the team is planning on re-signing Blake Bortles.
Backup quarterback John Wolford will get the start, according to the team’s reporter. Wolford has not seen action this season. 
The rookie QB Bryce Perkins will also be available to back up Wolford, but he also has not yet taken a snap in his NFL career. 
The Rams plan on re-signing Bortles — Goff’s backup last year — for contingency depth at the position and as an emergency option, the team said.
Bortles was a five-year starter for the Jacksonville Jaguars — he was drafted by the team as the No. 3 overall draft pick in 2014. 
Bortles and the Jaguars parted ways in 2018. 
Bortles spent last season as the Rams backup QB to Goff, who didn’t miss a start and was signed as a free agent by the Denver Broncos this season.
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



UCF wide receiver Tre Nixon announced on social media Tuesday he plans to declare for the 2021 NFL Draft. 
“I give thanks to all my teammates and coaches over the years for pushing me and keeping me accountable,” Nixon said in the statement. “Thank you Coach Heupel and Coach Wyatt for believing in me and helping me grow into a better man and football player.”
“Knight Nation: Thank you for all the memories,” Nixon said in the statement. “These past few years have been nothing short of amazing. I will cherish my time here for a lifetime.”
The redshirt senior has been with the UCF Knights since 2018, playing all 13 games that season while averaging 14.1 yards per reception and 43.2 yards receiving per game. 
During the 2018 UCF against SMU, Nixon caught a career-high six passes for 97 yards and one touchdown. 
Nixon became the second-leading receiver during the Knights’ 2019 season with 49 catches for 830 yards and seven touchdowns. Nixon was an honorable mention on the All-American Athletic Conference squad in 2019, as well. 
In the 2020 season, Nixon appeared in only three regular-season games due to what appeared to be a shoulder injury he sustained during the season opener against Georgia Tech in Atlanta in September, where he caught four passes for 94 yards and scored two touchdowns in the first half of the matchup prior to his injury. 
Nixon returned to the team following his injury against Cincinnati in November to catch five passes of 24 yards, later to go on to receive five receptions for 94 yards, including a 51 yarder against South Florida. 
Nixon thanked his family for the unconditional love and support but said he is also grateful for the medical staff who helped him get back out on the field. 
“To the medical and strength staff: I appreciate every one of you,” he said in the statement. “2020 has been a crazy one for sure, and I can’t thank you guys enough for helping me get back out there with my teammates.” 
Before the start of the 2020-2021 season, Nixon was named to the Biletnikoff Award Watch List, and named on the Athlon Sports Preseason American Athletic Football 2020 All-Conference third team.
Prior to his time at UCF, Nixon spent two seasons at Ole Miss from 2016-2017, seeing action for 10 games and recording one catch for 19 yards in a game against the California Golden Bears in the 2017 season.
 pic.twitter.com/eThahjvhA2
Nixon celebrated his achievements on Senior Knight ahead of the Cincinnati game on Nov. 21 and will graduate with a degree in interdisciplinary studies, his UCF Athletics bio states. 
“With all that being said, after much thought and prayer, I have decided to declare for the 2021 NFL Draft,” Nixon said. “Thank you and God bless.”
Check back with Knight News for updates.



