President Donald Trump’s campaign manager said a lawsuit has been filed to stop the counting of ballots in Michigan.
“President Trump’s campaign has not been provided with meaningful access to numerous counting locations to observe the opening of ballots and the counting process, as guaranteed by Michigan law,” Bill Stepien, Trump’s campaign manager, said in a Wednesday statement. 
Stepien said a suit has been filed in the Michigan Court of Claims to halt ballot counting until meaningful access has been granted to the Trump campaign.
“We also demand to review those ballots which were opened and counted while we did not have meaningful access,” he said. 
Stepien said Trump is committed to ensuring that all legal votes are counted in Michigan and everywhere else. 
Trump held a press conference just after 2 a.m. on Wednesday where he announced his premature victory in the 2020 Presidential Election. 
“This is an embarrassment to our country,” Trump said. “We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election.”
LIVE: President Donald J Trump https://t.co/J7hhaUPUf0
Trump said he wants all voting too stop and that he will be taking it to the U.S. Supreme Court. He said he doesn’t want any more ballots to be found at 4 a.m. and be added to the list.
“We will win this,” he said. “And as far as I’m concerned, we already have won this.”
Jen O’Malley Dillon, campaign manager for Democratic nominee Joe Biden,  called Trump’s statements outrageous and unprecedented.
“It was outrageous because it is a naked effort to take away the democratic rights of American citizens,” she said. “It was unprecedented because never before in our history has a president of the United States sought to strip Americans of their voice in a national election.”
Count every vote.
O’Malley Dillon said if Trump proceeds with his threat to go to court to try to prevent the proper tabulation of votes, the Biden campaign has legal teams standing by.
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



