UCF has now won back to back contests after defeating the Houston Cougars 44-21 at TDECU stadium in Houston behind 681 yards of total offense. 
UCF now leads the all-time series against Houston 7-3. It is also UCF’s second consecutive game scoring 44 points against the Cougars. 
With the win, the Knights now sit at 4-2 on the season with a 3-2 record in American Athletic Conference play. Houston falls to 2-2 overall and 2-1 in conference play with the loss. 
UCF sophomore quarterback Dillon Gabriel led the charge for the Knights completing 19-of-33 passes for 328 yards and two touchdowns. Gabriel currently leads the AAC in passing efficiency. 
Both of Gabriel’s touchdown passes targeted sophomore wide receiver Ryan O’Keefe, who is from Austin, Texas. O’Keefe’s elite speed allowed him to catch three passes for 97 yards and two scores in this matchup against Houston.
UCF WR Ryan O’Keefe finished the game with three catches, 97 yards and 2 TDs … and he’s really fast.   pic.twitter.com/venSj6fKO3
UCF redshirt sophomore Jaylon Robinson — who is from Fort Worth, Texas — also had a productive homecoming with five receptions for 107 yards.
Heading into the matchup, Houston led the AAC in run defense and only allowed 104.7 rushing yards a game. 
When asked about Houston’s stout run defense on Thursday before the matchup, UCF head coach Josh Heupel said the team played extremely hard and it was noticeable, especially in the front seven guys. 
“[The] linebackers are extremely active, and just structurally the way they play, they are able to get an extra hat to the football in the run game more times than not,” Heupel said on Thursday. “For us, we got to be balanced in what we’re doing and win at the line of scrimmage.”
Heupel was able to commit to the ground game early and often, which led to the Knights gashing the Cougars for 353 yards on the ground. 
UCF senior running backs Greg McCrae and Otis Anderson contributed to the rushing attack with 16 carries a piece, and redshirt junior Bentavious Thompson was responsible for eight carries. 
McCrae ran for 107 yards, Anderson rushed for 170 yards, and Thompson for 87 yards — all three RBs were able to find the endzone in this contest.
Houston quarterback Clayton Tune only completed about 50% of his passes — the junior QB completed 21-of-41 passing for 263 yards, threw two interceptions and a score. The Knights were able to grab the two interceptions in the red zone.
UCF junior linebacker Eriq Gilyard secured the first interception in the second quarter of the game and returned it 16 yards. 
The second interception came in the first few minutes of the fourth quarter from redshirt senior defensive back Richie Grant, who returned it 25 yards. 
The Knights travel back to Orlando with a win this Halloween, and McCrae showed up to the postgame press conference in his best attire.  
UCF senior RB Greg McCrae said he dressed up as the Flash for the post game presser — on Halloween — because of all the speed on the field. pic.twitter.com/NblPemL3JX
UCF will have a bye week before the team will prepare for its next game at the Bounce House — the Knights host Temple Owls on Nov. 14. 



UCF senior defensive back Antwan Collier was arrested during a traffic stop early Thursday morning and charged with driving on a suspended license and carrying a concealed weapon. 
UCFPD officers said the traffic stop was initiated because Collier was driving carelessly, according to records obtained by Knight News. Orange County’s Clerk of Courts website shows Collier has since posted bail. 
UCF redshirt junior linebacker Eric Mitchell, redshirt senior                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         defensive backs Aaron Robinson and Brandon Moore were also listed as individuals in the vehicle.
#UCF senior DB Antwan Collier was arrested early Thursday morning by #UCFPD during a traffic stop and charged with carrying a concealed weapon & driving w/ a suspended license. Records show he has since bonded out. Check back with Knight News for updates. pic.twitter.com/aibuDctA4v
The full police report can be read here. 
Collier has been a key contributor to the Knights’ defense registering 22 tackles, one forced fumble, one fumble recovery and three pass break-ups this season. 
“UCF Athletics officials are aware of the matter involving Antwan Collier,” UCF Athletics spokesman John Heisler told the Orlando Sentinel. “We have no further comment as we learn additional details about the situation.” 
Knight News obtained UCFPD officers’ body worn camera footage from the events during the traffic stop and Collier’s arrest.
Click through the next several pages to view more body worn camera footage obtained by Knight News. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



