A new year, new semester and new era of on-campus transportation — UCF Student Government partnered with electric scooter-share company Spin to make e-scooters available to rent last week.
UCF SG President Kyler Gray and Vice President Madeline Mills fulfilled their flagship campaign promise on Jan. 13 when the administration secured 300 e-scooters on UCF’s main campus.
However, picking which company would provide the scooter-share service to UCF was not something that was done overnight.
Natalia Correa-Ferro, UCF SG financial allocations for organizations committee chair, said the consensus of legislative branch’s first session was not in support of e-scooters at first.
“Administration took the time to research and look at different companies and test ride five or six types of scooters to see what would be the most cost-efficient and beneficial to students,” Correa-Ferro said.
With the introduction of any vehicle and transportation service comes a set of rules and regulations to ensure safety.
UCF SG Director of Community Affairs Kevin Olsen said in a December press release that SG launched a rigorous process and worked with different departments before bringing Spin’s ride-share service to campus.
“Getting to this point took a lot of coordination and cooperation between Student Government, the UCF administration, and the UCF Police Department to ensure that we have a program that is safe and accessible to everyone,” Olsen said in the release.
The Orlando City Council voted unanimously to amended city code and establish a scooter ride-share pilot program in a December 2019 meeting, citing the environmentally sustainable benefits of the ride-share service. 
According to UCF’s Proposed Regulation Amendment, there are some basic rules that students should keep in mind while using this service.
These range from using the scooters only on designated walkways and roads, not blocking or occupying marked parking spots and entering buildings.
But there are still some on-going conversations about safety concerns regarding the start of the football season this fall. Correa-Ferro said it has not been discussed in the senate yet.
“In the legislative branch, the concern we had was what would happen to the students when game day comes, when we have to deal with tailgates or students having to drive these scooters intoxicated,” Correa-Ferro said. “I’m hoping that on game days the company will come and pick them up and won’t be available for student use.”
Correa-Ferro said e-scooters automatically shut down if you try taking them off campus, unlike Lime Bikes which could easily be taken off-campus.
“You can’t even get it to turn on once it comes off campus, which gives it more of an incentive to stay on campus,” Correa-Ferro said. “Thus, saving money on lost scooters.”
According to a UCF SG press release, Lime’s contract with SG was for one academic year. Lime Bikes were removed from campus in June 2019. 
Jenny Le, freshman health sciences major, was among the many students riding these scooters for the first time on Jan. 13, but fell as she tried to maneuver through the crowds.
“They go really fast so you want to make sure that you have good footing,” Le said. “I’ve never even ridden a bike before, but this seemed fun and easy. Also, 15 cents a minute is a really good price.” 
Students said Spin’s mobile application recommends individuals to wear helmets while riding, but helmets are not offered as part of the rental.
“When you first open the app, they show you how to ride it and what rules to follow,” sophomore creative writing major Jeremy Singh said. “I didn’t wear a helmet because I own a helmet, and it doesn’t appear that anyone else does either.”
According to its website, Spin offers a discount on folding helmets, which can fit into a backpack and are easy to carry with during the day. 
“This has been one of the most popular platform points and we are proud to be partnered with a company that we know will cater to UCF students’ needs,” Olsen said in the December release. “There’s no doubt that this will add to the already positive atmosphere of our campus …”



Lucky’s Market will be closing all but one of its storefronts in Florida by Feb. 12.
The Sun Sentinel first reported that Regional Store Director Jason Rief announced Tuesday the grocery store chain will be closing.
On Wednesday, Lucky’s Market’s official Twitter account verified the company is closing all grocery stores except for one in each Florida, Michigan and Missouri, and two in both Ohio and Colorado.
We will be continuing on with our stores in North Boulder, Fort Collins, Traverse City, West Melbourne, Cleveland, Columbus and Columbia.We love the heck out of you. pic.twitter.com/LHhIaaCnlk
Employees were notified of the company’s decision to close on Tuesday morning. According to the article, Rief said displaced employees will receive severance pay.
The Lucky’s Market in West Melbourne, Florida, posted on its Facebook Tuesday evening that the store will remain open despite the recent news circulating of nationwide closures.
The Lucky’s Market near UCF’s main campus — at the intersection of North Alafaya Trail and East Colonial Drive — posted a different message on Facebook Tuesday evening. 
The Orlando store acknowledged the closures and said significant discounts will be offered in-store beginning Wednesday, the post reads.
Knight News has reached out to a Lucky’s Market spokeswoman, who could not be reached for comment.
Lani Nguyen, current Lucky’s Market employee and junior entertainment management major, has worked at the Lucky’s Market near UCF’s main campus since late 2019. 
“I know that as soon as I was hired, I was getting the hours I asked for,” Nguyen said. “But they quickly started cutting hours.”
She said employees at her store will turn in their aprons as each of the departments within the store sell all remaining inventory. She said her department is the deli department.
“Every time I’ve come into work, the cafe has been closed,” she said. “It looks like the meat department is going to be closed down soon, too. I would say [the deli department] will go soon — definitely before the end of next week.”
Nguyen said she currently works five days a week and is now on the hunt for another job. 
“If we stay until the very last day they need us, then we get severance pay for a week,” she said. “If we skip a day or don’t show up, we won’t get paid.”
Former Lucky’s Market employee and senior art major Carlos Hernandez said when he worked for the company from May through September 2019, his store had a high turnover rate.
“It’s crazy because now that I’m hearing all of this, I remember there were rumors when I was working there that all Florida stores were closing,” Hernandez said. “They were cutting everyone’s hours. That’s why I left.”
Hernandez also said he did not notice any major changes in business during his five months working for the company.
“Besides the problems I saw on the corporate side, I didn’t really see any other problems with [my store],” he said. “I thought they were doing pretty well.”
Hernandez’s store was located on the intersection of University Boulevard and North Goldenrod Road. 
The chain was founded in 2003 in Boulder, Colorado, according to the company’s website. 
As of Tuesday, the chain’s website lists it has 39 stores in 10 different states — 20 of those stores are set to close in February, according to the article.
The number of stores set to close has since increased from 20 to 32. 
In 2019, the chain opened seven additional locations in Florida — three of which are in Orlando. 
Lucky’s Market’s website also lists 14 stores that were intended to open in Florida in the year 2020, including one in Lake Mary, Florida.
In April 2016, grocery retail chain and manufacturing company Kroger announced its association with Lucky’s Market in a press release.
“[The] strategic partnership will benefit customers and accelerate growth in new and existing markets by combining Kroger’s scale and experience with Lucky’s best products, practices and techniques,” the release reads.
In Kroger’s third quarter reports released on Dec. 5, 2019, the company cited its earnings per share and operating profit results were primarily affected by a non-cash impairment charge related to an investment in Lucky’s Market.
“As a result of a portfolio review, Kroger has decided to divest its interest in Lucky’s Market and recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $238 million in the third quarter, and the portion of this charge attributable to Kroger is $131 million,” the release states.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 



