Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis announced on Saturday the I-4 Ultimate Project in Orlando — a 21-mile section of interstate running through Orange and Seminole County — will have some segments completed months ahead of schedule.
DeSantis said in a Saturday press conference that the ability to increase lane closures and extend work hours due to the reduction in traffic will allow some segments of the project to be accelerated by one to two months. 
On April 3, DeSantis issued a statewide stay-at-home order limiting Florida residents to only leave their homes for essential activities. 
“I’m going to be doing an executive order today directing all Floridians to limit movements and personal interactions outside the home to only those necessary to obtain or provide essential services or conduct essential activities … ,” DeSantis said during an April 1 press conference.
The Florida Department of Transportation began construction on the highway in 2015, according to FDOT.
The $2.3 billion I-4 Ultimate Project involves reconstructing 21 miles of I-4 from west of Kirkman Road to east of SR 434 in Longwood, Florida, according to FDOT. 
The segments of the $2.3 billion I-4 Ultimate Project that will be accelerated include:
DeSantis said no additional costs will be incurred or paid by taxpayers to accelerate these work activities, but said the construction acceleration will provide job opportunities for Central Florida residents. 
For essential workers and individuals traveling for essential services, FDOT has posted maps of the planned detours and lane closures on its website. 
FDOT plans to complete segments of the westbound general use lanes and its connection to the SR 408 interchange by summer, according to a Saturday news release.
“There’s not cars on the roads like there normally is,” DeSantis said during an April 1 press conference. “I think there is an opportunity to take advantage of that. We have roads that if you were to do a lot of construction on would cause massive traffic in normal situations and that may not be the case now.”
The I-4 Ultimate Project acceleration is not the first transportation project to see changes. On April 1, DeSantis announced the following projects would also experience timeline accelerations:
“The Department completely understands that I-4 is a major artery within our state’s transportation system and delivering these significant portions of the I-4 Ultimate Project is a huge win for Florida’s residents and economy,” FDOT Secretary Kevin Thibault said in a news release.  
DeSantis said this plan will allow for significant headway to take place on the I-4 Ultimate Project. FDOT said it will continue to look for opportunities to accelerate projects across the state during this low traffic period. 



UCF’s drive-through coronavirus testing site opened Monday and tested about 650 individuals, but only one test from the lab facilitating the tests has been reported to the Florida Department of Health as of Friday. 
In a Friday statement, UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said those 650 individuals with appointments have received — or will receive — results within 48 hours. 
Despite testing about 650 individuals, Aventus Biolabs has reported one result to the Florida Department of Health, according to the 5 p.m. Friday report.  
The positive test appeared in the 5 p.m. report but did not appear in the 10 a.m. report on Friday. 
“The numbers in the table below represent the number for whom test results were received by the Department of Health,” the 5 p.m. report reads.
Aventus Biolabs — a private genetics testing lab owned and operated by the healthcare company Aventus Health — partnered with UCF to facilitate the testing site, according to an April 3 news release. Aventus Health is located on Corporate Boulevard and less than 2 miles from Garage A and where the testing site is being facilitated.
UCF’s Garage A testing site and the Aventus Biolabs address are both listed as testing sites, according to the private lab’s website. 
Knight News reached out to both Gilmartin and Aventus Biolabs, but neither responded before publication.
“Over the past five days, we’ve seen a steady uptick in the number of tests administered and expect that we’ll start to reach the capacity of 250 tests per day next week,” Gilmartin said in the statement. 
The testing site had the ability to test 250 individuals per day — or 1,250 individuals this week — but tested an average of 130 individuals per day, according to the data provided by Gilmartin. 
The Florida Department of Health reported 17,968 positive cases of COVID-19 in Florida on Friday in the evening update. 
The report states private labs, like Aventus Biolabs, tested 88% of the Florida residents reported in the latest update. 
Orange County reported 902 positive cases in the Friday evening update, with 662 cases reported in Orlando. 
“To overcome this pandemic, leaders in healthcare must come together and utilize cutting-edge technology to accomplish that goal. Aventus Biolabs and UCF partnering to provide testing is a pivotal step in that direction,” Aventus Biolabs’ website reads. 
The testing site remains open weekdays at UCF’s main campus and is appointment-based. 
“The efficiency of this process will allow for individuals to receive their test results in about 24 to 48 hours,” Gilmartin said in a Sunday email. “However, it is critical that appointments are made ahead of time because this process does not allow for unscheduled testing.”
Individuals will need to be screened by a health care provider before they can obtain an order for a test and have an appointment scheduled. 
According to the statement, there are four different numbers for people to call depending on their situation:
Gilmartin said in a Sunday email to Knight News that there is no predetermined end date to the UCF testing site. 



