UCF redshirt senior wide receiver Jacob Harris announced Wednesday he is declaring for the 2021 NFL Draft.
“I want to start off by thanking UCF for giving me the opportunity to better myself and prepare for my future,” Harris said. “I also want to thank Coach Frost and Coach Held for taking a chance on me and allowing me to be a part of the best football program in the country.” 
“With that being said, I will be declaring for the 2021 NFL Draft,” Harris wrote in the statement. “Thank you all for everything!”
In three seasons as a UCF Knight, Harris registered 49 catches for 987 yards partnered with nine scores. 
Harris posted up career-high production this year, accounting for 30 receptions alongside 589 yards and eight touchdowns. As a redshirt junior, Harris averaged 23 yards a catch during the Knights 2019 campaign.
In his statement on social media, Harris opened up about the admiration he has for UCF head coach Josh Heupel, and UCF wide receivers coach Darrel Wyatt, among others. 
“The lessons I have learned from you both will be applied to all aspects of my life,” he wrote. “I would also like to thank any past or present coach that has helped me along the way.”
“To my teammates, I thank you all for the unforgettable memories and friendships that have been made,” Harris said in his statement. “I am thankful for the countless hours of work and grind we put in together. It was a special moment every time I was able to go to war with my brothers.” 
Harris’s best performance in the Black and Gold came in this year’s season finale versus USF. 
During the matchup against South Florida, Harris caught five passes for 110 yards and three touchdowns in his hometown of Tampa, Florida. 
This was Harris’ first time gaining over 100 receiving yards, and also his first time scoring multiple touchdowns in a game.
“I want to thank my family and close friends for all of their love and support. The amount of encouragement and support received week in and week out has helped me overcome many obstacles in my life, and I am grateful for that.”
Check back with Knight News for updates.



