UCF’s weekly dashboard update shows 97 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 45 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site.
Additionally, students self-reported 47 positive tests and five faculty or staff member self-reported positive tests between Sept. 5 and Saturday, the dashboard shows. 
Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data.
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, the university has been made aware of 926 total cases, both on and off campus. Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10.
Last week, UCF’s dashboard showed that 75 new cases were reported and a total of 829 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 5. 
UCF’s dashboard showed that a total of 754 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through the week ending in Aug. 29. 
In the week ending on Aug. 22, the dashboard showed 727 positive COVID-19 cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
In the week ending on Aug. 15, UCF’s dashboard showed 632 total cases reported to the university since March 10.
UCF first unveiled its new dashboard on Aug. 12, which showed a total of 540 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
“We encourage students, faculty and staff to report any positive tests to us, whether or not you have been on or plan to go to any of our campuses,” the dashboard reads.
On Sept. 5, UCF officials sent out an email to the Greek community alerting members that two houses in Greek Park were placed under quarantine. 
On Tuesday, Knight News confirmed three on-campus sorority houses are under quarantine after residents, staff and visitors tested positive for COVID-19.
Knight News learned on Thursday that UCF began issuing COVID-19 interim suspensions —  two students and two Greek organizations were suspended and will go through UCF’s Office of Student Conduct for allegations of violating university policies.
To report positive tests, ask questions about symptoms or to request a telehealth visit to be screened for possible testing, call UCF’s COVID Line at 407-823-2509.



