UCF announced Friday that summer commencement ceremonies will be held virtually on Aug. 1. 
“We understand that commencement ceremonies are a major milestone in the lives of our graduates and the loved ones who have supported them on their educational journey,” UCF said in the statement.  
UCF said the virtual ceremony will not replace the traditional ceremony and the university is committed to rescheduling traditional summer and spring commencements at a future date. 
UCF alumnus and top Disney executive George Kalogridis will deliver video remarks to graduates, the announcement states. 
#BREAKING: FL’s State University System has instructed its 12 state schools to plan alternate summer graduation ceremonies, per @FLBOG. “Recognizing that health guidelines still limit gatherings at this time, it is prudent for universities to develop alternate plans …” pic.twitter.com/oGRmtLsrhB
“We are committed to rescheduling traditional Summer and Spring commencements at a future date,” the statement reads. 
Cap and gown rentals will remain available for students who want to take photos, and Herff Jones will refund students who prefer to cancel their cap and gown order completely, according to the Friday statement.
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a bill allowing college athletes to profit off of their name, image and likeness starting in 2021.
Currently NCAA Division I rules state student-athlete may not use their name, image or likeness to promote or endorse a commercial product or service, even if he or she is not paid to participate in the activity. 
The NCAA outlines name, image and likeness-related activities as autographs, personal appearances, promoting a business, social media endorsements and representation in video game. It also includes sale of merchandise with name, image or likeness. 
DeSantis signed the bill during a Friday press conference at the University of Miami and said he saw it as a matter of fairness. 
“If you have a situation where you have great athletes particularly in sports like football or basketball, who’s name, image, and likeness is being used to make millions and millions of dollars, and then they don’t even have the opportunity to get any of that, there’s something fundamentally unfair,” he said. 
Florida will become the first state to allow student-athletes to profit off their name, image and likeness— the bill will officially go into effect on July 1, 2021. California passed a similar bill but it will not go into effect until Jan. 1, 2023.
Florida Sen. Debbie Mayfield, who represents Brevard County in District 17, introduced the bill in October 2019.
Fewer than 2% of student-athletes become professional athletes, according to the NCAA’s recruiting factsheet.
The NCAA’s top governing board voted unanimously to permit students participating in athletics the opportunity to benefit from the use of their name, image and likeness, according to an October 2019 news release.
The action directs each of the NCAA’s three divisions to immediately consider updates to relevant bylaws and policies to include the following guiding principles: 
Florida officially signing an NIL bill that’ll be in effect in 2021 will likely encourage the NCAA to take quick action. The NCAA Board of Governors said in April it will engage Congress in the following discussions: 
“Throughout our efforts to enhance support for college athletes, the NCAA has relied upon considerable feedback from and the engagement of our members, including numerous student-athletes, from all three divisions,” NCAA Board of Governors chair Michael Drake said in April. “Allowing promotions and third-party endorsements is uncharted territory.”



UCF Student Government Senate virtually met Thursday and discussed the controversial tweets of UCF psychology professor Charles Negy.     
The resolution acknowledges the right to free speech under the First Amendment, but states Negy’s comments and views will be supported if not condemned and his employment is continued at UCF.
“We cannot expect our society to change for the better as long as these views are accepted and endorsed by the University by virtue of its inaction,” the resolution states. 
UCF Student Body President Sabrina La Rosa said the executive branch supports the actions of the legislative branch.
“We support the Student Government Senate Resolution and condemn the actions of Professor Negy,” she said. “As the University is in the inquiry process, we highly suggest that students report any incidents or situations they have encountered with Professor Negy.”
UCF’s IntegrityLine, which also takes anonymous complaints, can be reached at www.ucfintegrityline.com or 855-877-6049. 
The resolution was expedited in Thursday’s senate virtual meeting and passed favorably with a final vote count of  29-0-6.
The full resolution — Resolution 52-38 – Resolution Regarding Associate Professor Charles Negy’s Employment at the University of Central Florida — can be read here.
The resolution is sponsored by the Student Government Black Caucus. 
UCF SG Senate President Fritz Farrow said the black caucus is made up of 11 members — 10 individuals in the legislative branch and one in the executive branch. 
The senate’s resolution states Negy will no longer be able to facilitate conversations on the sensitive subjects in which he educates students on, and it will interfere with his functioning of his workplace.
The resolution states Negy’s comments perpetuate systemic racism and encourage discrimination and negative views towards the marginalized communities in which UCF educates and employs.
The resolution by senate — an opinion on measures advocating on behalf of the student body — calls for Negy to no longer employed at UCF.
In a news release, UCF said no employee may mistreat or discriminate against students in their classes or in any other setting, and no student should fear they will be treated differently because of others’ personal biases.
“We have been receiving complaints alleging bias and unfair treatment in Dr. Negy’s classroom and have launched an inquiry to gather more information,” the statement reads.
The university encourages members of the community to report concerns to UCF’s IntegrityLine, which also takes anonymous complaints, at www.ucfintegrityline.com or 855-877-6049.
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



