Two of the nation’s top gunslingers duked it out in the Boca Raton Bowl at FAU Stadium on Tuesday. 
The No. 13 BYU Cougars and the UCF Knights matched up in the third bowl game of the college football season, but the Knights fell short and were defeated by the Cougars 49-23. 
Heading into the matchup, UCF was short-handed after a series of opt-outs.
In addition to the absence of senior wide receiver Marlon Williams — who declared for the NFL draft earlier this month — senior defensive backs Ritchie Grant and Aaron Robinson both did not play in the bowl game.
BYU scored on the opening drive after only running five plays. 
A 43-yard screen pass set up a 15-yard rushing touchdown for BYU junior quarterback Zach Wilson, putting the Knights in an early 7-0 deficit with 13:11 remaining in the first quarter. 
Wilson went on to complete 26-of-34 passes for 425 yards and three touchdowns through the air and ran for two scores on five rushes for 12 yards on the ground during the game.
On UCF’s first play from scrimmage, a tipped pass targeting sophomore receiver Ryan O’ Keefe resulted in an interception but was overturned upon further review. 
Despite the reversed call, UCF still went three and out in their first offensive possession.
BYU roared back on the following possession with a flea-flicker for a 36-yard strike to freshman tight end Issac Rex. 
Within the first three minutes of the game, the Cougars gained 159 yards and posted up 14 quick points.
#BYU finds the end zone on its second possession — the Cougars lead the #UCF Knights 14-0 with 11 min left in the first quarter.
UCF redshirt sophomore wide receiver Jaylon Robinson dropped a deep pass towards the far side of the field which would have resulted in a walk-in touchdown. 
UCF was caught offside on the following play before having to settle for its second punt of the night. 
After the game, Robinson said the team didn’t execute when necessary but said the team has to move on and work to get ready for next season. 
“We just didn’t execute the plays that we needed to,” Robinson said. “This one hurts, it hurts all of us, I know especially the seniors.”
During a nearly 5 minute, 11-play drive, BYU converted two third downs. UCF was able to bring the heat against Wilson, prevent him from converting a third time, and forced him to throw an incomplete pass on the fourth down — UCF took over at its own 38-yard line. 
Following a few first downs, the Knights were stuffed on a 4th and 1 attempt at the BYU 23-yard line, resulting in a consecutive turnover on downs for both squads. 
After more trickery by BYU’s offense, Wilson was able to cap off the Cougar’s fourth drive with a 4-yard rushing touchdown. 
Following the end of the first-quarter, BYU held a 21-0 lead over UCF, outgaining the Knights on offense, 270 to 85 yards. 
End of the 1st quarter ⬇️ #UCF #BYU pic.twitter.com/RCxmgXLHFW
This matchup also marked the first time UCF has not scored in the first quarter since Pittsburgh in 2019. 
A 5-yard score by senior running back Greg McCrae put the Knights on the scoreboard for the first time, capping off their 80-yard drive. 
“It’s tough, any loss is tough, This one stings because you want to go out on a good note — it hurts,” McCrae said after the game. “There are bad days, good days, today was a bad day. I’m not going to lay my head on it, I’m just going to wake up tomorrow and get better.”
When asked about the bow game possibly being his last, McCrae — who has the ability to return due to COVID-19 waivers and an additional year of eligibility — said he hasn’t yet decided whether he will return.
“I just take the brotherhood that we have here, the bond that we built with people in the building, the coaches, players, staff, it’s a family,” McCrae said. “I’m always going to be by their side.” 
UCF committed to the running attack rushing for 48 yards on the 15-play drive, which took 5:14 off the play clock, qualifying for the Knights longest scoring-drive of the season. 
UCF redshirt sophomore defensive back Jermaine McMillian was able to break up a potential touchdown pass in the end-zone before BYU was ultimately able to add to its lead after another touchdown toss by Wilson.
UCF was able to kick a 35-yard field goal with 19 seconds remaining in the first half to bring the Cougars’ lead to 35-10 over the Knights. 
Coming out of the half, UCF remained flat going three-and-out for the second time.
Just two plays later, BYU rushed into the end-zone for a 39-yard score, extending their lead 42-10. 
The touchdown marked the third time this season an opposing offense has been able to hang 40 points or more on the Knights’ defense. 
The ensuing BYU possession resulted in another BYU score, 49-10 behind 536 yards of total offense. The Cougars finished the game with 655 yards of total offense, while the Knights accounted for 411 yards.
Touchdown BYU — with under 9 min left in the third, #BYU leads #UCF 49-10 pic.twitter.com/8NomOKAFTS
A crucial pass interference penalty propelled the Knights for a 21-yard touchdown catch courtesy of redshirt senior wide receiver Jacob Harris with 5 seconds left in the third quarter.
The score continued Gabriel’s streak of throwing at least one passing touchdown in every game of his career. 
Gabriel finished the game completing 21-of-45 passes for 217 yards and two touchdowns, as well as rushing six times for 31 yards. 
The Black and Gold’s next drive ended in a 9-yard touchdown to Robinson, softening the Cougars lead. 
UCF head coach Josh Heupel’s decision to go for two ended up successful, resulting in a 49-23 ball game in favor of BYU.
After a few series of empty possessions by both squads, BYU defeated UCF by a final score of 49-23.
Heupel said the manner in which the Knights’ lost is a first since he has arrived on campus and said the team will use it as a learning opportunity.
“This one needs to stay with us,” Heupel said when discussing the offseason and preparing for next year. “First time since I’ve been here we got beat like this.”
No. 13 BYU — which also ranked No. 16 in the College Football Playoff rankings — improves to 11-1 overall with the win, while the Knights fall to 6-4 overall.



