Knight News has confirmed three on-campus sorority houses are under quarantine after residents, staff and visitors tested positive for COVID-19.
Kappa Alpha Theta and Zeta Tau Alpha started a two-week quarantine on Friday, and Alpha Epsilon Phi began its quarantine on Sunday, university officials confirmed.
Knight News first broke the news Saturday of the two on-campus Greek chapters to be placed under quarantine, which Orange County’s Department of Health Director Dr. Raul Pino discussed during a press conference on Tuesday. 
"At least two of the houses have been placed under quarantine," Pino said. "The number can continue to increase, it could be up to five of those houses."Pino said this includes residents, staff and visitors in the houses. "This is the scenario we don't want to repeat." https://t.co/YQ93mw1mAs pic.twitter.com/eQJktFcDyO
Pino said the residents of each house and some staff working in each house — along with some visitors who participated in social activities with the sororities — have tested positive for COVID-19.
Although UCF officials said the three sororities are under quarantine due to a small number of positive COVID-19 cases, Pino said the number can continue to increase and it could be up to five houses that are looking at quarantine.
“This is the scenario we don’t want to repeat,” Pino said. “This is what we didn’t learn three or four months ago. It is that it is important that for everyone in our society to carry those preventive measures.” 
UCF spokesman Chad Binette said a total of 79 women live in the three houses.
“While under quarantine, students are required to mostly stay in their rooms,” Binette said in an email to Knight News. “However, they are permitted to pick up food deliveries or other essentials from the chapter house entrance. They must wear a face covering and obey physical distancing while outside of their rooms.”
Binette said Student Care Services has reached out to the individuals who are quarantined to ask if they need help with getting food or other services during their quarantine period.
Just before the Labor Day weekend, UCF introduced an emergency policy that extends the university’s jurisdiction to essentially anywhere.
Maribeth Ehasz, vice president of Student Development and Enrollment Services, said UCF expects the community to hold each other accountable, regardless of where violations may occur, and report the concerns to UCF.
“If members of the Greek community are not able to follow these guidelines, our entire campus community will be impacted, with very real consequences,” Ehasz said in an email sent only to the Greek community on Saturday. “Those consequences include your chapter’s future at UCF, but they are also potential impacts on fellow students and their families and the UCF you love.”
In the email, Ehasz also notified the Greek community that two chapters in Greek Park were placed under quarantine Friday evening, which is now known to be Kappa Alpha Theta and Zeta Tau Alpha. 
The email said consequences will come to chapters who violate the rules, but did not list the chapters by name in the email or any specific violations to the UCF policy.
“If members of the Greek community are not able to follow these guidelines, our entire campus community will be impacted, with very real consequences,” Ehasz said in the Saturday email. 
Knight News is working to learn more about the comments in the email Ehasz sent. 
Binette said all students — whether they live on campus or not — could face disciplinary action for failure to comply with UCF’s policies for the campus and for students.
“For example, students who are found to have hosted social gatherings on or off campus that create public health risk could be placed on interim suspension and face other sanctions, potentially as severe as separation from housing or the university,” Binette said. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



UCF’s weekly dashboard update shows 75 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 40 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site.
Additionally, students self-reported 34 positive tests and one faculty or staff member self-reported a positive test between Aug. 29 and Saturday, the dashboard shows. 
UCF said in a Tuesday statement that nearly half of the cases reflected in this week’s update were identified through contact tracing.
Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data.
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, the university has been made aware of 829 total cases both on and off campus. Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10.
Last week, UCF’s dashboard showed that a total of 754 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic. 
In the week ending on Aug. 22, the dashboard showed 727 positive COVID-19 cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
In the week ending on Aug. 15, UCF’s dashboard showed 632 total cases reported to the university since March 10.
UCF first unveiled its new dashboard on Aug. 12, which showed a total of 540 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
“We encourage students, faculty and staff to report any positive tests to us, whether or not you have been on or plan to go to any of our campuses,” the dashboard reads.
On Saturday, UCF officials sent out an email to the Greek community alerting members that two houses in Greek Park were placed under quarantine. 
Florida’s COVID-19 Data and Surveillance Dashboard shows UCF’s zip code of 32816 with 103 cases.
Florida’s COVID-19 Data and Surveillance Dashboard shows the neighboring zip codes with the listed case counts: 
To report positive tests, ask questions about symptoms or to request a telehealth visit to be screened for possible testing, call UCF’s COVID Line at 407-823-2509.
Edit: Additional information pertaining to contact tracing, as well as the total number of tests administered this week and since April 5, has been included and the necessary changes have been reflected.



