UCF announced a new policy Thursday and is asking the community to report COVID-19 violations that could lead to punishment as severe as suspension or expulsion from the university.
Maribeth Ehasz, vice president of Student Development and Enrollment Services, said that UCF expects the community to hold each other accountable and report policy violations, regardless of where they may occur. 
The new Student Behavioral Expectations in Response to COVID-19 policy — which is an addition to UCF’s two current COVID-19 policies: COVID-19 Return to Campus Policy and Event Planning and COVID-19 Considerations — states that students must not engage in conduct that could endanger the health, safety or well-being of others, whether it occurs on or off campus. 
“This policy was developed to set clear expectations about how we can best care for one another. We expect compliance,” Ehasz said. “Failure to do so — regardless of whether you are on or off campus — could result in disciplinary action, up to and including separation from the university, removal from campus, and termination of a student’s UCF Housing agreement.”
In the new policy, UCF defines “off campus conduct” as “conduct that occurs in a place that does not meet the definition of  “campus.” 
The policy states UCF has the right to address off-campus conduct when it is specifically prohibited by law or the Rules of Conduct. 
The university policy states it can use existing disciplinary action regulations and policies for continued noncompliance.
UCF also listed the following highlights as notable parts of the new policy, which includes wearing facial coverings indoors 
UCF said ways students can hold each other accountable are by asking an individual to put on a face covering, and asking the individual to leave the area if they refuse.
If the individual refuses to leave, the person leading the class, event, meeting, or gathering should cancel the occurrence and report the incidence to the appropriate officials. Reports about noncompliance with COVID-19 guidelines can be made to UCF’s IntegrityLine.
UCF’s COVID-19 Return to Campus Policy also was updated on Aug. 26 to reflect the latest public health guidance and outlining the expectations for everyone at all of UCF’s campuses and properties, Ehasz said.
Ehasz said the university is disappointed to learn individuals are not complying with the policy, particularly with the requirement to wear face coverings and disobeying requests by university officials. No specific instances were listed. 
The new behavioral expectations policy states individuals must “comply immediately with a request from a university official addressing health, safety or welfare …” 
She said voluntary compliance is UCF’s goal — those who continue to fail to comply will be asked to leave campus, refusal to comply or repeated noncompliance will result in progressive disciplinary action, including separation from the university and trespass from campus.
During the first week back to campus this fall, students took to social media to voice complaints about a video that was posted on Twitter of UCF’s chapter of Kappa Delta sorority.
Ehasz said UCF’s on-campus experience depends on each individual taking personal responsibility for his or her own actions.
“Especially with Labor Day weekend approaching, we must continue to find ways to de-stress and socialize that are also considerate of how COVID-19 is spread,” Ehasz said. 
Knight News will continue to cover this developing topic. Check back for updates.



