The investigation into the degree-for-grant funding scandal within UCF’s Institute for Simulation and Training has led to the termination of one faculty member, the reinstating of the other faculty member and the retirement of the director.
In January, the director and two faculty members of UCF’s Institute for Simulation and Training were given notices of termination, following an investigation that started in fall 2018.
Lauren Reinerman-Jones and Daniel Barber received “Notice of Intent to Terminate” letters on Jan. 27 after a complaint reported to the university’s IntegrityLine alleged the two of helping a student obtain a doctoral degree in exchange for grant funding, and an external investigation was launched.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette said Barber has been reinstated and issued a letter of reprimand, following the detailed review of information in a 73-page document provided to UCF by his attorney. 
The university has moved forward with the termination of Reinerman-Jones following the thorough review of information provided in the 70-page written response her attorney submitted to the university on Feb. 6, Binette said in an email.
“The university takes seriously any violations of academic integrity, as well as the due process rights for our staff and faculty members that ensure the fairness of employment decision,” Binette said. “Today’s final decisions reflect those values.”
Former Director of IST Randall Shumaker received a “Predetermination Notice of Proposed Termination” letter on Jan. 27 and was given the courtesy to retire or resign from the director position before Feb. 7, according to documents obtained by Knight News. 
His retirement became effective Feb. 7, Binette confirmed. He will not be eligible for rehire at UCF, the notice states. 
The Institute for Simulation and Training — a research institute that focuses on the advancement of simulation technology and understanding of simulation’s role in training and education, according to its website — is now led by interim director retired U.S. Navy Capt. Wes Naylor.
UCF interim President Thad Seymour said in the Jan. 27 statement that when the university members find violations of trust, they must act. 
“We are also addressing other concerns raised in the investigation, including strengthening information security,” Seymour said in the statement. “While the investigation found no cybersecurity breaches, a university-wide group is working to ensure we are following new federal guidelines for protecting information systems.”
Seymour named Naylor as interim director of IST and said a national search for a new director will begin immediately. 



The UCF Knights will kick off the 2020-21 season on Sept. 4 against the North Carolina Tar Heels at home and are set to play seven home games and eight conference games this season.
The home-and-home series with the Tar Heels was set to begin in 2018 with UCF traveling to UNC, but the game was canceled as Hurricane Florence approached the Carolinas. 
The first three weekends of kickoff and television times  — along with midweek matchup details — will be released by the American Athletic Conference in May, according to a UCF Athletics news release.
UCF ranked No. 24 in the postseason AP Top 25 Poll on Jan. 14, and was ranked the highest Group of Five team in the preseason Football Power Index rankings — landing the No. 21 spot — on Monday.
No. 40 Cincinnati, No. 45 Houston, No. 51 Boise State, No. 57 Memphis and No. 62 BYU are all current or future UCF opponents that ranked in Monday’s preseason FPI rankings. 
The 2020-21 season will also mark the beginning of the 12-year media rights extension with ESPN, according to a press release.
“We are excited to announce our 2020 schedule as we enter the next phase of our longstanding relationship with ESPN,” AAC commissioner Mike Aresco said in a Tuesday press release. “ … I have no doubt that we will once again provide our fans, and ESPN, with compelling matchups throughout the season in both conference and nonconference play.”
The new agreement, which was announced in March 2019, will allow the conference to have a more extensive presence on ESPN’s primary TV networks – ABC, ESPN, ESPN2 and ESPNU, the release states. 
ESPN’s sports streaming service, ESPN+, will carry more than 11,000 events during the term of the agreement — including football, men’s and women’s basketball and Olympic sports contests — but will only feature 500 events during the 2020-21 season. 
In the 2021-22 season, 750 events will be added to ESPN+ and at least 1,000 events will be added to the platform each year during the contract, according to the release.
“As a proud member of The American, this is a big day for UCF,” UCF Director of Athletics Danny White said in a release about the media rights extension. “We feel strongly that our nationally competitive programs, at UCF and throughout the league, have proven that there are six power conferences in college athletics.”
ESPN has been the primary media rights holder for the conference since it began in 2013, according to the release.  



