UCF Athletics announced the Bounce House will allow about 11,000 spectators at UCF football’s home opener on Oct. 3 against the Tulsa Golden Hurricane.  
UCF Director of Athletics Danny White said in a Monday news release that UCF Athletics continues to work with the necessary officials on safety measures for home football games. 
White said UCF is currently approved for 25% occupancy in the Bounce House for the first home game and said he hopes UCF can host more games at some point during the season.
The Bounce House, previously known as Spectrum Stadium, has a seating capacity of 44,206, per UCF’s website. A 25% capacity limit would allow about 11,000 spectators.
#BREAKING: The #BounceHouse will allow 25% occupancy for #UCF football’s season opener on Oct. 3. Story to come — check back for updates. pic.twitter.com/Zaoi0qSuF2
“I am excited about the possibilities of playing football, but also disheartened for our team and fans that it will be done with a smaller number of spectators in attendance,” White said. “In addition, many of the game day traditions we have built will have to be put on hold this season in order to protect the health of our fans.”
White said more details will be provided Tuesday afternoon regarding tickets.
“Due to the reduced capacity of our stadium to start the season, we will sell tickets on a single-game basis,” White said. “Season-ticket holders will have multiple options for this season.”



UCF’s dashboard shows a total of 163 positive COVID-19 cases have been detected as part of UCF’s move-in process for on-campus residents — a process that started at the beginning of August. 
The university requires a COVID-19 test before checking in to on-campus housing, and the dashboard states 163 out of 5,925 tests were positive — a positivity rate of 2.75%.
Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data.
Last week, UCF’s total case count was 727 positive COVID-19 cases since March 10. Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10. 
In the week ending on Aug. 15, UCF’s dashboard showed 632 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic. 
UCF first unveiled its new dashboard on Aug. 12, which showed a total of 540 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
“We encourage students, faculty and staff to report any positive tests to us, whether or not you have been on or plan to go to any of our campuses,” the dashboard reads.
To report positive tests, ask questions about symptoms, and request a telehealth visit to be screened for possible testing, UCF has set up a COVID Line and can be reached at 407-823-2509.



