Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, Floridians still voted in increased record numbers in the 2020 presidential preference primaries.
Florida Secretary of State Laurel Lee said in a press conference that the Sunshine State had already reached nearly 2 million early and by-mail voters by Tuesday morning. 
“We are fortunate in Florida to have numerous options to cast our votes securely and safely,” Lee said.
Though other states like Louisiana and Ohio canceled their primaries due to the pandemic, the Florida Department of State put out a statement Friday saying they were working closely with authorities to assess the risks and follow health guidelines. 
Florida’s decision to remain open for elections paid off. Both mail-in and early voting ballots, plus the votes cast on election day Tuesday, make for a record total of over 5 million voters. A notable increase from the 4 million voters in the 2016 Florida Presidential Preference Primaries. 
Ultimately, voting was deemed a low-risk situation by Florida authorities, as they said they were not expecting big lines or crowds at the precincts and all voting machines and stations would be sanitized constantly. 
“We reached out to all Supervisor of Elections’ offices and have been assured that poll locations are prepared and equipped for voters,” Lee said during the press conference. “Supervisors have taken health precautions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19.”
Lee said all polls except one in Broward County opened on time Tuesday morning, and everything possible was being done to ensure that anyone who made it to the lines by 7 p.m. would get their chance to exercise their right to vote.  
To make voting accessible to all — especially for those concerned about COVID-19’s exposure — Lee said pick-up ballots were made available throughout early voting and all day Tuesday. 
The ballots could even be picked up by another individual, as long as the voter properly designated them on the official affidavit provided. The point was to make sure people were not in any danger while voting. 
“Sanitation and safety are our top priorities,” Lee said. 
While the nation waited for polls to close in Illinois and Arizona — the two other states also having elections on Tuesday — former Vice President Joe Biden is announced as the unofficial winner of the Florida Democratic Primary. The official results will be announced by March 31.
It was a comfortable win for Biden, who held a steady lead over Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) during the count. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump is still expected to remain the Republican nominee for the 2020 race, according to the Florida Division of Elections’ website.
Shahaan Khan, the director of political affairs for College Democrats at UCF, said if Biden wins the nomination, it will help bring a lot of support from the moderate Democratic establishment. “It’ll be good to know we have the support from up top,” Khan said. “We’ll be working tirelessly to get Trump out of office.” 
Khan said that working as an organization during the time of a national health emergency has been trying, as gathering in large groups is strongly discouraged right now.
“We honestly don’t know what to do,” Khan said. “We’ve been phone and text banking with different organizations, but unfortunately, we couldn’t organize something as a club.” 
Despite challenges, Khan said the College Democrats at UCF were fired up to stand behind the Democratic nominee, and Biden’s proposal to choose a woman as a running mate was a good idea as long as it serves public needs. 
“Bringing a woman on is a good step for his campaign,” Khan said. “Ultimately, I hope his VP pick is someone who represents the people’s interests.” 
The voter turnout was a testament to how this election season has engaged Floridians like Alina Alvarez, UCF sophomore psychology and creative writing double major.
Though disasters like hurricanes may be nothing new to Florida residents, novel pandemics — like COVID-19 — extending globally are new to many individuals. In a March 13 press release, elections officials said Americans have participated in elections during challenging times in the past, and are confident that voters can safely cast their vote based on the information from public health officials.
“I think it was pretty bold on Florida’s part to be honest,” Alvarez said about keeping the polls open Tuesday. “Like, it definitely wasn’t the safest choice. I don’t think I was afraid because I was so focused on voting.” 
Alvarez voted the University Unitarian Universalist Society, in Orange County, Florida, where she said she does not remember if cleaners were out or not — she said she was asked a lot of questions about where she had spent her time during spring break. 
As expected by Florida authorities, precincts were not crowded due to early and by-mail voting. Alvarez, who voted for Sanders, said her precinct was practically empty when she showed up around 11 a.m. She said this helped her breathe easy without fear of infection. 
“The polls were dead,” she said. “I wasn’t really worried about the exposure.”
For a state with a history of messy elections, Florida managed to pull off a model, successful and fair event this year.
The next Democratic primaries are set for Mar. 29 in Puerto Rico. 



Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer put new restrictions on the sale and consumption of alcohol in a St. Patrick’s Day press conference.
Dyer said the city has had a limited number of COVID-19 cases, but said it is clear how the pandemic is affecting the rest of the world and actions need to be taken to “flatten the curve.” 
“Gathering in groups can put lives at risk,” Dyer said. “Even if you’re healthy, you may not show signs or symptoms, you can still carry the virus and you can still pass it on to others who are susceptible.”
Dyer said for Orlando to flatten the curve, the community must be willing to take drastic measures to help prevent the spread of the virus and save the lives of our friends and family members. 
He said practicing social distancing and staying home as much as you can are very important during this time. 
Dyer said, effective immediately:
He said the city is not closing establishments, but prohibiting the consumption of alcohol on-premise at these establishments. 
Dyer said this does not apply to stores where alcohol is sold, but not consumed.  
He said the Orlando Police Department will be helping enforce the new rules, which he said were strategically put in place to ensure St. Patrick’s Day events do not prevent the practice of social distancing.
Dyer said he hopes individuals take the advice of CDC. 
Effective immediately, our city is prohibiting the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages at bars, clubs, restaurants, hotels or other venues where alcohol is typically consumed. pic.twitter.com/9q1Yuc3Hj0
“I think most of the bars want to close,” Dyer said. 
He said this action comes at the request of members of the hospitality industry and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Monday recommendations. 
He said he encourages individuals to order takeout or Uber Eats, and said he encourages restaurants to limit their capacity to 10. 
Dyer said part-time employees will continue to be paid during the conference — he cited Amway Center event employees and school crossing guards as the “ones who fall into that category.” 
Dyer declared a State of Emergency in the City of Orlando on Friday to further the efforts in fighting the spread of COVID-19 and ensure access to needed supplies, according to a press release. 
“COVID-19 is one of the greatest challenges our community has ever faced,” Dyer said. “Our goal right now is to stop the spread of the virus and it’s going to take us all working together …” UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin confirmed in a Monday email that UCF’s website is up to date and no UCF students have tested positive for COVID-19 to the university’s knowledge. 
Click to read the full executive order signed by Dyer.



