Positivity rates for student COVID-19 tests at UCF’s testing site were about 40.1% after UCF’s home football game, and about 11.5% after students in Greek life were randomly targeted for testing, according to positivity rate data obtained by Knight News.
In this week’s update, the positivity rate for student tests administered at the on-campus testing site was about 24.3% — compared to the 40.1% positivity rate last week. 
The positivity rate only accounts for student tests administered by UCF’s on-campus testing site and not any other results submitted to the university. Knight News has obtained data for the positivity rates for the last four weeks, and included the information below. 
Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data, but confirmed this information with UCF spokesman Chad Binette.
This week, UCF’s weekly COVID-19 dashboard update shows 116 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 81 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site in its most recent update. 
Students self-reported 33 positive tests and two faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 11 and Saturday, the dashboard shows. The group selected for random COVID-19 testing this week included students who reside in on-campus dorms, Binette said. 
Binette confirmed random testing did not take place during the last two weeks — between Sept. 27 and Oct. 10. Random testing first began with individuals who reside in on-campus Greek housing were the first to be selected on Sept. 21.
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, the university has been made aware of 1,544 total cases, both on and off campus. Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10.
[Note: This timeline begins Sept. 14 to ensure brevity and relevancy to the specific topic — please note, this does not define the start of UCF’s communication and response ]
Maribeth Ehasz, vice president for Student Development and Enrollment Services, updated the UCF community about a “new challenge” in a Sept. 14 statement — she informed the community that bars and nightclubs would be reopening.
A day later, Dr. Michael Deichen, associate vice president of UCF Student Health Services, updated the community about random COVID-19 testing.
Deichen, who initially announced his plans Sept. 4, said individuals in social Greek organizations are at a higher risk of contracting the virus at universities throughout the country, and Greek organizations will be the first targeted group selected for random COVID-19 testing. 
Knight News learned on Sept. 22 that UCF’s random COVID-19 testing would begin with a targeted group of on-campus Greek residents.
On Sept. 25, Gov. Ron DeSantis announced bars could reopen at full capacity as part of Phase 3 of Re-Open Florida. 
DeSantis said local governments have the ability to allow bars/pubs to open above 50% capacity. He said all outstanding fines and penalties will be vacated for anyone who has violated social distancing orders or mask mandates. This is effective immediately. #DevelopingStory https://t.co/UND8gEs6EB
On Sept. 28, UCF’s weekly dashboard update showed 94 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 41 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. The 41 positive tests include the results from the approximately 100 students who participated in the random COVID-19 testing, which UCF began Sept. 21.
Binette said in a Tuesday email that between Sept. 20 and Sept. 26, UCF’s on-campus testing site administered 358 COVID-19 tests and 41 were positive for COVID-19 — a positivity rate of about 11.5%. 
Additionally, students self-reported 51 positive tests and two faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Sept. 20 and Sept. 26.
UCF’s weekly dashboard update showed 95 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 30 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site the week of Sept. 27 to Oct. 3. 
Binette told Knight News that no random testing occurred during this week, and 204 tests were administered —  a positivity rate of about 14.7%.
Additionally, students self-reported 57 positive tests and eight faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Sept. 27 and Oct. 3.
UCF’s first home football game — which was approved for 25% occupancy, or about 11,000 spectators, but had just under 8,900 in attendance — against the Tulsa Golden Hurricane was on Oct. 3 at the Bounce House. 
There is limited field access due to #COVID19 safety precautions — here is our view of what the stands look like ⬇️ pic.twitter.com/TjADSVoqsm
Between Oct. 4 and Oct. 10, UCF’s weekly update showed 218 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 152 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. This is the highest recorded case count in a weekly update since UCF began recording data.
Binette said 379 tests were administered — with 152 positive cases — and the positivity rate was about 40.1%.
Following the home opener, UCF’s COVID-19 numbers marked the highest recorded case count in a weekly update since the university began keeping track of cases. 
Binette said the university has not identified any spread of COVID-19 resulting from fans attending the home football game at the Bounce House.
Knight News requested public records to provide clarity on this — and insight on UCF’s contact tracing — but the university has not yet provided any records.  
Additionally, students self-reported 61 positive tests and five faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 4 and Oct. 10.
Ehasz in an Oct. 13 statement that the UCF community must remain vigilant in all precautions and implied the spike in cases was related to social activities. 
“Unfortunately, the majority of the cases involve students, and contact tracing tells us that many of these cases generated from activity at bars, restaurants and small social gatherings,” Ehasz said. 
In the statement, Ehasz said when bars and restaurants reopened in September, UCF reminded its community to follow safety precautions. 
“We do not want to restrict our campus experience, including campus activities, football games and more,” Ehasz said. 
It is not known why an extreme spike in positivity rate would be documented around the same time as UCF football’s first home game — when bars have been open since Sept. 14 — but Knight News has requested records hoping to provide insight. 
Knight News asked if UCF has reason to believe the first home football game played a factor in individuals in the UCF community frequenting bars and participating in social activities since attendance was limited. UCF did not provide a direct response. 
Knight News requested UCF’s contact tracing records to seek clarity on its tracing methods and findings — UCF has not yet produced any records to support that cases can be traced to bars, or deny that claims can be traced to stadiums.
Oct. 13 — Monday 
Florida’s COVID-19 Data and Surveillance Dashboard shows an increase in positive COVID-19 cases in UCF’s zip code of 32816.
The dashboard states the positive COVID-19 cases are individuals that self-reported as being residents of Alafaya, Orlando, University Of Central FL, University Of Central Florida.
On Oct. 13, the health department’s dashboard showed 275 COVID-19 cases for UCF’s ZIP code. In a sea of red — or having over 300 cases in the population — UCF was an island of blue, having between 200-299 reported cases of COVID-19.
Just days later, UCF joined its neighboring ZIP codes and transitioned to red on the surveillance map — the health department’s dashboard showed 331 cases for UCF’s ZIP code on Friday.
On Sunday, the health department’s dashboard showed 342 cases for UCF’s ZIP code. 
Within 24 hours, 47 new cases of COVID-19 — totaling 389 cases — were reflected on the health department’s dashboard for UCF’s ZIP code on Monday.
On Tuesday, the health department’s dashboard showed 399 cases for UCF’s ZIP code. 
This is a developing story and may be updated with new information. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



The College Republicans at UCF will host an interactive conversation with UCFPD on Thursday to discuss current events and views on national events, and all UCF students are invited.
“This will be our first in person event of the semester and we chose to do this event in person because we think all good conversations begin with a dialogue, face to face,” UCF College Republicans Chairman Didi Malka said. 
Students must RSVP on Knight Connect to attend in person due to COVID-19 capacity limitations. The event will also be live-streamed on the UCF College Republicans Facebook page. 
The in-person component will be held in the Pegasus Ballroom in the Student Union on Thursday at 5 p.m.
The event will consist of a panel of five UCFPD officers and employees, as well as a moderator from College Republicans. The moderator will ask a series of questions, and then there will be a Q&A with students in the room and on Facebook live, Malka said. 
Malka said the College Republicans want to give UCF students the opportunity to hear directly from UCFPD to help spark a well-needed dialogue.
“There have been very few attempts from student organizations to give the police an opportunity to give their thoughts and opinions, and that is our main goal,” Malka said. “ We want to give UCFPD the opportunity to speak directly to students about their job and the risks involved. In simple terms, we want to hear their side of the story.” 
More information about Thursday’s event can be found here. 



After suffering a catastrophic knee injury that sidelined quarterback McKenzie Milton for nearly two seasons, the redshirt senior is another step closer to making his long-awaited return after being medically cleared. 
ESPN’s Andrea Adelson spoke with Milton about his rehabilitation process and what it’s like to be back on the field under center with UCF’s scout team.
In August, Milton’s mom posted that he’s heading into a new phase of recovery and that he’s “all the way back to great health,” after seeing his surgeon in Minneapolis.
 UCF QB McKenzie Milton’s mom says he’s heading into a new phase of recovery and “all the way back to great health.”‬ ‪“Knight Fans thank you for praying and encouraging KZ all the way back to great health,” Teresa Milton tweeted. “… His evaluation went very well …”‬
A post shared by  KnightNews.com (@ucfknightnews) on Aug 4, 2020 at 11:19pm PDT
Milton told Adelson that hearing his doctors tell him he would be able to play football again was a significant step in his recovery process. 
“Hearing those words after a year and three-quarters, I’m just really grateful for all the help I’ve had with the medical staff, and obviously the healing hands of God, lots of prayers from Knight Nation and all across the world,” Milton told Adelson. “I’m grateful for that, but I’m not satisfied. I’m going to continue to rehab and get better.”
After nearly having a leg amputated, Milton said he is determined to suit back up for the Knights this season by any means necessary. The QB has been taking snaps with the scout team, and on Tuesday, Milton posted a short clip of what appears to him running the field. 
“This is the most fun I’ve had in two years, being out there with the guys, going up against some good competition and lighting a fire under their butt,” Milton told Adelson. “I’m making throws on the move, I’m changing direction not thinking twice about it. I feel normal.”
Milton also expressed his perspective towards the remainder of his journey.
“My plan for this year is to continue to rehab and if my number’s called, my number’s called,” he said. “But I’m going to continue down the path and be the best teammate I can.” 
Milton told Adelson it has been fun watching UCF sophomore quarterback Dillon Gabriel take the reins and lead the Knights, but said it does get hard not playing at times. 
“We’re 2-2. We’ve got to shake back and try to get in the race to win our conference. I’m going to do my best to get our scout team rolling and get our defense some good looks and continue to help the guys in the quarterback room,” Milton told Adelson. “I’d love to play, but DG’s rolling so that’s our guy. We’re going to keep rolling with him.”
Milton said he knows his time will come, one way or the other. 
“[I’m] just staying patient, working on my craft getting better each day,” Milton said. 



