The UCF Student Government Senate voted Thursday night to allocate $17,875 of student funds to bring political commentator Ben Shapiro to UCF’s main campus.
The vote on Fiscal Bill 52-60 was favorable in its third reading with a final vote 25-15-2. It was previously unfavorable with a vote of 16-17-1 in its second reading. 
The @UCFSG senate votes favorably on Fiscal Bill 52-60 with a count of 25-15-2 to bring @benshapiro to campus. pic.twitter.com/DOIgkCyv6W
This decision comes after the College Republicans at UCF asked the senate to fund half of the event using students’ activity and services fee fund.
As of now, the event will be held on March 23 in the Pegasus Grand Ballroom. Seating will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis.
College Republicans Vice Chairman Didi Malka said the venue will accommodate a maximum of 1,000 individuals.
Many of those who attended Thursday’s open forum voiced their thoughts on funding Shapiro’s UCF visit. 
Fifty individuals took to the podium to speak their minds. Twenty-eight supported the bill, while 22 opposed it. 
Alexander Harris, president of UCF student organization Knights for Bernie, spoke out against the funding of the bill.
“I love free speech,” Harris said. “Free speech is wonderful. But if Ben Shapiro wants to speak to this campus, he can pay for it.”
College Republicans at UCF member Justin Figueroa asked the senate to vote in favor of the bill.
“There is no doubt that [College Republicans at UCF] has followed every rule to have Ben Shapiro come to our community,” Justin Figueroa said. “If you ever have a speaker you want to bring here, I promise I will fight for your rights to have your speaker come here.”
The UCF SG Senate held an open forum on Feb. 6, where current and graduated UCF students voiced their thoughts on bringing Shapiro to UCF’s campus.
Shapiro will be going on a nationwide campus tour during the spring 2020 semester through Young America’s Foundation, according to the foundation’s website. 
“Young America’s Foundation organizes the largest campus lecture program in the country,” said YAF spokesman Spencer Brown in a Wednesday email. “Of the speakers with whom YAF works, Ben Shapiro is the most-requested.”



Legal counsel for the two faculty members accused of helping a student obtain a doctoral degree in exchange for grant funding has filed letters to the university in response to their termination. 
In January, the director and two faculty members of UCF’s Institute for Simulation and Training were given notices of termination, following an investigation that started in fall 2018.
Lauren Reinerman-Jones and Daniel Barber received “Notice of Intent to Terminate” letters on Jan. 27.
Counsel for Reinerman-Jones and Barber submitted responses to UCF’s Notices of Intent to Terminate on Feb. 6, according to the release.
“We are reviewing the materials submitted on behalf of Dr. Barber and Dr. Reinerman-Jones as part of their due process,” UCF spokesman Chad Binette said in a Thursday email. 
In the letters of response addressed to Elizabeth Klonoff, dean of the College of Graduate Studies, the faculty member’s counsel states the initial press release UCF sent out was written a manner that deliberately damaged the reputation — and mischaracterized the allegations against — Reinerman-Jones and Barber. 
Both letters — signed by attorney Hal K. Litchford with the Baker Donelson firm — state neither Reinerman-Jones nor Barber can “understand entirely the basis for the Termination Notice and thus to respond fully and meaningfully.”
Litchford said the 109-page report is too heavily redacted.
According to the media summary provided by UCF, redactions to the report were made within Florida statutes. 
Reinerman-Jones’ letter, Litchford states the “sensational story UCF publicly released is unfounded factually and based on a sloppy and flawed investigation,” and that no factual evidence exists that Reinerman-Jones knew the Ph.D. student was managing the funding or that she was benefiting.
An investigation found #UCF Institute for Simulation and Training's faculty members were involved in helping a student obtain a doctoral degree in exchange for grant funding and with inappropriate assistance from faculty advisors and others. This is a #developing story. pic.twitter.com/EsT6tRTbBm
Litchford demanded an unreacted version of the document for both individuals to properly respond, each letter reads. 
In the letter, the attorney states the allegations that Reinerman-Jones violated UCF’s “Code of Conduct by failing to consistently treat graduate students working in labs at IST with respect and dignity” are unfounded and she denies ever treating students disrespectfully. 
The attorney wrote Reinerman-Jones was non-responsiveness to students was while she was on maternity leave and that it is “hard to imagine a more clear cut example of workplace discrimination.”
“Your decision to retaliate against Dr. Reinerman-Jones by terminating her employment based on tenuous speculation and incorrect information was made worse by UCF’s decision to issue a press release to the media”
The same phase was replicated in Barber’s letter.
“UCF’s actions to publish the Termination Notice to the media compounded the injury to Dr. Barber’s reputation, emotional and mental state, and livelihood and violated his rights,” Litchford wrote.
Knight News requested the termination letters through a public records request and published the letters, where it was each letter advised Reinerman-Jones and Barber of the university’s intention to terminate their employment at the end of the business day on Feb. 7.
Reinerman-Jones’ letter states “severe misconduct,” while Barber’s letter states “conduct” as the reason for the notice of intent to terminate.
A #whistleblower complaint led to the investigation by external firm Cohen Seglias Pallas Greenhall & Furman. In a statement, UCF said this firm was necessary because IST works with classified materials, so proper security clearances were necessary. pic.twitter.com/iueh7CTSO1
The release states Reinerman-Jones and Barber look forward to resolving this issue and clearing their names, and no further public comment on this matter.



