UCF Athletics announced more information on Tuesday regarding tickets and COVID-19 modifications in preparation for UCF football’s first home game. 
The release states a lottery style system will be used to distribute about 3,000 tickets to students for the home opener on Oct. 3 against the Tulsa Golden Hurricane.
On Monday, UCF Athletics announced the Bounce House will allow about 11,000 spectators at UCF football’s home opener. The Bounce House has a standard capacity of 44,206, according to UCF Athletics.
#BREAKING: The #BounceHouse will allow 25% occupancy for #UCF football’s season opener on Oct. 3. Story to come — check back for updates. pic.twitter.com/Zaoi0qSuF2
The release states officials will monitor the situation to determine if capacity limits can be increased during the season.
Fans will be required to wear masks at all times — other than while eating and drinking in their seats — due to COVID-19 safety precautions. 
Physical distancing is strongly encouraged in seating and common areas, but fans within groups may choose to sit together, the release states. 
“Now that we have a reviewed and supported plan for stadium occupancy by fans for home games this fall, we are ready to move forward — always with the health and well-being of our fans and student-athletes as our top priority,” UCF Director of Athletics Danny White said in the Tuesday release. 
Suites, field cabanas and other premium seating areas will be utilized, but at reduced capacities, the statement reads.
“We certainly appreciate that it has been a complicated spring and summer for our season-ticket holders and UCF fans in general as we awaited news on football for 2020,” White said.
All tickets will be sold and distributed on a single-game basis for UCF’s four home games. 
All tickets will be digital, and details will be provided for fans to access and utilize their tickets via smart phones, UCF Athletics said. 
Parking passes will be mailed as in past seasons — including all appropriate details relative to pass locations, RV parking and traffic flow, the release states.
UCF Athletics said there is no expectation for sales of any tickets to away games due to limited capacities at all venues, and fans interested in attending games at other stadiums will need to either purchase tickets directly through the home team’s ticket office or through the secondary market. 
UCF is scheduled to host four games at the Bounce House, all against American Athletic Conference opponents. The home opener against Tulsa on Oct. 3, Tulane on Oct. 24, Temple on Nov. 14, and Cincinnati on Nov. 21. 



UCF has been chosen as the preseason favorite  — ahead of the Cincinnati Bearcats — to win the American Athletic Conference for the third consecutive season in Tuesday’s preseason media poll. 
The Knights received 10 of the possible 20 first-place votes, while Cincinnati received seven first-place votes, according to the American’s news release. 
UCF enters the season ranked No. 21 in both the AP Top 25 and the Amway Coaches Poll — after finishing last season 10-3 overall — and will open its season at Georgia Tech on Sept. 19. 



