UCF’s weekly dashboard update shows 218 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 152 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. 
Additionally, students self-reported 61 positive tests and five faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 3 and Saturday, the dashboard shows. 
Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data. This week’s update marks the highest recorded case count in a weekly update since UCF has recorded COVID-19 numbers, the dashboard indicates. Knight News has reached out to UCF for comment. 
UCF began randomly selecting targeted groups of students for COVID-19 testing on Sept. 21. Individuals who lived in on-campus Greek housing were the first to be selected. 
UCF spokesman Chad Binette said that students living in residence halls will be the next group of individuals selected for random testing, but that no group — or random testing — has been targeted since Greek life students were selected. 
Knight News obtained public records that show what other groups on campus may be selected for random COVID-19 testing. 
Dr. Michael Deichen, vice president of Student Health Services, said in an email to senior leadership on Sept. 16 that the following groups on campus have been identified for random COVID-19 testing and listed the groups in no particular order: 
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, the university has been made aware of 1,428 total cases, both on and off campus. Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10.
Last week, the dashboard showed 95 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 30 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. Students self-reported 57 positive tests and eight faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Sept. 26 and Oct. 3, the dashboard shows. 
For the week ending Sept. 26, the dashboard showed 94 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 41 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. The 41 positive tests included results from the random COVID-19 testing of 100 students that reside in on-campus Greek life housing, which UCF began on Sept. 21.
UCF’s dashboard showed 95 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 37 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site from the start of the pandemic through Sept. 19.
UCF’s dashboard showed that 97 new cases were reported and a total of 926 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 12.
UCF’s dashboard showed that 75 new cases were reported and a total of 829 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 5.
UCF’s dashboard showed that a total of 754 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through the week ending on Aug. 29.
In the week ending on Aug. 22, the dashboard showed 727 positive COVID-19 cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
In the week ending on Aug. 15, UCF’s dashboard showed 632 total cases reported to the university since March 10.
UCF first unveiled its new dashboard on Aug. 12, which showed a total of 540 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
“We encourage students, faculty and staff to report any positive tests to us, whether or not you have been on or plan to go to any of our campuses,” the dashboard reads.
To report positive tests, ask questions about symptoms or to request a telehealth visit to be screened for possible testing, call UCF’s COVID Line at 407-823-2509.
This article has been updated with additional information regarding the scope of selection for random testing. 



