The 1,000-foot-wide telescope at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico will undergo a controlled disassembly after a second cable broke and its structure is in danger of catastrophic failure. 
The decommissioning of the massive radio telescope comes after a review of engineering assessments called its structural integrity into question, a Thursday news release states. It is expected to take several weeks of planning before decommissioning will begin.
The telescope, which was in operation for 57 years, was the largest fully operational radio telescope on the planet and expanded the scientific community’s knowledge of space, the release states. 
The Arecibo Observatory, which is managed by UCF under a cooperative agreement, is owned by the National Science Foundation. After an auxiliary cable broke in August and a main cable at the beginning of this month, NSF had engineering assessments completed. 
NSF’s primary engineering firm said it should be decommissioned, and a review of the assessment by two additional engineering firms concluded any attempt to make repairs would pose a threat to human life, the release states.
NSF Director Sethuraman Panchanathan said in the release that NSF’s top priority is the safety of workers, and the observatory’s staff and visitors — he said it makes the decision to disassemble the telescope necessary, but unfortunate.
“For nearly six decades, the Arecibo Observatory has served as a beacon for breakthrough science and what a partnership with a community can look like,” Panchanathan said. “While this is a profound change, we will be looking for ways to assist the scientific community and maintain that strong relationship with the people of Puerto Rico.”
The observatory was built in the 1960s, and the facility has since endured several hurricanes and earthquakes, the release states. The observatory’s recent troubles began on Aug. 10, when an auxiliary cable broke and caused a 100-foot gash on the telescope’s reflector dish.
When the cable fell, it damaged numerous panels inside the dome and possibly put additional stress on the remaining cables — this caused the UCF-managed facility to cease all operations until an investigation was completed on what caused the cable to fail, the release states.
An update was provided on Oct. 12 with  no culprit of what caused the auxiliary cable to fail — UCF outlined what had been done to date to repair the cable which included a complete safety assessment, shipping the socket involved in the failure to NASA Kennedy Space Center for further evaluation, and completing a review for a possible repair plan. 
A second, main cable that supports the observatory broke on Nov. 6, causing additional damage to the dish and other nearby cables. Both the auxiliary cable and the main cable were connected to the same support tower, a news release states.
UCF President Alexander Cartwright said in a news release that the university’s team, alongside the NSF, has worked tirelessly to find ways to stabilize the telescope with minimal risk — he said it isn’t possible. 
“While this outcome is not what we had been working towards, and we are disheartened to see such an important scientific resource decommissioned, safety is our top priority,” Cartwright said. “At a time when public interest and scientific curiosity about space and the skies has re-intensified, there remains much to understand about the data that has been acquired by Arecibo.”
The Arecibo Observatory is considered a cultural treasure in Puerto Rico and is visited by thousands of school children each year, and visitors from around the world, the release states.
Cartwright said that despite this disappointing setback, the university remains committed to the scientific mission in Arecibo and to the local community in Puerto Rico. 
UCF will work with NSF to implement the safety plans and authorizations needed to begin the decommissioning process, which is not expected to begin for several weeks. The release states the goal is to keep as many parts intact for future reuse. 
Check back with Knight News for updates.



As freshman walk-on, running back Greg McCrae said he couldn’t have imagined he would have such an impact on the UCF football team.
“I never imagined all the things all that would have happened, all the  success of the program and being part of the program,” he said. “I just wanted to be part of a team and I ended up being part of a family.”
Now, in his senior year, McCrae said when he reflects on the legacy he is leaving on the program, he wants to remember how hard he worked. 
“I want myself to know, and all of Knight Nation, that every time I was out [on the field], I gave everything I had — every play, every snap, every second,” he said. 
McCrae said until the clock hit double zeros, he wants to remember the hard worker who gave his all, whether it was during practice or in a game. 
“I want to be remembered as someone that no matter what he was going through, what was going on in the game, what the scoreboard said, I gave everything I had from snap to final whistle,” he said. 
Looking back, McCrae said if there is one piece of advice he could give to himself as a freshman — knowing what he does now — it would be to trust the process. 
“I feel like when you come in at a young age — and I think that’s everybody — you just want to be in there and you wanna be so friendly, and ready to play and get in there,” he said. 
Learning from his experiences, McCrae said if he could tell the younger version of himself something, it would be that there is a process. 
“Trust the coaches, trust what they’re telling you,” he said. “Everything will work out.”
Here’s a brief breakdown of McCrae’s time at UCF. 
After spending a summer on scholarship with the Navy Midshipmen, then-freshman McCrae made the tough decision to transfer to UCF and walk-on to the football team. 
In his first season, McCrae appeared in 13 games at running back and on special teams — he  totaled 151 yards on 26 carries with two touchdowns during the 2017-18 season. 
McCrae ended his first season as a walk-on helping the Knights go undefeated in the regular season and earn a New Year’s Six Bowl bid. UCF went on to beat Auburn in the 2018 Chick-fil-a Peach Bowl. 
Before the start of his sophomore season, McCrae was greeted by UCF police  officers at the football facility looking for him — McCrae told UCF Today that the officers said they were there to arrest him for unpaid parking tickets, but UCF head football coach Josh Heupel had other plans. 
Heupel asked the officers if McCrae’s scholarship would cover the cost of the parking tickets, and McCrae said that’s how he learned he was on scholarship.
Congratulations @NikeheadGreg! We're sorry about the prank but we are so happy we were able to play a small part in your big day! #ChargeOn https://t.co/mNpl070x1X
McCrae said during an interview that he was fueled by not having a ton of scholarship offers in high school.
“I had a lot of people doubt me. A lot of people didn’t think I could do it,” he told UCF Today. in 2018 “Being able to go out there and get better every day and prove people wrong is something that I take pride in.”
McCrae played all 13 games in his sophomore year, totaling 1,182 yards on the ground on 133 touches with nine touchdowns — he scored 10 touchdowns in the season. 
He topped 100 yards rushing three times, including one 200-yard outing, and recorded 17 plays of 20 yards or more, seven of which went for scores, during the season. 
McCrae led the team in net rushing yards, yards per carry, rushing touchdowns and rushing yards per game. 
During his junior year, McCrae played in 10 games, where he started six times at running back, and contributed 529 rushing yards on 98 attempts with seven rushing touchdowns. 
The junior running back averaged 5.4 yards per carry and added nine receptions for 64 yards during the season. 
McCrae holds the career record with a yards-per-carry average of 7.2 per carry — he’s tallied 19 career rushing touchdowns and has 1,862 career rushing yards. 
McCrae said he’s confident in his character and whatever legacy he leaves here is up for Knight Nation to decide. 
“I’ll leave it up to them to say how they want to remember me,” he said. “I know my character and who I am, so however they remember me and whatever legacy I leave, I leave when I leave here — that’s up to the people to say.” 
During a Wednesday press conference, McCrae was asked if he’s given any thought to the additional year of eligibility he will have due to COVID-19 eligibility waivers.
The senior running back said he’s put that thought on the backburner while preparing for the matchup against Cincinnati at the Bounce House on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
“As of right now, I’m just focused on this game,” he said.
The Knights will face their toughest matchup this season on Saturday against the No. 7 Cincinnati Bearcats. 



