UCF has no confirmed cases of COVID-19 and the university is working with local and state health departments to be prepared, UCF interim President Thad Seymour Jr. said in a statement.  
“UCF continues to closely monitor the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) and has assembled a team of emergency management, health and other officials from across the university to plan necessary precautions and help make decisions related to the virus,” Seymour said in the statement.
Seymour said the university will continue to monitor and meet regularly to prepare for potential impacts to the university. 
While @UCF has no reported cases of the #coronavirus, we've got an incredible team @UCF working with local and state health departments and taking proactive steps to help our community be prepared.Thank you for all you do to keep our community safe! pic.twitter.com/rv4zTXDmnw
According to the statement, campus is not expected to close. 
“Any decisions will be made based on guidance from the Board of Governors and public health officials, with the health and safety of everyone at UCF being priorities,” the statement reads. 
 UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said in a Tuesday email that faculty members have been encouraged to consider contingency plans for course delivery. 
“On Monday, UCF launched [UCF Keep Teaching], a robust online resource to help faculty members deliver online learning should there be need,” Gilmartin said.
UCF lists the following tips on its website to help prevent the spread of respiratory viruses such as COVID-19:
 For the most current information on travel restrictions, check the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s website or UCF Global’s website. 
Click to read more. 



Twenty-four members of the College Republicans at UCF attended the Conservative Political Action Conference in National Harbor, Maryland, College Republicans Vice Chairman Didi Malka said. 
“It has been 10 days since the conference ended. No members have exhibited any symptoms and the incubation period of 5-12 days has almost passed,” Malka said. “It’s important to note that according to the ACU, the attendee infected was never in the main ballroom, where our members were for most of CPAC. We are remaining vigilant and will continue to monitor the situation.”
Please read the latest #CPAC2020 Health Update re #coronavirus. pic.twitter.com/SJFwLTbmFm
According to Politico, a CPAC attendee infected with coronavirus attended multiple days of the event.
Congressman Gaetz was informed today that he came into contact with a CPAC attendee 11 days ago who tested positive for COVID-19.
Gaetz was informed Tuesday his COVID-19 test came back negative but said in a tweet he will continue to self-quarantine. 
I've just been informed that my COVID-19 lab result was negative. In an abundance of caution, I will remain under self-quarantine at the advice of medical professionals through Thursday at 2pm. I continue to feel fine and show no symptoms.
UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said in a Tuesday email that UCF has not yet been heavily affected by the Coronavirus.
“We do not know whether conditions will rise to a level that requires UCF to implement a significant response,” Gilmartin said. “However, faculty members have been encouraged to consider and develop contingency plans for course delivery.”
UCF interim President Thad Seymour Jr. said in a campus update that UCF has assembled a team of emergency management, health and other officials from across the university to plan necessary precautions and help make decisions related to the virus.
“UCF has no confirmed cases of COVID-19 …  Our team will continue to meet regularly to prepare for potential impacts on the university and our operations,” Seymour said in the statement. “Together, we will make sure to provide you with information you need to be prepared.”



Danny White, vice president and director of athletics at UCF, signed a new 5-year contract on Friday.
White’s new contract — which began March 6 and continues through May 10, 2025 — has a base salary of $1,081,500 per year. 
White’s previous contract — which began May 11, 2018 and continued through May 10, 2023 — had a base salary of $1,030,000 per year. 
“As much pride as we take in what UCF athletics has been able to accomplish the last few years, in so many ways we have just scratched the surface of our potential,” White said in a news release. “I’m thrilled that we will be able to continue progressing towards our goal of making UCF a perennial top-25 athletics program.”
“Danny has excelled at building a nationally recognized athletics program where our student-athletes are thriving academically and in competition,” UCF interim President Thad Seymour Jr. said in a news release. “The Knights are one of the most exciting teams in the nation, and I can’t wait to see what our student-athletes and coaches accomplish under Danny’s leadership in the years ahead.”
White thanked Seymour Jr., along with the donors and sponsors who share the same ambitious vision. 
“I couldn’t be more committed to building UCF for the long term,” White said in the release. “I am humbled to be able to lead such a talented group of coaches, staff, and student-athletes who make it all happen.”
This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 



