UCF sent its first wave of emails to 100 random students within the Greek community requiring participation in a COVID-19 test or the possibility of being turned in to student conduct. 
Knight News has requested public records and is working to understand if it’s legal to target students based on their associations.
The email states testing is scheduled to begin next week. 
BREAKING: #UCF has sent out its first wave of required testing emails."Your name has been randomly selected for required COVID-19 testing, which we are conducting to help determine how prevalent the virus is among our UCF community." Previous coverage: https://t.co/42oURU1dDN pic.twitter.com/BhJaEuIsq3
The email alert sent to individuals randomly selected states results will be available in approximately 48 hours through the Aventus Biolabs patient portal. 
The email informs the Greek life members the COVID-19 test will be a nasal swab. Individuals are permitted to resume normal activities while practicing COVID-19 prevention guidelines as they wait for test results.
If individuals do not comply,  a report will be sent to the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity for non-compliance with the quarantine directive. 
“Thank you for participating and helping to reduce the risk of COVID at UCF,” the email sent to the 100 members within UCF’s Greek life reads. 
Dr. Michael Deichen, associate vice president of UCF Student Health Services, said on Tuesday that individuals who do come to campus and refuse to be tested may be required to self-isolate and remain off campus — he said individuals may be subject to disciplinary action.
On Sept. 4, Deichen said rapid COVID-19 testing would be available to the UCF community in an announcement about starting random, targeted testing on campus. 
“I will share more about this soon,” Deichen said in the Sept. 4 announcement. “But our goal is to test both random and targeted groups to detect possible outbreaks on campus or identify emerging trends in positivity rates.”
It is unclear when UCF will begin the rapid COVID-19 testing. 



