UCF’s COVID-19 dashboard shows 57 new positive cases, with 13 positive cases self-reported by university faculty and staff members. 
UCF spokesman Chad Binette said 133 student tests were administered by UCF’s on-campus testing site between Nov. 29 and Saturday and 20 tests were positive for COVID-19 — about a 15% positivity rate for students tested at the on-campus testing site. 
Additionally, students self-reported 24 positive COVID-19 tests, the dashboard shows. Knight News has not obtained records to independently verify this data.
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, the university has been made aware of 2,307 total cases, both on and off-campus. 
Of the total cases, 219 positive cases have been self-reported by faculty and staff members, the dashboard shows. This is about 9.5% of all UCF’s positive cases since March 10 — Knight News previously confirmed with UCF the first reported case was on March 10.
Knight News has obtained the positivity rate data for student tests administered on-campus for the last 11 weeks — the positivity rate only accounts for tests administered by UCF’s on-campus testing site and not other results submitted to the university.
Nov. 29 to Dec. 5:
Nov. 22 to Nov. 28:
From the start of the pandemic through Saturday, UCF’s on-campus testing parter has confirmed a total of 1,061 student tests positive for COVID-19. The university has been made aware of an additional 858 self-reported student cases of COVID-19. 
Here’s a breakdown of the most recent update: 
For the week ending on Nov. 28, the dashboard showed 74 new positive cases, with 14 positive cases self-reported by university faculty and staff members. This marked the highest number of self-reported faculty and staff COVID-19 cases the university has recorded on its dashboard.
Additionally, 186 student tests were administered by UCF’s on-campus testing and 14 tests were positive, while students self-reported 46 positive COVID-19 tests between Nov. 22 and Nov. 27. 
For the week ending on Nov. 21, there were 70 new positive cases. There were 26 positive tests at the on-campus testing site, which is about a positivity rate of 10.4%.
Students self-reported 36 positive COVID-19 tests, and faculty and staff self-reported 8 positive tests between Nov. 15 and Nov. 21. 
For the week ending on Nov. 14, there were 136 new positive cases, and student tests had a positivity rate of 18.3%.
Students self-reported 80 positive COVID-19 tests, and faculty and staff self-reported 12 positive tests between Nov. 8 and Nov. 14. 
For the week ending on Nov. 7, the dashboard showed the second consecutive week of record self-reported faculty and staff cases with 13 positive for COVID-19. 
There were also 130 new positive COVID-19 cases in the update —  56 of the positive tests were reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site and 61 students self-reported positive tests during the week of Nov. 1 to Nov. 7.
For the week ending on Oct. 31, the dashboard showed the highest number of self-reported faculty or staff cases in a weekly update with 10 new positive tests.
There were also a total of 107 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 37 of the positive tests reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site between Oct. 25 and Oct. 31. 
For the week ending on Oct. 24, the dashboard showed the highest number of self-reported student cases in a weekly update with 110 new positive tests.
There were a total of 183 new positive COVID-19 cases reported, with 67 of the positive tests reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. Faculty or staff members self-reported six positive tests between Oct. 18 and Oct. 24.
For the week ending on Oct. 17, the dashboard update showed 116 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 81 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site.
Students self-reported 33 positive tests and two faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 11 and Oct. 17.
For the week ending on Oct. 10, the dashboard update showed 218 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 152 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site.
Students self-reported 61 positive tests and five faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Oct. 4 and Oct. 10 — the update marked the highest recorded case count in a weekly update since UCF has recorded COVID-19 numbers. 
For the week ending on Oct. 3, the dashboard showed 95 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 30 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site.
Students self-reported 57 positive tests and eight faculty or staff members self-reported positive tests between Sept. 26 and Oct. 3, the dashboard shows.
For the week ending on Sept. 26, the dashboard showed 94 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 41 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site. The 41 positive tests included results from the random COVID-19 testing of 100 students that reside in on-campus Greek life housing, which UCF began on Sept. 21.
For the week ending on Sept. 19, UCF’s dashboard showed 95 new positive COVID-19 cases, with 37 of the positive tests being reported by UCF’s on-campus testing site from the start of the pandemic through Sept. 19.
For the week ending on Sept. 12, UCF’s dashboard showed that 97 new cases were reported and a total of 926 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 12.
For the week ending on Sept. 5, UCF’s dashboard showed that 75 new cases were reported and a total of 829 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through Sept. 5.
For the week ending on Aug. 29, UCF’s dashboard showed that a total of 754 positive COVID-19 cases had been reported to the university since the start of the pandemic through the week ending on Aug. 29.
For the week ending on Aug. 22, the dashboard showed 727 positive COVID-19 cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
For the week ending on Aug. 15, UCF’s dashboard showed 632 total cases reported to the university since March 10.
UCF first unveiled its new dashboard on Aug. 12, which showed a total of 540 total cases reported to the university since the start of the pandemic.
“We encourage students, faculty and staff to report any positive tests to us, whether or not you have been on or plan to go to any of our campuses,” the dashboard reads.
To report positive tests, ask questions about symptoms or to request a telehealth visit to be screened for possible testing, call UCF’s COVID Line at 407-823-2509.
Check back with Knight News for COVID-19 updates.



UCF may serve as a mass COVID-19 vaccination site in the spring, and the university will encourage students, faculty and staff to get vaccinated in the interest of UCF’s health and safety. 
Dr. Michael Deichen, associate vice president of UCF Student Health Services, said it is encouraging that multiple COVID-19 vaccine candidates are demonstrating high effectivity but that must not stop UCF’s efforts to spreading the virus during the holiday season.
“Decisions about timelines, prioritization and the type of vaccine will be made by the state of Florida,” Deichen said. “Due to limited supply, we can expect a scaled approach that will first prioritize the most vulnerable and those working in high-risk areas, followed by wider availability.
Deichen said while the plan for distribution is under development, it is important to understand that the vaccine is intended to teach the immune systems how to recognize and fight the virus. He said sometimes this process can cause symptoms — such as fever — which are normal in the short-term and a sign of building immunity.
“It typically takes time for the body to build immunity after vaccination, which means it is possible to get COVID-19 just after vaccination because the vaccine has not had enough time to provide protection,” Deichen said.
Deichen said people who have already had COVID-19 will still be advised to get a vaccine because public health experts do not yet know how long someone is protected from getting sick again.
“While a vaccine gives us great hope, there will not be an immediate flip of the switch back to our pre-COVID lives,” he said. “The leading vaccine contenders require two shots at least three weeks apart.”
Deichen said masks, physical distancing and other health precautions will be necessary until enough people are vaccinated to significantly suppress community infections.
Deichen said as SHS prepares to provide the vaccine to members of the campus community — in collaboration with public health officials and partners from across UCF — the university needs everyone to continue to Armor Up.
He said if an individual has concerns about exposure to stay away from others and get tested. 
Deichen said COVID-19 testing is readily available across Central Florida and continues to be offered at UCF in Garage A, with most insurers covering costs.
To request testing, students and employees should call the UCF COVID Line at 407-823-2509.
The CDC is sharing more information about COVID-19 vaccines, and UCF will provide updates about our campus vaccine program when the university has new information to share.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.



The UCF Knights have accepted an invitation to the RoofClaim.com Boca Raton Bowl and will likely face an Atlantic Coast Conference opponent on Dec. 22 at 7 p.m.
UCF Athletics said tickets for the game are not currently on sale to the public, and a limited public sale is expected at a later date with pandemic protocols in place. 
The game has been approved for 20% stadium capacity, or 6,000 individuals. FAU Stadium’s full capacity is 30,000, according to FAU’s website. 
UCF said donors and season-ticket holders will receive information Wednesday morning from the UCF Ticket Office.
“We’re excited to continue our season in the Boca Raton Bowl — a great location for our fans and families to see us play,” UCF Director of Athletics Danny White said. “Our football team in 2020 has been one of the most exciting to watch in the country, and the fact we will be playing in the postseason for a fifth consecutive year speaks to the consistency of our program.”
UCF currently ranks second in the nation in both total offense — with 585.6 yards per game — and passing — 373.0 yards — while scoring at a 44.3-point-per-game pace. Both the total offense and passing yard figures are on track to be all-time UCF high, UCF Athletics said in a release. 
“Our players and staff are excited to be in this bowl game,” UCF head coach Josh Heupel said. “It gives our guys one more time to play together and gives us one more chance to go 1-0. We’ve done a lot of good things this year, and we look forward to this next opportunity.” 



