UCF’s Vice President and General Counsel Scott Cole will step down from his position as the university’s chief legal officer at the end of the month. 
Cole said in a Thursday news release that the decision comes after 19 years of service to UCF.
“It has been an honor and a privilege to be here since 2002 when I joined a still young but growing public metropolitan university, one that still had crushed gravel in its commuter parking lots, but big dreams in the hearts and minds of every student,”  Cole said. 
Cole will remain with UCF as a consultant, focused on transitioning his work portfolio beginning Dec. 1. 
“Looking back, it’s been an amazing run. But, 19 years is a long time and this General Counsel is ready to look forward,” he said. “With excitement about my future, I wish the board, the president and every member of the UCF community continued success in UCF’s unfolding story.”
Youndy Cook, associate vice president and senior deputy general counsel will serve as interim vice president and general counsel while the university begins a national search to fill the role.
Cook has served in the Office of the General Counsel since April 2002 where she first began as associate general counsel, and then as deputy general counsel, the release states. 
The Office of the General Counsel provides legal advice and services to the UCF Board of Trustees and university administrators, according to its website. 
“Cook has worked closely with the board of trustees, university leadership and departments and units across the university on a wide variety of issues, including employment issues, litigation, student affairs, policies and procedures, regulations and contracts,” UCF Assistant Vice President for Communications Chad Binette wrote in the release. 
Current and former members of the university community took to social media to share thoughts on Cole’s departure. 
Former UCF Chief of Staff Grant Heston — who stepped down from his roles as chief of staff and vice president of Communications and Marketing on Jan. 3 — said Cole is a true leader.
They don't get much better than Scott Cole! A true leader who will be missed! @knightgators https://t.co/Yfr2xOSzLk
Jennifer Cerasa, senior associate general counsel for the UCF Foundation, expressed how lucky she is to have worked under someone who cares about UCF as much as Cole.  
Scott Cole to Conclude 19-Year Career as UCF’s General Counsel on Nov. 30 https://t.co/JBo90NclbH .  How lucky am I to have worked under someone who cares about this institution and his people so much?
The Office of the General Counsel is also the office that public records requests go through. 
“Before documents are released pursuant to a public records request, any exempt documents or exempt information contained within the documents will be removed,” its website states. “This determination will be made by the Office of the General Counsel.” 
Knight News will continue to cover the national search for UCF’s new general counsel — check back for updates. 



