UCF plans to eliminate physical distancing requirements and could allow fans back in the Bounce House at 100% capacity this fall.
The university said it will begin largely operating the way it did before the pandemic, beginning on June 23. 
“This includes eliminating physical distancing requirements and allowing for full participation in athletic and social events,” a news release reads. 
The school first said in March it planned for a full face-to-face return this fall, but said the announcement did not apply to UCF Athletics. 
UCF Athletics spokesman John Heisler told Knight News in March that season tickets were being sold in anticipation of 100% capacity this fall.
Programs like LSU have announced they allow 100% fan capacity for all outdoor sporting events and masks will no longer be required. Fans are also allowed to resume normal tailgating activities on campus with no COVID-related restrictions.
UCF said in the statement the changes in COVID-19 protocols reflect the campus community’s efforts to get vaccinated and the low number of COVID-19 cases — the changes are also following guidance from the Florida Board of Governors. 
The university encourages those who have not been vaccinated to do so and to learn more about debunked vaccine myths.
UCF also said that while masks on-campus will still be encouraged for its faculty and students, they will no longer be required.
The changes will also include more employees returning to their pre-COVID workspaces.
UCF previously said it plans to lift capacity restrictions and offer most courses in-person as it is planning a full return to face-to-face operations for the fall 2021 semester. More details will be provided about what the shift to pre-COVID operations will mean for classes, workspaces, activities, events and athletics.
The university also said more information — including additional guidance to assist employees and managers regarding expectations — will be shared soon. 
UCF will be updating its COVID-19 policies to reflect these changes. The current emergency COVID policies include: 
At the time of publication, the university has not yet updated the COVID-19 policies.
The university also said that the UCF Student Health Center will begin distributing additional vaccines starting next week. More information will be shared about scheduling an appointment — masks are still required at the health center.
Knights who will be seeing us in-person: please note that SHS is exempt from UCF's updated face covering guidelines.For the safety of our patients, we still require face coverings to be worn inside our building. Thank you for your continued cooperation! #ArmorUpandChargeOn pic.twitter.com/J3rtwurCCv
UCF’s efforts to prevent COVID-19 will continue in the summer and fall, including testing, contact tracing, and the COVID Line. 
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



UCF announced masks will no longer be required on campus, and it started on Monday.
The school said that while masks on-campus will still be encouraged for its faculty and students, they will no longer be required. 
“Following guidance from the Board of Governors and in collaboration with the other State University System institutions, effective May 10, 2021, UCF encourages rather than requires our campus community to wear face coverings indoors and to follow CDC guidelines on our campuses and everywhere you go,” the school’s website reads.
This policy change means professors can’t require students to wear masks while in class, and UCF said it reflects “our campus community’s many efforts to get vaccinated and the low number of COVID-19 cases at UCF.”
The only exception is that masks will still be required at the Student Health Center because it is a medical building — UCF’s previous requirement said to wear face coverings everywhere.
Check back with Knight News for updates.



