Former UCF standout linebacker Shaquem Griffin has found a new home in Miami, signing a one-year deal with the NFL’s Miami Dolphins.  This was announced just five hours after it was reported Griffin was visiting the team.
The #Dolphins are signing ex-#Seahawks LB Shaquem Griffin to a 1-year deal, source said. Some LB depth and special teams help. Colleague @TomPelissero had reported he was in for a visit. Now, he’s sticking around.
Prior to becoming a free agent this past offseason, Griffin spent the previous three seasons playing for the Seattle Seahawks, where he was teammates with his brother Shaquill Griffin – who is also a former standout Knight.
During his three years in Seattle, the linebacker appeared in 46 total games.  During those games, the former Knight tallied up a total of 25 tackles, six quarterback hits, and one sack.  
Before being selected by the Seahawks in the fifth round of the 2018 NFL Draft, Griffin spent five years playing for the Knights.  Griffin – who had his left hand amputated at the age of four – is one of the most inspirational players to ever suit up in a UCF uniform.
During his five-year tenure with the Knights, Griffin recorded a total of 105 tackles, 18.5 sacks, five fumble recoveries, four forced fumbles, two interceptions, and a touchdown.  His 18.5 sacks is tied for the 10th-most in UCF football history.
During his 2016 junior season, the Knight standout led the team in tackles for loss with 20 on the year.  In addition, he led the team with his 11.5 sacks, which is the sixth-most in a season in UCF history.  Ultimately, he would finish the season ranked no. 12 in the nation in sacks and no. 13 in tackles for loss.
Griffin’s 2016 dominance earned him the honor of American Athletic Conference Defensive Player of the Year.  Additionally, he was dubbed First Team All-Conference.
Griffin’s superb play would carry on into his senior season.  The former Knight recorded 74 tackles on the season, which was the team’s third-most.  Griffin additionally tallied up 13 TFLs and seven sacks on the year.
These accolades earned him AAC All-Conference First Team honors, as well as ESPN All-Bowl Team honors.  Griffin was also dubbed as the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl Defensive MVP for his exceptional 12-tackle performance in the UCF win, which is a career-high.
Griffin will look to make his case for a roster spot, as the Dolphins are set to travel to Chicago to face the Bears on Aug. 14 for their first game of the 2021 preseason.



