UCF announced David Gibbs as the new co-defensive coordinator and secondary coach, and Knight News obtained Hand’s employee agreement on Thursday.
Gibbs’ contract runs through Jan. 31, 2023, and states his annual rate of pay is $450,000.
The full agreement can be seen here.
This is a developing story and will be updated with new information. Check back with Knight News for updates.



UCF announced Herb Hand as the new offensive line coach, and Knight News obtained Hand’s employee agreement on Thursday.
Hand’s contract runs through Jan. 31, 2023, and states his annual rate of pay is $300,000.
The full agreement can be read here.
This is a developing story and will be updated with new information. Check back with Knight News for updates.



After a week of exciting new hires for the UCF’s football program, UCF Athletics released the official schedule for the 2021-22 football season highlighting what the Knights will face this season. 
The Knights are set to kick off their 2021 season with a home season opener against Boise State on either Sept. 2, 3, or 4 — the date has yet to be decided. 
This will be the first time the Knights will meet with Boise State in football. 
The Knights will travel to face off against another non-conference game against Louisville on Sept. 17 for the first time since their last meeting in 2013 which ended in an impressive UCF victory. 
UCF will face Bethune-Cookman University on Sept. 11 in a home game for the first time since 2014 — the Knights lead the series 11-5 and have not lost to them since 1985.
Wrapping up the non-conference games, the “Civil conFLiCT” is back as the Knights take on UConn on Nov. 20 for the first time since the Huskies left the American Conference to become Independent.
Amongst this season’s American Athletic Conference home games, East Carolina will be coming to Orlando to face UCF on Oct. 9.
Memphis comes back to Orlando on Oct. 22 for the first time since the AAC Championship game in 2018, as the Knights seek to add another win to the overall series against Memphis which is 13-2, with the Tigers claiming a win by one point in last year’s nail-biting game. 
Tulane will be facing off in the Bounce House on Nov. 26 and rounding off the home games for the season we have the War on I-4 game against South Florida on Nov. 26 with the Knights not having lost to USF since 2016, UCF looks to finally take a lead in the series which is now 6-6 as of the 2020 season.
In the 2021 AAC away games, the Knights will travel to Annapolis to face Navy on Oct. 2, for the first time since 2018. 
UCF will travel to face Cincinnati on Oct. 16 — the Knights have not won a game against the Bearcats since 2018. 
Cincinnati was ranked No. 8 in the AP and Coaches poll last season, winning the 2020 AAC championship game against Tulsa and later playing against Georgia in the 2021 Peach Bowl this past January. 
UCF will also travel to Philadelphia to play Temple on Oct. 30 and travel to Dallas to play SMU on Nov. 13.
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



UCF’s Space Game uniforms have been nominated for UNISWAG’s Uniform of the Year — an award presented to the team with the best uniform in all of college football during the 2020-21 season. 
The 2020 #UCFinSpace threads featured a pewter gray color and a customized black and blue space constellation accompanied by a Citronaut logo. 
Blue is not a color typically associated with UCF, however, it encapsulates the throwback Citronaut concept.
These uniforms mark UCF’s fourth installment in the university’s inaugural space game. 
Since the 2017 season, the university pays homage at a home game to celebrate UCF’s correlation with the space program. 
The UCF football team is a perfect 4-0 when playing in space games. 
Fans can vote for the uniform that is out of this world by clicking this link.
The voting for the UNISWAG Uniform of the Year Award is now live.This award will be given to the best uniform in all of college football from this season.Vote here: https://t.co/jcWCR7SY7R#uniswag pic.twitter.com/wqmnNp7RJA
The Knights look to secure the latest installment of the UNISWAG’s Uniform of the Year, having previously won in 2019. 
Voting closes Thursday at 3 p.m. and the winner will be announced on Feb. 22, UNISWAG’s website states. 
This is a developing story.Check back with Knight News for updates.



