Orlando Sentinel journalists and members of the community gathered at Lake Eola Park Saturday to demand that Tribune Publishing shareholders vote no on selling to Alden Global Capital. 
Tribune owns important news outlets in Orlando and around the country including the Orlando Sentinel and the Sun Sentinel. 
Private investment firm Alden Global Capital — a hedge fund based in Manhattan, New York — has cut staff at its Media News Group by 76%, according to an article by The Wall Street Journal. 
“Alden’s approach to newspapers is to dramatically expand profit margins through cost-cutting, combining services, outsourcing and selling off real estate,” the article states.
@OS_Guild @orlandosentinel co-chair and business journalist, Gabrielle Russon, @GabrielleRusson, speaks on importance of local news at rally in support of the vote against Alden Global Capitals’s bid for Tribune newspapers. @UCFKnightNews pic.twitter.com/5wA22fjO1b
As the future of newsrooms is at stake, Orlando Sentinel education reporter, Annie Martin, said she thinks these hedge fund companies care about making a profit but don’t necessarily care about serving the community. 
“I think that’s really unfortunate. For people studying journalism today, I certainly think that there is a future in this career and I certainly think there are opportunities,” Martin said. “But, as newsrooms get smaller and smaller, those opportunities are dwindling. They’re fading.” 
She said she would not discourage anybody who is passionate about journalism from pursuing that career and believes there are opportunities in today’s economy. 
Orlando Sentinel columnist Scott Maxwell said he came to the newsroom over 20 years ago and had hundreds of people working there. He said today, there are 70 people working at the newspaper. 
“The journalists of the Sentinel are a part of this community, they have kids, they have homes. They believe in covering small businesses, non-profits, and high school sports,” Maxwell said. “They provide consistent coverage of the issues that affect the lives of everyone who lives here.” 
State Rep. Carlos Smith and Rep. Anna Eskamani both spoke at the Saturday rally.
Eskamani and Smith both serve in the Florida House of Representatives — Eskamani represents much of downtown Orlando and Winter Park in District 47, and Smith represents a large portion of east Orlando and UCF in District 49.
Eskamani expressed her appreciation and support for the Sentinel as much of her work has been covered by the newspaper. 
“Without a free press, there is no democracy,” Eskamani said. “It also has to be stressed that every other media outlet relies on the Orlando Sentinel.” 
Smith acknowledged and thanked the Sentinel’s work through the tragedy of the Pulse Nightclub shooting. 
“The Orlando Sentinel helps tell the truth in the story of the Orlando community,” Smith said.
The Orlando Sentinel, along with other newsgathering establishments across the country, encourage those in support to sign their coalition to Save Local News petition. 



Publix announced it will no longer require customers to wear masks if they’re fully vaccinated starting Saturday. 
The announcement comes as new guidance was issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Friday’s decision by Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings to lift the outdoor mask requirement.
According to Publix’s website, “face coverings are optional for fully vaccinated individuals inside Publix stores unless required by a state or local order or ordinance.” 
Publix has been requiring customers to wear a mask in their stores since July.
Trader Joe’s, Walmart, Costco and other businesses have begun to modify requirements for face coverings for vaccinated individuals in their stores, as well. 
Check back with Knight News for updates.



The Orlando Sentinel Guild is hosting a nationwide rally on Saturday in an effort to save local news and the future of journalists. 
Other unions under the newspapers’ parent company, Tribune Publishing, will also be holding their own rallies today. 
The rallies come in the final days before Tribune shareholders are scheduled to vote on May 21 on Alden Global Capital’s bid for Tribune newspapers. 
The company will be voting on a buyout bid from the hedge fund Alden Global Capital. 
According to a Facebook post by the Sentinel Guild, “Alden is a hedge fund known for destroying newspapers. It guts newsrooms and shrinks staff to maximize its profits.” 
The Orlando Guild rally is taking place at Lake Eola Park at 10:00 a.m. and features current Orlando Sentinel journalists and State Representatives. 
Check back with Knight News for more updates. 



For the first time since theme parks reopened, guests will no longer be required to wear masks outside at both Universal Orlando and Disney World.
In line with the guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Friday’s decision by Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings to lift the outdoor mask requirement, both parks announced modifications to their mask policy will go into effect on Saturday. 
While guests will not have to wear masks outside at both parks, face coverings will not be eliminated altogether. Both Universal and Disney are still requiring masks to be worn when guests are inside and in any outdoor line for an attraction.
Universal spokesman Tom Schroder said that while the mask policy has changed, guests will still be expected to wear them in certain places throughout the park, the Orlando Sentinel reports.
“Face coverings will remain required at all indoor locations, including restaurants, shops, and indoor hotel areas,” Schroder said. “Face coverings are also required at all attractions from the moment guests enter the queue to when they exit the experience.”
Walt Disney CEO Bob Chapek said to the Sentinel he believes an even more relaxed mask policy could be making its way to Walt Disney World this summer for guests.
“Anybody [who has] been in Florida in the middle of summer with a mask on, that can be quite daunting,” Chapek said. “We think that’s going to make for an even more pleasant experience.”
Disney will be increasing the attendance level past the 35% cap that the parks started at last summer when they reopened, but did not provide additional details, the Sentinel reports.
Below are the new face covering guidelines for each park.



