As UCF sits in the prominent creative atmosphere of Orlando — with both Universal Studios and Walt Disney World less than an hour’s drive away — it comes as no surprise that the Nicholson School of Communication’s Film department is home to a wealth of talent from upcoming student filmmakers.
Despite some challenges and changes to traditional student cinematic filmmaking practices, COVID-19 has done little to stop filmmakers from focusing on their craft and sharing their stories with the world. 
Many films have had to resort to skeleton crews to advance production while adhering to social distancing guidelines.
Written and directed by master’s student Ramón Paradoa — and also directed by and Luis Ramos — “Bloodshine” is a witty and unnerving horror film whose story and performances are only heightened by its stellar makeup, set design and lighting. 
Set on Halloween night, the film depicts the harrowing events that ensue when a tech repairman accepts a call to assist a family in a suspicious remote location. 
Inspired by horror directors such as Sam Raimi, creator of the “Evil Dead” trilogy and the “Spider-Man” trilogy, Paradoa said he aimed to “sink [his] teeth in” and put a fresh spin on certain classic horror tropes.
“With horror, especially on the independent level, the main target audience is always going to be passionate fans of the genre,” he said. “The best genre films are those that can appease their hardcore fan base while also capturing the intrigue of their occasional visitor. My primary goal as a screenwriter and director is to create memorable characters and stories with which people can relate to on at least some level.”
Paradoa, currently a director on both stage and screen, said he aims to continue his career through the rough patch that the pandemic has presented. 
“The world of filmmaking, while held back in certain ways, has been able to continue moving forward despite the challenges of this year,” he said. 
“Bloodshine” premiered in late October as a part of Filmshortage.com’s Halloween Week Lineup and was showcased as the site’s Daily Pick for Oct. 30, 2020. He said he plans to submit the film to an array of competitions this year, as well as continue to work on new projects.
“Shattering Glass” explores the intricacies of a relationship between two estranged sisters during a tumultuous period in their lives. 
Aiming to showcase “the dueling perspectives of a topic rarely discussed in the right way in films,” junior writer-director Abby Diruggiero said she took inspiration from director Sean Baker — known for work such as “Tangerine” and “The Florida Project” — in the formation of this story. 
As a filmmaker who strives for her audiences to “feel that an experience that they might have gone through was accurately portrayed on screen and that they feel represented or understood,” Diruggiero created “Shattering Glass” as a personal project.
Sophomore Grace Altmire served as cinematographer on the project described the process of being on-set in the COVID-19 era. 
“The biggest challenge was making sure everyone was comfortable,” Altmire said. “Thankfully, it was a small cast and crew totaling in only seven people so we were able to keep it contained.”
Altmire also described her gratitude for the opportunity to have worked on the project. 
“The crew I was working with was a huge inspiration for me personally,” she said. “We put a lot of work and planning into this project and in the process, I learned a lot about filmmaking and the creative process. They opened my eyes to what is possible despite only being a student with limited resources.” 
“Shattering Glass” is currently in post-production with a release date slated for early this year.
Taking inspiration from childhood experiences as well as the works of poet Robert Browning, “Who Hears Music” was written and directed by Rachael Pisarski as a project for the film program and will be released early this year. 
A story about how music helps a young boy through a difficult time, Pisarski said she hopes “Who Hears Music” will reach a wide audience of families and music lovers.
As a senior in the program, Pisarski said she believes UCF has gotten better over the years at showcasing student films through festivals but said she supports wider dissemination of student films. 
“There are local festivals that have screened UCF films as well, but I would love to see more opportunities for student films to be shown off-campus,” she said.
Pisarski said she does have concerns regarding filmmaking in the age of COVID-19 and her pursuit of a career in on-set camera departments.
“The pandemic has left many people who were already working in the industry without jobs, which makes things a little scary for me as I am only just now starting out,” she said. “However, I believe things will get better.” 
Written and directed as a Narrative Production assignment by senior Valentina Duarte, “Wishing on a Paper Plane” is an upcoming film for “women, people of color, and fatalistic people.” 
Taking inspiration from numerology, Duarte said her goal for making the film was to “show how we tend to get in our own way and that often the largest obstacle we face when trying to find a partner is ourselves.” 
In her pursuit of a career as a screenwriter and director, Duarte said she has been inspired by films such as “Paperman” and “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before”, both of which greatly influenced “Wishing on a Paper Airplane”.
When asked about current advertisement standards of student films at school, Duarte responded hopefully, stating, “I think UCF student films are adequately showcased on campus because we have UCF film exhibitions and the [student-run] UCF CAN! Film Festival, which is happening again this February …”
CAN! Film Festival is an annual exhibition of short films created by students for students — its website states the event is held to help recognize exceptional filmmaking at UCF, regardless of discipline. The event is tentatively scheduled for Feb. 5. 
“One thing that could make more students come out to support these films is if the university — or some organization within the university — would post on their social media about the UCF films that have been accepted into film festivals in Orlando,” she said.
“Wishing on a Paper Airplane” is in post-production with a release date slated for early this year.
Check back with Knight News for updates on this story. 



Orange County Sheriff’s Office is investigating a fatal shooting that occurred early Sunday morning at an apartment complex less than a mile from UCF’s main campus. 
Around 5 a.m. Sunday, UCF Police Department tweeted it was assisting the Orange County Sheriff’s Office in response to a shooting that occurred about a half-mile from UCF’s main campus.  
OCSO said a 24-year-old white male sustained a gunshot wound was transported to the hospital by the fire department. OCSO said the individual died at the hospital.
Deputies said the unknown suspect(s) fled the scene prior to their arrival and that the investigation is ongoing.
#BREAKING: A 24-year-old male sustained a gunshot wound around 4:30 a.m. and was transported to the hospital, @OrangeCoSheriff said. Deputies say the unknown suspect(s) fled the scene before they arrived and the investigation is ongoing. Check back for updates. https://t.co/1uKi8HARKC pic.twitter.com/3U5CyWNAy9
“We do not believe there is an active threat to the UCF community at this time,” UCFPD tweeted at 8:47 a.m. “OCSO is continuing its investigation, and additional details are currently limited.”
Knight News has reached out to UCF and American Campus Communities, the property management of Plaza on University, for more information. 



