As UCF (5-3) has began to revive its season — winning three of its last four games — the Knights will take on struggling American Athletic Conference foe Tulane (1-7) at the Bounce House this Saturday at 4 p.m.
Here is everything you need to know going into Saturday’s contest.
To Watch: The game will be aired on ESPNU at 4 p.m.  You also have the option to watch the live stat broadcast on ESPN.com or stats.statbroadcast.com
To Listen: A radio broadcast for the game will be available on FM 96.9 The Game.
According to PickCenter on ESPN.com, UCF is favored by 13 points, in addition, has an 84.8 percent chance to win.
Sitting last place in the American Athletic Conference with a record of 1-7, Tulane currently rides a six-game losing skid.
The majority of Tulane’s struggles have come on the defensive side of the ball, with the Green Wave defensive unit allowing 40.9 points per game, ranking No. 127 of all 130 NCAA Division 1 teams.
The Green Wave have given up at least 40 points in six of its eight games.
The most significant weakness of this Tulane defense is its secondary, considering the Green Wave are giving up an ample 291 passing yards per game, ranking No. 124 in the nation.
It hasn’t been all bad for the Green Wave this season.
Tulane does possess a dangerous run game with their young rushing duo of sophomore Cameron Carroll and freshman TyJae Spears.
Carroll, the primary back for the Green Wave, leads the team with 416 rushing yards on the year.  The sophomore has carried in two touchdowns this season in addition.
Spears sits just behind Carroll with 307 yards on the year.  The freshman does lead the team in rushing touchdowns, however, with four on the year.  
Missing its starting quarterback last weekend vs. Cincinnati, the Green Wave took advantage of its rush attack with Carroll and Spears combining for a total of 170 rush yards and a touchdown in Tulane’s 31-12 loss.
With the status of Tulane’s starting QB Michael Pratt in question (concussion protocol), the Knights should expect the Green Wave to utilize its run game on Saturday.
After starting quarterback Dillon Gabriel suffered a fractured clavicle in UCF’s Sept. 17 loss at Louisville, which has held him out indefinitely, the Knights looked like a completely different team, losing two of their next three games.  
This includes a notable 34-30 loss to a then-winless Navy team, who sits dead last in the nation in total passing.
After ranking among the nation’s top-three offenses with Gabriel leading the way, the Knights’ offense was never the same.
Gabriel’s replacement, true freshman quarterback Mikey Keene could not find a rhythm.  The freshman QB was struggling with typical rookie mistakes, whether that was misfiring on his passes, failing to find an open receiver streaking down the field, or just simply trying to do too much.
Since the Navy loss, however, UCF has won three of its last four games, with the one loss coming to No. 6 Cincinnati, who is currently making a push for the College Football Playoff.
Keene has began to play up to his potential, proving why he should be the guy to replace Gabriel as the Knights’ new starting quarterback.  
Going into Saturday, Keene will be coming off the best performance of his young collegiate career, throwing for over 200 yards and five touchdowns in the Knights’ 49-7 rout of Temple.
UCF’s defense has picked up momentum in addition.
After giving up 56 points to Cincinnati, the Knights defense has allowed only seven points in each of its past two games.
The run defense, especially, has picked up the slack, notably only giving up 77 rushing yards vs. Memphis.  This came just one week after allowing Cincinnati’s run game to have a field day with a 336-yard, six-touchdown performance.



