The UCF Knights landed running back Mark-Antony Richards, a former four-star recruit and redshirt freshman from Auburn, on Tuesday. 
The aforementioned Auburn product was recruited by UCF’s new head coach Gus Malzhan in 2019 out of West Palm Beach High School in Florida.
While at West Palm Beach, Richards racked up over 3,000 all-purpose yards — including 1,300 yards rushing — his senior season.
Prior to committing at Auburn, Richards ranked as the No. 4 athlete nationally, according to 247Sports. 
If you went by Richards’ high school ranking, he’d be the highest-rated player ever to commit to UCF in its history.
“Great school and a great fit for me,” Richards said to 247Sports on Tuesday. “Program is on the rise and I want to be part of that.”
During Richards’ time as a Tiger, the former four-star recruit tallied 20 carries for a total of 76 yards, throughout the course of Auburn’s final four games. 
Prefacing Richards’ first career appearance in a game against Ole Miss, he had suffered a knee injury that sidelined him for 11 months. 
“The rehab process is tough,” Richards said. “It was my first time getting surgery. So, I bounced back and then we had COVID and missed some football. Going into the summer I had to reprove myself. Then I faced some nicks and bruises leading into the season. … I knew I had to keep my head straight.”
Richards enters a crowded but yet inexperienced running back room other than redshirt senior Bentavious Thompson. 
Thompson will likely lead the charge for the Knights in the running game this season, looking to improve from his 358 rushing yards and five touchdowns as the teams feature back.
Outside of Thompson, the younger Knights did not see the field as much due to the upperclassman play of Otis Anderson and Greg McCrae — who both declared for the 2021 NFL Draft. 
Johnny Richardson 11 rushed for 71 yards and one score last year, while Damarius Good totaled 14 rushing attempts for 24 yards.
Trillion Coles suffered a torn Achilles tendon back in July, resulting in him sitting the 2020 season out. 
Prior to the injury, Coles showed promise from the running back spot, averaging 5.1 yards per carry on 33 attempts in 2019. 
R.J. Harvey will be looking to contribute after coming off his redshirt campaign. 
How does the newly acquired Richards fit within the running back rotation? 
Over his tenure as Auburn’s head coach, Malzhan has proven to be fond of the running back by committee approach. 
With Richards’ ability to catch the ball out of the backfield, expect him to contribute early and often on passing downs. 
Richards best outing of his four-game stretch game against No.1 Alabama, where he averaged 4.1 yards per carry on a total of 57 rushing yards. 
“It was a moment I waited for,” Richards told 247Sports. “I felt like I ran the ball pretty well. I just put my head down and worked throughout the season. … The Iron Bowl was a chance to show what I could do with protection, catching and running.”
The Knights have secured a promising playmaker with the potential to be one of the biggest grabs from the transfer portal. 
Check back with Knight News for more UCF football coverage.



The UCF Student Government elections are fast approaching and students have two tickets to choose from in the 2021 student body presidential elections.
Each spring, the UCF student body elects a student leader to represent and serve the student body of almost 72,000.
The UCF SG president serves in the role for the following academic year and is the only student member on the UCF Board of Trustees.
The president — who has an Executive Cabinet of 16 members and is advised on policy and oversees various university departments and agencies —  is the chief executive officer of the UCF Student Government and is responsible for the allocation of the $20.4 million dollar Activity and Service Fee Budget.
The student body vice president is elected alongside the president in the spring to work collaboratively in achieving the platform goals they have set to accomplish, according to UCF’s website.
Students can vote for the new UCF student body president and vice-presidential candidates beginning March 15 through March 17 on myUCF.
UCF SG President and Vice President Candidates Dylan Street and Malachi Mullings’ campaign website states they want to advocate for students. 
Their Student-Initiated Platform leaves room for students to “endorse or expound” on platform points they would like to endorse, create, or see changed by accessing a form and leaving their thoughts and feedback.
Street and Mullings’ platform points include:
The full list of platform points can be read here. 
Street, who is running for SG president, is majoring in sports and exercise science with a minor in sports business management. He is also a member of UCF’s Kappa Sigma fraternity and LEAD Scholar alumnus. 
Mullings, who is running for SG vice president, is an industrial engineering major, and also a LEAD Scholar alum. He is a member of UCF’s Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, the first intercollegiate historically African American Greek-lettered fraternity. Mullings is also a LEAD Scholar alumnus. 
Street and Mullings’ full biography can be found on their website, along with other election information. 
UCF SG President and Vice President Candidates Meg Hall and Austin Wilson, state to put UCF first. 
Their Golden Standard Platform declares to ensure an inclusive and innovative UCF.
Hall and Wilson’s platform points include:
The full list of platform points can be read here. 
Hall, who is running for SG president, is a junior majoring in legal studies and minoring in Spanish and creative writing. She is a member of UCF’s Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority.
Wilson, who is running for SG vice president, is a junior double-majoring in political science and criminal justice. He is a President’s Leadership Council member. 
Hall and Wilson’s full biography can be found on their website, along with other campaign details. 
Check back with Knight News for election coverage. 



