UCF defensive back Brandon Moore has entered his name into the NCAA Transfer Portal as a graduate transfer, Jason Beede with 247 Sports reports. 
Moore has not seen any game-time action since the first contest of the 2019 season where he recorded two total tackles before suffering a season-ending knee injury in the second half of the game against FAMU. 
Before the injury, Moore was one of the Black and Gold’s top playmakers on defense. 
In 2017, Moore played all 13 games and started seven of them as a redshirt freshman — he sat out his true freshman year. 
Moore recorded 31 total tackles alongside a forced fumble and fumble recovery in 2017. 
Moore was also able to snag an interception against No. 7 Auburn in the 2018 Chick-Fil-A Bowl to cap off UCF’s undefeated season. 
UCF's Brandon Moore believes that while Power 5 supporters will short UCF because of the loss, the 8-point difference in score shows that it wasn't the blowout they imagined"It showed today, we only lost by 8 points:" pic.twitter.com/fXEY0hjo53
In 2018, Moore followed up with 41 total tackles accompanied by an interception that was returned for a 93-yard touchdown against LSU in the 2019 PlayStation Fiesta Bowl.
UCF redshirt senior defensive back Richie Grant said Moore started practicing in pads in mid-October. 
UCF redshirt senior DB Richie Grant said CB Brandon Moore — who was injured during the season opener against FAMU in Aug. 2019 — started practicing in pads about 2 weeks ago. Grant said Moore asked to go to the scout team and is currently mentoring the younger guys. pic.twitter.com/MbTXFFNVks
UCF head coach Josh Heupel said in October that Moore has been doing great and practicing well.
“He’s been on the scout [team] side of that, much like McKenzie’s process, and just continuing to get better every day,” Heupel said on Oct. 29, 2020. “[He is] doing a great job in the weight room. Our strength staff and our medical staff have done a great job in the rehab process.” 
In October, Moore was a passenger in a vehicle during a traffic-stop by UCFPD that led to teammate Antwan Collier’s arrest. Other teammates that were not necessarily passengers in the vehicle — but were present at the scene — were later dismissed. Moore was not. 
Collier, Kenny Turnier, Randy Charlton, and Eric Mitchell all were dismissed from the program. Charlton and Turnier have since found new teams. 
Moore never played in another game for the Knights after sustaining the knee injury. 
Moore will cap off his UCF career with 77 total tackles, 3.5 tackles for loss, and two interceptions within a 19-game span.
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates.



UCF alumni and former linebacker Randy Shannon — son of UCF’s defensive coordinator Randy Shannon — announced he is University High School’s new linebacker’s coach. 
“Blessed to accept the linebacker coaching position at University High school. Time to go to work,” Shannon wrote in a social media post on Sunday. 
Shannon spent time with the scout team during his true freshman season in 2016 and was named to the 2016-17 American All-Academic Team. 
He didn’t see action his redshirt freshman season in 2017. 
As a redshirt sophomore in 2018, Shannon made his collegiate debut in the game against USF. He appeared in two games at linebacker during the season. 
In 2019, the redshirt junior appeared in one game against UConn on Sept. 28. 
According to UCF Athletics, he majored in human communications. 
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



UCF will begin to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to healthcare workers, faculty, staff and students ages 65 or older, starting Tuesday.
Dr. Michael Deichen, associate vice president of UCF Student Health Services, said in a Friday statement that the no-cost vaccine will be given with a scheduled appointment at Student Health Services at UCF’s main campus. 
UCF said in a Monday news release it has received 1,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, and Deichen said the distribution will be in accordance with the State of Florida’s guidelines.
UCF will send an email to those healthcare workers, faculty, staff and students who are eligible to receive the vaccine based on the state’s current criteria, Deichen said. 
He said the email will contain information about how to sign up for an appointment, and anyone who does not fit the State of Florida’s executive order guidelines for vaccine eligibility will not be able to receive the vaccination at this time.
Deichen said some community providers are offering the vaccine to residents who qualify, and members of the UCF community may elect to receive their vaccinations through one of those offerings. 
“If you have already scheduled an appointment with another provider, please keep that appointment so we may reach as many people as we can,” he said. 
The vaccine is a two-dose vaccine. UCF will provide instructions for scheduling for the second dose in the recommended three weeks after completion of the first dose. 
Deichen said this is the first dose of hope for our UCF community. 
“In time, we expect to receive additional doses of the vaccine and also expect that the State of Florida’s eligibility requirements will be expanded,” Deichen said. “When that time comes, our vaccine distribution process will scale up accordingly so that we are able to provide as many doses as available to all UCF faculty, staff and students.”
In December, Deichen said the university will encourage students, faculty and staff to get vaccinated in the interest of UCF’s health and safety.
Deichen said he is encouraged about the vaccine distribution in the community but said COVID-19 precautions must continue to be taken.
“We must continue to practice other COVID-19 precautions, including after we are vaccinated as herd immunity develops,” he said. “Prevention precautions such as wearing a face covering, practicing physical distancing and washing hands are as critical as ever.”
More information about vaccine distribution can be found on UCF’s coronavirus website, and questions can be directed to covid19vaccine@ucf.edu.
Update: This article was originally published on Jan. 10 and updated with new information on Jan. 11. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



