The UCF Knights will look to start off the season 3-0 as they travel to Kentucky on Friday to take on the Louisville Cardinals. The game will be aired on ESPN at 7 p.m.
Louisville’s junior quarterback Malik Cunningham has proven to be a threat to opposing defenses with both his arm and his legs.
Cunningham especially beats defenses with his speed.  Through two games, Cunningham has rushed for a total of 108 yards, averaging 54 rushing yards per game.  This notably includes the Cardinals’ season opener vs. Ole Miss, where he rushed for a total of 79 yards and scored two touchdowns with his legs.
The junior QB also rushed for two touchdowns in the Cardinals’ week two win vs. Eastern Kentucky.  Cunningham ran for 29 yards off of 11 attempts in the game.
Cunningham can get the job done with his arm, as well.  Entering week three, the Louisville QB has thrown for a total of 469 yards, which ranks No. 48 of all NCAA Division-1 quarterbacks.  Cunningham has completed 61.7 percent of his passes so far this season, completing 37-of-60 pass attempts.  
Along with the dual-threat quarterback, the Cardinals also have some more dangerous playmakers who could potentially pose as threats to the Knights’ defense.
These “playmakers” include freshman running back Jalen Mitchell and freshman wide receiver Ahmari Huggins-Bruce.
Through Louisville’s first two games, Mitchell — who leads the Cardinals in rushing — has rushed for a total of 139 yards so far this season, averaging 69.5 yards per game. Mitchell averages 4.6 yards per carry on the year.
The freshman RB’s notable performance came vs. EKU last weekend, as he rushed for 90 yards off of 18 carries, averaging five yards per attempt.  In addition, Mitchell hauled in three receptions for 25 yards.
Entering week three, Huggins-Bruce leads the Cardinals in receiving yards with his 169 on the season, which ranks No. 44 of all NCAA Division-1 receivers.  
Bruce’s dominant week two outing plays a key part in this feat, as the freshman caught four receptions for an eye-catching total of 151 yards, averaging 37.8 yards per catch.  This includes a 93-yard reception that Bruce mistakingly, un-forcefully fumbled prior to reaching the goal line.  
The 93-yard reception is currently the second-longest of all NCAA Division-1 receivers.
There is one glaring problem facing this Louisville Cardinals team, which could make for a fun night for a UCF offense that ranks second overall in the nation with an average of 622 total yards per game.
Despite holding Eastern Kentucky to only three points and just 86 rushing yards, the Cardinals’ defense currently ranks among the bottom half of NCAA Division-1 defenses in both total points and total yards allowed per game this season.  
Louisville’s week one blowout loss to Ole Miss plays a large part in this, as the Cardinals seemingly could not contain the Rebels’ offense, which hung 43 points up on the board.  Louisville’s defense gave up an ample total of 569 yards in the game – 381 of those coming through the air.  The Cardinals gave up 188 rushing yards.
This defensive unit has also struggled to put pressure on the quarterback, recording just two sacks and six QB hurries through two games.  
The Cardinals’ struggle to contain opposing offenses, along with their inability to put pressure on opposing quarterbacks, set up potential big nights for UCF breakout players junior quarterback Dillon Gabriel and senior running back Isaiah Bowser – who rushed for four touchdowns in just one half of football last weekend vs. Bethune-Cookman.
UCF has a 60.5% chance to defeat Louisville, according to ESPN’s Football Power Index.
To read previous coverage from the Knights’ first 2021-22 game on Sept. 3: “UCF charges past Boise State in come-from-behind victory.”
To read previous coverage from the Knights’ second home game on Sept. 11: “UCF routs Bethune-Cookman behind RB Bowser’s historic night.”
Check back with Knight News for post-game coverage.



