UCF Athletics Director Danny White has been named the athletics director for the Tennessee Volunteers, both schools have confirmed. 
Despite committing to long-term growth at UCF in March 2020, when he signed a 5-year contract extension — which can be seen in full on the next page — White’s hiring at Tennessee has similarities with his start at UCF. 
“I couldn’t be more committed to building UCF for the long term,” White said in the March 2020 news release. “I am humbled to be able to lead such a talented group of coaches, staff, and student-athletes who make it all happen.”
UCF said in a Thursday news release that it will immediately begin a national search for a new vice president and director of athletics following White’s departure.
UCF President Alexander Cartwright said he will personally miss working closely with White. 
“Danny will leave UCF with incredible momentum and a strong foundation for success, including a culture of innovation and winning with integrity and strengthening UCF’s national reputation well beyond the sports world,” Cartwright said.
White said the future is bright under Cartwright’s leadership. 
“It was extremely difficult to tell Alex that I was leaving as he is a tremendous leader and friend,” White said. “UCF is definitely in great hands, and I look forward to watching the continued success of this phenomenal university. The White family will always be Knight fans!”
Cartwright said he is certain UCF will attract premier candidates who are eager to work alongside the coaches and athletics staff.
White’s contract states that if he is to terminate his employment at UCF for a new position, the new employer is to pay UCF the following “buyout” within  60 days.
White is facing a similar task as he faced when he was brought to UCF — arrive on campus and find a head coach for a struggling program. 
White’s hiring at Tennessee comes three days after the Vols football head coach Jeremy Pruitt was fired and sitting athletics director Phillip Fulmer announced his retirement amid an investigation into recruiting violations. 
“I am thrilled to be headed to Knoxville and to a university with a great competitive tradition and a spirited and devoted fan base,” White said in a Thursday news release. 
White said Volunteer fans have an expectation to win, and his first task will be taking on the search for a new head football coach. 
“But I want all Vols to know that I am deeply committed to excellence in all of our athletic programs,” he said. 
When White first joined UCF in 2015, former UCF head coach George O’Leary had just resigned as the head coach and the interim athletics director. O’Leary had been serving as the interim AD since July 2015. 
White was hired as the vice president and director of athletics in November 2015 and was expected to quickly find a head football coach.
White hired Scott Frost — the Oregon offensive coordinator who would come to UCF as its new, first-time head coach — in December 2015. 
During a Monday press conference, UT Chancellor Donde Plowman said there was evidence of numerous NCAA violations that occurred under the former head coach’s watch.
With possible NCAA penalties overhead and an ongoing investigation with significant restructuring to do, White will have his work cut out for him.
“The scope of the actions should indicate to you that the number of violations is significant, and the number of people involved [is significant] — and deliberate efforts to conceal these activities from our compliance office,” Plowman said. 
UT may have avoided paying Pruitt a $12 million buyout because he violated the terms of his contract — although the Tennessean reports Pruitt plans to fight for the buyout in court — but the details pertaining to White’s buyout are not known at this time.
White will be entering murky waters within the Tennessee Athletics department, which has a football program that has spiraled over the last decade within the Southeastern Conference. 
The last time Tennessee made it to the SEC Football Championship Game was 13 years ago — in 2007 — but lost to LSU. The Vols also made it to the conference championship in 2004 but lost to Auburn, and 2001 but lost to LSU. 
The last time the Vols won a conference championship came in 1998 against Mississippi State — the Vols also defeat Auburn to win the championship game in 1997. 
Click to the next page to see Danny White’s most recent contract extension from March 2020. 
This story was updated on Thursday evening with new information provided by UCF and UT. Check back with Knight News for updates on this developing story. 



