Senator Linda Stewart and Representative Anna V. Eskamani filed legislation last Wednesday to require the teaching of Asian American and Pacific Islander, (AAPI) history for K-12 in Florida public schools. 
“There’s been a rise of hate towards Asian-Americans, and our hope with this legislation is to combat that hate with education and empathy,” said Rep. Eskamani in a press release. “Asian American history is American history, and yet far too long, the contributions of the AAPI community in Florida and throughout the country have been invisible. 
According to Stop AAPI Hate, Asian American and Pacific Islanders, and girls are prime targets of hate and discrimination. The national report covers the 9,081 incident reports to Stop AAPI Hate from March 19, 2020, to June 30, 2021. The number of hate incidents increased from 6,603 to 9,081 during April-June 2021, according to the site. Of all reports, 4,548 hate incidents occurred in 2020 and 4,533 of hate incidents occurred in 2021. 
The two lawmakers hope the act will take effect July 1, 2022. The legislation will require instruction in the history of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, requiring the history of AAPI to be included in specified instruction. In July, Illinois became the first state to require the teaching of AAPI history. Rep. Eskamani and Sen. Stewart are hoping Florida will be the next.
According to US Census data about 3% of Florida’s population identifies as Asian American, and Central Florida is home to a thriving AAPI community. The blossoming of this legislation originated from the leadership of Mimi Chan, the State Lead for a coalition called “Make Us Visible Florida.” 
“We deeply believe that by educating our youth about the history of Asian Americans, we can create a more inclusive Florida, where our differences are celebrated instead of feared,” Chan said, in the press release. 
The bill HB281 filed by Rep. Eskamani states that the scope of history of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders taught would include the immigration, citizenship, civil rights, identity, and culture of AAPI and the contribution to American society. It should employ and approve methods of instruction to be taught efficiently and faithfully, using the books and materials required that meet the highest standard for professionalism and historical accuracy. 
The companion Senate bill, SB490, filed by Sen. Linda Stewart states that instructional materials shall include: an understanding of the ramifications of prejudice, racism, stereotyping, and an examination of what it means to be a responsible and respectful person, for the purpose of encouraging tolerance of diversity in a pluralistic society. 
“The history of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders is a rich story that weaves into the fabric of our nation, but that story has gone untold in many of our schools,” said Sen. Stewart in a press release. “ This bill will elevate AAPI history and ensure that Florida’s students receive a fuller and more inclusive education on the journey of Asian Americans and their contributions to American Society.” 
Stop AAPI Hate, the nation’s leading coalition documenting and addressing anti-Asian hate and discrimination amid the COVID-19 pandemic, has reported a spike in Asian American discrimination.
Courtney Gilmartin, Director of UCF Communications, said that the UCF Police Department has not receive any reports regarding discrimination against Asian students or staff. 




