UCF Journalism student Madison Monroe Adams, went viral over the weekend after she posted a TikTok video of her being kicked out of the Student Union Pegasus Ballroom while recording a preview of Ben Shapiro’s upcoming visit to campus. 
The video has reached almost a million views on the social media platform and has brought a lot of controversy on whether or not her First Amendment rights under the U.S. Constitution were violated. 
UCF staff threatened to call the police department’s non-emergency line and said the student was trespassing. According to the TikTok video, Adams believes her First Amendment rights were violated. Adams wrote that the situation raised a “Freedom of the press” issue on her initial TikTok caption, and later commented that the story she was producing for her class publication was “cut” by the Journalism school due to the situation. 
Knight News first became aware of the situation on Saturday morning and announced to its readers on Instagram how it was working on the story, and also contacted UCF for comment. The University spokesperson responded asking for more information related to the situation, but did not give a comment, even after Knight News extended its Saturday deadline to Sunday, trying to get the university’s side.  
On Sunday evening, Knight News published its first report on Twitter, explaining the facts it gathered, and showing the video of Adams to update our readers with what we knew about the viral video that had already been seen about a half million times, while Knight News continued its investigation. 
1ST AMENDMENT FIGHT: Journalism student vs. #UCF @madmonroeadams was kicked out of the Student Union Pegasus Ballroom while covering @benshapiro’s upcoming visit. She says UCF violated her rights. So far, UCF has remained silent. We’re investigating. @jplopeznews reports. pic.twitter.com/6EFXMVi795
After UCF’s spokesperson still hadn’t responded with a comment by Monday night,  Knight News filed a public records request, under Chapter 119, Florida Statutes, with the university regarding existing policies to try to  determine if the Journalism student was in fact in violation. 
Knight News kept pressing for answers Monday night by also asking UCF Student Government to weigh in.
SG President Meg Hall confirmed in a Tuesday email to Knight News that students can request access to film in the Pegasus Ballroom without paying thousands of dollars to rent the space. Hall stated that as Student Government, they will value and exercise students’ rights and will always advocate for students to find a space to express their beliefs, views, and concerns on any subject. 
“One of those available spaces where any student can freely express themselves is the Student Union,” Hall replied, in an email to Knight News. “This nonetheless requires proper procedures to be followed to ensure all students have equal and safe access to ballrooms and meeting rooms.”
Hall said the email student journalists can use to request access to film in the union is: unionres@ucf.edu. 
After Hall responded, the University spokesman also responded to Knight News’ public records request Tuesday afternoon, attaching records with the union’s policies, along with a brief comment.
“Student Union rooms are not available for public or media access during set up for events,” Chad Binette said. “Media are welcome to film in other areas inside the Student Union.” 



