UCF has agreed to be the host of the Hula Bowl — one of college football’s traditional all-star games, usually played in Hawaii.  
The game is set to be played on Jan. 15, 2022, pending approval by the UCF Board of Trustees, UCF Athletics said in a news release.
The game will include NCAA college football players from all divisions, along with international players from Japan, Canada, Australia, and the UK this year, according to Hula Bowl’s website. The game will always include Polynesian players with historic ties to the Islands.
The deal also includes access to UCF’s other football-related facilities, including Nicholson Fieldhouse, locker rooms, and the practice fields adjacent to the Bounce House, the Orlando Sentinel reports.
The Hula Bowl has historically been played in Aloha Stadium, located in Honolulu, Hawaii.  However, the stadium is currently closed due to ongoing repairs and upgrades.  
The Hula Bowl is coming off a recent 12-year hiatus, coming to a halt following 2008’s game.
The contest was set to revive in Raleigh, North Carolina, in 2019, per the plans of North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory.  
McCrory’s plan was for the game to alternate between North Carolina and Honolulu.  Those plans fell through, however, after McCrory lost his re-election.
Instead, the Hula Bowl resurrected in 2020, being played in its home – Aloha Stadium. 
We are excited to announce that our 2022 Hula Bowl will be taking place in Orlando, Florida at the Bounce House UCF Football Stadium!!! #hulabowl #hawaii #Orlando #Florida #football #2022 @UCF_Football https://t.co/PdJNxxJCjd
UCF Director of Athletics Terry Mohajir is determined for UCF to serve as a suitable host for the Hula Bowl while also proving to be the future of college football.
“We’re going to be aggressive about doing everything we can to make this the pre-eminent college all-star game in the country,” Mohajir said.
“This will be a great event for our community, and it’s another indication that our location and UCF are the future of college football.”
Ticket information will be available at a later date.



