The University of Central Florida will face a federal judge at 1 p.m. Monday to defend itself against a lawsuit claiming UCF policies violate the First Amendment. 
The plaintiffs are three anonymous students and Speech First Inc.,  a nationwide membership organization dedicated to preserving human and civil rights secured by law and promoting First Amendment protections for college students with “unpopular ideas.” 
They are asking the court to enter a preliminary injunction to stop UCF from enforcing several policies they believe violate the First Amendment.
The challenged policies involve UCF’s discriminatory-harassment policy and its policy of using a bias response team to address unpopular speech.
The case, Speech First, Inc., v. Alexander Cartwright, will be presided over by Judge Gregory A. Presnell, a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida.
UCF defended its policies and released an official statement to KnightNews.com prior to the hearing.
“The University of Central Florida has a long history of supporting free speech and open expression, and believes so strongly in that right it is guaranteed in the first paragraph of our Student Rules of Conduct: ‘The right of all students to seek knowledge, debate ideas, form opinions, and freely express their ideas is fully recognized by the University of Central Florida. The Rules of Conduct…will not be used to impose discipline for the lawful expression of ideas,’ “UCF said.
The university added, “We also expect our students and employees to follow state and federal laws that guarantee freedom from unlawful discrimination, and our policies are meant to ensure that.”
However, the public is unable to monitor how and whether UCF lives up to that promise of protecting the First Amendment because the university holds secret conduct hearings.
The plaintiffs said UCF’s arguments have not worked before.
According to the plaintiffs’ most recent filing, “The universities of Texas and Michigan also put First Amendment disclaimers in their policies, swore that their policies were never applied to protected speech, and told students that bias-response teams were non-disciplinary and ‘voluntary.'”
The university’s bias response team — the Just Knights Response Team — is comprised of university administrators (including a police officer) to police “bias-related incidents” on and off-campus, according to the lawsuit.
Speech First President Nicole Neily told WMFE the goal of this lawsuit is to eliminate the university’s bias response team in addition to eliminate “broad language” from the school’s policies such as in their discriminatory-harassment policy.
“The way that the university has defined some of these policies is very broad and very vague, so it leaves the administration with broad discretionary power to pick winners and losers,” Neily said. “That is not a constitutional standard.”
The lawsuit is centered around three anonymous students who claim they are fearful of sharing their conservative viewpoints on campus over repercussions that may follow. The lawsuit points to the firing of former Associate Professor Charles Negy as one of the reasons why they are afraid of sharing their viewpoints. 
“All of them echoed, ‘If this could happen to a tenured professor, what would happen to me,’” she said.
Knight News will be at Monday’s hearing in the Orlando federal courthouse. Check back for updates on how the judge reacts to both sides.



UCF quarterback Dillon Gabriel will be held to high expectations going into the 2021-22 season.  
The junior QB has received high praise from college football analysts this offseason. Gabriel will have some new talented weapons to throw the ball to this upcoming season.
Throughout the duration of the 2021 offseason, Pro Football Focus has published several lists on social media, ranking players based on statistics from the 2020-21 college football season.
PFF tweeted its list of “Top-5 QBs returning in college football” on Wednesday and listed Gabriel as the No. 4 in the ranking. 
The site published its top-five list of “Most valuable QBs returning next season” on Saturday and Gabriel landed the No. 2 spot on the list.  
Most valuable QBs returning next season (PFF Wins Above Avg)1, Sam Howell, UNC2. Dillon Gabriel, UCF3. Matt Corral, Ole Miss4. Spencer Rattler, Oklahoma5. D'Eriq King, Miami pic.twitter.com/Bs6e217ywV
Gabriel has even been considered as a player to watch for in Athlon Sports‘ 2021 Heisman Trophy Award watch list.
The Knights’ QB is coming off a 2020-21 season where he finished within the nation’s top five in total passing. Gabriel’s 3,570 total passing yards on the year was the fifth most in the country.  His 32 passing touchdowns were the nation’s fourth-most.  
The junior quarterback was the leader of a 2020 UCF offense which finished second in the nation in total offense with an average of 568.1 total yards per game. The Knights’ 42.2 points per game was ranked No. 8 in the nation.  
Gabriel will be losing three of his top five receiving targets from the 2020-21 season – Marlon Williams, Jacob Harris, and Tre Nixon.  The QB will have an abundance of talented receiving options to throw to this upcoming year.
Current Knights receivers sophomores Jaylon Robinson and Ryan O’Keefe will both be returning to UCF for their junior seasons. Robinson finished second on the team with 979 receiving yards last season. The sophomore recorded six touchdowns for the Knights.  
O’Keefe’s 391 receiving yards was the fourth-most for UCF. He also tallied three touchdowns for the Knights.
Gabriel will have some incoming receiving threats for the 2021-22 season with four-star recruit from Hawaii, Titus Mokiao-Atimalala, who committed to play for the Knights back in late January. Mokiao-Atimalala was recently titled the 2020-21 Gatorade Player of the Year for the state of Hawaii.
The Knights also received a commitment from Notre Dame transfer receiver Jordan Johnson. Although Johnson didn’t produce much during his lone season with the Fighting Irish, the receiver was rated as a four-star recruit coming out of high school and was ranked the No. 37 overall player in the nation for the class of 2020.
Gabriel will be playing under new leadership next season, as former Auburn Tigers’ coach Gus Malzahn was named the new head coach for the Knights this offseason.
The QB is looking forward to playing under Coach Malzahn and believes he fits what Malzahn is looking to do with the Knights’ offense. 
“I feel like I’m a good fit because I’m different from every other quarterback he’s coached. I’m able to do a lot of things that he hasn’t been able to do in the past. That’s something we’re both excited about. It’s going to be fun that first day running out of that tunnel together.”
Gabriel will look to play up to his high expectations, as the Knights are set to open up the 2021-22 season on Sep. 4 against Boise State at the Bounce House.



