UCF announced on Tuesday the search was over and Terry Mohajir was the Knights‘ new vice president and director of athletics.
This hiring came just over two weeks after former UCF AD Danny White departed for the University of Tennessee, bringing former Knights’ head football coach Josh Heupel along with him.
Here are seven intriguing things you need to know about the Knights’ new AD.
According to the program’s website, Arkansas State’s athletic teams combined for 25 different conference championships during Mohajir’s nine-year tenure as AD of the Red Wolves. 
These include conference titles in football, volleyball, men’s and women’s track and field, women’s bowling, men’s and women’s basketball, women’s cross country, men’s golf, and women’s soccer.
A-State’s 23 Sun Belt Conference titles since 2012 is a conference-high.
The Red Wolves’ football team saw eight winning seasons where they would get the opportunity to play in a bowl game.  The Red Wolves won Sun Belt Conference titles during four of these seasons — 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2016).
Before becoming a director of athletics, Mohajir was an assistant coach for the University of Kansas’ football team.  
Mohajir served as the Jayhawks’ assistant offensive line coach and game-day special teams coordinator from 1993-96.  
During Mohajir’s three seasons as an assistant coach, the Jayhawks went 21-14.
While serving as the director of athletics for A-State, Mohajir was focused on more than just the athletic programs.  
He helped develop a student-advisory group called the Red Wolves Leadership Academy, or RWLA, which “encompasses everything from a student-athlete mentorship program to fostering leadership in the community,” per the university’s athletic site.
The Red Wolves’ academic performance reached an all-time high by setting multiple records while Mohajir was at the helm. Since the 2014-15 year, the Red Wolves set a new school standard for all-department GPA each passing year.  
This includes the 2019-20 year, where A-State’s all-department GPA rose to 3.211, which was a conference-high. The Red Wolves would also set a record with 232 student-athletes making the Athletic Director’s Honor Roll in 2018.
According to the university, Mohajir hired nine different coaches at A-State during his nine years with the program.  
These hires include three football coaches, who all are currently head coaches at major programs. These coaches are Bryan Harsin (Auburn), Blake Anderson (Utah State), and Butch Jones (Tennessee).
Mohajir hired Brian Dooley as head coach of the women’s soccer team in 2015.  Dooley would go on to lead the Red Wolves to a conference championship in 2020. Dooley would be tabbed the Sun Belt Conference Coach of the Year during that season.  
Mohajir also hired Mike Hagen as head coach of the men’s golf team in 2015. Hagen eventually led the Red Wolves to a Sun Belt title in 2019, when he was named Coach of the Year.
Mohajir’s past of hiring head coaches proves to be promising for the UCF football program, which currently has a void at the head coaching position after losing Heupel to the Vols football program in January.
One of the many reasons Knight Nation is thrilled about the new hire is because of Mohajir’s lively personality.
The new AD for the Knights evidently has dancing skills, as TikTok videos of him dancing with his family have surfaced on social media.
UCF sophomore quarterback Dillon Gabriel even posted one of these videos on his Instagram story, captioned “Big mood.”
Along with the Tik Tok videos, Mohajir has been seen being very energetic on the sidelines of football games — whether that is by celebrating with his players, cheering after a big play, or yelling to the ref about a missed call.
He's quite a personality on the sidelines during games pic.twitter.com/evsO5NOsOb
The new Knight even does push-ups after every touchdown during some games.
In recent years, the UCF football team arguably was not given much respect by the College Football Playoff Committee.  
This most notably occurred in 2017 when the Knights were left out of the playoffs despite a 13-0 record.  The Knights could potentially receive some love by at least one of the members, given that they now have one of their own on the committee, as Mohajir holds a spot. 
Prior to becoming the director of athletics for the Knights, Mohajir was slightly familiar with the University of Central Florida.  
While Mohajir was serving as the director of athletics for Arkansas State University, the Red Wolves would handily defeat the UCF football team in 2016’s Cure Bowl by a final score of 31-13.



An open government expert says UCF is taking a very dangerous position by giving the title of vice president of athletics at a public university to its newly hired director of athletics. 
Frank LoMonte, director of the Brechner Center for Freedom of Information at UF, said if UCF’s new director of athletics is going to serve as a university vice president, the hiring decision should be made in the open — not behind closed doors.
LoMonte, who replied to Knight News’ request for comment before UCF made the official hiring announcement Tuesday, said if the vice president is hired in a process that is not legally valid, any decision that person makes would be under a legal cloud and subject to challenge.
LoMonte said if Terry Mohajir will only work for the athletics association — the private organization within the public university, and not serve as a university vice president — then UCF Athletics Association may not have a problem making the hire in a closed-door process.
Records obtained by Knights News on Tuesday indicate that Mohajir will serve not only as UCF’s new vice president and director of athletics but also as the president of the UCF Athletics Association.
Despite other Florida universities, like Florida State, providing its athletics’ search firm contracts, UCF said the contract with the search firm is with the UCF Athletics Association and any records that Knight News is requesting pertaining to applications and nominations would be exempt from disclosure.
The University of Florida is one example of an institution that appears to have noticed the potential problems with combining the two roles. 
UF Director of Athletics Scott Strickland’s official title does not include the title vice president, although he is listed among those with the title on the president’s cabinet. 
LoMonte said a university president cannot delegate away the authority to hire vice presidents.
“Imagine if a person showed up at the doorstep one day and said ‘hi, I’m the new vice president for academic affairs. Walt Disney Corp. decided to hire me, so I’ll be moving into this nice office and making academic decisions from now on.’ They’d call security and have the guy thrown out,” he said. 
He said the athletic association does not have the authority to install people into university administrative positions, like the vice president of athletics role. 
“Clearly, the university president intends to make that hire,” LoMonte said in an email to Knight News before the official announcement. “If it is a presidential hire, then it is a governmental decision subject to the Open Records Act, period.”
Mohajir is already at UCF full time and he will meet with many of the university’s head coaches, staff, and student-athletes this week, UCF said on Tuesday. 
UCF has so far refused to release any public records to Knight News pertaining to the search — or the contract with the search firm — for UCF’s new vice president of athletics. 
Knight News obtained the record of the memorandum of understanding regarding Mohajir’s employment offer on Tuesday. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



UCF announced Terry Mohajir as the new athletics director on Tuesday, but records obtained by Knight News show he is also the new UCF Athletics Association President.
In addition to Director of Athletics, Mohajir will serve as Vice President of Athletics at UCF — a position that directly reports to UCF President Alexander Cartwright, who serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of UCFAA.
The employment contract — which UCF has not yet presented according to this agreement — will be for a period of five years with an option for a two-year extension after a 24-month review at Cartwright’s discretion.
Mohajir and UCF have agreed upon an annual base salary of $795,000.
Mohajir will receive annual incentive compensation of up to $200,000 for achieving academic, athletic and financial performance goals as determined by Cartwright, according to the agreement.
Mohajir will be reimbursed for his household moving expenses, a monthly car stipend and a club membership, in accordance with UCFAA policy, records show. 
He is set to receive all standard benefits on the same terms as provided by the university or the athletics association that are provided to all professional employees, with contributions and benefits based upon the base salary where relevant, the agreement shows.
UCF Athletics Association has agreed to pay Mohajir’s buyout, which is not specified in this agreement.
Knight News obtained the memorandum of understanding between Mohajir and UCF on Tuesday. The full MOU can be read here.
This is developing and will be updated frequently. Check back for updates. 



