Meg Hall and Austin Wilson have been elected the next UCF student body president and vice president. 
Records show 4,121 votes were cast in the 2021 UCF Student Government Presidential Election — with a total enrollment of 68,942 students this spring, just under 6% of the student body participated in voting for an eligible ticket during the 2021 UCF SG Presidential Elections.
The Meg and Austin ticket received 2,288 votes — or about 55.5% of the total votes, while Dylan Street and Malachi Mullings received 1,833 votes — or about 44.5% of the total votes. 
The 2021 UCF SG Presidential Elections shows the lowest voter participation over the last five elections, despite having increased student enrollment over the same amount of time. Knight News previously requested the records for spring 2017 to spring 2020 UCF SG Elections — previous election years are not included because the information is not readily accessible. 
UCF reported a total student body enrollment of 68,942 in the spring 2020 term.
Records show that 7,333 students — or about 10.64% of the total student body — participated in voting for an eligible ticket during the 2020 UCF SGA Presidential Elections.
The 2020 SGA Presidential Election ballot formally introduced the amendment to change the name from Student Government Association to Student Government. Constitutional Amendment 52-01 passed with 80% of the votes. 
UCF reported a total student body enrollment of 65,454 in the spring 2019 term.
Records show that 8,273 students — or about 12.64% of the total student body — participated in voting for an eligible ticket during the 2019 UCF SGA Presidential Elections.
UCF reported a total student body enrollment of 63,887 in the spring 2018 term. 
Records show that 8,967 students — or about 14.04% of the total student body — participated in voting for an eligible ticket during the 2018 UCF SGA Presidential Elections.
A runoff election also occurred during the same election, in which records show that 6,816 students — or about 10.67% of the total student body — participated in voting for an eligible ticket during the 2018 UCF SGA Presidential Elections.
UCF reported a total student body enrollment of 61,638 in the spring 2017 term.
Records show that 11,356 students — or about 18.4% of the total student body — participated in voting for an eligible ticket during the 2017 UCF SGA Presidential Elections.
Click to the next page to see the results of the 2021 UCF Senate Elections.
This is developing. Check back for updates. 



UCF Student Government elections opened Monday, and for the first time this year, students will also be able to vote for senators within their colleges on the same ballot as the student body president. 
To vote visit the my.ucf.edu portal and click on “SGA Elections Voting” to vote in the presidential and senate elections. Voting opened Monday at 8 a.m. and will remain open until Wednesday at 5 p.m.
Once students click the “click here to vote” section, these are the instructions that can be seen. Students can vote through the myUCF website or app, or at an on-campus polling station at the Student Union. 
The Legislative Branch, also known as the Student Body Senate, is composed of 72 student-leaders who are elected by the student body each year. 
“Our Student Body Senate provides students and organizations with the funds necessary for travel and conference registration, as well as for campus-wide events and projects,” the SG website reads. “Also, through various committees, Senate has great impact on issues that directly regard the Student Body. Student Senators also work on college-specific and/or campus-wide initiatives that better the student experience for UCF Knights!”
Each student will see a list of senators for their respective college. For more information about the individuals running in this election for the legislative branch, please see this website. 
Students will also see a question that asks: “Do you support a $1 fee added to the current fees in support of a Student Green Initiative Fund?” 
Here’s some background on the initiative and ways to learn more: 
With voting now open for the 2021 UCF Student Government Presidential Elections, it is important for students to know the ticket’s platforms. 
Meg Hall and Austin Wilson are running under the slogan, “Golden Days Ahead.”
They call their platform The Golden Standard and call for an inclusive and innovative UCF. The main points behind The Golden Standard platform are:
The latest additions to the Meg and Austin platform include work to host monthly Student Government service drives in partnership with organizations like Knight’s Pantry, and other points, such as: 
To view Hall and Wilson’s website visit this link, and to read more about their platform this link.
Dylan Street and Malachi Mullings chose to run under their slogan, “A New Chapter.”
Their Student-Initiated Platform is student-oriented and calls for students to become involved in the creation of their platform. 
Organizations and students are given the opportunity to endorse, call for change, or even suggest platform ideas.
The main points behind their Student-Initiated Platform are:
To view Street and Mullings’s website this link, and to read more about their platform this link.
Read previous coverage on the next page. 



