Michael Morsberger, vice president for advancement and CEO of the UCF Foundation, will soon be on temporary leave recovering from scheduled open-heart surgery. 
Morsberger is scheduled to have the procedure in April, he announced at recent UCF Foundation and alumni board meetings. He will be out a few months for recovery, he confirmed to Knight News.
Morsberger said that his doctors at Cleveland Clinic scheduled an open-heart surgery on April 29, with the possibility that the date could be moved up. 
Morsberger will have to go to Cleveland for monitoring, pretesting, and catheterization beginning April 25. He said the recovery and rehab process for this procedure is about 90 days, with frequent local follow-ups for about six months.
Morsberger reached out to Knight News to put rumors to rest about his health. He said during this time he has taken calls and emails from people saying they heard he was dying. 
Morsberger told Knight News that this is not true — he wanted to stress this is simply a health situation he needs to address.  
Morsberger is looking forward to returning to UCF after he recovers from his surgery. 
Until then, Karen Cochran will be serving as acting vice president and CEO of the UCF Foundation. Morsberger will continue to work on coordinated principal and major gifts cultivation and solicitation from now through the middle of April. 
“I know we are in good hands moving forward,” Morsberger said in an email to his colleagues announcing his leave. “On behalf of myself and my family, thank you again for your support during this health crisis.” 
UCF has celebrated fundraising milestones since Morsberger has taken over in 2016. That’s when UCF’s Ignite campaign launched publically — and it concluded in 2019 with a $531.5 million attainment. 



UCF students may have full class sizes this the fall term, but will the Bounce House’s capacity restrictions be lifted, too?  
UCF announced its fall plans to lift capacity restrictions and offer most courses in-person as it’s planning a full return to face-to-face operations, but Knight News has learned the announcement does not extend to UCF Athletics. 
“The announcement is related to academics, not athletics,” UCF spokesman Chad Binette said in an email to Knight News.
UCF Athletics spokesman John Heisler said last week that it was too soon to know about capacity limits for football games when asked about season tickets and fans in the stands. 
“We have no idea — way premature to know — obviously we would love to have 100% capacity but it all depends on the COVID progress in months to come,” he said. 
The University of Alabama, Tennessee, and Mississippi all announced they moving forward with plans to have a full stadium in the fall while following COVID-19 protocols and guidelines. 
The announcement to allow fans in the stands comes at a similar time as the schools announced their fall academic plans.
With this announcement, we've received a number of questions regarding capacity at Bryant-Denny for @AlabamaFTBL in 2021.We are moving forward with plans to have a full stadium in the fall and will monitor medical guidelines as we have all along. #RollTide https://t.co/zEjIWIDUMZ
UCF Athletics has not yet made an official announcement regarding capacity and athletic events. 
Check back with Knight News for updates.



