After being hired last week and tasked with finding a new head coach, Tennessee Director of Athletics Danny White announced UCF’s Josh Heupel will be joining him in Tennessee to fill the role.
UCF now has a vacancy in its athletics director position and its head coaching role. UCF defensive coordinator Randy Shannon is reported to be the interim head coach in the meantime. 
UCF confirms it will hire an AD before a new coach. Randy Shannon is interim HC for now. "The university anticipates finalizing the selection of a search firm this week to help to identify and recruit the best candidates for director of athletics."
White said the athletics department looked at a number of potential candidates between his arrival last week and Heupel’s hiring on Wednesday.
“Josh Heupel, who I had the privilege of working with for three years, is everything we were looking for: winning with integrity, a history of championships and the architect of explosive offenses,” White said. “He is a players’ coach and the kind of person the student-athletes go the extra mile for. I saw that first-hand, and you can see it in his coaching record.”
UT Knoxville Chancellor Donde Plowman said White was brought to Tennessee to hire a talented coach who will remain with the program for some time and build a championship program.
“Coach Heupel has compiled an impressive record, and I think Vols fans can look forward to a bright and exciting future,” Plowman said. “We are delighted to welcome him and his family to Tennessee.” 
Heupel was a former Oklahoma quarterback who led his team to the national title. He was previously an assistant coach and a head coach who captured conference championships at both Oklahoma and UCF — as of Wednesday, he has been named Tennessee’s 27th head football coach. 
Last week, White was named the vice-chancellor and director of athletics for the program. 
In 2018, Heupel signed an extension to his contract with the Knights that extended his deal through January 2024. All of Heupel’s and White’s contracts can be seen on the next page. 
“I am thrilled to be coming to Tennessee,” Heupel said. “I understand that Volunteer fans are hungry for a return to the top that they so richly deserve, and it is my goal and commitment to bring a championship back to Rocky Top.”
This is a developing story and will be updated with new information. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



