The UCF Knights faced the South Florida Bulls at home for the second round of the War On I-4 rivalry series this season and were able to avenge the previous loss by defeating the Bulls 81-65 on Wednesday. 
The Knights came out to a strong start in the first half outscoring their rival 39-31, shooting 48% from the floor and 44% from beyond the arc.
UCF’s C.J. Walker led the way for the Knights’ offense in the first half. The sophomore forward shot 5-of-6 from the floor leading the team with 12 points making his last four shots in a row. 
UCF sophomore guard Darin Green Jr. added a solid 10 points 4-of-7 from the floor and 2-of-3 from beyond the arc by the end of the first half.
While the Bulls fought hard inside the paint to close the gap to within 6 points of the lead, the Knights ultimately proved too much for the Bulls. 
The Knights completed 51% of shots from the field and 43% from beyond the arc, while the Bulls made 32% of shots from the field and 23% from beyond the arc. 
Darius Perry, UCF’s leading scorer who came into the game averaging 14.4 points a game, had an uncharacteristic first half and only managed a couple of points. 
The senior guard’s shooting lit up in the second half, where he was able to complete 3-of-5 from beyond the arc to add to 14 points, five rebounds and four assists to the Knights’ winning effort.
Walker finished with a team-high 18 points, shooting 4-of-7 from beyond the arc and 7-of-12 from the field. 
“We all played collectively as a team,” Walker said. “I think that was the funniest part. A lot of the times we play individually, but tonight we came out with a good team win.”
With a minute left in the game, the Knight Nation rose to their feet chanting “U-C-F” along with thunderous applause as Perry dripped out the time remaining on the clock at center court as the Knights cruised to a dominant 81-65 victory over the Bulls avenging their Jan. 2 loss against their War on I-4 rivals.
After the game, UCF head coach Johnny Dawkins said he was pleased with the dominant victory and stressed the importance of having a killer instinct when it comes to building leads in games.
“The thing I really liked was we were able to sustain it,” Dawkins said, in reference to the Knights’ lead throughout the game. “We were able to sustain it and continue to build that lead which is something we’ve talked about having more of a killer instinct and get up. I think our guys showed that ability today.”
With the victory, the Knights improved to 7-11 overall and 5-10 in the American Athletic Conference, while the rival Bulls fell to 7-8 and 3-6 in conference play.
The Knights will next take on the Tulane Green Wave in New Orleans on Saturday at 3 p.m.



UCF announced Travis Williams as the new defensive coordinator, and Knight News obtained Williams’ employee agreement on Wednesday.
Williams’ contract runs through Jan. 31, 2023, and states his annual rate of pay is $600,000. 

Williams will be eligible to receive a bonus equal to one month’s gross salary for winning a conference championship and preparing the team for and coaching in the NCAA sanctioned bowl game.
Williams will be eligible to receive a bonus equal to one-half of one month’s gross salary for preparing the team for and coaching in an NCAA sanctioned bowl game absent a conference championship. 
Williams’ agreement states he will not be eligible for bonus pay in any year in which any NCAA violation involving disciplinary action, whether imposed by the NCAA or self-imposed. 
Additional benefits are listed in the agreement as the following:
Williams may be terminated without cause and the amount due employee for the remainder of the term reduced by any subsequent employment compensation is to be paid in accordance with normal UCF Athletics payroll procedures, the agreement states.
If the head football coach resigns, Williams’ agreement with UCF is terminated and no further payments will be due to him from UCF other than regular earnings and bonuses earned but not yet paid, records show.
Williams may terminate the agreement with UCF without cause. 
If Williams resigns as UCF’s defensive coordinator, UCFAA shall receive either $600,000 if prior or on Jan. 31, 2022, or 50% of the remaining balance of salary payable if after Jan. 31, 2022 through Jan. 31, 2023, the agreement states. 
“This buyout shall be waived by the Director of Athletics if Employee terminates this agreement and accepts a collegiate or professional coaching position where said employee is determined to be the Head Coach.”
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



Travis Williams has been named UCF’s defensive coordinator by new head coach Gus Malzahn on Wednesday. 
Spending a short period apart, Williams and Malzahn will be reunited at UCF.
During Williams’ five seasons as linebacker coach under Malzahn, the Tigers ranked No. 5 in the NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision. The team allowed only 54 rushing TDs — allowing eight in the 2016 season and nine in the 2018 season.
The 2018 Auburn defense ranked No. 14 nationally in scoring defense (19.2) and allowed only nine those rushing touchdowns. 
The Tigers ranked in the top 20 nationally in sacks and tackles for loss and were ninth nationally with three interception returns for touchdowns.
In 2017, SEC West champion Auburn ranked No. 14 in the country in total defense (319.4) and No. 12 in scoring defense (18.5). The team allowed just 4.67 yards per play, ranking No. 8 nationally.
In 2016, the Tigers ranked No. 11 in red-zone defense and No. 28 in total defense (361.9), an improvement of 43 spots over the previous season and held eight consecutive oppo­nents without a rushing TD — longest season streak at Auburn since 1957, UCF said in a release. 
Williams played for the NFL Atlanta Falcons during the 2006 and 2007 seasons, before beginning his coaching career, UCF said. 
“My family and I are excited to now be a part of the UCF family,” Williams said. “I’m blessed to have the opportunity to serve the young men in our program…”
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



