UCF just accomplished a feat it hasn’t been able to achieve in nearly a year.
With their 14-10 victory over the Tulane Green Wave on Saturday, the Knights picked up their third consecutive win for the first time since Nov. 14, 2020.
The win guaranteed bowl eligibility, given they will finish the season with a record at the .500 mark or higher.
It wasn’t pretty – some parts were, others were not – but the Knights were able to avoid the upset and come away with the homecoming victory over Tulane.
UCF freshman quarterback Mikey Keene — coming off a career-high five-touchdown performance vs. Temple — continued to play like a true Division 1 starting quarterback in the Knights’ win.
Keene looked comfortable in the pocket throughout the entirety of the game, which is something Knight fans haven’t seen much of from the freshman this season.
Prior to last weekend’s win at Temple, Keene had the tendency of making your typical freshman QB mistakes: misfiring on his targets, failing to identify the open receiver downfield, and lacking pocket awareness.
Showing his progress, Keene threw a 53-yard bomb to junior receiver Ryan O’Keefe in the first quarter. 
Keene took the third-down snap, stepped back into the pocket, and launched a perfectly-placed deep ball to O’Keefe, who took it down to Tulane’s 19 yard line, resulting in UCF’s longest offensive play of the season.
Three plays later, Keene found O’Keefe again for the 15-yard touchdown, capping off the drive.
Keene made the biggest play of the game when delivering an on-target missile to senior receiver Brandon Johnson, who took it in for the 23-yard touchdown.
The score put the Knights ahead 14-10 with just 5:55 remaining in the game — a lead they would not let go.
Keene ended his night completing 19 of 25 passes for 229 yards and two touchdowns.
O’Keefe, who hit the 1,000-yard mark in career receiving yards on Saturday, exploited Tulane’s secondary, which ranks among the nation’s bottom 10 defenses in passing yards allowed per game.  
The junior receiver picked on the Green Wave corners with his speed — something he takes great pride in — ending the day hauling in game-highs 11 passes and 94 receiving yards, topped off by a touchdown.
UCF’s defense, which has held its past two opponents to just seven points each since allowing 56 to Cincinnati, carried its recent dominance into Saturday’s win.
The greatest challenge the Knights faced going into this game was Tulane’s run game, which accounted for nearly 70 percent of the Green Wave’s total yards against 6 Cincinnati.  
UCF was able to limit Tulane’s rush attack, to 132 rushing yards — 20 yards less than it’s season average of 152 yards per game.
The Knights’ front seven forced it’s way to 11 tackles-for-loss, netting for 43 yards.
The most noteworthy of these occurred when Knights’ senior DB Bryson Armstrong laid a massive hit on Tulane freshman back Tyjae Spears, resulting in a five-yard loss.
The Knights defense also registered five quarterback sacks, netting for 29 lost yards and forcing two fumbles.
During the first quarter, UCF head coach Gus Malzahn suffered a knee injury after being rolled up on by a Tulane defender during a play.
Malzahn was evaluated by the UCF medical staff and was given a brace, which he wore while coaching the remainder of the game.
The Knights’ coach was evidently in pain, limping back-and-forth along the sidelines.
UCF Director of Athletics Terry Mohajir provided an update on the coach in the midst of the game.
“He is just fine, just banged up his knee,” Mohajir said
The above quote came from AD Terry Mohajir when talking to UCF staff on the sidelines shortly after the injury. Knight News spoke with Mohajir and asked for more information. Mohajir told us, “He is fine, just banged up his knee” and will stay out there.
During the post-game press conference  Malzahn joked about the incident, describing it as “embarrassing” and told media he would be “just fine.”
With the win, UCF improves to 6-3 on the season.
The Knights will travel to University Park, TX next Saturday to take on the SMU Mustangs (7-2).  Kickoff is scheduled for noon.
The game will be aired on ESPNU.



During the first quarter of the UCF Knights’ game vs. Tulane, head coach Gus Malzahn might have “blown out his knee,” after being tackled during a play, according to UCF Director of Athletics Terry Mohajir.
UCF FOOTBALL HEAD COACH GUS MALZAHN WAS TACKLED DURING A PLAY IN THD FIRST QUARTER AND MIGHT HAVE “blown out his knee”. UCF Medical team is evaluating the extent of the damage and is expected to wear a brace for the rest of the game. #gusmalzahn #UCFootball
The UCF medical team was seen evaluating the extent of Malzahn’s injury and the coach is expected to wear a brace for the remainder of the game.
Knight News spoke with Mohajir shortly after the injury, asking for more information regarding Malzahn’s injury.
“He is just fine, just banged up his knee,” Mohajir said.  
Malzahn is expected to remain on the field for the remainder of the game.
This breaking story will be updated as more news becomes available.



Its Gameday and UCF will take on the Tulane Green Wave to end homecoming week at the Bounce House. Here are Game Day parking and tailgate updates to remember to avoid any citations or towing. 
SATURDAY 11/6: 
All game day parking and tailgating will open on most of the campus at 10 a.m. 
Free parking for students with the appropriate university permits will be in garages A, B, I, and lots B5, B6, B9, and H4. 
You are required to have an Athletics Gold Zone parking pass for garages C, D, F, and lots C1-C3, D1-D2, and E1-E8. Vehicles parked in the areas without the required game-day permits will be subject to towing beginning at 5 a.m. on Saturday. 
Overnight parking will be prohibited to all guests in garage H and parking lot B4, which will be reserved on game day for university business. 
Students who are at the Downtown and Rosen College Campuses can take a shuttle bus to the main campus at 2 p.m. Shuttles will leave campus and return to those locations at 8 p.m. 
East Plaza Drive will close at 2 a.m. on Saturday and remain closed throughout the day. 
Starting at 5:30 p.m. all lanes on North Boulevard will be used for traffic exiting campus. No traffic will be able to enter campus via North Orion Boulevard. 
All parking for guests without UCF permits can buy daily permits here: https://secure.parking.ucf.edu/ParkingPortal/DayPermits/DayPermitInfo.aspx
TAILGATING SATURDAY 11/6: 
All Tailgating lots will open at 10 a.m. 
IOA Plaza opens at 12 p.m.  
The Motorcross performances on Memory mall will take place at 12:45 p.m. 1:30 p.m. and 2:15 p.m. 
Knight Walk on IOA plaza will take place at 1:50 p.m. 
Student Gates to the stadium will open at 2 p.m. will all other gates opening at 2: 30 p.m. 
March To Victory on East Plaza Drive will take place at 2:30 p.m. 
A musical performance from Sister Hazel on IOA Plaza will take place at 2:30 p.m. 
Kickoff will be at 4:02 p.m. inside the Bounce House. 




