The UCF Knights have added a new member to their kicking room with a commitment from Appalachian State transfer Ryker Casey.
Casey, who announced the news on Twitter Tuesday, took a redshirt during his freshman 2020-21 season with the Mountaineers and will head to Orlando with four years of eligibility remaining. 
Thank you to all the coaches that have reached out to me and big thanks to my family and friends for support. With that being said I am going to finish the rest of my collegiate clock at the University of Central Florida!#ChargeOn @CoachB_Blackmon @CoachGusMalzahn @BenLarsonUCF pic.twitter.com/iu6LcUeaDF
Although Casey never got the opportunity to attempt any field goals or extra points his redshirt season, the freshman competed in nine of Appalachian State’s twelve games as a place-kicker. 
Casey attempted a total of 50 kickoffs during the 2020 season for a total of 2,761 yards, averaging 55.2 yards per kick.  In addition, the freshman tallied up 14 touchbacks, with only two kickoffs going out-of-bounds.
Casey was ranked No. 3 in the nation out of all 2021 transfer kickers, according to Kohl’s Kicking Camp.  
“Casey showed throughout the camp that he can compete against some of the best in the country and will be an impactful player from day 1,” Kohl’s praised the new Knight.
The site also includes that Casey record a “massive” 76-yard kickoff attempt with a hang time of 3.96 seconds at the 2021 Kohl’s transfer challenge.
Coming out of high school, Kohl’s had Casey ranked as the No. 19 overall kicker in the class of 2019.  
The camp spoke highly of Casey during his senior year of high school, saying he “showed some of the most impressive leg strength we saw at camp during the kick off charting.”  
Kohl’s also included how Casey did a good job fielding kicks during some “very windy conditions.”
Extremely blessed to receive an offer from The University of Central Florida. Thank you to                     @CoachB_Blackmon @CoachGusMalzahn @BenLarsonUCF #ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/YPtjl2VpBo
Casey will look to compete with current Knight sophomore place-kicker Daniel Obaeski for the starting kicking position this offseason.
Check back with Knight News for updates.



UCF student Michael Delgado is close to graduating and was able to showcase his musical composition Wednesday night at Marching Knights Pavilion. 
Delgado, a music performance and composition major, presented the musical pieces he has written throughout his time in the music program at his designated recital. 
“The recital at the end of our career in college, it’s what everything adds up to,” Delgado said. “This is pretty much all my work, this is everything I’ve done, and this is what it has amounted to.” 
Although the recital is a requirement for music majors, Delgado said it is a special time for students like him, as they have the opportunity to play their music in front of an audience. 
He said over time he has built a repertoire of diverse sounds through working privately with Alexander Burtzos, composer and music composition professor at UCF. 
Burtzos is the founder and Artistic Director of ICEBERG New Music, a New York-based composers’ collective dedicated to increasing the stylistic and demographic diversity of contemporary classical music. 
Through his expertise and teaching, he evaluates each of his student’s strongest points and pushes them in a direction of improving their skills. 
“It’s an overwhelming sense of pride to start working with these students when they have very little practical experience with composition, and then shepherd them through their careers at UCF,” Burtzos said. 



