At least 13 vehicles had their windows shattered and items stolen over the weekend at UCF, and the university said the suspect has been arrested and charges are pending. 
Adarios Zeller was arrested by the Oviedo Police Department on Monday and booked into Seminole County Jail. The 22-year-old worked at Door Dash, according to an arrest report by Oviedo Police Department. He was not a student at UCF.
#UCFAlert: Charges from the UCF Police Department are pending for the suspect in the vehicle burglaries that took place on the main campus over the weekend. pic.twitter.com/z4qur74DGr
Zeller was found to be in possession of items related to
multiple burglaries throughout the area. The arrest report confirmed these
burglaries involved the University of Central Florida. Over 10 victim’s credit
and debit cards were found, along with driver’s licenses, cell phones, and
iPads, the arrest report said.
On Monday, the Oviedo Police Department responded to a
vehicle burglary at Oviedo Grove Apartments, according to the arrest report.
The suspect fled the scene after committing the crime. Police found Zeller at
Oviedo on the Park. 
A resident in the apartment complex had video surveillance
of the suspect committing the burglary. 
Zeller tried to avoid confessing to Oviedo Police, said
Durell Solomon in the arrest report.
“I went as far as showing Adarios a brief clip of the video
surveillance of him committing the vehicle burglary, and he advised he did not
want to speak about the incident, and he was ready to go to jail,” Solomon
said.
According to the arrest report, Zeller was in possession of cocaine, marijuana, and additional drug paraphernalia.
Zeller is facing multiple
burglary and drug charges. The charges are alleged but marked as probable
cause. The arrest report said there is probable cause Zeller violated probation
conditions by committing a new crime.
The recovered items will be returned to their owners, a UCF Alert said.
Click to the next page to see public records. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



