Joining Knight Nation is something that Gus Malzahn has eyed for the last couple of weeks. 
The interest turned into reality on Monday morning, when UCF named Malzahn the new head coach of the UCF football team. 
UCF held a press conference with Malzahn on Monday afternoon, along with UCF president Alexander Cartwright, and new Director of Athletics and former colleague of Malzahn, Terry Mohajir.
“Before even Terry (Mohjir) was hired, I was interested,” Malzahn said in the press conference. “When this job came open, I told my wife that this is one were going to be very interested in. Then when Terry got the athletic director, it was one I wanted to full-court press. When he offered the job, it was like ‘I’m in.’”
Mohajir was hired Feb. 9 to replace Danny White, who left UCF and is now the athletic director at Tennessee. 
As Arkansas State’s AD, Mohajir worked with head coach Malzahn in 2012, where he led the Red Wolves to a 10-3 record and a Sun Belt Conference title in his lone season at ASU.
Mohajir said that when he started the search process, it became evident — based on conversations with the players and what they were looking for — that Malzahn was the guy for the job. 
“He has won at every level, and he has coached a Heisman Trophy winner and NFL draft picks,” Mohajir said. “There has never been a better time for Coach Malzahn to lead this program than right now.”
Malzahn joins UCF after being released from the head coaching position at Auburn on Dec. 13, 2020. 
After weeks of considering his next career move, Malzahn jumped at the opportunity of joining the UCF football program as head coach. 
“This to me is one of the top 20 coaching jobs in all of college football,” Malzahn said.
Let’s get to work! #ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/Be0A5Hqlrm
After a disappointing 6-4 record last season for UCF, Malzahn said his goal is to win championships, along with hopes of making the College Football Playoffs and New Year Six bowl games. 
Offensively, the Knights are expected to be led by sophomore quarterback Dillon Gabriel. Gabriel finished top five in passing yards and passing touchdowns last season. 
Malzahn comes in embracing the “explosive” offense of UCF, with a goal to finish top 10 in the country in total offense.
Likewise, Malzahn said another goal of his is to finish top 10 in the country on the defensive end. 
Under Malzahn, Auburn ranked in the top 20 in total defense in four seasons, dating back to 2016 according to the NCAA. 
“If you’re going to truly win a championship, you’ve got to play championship defense, it can’t just be offense,” he said.
While Malzahn fills the head coaching position, the hunt for his complimenting staff lies ahead. White’s departure to Tennessee started a chain effect within the Knights’ coaching staff. First to follow was former head coach Josh Heupel, followed by former assistant coaches Alex Golesh and Glen Elarbee, and former quarterback coach Joey Halzle. 
Malzahn said he hopes to finalize his coaching staff within the next week. In the search, he said he will be getting coaches who will be great examples for the players.
“What a great dad looks like. What a great husband looks like,” Malzahn said. “I told my players ‘I’m going to get coaches that truly care about them as a person and invest in their life.’”
Staying local with recruitment is another strategy we can expect to see from the Knights going forward. 
Malzahn expressed his focus on “staying within six hours” for recruitment, focusing their recruitment efforts in Florida, Georgia, and Alabama. 
With the Knights defeating Auburn in the 2018 Peach Bowl and claiming the “National Champions” title, Malzahn said he loves the expectations that he is coming into as head coach of UCF. 
Malzahn said he is a dreamer and loves expectations. 
“I want our players to dream. I want our fans to dream. When you put expectations, that’s the fun part. I don’t want a job that doesn’t have expectations to win a championship. That’s not me,” Malzahn said. “I love the fact that, like I said, the foundation is built, there’s been some really good success, and it just needs to kind of be that next step and that consistency, and that’s what I’m here for.”



UCF announced Gus Malzahn as the new head football coach on Monday — here’s what is known about his agreement with the university:
The employment contract — which UCF has not yet presented according to this agreement — will be for a period of five years, ending Dec. 31, 2025. He will earn $2.3 million per year, records show. 
The new head coach will have the authority — subject to the reasonable approval of the AD and to budgetary limitations established by the football program — to hire, manage, discipline, and terminate assistant coaches and other staff members who report directly to him, the agreement reads. 
The full Memorandum of Understanding can be read here. 
Buyout/Termination Clause: 
“It is with great anticipation and enthusiasm that I offer you the position with UCFAA of Head Football Coach at the University of Central Florida,” the agreement reads.
This is developing and will be updated with new information. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



As news circulated that Gus Malzahn was offered the UCF head coaching position, quarterback Dillon Gabriel made a few changes to his social media accounts.
Gabriel first changed his Twitter photo and header to a photo of him wearing his Hawaii high school jersey on Sunday evening, and then to a photo of  UCF teammates who are also from Hawaii. 
While some fans thought it could mean the sophomore quarterback was transferring, others took to social media to question the potential coaching hire and Gabriel’s reaction — Knight News tweeted at Gabriel to seek clarity. 
.@_dillongabriel_ I wanted to ask why you made changes to your social media — our readers are worried it means you will transfer.Will you?Are you disappointed in UCF’s Malzahn offer?We owe it to our readers to ask these questions and hope you can shed light.– @megnturner_
Some UCF fans saw the changes to Gabriel’s social media as a sign he could be transferring schools. 
If @_dillongabriel_ leaves UCF b/c @TerryMohajirAD ignoring the obvious options for HC, Terry is going to have a shitty ass year trying to calm players, fans, and donors. A week in and shooting himself in the foot already. #ucf
Stop being a female.  Milton and Mack transferred out for you to be the man.  Start acting like the man.  A high school senior is joining you from across the country because he believes in you.  Don’t bail on your guys.  @_dillongabriel_
Other UCF fans speculated Gabriel was distancing himself from the program because he did not agree with the possible hiring of a coach. 
Gonna be real here. There’s some serious maturity issues when you cryptically distance yourself from a program because a hire doesn’t seemingly go your way.
@_dillongabriel_ was so hyped at the prospect of hiring @Coach_Leb. He rallied the team, pulled a great WR in and now he is separating himself from UCF. @TerryMohajirAD please read this and reconsider. Lebby is what we all want!
This meltdown feels the same as it did when we thought we were getting Sterk. Hopefully just a smoke screen….
Gabriel’s social media looks to have to its previous appearance, and it is not immediately known what prompted the changes. 
Knight News has not heard back from Gabriel by the time of publication. 
Editorial Note: 
UCF Athletics sends a reminder for all media members to not contact coaches or players directly at the end of most emails. With no scheduled media availability or a chance to ask questions, Knight News made the editorial decision to contact Gabriel using Twitter.
Knight News has concluded that UCF’s policy and practice of banning reporters from simply asking questions is unconstitutional and violates the First Amendment, based on scholarly research conducted by Frank D. LoMonte. 
Knight News will immediately defend itself in court if UCF retaliates in any way against Knight News or its reporters for simply doing their jobs.
This is a developing story.Check back with Knight News for updates. 



