Gene McDowell, the winningest coach in UCF football history, has died at the age of 80.
One of UCF’s most impactful football figures and the longest-tenured coach in program history died Tuesday morning in Quincy, Florida, the university said.
McDowell’s 12-year tenure at UCF left a historic legacy on the football program. 
We wouldn't be where we are today without his vision and passion for UCF.Rest in Peace, Coach 🙏
McDowell — who served as the head coach for the then-Golden Knights from 1985 to 1997 — constructed a career record of 86-61 during his time as head coach.
McDowell inherited the UCF football team as a Division II program in 1985 — before he stepped down from the head coaching position in 1997, he turned the program into a competing Division I program. 
UCF’s first two players were selected in the 1987 NFL Draft under his leadership.
Wide receiver Ted Wilson was selected by the Washington Football Team in the 10th round, and running back Elgin Davis was selected in the 12th round by the New England Patriots. 
After starting the 1988 season with five straight wins, McDowell led UCF to a No. 2 national ranking in the Division II poll. 
Within five years — in 1990 — UCF began competing as a Division I-AA independent, now known as the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision. UCF did not compete in Division I football until 1996.
While holding the head coaching position, McDowell also served as the university’s athletic director from 1985 through 1992. He is commonly known as the “Father of UCF Football” for helping the program grow on-and-off the field. 
McDowell — who also inherited the financial struggles of the struggling athletics department that came before him — is credited for saving UCF football by securing the football program’s first donation of $1 million from Wayne Densch. 
Knight Nation has McDowell to thank for bringing former UCF and former NFL quarterback Daunte Culpepper to campus.
In 1997, McDowell’s last season as the Knights’ head coach, junior quarterback Culpepper set 15 school records.
Culpepper was ultimately selected by the Minnesota Vikings in the first round — 11th overall — of the 1999 NFL Draft. 
Before McDowell stepped into the role of the head coach and athletic director at UCF, he was a former player and served in a number of coaching positions — most notably with his former team and alma mater, Florida State.
McDowell coached the Seminoles’ defensive ends from 1974 to 1975 and the linebackers from 1976 to 1984, just before joining UCF.
He went on to win the Eddie Robinson Award in 1990, which is awarded to the top head coach in the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision.
Former UCF players and close friends lobbied to get McDowell inducted into the UCF Hall of Fame, but the UCF has a rule that no individual with a felony conviction can be admitted.
McDowell retired from his head coaching position at UCF after pleading guilty to felony charges involving a former player who started selling discounted phones to members of the football team. The former player’s girlfriend set up the phones for free prompting an investigation — McDowell’s involvement stemmed from alerting the active team members the FBI would be conducting a search of the lockers, the Orlando Sentinel reports. 
The Orlando Sentinel reports he is survived by his wife, Peggy; son, Blake; and an extended family of football players and friends.
UCF said arrangements are still pending regarding McDowell’s funeral. The Sentinel reports the McDowell family is planning a memorial service, with details to be announced soon.
Check back with Knight News for updates. 



