Six members of the UCF Knights’ 2020-21 football team are currently rookies in the NFL.  Here is an update on how each former Knight is performing just two days ahead of the NFL’s 53-man roster deadline.
The four-year former Knights’ safety was selected by the Atlanta Falcons with the No. 40 overall pick in the Second Round of the 2021 NFL draft.  
Through two preseason games with the Falcons, Grant has recorded a total of five solo tackles and one pass break-up. This includes a four-solo tackle performance during the Falcons’ preseason opener against the Tennessee Titans.
Grant is currently listed as the third-string free safety on the depth chart provided on the team’s site.
Grant and the Falcons are set to close out their preseason slate, as they host the Cleveland Browns on Sunday at 8 p.m.
During his 2020 senior season with the Knights, Grant led the team in tackles. He recorded 72 on the year and 3.5 of those were tackles-for-loss.  Grant racked up a team-high three interceptions, two forced fumbles, two fumble recoveries, a sack, and a quarterback hurry.
Aaron Robinson, who played defensive back for the Knights from 2018-2020, was the No. 71 pick in the Third Round of the 2021 NFL Draft by the New York Giants.
The former Knight has not seen any preseason action thus far.  This could change when the Giants close out their preseason slate vs. the New England Patriots on Sunday at 6:00 p.m.
Robinson is listed as the fourth string for the Giants’ left cornerback position, according to the depth chart posted on the team’s site.
During his senior season with UCF, Robinson recorded a total of 41 tackles – 31 of those being solo stops. The former Knight led the team with seven pass breakups.
Former UCF wide receiver Jacob Harris was selected in the Fourth Round of the 2021 NFL draft by the Los Angeles Rams with the No. 141 overall pick.
Harris has appeared in all three of the Rams’ preseason games, recording five catches for a total of 45 yards — this includes a notable four-reception, 43-yard outing in the Rams’ preseason opener against the Los Angeles Chargers.
Harris is listed as a fourth-string tight end for the Rams, according to the team’s depth chart.
During his three-year tenure with the Knights, Harris was just 13 yards shy of the 1,000-yard mark, recording a total of 987 reception yards.  In addition, Harris scored nine reception touchdowns for the Knights.
Gowan, who played cornerback for the Knights during the 2020 season, was selected No. 223 overall in the Sixth Round of the 2021 NFL draft by the Arizona Cardinals. This made Gowan the first-ever UCF Knight drafted by the Arizona Cardinals.
During the Cardinals’ two preseason games, Gowan recorded a total of seven tackles — five of which were solo tackles, and one pass break-up.  
The Cardinals were originally scheduled to play their last preseason game at New Orleans against the Saints on Aug. 28, but that contest was canceled due to the development of Hurricane Ida.
On the depth chart listed on the Cardinals’ team site, Gowan is currently listed as a fourth-string.
During his lone junior season with the Knights, Gowan began the season playing the backup corner role. That didn’t last long, however, as Gowan seized his starting opportunity when filling in for original starting CB Brandon Moore, who suffered a season-ending injury during the Knights’ season opener vs. FAMU. 
Gowan took full advantage of this opportunity, ultimately finishing the 2020-21 season racking up a total of 31 tackles, two interceptions, eight passes defended, a fumble recovery, and a tackle-for-loss.  The former Knight defensive back’s 2020 performance earned him second-team all-conference honors.
With their final pick, the New England Patriots selected former UCF receiver Tre Nixon in the Seventh Round of the 2021 NFL draft at pick No. 242 overall.
According to ESPN, Nixon is the third-string for the Patriots’ wide receiver 3 position.
Nixon has not seen any action in the two preseason games the Patriots have completed thus far.  The former Knight could see some action on Sunday, making his debut, as the Patriots face the New York Giants in East Rutherford, NJ at 6:00 PM EST.
During his three-year tenure at UCF, Nixon started in every game he participated in with the Knights.   Notably, during his junior season, Nixon hauled in 49 catches that went for a total of 830 yards.  In addition, the former Knight tallied seven touchdown receptions.
Former UCF running back Otis Anderson was signed by the Los Angeles Rams to a three-year deal as an undrafted free agent during the 2021 NFL offseason.  This came after the team’s starting running back, Cam Akers, suffered a season-ending Achilles injury in July.
Anderson has only appeared in one of the Rams’ three preseason games.  In his lone performance vs. the Denver Broncos, Anderson rushed for 10 yards on three attempts.  In addition, Anderson caught two passes for a total of 16 receiving yards.
The former four-year Knight is currently listed as the Rams’ fourth-string running back.
Anderson had an eventful career with UCF, averaging 6.1 yards-per-carry during his Knights career, which ranks second all-time in program history.  This includes his notable 2020 junior season, where he was the Knights’ best all-purpose threat and leading rusher with 726 total rushing yards on 113 attempts.
The deadline for NFL teams to have their rosters cut to 53 players is Tuesday, Aug. 31 at 4 p.m. EST.



