 The Big 12 officially extended a membership invitation to UCF to join the conference after an approved vote by its Board of Directors Friday morning.  
The Big 12 conference Board of Directors met and voted to extend memberships to the University of Cincinnati, the University of Houston, Brigham Young University, and the University of Central Florida.  
After requiring an affirmative vote of a supermajority of Directors, the extension of membership was made official after the vote was approved unanimously by all eight of the continuing members.  
The UCF Board of Trustees has scheduled an emergency meeting Friday afternoon at 3:15 p.m. to discuss the school’s membership invitation with the Big 12, where they are expected to officially announce their acceptance into the conference. 
“This is a landmark day for anyone ever associated with UCF or UCF Athletics,” Director of Athletics Terry Mohajir said.  “As we anticipate a future move to the Big 12 Conference, we first owe a vote of thanks to all those at UCF who have gone before us.” 
The emergency meeting comes off the news of UCF officially submitting their application Wednesday to the Big 12 to join the conference. 
With the expected approval to accept the invitation to join the conference by the UCF Board of Trustees, the Knights will officially become part of the Power Five conferences. 
UCF President Alexander N. Cartwright said he believes the expansion will only advance the university’s prestige going forward.
“As we strive to become the world’s leading metropolitan research university, we know our achievements in our classrooms and laboratories, and in our community are enhanced by our national recognition in athletic competition,” Cartwright said. “This invitation will only strengthen that relationship.”
The move into the Big 12 Conference will not only affect the strength of schedule and improve UCF’s ability to move up the College Football Rankings but will give the Knight’s added legitimacy in the eyes of the nation that fans of Knight Nation have been waiting years for. 
It’s an exciting brand-new chapter here at UCF. 
This is Big. #ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/B0vcprwPzN
Check back with Knight News for updates.



