UCF said it is testing wastewater from dorms on the main campus to detect COVID-19 and announced random COVID-19 testing will resume next week. 
“This testing will be used in dorms to monitor the presence of the coronavirus — which can be detected in human waste up to two weeks after someone has had COVID-19,” the statement reads. 
UCF said the testing wastewater from dorms will not determine traces of the virus from specific rooms or floors, but rather it will help the university understand if the presence of COVID-19 stays the same, increases or decreases in buildings from week to week.
Testing is currently scheduled to cover five residence halls, and samples will be collected one time per week — on weekdays — throughout the semester for the five dorms that will be monitored. 
UCF said the testing frequency may change throughout the semester as necessary.
UCF said to be able to monitor the wastewater from the dorms, a pump needed to be installed at a sewer main for each housing community. 
Melanie Beazley, assistant professor in the chemistry department, is leading the wastewater collection and testing process. Beazley’s research interest at UCF focuses on wastewater and the testing method being used for this project is similar to ones she’s conducted in the past, UCF said. 
“This is an important step for the university to take to continue to strengthen COVID-19 mitigation efforts and to keep making the health and safety of student, faculty and staff a priority,” Beazley said in the news release. 
After samples are collected, 1 liter of the wastewater is filtered and tested using guidelines established by the Centers for Disease Control to determine the level of the virus, if it is present — UCF said this takes about 24 hours to 48 hours. 
“When you’re working with water waste you’re working with many pathogens, so from a lab standpoint we have to have all safety practices in place, from wearing face shields, gloves, masks and gowns to how we bleach and clean our surfaces,” Beazley said.
UCF said it continues to enhance its safety measures this spring as more students are welcomed back to campus and return to face-to-face instruction. 
Last fall, UCF took measures like reducing seating capacity in classes, adding hand sanitizing stations across campuses and using disinfectant foggers to conduct efficient cleaning. 
UCF Housing residents — both those returning and new —were required to complete COVID-19 testing and receive a negative result before moving into their assigned building.
Additionally, UCF said messages will be sent to UCF Mobile app users in heavily populated areas to remind the campus community to help keep everyone healthy.  
The release states specialized hardware will be utilized to trigger the messaging, which will include reminders, such as “Armor Up” or “Complete the COVID Self-Checker.”
Check back with Knight News for updates and COVID-19 coverage. 



