The first two games for the UCF women’s basketball team’s 2021-22 season are now set in place, as the Knights will be traveling to compete in the 2021 Cancun Challenge.
The Cancun Challenge will take place at the Hard Rock Hotel Riviera Maya and is set for Nov. 25 to Nov. 27.  The 2021 Cancun Challenge will consist of “programs with solid D-1 resumés,” according to the event’s site.
The event includes two divisions – the Mayan Division and the Riviera Division.  
Teams in the Mayan Division include Arizona State, Baylor, Fordham, and Houston.  The Knights will compete in the Riviera Division, which also includes Idaho State, Iowa, Seton Hall, Toledo, and USC.
After not holding the event in 2020, due to COVID-19, Sarah Molina – the event director – said they “fully expected the Women’s Cancun Challenge to attract its usual standout field for 2021.”  
Molina also included how this event will help teams return to “a normal college basketball season” given the strong competition included in the event.
UCF is set to open up its 2021-22 season at the Hard Rock Hotel Riviera Maya on Thursday, Nov. 26 against USC.  Tip-off for the Knights’ opening game of the challenge is set for 9:00 p.m. EST.
The Knights’ latter game of the event will take place the next day, on Friday, Nov. 27 versus Idaho State.  Tip-off for that contest is also set for 9:00 PM EST.
This will be the first time in UCF history the Knights will be competing in the challenge. They will be doing this with a much-experienced roster which will include eight seniors – three of those being fifth-year seniors.
The Knights’ roster will also include last year’s entire starting five – Brittney Smith, Masseny Kaba, Courtajia Sanders, Alisha Lewis, and Diamond Battles.
Here is the full schedule for the event, per UCF Athletics. All games will be broadcast through FloHoops (www.FloHoops.com).
The 2021 field features four teams – UCF, Baylor, Idaho State and Iowa – that played in the 2020 NCAA Tournament.  
The games will be played in the modified ballroom at the Hard Rock Hotel Riviera Maya. 
Seating is limited and all fans should book land travel packages through Triple Crown Sports for admission into games in Mexico. Travel packages are the only way to guarantee admission to games at this time — contact Sarah Molina at 970-672-0533 (sarah@triplecrownsports.com) or visit the website at www.cancunchallenge.net for more information.



