Ben Shapiro will be making his first on-campus visit since the COVID-19 shutdowns began last March to the University of Central Florida on Oct. 25. 
Young America’s Foundation — a conservative youth organization that introduces students and student activists to conservative ideas through conservative conferences, speakers, and campus lectures — announced on their website that Shapiro will be speaking at UCF through YAF’s Fred and Lynda Allen lecture series this fall. 
YAF spokeswoman Kara Zupkus said she believes with Shapiro returning to campuses to speak with students, it will rejuvenate thousands of conservative students’ enthusiasm to stand up for conservative viewpoints. 
“As students across the country are being bombarded with anti-American ideas like Critical Race Theory, YAF is here to demand that conservative ideas have a place on our nation’s campuses,” Zupkus said. “This first stop on Ben Shapiro’s highly anticipated campus lecture tour will be sure to reignite thousands of passionate conservative students who were forced off their campuses last year by overzealous university bureaucrats.” 
Shapiro was originally set to speak at UCF last March through YAF’s lecture series before being forced to postpone the engagement due to Covid-19 shutdowns.
Shapiro’s first scheduled appearance was met with some disapproval from some students within SG, citing they would not want to allow student funding to cover half the cost of the political commentator’s appearance fee due to him, “not representing the core ideals of the University.” 
The UCF Student Government Senate ultimately voted to allocate $17,875 of student funds to bring Shapiro to UCF’s main campus in February 2020.
The @UCFSG senate votes favorably on Fiscal Bill 52-60 with a count of 25-15-2 to bring @benshapiro to campus. pic.twitter.com/DOIgkCyv6W
By the second week of March 2020, the College Republicans at UCF said the political commentator will no longer be coming to campus due to the pandemic. 
“Out of an abundance of caution for everyone involved in our upcoming Ben Shapiro Lecture, we have decided to postpone the event,” the College Republicans at UCF said in March 2020. “If you have received a ticket for our event, please hold on to it. All tickets will remain valid …”
Shapiro has worked exclusively with Young America’s Foundation for more than 55 campus addresses since 2013, reaching audiences of more than 200,000,000 online during that time. 
Additional details regarding attending this lecture will be made available soon via YAF.org/events and @YAF on Twitter. 
Click to the next page to see previous coverage on this topic. 
Photo Credit: Shapiro photo courtesy of Gage Skidmore.



UCF Director of Athletics Terry Mohajir is reported to have just completed another major task in what has been an eventful offseason for the UCF Knights.  
The Orlando Sentinel reports that Mohajir agreed to a future 2-for-1 series against the Florida Gators, where two games will be played at the Gators’ home in Gainesville and one game will be played at the Bounce House. 
UCF Athletics has not yet made an official announcement by the time of publication.
This has been a much-anticipated matchup, as the two programs previously discussed a potential series back when former UCF AD Danny White was in control of the Knights’ athletic programs.
In December of 2018, UF Director of Athletic Scott Stricklin expressed interest in a 2-for-1 series against the Knights, but a deal was never developed between the two teams. 
During White’s time in the American Athletic Conference, he only scheduled home-and-home series, where both teams got one home game apiece — not 2-for-1 series. Knight News previously reported that Sticklin wouldn’t agree to a home-and-home.
The series is set to begin in 2024 and the Sentinel reports the series will last through 2033, with two of the games will be played in Gainesville in 2024 and 2033 — the lone game in Orlando will be played in 2030.
The 2024 matchup in Gainesville will be only the third meeting of all time between the two teams. The Knights have never defeated the Gators, as they lost their first meeting in 1999 by a score of 58-27, and also fell victim to a 0-42 defeat during the 2006 season.
The Knights will look to take a 3-2 all-time series lead vs. their in-state opponent by the end of the 2033 season.



