Not even a month after Florida’s new law allowing college athletes
to cash in on their name, image and likeness, went into effect, at least two UCF athletes have released promo deals. 
UCF’s quarterback, Dillon Gabriel, released his own brand “DGthebrand”.  Knights basketball player Sean Mobley, as well as Knights football tight-end Charlie Browder is now sponsored, Barstool athletes. Even former UCF Knight McKenzie Milton is taking advantage of the new law at his new program at FSU. 
The athletes’ business ventures are possible thanks to the name
image and likeness, or NIL law, passed by Florida and other states — and because the NCAA finally giving up its fight to block said laws.  
Scott Miller, attorney and former Contract Advisor for NFL players, mentioned some of the precautions these student-athletes should take when undergoing business deals.
”Student-athletes will have to hire the same kind of professionals a pro athlete team would,” Miller said, citing examples such as “an attorney, business manager, legal expert, etc.” 
UCF is prohibited from preventing athletes from earning compensation based on their name, image, and likeness under Florida’s law. While opening NIL opportunities to student-athletes, the policy preserves the commitment to avoid pay-for-play and improper inducements tied to choosing to attend a particular school. These rules remain in effect.
At the end of the day, the main objective for student-athletes was and continues to be to win games and best represent their school. Proponents of the law believe NIL is just giving athletes here at UCF an opportunity to broaden their business opportunities.
Which athletes are taking advantage of these new laws? Check back here for updates. If you know of any UCF student-athlete promotions feel free to email us at news@knightnews.com.



The deadline for NFL teams to have their rosters cut to 53 players was on Tuesday at 4 p.m.  Four of UCF’s six NFL rookies who participated in the 2021 preseason made the cut, as FS Richie Grant, CB Aaron Robinson, TE Jacob Harris, and CB Tay Gowan each earned roster spots.
RB Otis Anderson and WR Tre Nixon were both released prior to the deadline.
Grant, the Knights’ rookie who was selected the earliest in the 2021 NFL Draft at pick No. 40 overall, made the cut for the Atlanta Falcons’ 53-man roster.  Grant is listed as the Falcons’ third string free safety, according to the team’s depth chart.
Robinson, who was the New York Giants’ Third Round pick of the 2021 NFL Draft, was placed on the Giants’ Physically Unable to Perform (PUP) list ahead of Tuesday’s deadline, due to a core injury.  Robinson is currently listed as the fourth string for the left cornerback position on the Giants’ depth chart.
Harris, who played wide receiver for the Knights, was named to the Los Angeles Rams’ 53-man roster as a tight end.  The Rams’ Fourth Round draft pick was one of only four tight ends who made the cut.
It was announced on Tuesday that Gowan, the Arizona Cardinals’ Sixth Round draft pick, earned a roster spot with the team.  The former Knight defensive back’s seven total tackles in the Cardinals’ two preseason games likely played a key factor into the decision.
Gowan is currently the fourth string for the Cardinals’ cornerback 2 spot, according to the team’s depth chart.
Anderson only saw action in one of three preseason games the Los Angeles Rams played.  In the lone contest vs. the Denver Broncos, Anderson had three rushing attempts that went for a total of 10 yards.  The former Knight also hauled in two receptions going for a total of 16 yards.
Like Anderson, Nixon only saw action in one of three games of the New England Patriots’ preseason slate.  Nixon caught two receptions that went for a total of 11 yards in the Patriots’ preseason finale vs. the New York Giants.
Anderson and Nixon are both currently free agents.



