The holiday cheer and excitement of in-person performances and parades returned to Orlando at Seaworld’s Christmas Celebration now until Jan. 2, 2022. No matter how you choose to spend time during the holiday season, there is something for everyone in the family to enjoy at Seaworld’s Christmas celebration. From an-all new Sounds of the Season show, exclusive holiday dishes, a sea of light of trees, returning snow flurries, and a special Christmas firework spectacle over a Winter Wonderland on Ice performance there are plenty of opportunities to experience an abundance of holiday joy at SeaWorld’s’ seasonal event. Here is all you need to know about this year’s holiday offerings. 
SHOWS AND ENTERTAINMENT: 
Holiday Reflections: Fireworks and Fountains Finale: This year’s event will culminate each night with a new fireworks and fountains s show choreographed to joyous holiday musical music that will illuminate the sky by the bayside stadium. The spectacle will take place at the park close each night of the event. 
Sesame Street Christmas Parade: Having not taken place at last year’s event, The Sesame Street Christmas parade is back and features festively decorated floats with show-stopping performances that celebrate the magic of the holiday season. The Sesame Street Christmas Parade features fantastic, festively decorated floats with show-stopping performances that celebrate the magic of the holiday season! The whole family will experience an energetic Christmas celebration with Sesame Street friends, including Elmo, Cookie Monster, Abby, Bert, Ernie, and more. Your family is sure to sing, dance, and be merry with their favorite furry friends! 
Snow Flurries: 
 As you pass by restaurants and shops for holiday gifts at the Shoppes at Waterfront, at certain times of the night guests will experience snow flurries falling from the sky paired with festive music that will surely make for a unique experience for guests to see “snow” in the hot and humid climate of Florida. 
Meet Santa: 
All new this holiday season, you will have the opportunity to take your family and friends inside the Wild Arctic experience o meet the North Pole’s most famous resident, Santa Claus. 
Public Ice Skating at Bayside Stadium: 
Guests can now experience outdoor ice skating at Bayside Stadium during daytime park hours! An additional charge will be required which includes the rental of ice skates. All guests must wear crew-length socks and gloves. Socks and gloves can also be purchased. Guests will not be allowed to bring ice skates into the park.  
Sounds of the Season Performance Series: 
An all-new experience of festive music makes its way to SeaWorld for this year’s Christmas Celebration! Guests will be able to see a variety of musical acts being brought to life on the Nautilus Theater stage. These special performances will be held on specific event dates now through Jan. 2 
Winter Wonderland On Ice: 
The pinnacle show of the event will be the Winter Wonderland on Ice at Bayside Stadium. The Christmas season will be brought to life on a stage of ice, and lights as skaters dazzle and delight in a show-stopping, ice skating experience. The show will be paired with a sea of sparkling trees and towering water fountains dancing in the background that will be brought together with classic Christmas tunes that will make for a highlight of any guest’s experience. 
The Verdict: 
Seaworld’s Christmas Celebration does not hold back on the Aesthetic and vibe of the holiday season with almost anywhere you turn, dazzling lights and decorations combined with familiar Christmas tunes make for one of the most memorable seasonal experiences that families and friends will sure find merry and bright. The event rivals any holiday-themed event at any theme park in the central Florida area that guests will be sure to remember and could add to their yearly holiday joy. 
Ticket info: 
Discounts on tickets to this seasonal event as well as discounts on exclusive merchandise and special experiences and add ons can be found on the link below. 
https://seaworld.com/orlando/events/christmas-celebration/buy-tickets-and-upgrades/



