With UCF junior QB Dillon Gabriel out indefinitely with a fractured clavicle, UCF freshman QB Mikey Keene was the man in charge of the UCF offense heading into their American Athletic Conference opener vs. Navy.
In his first-ever collegiate career start, Keene threw a touchdown completion on his first pass-attempt of the game.  The freshman QB connected with senior wide receiver Brandon Johnson from 15 yards out to give the Knights the early 7-0 lead.  
This score was set up by a Navy fumble forced by UCF junior defensive lineman Cam Goode that was recovered by senior defensive lineman Anthony Montalvo.  
Navy had an immediate response.  Midshipman QB Tai Lavatai scrambled for a seven-yard touchdown to tie the game up at 7 apiece.  This 75-yard Navy scoring drive came strictly from the ground game, as the Midshipmen did not attempt a single pass. 
Navy would rely heavily on its run game throughout entirety of the contest, attempting just four passes on the day.  
Keene and the Knights had a rebuttal, completing a 75-yard touchdown drive of their own.  This one was capped off by a 16-yard rushing touchdown by junior wide receiver Amari Johnson.  A 34-yard reception by sophomore running back Johnny Richardson help set up the score.  The extra point attempt was blocked, however, making the score 13-7 with 56 seconds remaining in the first quarter.
After UCF held Navy to just a field goal after a 68-yard Midshipmen drive, Keene connected with Johnson for a touchdown, again.  The 23-yard touchdown extended the Knights lead to 20-10 with 6:26 remaining in the second quarter.
A blocked UCF punt-attempt, which Navy recovered in the end-zone for the touchdown, reduced the Knights’ lead to three points, making the score 20-17 with 1:34 left in the first half.
UCF took advantage of this spare amount of remaining time, using every second of it to complete an 11-play, 67-yard drive, which was capped off by a 28-yard Daniel Obarski field goal.  This extended UCF’s lead to 23-17 as time expired.
Though, Keene was the man in control of the Knights’ offense in the game, he wasn’t the only quarterback who got reps under center.  Junior quarterback Joey Gatewood also saw some action, rushing for a 10-yard score to increase UCF’s lead to 13 points with 2:55 remaining in the third quarter.
Gatewood’s touchdown was set up by another Navy fumble forced by Goode, again, that was recovered by the Knights at Navy’s 10 yard-line.  With his second forced-fumble, Goode tied the UCF record for forced-fumbles in a single game (2).
Things began to go downhill for the Knights from that point, however.
After a 23-yard Navy field goal reduced UCF’s lead to 10 points, UCF’s offense went three-and-out, in which Navy responded with another score.  A one-yard touchdown run by Lavatai made it a 30-27 game, putting the Midshipmen back within striking distance.
On the following drive, Navy recovered a UCF fumble on its own 47 yard-line.  The Midshipmen offense took advantage of the opportunity provided by its defense, using strictly its ground game.  An 11-play, 53-yard Navy drive would be capped off by a 4-yard touchdown run by fullback Isaac Ruoss to give the Midshipmen the 34-30 lead with just 3:09 remaining in the game.
On UCF’s final drive of the game, Keene threw a fourth-down interception in the end-zone with just 24 seconds remaining in the game.
With the 34-30 loss, UCF falls to 2-2 on the season.  The Knights will take the field  next when they host East Carolina on Oct. 9.



The UCF Knights (2-1) will look to rebound from their Sept. 17 loss at Louisville as they open American Athletic Conference play at Navy (0-3) to take on the Midshipmen on Saturday.
Here is a preview of the Knights’ conference-opening matchup.
The UCF offense, which ranks third in the nation with its average of 553.3 yards per game, will be led by freshman quarterback Mikey Keene, who will be making his first-career collegiate start on Saturday.
Keene, who was a three-star recruit at Chandler High School, located in Arizona, has made just one appearance for the Knights this season. He steps in after Knights’ junior starting quarterback Dillon Gabriel broke his clavicle on the final play of the loss against the Louisville Cardinals.
In the Knights’ Sept. 11 win vs. Bethune-Cookman, Keene completed four-of-seven pass attempts, throwing for 55 yards and a touchdown.
Keene has momentum on his side, as the freshman quarterback is currently on a 23-game winning streak in games he has started under center, going back to his high school days.
If Mikey Keene is the starter – crazy coincidence. He has won his last 23 starts at Chandler (AZ). McKenzie Milton won his last 23 starts at UCF.Mikey Keene passed for 23 TDs & 2 INTs last year with a 69% completion % as he led Chandler to their 5th straight AZ title. pic.twitter.com/ElHvNhK91x
UCF head coach Gus Malzahn had some optimistic words to say regarding his freshman QB this week.
“He’s won championships. UCF is in good hands,” Malzahn told 96.9 “The Game.”
Where do the Knights have the advantage going into Saturday’s game?
UCF’s biggest weakness this season has been their ability to defend the pass. The Knights are allowing 276 passing yards per contest, which is among the bottom-17 of all NCAA D1 defenses. 
Fortunately for the Knights, they will be facing an opponent who doesn’t utilize their pass game much.  
Navy has only thrown for 191 total yards through its three games this season, ranking last in the nation. The team’s 63.7 passing yards per game also has them at last-place.
UCF’s strong offensive unit is another feature the Knights could use to their advantage in Saturday’s conference opener.  
The Knights have seen much success in both the run and the pass game through their three games. UCF is averaging 252.3 rushing yards per game, which is No. 12 in the nation.
The Knights also average 301 passing yards per contest, ranking No. 21.
Senior running back Isaiah Bowser has been the primary reason for the success of the Knights ground game, leading the team with 268 total rushing yards on the young season. Bowser has also rushed for five touchdowns on the year, ranking among the nation’s top-21 rushers.  
UCF junior running back Trillion Coles has also played a significant role in the Knights’ run game. The junior back has rushed for 129 yards on 18 total attempts, averaging 6.8 yards per carry.  Coles’ 6.8 YPC is the nation’s 32nd-most.
What Midshipmen strengths could pose as a potential threat to the Knights?
Navy sophomore quarterback Xavier Arline has proven to be a rushing threat against opposing defenses.  
Through three games, the sophomore QB has recorded a team-high 171 rushing yards. Arline also leads the team with his 109 passing yards.
Navy’s second-leading rusher, senior fullback James Harris II, also has the potential to serve as a rushing threat to the Knights on Saturday. Harris has rushed for 144 yards on 30 total attempts, averaging 4.8 yards per carry.
The game is set to kickoff at 3:30 p.m. with the Knights being favored by 16.5 points, according to ESPN.



