UCF announced its first-ever Spring Splash as part of its second Homecoming Week, where groups of four students will have physically distant pods with other COVID-19 precautions in place.
To avoid crowding, UCF said the groups will be splashed by water guns, rather than rushing into the Reflecting Pond.
The university tradition will be held in two sessions on Feb. 26 — the first occurring at 11 a.m. with check-in at 10:30 a.m and the second at 1:15 p.m. with check-in at 12:45 p.m.
Traditionally, the event is hosted on the Friday prior to the Homecoming football game. The cancelation of in-person celebrations led to a virtual adaptation of Spirit Splash last semester. 
Many of the aspects of the pep rally are being implemented to allow for students to show their school spirit, while still upholding COVID-19 safety measures, the university said. 
Instead of charging into the pond for a chance to catch an infamous lucky duck, those who attend will be given their own rubber duck to take home. 
UCF President Alexander Cartwright, Student Government leaders, UCF Athletics representatives, and KnightMoves dancers are expected to be present at the college tradition. 
Students must RSVP through KnightConnect before attending the event. 
UCF said it will allow a maximum of 650 students at each session, and students must bring their UCF ID in order to check-in for the event. Students must RSVP through KnightConnect and sign up for one of the two sessions.
Spring Splash is one event during UCF’s Spring 2021 Homecoming Week, which will take place from Feb. 22 to Feb. 26. 
Here’s what else is happening during the second homecoming week-long celebration:
Feb. 22 — “Hang out with your Knight Ohana and watch Disney’s Lilo and Stitch on the Mall.”
Feb. 23 — “Comedy Knight will feature two great acts. Check back for more details.”
Feb. 24 — “Weeks before the show, students auditioned virtually by submitting a one-minute video to earn a chance to compete. See who made the cut and will take top honors…”
Feb. 25 — “Check back for details about the artist who will be performing for a crowd of about 600 students during the outdoor concert that will have physical distancing in place.”
Feb. 26 — “In celebration of Black History Month, the Office of Student Involvement and the Multicultural Student Center is hosting a performance by Zuzu African Acrobats, a local group that showcases traditional Kenyan acrobatic skills.”
More details on Spring Splash 2021 can be found on UCF Today’s website.



UCF students will be able to enjoy an evening at Universal Studios and Islands of Adventure with free park admission, courtesy of the UCF Student Government. 
UCF SG Director of Student Affairs Rodney Graham said students will be able to take advantage of both Islands of Adventure and Universal Studios this year. 
Universal Knights is an annual event open to all students but was canceled last year due to COVID-19 safety concerns. 
The event will be on April 12, and UCF SG said more information will be available for ticket pick up soon. 
Graham said the event will be in compliance with the university’s COVID-19 guidelines. 
This is a developing story. Check back with Knight News for updates. 



