After weeks of a vacancy in UCF’s director of athletics position, Arkansas State’s Terry Mohajir is likely to fill the role, per numerous reports.
In January, former athletics director Danny White left as he abruptly left to become the new leader of Tennessee Athletics in January and named former UCF head coach Josh Heupel the new Vols head coach days later. 
Sources: The UCF search is focused on Arkansas State AD Terry Mohajir. The deal isn't completed, but discussions are progressing. Expect an announcement in the next 24 hours.
Mohajir was named Arkansas State’s athletics director in 2012 in the school states he has brought its program to new heights.  
Multiple sources told Yahoo Sports on Monday that UCF has targeted the veteran Arkansas State athletic director to be its next athletic director — Yahoo Sports reports a deal is expected to be completed and announced in the next 24 hours.
Bruce Feldman of FOX Sports now joining Pete Thamel of Yahoo and @AStateNation in reporting that #AState AD Terry Mohajir will be hired by UCF.
Under Mohajir’s leadership, A-State has claimed a total of 25 conference championships including the football team winning four Sun Belt titles with three different head coaches; Gus Malzahn, Bryan Harsin, and Blake Anderson. 
The school’s athletics department states he has helped Arkansas’ image with fans and recruits significantly and made significant improvements to the facilities.
“Mohajir as well has prided himself in engaging with the fan base and making it a point that the fan experience is very important,” his athletics bio reads. 
A-State was committed to Title IX and gender-equity initiatives, alongside working with improving coaching staff sizes and their salaries, the athletics page states.  
“Mohajir has responded well with coaching transitions,” A-State Athletics states. “Carrying out one of his first major acts as athletics director, he appointed an interim head football coach and kept the entire assistant coaching staff in place for the 2013 GoDaddy.com Bowl.”
Mohajir’s bio states he played for Arkansas State as starting safety from 1990-1991 and graduated with a major in sports management and a minor in marketing. After graduating, he later became an assistant head coach to the Kansas Jayhawks before heading to the Red Wolves’ to become their AD in 2012, his bio reads. 
Knight News has requested public records pertaining to this search, but the university yet to produce any by the time of publication.
Check back with Knight News for updates on this developing story. 



