UCF Men’s Basketball Head Coach Johnny Dawkins announced that the 2022-23 non-conference schedule is now set with 12 non-conference games that include eight home games at the Addition Financial Arena. 
our non-conference schedule is set‼️ pic.twitter.com/m5SYyk3LjZ
The Knight’s Schedule is as follows: 
Monday Nov. 7: UNC Asheville at Addition Financial Arena 
Friday Nov. 11: Florida State at Addition Financial Arena 
Baha Mar Hoops Bahamas Championship Nov. 18-20 
Friday Nov. 18: Oklahoma State 
Sunday Nov. 20: DePaul or Santa Clara  
*Baha Mar games to be broadcast on CBS Sports Network 
Wednesday Nov. 23: Evansville 
Sunday Nov. 27: Miami Hurricanes at Addition Financial Arena 
Sunday Dec. 4: Samford at Addition Financial Arena 
Sunday Dec. 11: Tarleton State at Addition Financial Arena 
Wednesday Dec. 14: Ole Miss 
28th Annual AutoNation Orange Bowl Basketball Classic at FLA Live Arena in Sunrise, Florida 
Saturday Dec. 17: Missouri at FLA Live Arena 
Wednesday Dec. 21: Stetson at Addition Financial Arena 
While the Knight’s American Athletic Conference schedule has yet to be released, conference play will begin Dec. 27-29 with league play lasting till Sunday March 5, 2023. 
The 2023 American Athletic Conference Championship will be held at the Dickies Arena in Fort Worth, Texas for the third year in a row. Championship play will be from March 9-12. 



Shaquem Griffin, who played with twin brother Shaquill during his time with UCF, announced he is retiring from the NFL after 4 seasons. 
Thank you to the people who helped me achieve this dream, but it’s time to move on from the game of football.   @PlayersTribune https://t.co/dzPWRCvpZl
Griffin, who had his left hand amputated at the age of 4 played for the Knights from 2013-2017 where he helped lead UCF to a “National Championship” win over the Auburn Tigers in the Peach Bowl during his final season with the team. 
Griffin was then drafted in the fifth round by the Seattle Seahawks in 2018 and played with the team through the 2020 season and returned to the sunshine state where he competed on the practice squad team for the Miami Dolphins in 2021. 
Griffin made the announcement Wednesday in a Players’ Tribune article that he said he believes that is the right time to walk away from the game of football professionally. 
“The time has come for me to retire from professional football,” Griffin said. “It’s time for me to execute my Plan A.” 
Griffin said he believes “Plan A” is using his education he received at UCF to “do something that would make a positive impact in the world.” Griffin said he is interested in helping serve and support underprivileged communities throughout the country. 
Griffin makes this decision after missing the opportunity to play with his brother Shaquill who plays for the Jacksonville Jaguars. Shaquill was selected in 2017 by Seattle and both brothers played together with the Seahawks until 2020.
UCF legend ➡️ NFL legendProud of you @Shaquemgriffin ✊ https://t.co/9HpIaIuDn3
“All this traveling around, working out for teams, trying to catch on somewhere, trying to hang on — it wasn’t what I wanted,” Griffin said. “Football had already given me so much, and the only thing I still really wanted from the game was to play with my brother again. So I told my agent, Buddy Baker, thank you for grinding and bringing me these opportunities. But unless it’s Jacksonville, I’m good.” 
During his time at UCF he accumulated 17 sacks, 30 tackles for a loss and was named the 2018 Peach Bowl Defensive MVP. 



Boardwalk Bowl’s College Knights Kick-Off Party is back, and UCF students will be able to start the new school year right with free bowling, live music and much more this Thursday. 
As of Boardwalk Bowl’s month-long celebration for its 20-year anniversary, College Knights will return to kick-off the new school year Thursday Aug. 25 starting at 9 p.m. 
Students can head over to Brooklyn Bar South (located at 10749 East Colonial Dr.) where there will be music from a live DJ, raffles and giveaways, food and drink specials throughout the night and free bowling for students with a valid college ID. 
The Party won’t stop this Thursday though as students can stop by Boardwalk bowl throughout the semester with every Thursday for Thursday Knights. Students will be able to enjoy $3 games, drafts and shoes on Thursdays from 9 p.m. to close.  



