Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis says he will not follow the White House’s lead in declaring a state of emergency over the Monkeypox virus as cases rise to 985 people.  
BREAKING: The state of Florida adds 244 new monkeypox cases in the last 24 hours, the biggest daily increase and an unusual one since the outbreak started.
The Florida Department of Health recorded 985 people being infected with virus as of Tuesday, jumping up nearly double from 525 reported infections this time last week. The health agency has now ordered 72,000 vaccine doses from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and will deliver installments through October. 
Gov. DeSantis said that he does not believe that a state of emergency over the virus is necessary over its “low risk” and warns that other states will abuse their emergency powers to restrict individual freedoms much like the outbreak of COVID-19. 
“You see some of these states declaring states of emergency, they’re going to abuse those emergency powers to restrict your freedom. I guarantee you that’s what will happen. We saw it so much with COVID,” DeSantis said. 
RON DESANTIS ON MONKEYPOX: “Do not listen to their nonsense. I am so sick of politicians, and we saw this with COVID, trying to sow fear into the population." pic.twitter.com/TOHtorjxLh
Department of Health Spokesman Jeremy Redfern said that will he considers Monkeypox “low risk” he predicts more of the general public will contract the virus in the coming months. 
“That being said, due to the lack of monkeypox vaccines from the federal government, we are expecting infections to increase,” Redfern said. “Monkeypox is proving to be extremely painful for those infected, but the fatality rate remains at zero in the US.” 



Universal Orlando CityWalk has now implemented a curfew for guests under the age of 18 on weekends after a fight broke out between several minors last month. 
JUST IN | Universal Orlando has now implemented a weekend curfew for guests under the age of 18 at CityWalk. https://t.co/8SVuX9Qqzj
According to an update via the Universal Orlando website, all guests under the age of 18 will be to leave CityWalk at 9 p.m. unless they are accompanied by a parent/guardian or watching a movie at Universal Cinemark 
This update comes after a Universal Orlando parking garage was evacuated last month when a fight broke out between “several juveniles” according to police. 
The commotion caused guests to believe that there was an active shooter on Universal Orlando property where several officers arrived at the scene to retrain and break up multiple fights between the minors involved. 
The company has not issued a statement on if this curfew will remain in place when the popular seasonal Halloween event, Halloween Horror Nights begins on Sept. 2. 
Universal Orlando’s response on their Twitter account to an update to this new policy at the start of the event was brief saying, “Stay Tuned”. 



The UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management for a third year in a row has now been ranked the No.1 hospitality program in the nation and top five in the world. 
UCF was ranked as the premiere hospitality and tourism program in the nation by the ShanghaiRanking Global Ranking of Academic Subjects 2022 for its third consecutive year. The ShanghaiRankings ranks 500 of the world’s top universities for various programs. UCF now ranks fourth in the world for their Hospitality and Tourism program. 
Youcheng Wang, Dean of the UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management said she is proud of the college’s top ranking and attributes it to their HOSPITALITY+ approach. 
“Our top ranking may be attributed to the HOSPITALITY+ approach of comprehensive curriculum offerings and our dedication to delivering impactful research published in top academic journals,” Wang said. “We are extremely proud of our 2022 ShanghaiRanking. Our college is among the best worldwide, and with new degree programs and faculty producing cutting edge research we continue to be a top choice for higher education both domestically and among our international student body and scholars.” 
 The rankings are based on five indicators including the volume, quality and influence of research published, international collaboration and academic awards. The Chronicle of Higher Education said they consider the ShanghaiRanking to be the most influential ranking among world-renowned universities. 



