Gasparilla Music Festival returned to Tampa, Florida this past weekend, and its eclectic lineup included both familiar acts and up-and-coming bands that are sure to be the next big thing.
After the coronavirus pandemic postponed last year’s GMF to early October, fans only had to wait 5 short months before the 2022 iteration of the festival commenced. On February 25th to 27th, Gasparilla Music Festival took over the grounds of Curtis Hixon park in downtown Tampa and wowed attendees with headlining acts Black Pumas, The Revivalists, and Trombone Shorty & Orleans Ave.
However, some of the best performances of the festival
happened long before the sun went down and the headliners have their time to
shine. Gasparilla Music Festival is a truly genre-less event, and they have
artists performing electronic music, rock, funk, and much more throughout the
day. The standout element of GMF is certainly their programming. This is a
festival where you could walk up to any stage at any point in the day and
possibly find your new favorite artist.
One such new band is MAK, a four piece indie rock group right from Tampa, Florida. “This is our first official festival and [Gasparilla Music Festival] has been more than welcoming,” says Aidan Makrianes, bassist for the group. Bands like MAK had a lot of exposure to gain from being at a festival like this, and they were more than thankful. Ian Makrianes, lead singer and guitarist, said: “We appreciate everyone who is willing to come out and support”.
Notably, this festival takes place on the heels of coronavirus lockdowns and a long while without live music. Artists at GMF this weekend were sure to give thanks to all the audience members for supporting live music, and the fans responded with an overabundance of dance moves, cheering, and an overall carefree atmosphere. It’s no surprise that as much as these bands missed performing, their fans missed seeing them live and in-person, because there’s no studio recording in the world that could compare to the energy of live music.
Other highlights from the festival include The Aces, an
all-female pop-rock group with a very commanding stage presence, and Peach Tree
Rascals, a group of singer/rappers and instrumentalists who played only their 10th
show this weekend at GMF. I would keep an eye out for them. The festival also had
performances by 90’s hip-hop group Arrested Development, a phenomenally high
energy performance from the alternative band Grouplove, and a soulful set from
the wonderful Mavis Staples.
No matter what you’re into, you’re bound to find some crowd
pleasers and hidden gems alike at the Gasparilla Music Festival, and after
months without live music, I think this is just the event that Central Florida needs.



