The UCF men’s basketball team announced they will compete in the 28th annual AutoNation Orange Bowl Basketball Classic on December 17, 2022, where they will take on the Missouri Tigers. 
The Knights will travel down to the FLA Live Arena in Sunrise, Florida where they will be part of a doubleheader that will include in-state powerhouse Florida State Seminoles vs St. Johns.  
This will mark the second appearance for the Knights in the Orange Bowl Classic as they also competed in 2010 where they defeated the Miami Hurricanes 84-78. 
The Orange Bowl Classic will serve as Holiday destination event for families and friends to enjoy festivities and entertainment throughout the event during the day. More details will be announced later via the classic’s social media accounts, @OrangeBowl.  
UCF fans wanting to travel south to Broward County this holiday season to cheer on their Knights, can purchase tickets at orangebowl.org/basketball or by calling the Orange Bowl ticket box office at (305) 341-4701. 



Actor and former WWE superstar Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson is bringing his pro football league to the City Beautiful with a new franchise team set to start in 2023. 
Now calling these cities, HOME. #XFL2023 pic.twitter.com/aZj4cve5xK
League Officials announced that eight cities will host XFL teams including Arlington, Texas, San Antonio, Texas, Houston, Texas, Las Vegas, Nevada, Seattle, Washington, St. Louis, Missouri, Washington, D.C. and Orlando, Florida.  
The Orlando Franchise will be coached by former NFL cornerback and Ole Miss coach Terrell Buckley. 
It’s official. I’m excited to announce that I am the head coach of Orlando’s brand new XFL Franchise. This city is known for making dreams come true and I can’t wait to help add to that tradition. Let’s go!@XFL2023 pic.twitter.com/2VHnRLbUv6
Buckley said in a post on his Twitter that he was excited to bring back a pro football franchise to Orlando. 
“It’s official. I’m excited to announce that I am the head coach of Orlando’s brand new XFL Franchise,” Buckley said. “This city is known for making dreams come true and I can’t wait to help add to that tradition. Let’s go!” 
This is the first time Orlando has had a pro football franchise in central Florida. In 2001, the XFL, run by former WWE CEO Vince McMahon had the Orlando Rage as a team for a single season before going out of business 
The League run by McMahon came back once again in 2020 before going out of business yet again due to the financial difficulties of the Covid-19 Pandemic. Florida’s lone team was the Tampa Bay Vipers. 
Dwyane Johnson, also known as the “The Rock” teamed up with his business partner Dany Garica and Redbird Capital to buy the League when it went into bankruptcy court in fall 2020 for $15 Million dollars. 
Garcia said she was excited about the announcement of selecting Orlando as a future franchise city as it points to another step forward for future rival league to the NFL. 
“We’ve had a clear vision for the XFL, the values to instill, the diversity of our leaders, the innovation of the game and how we want to deeply engage with our communities so they can help bring this vision to life. Today, our league takes another step closer to 2023 kickoff as we officially announce where our teams will play,” said Garcia. “What brings a league to life is the passion of the fandom behind it. In each of these cities we will co-create with our fans and build these teams from the ground up so that they represent the unique fabric of our communities. We welcome all football fans to join us as we get ready for kickoff in February.” 
The League is set for kickoff on February 18, 2023. 



UCF Football’s junior cornerback Davonte Brown was announced as being added to the 2022 Paycom Jim Thorpe Award Watchlist by the Oklahoma Sports Hall of Fame and the Jim Thorpe Association. 
Brown joins 34 other players across the nation who will be considered for the Jim Thorpe award which is given to the best defensive back in college football based on performance on the field, athletic ability and character. The award was established in 1986. 
In 2021, Brown collected 38 tackles for the Knights and a team-high 13 PBUs and earned the 6’2 cornerback a third-team all-American Athletic Conference pick. Brown is also a preseason Athlon and Lindy’s first-team all-AAC selection for the 2022 season. 
The Jim Thorpe watchlist will include up to 50 defensive backs across the nation and will be narrowed down to 15 semifinalists in October. Out of these semifinalists, three will be chosen by a panel of 250 media and former coaches and players that will attend the Paycom Jim Thorpe Award banquet in Oklahoma City on February 7, 2023. 



