Twitter CEO Elon Musk has suspended a Twitter account owned by a UCF Sophomore responsible for tracking Elon Musk’s private jet has been suspended along with his personal account and has threatened to take legal action against the current Knight. 
Jack Sweeney, a UCF Sophomore who runs @ElonJet, a Twitter account that tracked the SpaceX CEO’s personal jet has been permanently suspended Wednesday. 
Musk posted on his personal Twitter account, “Legal action is being taken against Sweeney & organizations who supported harm to my family.” 
Last night, car carrying lil X in LA was followed by crazy stalker (thinking it was me), who later blocked car from moving & climbed onto hood.Legal action is being taken against Sweeney & organizations who supported harm to my family.
In an interview given to News 6 Sweeney said in his appeal to have his account reinstated, that he believed he didn’t do anything wrong and hoped to work something out with the new Twitter owner. 
“I said, ‘You know, I don’t believe I violated any terms,’ but I mean in the conditions I’m in, I don’t think they’re really going to do anything,” Sweeney said. “I would just like to work it out in a better way for both of us so it doesn’t look as bad for him and I end up happier than with a banned account. I think we can come to better terms.” 
Sweeney’s account was reinstated for a short time Wednesday night but was later suspended again. 
In an interview with Insider Thursday, Sweeney said he wasn’t ‘really concerned’ with the tweet Musk sent threatening legal action. 
“I’m not really concerned because a tweet is just a tweet, you know?” Sweeney said. “From what I see, there isn’t much ground for him to stand on and that’s the opinion of a lot of people.”  
Any account doxxing real-time location info of anyone will be suspended, as it is a physical safety violation. This includes posting links to sites with real-time location info.Posting locations someone traveled to on a slightly delayed basis isn’t a safety problem, so is ok.
Before Musk’s recent $44 billion acquisition of Twitter, the Tesla CEO offered Sweeney $5,000 to take down the account. When Sweeney countered with the option of $50,000 or a brand-new Tesla vehicle, Musk declined. 
With a net worth around $164 billion, Musk may try to intimidate Sweeney in a legal battle that may prove costly for the young UCF student if the Twitter CEO follows through on his threat. 



