SeaWorld Orlando’s premier Summer themed event is back! Electric Ocean returns on select dates from May 27 to Sept. 5 including Memorial Day and Labor Day. 
Get ready to immerse yourself in exotic worlds of vibrant light and music and stay out late to experience all that SeaWorld Orlando has to offer in a whole new way. On select dates, SeaWorld Orlando will transform into a vibrant summer dance party with glowing Sea creatures, world-class DJs pack the park within a family friendly atmosphere.  
Dates for the Event are as follows: 
Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays: May 27 – June 12  
Memorial Day: Monday, May 30 Daily: June 17 – Aug. 7  
Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays: Aug. 12 – Sept. 4 Labor Day: Monday, Sept. 5 
What’s New: 
Ignite 360:  
Electric Ocean will provide a new “Fireworks and Nighttime Spectacular” show to conclude each night thirty minutes to close called “Ignite 360”.  Each night the sky will be illuminated with fireworks, lasers, flames, and a fountain show will take place in SeaWorld’s large central lake with guests will be able to view from all around the park. Seating will be located in 3 different locations, Orca Encounter Pathway, The Waterfront, Bayside Stadium. 
Day to Night Entertainment: 
Electric Ocean is an all-day event, which means different exclusive entertainment from park open till park close. Here are the five different entertainment events offered. 
Elmo and his friends save the day by forming their own rock ‘n’ roll band after their favorite band cancels its concert appearance! Elmo, Zoe, Cookie Monster, Abby Cadabby, Bert, and Ernie go through the process of auditioning and rehearsals to transform into The Rockin’ Elmo Band. Awesome music, fun dancing, and audience participation are all included in this gnarly journey to put on the greatest rock concert ever! Performances are at Nautilus Theater 
SeaWorld’s commitment to animal care and rescue doesn’t stop when the sun goes down. Rescue Tails: Night Vision is a fun and educational presentation where you will meet some of our amazing nocturnal exotic animals. 
On Electric Ocean evenings The Waterfront transforms early into a party beneath the waves. Our host, dancers, and stilt walkers get the excitement started with a dance party fit for all ages. 
The party amps up after dark at Bayside Stadium, where a DJ will be mixing dance music all evening leading up to the start of our fireworks finale. Enjoy plenty of space to spread out and dance while enjoying the entertainment. That includes dancers and high-energy atmospheric acts to get the party going! 
Rescue Tails is an educational presentation that teaches you about SeaWorld’s commitment to animal care and rescue. You’ll meet many incredible rescued animals, such as birds of prey, primates, and reptiles, and learn about their unique stories! 
Summer Flavors at Electric Ocean: 
Much light “SeaWorld’s Christmas Celebration”, the park will be offering exclusive savory food and drinks items only for their Electric Ocean event. There will be seven food tent locations located offering these exclusive treats unique to that designated area for a limited time. 
Sip and savor special summer flavors throughout SeaWorld’s Electric Ocean. Taste savory summer classics alongside limited-time offering such as beignets, pinchos, and empanadas. Quench your thirst with international and craft brews or one of our refreshing coaster cocktails. Watch fireworks like a VIP at our Ignite 360 Private Fireworks Viewing Happy Hour or from nearly 400 feet in the air with champagne and chocolates from our Sky Tower. 
Rides such as Manta, Mako, Journey to Atlantis and the New Ice Breaker coaster that opened earlier this year will be available to guests throughout the entirety of the event. 
Electric Ocean Opens May 27 and will be open from 9 am to 10 pm. 
Tickets can be bought for this specialty event on the SeaWorld Website. 



Students may have a new favorite hangout spot in the Orlando area, as Tiger Woods’ new miniature golf course facility, PopStroke opens in Waterford Lakes in June. 
The new golf course themed complex will have two 18-hole putting courses for students and guests to enjoy that will not be your average mini golf experience as it will have the look of a “traditional” golf course made with synthetic turfs, that incorporate fairways, bunkers and rough. Each course is designed by the 15-time major champion Tiger woods and his TGR Design team. 
The Sarasota @PopstrokeGolf location is now open! Here is a look at PopStroke’s largest property yet, and the two new putting courses I designed with my @tgrdesignbytw team. Next up will be PopStroke Orlando, grand opening details coming soon. pic.twitter.com/TlkszXZwyn
Woods said he believes the be a great place for families to come together and make memories. 
“Some of my happiest memories are spending time with my pops on the golf course having putting contests,” Woods said. “I’m looking forward to others enjoying time with their kids at PopStroke.” 
Popstroke will include a Full Service Restaurant with LED TVs, a Jumbotron, outdoor gaming and even a playground for younger guests to enjoy. 
Guests will not be required to put reservations in to play as it will be first come and first serve with attendees being able to place orders for their favorite beer, wine and cocktails through the PopStroke Mobile App and have their order delivered to them on the course as they play. Attendees will have their choice of 24 different flavors of ice cream as well as signature milkshakes to conclude their visit. 
Prices for PopStroke play are as follows: 
PopStroke will hold “Summer Series events” for guests of all ages to enjoy: 
MOVIE NIGHT – EVERY OTHER TUESDAY 
KIDS NIGHT – EVERY OTHER WEDNESDAY 
KARAOKE NIGHTS – EVERY SUNDAY 
Stay tuned to KnightNews.com for more information about this new golf-themed attraction when it opens next month. 



The weather is heating up and the deals are rolling out this Memorial Day weekend! 
Here is a list of fun Memorial Day activities students may want to take advantage of this holiday weekend in the Central Florida area… 
SeaWorld Orlando 
Discovery Cove 
Busch Gardens 
ICON Park- Military Memorial Day sales 
SGA Ticket Center 
Although deals can always be found at the SGA Ticket Center, here are a few deals you might want to grab before they go away…  
Written by Jessica Tucciarone.



