Three UCF football alumni made appearances in the Divisional Round of the 2021-22 NFL Playoffs.  One former Knight had the game of his life.
WR Breshad Perriman, DB Mike Hughes, and WR Gabriel Davis, were all granted the opportunity of performing in the second round of the playoffs.
Good luck to our guys suiting up in round ✌️ of the #NFLPlayoffs pic.twitter.com/K8dZbErTGt
Let’s take a look at how they performed.
After a quiet one-catch, five-yard outing in last week’s win over the Philadelphia Eagles, Perriman did not get the opportunity to suit up in the Buccaneers’ 30-27 loss vs. the Los Angeles Rams due to injury.
Perriman finished the 2021-22 season with 167 yards on 11 receptions.
Hughes recorded two total tackles (one solo tackle) in the Chiefs’ 42-36 overtime win over the Buffalo Bills.
Last week, I mentioned how Hughes had the misfortune of getting “Mossed” by Pittsburgh Steelers’ WR James Washington.
The last touchdown pass from Ben Roethlisberger of his long career went to James Washington #Steelers #NFL pic.twitter.com/wy1tg6tJCd
This week, Hughes had another unfortunate play.  This time, it was against former UCF teammate Gabe Davis.
Trying to contain his former teammate on 4th and 13 with the game on the line, Hughes fell (literally) for Davis’ crisp rocker-step, leaving him wide open for the touchdown, which gave Buffalo a 29-26 lead with 1:54 remaining in the game.
Gabriel Davis juked Mike Hughes out of his shoes pic.twitter.com/CwG6Klo3ow
And now, we’ve got the best for last.
In the most important game of his career, Gabe Davis put up the performance of a lifetime.
In Buffalo’s 42-36 loss, Davis put up one of the greatest stat lines by a wide receiver in football history.
The Orlando native caught eight passes for 201 yards and four touchdowns.
Davis became the first player in NFL history to catch four touchdown passes in a playoff game.
if you don't know, now you know @DavisGB1 ⚔️ #BuiltByUCF pic.twitter.com/QIy1EYpYcQ
Two of those touchdowns came in vital moments of the game.
One of them came on a 4th and 13 where Buffalo trailed the Chiefs 21-26 with just two minutes remaining.
This was the play where Davis burned his former teammate with a rocker step en route to his third touchdown of the game.
Davis’ last touchdown contained even more significance.
Down 33-29, Bills’ QB Josh Allen found Davis for the 19-yard touchdown to go ahead 36-33 with just 13 seconds remaining in the game.
Stop us if you've heard this one before…JOSH ALLEN TO GABE DAVIS FOR THE TOUCHDOWN!📺: @NFLonCBS pic.twitter.com/KaJTQ7CAJl
This would be the play that put Davis in the record books.
The Chiefs, however, marched down the field and tied the game up with a field goal as time expired.
After this, Davis never got a chance to make more of an impact on the game, as Kansas City scored on the first possession of overtime.
Davis finished the season ranking fifth on the team with 549 reception yards and ranking third with six reception touchdowns.



