While four Haunted Houses have been officially announced for Halloween Horror Nights 31, a Leaked Speculation Map might have revealed the remaining houses, scare zones and shows for this year’s event. 
 Horror Night Nightmares, a publication focused on Halloween Horror Nights Orlando and everything related to Halloween in the Central Florida area released a Speculation Map based on leaks for the the entire lineup of Halloween Horror Nights 31: 
The Following six out of the total 10 haunted houses will all be Horror Night “Original” concept houses that will not be based on previous intellectual properties such as Halloween or The Weeknd: After Hours Nightmare.  
Nightmares also revealed all five scare zones for the event that will not include any social distancing or plexiglass like HHN 30. Here is the list: 
Two Shows will round out the event will be the return of Nightmare Fuel at the old Fear Factor stage next to Men in Black: Alien Attack that debuted at the HHN 30 event and the return of Marathon of Mayhem in the studio lagoon of the park that started at HHN 29 in 2019. 
A post earlier this week by @GravesGhoul on twitter also seemed to confirm this lineup after leaking a shirt made for HHN 30 that had all the “Original” concept houses on the back of it. 
I’m sorry I don’t believe this… and if it is true someone’s gonna be suffering some consequences. #fake #hhn #leak #hhn31 @UniversalORL @HorrorNightsORL pic.twitter.com/htjO6LERS5
While this is all not confirmed by Universal Orlando or Halloween Horror Nights officially, it looks like the leaks shown are pretty much accurate, considering the publication has predicted all four houses released this year for the annual Halloween event in Orlando. Fans will sure to be chomping at the bit for a confirmation in the coming days. 
Halloween Horror Nights 31 runs from Sept. 2 –Oct. 31 on select dates. Tickets can be purchased here. 



The UCF Football team landed its seventh commitment of the Knights’ 2023 recruiting class adding the No. 1 ranked Kicker/Punter in the nation Grant Reddick from Boone High school. 
The five-star, 5-10 local Senior from Boone High School, will travel less than 30 minutes away to play in a soon to be Big 12 powerhouse football as Reddick Committed to the Knights Wednesday afternoon for the 2023 season. 
Kohl’s Professional Camps ranked the Boone Senior as the No. 1 Kicker/Punter in the nation after an impressive showing at the Southern Showcase earlier this year in May.  
“Reddick’s most recent camp was the Southern Showcase in May of 2022,” Kohls said in a statement.  “He again hit the cleanest field goals in drill work and won the field goal competition at the camp with close to 300 campers. Reddick is a special player on field goals. He can hit consistently from 60 yards on in and with a tailwind hit from 65 yards away. Reddick’s kickoffs are top 15 in the 2023 class. He should be highly sought after in the 2023 class. This past winter Reddick scored 19 points on field goals and had a kickoff score of 118. Reddick is currently the best ball-striker in his class and has the talent to be a D1 kicker!” 
Reddick has been a high priority for the Knights as the team offered a full scholarship after the kicker received an offer from Air force to play college football. 
Reddick joins six other future Knights that have committed to the UCF for 2023 season with four-star Defensive tackle John Walker and cornerback Braeden Marshall expected to commit to the program later this week. 



