After weeks of anticipation the time has come, Halloween Horror Nights released the full line up of haunted houses, scare zone and shows for this year’s event along with a preview video including UCF graduate Phillip Wright. 
Halloween Horror Nights 31 will take place at Universal Studios Florida featuring 10 Haunted Houses, 5 bone chilling scare zones and 2 heart pounding live shows.  
The Halloween themed event previously announced popular Franchise based properties to headline this year’s event such as Universal Monsters: Legends Collide, John Carpenter’s 1978 Halloween, The Horror of Blumhouse: Featuring Freaky and The Black Phone and The Weeknd: After Hours Nightmare. 
Horror Nights unveiled that there will be 6 brand new original Houses that will complete the 2022 lineup in a preview video below featuring UCF Broadcast Journalism graduate Phillip Wright. 
Never Go Alone.Superfans, screamers, selfie queens and skeptics summon your scream squad to Universal Orlando’s Halloween Horror Nights with 10 haunted houses, 5 scare zones, 2 live shows, and exciting attractions. FULL Haunted House, Scare Zones and Shows details below. pic.twitter.com/17i2PpY2GM
Wright featured above in a Jack the Clown shirt and red jacket, graduated from UCF in May of this year and previously worked on the school’s talk show The Late Knight Show where he was a co-creator with UCF Senior Carla Mangual. 
During his time, Wright wore many hats for the student-run production seeing the Journalism Major co-host, act, lead meetings for creative and write for the entertainment production whose first season spanned six episodes. 
This year’s original themed houses include: Enter an unsettling 1920s speakeasy only to discover that they are the main ingredient of witch’s brew in Spirits of the Coven. 
Face a putrid, skin-crawling infestation of spiders, roaches, flies, bees and more in Bugs: Eaten Alive 
Escape or become prey to a no-longer mythical, fanged creature in Fiesta de Chupacabras 
Attempt to survive visiting hours for horrifying monsters serving time in Hellblock Horror 
Endure a petrifying winter thunderstorm in a seaside village ruled by an undead fisherman in Dead Man’s Pier: Winter’s Wake 
Encounter bloodthirsty mutants living in a post-apocalyptic subway system in Descendants of Destruction 
HHN 31 will also feature 5 all-new scare zones including: 
There will also be two new live shows featured at this year’s event including: 
Halloween Horror Nights 31 will run on select dates from Sept.2 through Oct. 31. Single and multi-night Frequent fear pass options can be purchased on their website. 



