Universal Orlando third planned them park, Epic Universe is rumored to be planning an expansion area based off J.R.R. Token’s Lord of the Rings. 
Universal’s Epic Universe which is scheduled to open by summer of 2025 is slated to have 5 different themed lands based on several popular IPs. 
According to a Report by ScreamScape, Universal is rumored to be planning a Middle Earth land based on Lord of the Rings in one of the first expansions to Epic Universe once it opens. 
“Epic Universe will be to bring the world of J.R.R. Tolkien’s Middle Earth to the park. That is really all I’ve heard at this point, and we don’t have a clue if this will be inspired more from the Peter Jackson series of films (“The Hobbit” / “Lord of the Rings”) made for W.B./New Line Cinema or if they will take inspiration from the upcoming Amazon Prime series: “The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power”.” 
This isn’t the first mention of Lord of the Rings coming to a Universal Orlando Park. A guest survey from a few years back taken at Universal Orlando including a mention of a possible addition of Lord of the Rings to the parks and how guests would feel about it. The survey reads as follows: 
“Imagine if you will a world unlike any you’ve ever visited before: it’s Middle Earth, the ancient and beautiful land forged by J.R.R. Tolkien as the backdrop for his two most well known creations, Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit. Walk as a human among dwarves, elves, orcs and hobbits-all faithfully recreated and portrayed in the spirit of the original characters as they appeared in both the books and the movies. In this land you’ll experience one-of-a-kind rides and attractions that bring to life some of the most memorable experiences of Tolkien’s world including Bilbo’s hobbit hole, the fortress at Isengard (before it was destroyed) and even the dark world of Mordor, including the terrifying volcanic Mount Doom.“ 
For now, fans of Tolkien’s fantastical world will still have to wait a few years before Universal Orlando’s much anticipated third theme park, Epic Universe opens to the public in 2025. 



Wawa, the grab and go convenience store/gas station is giving free coffee and fountain drinks to guests all day on July 18 to celebrate 10 years of operation in Florida. 
Each Hot Coffee and Fountain Drink will be able to be redeemed at any size at all of its Florida locations. 
The Pennsylvania-based retailer opened its location in Florida in Orlando across the street from SeaWorld on July 18, 2012. Wawa will open it’s 250th location in Florida by the end of this year. 
Wawa President and CEO Chris Gheysens said he believed it was important to give back to the Florida communities that supported his business for the past 10 years.  
“Though it’s been 10 years since Wawa first opened its doors in the Sunshine State, it feels like we’ve been here for even longer as we’ve been fortunate to develop so many lasting relationships and meaningful connections over the past decade,” said Wawa President and CEO Chris Gheysens. “We’re thrilled to offer all Florida customers free coffee on July 18 and celebrate that with the launch of the Florida 10th Anniversary Fund to support all the nonprofit organizations that give back to our communities in countless ways, every day. Cheers to 10 years in the Sunshine State and to many more decades of growth and fulfilling lives in Florida.” 
The Florida 10th Anniversary Fund will have a total of $100,000 dollars spread across 1,000 local nonprofits in the area with grant amounts varying between $1,000 and $2,500. 
Deadline to apply for eligible nonprofits is on its website by Aug. 31. 



