Game times and broadcast options are set for what may be UCF’s final War on I4 matchup against in-state rival USF on this year’s Thanksgiving weekend. 
The American Athletic Conference released the schedule for this year’s War on I4 instate rivalry and for the first time in 6 years, it will not take place on Black Friday.  
This year’s matchup with the Bulls will be held at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa on Saturday Nov. 26 and will kickoff at either 7 or 7:30 p.m. The game will be broadcast on either ESPN2 or ESPNU and will be determined after all conference games conclude on Nov. 19 according to AAC officials. 
With UCF Moving to the Big 12 conference next year, The UCF and USF athletic programs have not scheduled or made any indication that the in-state rivalry will continue after the 2022 season. 
After losing their first 4 matchups with the Bulls that started in 2005, the Knights now lead the all-time football series 7-6, with the opportunity to pick up their eighth and final victory over USF in just under two weeks. 
For now, the Knights are still in the driver’s seat to win their final AAC Conference Championship and will have to first take on Navy this Saturday in their final regular-season home game of the 2022 campaign.  
The game will kickoff at 11 a.m. and will be broadcast on ESPN2. 



After picking up their second win over a top 25 team this season defeating Tulane 38-31 on the road, the Knights have moved up 5 spots in the country in the latest Associated Press Top 25 poll rankings. 
The Knights, who already defeated a No.20 ranked Cincinnati team on Homecoming just a couple of weeks ago took down the No. 16 ranked Tulane on the road in Louisiana Saturday after a season high 336 rushing yards which included a program-record by a quarterback in a single game by John Rhys Plumlee rushing for 176 yards on 18 attempts. 
The win marked the first time UCF has defeated a top 25 ranked team on the road since 2013. With the win the Knights have climbed to No. 17 in the country in the latest Associated Press Top 25 rankings released Sunday. 
After handing the Green Wave their first conference loss of the season, the Knights are now in the driver’s seat to control their own destiny by winning out and hosting a conference championship game to pick up their final title in the American Athletic Conference. 
The Knights will host Navy in their annual Senior Day final home this Saturday Nov. 19 at 11 a.m. at FBC Mortgage Stadium. The game will be broadcast on ESPN2. 



