The House of Mouse is about to get a lot more jolly this Holiday season, as Mickey’s Verry Merry Christmas Party returns to Walt Disney World this November for the first time since 2019. 
Holiday wishes come true! Mickey's Very Merry Christmas Party returns select nights Nov 8–Dec 22! Tickets on sale July 7. https://t.co/Mt5SRFbHad pic.twitter.com/1P6P6SfALt
The annual Christmas themed separately ticketed event will return to Magic Kingdom on November 8 and will run on select nights through December 22nd. 
The “Christmas Party” will offer new holiday themed attractions and offerings in honor of Disney World’s 50th anniversary celebration. 
Here is the list of the merriest of offerings for this year’s Mickey’s Very Merry Christmas Party”: 
Tickets and Prices: 
The Holiday Celebration will take place on select nights from 7 p.m. to midnight, but if you purchase an event ticket, you will be able to enter Magic Kingdom as early as 4 p.m. 
Tickets range from $149 to $179 dollars for all guests. If you are an Annual Pass holder or a Disney Vacation Club Member, you will be able to take advantage of a $10 discount on event tickets for select dates. 
The final two nights of the “Christmas Party” will be set at a premium price of $199 plus tax 
Tickets can be bought here.
The event dates are below: 



For the first time since winning the White House in 2020, the 46th President of the United States, Joe Biden will be visiting the City Beautiful on Monday. 
The announcement comes after the President nonchalantly said in a climate speech at a Massachusetts’s power plant that he has “Cancer”. 
“That’s why I and so damn many other people I grew up with have cancer and why for the longest time Delaware had the highest cancer rate in the nation,” Biden said. 
Biden says that his mother using windshield wipers to "get literally the oil slick off the window" is "why I and so damn many other people have cancer." pic.twitter.com/YIoBlZadRJ
While the President chose to use the present verb tense to describe his experience with cancer, The White House walked back Biden’s comments saying that it was in reference to his past experience having “non-melanoma skin cancers” removed prior to his time in office. 
White House Spokesperson Andrew Bates referred to the tweet below by Washington Post columnist Glenn Kessler for the President’s past experience. 
How dumb is this tweet? Check out Biden's medical report. Before he became president, he'd had non-melanoma skin cancers removed. Has no one  at @RNCResearch ever had this common procedure?  https://t.co/TS9VWtKcYC https://t.co/itklkVZIor
President Biden will give an address at the annual conference for the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives at the Rosen Shingle Creek Resort. 
The President will also attend a Democratic National Committee Event in Tampa immediately following his address in Orlando during his tour to the Sunshine State. 
President Biden’s visit to Florida comes a week after VP Kamala Harris attended an Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority conference and discussing the nation’s polarizing topic of reproductive rights with state Democrats at a roundtable conference. 
This will be the first visit for the President since he met with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis in Miami to discuss the ramifications need to be taken in the aftermath of the Surfside Condominium collapse last June that resulted in 98 deaths and over $1 billion dollars in property damage. 



