“We’re trying to change the narrative to recruits we’re not one of the better non-Power Five programs.”
These are the words UCF head coach Gus Malzahn stated after being named the Knights’ head coach last offseason.
He is certainly living up to those words.
According to 247sports and rivals.net, UCF’s 2022 recruit class is the best in program history.
The class ranks No. 52 in the nation and third in the American Athletic Conference, consisting of 15 incoming freshmen and 10 transfers.
The freshman class includes 14 three-star recruits and a four-star.
The best recruiting class in UCF history will be put on display during UCF’s Spring Game, which is set for April 16 at noon at the Bounce House.
Which incoming Knights are most likely to make an immediate impact next season?
The Knights’ freshman class is headlined by four-star cornerback recruit Nikai Martinez.
An Apopka native, Martinez ranked No. 46 in the state of Florida and No. 363 nationally as a recruit.
The former Blue Darter will likely compete for the starting CB2 position against freshman Brandon Adams this offseason.
Don’t be surprised if he even pushes sophomore Davonte Brown for the starting CB1 spot.
With the departures of key receivers Brandon Johnson and Titus Mokiao-Atimalala, incoming transfers Kemore Gamble and Kobe Hudson have major opportunities to contribute to the receiving game next season.
Gamble, who spent his previous five years with the Florida Gators, caught 31 receptions for 414 yards and a team-high four touchdowns last season.
Gamble brings plentiful experience to a UCF tight end room that will be deep going into next season with juniors Alec Holler and Jake Hescock already on the roster.
The addition of Gamble also gives Malzahn the option to implement a double-tight set into his game plan next season.
Hudson, who led Auburn with 44 catches for 580 yards and four touchdowns last season, will likely start at receiver alongside juniors Jaylon Robinson and slot Ryan O’Keefe in 2022.
The Knights’ current WR2 is senior Nate Craig-Myers, who made five starts last season, but caught just five passes.
Moving onto the defensive side of the ball, the Knights landed one of the transfer portal’s most prized gems in former Auburn defensive lineman Lee Hunter.
Hunter, a former top 100 recruit, didn’t get an opportunity to see the field last season.  
That certainly won’t be the case at UCF, as Hunter will almost certainly start immediately – or crack the second rotation at the very least.
The Alabama native makes for a vital addition to an already-loaded Knights’ interior defensive line led by sophomore Josh Celliscar, senior Anthony Montalvo, and junior Cam Goode.
Last but not least, Maryland transfer linebacker Terrence Lewis is guaranteed to make an immediate impact given the departure of junior linebacker Tatum Bethune, who led the Knights in tackles (60) and interceptions (2) last season.
Lewis, who did not play for the Terrapins in 2021, was the nation’s top-rated linebacker for the class of 2021.  In addition, the Opa Locka native ranked as the No. 21 overall player in the country and the No. 5 recruit in the state of Florida.



