UCF announced a new partnership with Universal Creative, the team that develops attractions, shows for Universal Orlando to create specially designed coursework and on-site sessions at the theme parks for students in 2023. 
Big news today! @ucf and Universal Creative have announced a new partnership! The UCF/Universal Creative Lab offers themed experience students a one-of-a-kind, hands-on experience with some of the most creative minds in the industry ➡  https://t.co/KExNpYLVEc
Starting in the Spring semester of 2023 Students will have the opportunity to work outside the traditional classroom and into one of World’s most renowned theme parks, at Universal Orlando Resort. There students will get the chance to interact with engineers, producers, and creative directors with the goal of providing students with an in-depth look at the development and design process.  
Mike Hightower, president of Universal Creative said he is excited about the program being introduced to UCF students as it will help grow and inspire future creators. 
“People love the energy and thrill of experiencing epic stories and exhilarating adventures and Universal is an incredible place to build a career,” Hightower said. “The Creative Lab with UCF gives students immersive, hands-on, real-world experience through instruction from our talented team. This kind of learning is great for UCF students, great for our theme parks and entertainment and great for Universal Creative as we help grow and inspire the next generation of creators.” 
The new UCF/Universal Creative lab will also give students interested in being theme park designers and storytellers the skills and to build the necessary relationships needed entering the workforce with Universal Parks & Resorts as they develop potential prospective talent. 
Under UCF’s themed experience program which includes a Master of Science degree and theatre MFA with a track in the specialty, will give UCF students the firs-hand knowledge to meet the growing demands of the tourism and hospitality needs in Orlando and beyond according to Peter Weishar, founding director of UCF’s themed experience program. 
“Orlando is the international hub of the themed entertainment industry,” said Weishar. “World-leading organizations, like Universal Creative, are right here at our doorstep. We know our students need first-hand knowledge of the cutting-edge innovation and industry best practices to become the next generation of themed entertainment. We are grateful Universal Creative shares that vision.” 
The first UCF/Universal Creative Lab class will be offered to graduate students in UCF’s themed experience program in the Spring 2023 semester. A second class will be open to graduate and upper-class students in Summer 2023.  



Knight Nation homecoming has returned with a full lineup of performances, events, concerts and of course, the one and only Spirit Splash! We have everything you will need to know about next week’s lineup that students can look forward to. 
UCF Homecoming released the full schedule of events that will take place from Monday Oct. 24-Saturday Oct. 29 next week. 
Reminder: There are still Ticket Distribution dates for Concert Knight and Comedy Knight left before next week and you will need to have a ticket ahead of time to go to the event because it will be first come first served for your student complementary tickets, just present your UCF ID at the ticket distribution center on 
Oct. 20 at Student Union Patio 11 a.m.-3 p.m. 
Oct. 21 Lake Claire 8-11 p.m. 
Here is the full list of this year’s events via UCF’s Homecoming page: 
List of Events: 
Monday Oct. 24 
Homecoming Kickoff Featuring Knights Got Talent | Memory Mall | 5:30 p.m. kick-off, 8 p.m. showtime 
Bring a blanket or chair to Memory Mall and watch your fellow Knights showcase their special talents. 
Oct. 25 – Movie Knight: Lightyear | Pegasus Ballroom | Doors open at 8 p.m., movie starts at 8:15 p.m. 
Join Buzz Lightyear and friends on a new adventure. Enjoy free popcorn and take home some free swag. This event is open to UCF students and the community. 
Oct. 26 – Comedy Knight: Marlon Wayans | Addition Financial Arena | Doors open at 7 p.m., show starts at 8 p.m. 
Enjoy an evening laughing with your fellow Knights. This year’s act is Marlon Wayans, most known for White Chicks, the Scary Movie franchise and The Wayans Bros.  Floor seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Students must secure a free ticket at ticket distribution to attend. Tickets for the public are available for purchase for $25 on Ticketmaster. 
Oct. 27 – Foam Splash | Communication and Media Building Courtyard, UCF Downtown | Noon 
UCF Downtown may not have a pool or a pond, but you can still splash into homecoming week. Jump into a foam pit, check out photo stations and a mechanical shark, and eat corn dogs. 
Oct. 27 – Concert Knight: T-Pain | Addition Financial Arena | Doors open at 7 p.m., show starts at 8 p.m. 
UCF Homecoming is proud to announce a high energy Concert Knight featuring T-Pain. The Florida rapper, singer and songwriter is known for hits like “Can’t Believe It,” “Bartender,” “Buy U a Drank,” and “I’m Sprung.” 
Students must secure a free ticket at ticket distribution to attend. Tickets for the public are available for purchase for $25 on Ticketmaster. For additional information, please contact hcmusic@ucf.edu 
Oct. 27-Oct. 29 | Theatre UCF Presents Working | UCF Theatre, Main Stage | 7:30 p.m. 
Join Theatre UCF Thursday, Friday or Saturday night for a unique and patchwork account of class through monologues and songs that compel us to take a peek in the lives of everyday laborers in this country with heart, compassion and gratitude. Tickets are available for purchase online. 
Oct. 28 – Spirit Splash | Reflecting Pond | Noon 
UCF’s biggest homecoming tradition is back. Students will be able to run into the Reflecting Pond and to attempt to catch the elusive ducks. There will be special guest speakers, as well as performances from the Cheer Team, Knightmoves and Marching Knights. This event is free and open to UCF students and the community. 
Oct. 28 – Step Show | Addition Financial Arena | 7 p.m. 
UCF Homecoming and the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) will be hosting its Step Show Competition. This will not only serve as a showcase of one of the most significant cultural aspects that all of NPHC organizations were created upon, but also a platform for our Black, Greek-lettered organizations to display their talents to the university and local community. 
Student tickets are free with a valid UCF ID. Tickets for the public may be purchased for $15 on Ticketmaster. For additional information please contact hcstep@ucf.edu 
Oct. 28 – Fireworks Festival | Memory Mall | Lawn opens at 9 p.m., fireworks start at 9:30 p.m. 
After the Step Show, enjoy the traditional fireworks display. Feel free to bring your own towel, blanket or chair to watch the show. This event is free and available to UCF students and the community. 
Oct. 29 – UCF Football vs. Cincinnati | FBC Mortgage Stadium | TBD 
Watch the Knights take on the Cincinnati Bearcats and during the homecoming game. Contact the UCF Athletics Ticket Office at 407.823.1000 or online to purchase game tickets. 
Oct. 29 – Royalty Crowning | FBC Mortgage Stadium | Halftime at the UCF vs Cincinnati football game 
Watch the Knights take on Cincinnati and during halftime UCF’s 2022-23 Homecoming Court will be crowned. 
Homecoming is one of the most exciting weeks of the year as a Knight and is one you do not want to miss. The most popular events will be Concert Knight, Comedy Knight, Spirit Splash and the annual Homecoming football game so planning accordingly and the earlier you arrive for each the better 



