In the wake of devastation left from Hurricane Fiona, the Puerto Rican Student Association at UCF held a remembrance event at the main campus reflecting pond for Hurricane Maria’s 5-year anniversary of making landfall to the island. 
To this date, Puerto Rico has suffered an estimated 43 billion dollars in damage to the island which is still recovering with a fragile power grid.
The student association held a remembrance event Tuesday afternoon to reflect on the country of Puerto Rico’s resilience after the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria. The UCF group released a statement on the event beforehand: 
“We will be reflecting on Puerto Rico’s resilience and powerful optimism that keeps our island going,” The UCF student association said in a statement.  “Hurricane Maria destroyed houses, schools, roads, but our people brought it back up with hard work and perseverance.” 
UCF has reported 345 students who have benefited from an approved special wavier to receive in-state tuition rates after coming to the University because of the effects of Hurricane Maria. 



The UCF volleyball team has now entered into the latest ranking polls after going undefeated in non-conference play for the first time in program history.  
Cracked the Top 25 ☑️#ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/fHGLUbL3yR
The Knights are coming off an 8-0 start to the season to close out non-conference play after winning all three games in the Jayhawk Classic Tournament this past weekend, which saw the team sweep both Kansas and Lipscomb. 
The Knights were led by graduate student Mckenna Melville who was named American Athletic Conference Offensive Player of the Week. Melville picked up 27 kills in a five-set win over Omaha Thursday, 23 kills in a 3-0 sweep against 23rd-ranked Kansas and closed out the weekend with 10 kills against Lipscomb. 
A historic weekend culminates in @American_VBall Offensive Player of the Week!#ChargeOn pic.twitter.com/RiVgxyaCq2
With the undefeated start to the season, the Knights check in at No. 25 in the latest American Volleyball Coaches Association Top 25 Coaches Poll. This is the first time UCF has been ranked since Nov. 26, 2018, where the Knights checked in at No. 18. 
The Knights will open conference play this Friday against the Memphis Tigers at 7 p.m. 



UCF has now been recognized by the INSIGHT into Diversity magazine for its eighth consecutive Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) award for the University’s commitment to inclusion and diversity. 
For the eighth year running, UCF has been honored with the Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Award. This prestigious award is a reflection of our dedication to making a positive impact throughout all of our communities.
As recipient of the HEED Award, UCF will be featured in the November 2022 issue of INSIGHT into Diversity magazine alongside 102 other recipients. INSIGHT is the largest and oldest diversity-focused publication in higher education. UCF stands alongside Princeton University and Johns Hopkins University recognized this year.
Andrea Guzmán, the vice president for the UCF’s Diversity Equity and Inclusion said she believed the award reflects the university’s commitment to provide students of all backgrounds the tools they need to succeed. 
“We believe that every individual who chooses to enroll, work or partner with UCF should have the ability to achieve their goals and reach their fullest potential,” Guzmán said. “The HEED Award is reflective of our steadfast commitment to inclusive excellence, which allows us to put our values into practice and fulfill our mission.” 
As of the Fall 2022 semester, 29.8% of UCF’s undergraduate student body identify as Latino/Hispanic.  
This past month, U.S. News & World Report has ranked UCF No. 59 across all Universities in the country and 41st among public schools for Top Performers on Social Mobility. According to Washington Monthly, UCF is ranked 37th among national universities for Social Mobility, up 21 spots from the previous year.   



A day after being named the AAC Offensive Player of the Week, UCF quarterback John Rhys Plumlee was selected to the Davey O’ Brien Great 8 List and has been added to the watch list for best national quarterback award. 
Blessed! https://t.co/JAOwFK8g6a
The Davey O’ Brien Great 8 List recognizes the top quarterback performances in the nation for the week and has now put Plumlee on the watch list for the Davey O’Brien National Quarterback Award which is presented annually to the best of all NCAA quarterbacks. The players recognized are judged by the Davey O’Brien Foundation and the annual awards dinner and trophy presentation is held usually in February.    
The recognition comes off the heels of an impressive 40-14 win over the FAU Owls where Plumlee racked up a career-high 339 yards where he completed nearly 70% of his passes thrown and lead the team in rushing with 121 yards and three total touchdowns. 
So far this season, UCF is the only FBS team to accumulate over 600 yards of total offense within their first two games. 
Plumlee will return to FBC Mortgage Stadium Friday to take on ACC foe, Georgia Tech at 4 p.m. 



