“Christmas is coming, it’s practically here!” Univeral Orlando announced the park’s Holiday Celebrations will return starting Nov. 12. 
The Central Florida theme park giant released a video on their social media accounts featuring the ‘Mean One’ himself, the Grinch as he playfully dreads the incoming Christmas music that is playing in anticipation of this year’s event. 
Anyone can “Ho-ho-ho” and “Fa-la-la” for the holidays. But if you want to scream, laugh and shout your jingle bells off, you’ve got to awesome up your holiday at Universal Orlando Resort, Nov 12, 2022 – Jan 1, 2023. It’s the awesomest holiday celebration of the season. pic.twitter.com/BTohW3B76X
Universal Orlando released the following statement on this year’s Christmas themed event on their website Thursday. 
“Throughout the entire destination, guests can celebrate the most wonderful time of the year with an incredible collection of epic festivities featuring some of pop culture’s most beloved stories and characters – all brought to life in experiences that range from traditional merriments to irreverent twists on holiday classics that can’t be experienced anywhere else,” Universal Orlando said in a statement. 
Universal Orlando’s Holiday Celebrations will take place from Nov. 12 through Jan. 1 2023, and will feature a return of the Macy’s Holiday Parade and Grinchmas at both Universal Studios and Island’s of Adventure. Here’s what to expect: 
Universal’s Holiday Parade featuring Macy’s: 
Catch larger-than-life balloons floating through the streets of Universal Studios Florida, along with appearances by the Minions from Illumination’s Despicable Me and some of your favorite characters from DreamWorks Animation’s Shrek and Madagascar films. 
Grinchmas: 
During the holiday season, Seuss Landing is decorated with the holiday charm and cheer of Dr. Seuss’s Who-ville. Get together with the resident Whos and put a little snark in your holiday spirit with the Grinch. Enjoy the music and fun of The Grinchmas Who-liday Spectacular. 
Christmas in The Wizarding World of Harry Potter: 
Join the celebration as Hogwarts castle lights up for the holidays and festive decor brightens up the streets of Hogsmeade in Universal’s Islands of Adventure and Diagon Alley in Universal Studios Florida. Enjoy a hot Butterbeer while both the Frog Choir and Celestina Warbeck and the Banshees put a holiday spin on their performances. 
Mannheim Steamroller: 
The popular band known for their intense holiday music songs from Universal’s movie How the Grinch Stole Christmas in 2000, will have Live performances at Universal Studios Florida on December 3, 4, 10 and 11. 



