The UCF Football team moved up a few spots in the Associated Press College Football Poll after hanging on to beat the Memphis Tigers on the road setting up a ranked matchup with Tulane later this week. 
The Knights have moved from No. 25 to No.22 in the nation after a gutsy victory defeating the Memphis Tigers 35-28 to improve to 4-1 in American Athletic Conference play and 7-2 overall for the season.  
With the Knights picking up their first win against a ranked opponent since 2018 by beating Cincinnati a couple of weeks ago, The Knights are set to take on another ranked AAC leader Tulane this weekend.  
Tulane moved up to No. 16 in the country after defeating Tulsa 27-13 on the road to move to 8-1 overall for the season and 5-0 in conference play. 
The Knights will travel west to New Orleans Louisiana to take on the Green Wave this Saturday at 3:30 p.m. The game will be broadcast on ESPN2. 
top-25 matchup in NOLA pic.twitter.com/5WuNfxNZdL



According to the National Hurricane Center, Nicole, a subtropical storm that formed east of the Bahamas Monday, is projected to become a Hurricane and make landfall in the Eastern Central Florida area later this week.
Nicole which became the 14th storm of the Atlantic season Monday, is currently several hundred miles east of the Bahamas with the forecast of transitioning into a tropical storm within the next day. 
According to the UCF Department of Emergency Management, Nicole is expected to become a Category One Hurricane and make landfall at the coast late Wednesday evening and advancing inland during the overnight and into Thursday morning. 
Currently there are Tropical Storm watches for Orange County with a Hurricane watch for Brevard, Indian River, St. Lucie and Martin counties at this time. 
The National Hurricane Center is projecting potential damaging strong tropical storm force winds with hurricane gusts for the Central Florida area along with rainfall as high as 6 inches and isolated tornado threats as Nicole passes through Florida on Thursday. 
4 pm EST: Here are the Key Messages for Subtropical Storm #Nicole.  See https://t.co/tW4KeGe9uJ for more details. pic.twitter.com/fi7mUuLeOZ
With the damage caused by Hurricane Ian last month to the Central Florida area, it looks like students will have to prepare yet again for potential strong winds and flooding from another Hurricane. 
There have been no reports of how this will affect scheduled classes for this week, but stay tuned with Knight News as we update this story as it develops. 



