The Holiday season is upon us! SeaWorld Orlando’s Christmas Celebration returns and makes the case for Orlando’s best holiday-themed experience at a theme park. Here are the top five reasons to check out the event. 
Price 
Here is where you can find the biggest discounts for your trip to this year’s Christmas Celebration. 
Theming and Decorations 
What makes this event stand out compared to other holiday theme park offerings in the Orlando area is that EVERY portion of the park is decorated, and you really feel it throughout the event wherever you go.  
Popular annual traditions like Grinchmas at Universal Orlando or the Holiday decorations on main street at the Magic Kingdom which are very well themed and fun, but are only in portions of the park with other parts of the park having the same everyday aesthetic to them which can take you out of the holiday spirit very fast. 
 SeaWorld’s Christmas Celebration has some of the best holiday theming out of any theme park we’ve attended which helps elevate the whole event as a result and which includes snow flurries near the waterfront several times each night along with a sea of luminescent trees that can be seen anywhere in the park and change colors and “dance” to holiday classics tunes constantly throughout your evening. As Floridians know, any sight of “snow” during the winter season is a rare treat indeed. 
Shows & Entertainment 
O Wondrous Night: 
This show is returning this year after replaced in 2021 for a holiday chorus show and we have to say that we do like this one even better because it does showcases the “reason for the season” in a show told with over 30 carols, life-size puppets, and live animals. Fun, classic and heart felt, this is a recommend show each time you visit. 
Winter Wonderland on Ice: 
This in our opinion is the biggest surprise of the event, as it is our favorite holiday theme park show in the area, (sorry Grinchmas…). This is the number one thing that we recommend when visiting because it is a true highlight as it is a Christmas ice show set to holiday classics as a sea of sparkling trees and towering fountains dancing in the background come together in this ice-skating holiday show the whole family will enjoy! Fair warning though get here at least 20 minutes early to get decent seats. 
Tip: If you watch this show during your visit, we recommend doing the last show of the night because it will lead right into the Holiday Reflections: Fireworks Finale which caps off each night with festive fireworks, choreographed to joyous holiday musical favorites and while you can see these anywhere in the park, Bayside stadium is hands down the best place to experience this impressive fireworks display. 
Character Meet and Greets 
The Food 
Here are the five food items that were our personal favorites. 
The Main Event Fried turkey breast, andouille sausage stuffing, cranberries, and brown gravy 
All Grown-up Birria Grilled Cheese Texas toast, sharp cheddar, smoked cheddar, and tomato dipping soup
Santa’s Sweet & Savory Treat: Doughnut Chicken Sandwich Honey sriracha and pickles 
Chicken & Waffle Handheld Apple butter and maple syrup 
Bison Burger Served with cheddar cheese and bacon onion jam 
Enjoy the holidays Knight Nation and experience SeaWorld’s Christmas Celebration from now until December 31st! 




