The UCF pipeline to the NFL evolved after five former Knights saw their NFL dreams come true on draft weekend.
DL Kalia Davis, OL Cole Schneider, WR Brandon Johnson, OL Marcus Tatum, and DL Kris “Big Kat” Bryant were all named to NFL rosters this weekend.
However, only one was drafted.
Which Knights were drafted and who will each be playing for?
Davis was the lone Knight drafted after being selected No. 220 overall by the San Francisco 49ers in the Sixth Round of the 2022 NFL draft.  
Prior to missing all but five games of the 2021-22 season with a hamstring injury, Davis racked up 17 tackles, 4.5 tackles for loss, three QB hurries, and a sack.
The senior defensive lineman earned AAC Defensive Player of the Week honors with his breakout performance vs. Boise State, where he recorded six tackles, three TFLs, and a QB hurry.
According to ESPN, Davis is projected to be in the 49ers’ third rotation for the left defensive tackle spot.
Schneider was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Green Bay Packers following the draft on Saturday.
Schneider appeared in every game at guard for the Knights since his 2018 freshman season.
The standout lineman earned a plethora of accolades during his time with the Knights:
The Denver Broncos signed Johnson as an UDFA just minutes after the draft.
UCF WR Brandon Johnson is signing with the #Broncos, per league source.
During his senior season, Johnson led the team with 11 touchdown receptions on the year.  This ranked just second in the conference and No. 16 in the country.
The senior hauled in 38 receptions for 565 yards, ranking second on the team in both feats.
Johnson’s standout season earned him Second-Team All-Conference honors from Pro Football Network.
Johnson will be competing for a roster spot against a talented Broncos’ WR room that includes Jerry Jeudy, Courtland Sutton, Tim Patrick, and KJ Hamler.
Knight Nation will not have to travel far to watch its former O-Lineman suit up at the next level.
Tatum was signed by the Jacksonville Jaguars as an UDFA on Saturday night.
Former #UCF OL Marcus Tatum has signed with the Jacksonville #Jaguars, the Knights football program announced.
During the 2021 season, Tatum started all 13 games for the Knights at offensive tackle, earning second-team All-AAC honors from Phil Steele, as well as honorable mentions from AAC coaches and Pro Football Focus. 
Like Johnson, Big Kat also received the call just minutes after the draft.
Bryant will be joining fellow former Knight DL Trysten Hill in Dallas after being signed by the Cowboys as an UDFA.
Former UCF edge Big Kat Bryant is signing with the #Cowboys, per source.
Starting in all 13 games, Big Kat led the team with 14 TFLs and six sacks on the season.
Bryant also racked up 52 tackles, 10 quarterback hurries, and three pass breakups on the year.
The senior earned numerous honors during the 2021 season, including:
The evolution of the UCF pipeline to the NFL will only assist in the recruiting world – something head coach Gus Malzahn and staff have prioritized this offseason.



