New Netflix documentary, Running with the Devil: The Wild World of John McAffee dives into the life events of antivirus software founder’s life on the run after allegedly killing UCF bar owner Gregory Faull. 
Some ask me to respond to the Netflix documentary.  The allegations are absurd – not worthy of response. But some do ask. The director was caught paying "interviewees" to read a script. All recanted. See:https://t.co/FFptI6yUGphttps://t.co/jImAYHf0h5 https://t.co/VeKkpc6ALx
McAfee, who wrote the first commercial anti-virus software and founded the $14 billion McAfee Associates company, now has a 1hr and 45 min documentary detailing the life events of antivirus technology moguls after being named a person of interest in killing neighbor in 2012. 
Faull, who owned the bar, Tailgater’s Smokehouse at UCF and had a presence at the university’s sports events, was found face up in a pool of his own blood after being shot in the back of his head in his home on Nov. 11, 2012, according to Belize Police. 
After being named the person of interest by Belize authorities and sought for questioning, McAfee went on the run for over a month before resurfacing in the United States in December after fearing the police would kill him.  
Faull’s family filed a suit against McAfee for wrongful death in Orlando of November 2013, one year after Faull’s murder. After the case was closed due to “not enough revealing evidence”, a court of appeal ruling opened the case once again where U.S. District Judge Gregory Presnell ruled in 2018 that McAfee was indeed liable for Faull’s death. 
While always denying involvement the death the Faull’s murder, McAfee was eventually arrested in 2020 while trying to board a plane in Spain due to tax evasion. McAfee previously said in 2019 that he did not pay taxes for the past eight years because, “taxation is illegal”. 
McAfee was found dead in his prison cell in 2021 after alleged suicidal hanging. 
Running With The Devil is currently trending at the No. 2 in the top 10 movies on Netflix after releasing on Wednesday Aug. 24. 



