It was an eventful (but successful) weekend for the UCF baseball team — especially for head coach Greg Lovelady.
En route to the Knights’ 2-1 series victory at Memphis, Lovelady picked up his 300th career win, was ejected from the series finale, and the Knights scored a combined 28 runs in the final two games.
After falling 6-1 on Friday, the Knights run-ruled the Tigers in game two with a 13-3 domination, earning Lovelady his 300th win on Saturday.
Hear from @CoachLovelady23 after the Knights level the series and he picks up his 300th career victory!#ChargeOn⚔️ pic.twitter.com/xjtppoESd6
“300, I mean, It’s a good thing. A lot of good assistant coaches and a lot of good players that I’ve coached.  You know, it’s good to get it, but at the end of the day, it’s more important to get the conference win,” Lovelady told UCF Athletics following game two.
A solo homer by sophomore Alex Freeland at the top of the first propelled what ultimately became a five-run inning for UCF.
That was also the start of a career day for the sophomore.
Freeland recorded four hits, four runs, five RBIs, and two home runs in the Knights’ 13-3 victory.  
He finished the afternoon batting 4-for-5 and was just a triple short of completing the cycle.
Chaos occurred right off the bat in game three.
Literally.
Freshman catcher Andrew Sundean clobbered a three-run home run to extend the Knights’ lead to 5-0 in the first inning.  
Well, so we thought.
Following a brief discussion, the umpires declared there was too much pine tar on Sundean’s bat and reversed the call to an out.
Lovelady became unglued, stormed the field, and argued his case until the umpires had heard enough and booted him from the game.
Following even more discussion, the umps reversed the call again, granting Sundean his three-run homer.
Despite the blatantly inferior officiating, the Knights went on to have an even more commanding day, posting 15 runs and 19 hits in their 15-6 win.
Following the series, the Knights moved to 20-12 on the season and 5-1 in American Athletic Conference play.
UCF will make the short trip to Jacksonville to take on the Dolphins (15-3) on Tuesday at 7 pm.



