One day after the 2022 Major League Baseball season began, Florida’s very own – the Florida Marlins and Tampa Bay Rays — kicked off their seasons on Friday.
Both games went down to the wire.  
One team pulled out a victory in the final innings, while the other fell victim to a walk-off in extra innings.
Let’s start with the first game of the day.
The Rays hosted the Baltimore Orioles at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg to begin their season.
With the game tied at one apiece in the bottom of the eighth, Rays catcher Francisco Mejia came off the bench to pinch-hit for catcher Mike Zunino.  
With the bases loaded and one out on the board, Mejia hit a sacrifice fly to centerfield, sending first baseman Ji-Man Choi home to give the Rays a 2-1 lead – one they held onto for good.
Coming off a 10-6 season, where he posted a 3.43 ERA and 141 strikeouts, Rays pitcher Shane McClanahan was gifted the opening day start – and he did not disappoint.
En route to his first win of the year, the Rays’ left-handed pitcher struck out seven batters, and forced a shutout in 4.1 innings.  Of his 68 pitches, 44 were strikes.
What’s Next for Tampa Bay?
Game two of the three-game series will take place at 1:10 on Saturday with pitcher Drew Rasmussen set to take the mound for the Rays.  
Rasmussen will be coming off an impressive 4-1 2021-22 season, where he recorded a 2.48 ERA (Earned Runs Allowed).
The series finale will be played on Sunday at 1:10 pm.
Looking for a positive start to 2022-23 after a lackluster 67-95 season, the Marlins traveled to San Francisco to take on the Giants in Oracle Park.
After trailing the entire game, a 2-run homer by second baseman Jazz Chrisholm Jr. gave the Marlins a 5-4 lead at the top of the ninth – their first lead of the game.
A home run in the bottom of the ninth by Giants second baseman Thairo Estrada sent the game to extra innings.
Center fielder Andrew Slinger dinged a walk-off double in the bottom of the 10th to clinch the Giants’ 6-5 victory.
Starting pitcher Sandy Alcantara’s rocky performance played a key role to the Marlins’ early 3-0 deficit.  Alcantara allowed three runs, had two errors, and struck out only four batters in five innings.
What’s Next for the Marlins?
First pitch for game two is scheduled for 4:05 pm on Saturday.
Pablo Lopez will get the start for the Marlins, who will be looking to even the series.  
Lopez is coming off a 5-5 season, where he recorded 115 outs and a 3.07 ERA.
Game three will take place on Sunday at 4:05 pm.



