 Fire rescue responded to a small plane falling from the sky and crashing onto University Boulevard and into fencing near UCF Friday afternoon. 
https://t.co/mRGUTnkvVI pic.twitter.com/w6MT4WZnQz
A plane crashed down near the intersection of University Boulevard and North Econlockhatchee trail just before 4 p.m. according to Orange County Fire Rescue Officials. 
#AircraftEmergency: Intersection of University Blvd and N Econlockhatchee Tr. Small aircraft down in the roadway. No injuries reported. Debris on roadways. Please avoid the area.
Here is a video showing the moment the plane crashed into the street after hovering just a few feet above cars on the busy street. 
WATCH this. Raiah Collins and her friend were driving to Costco when they saw this plane CRASH onto University Blvd in Orlando. Everyone is okay! No homes or cars were hit!Credit: Raiah Collins @WESH pic.twitter.com/4UZdjiOPcw
There have been no injuries reported at this time. Debris are still on the runway with some eastbound lanes of University Blvd closed. 



72 hours after entering the transfer Portal, the UCF Football team picked up war on 1-4 rival USF quarterback Timmy McClain for the 2023 season. 
Blessed to be a UCF Knight ⚔️Charge on 🔋@CoachGusMalzahn @CoachDavidGibbs @UCF_Football @ChipLindsey11 pic.twitter.com/SljiJOQ5SE
The 6’1 190 lb. dual-threat quarterback commits UCF after spending the 2021 season as the Bulls starting quarterback for 11 of 12 games as a true Freshman. During his freshman campaign, McClain threw for 1,888 yards along with 5 touchdowns through the air and 7 interceptions in a season where the Bulls finished a woeful 2-10. 
McClain isn’t without his own history with the Knights, as McClain lead the Bulls down to the goal line in the final minute of USF’s season finale where the team narrowly lost 13-17. McClain finished the season and now his final game with the Knight’s rival throwing for 222 yards and a rushing touchdown. 
Since McClain transferred to UCF after July 1, he will be ineligible to play for the Knights during the 2022 season. Instead, the dual Threat quarterback will redshirt this upcoming season to compete for the starting job in Knights’ first season in the Big 12 in 2023.  
McClain will be sure to find Central Florida home as he is a former Seminole High School Quarterback where he passed for an 6, 351 yards, 68 TDs and ran for over 940 yards with 17 touchdowns on the ground over the course of 36 games played. 



