Out of the 14 catalytic converters thefts reported to
UCF Police in 2022 so far, this wave of crimes has left fourth-year UCF
Business Management student, Oliver Casey, more than just without a car. 
“Luckily, I have my bike, but it is a pain. I live full
time out of my Honda Element so now I’ve been having to sleep over at my
girlfriend’s house while it’s being fixed instead of my own home,” Casey said. 
The self-sufficient student said he was on his way
home from work when he noticed his muffler hanging from his car. When he turned
his car on, he said it sounded like a motorcycle and not like his Honda. 
Casey said he then called the UCF Police Department and
had a report filed. 
“I would really like to see UCF parking services put
in the infrastructure necessary to have cameras in their parking garages. It’s
a bit ridiculous with a campus with 70 thousand students that we don’t have
cameras in the garages,” Casey said. 
The UCF Police Department has arrested two individuals
believed to be responsible for multiple catalytic converter thefts on UCF’s
main campus. 
Tyre Smith, 23, and Kentrail McDaniel, 21, were arrested off-campus on Friday, March 18th on several charges including criminal mischief, petit theft, burglary of a conveyance, and possession of burglary tools according to arrest affidavits. 
Authorities said the two men are both from Texas and
have no UCF affiliation.
UCF Police Detective Alex Deluca said that another individual is believed to be involved in these catalytic converter thefts occurring on UCF’s main campus and around Central Florida. 
Detective Deluca said, “At that time, we weren’t able to prove that they were involved in our cases just based on what have you, not being able to see them in surveillance footage or whatever it may be. But the case is still ongoing.” 
Detective Melissa Guadagnino, who also assisted in the
investigation of the catalytic converter thefts, is telling the UCF community to
stay alert. 
“If you see anyone that’s not supposed to be in the
area that doesn’t look like they belong, just say something and call the police
department and say something to us and we’ll make sure that we’ll take care of
that problem for you,” Detective Guadagnino said. 



A 14-year-old boy passed away after suffering a fatal fall from ICON Park’s Free Fall ride in Orlando on Thursday.
According to FOX, law enforcement officers, paramedics, and firefighters were present at the scene following a 911 call at approximately 11 pm.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office confirmed that the boy was eventually transferred to Arnold Palmer Hospital, where he passed away from his injuries.  He was later identified as Tyre Sampson, a visitor from Missouri.
NBC’s “TODAY” aired video of the events leading up to the incident, as well as the aftermath.
ICON’s Free Fall is the world’s tallest free-standing drop tower, standing 430-feet tall, reaching a maximum 75 miles per hour, according to WESH.
The ride opened up in December 2021.
Orange County Sheriff John Mina described the incident as “a terrible tragedy” in a news conference on Friday.
"I'd like to extend my deepest condolences to the family of the young man who lost his life late last night after falling from the Orlando Free Fall attraction. We can't imagine the pain and anguish that his family must be going through."- OCSO Sheriff John Mina pic.twitter.com/a6tRdVn9PC
Click Orlando shared audio footage of the park staff discussing the incident.
“What are you doing? Didn’t you check it?” one staff member asked her co-worker
“Yeah, the light was on,” the co-worker responded.
“We both checked it. The light was on,” a third staff member chimed in.
The ride is being closed indefinitely, according to John Stine, director of sales and marketing for The SlingShot Group.



