Despite students reporting continued power outage and extensive water damage with flooding in the area from Hurricane Ian, UCF announced Friday that all classes are set to resume Monday Oct. 3. 
Since Hurricane Ian passed over the Central Florida area, many students have claimed to still not have their power back and reported major water damage to their apartments and property as an aftermath of the storm.  
Local apartment complexes near UCF’s main campus like Arden Villas and The Place at Alafaya have experienced extensive flooding as high as five feet in some areas where students reported lost cars property and being evacuated by airboats due to the current conditions. 
Extensive water damage and flooding around Arden Villas, about 200 residents evacuated to facility in Altamonte Springs. #IanHurricane #HurricaneIan sends us your videos and pics to news@knightnews.com pic.twitter.com/cHkU57OeuR
Some cars at #UCF area apartment Arden Villas are submerged in flood waters from #HurricanIan. Tweet us your videos or email news@knightnews.com. https://t.co/bvrDANzYvd
UCF released in a statement that while classes will resume with normal operations on Monday, the university asked employees and faculty for “empathy and patience” during the tough recovery from the Hurricane’s effects on the local community. 
“We understand the impacts of Hurricane Ian vary across Central Florida, and we are asking for patience and compassion for those who are continuing to feel the effects of the storm,” UCF said in a statement. “As we reopen, faculty and supervisors are asked to demonstrate empathy and provide flexibility to students and employees given Hurricane Ian’s catastrophic impact.” 
The University released the following information regarding what students, faculty and staff can expect when normal operations resume for the university Monday. 
For Students 
Students with outstanding needs can contact Student Care Services by filling out this form or emailing CareManager@ucf.edu. 
UCF Housing communities remain open and are safe for students to return to. 
Some campus services are already beginning to reopen to provide students access to dining and recreational facilities over the weekend. 
For Faculty 
Classes at UCF remain canceled through Saturday. No homework should be assigned or required to be submitted by UCF faculty during this time. 
Some students may struggle with returning to academics on Monday. Faculty should be understanding of the challenges students may be facing and should be as accommodating as possible. 
For Staff 
Supervisors are strongly encouraged to exercise empathy, understanding and flexibility. 
Employees should be clear with their supervisors about the storm’s personal impact and their ability to report to work on Monday. 
Our Employee Assistance Program is available to provide work, life and mental health support for you. 



UCF Football announced that its game against the SMU Mustangs which is set to kick off The Knight’s conference play has been pushed back to next week after the conditions and damage in the area from Hurricane Ian. 
After originally being set to play Saturday Oct. 1 and then delayed to Sunday Oct. 2, Knight Nation will have to wait until next week to see UCF take on SMU as the American Athletic Conference announced Friday that the game will kick off at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. 5. 
The Game will now be broadcast nationally on ESPN2.  
UCF athletics said that more information on the game day timeline and when parking lots will open will be announced at a later date. 
Any tickets claimed or purchased for the Mustang matchup originally scheduled for Saturday Oct. 1 will be honored at Wednesday’s game. 
There are still some student tickets left to claim and you can do so by clicking on this link. 



