After initially planning to resume classes Monday, UCF changed its position and announced that the university will resume classes Tuesday Oct. 4 after growing complaints from the student body over the response to the aftermath of Hurricane Ian. 
#UCFAlert  In response to additional last-minute closures and to further support our students and employees, UCF will now re-open Tuesday, Oct. 4. Students who have already returned to campus will have access to dining, recreation and wellness, and other student services.
UCF released another #UCFalert this weekend letting its student body know about the change in plans with the new reopening date stating after “working closely with community partners and monitoring local conditions” that the university will now remain closed through Monday Oct. 3.  
“We have learned that several of our local school districts have conducted assessments and that they will be unable to re-open as planned and will remain closed through Monday, Oct.3,” UCF said in a statement. “In response to these additional last-minute closures and to re-open Tuesday, Oct. 4.” 
The change in the reopening date comes after a wave of negative backlash from students claiming that the university is being “insensitive” and “not supportive” of a large number of students who are still dealing with power outage and extensive water damage from flooding in the area that have upended many Knights’ living situations in a disastrous way. 
Real deal tho. The fact that UCF isn’t pushing classes back further is surprising. There are students whose apartments are still flooded and have no means of transportation to make it to class. One day isn’t enough
I really hope @UCF gives some major leniency to students who’ve been impacted because I assure you, the last thing on their mind is getting to class on Monday.Their very homes and lives have been upended and need the support now more than ever.
The Central Florida area experienced significant flooding that rose as high as 6 ft in some areas with thousands of households are still without power.  
@UCF expects students to show up to classes on Monday when so many student apartments and cars are UNDERWATER due to #HurricaneIan. I lost my car and my apartment complex just deemed my apartment “unlivable” meaning I am now currently homeless. pic.twitter.com/47MMOjyoWE
UCF said that its Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) will be open Monday to offer an in person and Virtual post Hurricane crisis support drop in to cater to Students’ mental health as they navigate the next steps forward as they try to now juggle worrying about their worsened living conditions with coming back to school and focusing on their workload from classes at the same time. 
CAPS is open tomorrow 10/3 for support. We will be offering 2 drop in spaces post hurricane, one in person and one virtual. All regular appointments are cancelled and no show fees are waived. pic.twitter.com/Aqw7FwEhv4
Whether students are ready or not, the university’s regular operations and classes are set to resume Tuesday Oct. 4. 



