The Florida Department of Heath reported the first case of monkeypox in Orange County Florida Thursday afternoon. 
Jared Fox the Orlando Health Chief of Infectious diseases said he does not believe that the disease is as big of a threat as the public are led to believe. 
“The good thing is it’s not an extremely infectious organism, so a lot of people are going to be scared but I don’t want them to be,” Fox said. 
According to the CDC, the virus originates in wild animals like primates and rodents while occasionally infecting people. 
The department said, “Currently, there is no proven, safe treatment for monkeypox virus infection. For controlling a potential outbreak, the smallpox vaccine is given.” 
Fox said that while the disease’s threat to the general population is low, his department is confident is detecting infections. 
“I expect we’ll see some more cases,” said Fox.  “The good thing is that the Department of Health is good at contact tracing.” 
There are currently over 20 presumed cases in Florida. 



Pixar’s latest animated film ‘Lightyear’ is being banned in 14 countries in the Middle East and Asia because of a scene showcasing a same-sex kiss. 
The producer of the Buzz Lightyear centric origin story, Galyn Susman said showcasing the kiss between the Alisha Hawthorne character and her partner was integral to the story. 
“It was very important, that whole relationship is about showing Buzz what he doesn’t have, and we really just wanted to show a loving, meaningful relationship, and having a kiss as part of that, and we were really, really happy that we could do that,” Susman said. 
Director Angus MacLane said she was thrilled about Disney reinstating the scene after initially requesting to take it out. 
“Certainly, representation was something we were excited about, but more than anything, it’s a reflection of the reality of the world that we live in,” MacLane said. 
Lightyear is an animated spinoff of ‘Toy Story’ bringing the ‘real-life’ origin story of Iconic toy Buzz Lightyear. Lightyear is the film that Andy watched that made him want the Buzz action figure, starting the audience on the path to the original Toy Story films. 



The UCF Police Department received accreditation for the fourth time since 2013 from the Commission for Florida Law Enforcement Accreditation. 
UCFPD was visited by law enforcement practitioners in March to access the department’s compliance with about 250 standards relating to life and safety practices to earn the accreditation. 
The University’s police department was first accredited in 2013 with this year marking the fourth time receiving the honor. The accepted Accreditation will be valid for three years. 
UCF Police Chief Carl Metzger said the department was honored and will continue to strive to be one of the most progressive departments in the country. 
“My charge to every member of UCF Public Safety is to do the right thing, and the third-party review from the CFA validates that we are on the right path and serving our community according to the highest standards,” said Metzger. “We are honored to have again earned accreditation, and we will continue to push forward to be the most professional, progressive and innovative campus law enforcement agency in the country.” 



The city of Orlando will hold its Inaugural Juneteenth Celebration Festival on Saturday June 18. 
Orlando will hold the festival to commemorate the ending of slavery in the United State with slogan of the event being, “Freedom is not free: Honoring the Past – Pressing Towards the Future.”  
The event will have live music, entertainment, a kid’s zone, vendor village, and food trucks. 
The festival will start at 12 p.m. and will located at the following address: 
Lake Lorna Doone Park  
1519 West Church Street 



