The former star UCF Quarterback that led the Knights to their undefeated “National Championship” season has retired from the sport of football.
Former UCF QB McKenzie Milton announced his retirement from football on Instagram, thank you @McKenzieMil10 pic.twitter.com/2KZlPKE5G1
Milton announced on his personal instagram account that his time playing the game he loves is over.
“There is no easy way to put or say this but my playing days of football have come to an end,” Milton said. “With the culmination of the 2022 NFL Draft, it has become pretty evident that a path to the NFL is not realistic given the external variables.”
During the 2018 season with the Knights, Milton suffered a severely dislocated leg after a brutal hit he suffered during play against rival USF. At one point it looked like he would have his leg amputated. Milton underwent extensive surgery and Doctors said he may never be able to play again. 
Almost three years go by an Milton returned to the field but with a new team after transferring his senior year to play for the Florida State Seminoles. Milton finished his colligate tenure and final season passing for 775 yards, three touchdowns and six interceptions.
Milton said he thought that his injury may have cost his NFL future but believes he was given an even greater gift.
“A lot of people will wonder what if he never got hurt what if this what if that? I asked myself those same questions for a while too,” Milton said. “It wasn’t until November 23, 2021 (three year anniversary of my injury) where I saw my son for the first time on ultrasound and then understood why I went through what I went through. It took three years to put it all in perspective. I get goosebumps thinking about how divine it is that three years to the day I get hurt, is the same day I see my baby boy for the first time.”
Milton said he was thankful for the support from his fans that supported him through the ups and downs of his career and the fathers out there that he will someday become.
“As much as I love playing QB and being in the locker room with the guys, I know there’s no greater opportunity/responsibility in this world than being a father,” Milton said. “Let me make a call out to all the dads out there..step up and lead your families!! God bless you all and much love.”
From all of us here in Knight Nation, Thanks for the memories, you were one of the best we ever had, we wish you the best.



