Commerical developers Marc and Sharon Hagle of Winter Park, Florida, committed more than $5 million to UCF Athletics, making it the largest cash pledge ever by a individual or couple for the university. 
Big hearts and generosity goes a long way, and this time, it comes though a $5 million gift commitment ⚔️ Thanks to Sharon and Marc Hagle (@spacekidsglobal) for the largest gift in @UCFKnights history ⚔️✨https://t.co/DgWikB2u1R
The couple said they were thrilled to help the university as it continues to grow and are positioned to take the next step in the national spotlight as they move into the Big 12 Conference on July 1, 2023. 
“With a thriving community in Orlando, a bustling Space Coast nearby and one of the largest yet youngest alumni bases in the nation, UCF is well positioned to be a university for the future,” Marc and Sharon Hagle said in a statement. “Success in intercollegiate athletics is paramount to matching the university’s continued growth. We are thrilled to help the Knights take their next steps into the Big 12. So much has happened for the Knights over the last decade–it is breathtaking to imagine what the future holds for UCF.” 
UCF vice president and director of athletics Terry Mohajir said this commitment will prove crucial to every student athlete as they transition to a power 5 conference going forward. 
“The Hagles’ commitment is a critical investment in our Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village vision. As we transition into the Big 12 Conference and transform the proposed football campus, it will have a major impact on the daily functions of the lives of our student-athletes, coaches and the university community,” Mohajir said. “Thank you, Sharon and Marc. We know this gift will inspire others to invest in UCF Athletics through the ChargeOn Fund.” 
This commitment will be a part of the Mission XII initiative, the university will honor the Hagles by naming the Football campus, “The Sharon and Marc Hagle Gateway” with approval from the UCF board of trustees. The “Gateway” design project will include Nicholson Plaza, McNamara Cove, renovated practice fields and a VIP parking lot. 



