A tech startup at central Florida research park on the outskirts of UCF is working towards making driving significantly safer. 
Luminar has a goal of saving 100 million lives over the next 100 years with its high-tech, lidar-based remote sensing system. Lidar, which stands for “light detection and ranging,” uses the light from a laser to collect measurements and generate precise 3D information about the shape of the Earth and the characteristics of its surface.
It’s the same technology autonomous vehicles use to avoid obstacles and navigate the roads safely, essentially serving as the self-driving vehicle’s eyes.
However, instead of going all in on driverless cars, Luminar’s 27-year-old founder, Austin Russell, told anchor Justin Warmoth on “The Weekly” he’s more focused on using his company’s lidar to ultimately create an “uncrashable car” by improving driver-assist systems in a big way. The focus is more about enhancing drivers ability and making them better drivers in order to save lives, according to Russel. 
Luminar went public in 2020, making Russell the world’s youngest self-made billionaire at the age of 25 after he started the company when he was 17 and since then, signing deals with some of the world’s biggest automotive manufacturers, including Volvo, Nissan and Mercedes-Benz, to install the company’s lidar system in millions of new vehicles over the next few years.
The technology aims for collision avoidance, taking over the braking system and steering wheel to avoid impending accidents. 
Russel says that the fact that his company has built everything from the ground up differentiates his company from the rest. 
“We make all of our own components, chips, everything that’s gone into it today to achieve this breakthrough level of performance,” he said. “We sort of had our claim to fame by having this huge 10x improvement in performance capabilities, safety, and what we could enable by seeing very long distances, very accurately, in a league no one else could.” 
While Luminar has a presence in Silicon Valley, the majority of its production happens at its Orlando headquarters. In fact, the company just cut the ribbon on a new long-range lidar test facility along Barack Obama Parkway.
Russell said Central Florida’s rich talent pool is another major factor in the company’s early success. The largest Department of Defense laser programs, including Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman, have a significant presence in Orlando as well.
“When it comes to hardware and these types of lidar systems, Orlando has been amazing,” Russell said. “I think that was really a key driver, and also just seeing the potential of Orlando and Central Florida generally. I think it was substantially underestimated in terms of the capabilities of what you can get out of it.”
This story was first reported by ClickOrlando.com



For those who have a love for the arts, this one’s for you. This charming city just north of Orlando will be hosting their annual Winter Park Sidewalk Art Festival — one of the most prestigious outdoor festivals in the country. Best of all, admission is free.
Discover: Spring Art Festivals in Orlando
If you are interested in gardening and excited for the rise of springtime flowers, you can take it all in at the EPCOT International Flower & Garden Festival. Enjoy garden exhibits, flavorful foods and live entertainment at Walt Disney World   
®
Resort.
Discover: Spring Foodie Festivals in Orlando
Looking to discover an ocean of flavors? You’ll find it at SeaWorld Orlando’s Seven Seas Food Festival. Not only will there be food at this festival, but live music as well. If you are a foodie and want to taste global cuisine delights, set sail on this delicious adventure.
New Orleans isn’t the only place to celebrate Mardi Gras. Universal Orlando Resort is hosting their very own party, and it’s a time for people to gather and carry on the tradition of music, parades, floats and excitement. 
March is brought to you by the “luck of the Irish” — maybe you’ll get lucky and stumble upon a four-leafed clover at two of my favorites.
Discover: St. Patrick’s Day in Orlando
Combine your group with other groups and mingle the day/night away for this St. Patrick’s Day Pub Crawl in downtown Orlando. Grab all the green you can and sign up for this wild event.
Boxi Park is hosting a special St. Paddy’s Day Party where there will be food specials, authentic dancers and a marching band. It takes place in Lake Nona close to Orlando International Airport.
Discover: Things to Do in Lake Nona



