May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
Ashley Noble
On this beautiful campus, we have the advantage of having an equally beautiful gymnasium that is open to all students, alumni, faculty, and everyone else who wants to use the Jeanette and Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. Recreation Center.  The Pratt first opened on April 1, 2002 and recently celebrated its 10 year anniversary on April 1, 2011.  Students, faculty and staff came together at the center to commemorate the occasion with music, prizes, trivia, and refreshments. VIP’s in attendance included Long Island University President David Steinberg and C.W. Post Provost Paul Forestell.
The Pratt Recreation Center’s general hours of operation during the school year for the Fitness Center, Indoor Track, Basketball and Racquetball courts are Mondays through Thursdays 7am to Midnight; Fridays 7am to 9pm; and Saturdays and Sundays 10am to 9pm.  The Natatorium Swimming Pool hours are Mondays through Fridays, morning swims are from 7am to 9am, and evening swims are from 6pm to 9pm.  Also on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, lunch swims are available from 12:45pm to 2pm.  On Saturdays and Sundays, the pool is open from 12pm to 7pm.  Over the summer, however, the Pratt is open from 7am to 7pm, and is closed on Saturdays and Sundays.
Our premiere recreation center is worth $18.5 million dollars!  It is a 77,000 square foot facility containing a modern, well-lit 3,000 seat arena with stadium style seating gymnasium with three full size basketball, volleyball, and badminton courts, an elevated Mondo Super-X indoor jogging track, an eight lane recreational and competitive swimming pool, weight room, fitness room, racquetball courts and locker rooms.  It features a state-of-the-art Human Performance Lab as well as “smart classrooms” equipped with fiber-optic Internet access for use by the campus’ Health and Physical Education program.
In the Pratt Recreation Center, another perk offered is personal training.  Trainers Gavin Davila, Anthony Gillanzo, Martin Gillet, Jordan Michel and Kevin Ruiz are certified and are willing to help students find the program that is just right for their needs.  If you are looking for positive reinforcement and enjoy a one-on-one workout, the personal training program is perfect for you.  All you have to do to get involved with this program is leave your name, telephone number and available times to train with a staff member in the fitness room and when a spot becomes available, a trainer will contact you to start your schedule.  Trainers can also customize a fitness plan that fits your schedule so you can work-out when it is most convenient for you without having to meet with your trainer each time. Also offered in the Pratt are monthly fitness orientations which help explain each piece of equipment and their desired function. This is a good way to get familiar and comfortable with the equipment and find out more about the fitness programs.
To find out any other information about the Pratt Recreation Center and exactly what is offered there over the summer and during the school year, contact the Information Desk at (516) 299-3250.
Published in News and _Front Page

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 5a18270951d3574dcaff1f44d1f5e3f6
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
