May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
Rebecca Martelotti Staff Writer
Finals are quickly approaching but this means that summer is almost here. With the arrival of summer, comes the start of countless music festivals in the New York area. While Coachella and Ultra are already behind us, there are plenty of other festivals to get you pumped this summer. Whether you’re into indie, rock, folk or techno, these huge summer events will be sure to keep your ears ringing until the fall.
Electric Daisy Carnival is May 17 and 18 at Citi Field. This festival is for the electronic music lovers. Performers include Calvin Harris, Nervo, Afrojack and dozens of other DJs. The incredible theatrics, pyrotechnics and art add another dimension to this awesome lineup.
The two-day regular admission pass to EDC is $215, VIP tickets are $320 which includes a separate VIP entrance, viewing decks overlooking multiple stages and full cash bars located in the VIP lounge areas. The festival will also have vendors and fully stocked bars in the general admission area.
“I went to EDC with all of my friends last summer and we are definitely going back this year,” said Talia Charlton, a junior Journalism major. “There are so many different DJs and performers; you just dance the whole time. I recommend that everyone goes.” Students can purchase tickets and see the full list of performers at electricdaisycarnival.com/NewYork/.
Vans Warped Tour is July 13 at Nassau Coliseum. “Warped Tour is the best part of my summer. I look forward to it all year,” said James Grady, a sophomore Criminal Justice major. This year’s Warped Tour will have appearances by The Story So Far, Never Shout Never, Motion City Soundtrack, and a handful of others. Tickets are $49.95 and can be purchased on vanswarpedtour.com.
For those willing to travel two hours to Pennsylvania, Made in America tour hosted by Budweiser features Beyonce, Miguel, Calvin Harris, Imagine Dragons, and Wiz Khalifa. The festival is at Benjamin Franklin Parkway on August 31 and September 1. Students can also take the New Jersey Transit from Penn Station. For more information go to www.madeinamericafest.com.
The music festival that closes out the summer is the three-day Electric Zoo festival, from August 30 to September 1. This festival, held annually during Labor Day weekend on Randall’s Island Park in NYC, is for the electronic music fans.
Since it began in 2009, Electric Zoo hosts a number of the top DJ’s and electronic acts. Last year’s festival was headlined by Pretty Lights, Above & Beyond, and Skrillex. The lineup for this year’s event includes Avicii, Benny Benassi, Steve Aoki, David Guetta and many more. Tickets start on $329 for the general admission pass and can purchased at www.madeevent.com/ElectricZoo/.
“Tickets are expensive, but E-zoo is worth the purchase,” said Melissa Weisman, a sophomore Speech Pathology major. “It’s tons of different concerts wrapped into one because of the many artists.”
“I would much rather pay this much to go to E-zoo which is three days than pay this much to go to a concert for one night,” said Alyssa Yannuzzi, a sophomore Public Relations major. “Everyone will have a blast the whole weekend, just listening to tons of different musicians. Trust me, this is the best weekend you will have all summer.”
When the sun shines, musicians come out to play. New York has plenty of opportunities for you to rock out on a field this summer.
Published in Features

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 2880f3a6d2b687b901266547b2b5b6ee
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
