May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Carlo Valladares
News Editor
Under a tent on the Great Lawn of LIU’s Post campus, Petter Holmsen, valedictorian and Film major from Norway, spoke to his fellow graduates. During his commencement speech, he talked about the challenges facing graduates today while repeating his favorite film quotes. “‘Carpe Diem, seize the day’, said Robin Williams in Dead Poets Society,” said Holmsen, repeating a line from the classic film, while urging his fellow grads to fulfill their dreams.
Holmsen wasn’t the only speaker during the 56th annual commencement ceremony that took place Friday, May 9. Dr. Kimberly Cline, LIU Post’s president, also spoke. Cline addressed the dedication of the students, but also of the faculty. “LIU’s world class faculty have guided you, encouraged you, and prepared you inside and outside of the classroom,” Cline said. “Their lessons will continue to inspire you throughout your lives.”
The main ceremony opened with “America the Beautiful,” performed by the LIU Post Wind Symphony and LIU Post Chorus. Music professor James W. McRoy, and graduate Joseph Mele (’14), were the conductors.
 
Following the musical opening were various commencement speakers: Jacquelyn Nealon, the Chief of Staff and Vice President for Enrollment; Father Edward “Ted” J. Brown, the Catholic Chaplain; Eric Krasnoff, the chairman of the Board of Trustees; Dr. Cline, and Thersea Mall Mullarkey, the university Chancellor and Board of Trustees member. Petter Holmsen and Maria Otterlei were recognized as the Valedictorian and Salutatorian at the ceremony; both are international students from Norway.
After the general conferral of undergraduate and graduate degrees, each academic school relocated individually to various locations on campus for their independent Recognition Receptions in which each graduate was called up by name. Students from LIU Brentwood and LIU Riverhead joined the LIU Post students for their commencement.
According to Wilkow, each school had the following number of graduates:
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and Clinical Psychology Doctoral Program 
Graduates: 475
 
College of Management
Graduates: 300
College of Education and Information Sciences
Graduates: 750
School of Visual and Performing Arts
Graduates: 235
School of Health Professions and Nursing 
Graduates: 270
Published in News

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 17eb5f4f26a7e7469422828b998e93e4
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
