May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
Last updated on Sep 16, 2019 
By Angela Alfano
News Editor
On the second floor of the Woodbury Country Club, a dining hall was filled with established journalists on Thursday evening, June 4. Being honored at the Press Club of Long Island’s Annual Media Awards were not only journalists from News 12 and Newsday, among other local media outlets, but also student journalists from the LIU Post Pioneer. LIU Post was one of the few universities recognized at this prestigious event.
Kristen Linsalata, a senior English major who is the current editor-in-chief of The Pioneer, and Dorianna Valerio, former editor-in-chief of The Pioneer and now a Desk Assistant at CBS News Radio, were recognized in the Breaking News: Student category for the article “Women Are Running LIU Post,” published by the Pioneer on February 13, 2014. Linsalata was the writer of the article and Valerio was the editor.
Linsalata said that she is grateful for not only being a part of the PCLI Awards Dinner but to also have been recognized for doing something she loves to do. “It was a sobering and humbling experience to be in a room with such accredited professionals in the field as well as fellow students who are also being recognized,” Linsalata said.
“Writing for The Pioneer and being a part of the editorial team has changed the trajectory of my life and career and I couldn’t be more thankful to my family, friends, our advisor Carolyn Levin, and the rest of the Pioneer and the Bottom Line staff, and my professors here at LIU Post for believing in me,” she said.
Valerio said that she is very proud of Linsalata for her article and being recognized for her work. “I’m so happy that this is another year that The Pioneer is being recognized,” Valerio said. “We really have a great staff and a lot of hardworking writers, so I’m just proud that people see that!”
Valerio said what she would tell young journalists to enjoy this time as writers for their college newspaper as much as possible. She said that although there may be things student journalists do not like doing, such as going up to strangers and interviewing them, it will pay off in the long run.
Published in News

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 3c2f9f611412ab638581490c57f70038
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
