May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Caroline Ryan
News Editor
The Pioneer won four awards at the 2015 Press Club of Long Island Media Awards dinner on Thursday, June 2.
Among the winners were senior journalism major Joseph Iemma, who won third place in the Narrative News Story, Student category for his story Sweet or Sour, Melanie Spina, a 2016 journalism graduate, who won third place in the Narrative Feature Story, Student category for her Most Embarrassing Moments in the Classroom, and Thomas Scavetta, a senior broadcasting major, who won third place in the Narrative Sports Reporting, Student category for his 32 Year Old Student Captain Headlines Wrestling Squad.
The Pioneer’s fourth award was a third place honor for Best College Newspaper. This was the first time that the Pioneer has won an award in the Best College Newspaper category. This is also the first time the Pioneer has won so many PCLI awards in one year.
The Pioneer’s Editor-in-Chief, Maxime Devillaz, felt honored to attend the awards dinner with hundreds of media professionals. “What made me most proud however, was the fact that our paper was up for so many awards this year. The awards really reflect the staff’s hard work and it’s especially nice to get recognized for the good you’re doing for the community.”
Spina, who was the Co-Opinions Editor of the Pioneer in spring 2016, said, “It’s such an honor to be recognized among so many media professionals that have had this career for many years. The event was a great opportunity to network and it was interesting to hear the amazing career stories of many professionals on Long Island.”
Chris Vaccaro, president of the Press Club of Long Island, stated that honoring student journalists is extremely special. He hopes that the PCLI awards inspire students “to continue to grow and pursue lifelong careers in journalism.” He continued, “It is such an honor for the Press Club to present awards to the top journalists on Long island each year. From our Hall of Fame inductions to giving out prestigious awards to deserving professionals and students, this is the highlight of our year, and we congratulate all the winners. We hope that the awards competition helps to make the journalism on Long Island even stronger.”
The Press Club of Long Island is one of the largest professional chapters of the Society of Professional Journalists.
Published in News and _Front Page

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 67df43f63313bac60a706772b10f8df2
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
