May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Michael Otero
Co-Editor-in-Chief
The men’s lacrosse team opened up the season as the three-time defending East Coast Conference Champions. They didn’t play like it to start though; losing their first two games by a combined eight goals. “We always play a tough schedule and, this year, we started with the no. 3 and no. 4 ranked teams in the nation,” said head coach John Jez.
“Our program realizes that it’s how you finish, not how you start, that decides who will be the conference champion,” he continued. Truer words were never spoken. Jez’s team heard the message, as the Pioneers hoisted their fourth straight ECC Championship on Saturday, May 7.
Before they could get to the ECC Final though, they had some work to do.
Hours before their conference semi-final victory over no. 13 ranked Mercy College on Wednesday, May 3, the team had 10 players named to the All-East Coast Conference Team.
Representing the first team from the Pioneers was senior attacker Ryan Slane, senior midfielder Anthony Berardis and junior midfielder Anthony Galeotafiore.
On the second team, senior attacker Matt Bellando and graduate midfielder Jeremy Morgan earned recognition on the offensive side of the ball. Defensively, juniors Shane Sweeney and Ryan Stern and sophomore Joey Denaro earned the same honor.
The second-team though was headlined by Matty Beccaris. The senior attacker broke the LIU Post goal-scoring record against Mercy College, (a record that stood for 51 years), and currently ranks in the top-10 in the conference in goals and points this season.
Last, but not least, junior goalkeeper Matthew Liantonio was given the nod for the third team.
As for the game itself, the no. 6 ranked Pioneers upended Mercy College by a score of 12-10. The two sides played about as even as you could through two and half quarters. Tied at eight, the Pioneers scored three consecutive goals in just under a five minute span to grab an 11-8 lead. Scoring were sophomore midfielder Dylan Harned, Bellando and Slane.
Although Mercy rebounded and cut the deficit to one goal, the Pioneers held their ground and got a momentum boost when senior goaltender Adam Winne made an incredible save. Following the save, Slane put a cap on the game with an empty net goal, his fifth of the day.
Slane and Harned shared the Pioneer lead in points, with five apiece, while Bellando also had a solid performance, totaling four points and a hat-trick.
The Pioneers returned to the field on Saturday, May 7, to host the ECC Final against no. 7 ranked NYIT. In the matchup, the Pioneers came out victorious and won their fourth straight ECC Championship, with a 12-11 win.
It was a tight contest until the Pioneers broke away ever so slightly in the second quarter with two goals to lead 7-5. The goals came courtesy of Slane and Bellando. The hosts added another tally after the halftime break to grab their largest lead of the game at 8-5.
Although they looked like they were in control, the Pioneers left the door open a crack and NYIT pounced on the opportunity. The once three-goal Pioneer advantage was trimmed to one at 10-9, but Bellando answered the attack with two counters of his own. He scored twice to inflate the Pioneer lead to three once again.
With the Pioneers up by three late in the fourth quarter, NYIT battled its way back once again and cut the lead to 12-11 with a minute left to go. NYIT had a chance to tie the game and send it into overtime, but Winne made one of his season-high 15 saves to preserve the Pioneer victory.
Bellando netted five goals on just six shots while Morgan had a four point outing in the win. Defensively, Stern scooped up four ground balls and forced two turnovers to help the Pioneer cause.
“They know what it takes to win,” Jez said of his players after the game. The current group of seniors has won four straight ECC titles and will look to continue their winning ways in the NCAA Division II Championship on Saturday, May 14 in North Andover, Mass. The Pioneers earned a no. 3 seed in the tournament and will take on no. 2 seeded Merrimack College. Earlier in the season, the Pioneers dropped a 12-10 game to Merrimack, but have since gone on an eight game winning streak.
Published in Men's Lacrosse and Sports

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: fa5d3f94b575a9cda6b311512d046c8a
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Maxime Devillaz
Editor-in-Chief
On a rainy Friday morning, May 6, LIU faculty, family, and friends crammed under the white commencement tent on the Great Lawn in Brookville to see off the graduates from LIU Post and its sister campuses, LIU Brentwood and LIU Riverhead. Some visitors, to avoid the mud, remained indoors, where three campus buildings televised the spectacle.
In total, 1,115 bachelor’s, 129 combined bachelor’s/master’s, 1,059 master’s and 64 doctoral degrees students graduated, according to the program. LIU’s marketing department stated that graduates came from 29 U.S. states and 26 nations around the world.
The 58th annual commencement ceremony turned out to be slightly different than in past years. For one, spoiled with summer heat at the past two years’ ceremonies, the sun decided not to shed light on the graduates this time. This year, all graduates also walked together instead of breaking up between undergraduate and graduate students, as was the case before.
What remained alike, however, was Senator Chuck Schumer’s address; the infamous graduation speech heard at various universities within the New York area, a teenage love story that changed his life. After graduating from Harvard University, Schumer told the graduates, he was offered a full-ride, one-year scholarship to travel the world, but he ultimately turned it down to be with his then-girlfriend, his first love, who subsequently dumped him shortly thereafter.
“There I was: no scholarship, no trip around the world, no girl. I said to myself, ‘What a loser you are,’” Schumer said. By point of his speech, Schumer believed his experience was relatable. He attempted to show that anyone can “get back up, dust [themselves] off, and move forward.”
Valedictorian speaker
Daniel Kirsanov, valedictorian of the class of 2016, encouraged fellow students not to come shy of their dreams—and to drink a lot of coffee in the process. Humble with the honor, he paid tribute to his fiancée, also a 2016 LIU Post graduate, with whom he has juggled the five years of college.
Mid-speech, Kirsanov said, “She actually has a copy of the speech, in case I would mess up,” to which the audience “awe’d,” as if they had seen a giggling baby. “I haven’t messed up yet, have I?” his face going from calm to nervous in a wink, the audience responding with a wave of laughter.
Kirsanov, who graduated from LIU’s five-year accelerated B.S. Accounting/MBA program, hopes to remain at Ernst & Young where he currently works and progress up the ladder to gain more experience in the area of tax accounting.
Commencement Speaker
David Neeleman, entrepreneur and founder of America’s fifth largest airline, JetBlue, who was presented with an honorary degree, gave the keynote address. Approaching the podium, Neeleman quickly confessed, “I never experienced graduation myself, because I never graduated college.”
The commencement speaker, who has successfully started four independent airline businesses, addressed the importance of altruism. One of the main things he asked prospective employees during job interviews, Neeleman explained, was: How do you treat others who won’t be able to give you anything back? “Most people,” he said, “have a difficult time coming up with an answer to that question.”
Student profiles
Tina Skjonhals, masters in health administration
“I have kept my full-time job as a nurse at a hospital in Norway while studying at LIU Post,” Skjonhals said. Although happy with her position, participating in the Model-United Nations club on campus has widened her perspectives. “My master’s thesis was about the global refugee crisis and healthcare and integration in Norway, and I am hoping to get a job with the Norwegian Directorate of Integration or the Norwegian Directorate of Health,” she said. “And, with time, get a PhD in global health.”
Mijail Quintin, bachelors of Arts in economics
“College has been for the most part all about trust,” Ouintin said. “This journey wasn’t just about me getting to this point in my life so that I may receive praise for my hard work. No, to me, graduating from LIU Post represents an entire body of individuals and communities that have shaped me into who I am today.”
Quintin explained that when putting trust in others, one learns to know more about oneself. “I represent every single friend and family who has ever assisted me in just about everything these last few years,” he said. “From understanding an international economic theory, to what color tie to wear to my first real interview.”
The best part of commencement, for Quintin, was seeing these very individuals by his side. “Commencement was a blur, but walking across that stage will replay in my mind for many years to come.”
Published in News and _Front Page

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: aa8269e904fbffc02e93f63c18d4acc1
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
