May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Quedus Babalola
Staff Writer
Long Island University recognized approximately 3,000 students, 880 of which were undergraduate, from the LIU Post, LIU Brentwood and LIU Riverhead campuses at graduation ceremonies on Friday.
“After four long years, I can officially say that I am a college graduate,” Motun Olusa, a business administration graduate, said.
This year’s commencement took place at the Bethpage Federal Credit Union Stadium, Post’s football field, unlike previous years when commencement took place under a tent on the campus’ Great Lawn.
“Whoever made the decision to move over to the field is a genius,” Keolani Williams, a forensic science graduate, said. “The scenery is beautiful and there’s plenty of space. Usually they start to set up while classes are in session, but with this change there weren’t any disturbances, so I think they should continue to have it on the football field.”
With blue skies and temperatures in the low 70’s, the weather cooperated throughout the ceremony.
The undergraduate commencement started at 10 a.m. with graduates, faculty, and speakers marching in, followed by the national anthem. The program included the presentation of honorary degrees, recognition of the co-valedictorians and co-salutatorians, and the conferral of degrees to the graduates.
Some of the graduates dreaded being asked about their plans for post-graduation.
“I actually hate being asked, only because I really don’t know; all I know is that I’m going to have fun this summer and overall in life,”  Taylor Hill, a broadcasting graduate, said.
U.S. Senator Charles Schumer, who spoke at commencement, reminded the graduates to not let the fear of the unknown deter them on their paths.
“Vindicated is the only word I can think of to sum up the last four years,”‘ Hill said. “It’s been a huge battle, especially this year with all my senior classes, but I made it and can’t wait to see what this door opens up to.”
 
Published in News and _Front Page

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: a5d9fe94a20c07aa44e8d1437a5aa60b
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
