May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Jada Butler
Co-Editor-In-Chief 
Post Theatre Company’s (PTC) production of “Wild Party,” the musical, explores the hardships of love. 
Set in the 1920s, “Wild Party” tells the story of a vaudeville dancer named Queenie, played by sophomore musical theater major Madison Hansmeyer, and her violent lover, a vaudeville clown named Burrs, played by sophomore musical theater major Michael Krebs. 
When their relationship becomes too much for Queenie to handle, she decides to “throw a party to end all parties” and make a change in her life. Jealousy, violence, love and hate are themes that arise throughout the wild night. 
The show comes together with a “swing vibe” under the direction of New York City director, Scott Ebersold, music director Kerry Prep, and choreographer Brad Landers. 
Though set in the 1920s, the
themes and scenarios transcend
time. “‘Wild Party’ deals with a
relationship that has gone terribly
wrong, and in the course of the
evening Queenie needs to make a
choice about what she wants to do
with the rest of her life,” Ebersold
said.

Ebersold doesn’t want the audience to feel out of place in the 1928 setting. “I wanted to make it very immediate for a modern audience, so we have the audience on two sides of the set, and they can see each other through the set so you are always looking at someone from your own time and world while you’re watching the play,” he said. 
He wanted 1928 to feel real and
visceral and “in your face,” which
is why the cast comes out into the
audience and interacts with them
throughout the show.

The story goes deeper than
what is on the surface. The actors
want the audience to understand
the reality of some relationships,
even in modern times.

Hansmeyer, who plays Queenie, said the show is more relevant than ever. “[We want to show] that women always have a choice, and that people always have a choice, and that a relationship can get messy no matter what year it is,” she said. “I think it’s important for people to take away how important every choice can be, no matter how small it feels in a moment, and that it’s never too late to get out of something,” she continued. 
Krebs, who plays Burrs, described his character as the “villain” of the show. “He’s the person who has a devil on his shoulder constantly. 
While he’s in a relationship with Queenie, he’s very abusive over her, controlling. He doesn’t have a sense of his personality, and with that he sort of drives her away,” Krebs said. 
It’s difficult for Krebs to portray the abusive half of a relationship, something he’s never had to experience in himself. 
“But at the end of the day, when
you trust that other person you’re
working with, everything sort of
works out,” Krebs said.

There’s a love square that goes
on in the show between Queenie,
Burrs, Black, and Kate. Black,
played by Gabriel Amato, senior
musical theater major, is a sly,
smooth-talking man from Chicago
who comes to New York and ends
up at Queenie’s party. Throughout
the play, Queenie falls in love with
Black, and that’s where the trouble
begins.

Kate, played by Anna Gwaltney, a junior musical theater major, is a prostitute and the “wild child” of the group. “She’s loud, bold and brassy and is the ‘life of the party’ as she says so herself,” Gwaltney said. 
But Kate has an inner conflict
that makes her one of the most
relatable characters, according to
Gwaltney.

“The truth is that she is very lonely and desperately wants to be loved by anyone she can find, and she takes an interest in Burrs,” she said. 
On the surface, Kate is positive
and bold, but there is a moment in
the show where the audience can
see what goes on inside her mind.
“It’s really just a front. I think that
resonates with a lot of people,”
Gwaltney said.

Amato believes there are many
lessons to take away from the
show.

“I hope [the audience] takes away the right way to love someone, the wrong way to love someone, and the fun way to love someone,” he said. “There’s a lot of variations of relationships and human interaction. It can get raunchy, it can get deadly, and it can get really heartfelt.” 
“Wild Party” will run for two weeks in the Little Theater Mainstage, starting Friday, Feb. 22 at 7:30 p.m. 
There will also be performances on Saturday, Feb. 23 at 7:30 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 25 at 3 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 28 to Saturday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m., and Sunday, March 3 at 3 p.m. Tickets are $15 for general admission, $12 for senior citizens, and $10 for students and PTC members. Tickets can be purchased at the box office or online at tix55.com/ptc700. 
Published in Arts and Entertainment

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: ea6b1e2f3ecb112919450687f842167e
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
Last updated on Apr 17, 2019 
By Jada Butler
Co-Editor-In-Chief
The Black Student Union (BSU) held their fourth annual Black Excellence Gala on Friday, Feb. 15, in the Tilles Center Atrium. The gala is a black tie affair held every year during black history month and features vendors, food, raffles, a DJ, and live entertainment. This year, all funds raised from ticket sales and the raffles benefited the Brotherhood Sister Sol organization, an evidence-based organization that provides educational programming, training, and organizing for social change. 
This year was the first time the gala was hosted in Tilles. The first year the gala was in the Gold Coast Cinema in Hillwood Commons, and the second and third years it was held in what is now the Krasnoff Theater. Students, faculty, administrators and community guests were invited to dress their best and spend a night celebrating black excellence. 
In the first hour of the gala, guests were able to visit the vendors. Most of the vendors were from black-owned businesses, including Black Dove Apparel, Mainly Beauty, It’s All Love apparel based in the Bronx, Parauma Potions, Differeynt Apparel, VMG Photo freelance photography by photography major Vanessa Gardner, Haiti Rocks apparel, Charmaine Mischel Couture and Ardent Candle Company. 
BSU president and junior adolescent education major, Catrina Dasque, said it was important to support black-owned businesses. “When black businesses succeed, black people succeed,” she said. 
Students put together acts to portray members of the black community who represent black excellence. These acts included spoken word, dances, and musical performances. Guests had to guess the figure the acts represented. Among the figures of black excellence represented were Muhammad Ali, Malcolm X, MLK Jr., Madam C.J. Walker, Maya Angelou, Nat King Cole and a few others. 
Dasque said the acts were a critical part of the night. “We go to a predominantly white school, and us minorities have to stick together. That comes with knowing your history,” Dasque said. 
The guests were very involved in the acts, cheering, clapping, hollering and snapping as students who had prepared weeks in advance performed for them. BSU vice president and junior public relations major, performed readings of two poems by Maya Angelou. 
BSU meets every Tuesday during common hour in Hillwood Commons room 221. The club meetings are open for students of every background to attend. For more information on BSU events, students can follow their instagram @liupostbsu. 
Published in Features

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 9ae84a910bb4b73c3818b0947b8cf8a7
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
Last updated on Mar 13, 2020 
By Shannon Miller
Assistant News Editor
Some students living on campus have growing concerns about the cleanliness and maintenance of the Riggs, Post and Brookville Residence Halls. Complaints range from declining restroom conditions to a lingering mold problem. 
The Pioneer has reported on mold and poor dorm conditions for almost a decade, and as students come and go, grievances remain. As students returned to their dorms from the 2018-19 winter break, residents added new frustrations to an old list of unresolved issues. 
Concerns regarding building conditions on campus are addressed by the facilities services department after they’ve been reported; however, if they’re not aware of the problem, they can’t fix it, according to Roy Fergus, head of facilities services.
Post Hall resident and junior theater major, Alyssa Williams, noticed something was missing in the bathroom at the end of last semester. 
“We literally just walked into the restroom to take a shower and were just like ‘oh, our shower heads are gone,’” she said. 
There are three showers in this women’s bathroom, and according to Williams, all of the shower heads have yet to be replaced.
Williams doesn’t mind the missing fixtures because “you actually get water pressure,” she said. Contrarily, her friends are irritated because the water isn’t controlled and shoots out like a hose, making for an uncomfortable, and at times painful, shower. 
Williams is more concerned about the corroded and broken water fountains throughout the building. Only one works and it’s located on the first floor. What was once a shiny stainless steel is now layered in a crusty film. 
“The water fountains are all white,” she said. “They look like milk.” 
Fergus asserted the facilities department was unaware of any complaints concerning the conditions of the water fountains. He said he plans to submit a work order immediately for plumbers to address the situation. 
Brookville Hall resident and junior nutrition major Katie Bendersky avoids showering in her dorm’s restroom. She prefers to use the facilities in the school’s recreation center.
“I shower at Pratt because the showers here don’t even get that hot really,” she said. 
Bendersky is uncertain if the dorm stalls are missing shower heads or if they’re just subpar, but like those in Post Hall, she too described them as painful. 
“Even when I go to Pratt it sometimes hurts and I have to use the handicap one, and I feel terrible about it,” she said, “But this has an actual shower head and I’m not getting pelted by this one’s stream,” she said. 
The facilities department didn’t acknowledge directly whether Fergus or his staff were aware of the missing shower heads. They also couldn’t confirm if complaints exist in the TMA work order system. 
Amara Batakas, a junior criminal justice major who is also a resident of Brookville Hall, hasn’t noticed if the stalls are missing shower heads, but said her friend was relocated from her dorm because of the mold.
 “I’m just going to go on a wild guess here that there’s mold in every building, and they really need to do something about it,” she said.
But sports management major, Jordan Valerius Twyman, a junior who transferred to Post this semester, has yet to see any mold or missing plumbing fixtures in Brookville’s bathrooms. 
When the resident advisors held their meeting at the start of the semester, they advised residents to keep the restrooms as clean as possible. 
“If we didn’t, the janitors wouldn’t clean it for us,” Twyman said. 
In Riggs Hall, some residents are disappointed in the upkeep of the building. Sophomore theater major, Emma Kocar, recalled all of the showers not functioning in a first-floor restroom for the majority of the fall semester, forcing students to shower on a different floor. Although, like others, the mold growing in the bathroom she uses is her main concern. 
“It didn’t really start getting cleaned up until people started complaining about black mold in the dorms,” she said. 
The spread of mold is taken very seriously, according to Fergus, who emphasized that response time is key. When aware of it, the custodial staff is trained to wipe it down immediately using a green chemical solution. 
“Our frontline is our daily staff out in the buildings,” he said. “Anytime we see windows open we want to get them closed. If there is a hole in the wall somewhere, we need to know about it because that’s generally the way we get mold infiltration.”
Despite attempts to control the problem, the black mold is still noticeable in many areas of the bathroom, according to some students. It’s growing in the shower stalls, around the rims of the sinks and on the corroded ceiling tiles. 
“It’s concerning cause it’s mold that really shouldn’t be growing in a bathroom that you’re using on a regular basis,” Kocar said. “We all pay a lot of money to go here and it’s a problem.”
The cost to dorm on campus almost doubles the cost of commuter tuition, making some resident’s wonder where their money goes. Kirsten Kirker, a senior nursing major, resided on campus her first three years. She decided to commute her senior year for financial reasons. She resided in Queens Hall her freshman year, in Brookville Hall her sophomore year, and then Riggs her junior year. Like Kocar, she also experienced problems with the shower stalls in Riggs. 
“The woman’s shower was completely sealed off, so we had to go upstairs and use that bathroom,” she said. 
Fergus advises students to become familiar with their work order request system, TMA, which was put into place last year. TMA provides the facilities department with management software meant to expedite the communication process between them and those requiring maintenance. Once a work order is received, they deploy staff to get it repaired. 
Fergus encouraged all students to utilize the newly implemented system. “You need any service at any time, anywhere, you’re able to put it in the system and we can certainly get to everything within 24 hours,” he said. 
Sophomore student, Sophia Strauss, used TMA when her dorm room ceiling began leaking one night. When mold appeared on their furniture shortly after, they were moved into a new dorm room where they again found mold growing on the bed frames. With help from their resident advisor, a TMA ticket was submitted, and according to Strauss, staff arrived that day to remove and replace the moldy furniture. 
“People do fill out work orders,” she said, “Once the R.A. got involved, they did it all for us. That way we can just have a smooth move back in.” 
When residents submit a work order, they will receive an email back stating their request was received, Fergus said. A second email is then sent when the work order is assigned to a technician, and a final email goes out once the work order is completed. 
By using this new system, according to Fergus, “there is always an ability to know where your work request is in the system.” 
The facilities page of the LIU website doesn’t provide the necessary web links needed to complete a TMA work order; nor does it reflect the newly implicated protocol suggested by the facilities department.
A link to the web-based TMA form is provided in Brookville Hall’s Instagram profile for those who use the social media app. If help is needed completing the form, resident advisors are available to assist students with the process. 
If both are unavailable, students can contact
facilities services at 516-299-2277.

Published in News and _Front Page

This is the in depth reporting that college students like myself like to see. The school should really do something about this. I would really like to see a follow up story to see how the school acts to take care of this.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 349ed3702ceffa8ca12d3f82a5a6d11d
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
