May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Jada Butler
Co-Editor-In-Chief
Students in the class of 2019 from LIU
Post, Brentwood and Riverhead celebrated their graduation at the university’s
61st commencement ceremony at 10 a.m. on Friday, May 10. The undergraduate
ceremony was moved from the Bethpage Federal Credit Union stadium to the Pratt
Recreation Center gymnasium due to warnings of inclement weather.
The ceremony began with the academic
procession lead by Grand Marshal Cara Gargano, the chair of the theater, dance,
and arts management department. The invocation was delivered by Rabbi Yaakov
Gruenstein, followed by a performance of the national anthem by 2019 graduate
Rebecca Engel.
This year’s co-valedictorian Gianna
Boscarino, graduating Summa Cum Laude, gave a moving speech to her fellow
classmates about the steps that brought them to where they are today. “As we
grow older, finding the time to celebrate the small victories becomes harder to
do. We aim high and we set ground rules for ourselves, and while of course this
is not necessarily a bad thing, often times we become so focused on the bigger
picture, that we forget to celebrate all the achievements we make along the
way,” she said.
Board of trustees chairman Eric Krasnoff
was given an honorary degree as a doctor of business. Krasnoff was elected
chairman of the board in 2014, and served on the board since 1992. He also
chairs the the university’s planning committee and is invested in the
university’s strategic plan. 
The commencement keynote address was
delivered by New York Senator Chuck Schumer. The congressman shared fond
anecdotes of his challenges at Harvard, and how his path in life started with
the freshman basketball team, but lead him to pursue politics with the simple
words, “Okay, I’ll do it.” Schumer encouraged the class of 2019 to take every
opportunity that comes their way, as they may never know where it can lead.
The conferring of degrees began with
Post’s college of liberal arts & sciences, followed by the college of
management (school of business, school of computer science, innovation and
management engineering, school of professional accountancy), the college of
education, information and technology, the college of arts, communications and
design, and the school of health professions and nursing. Then the students
from Brentwood and Riverhead were conferred.
The class of 2019 was Post’s last class
to graduate as green & gold Pioneers, as the Brooklyn and Post campuses
will unite in fall 2019 as One LIU under division one sports, changing the
university’s colors on both campuses to a unified blue & gold with a new
mascot of either a shark, falcon, or an eagle. 
Shanice Arthur, who graduated with a
bachelors in psychology, said the change is odd. “It feels weird knowing [that]
when I come back to visit that everything would have changed. No more green and
gold, no more pioneers. It’ll just feel really weird.” Arthur says she will
miss her friends and teammates on the tennis team the most. She looks forward
to pursuing a masters in forensic psychology, possibly at John Jay College. 
Anand Venigalla, who graduated Summa Cum
Laude and served as a student marshal, feels bittersweet. “I’m glad to be a
part of the close of a tradition, and at the same time begin a new part of my
life,” he said. Venigalla is taking a year off to travel, and eventually go for
a masters or law degree. 
Turning the tassel from right to left was
more than just a symbol of transitioning from candidate to graduate; as the
class of 2019 join a network of LIU alumni, they leave behind the final legacy
of the green & gold that has been a part of Post’s identity for 61 years.
Published in News and _Front Page

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: 468336140abac9eb7cc492ce4e9ac48f
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
