May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
Last updated on Apr 19, 2020 
By Sophia Strauss, Staff Writer
Due to recent activity regarding the outbreak of COVID-19, some, if not all, on campus events were canceled or postponed. This list includes, but is not limited to, the Spring Fling Concert, Pratt After Dark and Relay for Life. These events are a staple of the spring semester that are meant to welcome the summer and uplift students as the school year comes to a close.
While all of these events are a fun way to unwind as the weather begins to warm up, for some, the Spring Fling cancelation is a disappointment. “It’s one of the most fun days of the year at post,” Justin DiDonato, junior health science major, said.
This upset comes without knowing who the event headliner would be, while also knowing the fun experience the concert provided in the past.
“It’s a day everyone looks forward to going to. It’s always so fun going to see a concert at the school with all your friends,” DiDonato said.
As drastic changes occur to everyday life, some students decided to finish their semester at home since the campus isn’t offering the same entertainment as it did before COVID-19 intensified.
A lack of events on campus is just a reminder that things aren’t normal right now, according to Franklyn Polonia Jr., a freshman marketing major.
“I’ve decided to come back to campus but it’s not the same,” he said. “Pretty much everything is closed and it’s gloomy and depressing.”
Being a freshman, Polonia said he’s disappointed with how his first year in college is ending.
“I was looking forward to so many events like greek week, spring fling, and most importantly, being surrounded by my friends I’ve made in school,” he said.
The cancellation of these events is somewhat of a letdown to students who looked forward to attending them, but preventing the spread of COVID-19 is a priority above all else, according to school authorities.
Exciting events which draw a big crowd are a threat to the health of students in attendance. Administration is taking the steps needed to ensure safety among students and faculty still living and working on campus, according to a series of emails sent by university officials.
The Promise Office is working on a way to keep campus life active. In the coming week, students will be introduced to the possibility of some virtual events, according to Shawn Washart, a representative from Promise. Although these virtual events may never replace the excitement produced by Pratt After Dark or Relay for Life, and the many other canceled events, bored students can rest assured that the school is working on helping to make the most of the situation.
Published in News and Uncategorized

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: de912b19b9021341846b9a775593d780
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
