May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Andrew Scarpaci, Sports Editor
After going 2-1 in the final conference meet against St.Francis College Brooklyn, the Bowling team secured their spot in the Northeast Conference(NEC) championship. The tournament will be held the weekend of March 19-22. 
The Sharks finished the season with a conference record of 10-11, good for the fourth seed in the NEC and a spot in the tournament. 
Last season, the Sharks also clinched a spot in the NEC Championship. However, the Coronavirus pandemic canceled the tournament just days before it was supposed to be played. 
Head Coach Kayla Jones could not be more excited to get the chance to compete after the devastating announcement last season. 
“Last year was heartbreaking, especially after the huge growth I believe we had as a team throughout the season, but learning from everything that has happened through the last year. I know I am personally grateful to have the opportunity to compete this year,” she said. “Post-season play is a different kind of competition. The win-or-go-home format is challenging, but I am excited for our team to experience it. I think we are very capable of excelling at it.” 
Jones is confident in what her team has to do to have a great showing over the long weekend. 
“The easy bowling answer would be to make spares and consistent shots. But honestly, I think the biggest keys are relaxing, being within themselves together, and staying in the moment,” she said. “Most of them haven’t experienced championships yet, and those that have only did for a year. The main key is to remember what got us to this spot and continue to learn and grow from that.” 
Sarah Orensky is a freshman on the Sharks who has made an early impact. 
“One of the things that drew me to LIU this season was the competitive atmosphere and camaraderie that the team provides,” she said. “I really enjoy being around my teammates/coach and feel like they are always pushing me to be my best. I also love exploring new places, and what better place to do that than NYC.” 
On the final day of action, Orensky bowled a 211. This was the difference-maker in the Sharks game-one victory, where they only won the tight nine-pin matchup 985-976. Orensky was named NEC Rookie of the Week for her performance.
“Being NEC Rookie of the week means a lot to me as it shows me that the hard work I have been putting in on the lanes is paying off,” Orensky said. “I have been able to perform pretty well and keep up with all the other talented athletes in the NEC.” 
Orensky feels her teammates have been fantastic leaders in getting her on a great path to succeed all around. 
“The upperclassmen on the team have taught me a lot about how college bowling works and kind of the do’s and don’ts. They also taught me how to manage my time efficiently to succeed on and off the lanes,” she said. 
Coach Jones is very proud of Orensky’s fast development and her play on the lanes. 
“Sarah’s communication with me is pretty open as to what she is seeing and feeling, and that helps a lot when we are on the lanes from shot to shot,” she said. “She doesn’t really overthink the game and is willing to try anything asked. Her day-to-day energy and competitiveness is a huge asset to our team.” 
Kellie Frain, a senior on the Sharks, is excited to finally get the chance to play in the championship her team has worked for. 
“Last year, we had an impressive NEC showing that unfortunately was cut short, so finally having the opportunity to bowl in championships with the team is such an exciting feeling,” she said. “Through these unprecedented times, we have worked hard, remained resilient and fought through so much together. I have the utmost confidence in us to perform well together and succeed in the NEC Championship tournament.” 
Frain was named an NEC Prime Performer for her accomplishments in the last week of the season and is confident in her ability and her team’s capability to be a strong contender in the NEC Championship. 
“The last NEC Tournament I bowled in was during my freshman season three years ago, and I, along with my teammates, have worked relentlessly to not only advance to the postseason but also win NEC Championships,” she said. “I believe this team is special, and I intend to do everything in my power to bring home that championship ring this season.” 
Senior Emily Cavanaugh has been a top player for LIU her entire collegiate career going back to the Pioneer days. This season is no different, as Cavanaugh looks to claim the NEC Title after all her team has done to get them here. 
“We have been preparing for the NEC Championships for two seasons now and are excited to finally get the opportunity to fight together as a team for a first-place finish and finish what we started last year,” she said.
Published in Bowling and Sports

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: c296b7b2688de2c22ba30be097869030
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Nicholas Rosa, Staff Writer
For the second year in a row, Saint Patrick’s Day will be celebrated differently because of the pandemic. Many cities are still hosting parades, meetings, concerts, and parties, but they are doing it virtually this Saint Patrick’s Day. While others are canceling them altogether. 
Sophomore marketing major Katlin Murphy will miss the traditions of a normal Saint Patrick’s Day.
“Going to the Saint Patrick’s Day parade in the city has always been a family tradition of mine. I heard that they are going to do the parade virtually. It’s not the same but people think it isn’t safe enough to have our normal Saint Patrick’s Day celebrations,” Murphy said. “It’s unfortunate that this will be the second Saint Patrick’s Day without the big parade and celebration we all love, but it’s better to be safe than sorry.”
Saint Patrick’s Cathedral will be streaming their annual Saint Patrick’s Day mass. Which will be available to watch on TV, as well as on their website on saintpatrickscathedral.org/live. The New York City Saint Patrick’s Day virtual parade will be on Wednesday, March 17, on nycstpatricksparade.org.
New York City’s Saint Patrick Day website has the schedule of events, pre-parade events, as well as more information for the virtual parade. Their website states, “Since we can’t be together this year in-person, we hope that you will join us virtually as we honor First Responders and Essential Workers who have made enormous sacrifices this past year during the pandemic.”
Some students are celebrating virtually this year and plan on having video call celebrations. 
“I love Saint Patrick’s Day and my family and friends do too. Instead of meeting up in person, we’re going to have an online party. My family and friends are all going to go on a video call so we can still celebrate together, while still being safe. There’s always next year for the normal parade,” Murphy said.
Freshman film major Sammantha Vesti will also be celebrating virtually. “I usually go to a friends’ party on Saint Patrick’s Day. I’m just going to stay at home this year, like I did last year. I really haven’t been going out much at all. I’m trying to be safe. I still want to celebrate the day, but it will be a much smaller celebration with my roommates. I’m going to put up some decorations and wear green like I always do,” Vesti said.
Senior computer science major Kiera Anderson usually goes into the city to celebrate Saint Patrick’s day with her friends, however she has different plans this year. 
 “We obviously didn’t get to go into the city last year, and we decided to not go again this year,” Anderson said. “It was a hard choice to make but I don’t think we’re at the point where it’s safe enough to celebrate normally yet. A few of my closest friends are still going to see each other this year and have a very small gathering outside, but we aren’t going into the city.” 
The Center for Disease Control (CDC) announced safer ways everyone can enjoy Saint Patrick’s Day this year. On their website the CDC states, “attending gatherings to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day increases your risk of getting and spreading COVID-19. The safest way to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day this year is to gather virtually, with people who live with you, or outside and at least 6 feet apart from others.”
To get into the Saint Patrick’s Day spirit the CDC recommends decorating your house, making Irish-inspired recipes, watching a virtual Saint Patrick’s Day celebration and having an outdoor celebration while wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. 
Published in Arts and Entertainment

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: bc4460eb5166c6b696d16302c6c98dbf
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Shelley Dean, Staff Writer
On Sunday, March 7, Oprah Winfrey’s interview with Prince Harry and the Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle aired. Over 17 million people have watched the interview, and more view it every day.
In this hour and a half tell-all program, Winfrey gave viewers a deep dive into how Markle has been living since she married into the royal family in 2018. Winfrey began the interview with a disclaimer; 
“There’s no subject that’s off-limits,” Winfrey said.
For the first section of the talk, Winfrey sat alone with Markle, who gave her information that has previously been undisclosed. 
“You’re being judged on the perception but you’re living in the reality,” Markle said.
Markle realizes the life of the royals can often seem like a fairy tale from the outside, but the reality is much different. 
One of the most talked-about points from the interview was the fact that Markle felt as though she was not protected once becoming part of the family.
“I’ve advocated for so long for women to use their voice, and then I was silent,” Markle said.
Winfrey was shocked by this, and offered up a question in return; “Were you silent, or were you silenced?” Winfrey said.
Markle confirmed that the latter was true, which came as a shock to many. Social media sites have erupted in content over the interview, with tweets, memes and posts in support of the Prince and Duchess.
People are also racing to support their son, Archie. “There were conversations about how dark his skin will be when he’s born,” Markle said. 
This statement shocked Winfrey as well as viewers and has been the center of the conversation on social media.
Students on campus reacted to the interview as well.
“When I watched it I was really shocked at how they were treated,” Senior musical theatre major Stephanie Jeker said. 
Jeker watched the interview the day after it aired. She had already seen some information on social media about it but was surprised by how serious the situation was once she actually watched it.
“I never thought of the royal family as a business,” Jeker said. 
Jeker quoted many times when Markle would describe how the family and communications team put other issues above her safety and security. 
In one instance, the family suggested Markle continue acting so they would have enough money to pay for her security.
Though Jeker doesn’t keep up with royal drama regularly, she has been invested in this new information and agrees she would likely leave the family as the royal couple did.
“I would probably do the same thing, like do what I want to do and try to ignore all the drama and get out of it and as far away as possible,” Jeker said.
After watching the interview, Jeker says she will likely fact check news she hears on the royals more often now, to ensure she’s getting correct information.
Sophomore english major Clare Coursey is also keeping up with the royals. 
She remarks on a story Markle told about a rumor that circulated in the tabloids, and how the exact opposite situation was the truth. No one in the royal family sorted out the rumors to help Markle.
“It makes you think, in family business where’s the difference between the family and the business,” Coursey said.
Typically, Coursey’s sister is the one to know all the royal drama, so this deep dive is a first for her.
“I’m sympathetic with Meghan and Harry. You don’t deserve to feel isolated by anyone, let alone your family,” Coursey said.
Coursey remarks on how for many, seeing Markle and Prince Harry get out of an unhealthy household is empowering.
“Just to know that this is an option that can happen at some point is very hopeful,” Coursey said.
Though she has enjoyed getting this inner look at their lives, and wishes the couple well, Coursey hopes this new found freedom comes with more privacy.
“I don’t necessarily know if that good fortune includes the press continuing to be part of their lives,” Coursey said.
With a baby girl on the way, Coursey hopes Markle and Prince Harry can grow their family, while only giving the world small updates every once in a while.
Many rumors have spread about Markle, and she hopes this new life with her closest family members will offer her some peace.   
Published in Arts and Entertainment

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: ab9bc8976d64768cddb0380435ec7abd
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
