May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Violet Taber, Co-Arts-and-Entertainment Editor
With classes underway for the 2021-2022 school year, this semester is already drastically different from what students involved in Post’s theatre community have experienced throughout the past year. In order to ensure student’s safety during the COVID-19 pandemic, live performances haven’t been able to take place on campus since March of 2020, which has changed the perspectives of many theatre students on the creation of their art during this time. However, with proper social distancing, mask and ventilation protocols in place, students will be allowed to partake in a plethora of live theatrical performance opportunities taking place throughout this semester.
“I think it’s really important as a community to experience live theatre again after a long hiatus,” senior musical theatre major Angelina Umbriac said. Umbriac is the vice president for the Emerging Student Theatre Artist (ESTA) club for the second year in a row, and Umbriac has already started preparing for this semester’s packed ESTA season.
“First up, we have a “Ryan Scott Oliver Cabaret”, featuring songs from his works “35mm”, and “Jasper in Deadland”. Following that we have “Waitress: the 24 Hour Diner”, a rehearsal process that lasts for just 24 hours and culminates in a one night only performance,” Umbriac said. ESTA will be performing a lineup of shows that includes a musical, a straight play, a drag show, and improv shows. 
“We’ll be producing “The Addams Family: the Musical”, followed by “Virginia’s Gender-Inclusive Drag Batch for the Bitches”, and to close out our season, “Almost, Maine”. You can also look forward to seeing our improv troupe, No Control, performing throughout the semester,” Umbriac said. ESTA is holding auditions for their season virtually, and submissions are being accepted until Sep. 17, students can find more information on the ESTA instagram account @esta.liupost.
ESTA isn’t the only organization on campus where students can find live theatre performances happening throughout the semester. Post Theatre Company (PTC), the theatre troupe associated with the university’s theatre department, will be holding their first live performances since the beginning of the pandemic this semester.
“[I’m] looking forward to getting to see productions in-person [again],” senior stage management major Danielle Zambuto said. Zambuto is involved in PTC’s first show of the semester, “Everybody”.
“I am the production stage manager for “Everybody”, and I’m most excited for the challenge of the nature of the characters,” Zambuto said. Performances for “Everybody” will begin Oct. 8, and students can get tickets at the box office, located in the Little Theater on campus. 
Many students in PTC are excited by the nuanced challenges, and the timely subject matters of the various shows they’ve been cast in.
“I’m excited to be a part of this show because I have the opportunity to shed light onto a topic that makes people reflect on themselves, and how they treat those around them,” sophomore musical theatre major Brecken Hummer said. Hummer is a cast member of “The Laramie Project”, PTC’s second show of the season. The show, which follows the aftermath of the murder of an openly gay high school student in a small town, will begin performances Oct. 29.
“I believe this show was relevant when it first premiered in 2000, and is still relevant today,” Hummer said. 
PTC’s season will also include “Hedwig and the Angry Inch”, a rock musical following the story of Hedwig, a gender non-conforming artist, and “New Play Festival”, where newly written plays will be performed by PTC students. 
Between campy musicals, joyful cabarets, and eye-opening plays, there won’t be any shortage of live theatrical events for Post students to attend throughout the fall semester. And for the students performing in these productions, their highly anticipated return to live theatre has united the theatre community at Post in their shared excitement for what’s to come.  
“I cannot wait to see my friends in the department perform their hearts out and deliver their incredible art for all of us to see,” said Hummer.
Published in Arts and Entertainment and _Front Page

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: fe039cbb34d7b94d9af8a0e0fc969ac7
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Violet Taber, Co-Arts-and-Entertainment Editor
Broadway is often considered the pinnacle of theatre for spectators and actors alike; the shows have the biggest budgets, play in the largest venues and cast bigger talent than any other theatre district in a U.S. city.
However, it’s not spectacle and scale that make Broadway this hub of the theatre community, it’s an unspoken feeling that audience members and performers experience inside the walls of a Broadway House.   
“I remember the feeling of joy and community in the audience; it was a beautiful, unique moment,” sophomore musical theatre major Sarah Gordon-Macey said. “All [of] these strangers around me, they could feel the way I felt.” 
The shared community Broadway patrons experience can even have a large impact on someone attending a live performance. Even people who haven’t seen a Broadway show can still acknowledge the cultural significance of Broadway, and the impactful meaning it has on the theatre community. 
“I [wasn’t] the same person when I left that [show] as I was when I went in,” senior musical theatre major Ellie Lauthner said, recalling her first experience watching a Broadway show. “It made me cry about eight times from start to finish, it’s a completely unique experience.” 
Broadway shows run year round, and each show normally has eight performances a week. It is a rarity for Broadway “to go dark”, and performances in all theaters to be cancelled. In fact, shows haven’t been cancelled for a prolonged period since the World Trade Centers collapsed in 2001. However, on March 12, 2020, all Broadway theaters were shut down in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
“It was sad to see things shut down, it was really hard to stay positive when it felt like the industry I love and aspire to was crumbling around me,” Lauthner said. Many members of the theatre community were incredibly saddened by the shutdown, not to mention the hundreds of working performers who lost their jobs.
Broadway remained shut down for over a year to ensure the safety of performers and theatregoers alike during the pandemic. However, after 471 days, the first Broadway show to play to a live audience opened on June 26, 2021, when “Springsteen on Broadway” became the show that ended the longest shut down in Broadway history. “Springsteen on Broadway” was able to open several weeks before many other shows due to its small cast, which required fewer COVID-19 protocols. Other shows began reopening in early August.
Theatre patrons were thrilled to see the return of Broadway Shows, and the lucky few who have been able to get tickets for reopened shows rave about how special seeing live theatre is after such a long hiatus. 
“In one word, it was magic. True magic,” Macey said, “Sharing those same moments once again with a group of fellow eager theatre goers was like nothing else.” Others who have witnessed Broadway shows since the shutdown share Macey’s sentiment of experiencing magic.
“There is now a different kind of grateful energy in Broadway Houses that I haven’t seen in a long time,” junior musical theatre major Patrick Blanner said. Following the pandemic shutdown, it does seem that the energy surrounding Broadway shows, and the industry itself, are experiencing changes as a result of the pandemic and other events that occurred during the shutdown. 
The theatre community, and especially the Broadway community, have failed to represent and uplift BIPOC voices for years.
“Marginalized communities, especially the BIPOC community, have been groups that theatre has failed to properly support,” said Macey. Although there’s still an enormity of work to be done, the Broadway that has come back after the shutdown has already begun implementing changes to support marginalized communities.
“All of the plays on Broadway right now were written by Black playwrights, which is amazing,” Lauthner said. The Broadway League has already hired a new director of equity diversity and inclusion, and Actors Equity has adopted a new Diversity and Inclusion Retrofit Strategy to better support its members in marginalized communities.
Overall, the return of Broadway has brought with it lots of changes and developments, and members of the theatre community are hopeful for what the future of this industry might look like.
“It feels like the community as a whole has grown stronger together,” said Blanner.
Macey echoed Blanner’s sentiments in her hopes for Broadway’s future.
“I want the Broadway of the future to be somewhere where everyone feels welcome and seen and represented,” Macey said.
Published in Arts and Entertainment

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment



Name*



Email*



Website


 


Δ
Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment: fa69282dbae25fabf963921f16f12b10
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
