May 18, 2023
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
By Amisha Temal, Staff Writer The Equestrian team will progress to Nationals on May 8 to round out their season. On April 8, the team scored second place at the Zone 2 finals in Saratoga Springs, NY.  Athletes Kendra Moore, Tatum Cawley, Kathryn Gargiulo, Sophia Mirando, Julia Bonvino, and Anna…
By Anthony Cavarretta, Staff Writer, and Andrew Scarpaci, Assistant Sports Editor Hedda Walltott, a senior nutrition major from Saltsjo-Boo, Sweden, is one of the top riders on the equestrian team. Walltott qualified for the Intercollegiate Horse Shows Association (IHSA) Regional Show this year, and won novice over fences and flat…
By Ida Ynner Lagerqvist Sports & Photo Editor The equestrian team finished as the high-point team for the fifth time during the fall 2019 season when they hosted a show on Sunday, Nov. 10, at the North Shore Equestrian Center. The day started with the flat class where 14 riders…
By Ashley Bowden Co-Editor-In-Chief The equestrian team will have the home- ring advantage for the first and only time this season on Sunday, Nov. 11. The Pioneers compete at the North Shore Equestrian Center against Columbia College, St. Joseph’s College, Molloy College, Stony Brook University, and Princeton University. “[I enjoy]…
By Myles Goldman Sports Editor With the women’s equestrians regular season coming to an end, 12 of their 28 riders have successfully qualified for the zone championships at the Bergen County Equestrian Center in Leonia, N.J. on April 8. The team finished its regular season on March 18 in Selden, N.Y. at…
By Caroline Ryan co-Editor-in-Chief Alex Rand, a senior health science major and member of the equestrian team, has qualified to compete in the IHSA National Championships in Lexington, KY at the Kentucky Horse Park from May 4-7. Rand learned she qualified for nationals on March 19 at the team’s last…
By Ashley Bowden  Assistant Copyeditor The equestrian team received quite the surprise one day during September 2016 when an unfamiliar scream sounded from inside the stables. This surprise was none other than their beloved team mascot, Ellie; a donkey belonging to team member and junior history major, Jordynn Shaffer. After…
By Maxime Devillaz Editor-in-Chief The equestrian team ended its fall season on a high at home ground on Sunday, Nov. 13. Comfortably looking down at its competitors from its saddle atop in the regional rankings, the team leads by over 50 points ahead of runners-up from Stony Brook. If holding…
By Maxime Devillaz Editor-in-Chief In its first season as a NCAA sport, equestrian tops the region with top placements at every meet throughout the season. The team is now looking to end on a high note at its home show on Sunday, Nov. 13. “We are all very excited for…
By Maxime Devillaz Co-Editor-in-Chief The equestrian team placed first after earning overall high point at the Lloyd Town Harbor Horse Show, hosted by New York University, on Sunday, Feb. 28. The Pioneers are now third in the region. The open flat riders, Alexis Rand and Jessica Sulkers, both notched first…
Official Newspaper of LIU Post
