Once big donors, the Detroit Three are now turning
to the University to gain a technological edge.
4Iiffiid1 pn &xiIa

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, January 21,2009M

michigandaily.com

From D.C. to Ann
Arbor, University
students watch
historic ceremony
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily Staff Reporter
With the world watching, Barack
Obama was sworn in yesterday as the
44th president of the United States on
the west steps of the Capitol Building.
Obama's inauguration, the 56th
in American history, drew millions
of supporters to Washington, D.C.,
and millions more to television sets
around the world. In his inaugural
speech, Obama reassured the coun-
$ try and the world that the problems
facing America would be addressed
methodically and with immediacy.
"Today I say to you that the chal-
lenges we face are real. They are seri-
ous and they are many. They will not
k be met easily or in a short span of
time. But know this, America - they
will be met," he said just after taking
theoath of office.
Obama then called on Americans to
assume a greater role in government
to help rebuild the country.
"Starting today, we must pick our-
selves up, dust ourselves off, and begin
again the work ofremakingAmerica,"
Obama said.
LSA senior Jason Emmendorfer
was in D.C. for the inauguration yes-
terday.
"It was such a big deal," he said.
"History was being made, which is
why we made this trip - to be a part
of history."
School of Music, Theatre, & Dance
senior Liam White, who also attended
the inauguration, said he was there
to celebrate the start of the Obama
administration and the end of the
Bush administration.
"We were delebratingthe change of
regime," he said. "We were so happy
that Bush was over."
See INAUGURATION, Page 7A

(Top) Barack Obama, left, takes the oath of office, as his wife Michelle, holds the Lincoln Bible and daughters Sasha, right and Malia, watch at the U.S. Capitol in Washington yesterday. (Left) People gather in the Blau Auditorium in the Ross School of
Business to watch the inauguration yesterday. (Right) LSA-RC Sophomore Aditi Hardikar (left) and School of Music, Theatre, & Dance sophomore Patrick Fromuth (right) watch the inauguration in the Michigan Union Ballroom yesterday.

City Council passes new
graffiti ordinance
ByLARA ZADE graffiti and the associated costs
Daily StaffReporter will be passed on to the property
owner.
At last night's City Council The new ordinance will shift
meeting, members voted unani- the focus of current city graffiti
mously to approve a new anti- regulations, which target the per-
graffiti ordinance, which requires son who applies the graffiti, not
property owners to remove graf- the property owner, according
fiti from their property within to City Council member Christo-
days of the vandalism but affords pher Taylor, one of the sponsors
them a less strict timeframe. of the proposal.
The ordinance will take effect Some Ann Arbor property own-
in 90 days. ers wanted to amend the current
Property owners now have city graffiti regulations because
seven days to remove graffiti from they felt that other property own-
their property if the city notice ers didn't care enough to remove
wasgiven directly to them or nine graffiti from their property.
days if the notice was mailed. If According to Newcombe Clark,
property owners fail to remove owner of Bluestone Realty Advi-
the graffiti within the given tine- sors and president of Main Street
frame, the city will remove the See GRAFFITI, Page 7A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
After long debate, MSA
passes Gaza resolution

REBULDING A FOOTBALL TEAM
Robinson chosen to
solve defense's woes

ByJENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
For the second week in a row,
issues surrounding the situation
in Gaza dominated a majority of
the Michigan Student Assembly's
weekly meeting in the Michigan
Union.
Amended versions of ttwo reso-
lutions discussed at last week's
meeting concerning the conflict
were brought up for a vote at last
night's meeting. The debate and
subsequent consideration of the
proposals attracted numerous
speakers from the community,
including several students and
a multitude of opinions on the
topic.

The first resolution brought
before the assembly, "Calling for
a Ceasefire in Gaza," authored
by Rackham Rep. Kate Stenvig,
called for a letter to be sent to
The Michigan Daily and The Ann
Arbor News demonstrating MSA's
support for a permanent ceasefire
in Gaza.
Stenvig adamantly defended
the resolution, though it eventu-
ally failed to pass.
"I think that we need to be
taking a stand and saying that
we support a ceasefire and the
withdrawal of Israeli troops from
Gaza, including allowing the pas-
sage of humanitarian aid to the
thousands and thousands that
See MSA, Page 7A

By ANDY REID
ManagingSportsEditor
The Rich Rodriguez era offi-
cially has its second defensive
coordinator.,
Greg Robinson, who was fired
from his head coaching position
at Syracuse on Nov. 17, 2008, two
games before the end of his fourth
season, will take over the Michi-
gan football team's defense next
season.
Robinson replaces Scott Shafer,
who resigned after the Wolver-
ines' 3-9 campaign. Despite having
a defense full of veterans that was
expected to be the team's strong
point last year, Shafer's unit was

For analysis about the hire,
see Sports, Page 8A
largely a disap-
pointment dur-
ing Rodriguez's
first season in
Ann Arbor.
Before his
time at Syra-
cuse, Robinson ROBINSON
proved himself
an apt defen-
sively minded coach, with stints as
defensive coordinator at the Kan-
sas City Chiefs, the Denver Broncos
and the New York Jets - 10 years
See ROBINSON, Page8A


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 31
0 22

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news ii mohiezodailovow anets noom

NEW ON MICHIGIANDAII.COM
Why the Daily wasn't at the inauguration
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S -...................
Vol. CXIX, No. 77 OPINION.................
2009 The Michigan Daily ARTS ...
michigondoiy.com

. .2A CLASSIFIEDS.....................6A
...........4A SPORTS..................... 8A
...........5A THE STATEM ENT..................1B

M

h

Af


0

2A - Wednesday, January 21, 2009

SLIDING TO AN "A"

The drugstore desert

As the state hunkers down
for another long Michigan win-
ter, the need for medicines to
treat everything from a runny
nose to the flu is high. So where
can students and faculty have
their prescriptions filled?
There's always the Village
Apothecary on South University
Avenue, but the list pretty much
ends there.
Maggie Ladd, the South
University business director
said the South University cor-
ridor is the only location close
to campus to have a drug store.
She said it's because there sim-
ply isn't a retail space large
enough for a major drugstore
chain.
Bill Milliken, President of
Michigan's Commercial Board
of Realtors, said commercial
drugstores like CVS Pharma-

ty or Walgreen's would need
a 14,000-square-foot space.
Also, the store would have to
be in an area that could support
high traffic because large drug-
stores generally receive 20,000
to 25,000 customers a day, Mil-
liken said.
Despite these concerns, a
CVS Pharmacy almost came
to the campus area when the
Steve and Barry's apparel store
filed for bankruptcy. Steve and
Barry's was forced to vacate its
large State Street location and
CVS Pharmacy expressed inter-
est in moving into the space.
But the owner of the build-
ing opted for another clothing
store, M-Den, instead.
Tom Heywood, State Street
business director, said there
used to be a drug store at the
corner of Washington Street

and State Street, but the owner
decided to close it down toX
build a new building.
Heywood added there is a .
definite need for a major-drug-
store close to campus, because
it is inconvenient for students
to drive to buy the everyday
necessities that a drugstore .
offers.
Though there still isn't a
drugstore on State Street, stu-
dents can get their prescrip-
tions filled at the University
pharmacy - a part of Univer-
sity Health Services.
Gwen Chivers, the ancil-
lary director of the University
pharmacy, said the pharmacy
offers many different servic-
es and tries to negotiate low
prices that can be passed on to
students. Architecture seniors Dana Ar
VANESSA NUNEZ steps of the Hatcher Graduate
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Multicultural Cookies, guided
career fair stargazing and
WHAT: A career fair featur- hot chocolate

MAX OLLINS/laily
mold and Leah Knight sled down a hill on the
e ibrary. The hill was part of a class project.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.corn
Ct4 9Jidiigan a3ail1
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michiganrdaity.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:sun.-Thurs. tta.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2409
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections .corrections@michigandaily.com
Lettes tathetEditan tohedaily@mirhigandaily.coaw
Photography Department phote ichigandaiy.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.con
734-763-0379
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0ss4
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilavitZ ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS:JillianBerman,TrevorCaiero,JulieRowe,LindyStevens
ASSISTANT N EWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoller, KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIAT E EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Cilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSportsoEditor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Prospei, Clt Rswig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SNARSr E ITOsn RS Jaie Blok, Bradonnr~adis, WhitnePw
ASIN ART EITORS:JshuaBaerAndrew LapDavedeapBen VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, Sam Wolson.
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR0DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF:Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboer Display Advertising Sales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman,ChristiePhillips
Ryan Businski classified salesManager
Clasisifids stant Manager:Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English ProductionDesign Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDaily(SSNO745-967)ispublished MondaythroughFridayduringthefalland nter
ters by studets tstheUnisity oftMicigaon Onoy is aalablefree of hargeto ll redes.
Aditionalwcpiesmybe pickedup t the aly's ofice for 2. Sbsciptisforfall te,cstatig in
Septemberias.malaresi$1.Winter term(Januarythrough Aprii)isssyealongseptember
through April)sis.University afiates are subecttoa reduced subscription rate.On-campus
sbsriptiondorfdalteare$t3 ton esetl teppaid:TheMichigantailyamembert
The AsociatedPncsanTheAssociatediCollegiatePrss.

CRIME NOTES
Golf club swiped iPods stolen
from office from Dude

WHERE: Medical Science
Research BuildingIII
WHEN: Monday at about 9 a.m.
WHAT: An unknown person
stole a golf club from a staff
person's office, between Friday
and Monday, University Police
reported. The office door was
locked when it was stolen. The
club is valued at $100.

WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Monday at about 2:10
p.m.
WHAT: Two iPods were stolen
from an office in the Duderstadt
Building sometime between
Dec. 23, 2008 and Jan. 18, 2009,
University Police reported.
Together, the iPods were valued
at $600.

Fire alarm Son leaves Union
sounded in following
residence hall disagreement

ing representatives lrom
multicultural organizations.
About 60 to 65 organizations
are expected to attend.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Union
Talk on Arab
women and war
WHAT: Anan Ameri, the
director of the Arab Ameri-
can National Museum will
discuss the exhibit, "In
Times of War, Her Untold
Story," which is on display at
Lane Hall.
WHO: Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Room 2239, Lane
Hall

WHAT: The University's
astronomy department will
lead a talk and guided star-
gazing. There will be hot
chocolate and cookies after-
wards.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Tonight from 7p.m.
to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Matthai Botanical
Garderns
CORRECTIONS
" An event in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Cel-
ebrating different winter
holidays) was misidentified.
It is on January 28, 2009.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1The brand-name beer
Speedbal Beer could be
banned in England out of
concern that itpromotes drugs,
BBC.com reported. "Speed-
balling" is the name given to
mixing heroin and cocaine,
a combination, which killed
actors John Belushi and River
Phoenix.
The Discover Student
Card offers students the
chance to earn up to
1 percent cash back on gener-
al purchases. That's $30 back
for every $3,000 you spend.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT, 7B
A woman in Boulder, Co.
was knocked down by a
cow, the Associated Press
reported. The woman was rid-
ing her bike when she encoun-
tered a cow and stopped to let
it pass. Instead the cow pushed
her down and stepped on her
legs. She refused medical treat-
ment after the incident.

WHERE: Mosher-Jordan resi-
dence hall
WHEN: Mondayat about 3:45
p.m.
WHAT: A fire alarm went off
after someone burnt cookies,
University Police reported.
Officers responded and reset
the alarm.

WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Monday at about5:10
p.m.
WHAT: A woman called to
report that her son went miss-
ing after they disagreed, Uni-
versity Police reported. Police
responded and helped the
woman locate her son.


A Tasty
D I op m ra t
3325 Washtenaw Ave
New McDonald's Now Ope
Celebrate the opening of our newest restaurant. There'll be fun,
games, and prizes for everyone. Come in and see our new look.
-- - - - - - - - - - ------- ------ -- - -----
a
NIKALLL MC IA E COIFIFILE W ITH ; Washtenaw Ave
TBL PVRCJA.E OF AWY LARGE
$AJIWICH
Valid at above location only. Not valid in conjunction with any other offer
discount, coupon or combo meal or dollar menu items. Limit one offer per
person per visit. Plus tax if applicable. Price of required purchase posted,
r-9Dnmnuy~oyano---------------------------------;

4

4

BRENNAN LINSLEY/AP
Joe Holland, who lost his son Joseph Holland in the Sept. 11, 2001 attack in New York speaks during a press conference following a
hearing at the U. S. Military Commissions court for war crimes, at the U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, on Monday.
Defense accuses prosecution
of stalling in Gitmo trial

I
I

Prosecutors ask to
put trial on hold
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL
BASE, Cuba (AP) - Guantanamo
prosecutors want to put the war
crimes trials on hold while the
future of the widely criticized tri-
bunals remains in doubt, military
defense lawyers said Tuesday.
Prosecutors want an indefinite
continuance of all pending cases
while President Barack Obama's
administration reviews the military
commissions system and the legal
alternatives for prosecuting suspect-
ed terrorists, said Navy Lt. Cmdr.
William Kuebler, a military defense
lawyer who represents a Canadian
being triedbefore the tribunals.
Air Force Col. Peter Masciola,
the chief defense counsel for the
Guantanamo military commissions,
said the chief prosecutor, Army Col.
Lawrence Morris, called himto dis-
cuss the proposal. Defense lawyers
oppose an indefinite stay and would
challenge the motion if filed, fear-
ing it is a bid to buy time to preserve
the system.
Defense lawyers want to scrap the
Guantanamo military commissions
and have pending charges formally
withdrawn withoutprejudice, which
would allow authorities to refile

them later in a traditional U.S. mili-
tary court martial, a civilian court or
a combination, Masciola said.
The military has charges pend-
ing against 21 men and officials
had said they intended to charge
dozens more.
"The prosecution would rather
see a delay because they want to
keep the cases in the commissions
process," Masciola said. "They don't,
like us, think the commissions pro-
cess is fundamentally flawed."
Navy Cmdr. Jeffrey Gordon,
a Pentagon spokesman, declined
to confirm the defense attorney
accounts, saying: "We do notdiscuss
internal consultations among the
trial parties."
A spokesman for the military
commissions said the chief prosecu-
tor was not immediately available to
comment.
Both sides are scheduled to
reconvene Wednesday for more
pretrial hearings in two cases -
the trial of five men charged in the
Sept. 11 attacks and Omar Khadr, a
Canadian accused of killing a U.S.
soldier in Afghanistan - and "will
continue until directed otherwise,"
Gordon said.
Kuebler, who represents Khadr,
said the military judges are likely to
rejectan indefinite stay. Some defen-
dants might also oppose the idea,

including the Sept. 11 suspects, who
have said they want to plead guilty
to charges that carry a potentia
death sentence.
The proposed indefinite delay;
Kuebler said, seems like an effort to
buytime in hopes offindingawaytc
preservethe system:
"It appears to be an ongoing last
ditch effort to save this disgusting
mess," he said.
The behind-the-scenes maneu,
vering came on the day a military
judge adjourned the war crimes
court just before Obama was sworn
in by noting the future of the com-
missions is in doubt. The hearings
were dismissed until Wednesday
"unless otherwise ordered."
Obama has said he will close
Guantanamo and many expect he
will suspend the widely criticized
,war-crimes trials created by former
President George W. Bush and Con-
gress in 2006.
Obama's nominee for attorney
general has said the so-called mili-
tary commissions lack sufficient
legal protections for defendants
and that they could be tried in the
United States.
Despite the doubts about its
future, military judges decided to
press on with this week's session,
perhaps the last to be held at the U.S.
base in Cuba.

I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 21, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 21, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Kennedy taken to
hospital during
Obama luncheon
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, ill
with a brain tumor, was hospital-
ized Tuesday but quickly reported
feelingwell after suffering a seizure
at a post-inauguration luncheon for
President Barack Obama.
"After testing, we believe the
incident was brought on by simple
fatigue," Dr. Edward Aulisi, chair-
man of neurosurgery at Wash-
ington Hospital Center said in a
statement released by the senator's
office.
"He will remain ... overnight for
observation, and will be released in
the morning."
The statement said the 76-year-
old senator "is awake, talking with
family and friends, and feeling
well."
The statement did not disclose
the tests that were performed on
Kennedy, whose seizure was wit-
nessed by several fellow senators
seated with him at lunch.
NEW YORK
Madoff investors to
get small return
Investing a dollar and getting 10
cents back in return is a bad deal
even in today's market. But recov-
ering 10 cents on the dollar might
be optimistic for investors who
gave their cash to Bernard Madoff.
Moreover, they face a years-long
process to get any money back as
investigators search to find Mad-
off's assets. Dozens of lawsuits
and the possibility the fraud was
committed over decades makes
the chance of recovery even more
difficult.
Madoff has become one of the
most vilified people in America
since news broke Dec. 11 that he
had confessed to running a giant
Ponzi scheme, paying returns to
certain investors out of the prin-
cipal received from others. He's
estimated to have duped investors
out of as much as $50 billion.
Experts agree that the first of
any recovery payments might be
years in the future.
"It will probably take between
one and three years," said Dana
Basney, director of due diligence
and forensic accounting services
for CBIZ MHM, LLC in San Diego.
it could take most of the upcoming
year to trace Madoff's funds and
accounts, he said.
MIDLAND, TX
Bush travels home
to Texas, met by
20,000 supporters
Waving cardboard red, white
and blue "W"s, thousands wel-
comed President George W. Bush
and his wife on Tuesday to their
post-presidential home in Texas.
"The presidency was a joyous
experience but as great as it was
nothing compares with Texas at
sunset," Bush said to cheers from
the crowd of nearly 20,000 as for-

mer first lady Laura Bush stood at
his side. "Tonight I have the privi-
lege of saying six words that I have
been waiting to say for a while - it
is good to be home."
In the hours leading up to his
return, excerpts of some of Bush's
speeches played on a large TV
screen, including remarks he made
to Congress shortly after the ter-
rorist attacks in 2001.
MOSCOW
Russia restarts gas
supplies to Europe
through Ukraine
Russia's Gazprom gas monopoly
says it has restarted gas shipments
through Ukrainian pipelines to
Europe after halting them nearly
two weeks ago amid a pricing dis-
pute.
Gazprom spokesman Boris
Sapozhnikov says EU-led monitors
will track the flow of the gas being
pumped into Ukraine. He says the
gas flow was restarted around 1030
Moscow time (0730 GMT) Tuesday.
Officials say it could take 36
hours for gas to reach consumers in
Europe.
Russia halted gas shipments
to Europe on Jan. 7 as it argued
with Ukraine over 2009 gas pric-
es. Europe gets about one-fifth of
its gas from Russia via Ukrainian
pipelines.
Supplies were restarted after
Russian and Ukrainian officials
signed a deal Monday that doubled
the price for supplies to Ukraine.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama sworn in, promises reform

Millions watch 44th
president take oath
WASHINGTON (AP) - Before
a jubilant crowd of more than a
million, Barack Hussein Obama
claimed his place in history as
America's first black president,
summoning a dispirited nation to
unite in hope against the "gather-
ing clouds and raging storms" of
war and economic woe.
On an extraordinary day in
the life of America, people of all
colors and ages waited for hours
Tuesday in frigid temperatures
to witness the moment as a young
black man with a foreign-sounding
name took command of a nation
founded by slaveholders. It was a
scene watched in fascination by
many millions - perhaps billions
- around the world.
"We gather because we have
chosen hope over fear, unity of

purpose over conflict and discord,"
the nation's 44th president said.
The presidency passed to Demo-
cratObamafromRepublicanGeorge
W. Bush at the stroke of noon, mark-
ingone of democracy'sgreatestgifts:
the peaceful transfer of power.
But a stark transfer all the same.
In one of the new administration's
first acts, Obama ordered federal
agencies to halt all pending regu-
lations until further review - this
after Bush's final weeks raised
heated debate over rushing new
rules into effect on the way out
the door.
Obama plunges into his new job
in earnest on Wednesday, meet-
ing with his economic team and
Iraq advisers while Congress gives
his economic revival plan a going-
over and takes up the nomination
of Hillary Rodham Clinton to be
secretary of state. Her confirma-
tion has been held up for now by
Republican concern over the foun-

dation fundraising of her husband,
the former president.
The ne'w president had been
buoyant and relaxed through the
three days of pre-inaugural festivi-
ties. But he seemed somber as he
stood on the Capitol steps, placed
his left hand on the Bible used by
Abraham Lincoln and repeated
the inaugural oath "to preserve,
protect and defend" a Constitution
that originally defined blacks as
three-fifths of a person. A deafen-
ing cheer went up.
"What is required of us now
is a new era of responsibility
- a recognition, on the part of
every American, that we have
duties to ourselves, our nation,
and the world, duties that we do
not grudgingly accept but rather
seize gladly," Obama said. "This
is the price and the promise of
citizenship."
Tuesday was a day of high spir-
its - jarred by sudden concern

about the health of Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy, a legendary Democrat
who is suffering from brain can-
cer and was rushed to a hospital
from a Senate luncheon after the
swearing-in. "My prayers are with
him and his family and (Kennedy's
wife) Vicki," Obama said. Later, fel-
low Sen. John Kerry of Massachu-
setts said Kennedy was laughing
and joking at the hospital and itch-
ing to get back to work.
On the inaugural parade route,
Obama and his wife, Michelle,
climbed out of the heavily armored
presidential limousine and walked
a few blocks along famed Pennsyl-
vania Avenue, waving to adoring
crowds under the watchful eyes of
security agents.
Obama wove a thread of person-
al responsibility and accountability
through his inaugural address, an
18-minute sermon on civic duty.
A liberal Democrat proposing bil-
lions of dollars in new spending,

Obama nonetheless spoke of the
limits of government.
"It is the kindness to take in a
stranger when the levees break,
the selflessness of workers who
would rather cut their hours than
see a friend lose their job which
sees us through our darkest hours,"
he said. "It is the firefighter's cour-
age to storm a stairway filled with
smoke, but also a parent's willing-
ness to nurture a child, that finally
decides our fate."
Obama's 10-year-old daughter,
Malia, aimed a camera ather father
as he spoke. Michelle leaned onto
the edge of her seat, body tensed
and brow knitted.
"Starting today, we must pick
ourselves up, dustourselves off and
begin again the work of remaking
America," Obama said.
He alluded to the inability - or
unwillingness - of Americans to
adjust to the passing of an industri-
al-based economy.

Stocks fall with
Obama in office

BE CURTIS/AF
A Hamas militant and his two children participate in a rally in Palestine Square in Gaza City, in the northern Gaza strip yes-
terday. The territory's militant Hamas rulers, triumphant at having survived, held victory rallies amid the ruins.
llamas declares victory as
thousands gather in Gaza

Financial stocks see
double digit declines
NEW YORK (AP) - The dawn
of the Obama presidency could
not shake the stock market from
its dejection over the rapidly
deteriorating state of the banking
industry.
Financial stocks, many of them
falling by double digit percent-
ages, led a huge drop on Wall
Street Tuesday that left the major
indexes down more than 4 percent
and the Dow Jones industrials
down 332 points. Although trad-
ers on the floor of the New York
Stock Exchange paused to watch
the inauguration ceremony and
Obama's remarks, the transition
of power didn't erase investors'
intensifying concerns about strug-
gling banks and their impact on
the overall economy.
The market's angst, which began
with multibillion dollar losses
reported last week by Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.,
intensified-after the RoyalBank-of_
Scotland's. forecast that its losses
for 2008 could top $41.3 billion.
The collapse in bank stocks was
swift: State Street Corp. plunged 59
percent, Citigroup fell 20 percent
and Bank of America lost 29 per-
cent. Royal Bank of Scotland fell 69
percent in New York trading.
"The reason we're having a
panic drop is the fact that Europe
is catching our cold, and we could
have deeper and deeper problems
that could require more and more
money. And eventually the govern-
ment is going to have to stop spend-
ing," said Keith Springer, president
of Capital Financial Advisory Ser-
vices. "It's a pretty dangerous situ-
ation tobe in."
The shrinking value of bank
stocks means the financial industry
accounts for less than 10 percent of

the Standard & Poor's 500 index for
the first time since 1992. At the end
of 2006, banks made up 22 percent
of the stock market benchmark.
And the market's retreat Tues-
day means Wall Street has eaten
through most of the advance it
made from Nov. 20 through Jan. 6.
The S&P 500, which had been up as
much as 24 percent, is now up only
7 percent from its November low.
Fears aboutbanking eclipsed the
shift in Washington. Royal Bank of
Scotland's forecast for what would
be the biggest loss ever for a Brit-
ish corporation left investors fear-
ful that government's would have
to nationalize banks to keep them
from collapsing. The British gov-
ernment injected more money into
the struggling bank Monday and
announced another round of bail-
outs for the country's banks.
State Street and Regions
Financial Corp., a bank with
branches primarily in the South-
east, both reported big earnings
drops Tuesday.
Acknowledging the global econ-
omy's woesObama suggested Wall,
Street would see greater oversight:
"Without a watchful eye, the mar-
ket can spin out of control," he said
in his address outside the Capitol.
Obama warned the economic
recovery would be difficult and
that the nation must choose "hope
over fear, unity of purpose over
conflict and discord" to overcome
the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression.
Investors are expecting Wash-
ington will be a central part of the
economic recovery. But the first
hours of the new administration
did little to ease their concerns.
"At this stage, markets in gener-
al and bank investors specifically
are really looking to government
as the way out," said Jack Ablin,
chief investment officer at Harris
Private Bank.

Despite rallies, no
plans to repair $2B
damage to Gaza
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -
Waving green Islamic flags atop
the ruins of Gaza, Hamas pro-
claimed victory in rallies attend-
ed by thousands of supporters
Tuesday, saying it survived Isra-
el's military onslaught despite the
destruction and massive death
toll suffered by Gazans.
Beyond its fiery words, how-
ever, Hamas offered no plans for
rebuilding Gaza, which suffered
some $2 billion in damage during
three weeks of fighting. Gaza's
borders with Israel and Egypt,
largely sealed since the Islamic
militants seized power 19 months
ago, remain closed and are unlike-
ly to open unless the militants
relinquish some control.
Israel has also claimed victo-
ry, but neither side was the clear
winner.
The fighting killed some 1,300

Gazans, the vast majority civilians,
andthousandsofPalestinianhomes
were destroyed. Israel emerged
from the war with relatively few
casualties - 13 dead, including 10
soldiers - but halted fire before
reaching its objectives. No interna-
tionally backed truce deal is yet in
place to prevent Hamas rocket fire
on southern Israel or arms smug-
gling into Gaza.
Israel had withdrawn the bulk
of its forces from Gaza by Tuesday
evening, coincidingwiththe inau-
guration in Washington of Barack
Obama as president. However, the
temporary cease-fire remained
shaky. Israel's air force struck a
Gaza mortar squad after it shelled
Israel, the military said.
Hamas held more than a dozen
victory rallies across Gaza, choos-
ingbombed-outbuildings as back-
drops to underscore its message
of defiance and its claim to have
survived battle against a vastly
more powerful enemy.
Addressing a crowd near Gaza
City's demolished parliament
building, Ismail Radwan, a Hamas

leader, declared: "Hamas-today is.
more powerful." Nearby, militants
held up a huge banner proclaiming
in Hebrew: "Hamas is victorious.
Israel has been defeated."
A few hundred yards away,
U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon toured
the local U.N. headquarters,
inspecting damage from an Israe-
li shelling attack last week. It hit
three warehouses where flour, oil
and other food rations for Gaza's
needy were stored.
Piles of rice, beans and medi-
cine still smoldered Tuesday,
sending white smoke into the air.
Ban said he felt "utter frustra-
tion, utter anger" over the shell-
ing of. the compound and two
U.N. schools, and demanded a full
investigation. As he spoke, the
buzz of Israeli unmanned aircraft
could be heard overhead.
Israel has said troops respond-
ed to fire from militants from the
areas, a claim the U.N. has vehe-
mently denied.
During a tour, Ban was told
that hundreds of tons of food and
medicine were destroyed.

Blagojevich doesn't respond
to impeachment charges

Ill. Gov. missed
2nd deadline to
formally respond
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) -
Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich on
Tuesday missed his second dead-
line for filing formal answers to
an impeachment charge, with a
Senate trial over his ouster now
less than a week away.
The second-term Democrat,
whose criminal lawyers quit his
impeachment defense in protest
of the trial's rules last week, had
until 4 p.m. to file a request to dis-
miss the charge and kill the Sen-
ate proceeding. Had he done so,
senators, sitting as judges in the
trial, would have voted on wheth-
er to grant the request.
As a result of his inaction, the
Senate will presume that the gov-
ernor pleads "not guilty" to the
charge and move toward opening
the historic trial on Monday, said
Toby Trimmer, spokesman for
Senate President John Cullerton.
Spokesman Lucio Guerrero said
he didn't know what Blagojevich
would do.
"He hasn't filled me in on his

plans," Guerrero said.
A newly sworn-in House
voted 117-1 Jan. 14 to impeach
Blagojevich on a charge that he
abused his power as governor.
Blagojevich was issued a Senate
summons that day and had had
until Saturday to file a document
answering charges in the case,
but did not, Trimmer said.
Blagojevich was arrested Dec.
9 on a federal complaint that he
tried to trade government action
for campaign contributions or a
high-paying job, and in one case,
'in exchange for firing unfriendly
newspaper editorial writers. Fed-
eral prosecutors have until April
to indict him on the charges.
Chicago lawyers Ed Genson,
Sam Adam and his son, Samuel
E. Adam, gave up an impeach-
ment defense on Friday, with the
Adams comparing the process to
a "lynching." Genson distanced
himself from such talk but said
the Senate trial's outcome was a
"foregone conclusion."
Genson said he would still
defend Blagojevich on the federal
corruption charges.
Among complaints outlined in
a statement to the Chicago Tri-
bune, the Adams said they were

not given subpoena power to call
and question their own witnesses
at the Senate trial.
But that's the next deadline. By
4 p.m.Wednesday, both the House
prosecutor and the defense must
file all requests for subpoenas of
witnesses and documents, along
with requests for entering evi-
dence, including evidence not con-
sidered by the House committee
that recommended impeachment.
Both sides then have until 10
a.m. Saturday to respond to the
other side's requests for subpoe-
nas and evidence. TheSenate will
decide what evidence and subpoe-
nas are allowed.
Blagojevich was in Chicago's
federal courthouse Tuesday,
eludingthree reporters who were
waiting for him as he slipped in
and out of the building. One of
his attorneys, Sheldon Sorosky,
confirmed that the governor was
in the courthouse but did not say
why.
A person familiar with the rea-
son - who spoke only on condi-
tion of anonymity because the
information was confidential -
said the governor was there to
provide officials with a fresh set
of fingerprints.

i

t


4A - Wednesday, January 21, 2009
The 7 Jid4ian &i3 J
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position of the Daily's editorial board. All othersigned articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T E DAILY
Keeping a promise
Reducing college funding is a bad choice for state legislature
After a few months of breathing room, it looks like the Uni-
versity's funding is back on the state legislature's chop-
ping block. With deficits anticipated in Lansing, the state
legislature has started looking for costs to cut, and funding for the
University is a serious target. In such difficult economic times,
spending cuts will be necessary to balance the state's budget, but
these cuts shouldn't be aimed at education. Reducing funding to
public universities will devastate many students' ability to pay for
college, and by doing so, negatively impact Michigan's economy.
To invest in the state's future, the legislature needs to maintain its
current levels of funding for higher education in the form of schol-
arships and direct funding.

)pinion

4

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Starting today, we must pick ourselves up,
dust ourselves off, and begin again the
work of remaking America."
- Barack Obama, the 44th President of the
United States, in his inaugural address in Washington, D.C. yesterday.
ELAINE MORTON | NATURE CALLS E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
h-lW lortj dliwe l~a yu tn' aready be
war + eSe 'ghiue e Coplani3 about
wasing letici {L3 h on!ev k1a iyofl O'.
~Chrohdtm 5 dor..- 1 9 Ol .AuAr
0--
Furries have feelings, too
A s students at a progressive fetishes. As long as you're not hurting self-esteem from being ostracized
University, most of us take anybody, it doesn't matter whether you for years. Their forums are filled
pride in our so-called toler- masturbatetopornoreroticdepictions with topics such as "What's wrong
ance. We're happy of refrigerators. That's tolerance. with me?" and "Serious Depression -
to tell you that we But red flags start going up when Life-threatening." The Otherkin FAQ
respectyou no mat- one realizes the phenomenon isn't has a section describing the longing
ter what your sexu- isolated. There's been surprisingly to return to a special "home" where
al orientation, race little research done on the furry pop- they feel accepted. It's been reported
or religious beliefs ulation, but I estimate there might be that suicide is disturbingly common
may be. Yet many upwards of 100,000. On the popular in the "dragon community."
of us still shun art website deviantart.com, for exam-
"that weird kid" ple, 85,776 results come up for "furry,"
- you know, the EILEEN and that's only when restricting it to
socially awkward the special anthropomorphic section.
person that's hov- STAHL A "furry convention" in Pittsburgh R
ered around since boasted over 3,000 attendees, and w ho identify more
middle school. It only the most committed furries go .
may not seem like much at the time, to conventions. w ith anim als.
but enough shunning can push some- It's because of the Internet that
one over the psychological edge. groups like this can form. People have
Given the lovely, intelligent and a desire for comfort, and online, it's These groups are coming onto the
overwhelmingly modest social but- easy to find people who can relate tq media radar and are usually a sub-
terfly I am now, it may surprise you to your experiences and tell you you're ject of ridicule, but I think we should
learn that I was once "that kid." Never okay. The problem is, that sometimes have more compassion. These people
knowing when to keep my trap shut, you're not, and people who have been need someone to talk to. They don't
I elected to do most of my socializing hurt enough can come to believe just be ome asuuned because ey're
on the Internet. It was there that I ran about anything. furries, but become furries because
into a number of bizarre groups who For example, furries who call they're shunned. These are people
had made the same decision. Many of themselves "Otherkin" take it a step who have given up on ever fitting in
their members were adults, and the further and purport to be fantastical with humans and have joined a fanta-
majority were far worse off than me. creatures, claiming they've always sy reality online that only reinforces
One of the most prevalent of these felt "different" fromhumans. They're their isolation. While they claim this
groups is the furries. You may have reincarnations of faeries, unicorns, coping mechanism is keeping them
heard of them - these are the people elves, and especially dragons. To "more sane," in the end it prevents
who identify as animals more than their credit, Otherkin are aware that true healing. The only way to recover
humans- think Disney's Robin Hood what they believe in might be hard from low self-esteem - like I did - is
or Sonic the Hedgehog - and cre- for others to swallow. Their response to come to love yourself and every-
ate vast online communities. They is that as long as you can behave as thing that comes with it.
create anthropomorphic characters a functional member of society, it Enough ostracizing can cause the
known as "fursonas" to represent doesn't matter whether you consider lifetime psychological damage you
themselves, which they draw pic- yourself a human or a creature from see in 40-year-old guys who believe
tures of, write fiction about, and role another planet. they're something called "star drag-
play. Most of this stuff is so heavily Again: I agreebut in reality,Other- ons." So while you don't have to be
sexualized it stops being creepy and kin are overwhelmingly not function- best buddies with the weird kid,
becomes hilarious. al. I'll be the first to admit that they're please show him or her some respect
Oddly enough, though, that part usually kind and intelligent people. - lest you unleash their inner beast.
doesn't bother me much. Sure, being However, they're psychologically
turned on by Chip and Dale is a little unhealthy; the majority are socially Eileen Stahl can be reached
weird, but alot of people have strange awkward and have cripplingly low at efstahl@umich.edu.

4

4

4

Michigan's Legislative Commission
on Government Efficiency - a taskforce
charged with finding ways to save the state
money - recently commissioned an educa-
tion study group to find costs for the state to
cut. Last week, the group released a report
outlining its recommendations. One such
recommendation was to eliminate the Mich-
igan Promise Grant Program, a major source
of the University's scholarship aid. Another
idea was an across-the-board.cut 7.1 percent
in funding to state colleges and universities.
The group also suggested some even less via-
ble options, like privatizing the University of
Michigan, which would actually require an
amendment to the state constitution.
These ideas range from disastrous to
absurd. And none of them take into account
the place higher education has in Michi-
gan's transforming economy. Canceling the
Michigan Promise Grant Program, which
accounts for 40 percent of all scholarship aid
to students at the University of Michigan,
would hamper the post-secondary educa-
tions of many students. As tuition continues
to increase each year and loan-based aid
becomes increasingly scarce, scholarships
are necessary to make college more acces-
sible and affordable. Though the abolition of
the program would mean short-term savings
for the state, countless students won't be able
to geta college degree without the assistance
of the scholarship program.
The proposed 7.1 percent cut in funding
to public universities is equally grim. The

University has had to raise tuition the past
few years even as state funding increased.
A decrease in funding would result in an
even higher tuition hike to offset the mas-
sive amount of lost revenue. The high cost
of tuition is already making college an
impossible dream for some students - even
higher costs would deter potential college
applicants from even applying to the Uni-
versity and stop many who were accepted
from attending.
But decreasing funding to higher educa-
tion affects more than just students who
depend upon scholarships and reasonable
tuition. As the state's economy reduces its
emphasis on heavy manufacturing, it will
need workers with new talents and skill sets.
Institutions of higher learning provide these
skills and are necessary for creating and con-
tinuing economic growth into the future.
To protect such an important component
for the state, lawmakers need to trim the
budgets of other discretionary items. There
are areas of the state budget than can bet-
ter absorb cuts - Michigan's dysfunctional,
costly corrections system is probably one of
those areas.
As money dries up in Lansing, it's true that
the state legislature will have to make tough
decisions on how to re-allocate precious dol-
lars. But devastating funding for education is
not an acceptable way to cut spending. This
state simply can't afford to stop investing in
public universities that will be responsible
for developing tomorrow's workforce.

4

4

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

I

L ET' TER 1 T0T 1 -EDT1"S EN
Respecting others should
be way of life for students

ID LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
an event with you on campus, please email us at
expectrespect@umich.edu.
Amber Zarb
The letter-writer is a member of the Expect

JEREMY LEVYI VIEWPOINT

TO THE DALY: Respect Student S
It is no secret that Barack Obama's election
as the first African American president in U.S.
history has vast implications for us as individu- The Dail
als and as a society. For this reason, the Expect
Respect Student Steering Committee encour- remember
ages students to take some time to reflect on
their own personal beliefs while respecting
others. Reflecting on what is important to you TO THE DAILY:
in the present and in the future is a way to build Amy Munslow
energy for social change. ment inartificial b
But it is also important to remember that concise and infor
while we pause to celebrate this historic event, artificial bone ma
other events are going on around the world. type of article tha
The violence in the Middle East, the struggling the Daily. As the in
global economy, and the troubling housing and keep pace with ex
unemployment rates in the U.S. are just a few ic knowledge, it b
examples. It is our hope that the University to report on new
community will be respectful of each other's vigor and a critica
political viewpoints and feelings regarding the Despite their i
start of the new presidential term. events occurs wit
It is our individual responsibility to be aware print. There's note
of our own role in promoting a positive and safe articles on the Da
campus climate. If you feel that you have been concerned with .
a target of hate or bias, please know that there and sexual orien
are confidential resources available to you on in the make-up o
campus. Go to http://www.urespect.umich. written. But the t
edu/ and view the "reporting section" of hate/ reflect the Univer
bias incidents. ceptable to leavec
If you are interested in joining the
Expect Respect Student Steering Com- Arikia Millikan
mittee or would like us to collaborate Alum

teering Committee.
's articles should
the 'S'in LSA
's article on a recent develop-
bone marrow research was both
mative ('U' prof helps develop
rrow, 01/16/2009). It was the
t I would like to see more of in
habitants of the world strive to
ponentially advancing scientif-
ecomes increasingly important
developments in science with
1 eye.
mportance, coverage of these
th a relatively low frequency in
even a way to search for science
ily's website. The Daily seems
making sure all races, genders
tations are represented both
of the staff and in the stories
opics the Daily covers should
sity as a whole, and it is unac-
out the science community.

Making sense of Gaza

I

As an American Jew, I have been taught for my entire
life to support Israel in every situation without question.
My old Hebrew school teachers would probably say that
they taught students to be critical of both the Palestin-
ian and Israeli regimes, but I don't think it's a coincidence
that those teachers rarely, if ever, presented any of Israel's
decisions as wrong. I have spent nineteen years surround-
ed by pro-Israeli messages and images. I remain proud of
Israel, but only recently have I come to terms with how
limited my perspective has been. It is my hope that others
who have grown up in pro-Israel or pro-Palestine house-
holds can realize the same thing.
Due to the recent surge of violence in Gaza, campus
organizations like the pro-Israel Initiating Dialogue,
Education, and Advocacy and the pro-Palestine Stu-
dents Allied for Freedom and Equality have held rallies
and organized other events to raise awareness on cam-
pus regarding the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Frustrat-
ingly, both sides promote rigid, one-sided views of the
issue, which leads to an even greater gap between the two
groups when they should be reaching for mutual under-
standing.
The fact that there has been violence ever since Israel
was created serves as evidence that no one - Israeli, Pal-
estinian, or otherwise - has yet grasped the full complex-
ity of the issue. And although Israel decided to end their
campaign on Sunday, I guarantee that this past month's
violence in Gaza will not be the final skirmish. As long as
each side expects the other to accept full responsibility,
peace in Gaza will not be possible.
Propaganda on either side of the argument is preva-
lent both on and off campus. Lately, the catchphrase that
seems to have attracted the most attention is "innocent
civilians." Depending on which side they support, Face-
book users can donate their statuses to either display how
many Palestinian civilians have been killed or how many
rockets have been launched at Israelis in the recent Gaza
skirmish. Pro-Palestinian students have set up vivid dis-
plays of wounded Palestinians to attract support. In the
e-mail I received about the Israel rally, the sender used
"innocent civilians" twice in the first sentence. These
images and slogans provide sad reminders of the number

of victims in this war. But, more importantly, they are
also ploys intended to convince spectators of the oppos-
ing side's cruelty. Appeals made about innocent civilians
are frequently one-sided and avoid the harsh truth that
both Hamas and the Israeli Defense Forces kill innocent
civilians.
In promoting their interests, pro-Israeli and pro-Pales-
tinian organizations frequently deny their own role in the
conflict and place complete responsibility on the other side.
SAFE's recent viewpoint in the Daily (An appeal for human
rights, 01/15/2009) states, "Any ceasefire is destined for
failure as long as Israel and the international community
refuse to examine the core of the conflict." Similarly, the
Israeli government's assurance that it is taking every pre-
caution it can to protect Palestinian civilians does not seem
to be convincing the rest of the world. Every student who is
concerned about the situation in Gaza needs to understand
that attempts to place blame on one side and not the other
are oversimplifications.
All those who are hoping for a solution to this conflict
need to learn as much as they can about both the Palestin-
ian and Israeli viewpoint. As astarting ground, pro-Israel
students need to understand that supporting Palestine
is not synonymous with supporting Hamas, and that
although the Israeli government says it's doing all that
it can to prevent the deaths of Palestinian civilians, this
statement may not be viewed as adequate justification for 4
the large civilian death toll. Similarly, pro-Palestinian
students need to understand that Israelhas good reason to
believe that self-defense is necessary in Gaza, that nego-
tiating with an organization such as Hamas is extremely
difficult and that Israel has a right to exist because this
world needs a Jewish state.
I may not be an expert, but I do know that those who
are concerned need to educate themselves and engage
in a respectful dialogue. Students need to be critical of
the information they receive. On a campus with a diverse
population of pro-Israel and pro-Palestine students, I
think the most important thing any of us can do is talk
to each other.
Jeremy Levy is an LSA freshman.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers with
an interest in campus issues to become editorial board members.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emma Jeszke,
Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Emily Michels, Matthew Shutler,
Jennifer Sussex, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 21 2009 -5A

f
i

ALBUM REVIEW
A.C. Newman's
consistent
inconsistency
By MATT EMERY Despite the low points, even a
DailyArts Writer poor album from A.C. Newman
beats the tar out of most other
"There are maybe 10 or 12 / so-called "bad" releases. Since he
Things I could teach you / After has such aplomb for cranking out
that, well, you're dizzyingly successful singles, Get
on your own / Guilty still contains a few tracks
And that wasn't that are on par with what he's
the opening capable of offering. Even with its
line / It was the A.C. Newman awkward opening lines, "There
10th or the 12th Get Guilty are Maybe Ten or Twelve" rattles
/ Make of that Matador out of the gate with a thundering
what you will." stampede of sound and settles
It wouldn't be down into a standard of self-reflec-
fair to make those opening lines tive, finger-plucking melodies.
the entire premise for Get Guilty, "Like a Hitman, Like a Dancer"
A.C. Newman's first solo recording finds Newman at home, bopping
infiveyears.Butwhetherhe knows along with a catchy chorus and
it or not, those jumbled, confus- better-than-stock drum moments
ing lyrics, which kickoff album- that hint to a man who still has
opener "There are Maybe Ten some life in him after all.
or Twelve," are sadly fitting. Get But maybe the biggest ques-
Guilty, unlike its predecessor, the tion for Newman is: Why put out
oft-forgotten yet perfectly jovial another solo album now? Was he
and pop-centric The Slow Wonder, really hurting to get a lot of these
lacks just about everything that songs out on his own without The
made his previous solo effort such New Pornographers? Well, prob-
a memorable pop artifact. ably. It's fair to chalk the record
Instead, Get Guilty feels tossed up to the fact that most of the
together, featuring erratic musical New Pornos are too busy doing
pieces with qualities ranging from their own things. "Young Atlan-
stale to instantly lovable. It's not tis" needs Neko Case's dominating
surprising, since the same prob- voice, not Newman's high, lovable
lems have started to hound The fluctuations. And even "The Col-
New Pornographers (which New- lected Works" could be taken to
man fronts as Carl Newman). another place with Dan Bejar or
For what it's worth, The Slow John Collins.
Wonder never really felt like a If we're looking for test cases,
whole album. Instead, it was an there's no better place than 2007's
exquisite collection of instantly Challengers, on which Newman's
memorable, unforgettable singles. lackadaisical songs were rescued
Songs like "On the Table" and by the rest of the band. So when a
"Miracle Drug" had vibrant ener- song like "Submarines of Stock-
gy that showcased a talented song- holm" - not a terrible song by any
writer and musician in his natural means - shows up on Get Guilty, it's
element. Slower tracks like "Better not unrealistic to think it would've
than Most" got by on memorable been even better with a dose of
percussion and fluttering guitar Bejar singing the "la Ia las" or Case
lines. Get Guilty has some of those dueling Newman on vocals.

"Uh oh. This is going to be really bad for my hypersensitive nipples."
Reviv al] ii
Mickey Rourke attempts to
resurrect his career in a role
that mirrors his life
BY NOAH DEAN STAHL [DAILY ARTS WRITER

high points (the jangling, higher
energy "The Palace at 4 AM" for
one), butmostlythe albumremains
stagnant and stretched, revealing
a man who really doesn't know
where some lines should go and
possibly doesn't even care.
Get Guilty stands for the oppo-
site principles of The Slow Wonder
and proves that Newman might've
left his quick-hitting, spontaneous
self in the rear view mirror. Tracks
like"The Changeling(Get Guilty),"
with its dull waltz beat and "Get
guilty, kid" refrain are drowsy at
best. "Elemental," with its sooth-
ing guitar progression, yearns for
a shot of caffeine, a quicker pace
and at least some sense that New-
man wants to sing the damn song.
Aside from the entrance of the
faux-organ keyboards, the song
drags. "All of My Days and All of
My Days Off" trudges along in
three feet of snow; echoing pat-
terns of "All of my days" might
make the song catchy, but never
quite for the right reasons.

Lacking in gusto,
but marginally
successful
nonetheless.
Maybe Get Guilty would have
been better off as a New Pornog-
raphers's album, but either way,
A.C. Newman just seems a bit out
of his element here. Sure, a bunch
of worthy singles pop up, but that's
not what we should expect. It's
understandable that he doesn't
exude the same energy he did ear-
lier in his career, but it's a shame
because his best came with that
sort of gusto. Maybe his opening
lines aren't quite what they should
be, but that's the least of his prob-
lems now.

Barry Levinson's 1982 classic
"Diner" is an
ode to youth -
a reflection on
youngadulthood
and inevitable The Wrestler
responsibility. Atthe State
Mickey Rourke Fox searchlight
stars as Boogie,
a delinquent
greaser who prefers Elvis to
Frank Sinatra and Johnny Mathis.
He's the bad boy who reluctantly
swallows his pride and achieves
redemption. While the movie fea-
tures a great cast of loveable goofs,
Rourke is Levinson's champion of
defiant juvenescence.
This young, ceaselessly charis-
matic leading man with an effem-
inate touch is definitely not the
same character that leads in Dar-
ren Aronofsky's "The Wrestler."
In the new film, Rourke plays
washed-up has-been Randy "The
Ram" Robinson. Robinson is old,

beaten, scarredi-and tired To sayt
the years haven't been kind to him
would be a gross understatement.
That old cliche doesn't even begin
to paint the picture of the pitiable
character Rourke inhabits.
If "Diner" is about holding onto
the past as a nostalgic reflection,
"The Wrestler" is a picture about
the inability to overcome the past.
Rourke's Randy is a professional
wrestler 20 years out of his hey-
day. The fans who once came in
droves to watch him are now far
-fewer in number, gathering in
hotel banquet halls and commu-
nity centers. He. remains intui-
tively in the guise of Randy "The
Ram" - his real name is Robin
- because he can hardly face the
real world.
One of the most intriguing
facets of Rourke's performance
is the undeniable and unsettling
parallel between the down-and-
out wrestler he plays and his own

1la thie ring
life. Randy is a commiserative total control and allowing the
soul who tries to make a profes- actors to bring his movie to life.
sional comeback while simultane- It's a mature film that suggests
ously forging important personal great things from Aronofsky in
connections with his estranged the future.
daughter (Evan Rachel Wood, Additional recognition must
"Across the Universe") and the be attributed to the hand-held
stripper for whom he has fallen camerawork from cinetatogra-
(a rharacteristically top-notch pher Maryse Alberti. The rough,
Marisa Tomei, "Before the Devil fractured feel of the film perfectly
Knows Your Dead"). Rourke -the ;suits Randy's story
actor was a star in the '80s who What prevents "The Wres-
made a series of poor personal tler" from being the year's best
and career choices that lead to film - though there's no question
his near disappearance from Hol- that it is great - is its inability
lywood. With "The Wrestler," to evoke the emotional response
Rourke attempts to overcome the it's capable of. Aronofsky and
years of adversity that now define Rourke work together to reveal
his career. It's hard to say whether the inner anguish of the human
he will ultimately prevail, but he spirit. It's heartbreaking, yes, but
will surely leave a mark with this the script from Robert Siegel has
incomparably powerful perfor- a few too many conventions and
mance. the film doesn't quite transcend
"The Wrestler" also marks an the screen. That said, "The Wres-
important moment in the career tier" is still a remarkable film with
of Aronofsky. The critical suc- touching performances.
cess of his 1998 "Pi" made him Rourke has come full circle
an indie wunderkind. His 2000 from "Diner," emblemizing both
film "Requiem for a Dream" has youth's reluctance to give way to
enjoyed cult status since its ini- responsibility and the sobering
tial release, while "The Foun- disappointments of wasted adult-
tain," an ambitious 2006 triptych hood. Whether "The Wrestler"
about immortality, alienated far is his true resurrection or not is
more fans than it attracted. With unclear. What is certain, however,
"The Wrestler," Aronofsky takes is the strength of this role and its
a half-step back, relinquishing fidelity to a broken man.

TV REVIEW
Even Swayze can't save 'The Beast'

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
For the Daily
Apparently, the people at A&E
thought that casting a big-name
actor and giv-
ing him a missile
launcher was all
it would take to TM Best
create a success-
ful high-action Thursdays
crime show. They at10 p.m.
were mistaken. A&E
A&E's new
action drama
"The Beast" fails miserably. Nei-
ther exciting nor clever, the show
is yet another indicator of Patrick
Swayze's ("Roadhouse") status as
a has-been.
Swayze plays Charles Barker,
an experienced undercover FBI
agent whose unorthodox investiga-
tion methods - yes, the shoot first,
ask later gag, again - are frowned
upon by his colleagues. For an
undisclosed reason, Barker selects
young Ellis Dove (Travis Fimmel,
"Restraint") to be his partner and
he trains him in his reckless tech-
niques. Despite Barker's harsh
treatment of his apprentice, Dove
comes to respect and even admire
him. But Dove's loyalty will be
tested this season as the FBI enlists
him to watch and report Barker for
illicit behavior.
In the premiere, Barker and Dove
go undercover to expose gangsters
accused of weapon smuggling. This

plot-line takes up a large portion
of the show, even though it's never
made clear who these gangsters
are, why they're smuggling weap-
ons or how the FBI knows about itL
"The Beast" tries relentlessly to
be suspenseful and shocking, but
it ends up vague, confusing and
not even remotely entertaining.
When Barker pulls out his gun in
the middle of a park and threat-
ens a woman, it's unclear who the
woman is, how she's involved in
the story and why he's threaten-
ing her. Similarly, when Dove has
to coerce a man into giving him
the launch codes for an oversized
rocket launcher, there are no clues
as to why he has the launch codes
or how the ordeal results in them
doing drugs together.
While it may be difficult for

$100 Off
*ifyouenrollbeforeFeb 4thforaoursestartingin
April or May
Course Starts:
Canb " -
Feb P, *,11*
a .2evew i PricetoReviwlc
anut 0011s0y& ors

"I'm on my way tothe hospital. Mickey Rourke lost a nipple in a wrestling match.

produce
tion is1
an houi
excuse l
Lon
a
produce
produce
would b
of une:
drug ab

rs to decide what informa- could actually follow.
vital enough to include in The absence of any background
r-long program, this is no story could've been mitigated
for the confusion that the by some bad-ass action scenes.
Sadly, the little action that does
appear is stale and comes at ran-
dom moments. The only notable
ig, drawn-out instance of action occurs when
Swayze shoots a missile at a parked
nd painful. car to demonstrate to the smug-
glers that he couldn't possibly be
an undercover FBI agent. But this
brief minute of epic weaponry is
rs of "Beast" allow. The surrounded and diluted by cheesy,
rs must've decided viewers macho dialogue and a sad attempt
e satisfied with long scenes to create a moral struggle. The
xplained gun-waving and excitement in these moments isn't
use rather than a plot they worth the pain of sitting through

the rest of the show.
"Beast" suffers from a serious
identity crisis. It's too over-the-top
and melodramatic to be considered
a serious action show - the sound
of squealing tires plays whenever a
car appears. Yet the drama justisn't
hard-edge enough for people to
overlook its unrealistic and poorly
developed plot.
It's unfortunate that Swayze
chose to involve himself in this
show given its complete lack of
promise. We can only hope that
the end of Patrick Swayze's career
will be quick and painless, unlike
the experience of watching "The
Beast."

I


6A - Wednesday, January 21, 2009
the michigan daily

CLAsszFIEDs

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I

parking
025
PARKING SPACESAVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825. WilsonWhife
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on M A N'
central campus. 734-741-9300.
PRKG SPACES 2 blocks from B-
School at Hill and Church. $75/mo. 611 CHURCH;
734-260 4003.
BRMND NEW
PRKG. SPOT AVAIL. on central cam-
nus. t aA.4neAi ...A....

for rent
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
*331 CATHERINE*: TWO 3 bdrm
apartments or combine for 6 bdrm
house. Contact Varsity Management
for more info. 734-668-1100.
[ BRM.&EFF. APTS
$500-$6001
IEPT. 20091
PROPERTIES
74-663-5609
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
*MAY - MAY 2 BEDROOM*:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
104 e 
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarbraparlments.ne 
or Visit uS at
1700 Geddes Ave.

WilsonWhite
M AN A G ENT
We Have Moved!
Yes, we finally
moved onto
campus; you can
now find us next
to Pizza House
Wilson White
Management
Campus Office
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich
48104

WilsonWhite
M! A N A G E M E N T
401 East
Madison
Frawd New () G
Fedroow + stafd
?prtwhvgts for FRL
20q, corer of
paczIrd.FL ooy ploVts
ovaU1 hbe.
.$3,995/K44Avtk


you
(Er

"rent aIwo bedroom apartm
.ds Friday, January 16, 200

We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
ww.universitytowers-mi.com
University
Tower

lent
91

:r

i

!!HALF MONTH FREE!! !!Avail.
Fall 209!! (Sign up before Jan. 31st
and get one half mu. free on 2 Mdnt.
apts.-up to $700 off.)
I & 2 bedroom apts. (can live 2 or 4
people) 715 Church St. & 721 Church
St. - Incredible location! Across from
East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
parking, heat and water paid by land-
lord, no pets, no.smoking. Small man-
agement company with excellent
record of personal service. We provide
first rate service! Lease with a
company that truly cares!
CALL bC& IManagement, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
"AVAIL IMMIE. 2 bdrm., hardwood
floor, full basement, 2 car garage,
$1150/month. Heat and water included.
Call (734) 662-9446.
6 Bedroom Apartments
$2400-2800
Sept. 2009
Copi Properties
734-663-5609

*4 BEDROOM APARTMENT*:
A unique and spacious apt. in a beauti-
ful converted house. Hardwood floors,
high ceilings, furnished, dishwasher,
screened porch, large yard. (734) 668-
1100. www.varsitymanagement.com
*GREAT PACKARD LOCA-
TIONS*: 526 and 917, large bal-
conies/patios, heat, water, parking, fur-
nished, dishwashers, laundry. Huge 2
bedroom apartments great for 3-4 peo-
ple! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Ratea & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
02.04.2009 - START planning now! U
of M Housing Fair in the Michigan
Union ballroom; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Stop by and find your housing
for next year...now! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonpronerties.com 734 332 6000.

u00 sE PSFRum Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1200/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
F74dm. Apt.
0 S. Forest
$1500 Copi Properties
-663-5609
4 BLOCKS FROM Union. Big hse: 5
lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons) Living/dining
rms. 2 kitch., 2 bath., 2 study, Free
ldry. & parking. $3200 (734) 717-2017.
5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 min. walk to
Union. $2399 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM APPARTMENTS
Sept. 2009
$2400-$2800
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
954 568 2514
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. 2 fridges. front porch &
deck in back. no coin indry. $3400. 502
Benjamin. Call 248-214-8708. Fall
2009.
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.

6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL -09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
ApartmntsAvialableA

Tower Plaza Condominium
Qsiet&SeumHhrise-One bbddrom Carps
Call Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009
3 Bedrooms

i

www.Bartonbrook.comn, 734-665-562{) 727 Packard (
915 Oakland
$2295
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3 1015 Packard
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, $1355
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th. 205 N. Divi
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. $1995
4 Bedrnomn
7-BEDROOM- HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on 1203 Oakland
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and 929 Church $
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short 731 Packard (
walk fr1g campus and"sodium. T9n . $2695
ants responsible for all utilities. Cafe
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info. 5 Bedrooms
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large 205 N. Divisi:
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large 916 Sybil (Br
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free 1021 E. Univ
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577 Peppers) $241
or baltzellproperties.net 1307 S. State
6 Bedronms
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses, 401 E. Madisc
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web- 1014 Vaugh
site at www.allmandproperties.com for $3695
more info or call1734-973-7368. 1814 Geddes(
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI- 8 Bedrooms
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657. 325 E. Jeffe
$4295
AVAIL 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/ Many Studo
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep- apartments
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty White Manag
Co. 734-368-0256. www.wilson
campus@wils
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full HUGE 3 BD
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun- prime locatiot
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter- water incl. $
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026. www.campusr

Furnished) $1890
(Grand Victorian Home)
(Near State and Packard)
sion (Cathedral Ceilings)
d $2825
3195
Newly Remodeled)
on (Historic Home) $3125
and New House) $3295
versity (Across From Sgt.
95
$2595
on (Brand New!) $3995
n (Plenty of Parking)
(Close to Diag) $3795
rson (Victorian Mansion)
o, 1, and 2 bedrooms
available too! Wilson
ement 734-995-9200
whitemanagement.com
onwhitemanagement.com
RM. bi-level apt. avail. in
n 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
1999/ mo. 734-665-8825.
realty.com

I
I

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, January 21, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 63 Startoflan 26 Aerobatic 40 *Online tracking
1 Messon a base expiration notice maneuver devices
5 Accelerate 64 See to 27 Jack of "Barney 42 Object of
10 Memo request 65 Usher's find Miller" Pizarro's quest
14 Spy name 66 Storied baby in a 35 Barbeau who 43 Toadies
15 Oldsthat replaced basket was theuoriginal 47 Really blown
the Achieva 67 On pins and Rizzo in away?
16 Modeling need needles "Grease" 48 Dauntless
17 Poker player's 36 Executive 52 *John of"Splash"
words DOWN cabinet? 54 Stolen goods
18 Centerfold, e.g. 1 *Casino stack 37 Landed 56 Agree
19 Actress Hayworth 2 His last words 39 Poison 59 *Stamp adhesive
20 It usually thickens were "The rest is neutralizer 60 Anka's "__Beso"
21 Blue silence"
22 Nurse 3 Cal Ripken Jr., ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Pick out e.g.
25 To whom Rick 4Livedl(in) during S A Y A T B A T M O L D S
said"The acold period A V E THROE O R I O N
Germans wore 5 50Cent, for one F A R A F I E L D G E T G O
gray. You wore 6 Essayist'spen ALOG EVE M U G
blue" name
28 The Mustangs of 7 Places to find R 0 E F E R D E L A N C E
coil. football answers to I N T RIO ENS N A R E
29 ima staredeclues aSA MB AEit 0 P A L
30 Hands-uptime? 8Arg. neighbr TA P F I B T R E E A B S
3! e of multiple 89*Open noisily T A PSFN OVE A
jobs, 10 Busines IM S NO E L
metaphorically opening? F M R A D IDO K R A F T
32 Listening device 11 Slovenly F O R D U M M I E S E D iE
33 Like advice, 12 Horn & Hardart S T IE N E A N I N A
ideally eateries DUBA1 FURTRADER
34 Theylastlfive 13*Churnp change D N I C i F I A N A 1 it
minutes irrthe 22 *Insert, as into a O N I C E A S I A N A L E
NBA tight schedule COOKS TEENS S Y D
35 "High Volage" 24 *Wacky xwordeditor@aol.com 01/20/09
rock band 2e3d 2 1 6 7 a 9 10 11 12 13
37 Buck band need
38 Green rolls i416
40 USN officer
41 Sume kind of a 17 19
nut
43 ft.: lumber 20 1 22
44 Tram filler i 4 2 in 27 2
45 "Spamalot"
creator Idle i3 031
46 Pretended tobe 3
49 Fact add-on
50 __IRA in6a3 us7 a36an
51 Sarkozys
predecenssor41
53 Faints, with
"over" 4a 46 47 46
55 H-Lmcnnecfion
57TV's kid explurer 4i soi n
58 vtime: right
away 63 "4 "6"6 57
59 Lamp emanan "n" in n
.in yur dreams
61 Chief god in the n2 66
Edda
62 Second dog to in in
play Eddie on
"Frasier' y Don Gagiard
()n9auunvs Meinnsnnnsnne,,tn, 01/21/I

Furnished (opltonal) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
A Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
'fi Ison 1hite Info@issaproperties.com
MA eAvailable al
2009 Cas

3 dens:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Beroons
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
SBiedroomn:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
T Bedrooms
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500

A

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication. Classification:
010 - LostlFound
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each 020 - For Sale
additional consecutive issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
contact our staff for details " Students may receive a 25% discount when 030- Automotive
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040-Computea
business ads only) n All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing prvleges 045 cology
045 {Technology
have been established * We accept Visa, MastercardAmerican Express,
Discover, cash, or check n For Classified Display advertising, please call one 050 -Furniture
of our Account Executives 060- For Rent
070 - Sublet
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
2 lines 8.60 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
4 lines 17.20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
Policies: 120 - Announcements
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wll be accepted. Misprints: The labilty of
TMD for falure to pubshan advertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrectads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
shall be limited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125- MUsIc
will be responsible for classified advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publcation.
Rates: Al changesshown on the open rates lnes are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a 130 - Roommates
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadline, but no refund wl be given unlessthe ad has not yet
been published, Refusal: All ads are subjectto editing and approval We do not publsh advertisements for 150 - Personal
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to 160-Pes


accepting advertsn g.

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

I

i




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 21, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 21, 2009 - 7A

MSA
From Page 1A
are homeless and without running
water," she said at the meeting.
The second proposal considered
was "Resolution to Call for Peace in
Gaza and Israel," authored by LSA
Reps. Gibran Baydoun, Andrew
Chinsky, Ian Margolis and Cassie
Feldman, MSA Chief of Staff Ashley
Schwedt and Business Rep. Jason
Raymond.
At around 12:15 a.m. last night,
after five hours of community input
and discussion, the amendment
passed.
"The Michigan Student Assembly
mourns all death and deeply wants
the violence to stop for the sake of the
residentsofGaza,Israelandtheworld
and supports humanitarian efforts
and peace," the resolution stated.
The resolution called for the reso-
lution's authors and MSA executives
to work with the American Move-
ment for Israel and Students Allied
for Freedom and Equality to plan a
screening of a documentary about
the sisterhood of six Arab and six
Jewish women entitled "Refusing to
be Enemies: the Zeitouna Story."
It also called for a copy of the
resolution and a letter including the
details of the screening to be sent to
The Michigan Daily, The Ann Arbor
News and the Detroit Free Press.
GRAFFITI
From Page 1A
Area Association, said that once
vandals see graffiti on a property in
a certain area, they are more likely to
deface other properties in that area.
"If someone sees graffiti, they
assume that there aren't enough
eyes on it so it somewhat grows
from there," he said.
The purpose of the ordinance
was not to penalize people who are

The decisionto still consider a res-
olution concerning an international
conflict that is currently in the midst
of a cease-fire was addressed by
several members of MSA last night.
They said that since they believe the
situation continues to be a humani-
tarian crisis, the proposal is still
relevant. Additionally, they said that
the Middle East conflict in general is
a controversial issue that many stu-
dents care about and thus should be
taken up by the assembly.
Much of the sentiment from the
previous week's meetingwas echoed
last night, including passionate dis-
course on both sides of the issue.
Several people present at the
meeting argued that the proposal
was a means of helping those in need
during a time of humanitarian crisis.
"I'm a Palestinian, I'm a Jew,
I'm a Christian, I'm a person, I'm
a human," community member
Husan Ahmad said. "The thing here
is we have a matter that touched
not only Palestinian, but it touched
Christian, Jew, Hispanic; it touched
everybody in the world. The prob-
lem here we are facing is not Jewish,
it is Zionist."
Others argued that the resolu-
tion was one-sided and did not pres-
ent enough information about the
attacks on Israel leading up to its
campaign in Gaza.
"It makes no mention of Hamas
or what's going on in southern Isra-

Andrew Dalack, co-chair of Students Allied for Freedom and Equality, speaks at last
night's MSA meeting about the assembly's resolution regarding the Gaza conflict.

el or that over a million Israelis are
living within range of rocket fire,"
Chinsky said. "If we want to get a
more balanced resolution, that's
something we can talk about in the
future, you don't have to be pro-Pal-
estinian or pro-Israeli to do that."
The issue of whether or not it is
appropriate for MSA to pass a reso-
lution about an international con-
flict was also apoint of much debate
last night.
LSA-SG Rep. Adam London, who
is not a member of MSA, said that as
a student government representative
himself, he does not think it is within
the assembly's parameters to pass an
amendment on such a global issue.
"We have a large view, and it's

important that what you say and the
actions you take should represent
those who voted for you," he said.
"Know when it's right not to get
involved in something that is really
more of an international concern."
Stenvig disagreed with London,
arguing that a student government
hasthe responsibility totake stances
on issues that many University stu-
dents are concerned with regardless
of their locality.
"To take a position as a group of
leaders that is elected is a tangible
thing that has an impact," Sten-
vig said. "We're not future leaders;
we're leaders today already, and we
have a responsibility to take posi-
tions like this."

INAUGURATION
From Page lA
Andrea Jones, president of
the University's chapter of the
NAACP, said the trip to D.C. made
Obama's historic election seem
more real.
"It was a moving experience,"
she said. "It makes me more hope-
ful for the next four years."
Jones said that despite her
group's early arrival, the city was
already crowded when she arrived
yesterday morning.
"We were there at 4:30 a.m. and
the streets were already getting
packed," she said.
In Ann Arbor, students, faculty
and other members of the Univer-
sity community gathered at sev-
eral watch parties around campus
to share in the historic event.
There was standing room
only at the Union Ballroom
where approximately 150 stu-
dents gathered to watch the
inauguration.
Throughout the ceremony,
the room was quiet, but students
stood to cheer and applaud Obama
when he was sworn in. When out-
going President George W. Bush
was shown on television, several
people in attendance snickered
and laughed at him.
LSA sophomore Mitch Crispell,
who watched the inauguration
from the Union, skipped class to
witness the event.
"My parents told me to go to
class," he said. "But I said ifI went
to class I would regret it for the
rest of my life and I really should
be in a place where I can be cel-
ebrating an incredible landmark."
Engineering senior Ashley Issa,
whoalsowatchedtheinauguration
in the Union, said she was excited
by the inauguration and thinks
Obama will be more responsive to
the American people.
"It's really one of our great

events in history," she said. "I see
him as someone who can better
represent all the different voices
that there are inthe US."
Across campus, a group of stu-
dents and faculty filled the Busi-
ness School's recently constructed
Blau Auditorium to watch Obama's
inauguration.
LSA junior Katherine Nasz-
radi, who watched the event in
the Business School, said words
couldn't describe how she felt.
"It's just so incredible," she
said. "It feels like a new era."
Business senior Elise Hutchin-
son, said she decided to watch the
inauguration from Blau Auditori-
um after her professor ended class
early.
"Our teacher let us out of class,
because it's something he defi-
nitely didn't want us to miss," she
said.
Pharmacy freshman Chris
Truong said watching the event
made him proud of the country we
live in today and ready to tackle
the troubles we currently face.
"It is something that all Ameri-
cans should be proud of," he said.
"Even though we have a lot of
problems today, a lot of work can
be done if we start it together."
LSA freshman Justin Schon,
who watched with other members
of the Honor's College commu-
nity in their Mason Hall commons
area, said he was impressed by
Obama's speech.
"I thought it was a fantastic
speech," he said. "He hit on all
the points that he should have
hit on and I was particularly
impressed that one of the first
words he said was the word
'humble,' which is a word I
would like to hear the president
say more often."
Brittney Miller, John A. Weiss,
Jr., Daily Staff Reporter Caitlin
Schneider and the Associated
Press contributed to this report.


victims of graffiti, Clark said, but to
stop the occurrence of vandalism in
the city.
In fact, the new ordinance
was scaled back from its original
draft presented to City Council in
December, which included a fine
of up to $500 for property owners
who didn't remove graffiti within
two to four days of discovering the
vandalism.
Business owners felt the fine was
too harsh and that property owners
were targeted too heavily.

"The revision is much better in
how it relates the original intent of
the ordinance to people," Clark said.
At the meeting, concerns were
raised by Ann Arbor residents that
the ordinance prioritized graffiti
removal in the city, which isn't worth
fighting with taxpayer money.
But City Council members said
that they remained confident that
the ordinance would be successful
in decreasing graffiti within the
city and proud of the collaboration
of many different city organiza-

tions.
Council member Margie Teall,
the senior sponsor of the proposal,
said that the 90-day window before
the ordinance takes effect will be
used to inform property owners
on how to remove the graffit-i. Sug-
gestions for removal included "Ele-
phant Snot" - a graffiti removal
treatment.
The progress of the ordinance
will be reviewed by City Council
at a meeting scheduled six months
from now.

the michigan daily
CAMPUS PROPERTIES AVAILABLE MAY 1 bedroom. 428
AVAILABLE MAY 2009 S. Division. $875 negotiable. Call
734-996-1991 for viewing.
3 Bedrooms AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
720 West Washington (Charming Old floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
West Side Home) $1795 blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
$1785 Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the
most detailed listings in townt RENT
5 Bedrooms ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE
HOUSES OR APARTMENTS AND
611 Church (Above Amerst) $3995 WE'LL KNOCK $500 OFF THE
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995 FIRST MONTH'S RENT WHEN
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen) YOU MENTION THIS AD. Things
$2995 are moving quickly so call 663-4101
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995 now to schedule a personal showing!
Houses and Large Apartments:
6 Bedrooms 515 Catherine - 6 BR / 2 Studies / 2
BA / $3495
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher) 203 N. Ingalls -3 BR/ 3 BA/ $2595
$3095 516 S. Fourth Ave. - 5 BR / all utils.
incl. / $2525
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail- 809 Lawrence #1 - 4 BR / 2.5 BA /
able; and some May rates are now $2245
negotiable too! Wilson White 1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5
Management 734-995-9200 BA / $3295
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com 1218 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR /
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com $2270
912 E. Ann St. - 4 BR / RENTED
CRAWFORD HOUSE 1349 Geddes -5 BR / RENTED
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still 811 Catherine - 6 BR / RENTED
available at 1115 Willard. Free prkg. 535 S. Fifth Ave. - 4 BR / RENTED
$3299/mo. Campus Realty 1331 Geddes - 6 BR / RENTED
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825 934 Greenwood #2 - 4 BR / RENTED
www.campusrealty.com 408 E. Jefferson 61 - 6 BR / RENTED
511 Lawrence -6 BR / RENTED
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint- 517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED
ments available too if yos need them! 1031 Michigan - 4 BR / RENTED
Wilson White Management 206 N. Thayer - 4 BR / RENTED
734-995-9200. 1342 N. Untversity Ct. - 3 BR /
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com RENTED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR /
FALL 2009. PEPPERS Properties. 3 RENTED
bdrm. apts. East U. furn. heat/water
incl. on site prkg. 810-231-0229. ONE MONTH FREE!!!
umcampushousing.com Plus get up to $500 off your first
months rent!
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm. This ends 1-16-09
700+ sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave. *Rent a full 2 bed, get I entry
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003. for the drawing
Ends 1-16-09
GREAT LOCATION, 2 doors east of *applies to F, G, and H only
CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 bath. house has 734-761-2680
screened front porch, giant Living universitytowers-mi.com
Room, d/w & microwave. Parking in
lot behind house. 2 bdrms. could be NOW LEASING
used as doubles! Call Pat 734-663-4101. NOW LeA sing
_______________________ Prime Student Housing
7-8000
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks www.primesh.com
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in- Call today to see your new Home!
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call (734)
649-5549 anytime. Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard. S Bedrooms:
5 or 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free 726 S. STATE-1I LEFT
idry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818. 520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at 326 E. Madison
1111 5. State, Near UM bus stop, 511 . Hoover
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water 1320 S. UNIVERSITY
incl. Bac., A/C, prkg., idry., 2 Bedrooms:
$1450-$1750, No smkgno pets. 909 Church
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250. 1320 N.University- LEFT
ehtseng@comcast.net 1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE 326 E. Madison
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT! 721 S. Forest
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms 1320 S. University
Ends 1-16-09 411 High
universitytowers-mi.com 819 Brown
734-761-2680 3 Bedrooms:
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms 1320 S. University-1 LEFT
avail on central or north campus. *Fully Furnished apartment
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net *Parking Included
MUST SEE! BI-level duplex just one 0 Free Ethernete
block to Rackharm. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea- Free heat and water
tures dishwasher, carpet, fireplace and (*At most locations)
a separate Dining Room. ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
Parking included. house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
Call Pat 734-663-4101.
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. HOUSES want to sell your student
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking rental house (248) 626-0614.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992. WWW.800FULLER.COM
SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hill and (734) 769-7520
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003. 1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus

KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
wwwann borapartments.net
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
available too! All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are activly
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
serfv iCes
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
1 '0'0
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.ed or 763.4400.
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
SUMMER IN MAINE
Males and females.
Meet new friends! Travel!
Teach your favorite activity.
*Tennis
*Gymna s
*English !ding /
*Rocks
*Art -
*Potte
*Swim
*Sail
*Archery .
*Copper Enam eng/
*Basketball
*Lacrosse
*\Water Ski
*anoe and Kayak
*And More
June to August. Residential.
Enjoy our website. Apply online.
Tripp Lake Camp for Girls:
1-800-997-4347
www.tripplakecamp.com

WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey. BABYSITTER AVAILABLE DUR-
www.cashtospend.com ING the week- very flexible hours!
Any hours from 2:30- Monday, Tues-
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED 0o re- day, Thursday and from 12 pm on
design esite for. A r based Wednesdays. Many weekend days
company. Flexible hrs./work from available. Have years of experience
home. Pay hourly or by the job. Please with children and babysitting. Unfortu-
1na Jon (734) 677556 nately do not have a car, but ive, on.
campus. aleight@umich.edu if inter-

TUTOR NEEDED FOR 5th grader
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday
evenings 5-6:30 p.m. @ $20/hr. Quali-
fied candidates MUST have proven
teaching/tutoring experience. Sessions
to be conducted at Ann Arbor resi-
dence. For consideration email
sdodson@thdg.com. No attachments
please.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas.
Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626-6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
AM CHILDCARE 2-3 days/wk. 6:30
- 8:30AM. References. Responsible.
Own transportation. 734-769-1462.
CHILDCARE / DRIVER needed M,
W,F 2:45pm-6pm. Dan 649-7009.
PART-TIME ITALIAN tutor needed
for 7-year-old child. E-mail
mamarc@comcast.net

ested.
SEEKING BABYSITTER FOR 2-
year-old. Hours will vary - mainly HAVE YOU CONSIDERED teach-
evenings. Must have own transporta- ing? Science and math teachers are in
tion and references. Call 248-752-6889. demand nationwide. Thousands of dol-
lars in tuition scholarships are available
to become a science or math teacher.
t ickets & Learn how you may qualify. Science or
math degree preferred, with 2.7 G.P.A.
Information Session - Tuesday, Jan
27th
7pm - Malletts Creek Library
3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA To RSVP or more info 419-530-2060
Beachfront hotel with pool. Great www.teachut3.utoledb.edu
Rooms, Great Rates! Within walking teachut3@utoledo.edu
distance to area attractions including Now is the time to become a teacher.
Spinnaker & Club LaVela. Stay 6
nights, 7th night FREE! Mention code WOMEN'S CHAMBER CHORUS
48104 for discount. www.lollye.com seeking new members, all ages. Mon,
1-888-565-5931. 10-11:30 am, call 734-761-547.

ForThursday,Jan.22, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Some profound wisdom, an unex-
pected realization or a little epiphany
might occur to you today. It will be one
of those "aha!" moments.
TAURUS
(Aprilt20 to May 20)
New friends will be delightful today.
You might meet new people, or a friend
you already have might do something
that pleases you, or a friend could
become a lover.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
People in positions of authority might
surprise you in a very pleasant way
today. You might get unexpected praise
or even a raise (fingers crossed) today.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Be alert for sudden opportunities to
travel or explore further education.
Similar surprises can be related to pub-
lishing, the media, medicine and the law.
Looking goodl
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Gifts, goodies, favors anod perks can
come to you from others today. Some of
you might also benefit in some way indi-
rectly through your partner.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 no Sept. 22)
This is a wonderful day for goodltimes
with partners and close friends.
Someone will surprise you. Some of you
might strike up a serious relationship as
well.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
The addition of new technology can
make your work more interesting and
perhaps easier today. New staffmembers
might surprise you. Something unex-
pected related to your job will occur, but
you'll like it.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)

New flirtations and exciting ,new
acquaintances might be terribly romantic
today. Artists can be productive. Sports
people will be innovative. However, par-
ents should be extra vigilant with chil-
dren.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Impulse purchases for your home or a
family member will be interesting today.
Impromptu entertaining might also take
place at home. Expect unexpected com-
pany.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
New faces, new contacts and a sur-
prisinglturn of events that detours you in
some way might occur today.
Nevertheless, it's all interesting and
exciting. You're up for whatever is hap-
pening.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Impulse buying is likely today.
Something unexpected is impacting your
cash flow. You might suddenly get a
raise or discover a new job. Or you
might suddenly buysomething.
PISCES
(Feh. 191to March 20)
This is a wonderful, spontaneous day
for you. You're out thereflying your col-
ors. You feel excited, exuberant and
eager to meet people. And you will -
especially new faces. '
YOU BORN TODAY You're quite
emotional. You respond to everything in
life with great intensity. You're highly
original, in partbecause you have a vivid
imagination. You are constantly aware of
guarding your impulse to react explo-
sively. (And you can be very good at
doing this.) It's important to maintaina
positive outlook. In the year ahead, you
are going to learn something important
and valuable.
Birthdate of: Balthazar Getty, actor;
Lord Byron, poet; Beverley Mitchell,
actress.'

READER
KNOWS
BEST.
Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

4

f '

i

I


4

8A - Wednesday, January 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


4

M' stumbles to third
straightconference loss
By ALEX PROSPERI fifth-yearsenior David Merrittsaid. 3-pointers), no other Wolverine The Nittany Lions made
Daily Sports Writer "Didn't come out and give a good made more than two field goals. extending their lead to

o it ugly by
as much as

SAID ALSALAH/Daly
Sophomore Chad Langlais notched Michigan's lone goal in last weekend's series.
K *
Langlais sparks
spforadic offense

STATE COLLEGE - In the
midst of a decade's worth of medi-
ocrity, the Michigan basketball
team has recently seen some of the
program's
highest MICHIGAN 58
highs in a PENN STATE 73
long time.
Somehow, it seems only fitting
that the Wolverines' lowest point so
far this year took place in a valley.
"We're just struggling in so many
areas," Michigan coach John Beil-
ein said. "Today, I don't think from
the beginningto the end, it was one
of our better performances."
Whether it was the Wolverines'
fatigue from playing its fourth Big
Ten game in11 days or the shock of
CBS personality and NCAA Tour-
nament regular Gus Johnson pro-
viding commentary for the Big Ten
Network, Michigan lost its third
straight game in a frustrating 73-58
defeat to Penn State.
"(We're) pretty down right now,"

effort tonight. We're not defending,
we're not shooting."
Although the two teams came
into the matchup in a statistical
deadlock, it was the Nittany Lions
that clearly dominated the contest.
Penn State shot 9-of-17 from behind
the arc as the Nittany Lions' guards
penetrated Michigan's defense with
ease and found open shooters. And
if Penn State wasn't scoring from
the outside, forward Jamelle Corn-
ley was dominating the interior.
"Cornley was going bananas in
the first half," Merritt said.
The forward scored 11 points and
grabbed eight rebounds in the first
frame. He finished with 17 points
and 11 rebounds.
Michigan had its worst 3-point
shooting game of the season, con-
verting on just five of 30 attempts.
Sophomore Manny Harris tied
a career low with four points on
just 1-of-9 shooting. And aside from
junior DeShawn Sims (21 points)
and freshman Stu Douglass (three

Sims was also the only Michigan
player to score in double figures.
"I can't really say," Harris said
when asked about Michigan's
shooting woes. "We shoot enough
in practice. Maybe we need to shoot
even more."
Beilein partially attributed the
poor shooting night to the Wolver-
ines' inability to find a rhythm on
the road.
"An important part of this game
was establishing a tempo, and we
did not," Beilein said. "You don't
see me get that upset with my team
at the beginning of the game. Itwas
'my turn' and 'your turn.' "
The Wolverines were 2-for-16
from behind the arc in the first half,
and it was the sixth straight half
that Michigan shot less than 50
percent from the field.
Despite anotherforgettable first
half, Michigan trailed by just seven
going into the break. But a quick 8-2
Penn State run early in the second
half put the contest out of reach.

26 in the second stanza.
Beilein even shook up the lineup
in the first half to try to find some-
one who would play with poise. He
putinsenior Jevohn Shepherd, who
hasn't played significant minutes
since Dec. 29 against North Caro-
lina Central, while playing Harris
for just 12 minutes.
In the next month, the sched-
ule only gets harder for the Wol-
verines. And for a team that relies
heavily on 3-pointers, shooting 26
percent frombehind the arc during
the past three games won't cut it for
the Wolverines.
Beilein said his teams at West
Virginia suffered through similar
slumps and that a shooting drought,
like the ones the Wolverines saw
last night, can end in an instant.
"One or two shots go in, and then
all of a sudden, it absolutely turns
around," Beilein said.
And the Wolverines need a turn-
around soon to havea realistic shot
at playing in the postseason.

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
During the Michigan hockey
team's recent six-game win streak,
the Wolverines averaged almost a
four-goal margin of victory. They
hadn't quite figured out how to win
a low-scoring nailbiter.
In fact, the
Wolverines' 1-0 NOTEBOOK
shutout of Bowl-
ing Green Saturday marked the first
time all season that they won a game
withoutcscoring at least three goals.
"We need to be in games like
this," Michigan coach Red Berenson
said after the victory. "I think it was
a good gut check for the team."
The CCHA basement-dwelling
Falcons held the Wolverines score-
less through 90 minutes. Midway
through the second period, sopho-
more defenseman Chad Langlais
fired a shot from the left point that
flew past Bowling Green goalie
Jimmy Spratt. A perfect screen from
junior forward Anthony Ciraulo
blinded the netminder.
Langlais credited Ciraulo, who
filled in for an ill Matt Rust, and his
line of Danny Fardig and Luke Glen-
dening for his goal.
Langlais' tally also marked the
first goal scored with senior goal-
tender Billy Sauer between the pipes
in almost 180 minutes of play.
"(Sauer) hadn't been able to win,"
Berenson said. "Finally, the team
scored a goal for him. ... You can't
win games if your team can't score."
Langlais, who said before the
season that he intended to be more
aggressive and add to the team's
offense, has followed through on his
word.
He tallied his first career goal in
the season opener against St. Law-
rence and has quietly accumulated
assists since then. Saturday's goal
gave Langlais his 14th point of the
season and put the Spokane, Wash.,
native into a tie for eighth place
among CCHA defensemen.
The sophomore has also emerged
as one of the league's top point men
for power plays. Michigan assistant
coach Billy Powers said in Octo-
ber that Langlais' vision on the ice
makes him a good "quarterback" for
the power-play unit.
GETTING ROUGH: With two sec-
onds left in Saturday's game, both
teams finally snapped.
Seven penalties were dealt -
three to Michigan players - after
a handful of players dropped their
sticks and traded punches after the
whistle.
Referees called 46 combined
penalties in the series, including
three majors. Hits echoed loudly in

the cozy confines of the BGSU Ice
Arena Saturday night.
The hit that caused the most con-
cern for the Wolverines came 23
seconds into the first period of Sat-
urday's game. Junior defenseman
Chris Summers got slammed into
the boards in front of the Falcon
student section and didn't get up for
a few minutes. Berenson said Sum-
mers suffered a head injury.
Summers, the team's acting cap-
tain, was forced to watch the rest of
the game from the stands with the
scratched players. He said he felt
dizzy after the hit and was taken
out of the game for precautionary
reasons.
With Summers out of commis-
sion, the Wolverines played with just
five defensemen. Early in the third
frame, that number almost became
four. Sophomore Tristin Llewellyn
limped off the ice with what looked
like a left knee injury after Falcon
Josh Boyd clipped him near center
ice. Llewellyn returned to the game
and was sporting an ice pack on his
knee after the game.
"We've been dealing with inju-
ries all season, so it's nothing new
to us," added Langlais, adding that
some defensemen saw more ice time
than usual and played well.
It marked the first time all year
the Wolverines lacked aplayer wear-
ing a letter on the ice. After senior
captain Mark Mitera suffered an
ACL in the season-opening game in
October, Summers began wearing
a 'C,' and Berenson didn't appoint
another alternate captain.
And with both Mitera and Sum-
mers sitting in the stands Saturday,
sophomore forward Louie Capo-
russo and junior defenseman Steve
Kampfer represented Michigan
when talking to referees about pen-
alties and a disputed goal.
Summers didn't practice Mon-
day, but the trainers cleared him to
play in yesterday's practice and this
weekend. Summers said yesterday
he felt a little sluggish since he hadn't
been on the ice for a few days.
NOT QUITE: All weekend, senior
forward Tim Miller kept finding
himself with the puck in front of the
net, including three good scoring
chances.
But without a little puck luck, he
couldn't get past Spratt.
It appeared Miller figured out
the secret to success late in the
third period of Saturday's game. He
poked the puck into the net, which
elicited a red light and cheers from
the Michigan contingent of fans.
But when the referees reviewed
the play, they ruled that Spratt had
held the puck long enough to war-
rant a whistle before Miller's shot.

Tis is the lowest of the lows

0

STATE COLLEGE -
ast month, Michigan men's
basketball coach John Beil-
ein wasn't quick to jump to
conclusions.
In his postgame press confer-
ence following
the Wolverines'
upset over then-
No. 4 Duke, Bei-
lein called this
season a "roller-
coaster," saying
his young team
would encoun- RUTH
ter both ups and LINCOLN
downs this sea-
son.
"We don't want to go the other
way, but experience tells you that,"
Beilein said on Dec. 6. "This is the
good part of the rollercoaster."
But after last night's 73-58 loss
to Penn State, it's clear that Michi-
gan has not only fallen hard but dug
itself into a deep hole with poor
shooting and even worse defense.
Rebounding from this low point
will require a little more than a

comeback win in overtime. Maybe
Beilein can get some West Virginia
mining equipment to help out the
Wolverines.
But until something changes, the
chance of climbing out of this dead
space is looking grim.
The Wolverines shot a season-
low 16.7 percent from behind the
arc and allowed 36 points in the
paint.
Entering last Wednesday's game
against Illinois, the Wolverines
averaged 73 points per game. Since
then -three games and seven days
later - Michigan hasn'tscored more
than 58 points in any contest.
"This was disappointing just
from a standpoint that we're just
struggling in so many areas," Beil-
ein said.
The remainder of the season has
only three "gimme" games, if that.
The rest are filled with the likes of
Michigan State at home and Pur-
due, Wisconsin and Minnesota on
the road.
The last 12 games, five home
games and seven road ones, will be

an uphill battle. And with the Wol-
verines struggling, it could get ugly.
I'm not saying it's easy to win on
the road in the Big Ten. Just look
at the Boilermakers. Purdue, the
media's pick to win the Big Ten this
season, also lost in State College
and was a missed Northwestern
layup away from being humiliated'
in Evanston.
But Purdue didn't fall behind by
26 points in Happy Valley.
Sophomore Kelvin Grady noted
the frustration he's felt over the span
of these lastfewgames.
"It's just tough right now," said
Grady, who scored three points on
1-of-5 shooting. "We're not shoot-
ing the ball well, and the chemis-
try's not there. We've got a lot of
things that are correctable that we
can fix."
That chemistry following the
team's upsets over Duke and UCLA
was so apparent it practically
smacked you in the face.
But it's gone now.
In each of Michigan's three con-
secutive losses, there's been just one

Wolverine stepping up each time.
Last night, it was junior forward
DeShawn Sims's 21 points and 11
rebounds that carried his limping
team to the finish. Manny Harris,
who entered the game as the confer-
ence's leading scorer at 18.8 points
per game, failed to show up.
Harris's second-halfheroicsbhave
carried this team before. But last
night, he looked almost timid and
afraid to drive. He finished with
four points, which tied a career low
dating back to last season.
Meanwhile, the Nittany Lions
lit up the Bryce Jordan Center with
four players in double figures.
Michigan needs that same bal-
anced offensive attack to finish this
season with its head up.
Beilein said after the loss to Wis-
consin on New Year's Eve that it's,
sometimes a loss that's the turning
point in a team's season.
This loss could be a turn for the 4
worst.
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr@umich.edu,

4

Can Robinson help Rich Rod revive Blue's 'D'?

Multicultural
Career Fair
Tuesday, January 20th
2-6pm at The Michigan Union
Discuss full-time job & internship
opportunities with organizations from
across the country!
Registration on-site the day of the fair.
See our website for a list of participating
organizations.
Quick Tips
Dress professionally
Bring your resume
Check the Fair website for more tips
Becausen...oe day can make all the difference!

ichigat
Rich
what h
He better hope
Rodriguez had
next defensive co
to mesh with the
After all, that's
why Scott Sha-
fer lasted just
one season with
the Wolverines.
Shafer came
to Ann Arbor
as an outsider
and left as an
outsider. He
never gained
the trust of his
fellow coaches.
Michigan's schem
match Shafer's dE
phy, and he never
personally with th
Rodriguez thin
cuse coach Greg
Wolverines' new
dinator, will be a1
from Robinson's lt
sive coordinatora
shows Rodriguez
part right.
After then-Lon
Derrick Johnson,r
Chief, interceptei
Oklahoma, Robin
group of fans whr
ling him. The fans
let outa string ofe;
Robinson said h6
- ---- ------ ---- - - --
ROBINSON
From page 1A
total. During his
Robinson won twc
"Greg brings a
rience as a defen
both at the collet
sional level," Rod
statement release
Department. "Wi
have Greg, Laura
family join our M
know that Greg w

n football coach the "hook 'em horns" gesture.
Rodriguez got Passionate, intense and slightly
e wanted. immature. Robinson should fit right
it's enough. in with Michigan's coaching staff.
stressed that his But will he be good enough to
crdinator needed turn around the Wolverine defense,
rest of the staff. which, by far, had its worst-ever
season statistically last year?
Even if Rodriguez gets his spread
offense clicking, the defense has a
lot of work to do to help Michigan
get to the level the coach was hired
to reach.
Those in favor of Robinson's hir-
ing will point to 10 games - two
DAN I Super Bowls (with the Denver
FEDBroncos in 1997 and 1998), four
FELDMA Rose Bowls (including one against
Michigan in 2005 with Texas),
a Fiesta Bowl, a Cotton Bowl, an
tes didn't always Aloha Bowl and a Freedom Bowl.
efensive philoso- A perfect 10-0 record in college
really connected bowlgames and the only NFLbowl.
te other coaches. But then there are the three words
iks former Syra- that make Robinson a risky hire -
g Robinson, the as an assistant.
defensive coor- In one sense, it should be com-
better fit. A story forting for the Wolverines that
one year as defen- Robinson is again an assistant, a
at Texas in 2004 role in which he has appeared phe-
probably got this nomenal.
But the collection of legend-
ghorn linebacker ary coaches Robinson has worked
now aKansas City under is astounding - Pete Car-
d a pass against roll, Mack Brown, Terry Donahue,
son turned to a Monte Kiffin, Mike Shanahan and
o had been heck- Dick Vermeil. Maybe Robinson is
alleged Robinson more of a product of their systems,
xpletives at them. especially considering his complete
simply gave them failure at Syracuse.

The Orange went 10-37, includ-
ing 3-25 in Big East play, during his
only head-coaching gig.
Robinson's sound bites, or
Gregisms, were widely mocked. He
once said the team's attitude "can
maybe snowball into something
that can catch fire."
In July, Syracuse's top-rated
recruit decommitted in favor of
Central Michigan because the Mid-
American Conference Chippewas
were more attractive than Syra-
cuse.
Because Rodriguez spends so
much time with the offense, his
defensive coordinator almostserves
as the head coach for half the team.
So it's tough to completely ignore
Robinson's shortcoming with the
Orange.
But Rodriguez has a record of
making the right choice here. He's
in his fourth head coaching job.
And for the fourth time, his defen-
sive coordinator in year one won't
see year two.
Phil Elmassian was ousted after
one year at West Virginia. His
defensive coordinator at Glenville
State retired. And football was
dropped at Salem following Rodri-
guez's first year there.
After suffering losing seasons in
the first year of his last three jobs,
Rodriguez found the right coordi-
nators to help turn his programs
around.
Rodriguez hired Todd Graham
and Jeff Casteel as co-coordina-
with a wealth of knowledge who
the players really respond to. His
season here in 2004 produced one
of the best defenses in Texas his-
tory and helped set the stage for
our National Championship season
in 2005."
But at Syracuse, Robinson posted
a dismal 10-37 record, never finish-
ing higherthan seventh place in the
eight-team Big East conference.
Of the nation's 119 teams, Syra-
cuse posted the 101st ranked scor-
ing defense last season.
Though he immediately threw

tors at West Virginia. Dean Hood
moved from offensive to defensive
coordinator at Glenville State.
Graham is the head coach
at Tulsa, which went 11-3 and
trounced Ball State in the GMAC
Bowl this year.
Casteel, still at West Virginia, is
one of the most-respected defen-
sive coordinators in the nation.
And Hood is the head coach at
Eastern Kentucky, which quali-
fied for the Football Championship
Subdivision playoffs this year.
Can Robinson live up to that
pedigree? After he failed miserably
once realizing his lifelong dream of
becoming a head coach, my biggest
question is whether he can show
the same fire he did with the Bron-
cos in the 1990s.
But a story relayed by Nick San-
tiago, a defensive tackle at Syracuse
last year, provides some relief.
Robinson used to call the Orange
into a huddle onthe field after their
pregame warm-ups. He delivered
impassioned speeches and got so
fired up he would jab at the players
on the inner part of the circle.
Before a game earlier this season,
Robinson hurt his hand because he
hit a player so hard.
Maybe Coach Rob will be good
enough, after all.
Coach Rod better hope so. His
job might depend on it.
- Dan Feldman can be reached
at danfeld@umich.edu.
his hatinthe ring for coaching posi-
tions around the nation after being
fired, Robinson recently suggested
thathe hadn't gottenoverlosinghis
job at Syracuse.
"My stomach is sick," Robin-
son told The (Syracuse, N.Y.) Post-
Script Standard at his final press
conference last month. "I need
relief. I need a pill, because I'm sick
to my stomach that it's done. That's
what I hate. It's what's in my gut.
Shoot. That's the biggest regret.
Pulling boxes into my office. That's
ugly. It is."

time in Denver,
o Super Bowls.
wealth of expe-
sive coordinator,
giate and profes-
Iriguez said in a
d by the Athletic
e are excited to
and their entire
tichigan family. I
ill work well with

our defensive staff, entire football
staff and players."
Robinson also has coordina-
tor experience at the college level,
spending the 2004 season as Tex-
as's co-defensive coordinator and
eight seasons at UCLA as the Bru-
ins' defensive line coach.
"Greg's a high energy, creative,
hard-working guy who has had suc-
cess at both the NFL and collegiate
levels," Texas coach Mack Brown
said inanother statement released
by University of Michigan Athletic
Department. "He's a veteran coach
k4

For more information contact us at:
3007SA
wwwcareercenter.umich.edu

eCare te



0 - -" -- -w-

U w w --- - -


w

w

w

v

w

w

w

v

w

1 813 The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, January 21, 2009

In a league with the devilamr

e trailed 4-3 with two
outs and the bases load-
ed in the bottom of the
sixth and final inning. Standing in
the coach's box alongside the first
base line, I glanced at my scorecard
to find, regrettably, that Aaron was
our next batter. "Shit," I muttered
to myself. "Anyone but Aaron."
This past summer was my third
year of coaching youth baseball.
Usually, the scores of the games
were inconsequential, these being
eight- to ten-year-olds, but our
team was 0-11 and this was our last
game. For the kids' sake, we need-
ed to win once. A 1-11 season spells
dignity; the tacit recognition that
victory is possible even if infre-
quent. Not so with 0-12, a Little
League record so odious it's liable
to haunt a player through their
teens and into middle age when,
invariably, his own children will
be pressured into sports to atone
for their parent's past failings.
But all hopes of forestalling
such a traumatic season rested on
the bat of our worst player, Aaron,
the single most sadistic nine-year-
old in the history of Minneapo-
lis' little leagues. The boy was an
unendurably rambunctious mon-
ster. He pulled teammates' hair,
destroyed equipment and yelled
insults at other players while they
batted, but it was his unwilling-
ness to throw a baseball that galled
me most. He preferred to drop-
kick the ball and shout "Goal!" at
the top of his lungs instead. This
happened more than a few times
in every game, which might have
been why this team had yet to earn
a victory.

At the plate, Aaron seldom
swung the bat. Having no faith
in his ability to come through in
the clutch in our last chance for a
win, I looked toward our bench to
see if he was ready to hit and get
it over with. Predictably, Aaron
was nowhere to be seen. "Where's
Aaron?" I yelled to the bench, but
the other coaches were already
searching for him. "Not again," I
thought. "Tell me he isn't crawling
under the bleachers. or throwing
other kid's gloves in the dumpster
behind the parking lot. Or digging
a - " This thought was abruptly
interrupted by a shrill chorus of
screams sounding from the oppo-
site end of the field, over which
I heard a coach yell, "Aaron, get
down from there!" To the crowd's
collective horror, Aaron had
scaled the backstop and was hurl-
ing rocks at the opposing team's
bench and fan section as he howled
"Goooooo Cubs!" with pernicious
glee. He had carefully prepared for
his onslaught, filling his pockets to
their brims with stones. "Rock-
ies suck!" he shrieked, launching
a rock at the opposing coach who
struggled to shield himself behind
his plastic clipboard.
Having witnessed several simi-
larly surreal Aaron outbursts over
the previous eleven games, my
resolve to intercede was torpid.
My only reaction was annoyance
at the fact that Aaron, who could
suddenly throw rocks with dan-
gerous velocity while clinging to
a chain link fence, had never once
been willing to throw a baseball in
a game.
Amidst barking dogs, screech-

ing children and mortified par- ting order and applied positions,
ents ducking under lawn chairs to he would stand over my shoul-
avoid the barrage of stones, I spot- der and ask where I planned to
ted Aaron's father. Vulgarly clad bat Aaron, making sure to note
in a Hawaiian shirt, he stood and that his son was primed for a big
attentively videotaped his devil- game and that many of the other
ish son with the slightest hint of a players were looking "lackluster"
smile on his lips, as if this incident in warm-ups. "I'm sorry, Greg,
were as normal an event at a Little but I've already told you. I'm bat-
League game as a skinned knee. ting him last and putting him at
catcher every inning so long as he
keeps tipping over the water jug
during games," I said on one occa-
Coaching the sion. "I know what you're getting
at," he replied as he removed his
meanest sunglasses and looked at me in the
eye with solemnity. "I'm the boy's
hellion to ever father and I know better than any-
one how he can be a real shovelful
pl e sometimes. But, as I tell my wife, I
like to think that that's just Aaron
League being Aaron. And you know what?
I wouldn't change Aaron for the
world."
During games, Aaron's father
Since I believe in giving nine- acted like a monarchal coach for
year-olds the benefit of the doubt, both teams, yelling at players to
I must place all blame for Aaron's shift their positions or to look
misbehavior on his father. Months alive. He also yelled at the umpire
earlier, before the season's open- from time to time, an absurdity in
ing game, he introduced himself a league where balls and strikes
to our coaching staff with the line: weren't kept. On one such occa-
"Hello, I'm Aaron's father. You can sion, after Aaron was called out
go ahead and call me Greg, though. and ejected for throwing his hel-
I'm a lawyer." He was the type of met at a player trying to field a pop
man who justifies excessive inter- up, his dad stormed onto the field
vention into his son's affairs with with arms outstretched in disbe-
the inflated notion of being a good lief. He proceeded to lecture the
father. He was anything but. umpire, a vacillating 14-year-old,
During the "kids against par- before kicking dirt on his shoes
ents" exhibition softball game, he and home plate. Though both were
had tried his hardest to win, slid- ejected and told to leave that game,
ing into home plate and taking Aaron and his dad showed up the
out the legs of his own son. Before next week and every week after
regular games, as I made the bat- that without scruples. Whether

denial or obliviousness permitted
them to return after repeated pub-
lic embarrassments, I don't know.
But the league was never willingto
intervene for more than one game
and so the sideshow had continued
with impunity the whole season.
Now, at the end of our last game,
it took Aaron's older sister climb-
ing up the backstop to finally end
his violent spree. As she did this,
the umpire walked to me and said
that, because it was Aaron's turn
to hit, his slot would be consid-
ered an out, effectively ending the
game and with it our winless sea-
son. Concluding here, one could
rightly assert that the experience
with Aaron and his father harmed
everyone involved. And though we
loathed both of them by season's
end, what happened next showed
that everyone has the capability to
surprise.
Before I could freely tell off
Aaron's father for his dangerously
permissive parenting and chide
him for letting his son hurt other
people under the guise of individ-
ual expression, he presented our
four coaches with a white enve-
lope and walked away. We opened
it and found, to our astonishment,
the highly inappropriate but cer-
tainly not unwelcome sum of $800
in cash. And just like everyone has
the capability to surprise, every-
one too has their price. Our penni-
less college-aged coaches realized
then that, despite their myriad
faults, Aaron and his father were
really very nice people after all.
-William Petrich is
an LSA sophomore

WHAT'S YOUR PERSONAL STATEMENT?

E-mail submissions to vosgerchian@michigandaily.com




V~~ V ww


_.W

-w-

w


w

w

w

w

" ! "

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Angela Chih
Cover photo:
Anna Bakeman
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distrihuted
every Wednesday during the
academic year

new rules
rule 173: In
deeper than two
feet of snow,
there is only one
rule in street
parking: if you
can get in and
out, you're good.
rule 174: True
artists would
never be cen-
sored by a city
graffiti ordinance.
rule 175: "Tech-
nical difficulty"
isn't a reason-
able excuse to
warn students of
a highly conta-
geous norovirus
three days late.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

THE EDITOR'S NOTEBOOK with Jessica Vosgerchian
A look at the big news events this week and how important they really are. Conveniently rated from one tol0.
OUR PRESIDENT IS BLACK
History was made, replayed and weighed yesterday as Barack Obama
was inaugarated as the first black president oftthe United States. A
crowd of tens of thousands, crying and cheering, made pilgrimages to
10 D.C. to see it first hand. There, Obama setthe course for the country,
artfully disparaging Bush's tenure without a single overt attack. Rever-
end Joe Lowry gave an impassioned benediction, wherein he rhymed
"yellow man" with "mellow, man." And Dick Cheney also did what he
does best and nodded-off in the corner.
GRADUATE TO GOOGLER
University President Mary Sue Coleman announced that Larry Page,
the founder of Google, will deliver the commencement address at
this spring's graduation ceremony. Page, who graduated from the
University in 1995, will not be taking resumes - much to the dismay
of 2009's many jobless graduates. He will, however, be throwing
back shark bowls at Rick's.

THE 3.9 GPA PLAN THE FACEBOOKER CARD
The mtvU Platinum Select Visa offers the chance Only available to people with Facebook accounts,
to earn "Thank You Points" - a reward system Chase bank offers Chase + 1, which comes equipped
tailored for young people that goes toward movie with a detailed Facebook fan page and a catalog of.
tickets, home appliances and even student loans rewards that can be bought with Karma Points.
rebates or tickets to the MTV Music Awards. Does paying your credit card off on time mean good
These points are awarded for making purchases, karma? Evidently. Does Chase know how to market
paying bills on time and earning a good GPA. You to the Facebook generation? Obviously. Chase + 1
can earn up to 2,000 points per semester for your is excessively marketed to young people. To satisfy
pristine report card, 25 points for every timely our need for immediate gratification, Chase + 1
payment and between 1 and 5 points per $1 spent rewards 20 Karma Points - enough for a Cat Power
in everyday purchases. The upside this program is CD. You can get another five points for passing a
that the "Thank You Network" offers a wide variety credit education quiz, two points for every timely
of earnable rewards and isn't just limited to "young payment and eight points for a six-month spree of
people" products. The downside is it might take good behavior. Chase + 1 on Facebook offers advice
some time to earn the 10,000 points to earn a $100 on spending with credit, as well as the opportunity
rebate toward your student loans, to donate points to charity as dollars or share points
, ,~, , , , , ... . ; , ,, ,# with your friend who says he needs that "Flight of
the Concords" season DVD immediately,

ACTUAL CASH BACK
The Discover Student Card has one of the few
rewards programs in the reach of credit novices
that offers actual money as an incentive. With
Discover's Cashback Bonus, you can earn back
up to 1 percent on general purchases and up to 5
percent on purchases made in specific categories
like gas stations, restaurants and travel that change
four times a year. Getting cash just for spending
sounds like a great deal, but for general purchases
you'd have to spend at least $3,000 to reach the 1
percent threshold - that's right, $30. And for the
novice cardholder, this credit plan contains several
snares that could cost you more than $30 pretty
fast. Discover calculates the annual percentage
rate using the "two cycles average daily balance,"
rather than the standard one cycle method. This
means that an outstanding balance from one month
will come back to haunt you the next - even if you
paid it off, the interest rate that resulted tram that
balance will be figured into the calculation of your
interest charge far the second month,
FINE PRINT
POSITIVES
No annual fee
25 days to make payments
NEGATIVES
Two cycle average daily balance
14.99 percent annual percentage rate

FINE PRINT
POSITIVES
No annual fee
No interest charge for six months
anreasonable 12.24 percent interest rate

FINE PRINT
POSITIVES
No annual fee
No interest charge for three months

t,


The M h n y- d d

w w w w w


w..

w

w

w w

w

Wedneday, 2009Dail

Engineering freshman Payton Spaller works on a car for the Baja Racing Team.

DETROIT THREE
From Page 5B
their pocketbooks a little harder,
but they also realize the value of the
things you can't account for in dol-
lars and cents.
As philanthropy has become
increasingly difficult, many large
auto industry firms have withdrawn
some or all of their funding of stu-
dent organizations like the Michi-
gan Formula SAE and Michigan
Baja Racing teams.
But team leaders said automotive
firms' struggles to find room in their
budgets for sponsorship have led
them to step up collaboration with
student organizations, contributing
their expertise, facilities and sup-
plies instead of cash.
Engineering junior Katherine
Lapham, the business director for
the University's Formula SAE team,
said the organization used to rely on
large donations fromcompanies like
Ford to build its car and compete in
annual events. Although Ford and
other supporters have scaled back
their donations in recent years, the
team has compensated for those
losses, often through collabora-
tive efforts that have improved the
team's relationship with sponsors,
she said.
"With GM and Ford cutting back
with everything, a lot of their sup-
plierscan help us more because they
have a lot more free time," Lapham
said. "They can't give us funding,
but they can help us machine, or
use their facilities. If we need some-
thing, we can ask them."

Michigan-based automotive firms
that have scaled back their mon-
etary donations have instead given
the team free parts and technical
support, often offering the chance
to use new technology in exchange
for their feedback. Others, like Pratt
& Miller Engineering, a New Hud-
son-based firm that specializes in
performance vehicles, have offered
the team access to its facilities after
hours, Lapham said.
Dean Guard, the coordinator of
GM's University of Michigan rela-
tions team, said he has pushed for
the company to continue donating
money to the University's vehicle
teams despite the company's finan-
cial struggles. That could change
this year because of unprecedented
pressure to cut back on costs, but
Guard said the company would con-
tinue to provide technical support
regardless.
"What does the future hold? I
couldn't tell you. We're obviously
in a very difficult time," Guard said.
"But even if we suffer a financial
obligations change, there's still an
awful lot we can do with very little
money and alot of our time."
Automotive firms have continued
to lend support to the student vehi-
cleteams and collaborative research
labs in part because the programs
have become important incubators
for future employees, Detroit Three
engineers said.
Fansler estimated that General
Motors has hired more than a dozen
University of Michigan students
who worked on GM-sponsored
research projects over the past
decade.

Many more have come from the
student vehicle teams, said Dean
Guard, chiefengineer ofGM's small-
block V8 engine program. He said
the automotive teams havebeen fer-
tile recruiting ground because they
allow GM to find engineers with the
interest and passion to make them
successful in the auto industry.
"There are plenty of good engi-
neers," Guard said. "We're not just
looking for good engineers. We're
looking for good engineers who are
passionate about vehicles."
Each year, the company offers
multiple scholarships to members
of the vehicle teams. Engineering
senior Andrew Kneifel, who has
received one of the scholarships
twice, said he has seen auto industry
officials continue to recruit on cam-
pus even though the slow economy
has prevented them from hiring at
the usual rate.
"It's been a great help to my per-
sonal educational expenses, but also
I see them building these relation-
ships with students, coming back to
career fairs," Kneifel said. "They're
still trying to develop relationships
with engineers."
While some students studying
automotive engineering said they
had begun looking for jobs in
other sectors, many said they
remain enthusiastic about work-
ing for the auto industry but have
acknowledged they might have
to wait a little while longer than
previously hoped.
Kneifel, a native of Rochester
Hills, said he hopes to find a job in
the auto industry but wasn't able
to secure a position last semester.
He said he plans to remain at the
University another year to earn
his master's degree and try again
afterward.
Jeremy Spater, a master's stu-
dent in mechanical engineering
who works on the HCCI research
project, said the slowdown in
hiring for automotive engineers
is discouraging but he doesn't
expect it to last.
"Right now, there are more
cars coming off the road than
there are being sold," Spater said.
"No, there's not better public
transportation now, and there's
no alternative to cars, so sooner
or later, people are going to have
to start buying them again."
RECHARGING FOR
THE FUTURE
Car sales fell across the board
last year as the economy strug-
gled. But because oftheir reliance
on large, gas-guzzling cars and
SUVs, Detroit's automakers were
hit hardest, which demonstrated
the importance of new technolo-
gies like the HCCI engine.
Fansler, the GM engineer, said

the University's expertise in engine
systems analysis will be crucial to
the development of alternative sys-
tems like electric fuel cells, which
many industry analysts expect to
become standard for many cars in
the near future. Advances like fuel
cells will help GM fill the technol-
ogy "pipeline" it will need to thrive
in the 21st century, Fansler said.
"We have to-do that, or we might
survive a little longer and find our-
selves in a similar fix a little farther
down the road," he said.
With GM banking much of its
future on the success of the all-
electric Chevrolet Volt, scheduled
to launch in 2010, the University's
importance as a research partner
has grown.
The University's Collaborative
Research Laboratory in Advanced
Vehicle Manufacturing, led by
Mechanical Engineering Prof. Jack
Hu, has begun researching assem-
bly processes for the batteries GM
plans to use in the Volt.
And last week atthe North Amer-
ican International Auto Show in
Detroit, GM extended its research
relationship with the University by
announcing plans for a five-year, $5
million joint program to research

batteries for electric vehicles.
The GM/UM Advanced Battery
Coalition for Drivetrains, led by
Mechanical Engineering Prof. Ann
Marie Sastry, will perform experi-
ments and simulations to help devel-
op the lithium-ion batteries being
developed for vehicles like the Volt.
Late last year, theUniversity and GM
announced plans to enroll 50 GM
engineers in Sastry's master's pro-
gram in energy systemsresearch.
Weinert, who is also director of
corporate and government relations
for the University's College of Engi-
neering, said these technologies -
developed in part at the University
- offer the domestic auto industry a
chance to turn the corner.
"Clearly, with what's happening
in the auto industry and what's hap-
pening with global climate change
and the energy challenges of the
country, everyone would agree that
electrification of the automobile
is a path that needs to be pursued,
and pursued rapidly," Weinert said.
"This work, for that very reason,
is potentially transformational to
this 100-plus-year-old industry. It's
an inflection point. We haven't had
many of those in the industry's his-
tory, but we're at one right now."

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Closing Guantanamo Bay
2. Obama's first week
3. Jong Un II
And three things you can't:
1. Norovirus
2. Boy George drama
3. Joaquin Phoenix's rap career

"I feared for my life most of the time."
- JESTINA MUKOKO, a woman who leads the Zimbabwe Peace Project, on her kidnapping, deten-
tion and torture for three weeks by agents of the state. Mukoko was accused of plotting against the
government of President Robert Mugabe, the ruthless dictator notorious for stifling any opposition


QUOTES OF THE WEEK
"It was a bunch of death
I noticed the New York threats and of people say-
skyline getting closer and ing, you know, I'm going to
closer." come over and kill you, and
- DAVE SANDERSON, a 47-year-old man stuff like that."
Sfrnm Charlott whn ba dhar the U S Air-

e1IItralL, wno was auuoa re u, /ir-
ways plane that blew out both engines and had
to make an emergency landing in the Hudson
River on Thursday. All 150 passengers
and five crew members survived.

- MCKAY HATCH, a 15-year-old boy from Pasa-
dena, Cal., on the 22,000 threatening e-mails he
has received since he started a nationwide "No
Cussing Club" to encourage less profanity in public

Y.OUTU BE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Job interviewing 101
Although the prospects certainly
look grim right now, it's a safe bet
that most students here will someday
have a job interview. In order to pre-
pare, you could always use the Career
Center as a resource. You could also
watch this video.
While waitingtobe called in forhis
interview, Ben Schwartz is engrossed
in the kid's magazine "Zoobooks."
An assistant lets Schwartz know that
Meredith is ready to see him, but
Schwartz says he isn't quite ready.
As Schwartz follows the assistant
through the hall, he suggests they
grab dinner sometime. Scornful and
impatient, the assistant scoffs, "No, I
don't think so." Schwartz then asks
for her name and tries to slip money
into her jacket pocket. She disgust-.
edly pushes him away from her.
Now comes the interview. Mere-
dith starts by asking Schwartz about
his job experience. "So what is Omni-
core?" she says. "Isn't Omnicore the
name of the company from that
movie, 'Eobocop' ?" "Oh, so you've
seen the movie," Schwartz says,
sounding surprised. Meredith then
asks about another one of Schwartz's
employers, called "Skynet." Which
Meredith identifies as being from
"The Terminator." "Ahh, you see a lot
of movies," Schwartz says.
He ends by asking her out to din-
ner and then offeringher money.
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily

BY THE NUMBERS
Number of National Guard troops on duty for Barack Obama's
inauguration
Number of law-enforcement officers on duty for the inauguration
Number of people who attended inaugural events in Washington, D.C.
Source: Bloomberg News

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
A winter remedy - Yeah, we know it's cold. On
your dreadful walks to class, you've probably often
regretted the fact that you left in the first place.
Well, it's time to stop griping and take action. Go
to Meijer and stock up on the necessary goods: a
month's worth of microwave meals, whiskey and
coffee. Find studious friends to take notes for you in
lecture, and don't bother with discussion sections.
It'll be spring before you know it.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Coffee consumption can reduce
some oral cancers
Drinking coffee can reduce the risk of getting cancer in the oral
cavity or throat, according to a study recently published in the Amer-
ican Journal of Epidemiology by researchers at Tohoku University,
Sendei, in Japan.
In the study, the researchers examined data from the Miyagi
Cohort Study in Japan, analyzing more than 38,000 people aged 40
to 64 years old with no previous experience with cancer. In particu-
lar, the researchers looked at participants' diets, including their cof-
fee consumption.
After 13 years of close observation, the researchers found that of
the 38,000 participants, 157 people developed cancer of the mouth,
pharynx and esophagus. Then, they discovered that compared with
people who didn't drink coffee, those who consumed one or more
cups per day proved to be half as likely to develop these oral cancers.
BRIAN TENGEL

READ-ER-
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest




V_ V V www


-T

-w

--

.W

w

w

w

w

w

w

v

I B TeMcia al W dedy aur 1 009

Wensay aury2,20 9 -Te ihga al ,'A -

GREASINGTHE WHEELS
The Detroit Three used to be big-time benefactors to the University. But needing a technological edge in the face of
economic uncertainty, automakers are looking to the school for more than good will.

As difficult as it might be
to imagine today, there was a
time when people worried the
domestic auto industry was giv-
ing the University of Michigan
too much money.
It was 1923, less than two
decades after the founding of the
Ford Motor Company, and the
pioneers of Michigan's booming
automotive industry had already
begun pouring money into their
state's flagship university.
Upton Sinclair, an eminent
muckraking journalist of the
day, nicknamed the University
of Michigan "the University of
Automobiles" - suggesting that
the influence of the auto indus-
try could corrupt the academic
independence of the University.
"The University of Michigan
is another of these huge educa-
tional department stores," he
wrote, "a by-product of the sud-
den prosperity of the automobile
business."
Indeed, two of Ford's initial
shareholders, James Couzens
and Horace Rackham, were two
of the University's biggest bene-
factors.
Couzens gave the Univer-
sity $600,000 in 1923 for the
construction of a dormitory -
Couzens Residence Hall - on
what was then the campus's
northeastern fringe. A decade
later, Rackham's wife Mary gave

the University $2.5 million for
the constructionofthe Rackham
Building and another $4 million
for graduate-level research, pro-
viding the foundation for the
University's Rackham School of
Graduate Studies.
Auto industry money helped
grow the University to its cur-
rent size and prominence. The
University's Dearborn campus
was created in 1956 after the
Ford Motor Company donated
Henry Ford's 210-acre estate and
$6.5 million to the University,
and a donation from CS. Mott,
an auto industry pioneer who
was once GM's largest share-
holder, helped turn Flint Junior
College into a four-year program
administered by the University.
"The legacy of Ford is evident
in almost this whole campus,"
said Mary Lynn Heininger,
director of corporate relations
at the Dearborn campus. "They
have contributed to who we
are."
And yet, as much as the wealth
of the auto industry shaped the
University through the last cen-
tury,therelationship rarelywent
beyond philanthropy. Despite
their close proximity, the auto
industry and the University of
Michigan typically struggled to
establish lasting research rela-
tionships.
But the University's relation-

ship with the auto industry has MISSED
undergone a fundamental shift OPPORTUNITIES
in the past decade. Michigan's
struggling carmakers have reset University professors and stu-
their priorities, spending mil- dents have conducted research
lions of dollars on new collabor- on automobiles since the early
ative research institutions while days of Michigan's auto industry
cutting back long-standing phil- - although not always with the
anthropic support. level of productivity that could
While philanthropy from have been hoped on either side.
the three companies averaged a "In the past, the Univer-
combined $4.8 million per year sity was not always easy to
between the 2003 and 2008 fis- work with," said John LaFond,
cal years, donations to the Uni- a retired Ford engineer who
versity are on pace dropby about served as the company's devel-
60 percent during the current opment director at the Univer-
fiscal year. sity. "There was a lack of proper
Meanwhile, the Detroit communication. It was difficult
Three gave the University about for the University to see the
$5 million for research last year needs of Ford, for one, and it was
- about 90 percent of all auto difficult for Ford as an automo-
industry research funding. The tive company to get the respon-
trend has continued this year, siveness of the University."
with GM investing heavily in
University research to develop In the late 1920s, the Uni-
electric vehicles like the hotly- versity's automotive engineers
anticipated Chevrolet Volt. worked in a leaky annex to the
Industry-funded research engineering lab - a wooden
continues to makes up a small shed. For much of the century,
fraction of the University's total research projects were scattered
research budget - last year, it among
was $876 million, with the fed- I
eral government footing most of
the bill - but both the Detroit
Three and the University have
discovered that the partner-
Ship's value goes beyond money,
offering the opportunity to
exchange ideas, technology and
talent.
DaryiWeinert, directorofthe
University's Business Engage-
ment Center, said the Michigan
auto industry's philanthropy
over the past century. helped
transform the University into a
"reservoir of interesting ideas"
and one that can now help
Detroit's automakers solve their
long-term challenges.
"This is a place where new
ideas get formed, and the auto
industry right now, they need
that," Weinert said. "If they're
going to find a way out of the
current situation,it'llbe through
innovation, and therefore, our
research interactions are
really a win-win for
both sides." ,

faculty and departments, with
fewlong-term projects and little
central coordination.
Examples of the divide
between academia and indus-
try can be found in the dusty
archives of the University's
now-defunct Engineering
Research Institute, formed in
1948 to coordinate externally
funded research.
In 1955, Mechanical Engi-
neering Prof. R.G Folsom and
GM engineers developed a plan
to build a cutting-edge wind
tunnel where Folsom and col-
leagues could perform research
on vehicle aerodynamics.
GM's budget committee
had already approved the proj-
ect, but in June 1955, a letter
arrived from an attorney in the
company's patent division. The
research proposal had been
rejected.
The attorney cited a clause
in the contract that allowed the
University to publish research
without explicit permission
from GM. The research was of
a sensitive nature, he wrote,

By Gabe Nelson Daily Staff Writer

and the company didn't want
University faculty spilling trade
secrets.
Folsom, also the director of
the Engineering Research Insti-
tute, suggested that the contract
be changed so GM would have
the authority to reject the pub-
lication of research.
He met opposition from
administrators, including Col-
lege of Engineering Dean G.G.
Brown and University President
Harlan Hatcher, who acknowl-
edged that taking a hard line on
contracts would hinder indus-
try relationships but said the
University shouldn't allow a
sponsor to censor the publica-
tion of research for the benefit
of science.
Negotiations stalled, and
General Motors moved on.
Folsom continued to seek an
explanation from GM, and in
early 1957, one of the company's
researchers sent him a friendly
letter explaining what had gone

wrong. Disappointed, but with-
out a hint of bitterness, Folsom
wrote back.
"I believe this is very regret-
table, in view of our close geo-
graphical location and a desire
on both our parts to cooperate
for our mutual advantage," he
wrote. "I hope this unfortunate
experience will not deter either
of us from exploring possibili-
ties of mutual research activi-
ties in the near future. Thank
you for your continued interest
in the University."
By the next year, Folsom had
accepted an appointment at
Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute in Troy, N.Y., which had a
more flexible research relation-
ship with the auto industry.
"I was very happy to hear that
there are excellent relationships
between Rensselaer and Gener-
al Motors and it is my hope that
this cooperation will continue
to grow and prove of mutual
benefit," he wrote.

At the time, schools like INVESTING NOW TO to develop engine technologies
Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti- SURVIVE TOMORROW that increase fuel economy and
tute and Cornell University did reduce emissions - innovations
more to placate corporations. Assanis called "the new DNA of
GM had signed a contract for On a snowy afternoon last the automobile."
the wind tunnel with Cornell, week, dozens of students fiddled The engine systemslab, one of
which agreed not to publish the at computer consoles as engines 12 GM-sponsored Collaborative
research for five years after the hummed behind closed doors Research Laboratories (CRLs)
end of the contract without per- at the University of Michigan's worldwide, grew out of the GM/
mission. Walter E. Lay Automotive Labo- UM Satellite Research Labora-
Michigan's automakers ratory. tory, created in 1998 to oversee
poured their wealth into the In this industrial hallway are joint research between the two
University's buildings, schools the innovative young engineers institutions.
and symphonies, but when it who will develop the technolo- Ford followed suit in 2006,
came to research, they largely gies of tomorrow - or so com- creating a partnership called the
sought. more flexible partners panies like Ford and GM hope. Ford-UM Innovation Alliance.
elsewhere: The University was Within the past decade, both The company has given the Uni-
content, thriving on the robust companies have begun funding versity $5 million for ongoing
appropriations made possible by long-term collaborative research research since the start of the
the state's strong economy. projects, spending more than partnership.
All that has changed in the $20 million combined since Todd Fansler, a group man-
past few decades, LaFond said. 1998. ager at GM's combustion sys-
"It wasn't the highest priority Many of the students on the tems research laboratory and
for the administrations of the Lay Laboratory's first floor work co-director of the University's
University and the Ford Motor for the University's Collab- GM-sponsored engine systems
Company to grow these relation- orative Research Laboratory in lab, said the close proxim-
ships," LaFond said. "But over Engine Systems Research.Fund- ity between the University and
the years at the University and ed by GM and led by Mechani- GM's headquarters hasfostered
Ford, the people who controlled cal Engineering Prof. Dennis a strong research relationship
these organizationsbegan to see Assanis, the laboratory aims between them.
the value of them." He said GM engineers try to
meet with their project groups
at least once a month, but
because Ann Arbor is less than
an hour away, researchers can
get together to discuss projects
more frequently.
"Internet meetings and tele-
conferencesaregreat,butthere's
nothing like sitting around the
table in one conference room
and seeing one another face to
face on a regular basis," Fansler
said.
Last year, the three CRLs
based at the University received
about $2.5 million, up from the
$1.1 million originally allocated
for the original satellite labora-
tory ten years earlier. Because
the CRLs are meant to func-
tion as partnerships, about half
of GM's money goes toward
research suggested by GM and
the rest funds research pro-
posed by University faculty and
students, Assanis said.
"The students have the best
ideas," he said.
Assanis's lab has used its

CHARITY ON THE DECLINE
Philanthropy from GM, Ford and Chrysler (combined)
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Year
*The three companies gave more than $1 million in the period from July 1, 2008
through January 7, 2009. If they continue giving money at the same ratethrough
the end of June, this would be the total for the 2009 fiscal year.

RESEARCH FUNDING ON THE RISE
Annual basefundinglfor General Motors/University of Michigan collaborative
research projects over the past 11 years
3.0 r

expertise in engine modeling
and simulation to help develop
GM's homogeneous-charge
compression ignition engine
(HCCI), a fusion of diesel and
gasoline engine technology that
increases fuel economy by about
15 percent and reduces emis-
sions.
But because the engine is
highly sensitive to tempera-
ture and pressure, it only works
under a very specific set of cir-
cumstances.
Last week in Assanis's lab,
four engineering graduate stu-
dents crowded around a con-
trol panel to monitor an HCCI
engine running in the next
room. GM provided the engine
and the funding for the research
project, an effort to devise valve-
timing schemes that expand the
range of conditions in which the
engine works.
GM demonstrated the tech-
nology last summer using a
Saturn Aura concept car. Sev-
eral carmakers are developing
the engine, but none have yet
announced plans to market it in
a vehicle.
Despite the strain of grow-

ing debt, GM recently renewed
contracts with two of the labs,
promising $6 million over the
next five years. This year, the
company must decide whether
to extend its contract with the
third laboratory, which studies
smart materials.
Fansler said GM's decision to
continue the partnership despite
the company's financial duress
shows faith that the University
will help the company attain
the technology necessary to stay
competitive.
"That we renewed the two
CRLs late last year, at a time
when our finances were not
looking very good and when we
were under a lot of public scruti-
ny, is a mark of how much value
we place on the research rela-
tionship with the University of
Michigan," he said.
STUDENTS OF
INDUSTRY
Askanyonewholivedthrough
the Great Depression - when
times get tough, people squeeze
See DETROIT THREE, Page 6B

--_-_-/

.-.
.
._,
0
.

2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0

1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009
Year


