EIie Midigan &aiI

)NE-HUNDRED-NINETEEN YEARS OF E

IL FREEDOM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, March 31, 2009

michigandaily.com

CREAMED CORN CONSTRUCTION

UNDERAGE DRINKING
Bill to alter
MIP laws
proposed

KRISTA BOYD/Daily
To celebrate Greek Week, members of the Team Iron Man pose with their winning canned food sculpture. The Canned Food Castle contest pitted members of campus sorori-
ties and fraternities against one another to see who has the greatest architectural prowess with creamed corn, green beans and crushed tomatoes. To compete, members of the
sorority and fraternity groups had to bring in a minimum of 250 cans to build their castle. The entries were then judged by kids from the Peace and Neighborhood Center.
ANN ARBOR'S NATIONAL BOOKSELLER
Tough day ahead for Borders

Plan would protect
underage drinkers
who bring sick
friends to hospital
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
Under current Michigan law,
underage party-going students
who bring a drunk friend in need
of medical attention to a hospital
are fair game to be charged with a
minor in possession.
But state Sen. Liz Brater
(D-Ann Arbor) introduced a bill
in the Michigan Senate last week
that could change that.
Senate Bill 408, which is being
considered by the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee, would protect
minors who seek help for individ-
uals in need of medical attention
as a result of excessive alcohol
consumption - regardless of age.
Though Brater said she hopes
the bill will help save lives and
keep minors from fearing the
repercussions of calling 911 or
taking a friend to the hospital, she
added the bill is not designed to
excuse underage drinking.
"The bill is very narrowly con-
structed. It physically allows a
safe harbor for a minor in pos-
session who goes for medical
assistance for another minor in
possession in need of medical
assistance," Brater said. "It in no
way allows underage drinking

and it does not condone underage
drinking."
Though this is Brater's second
attempt to get the bill through
the Michigan legislature, it
comes several months after 134
college presidents and chancel-
lors expressed their support for
the Amethyst Initiative - which
called for a reconsideration of the
national drinking age of 21 - as a
means of cutting down on under-
age binge drinking.
According to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Health and Human Ser-
vices, more than 1,700 college
students between the ages of 18
and 24 die every year from alco-
hol-related causes. The statistics
also show that more than 12 per-
cent of people between the ages
of 18 and 20 have alcohol depen-
dencies.
Brater said the bill is not
designed to encourage minors to
drink, but rather to protect those
who make the mistake of consum-
ing too much and putting them-
selves in a potentially dangerous
situation.
"We want to make sure that
people in need of medical care are
able to receive it," Brater said.
Dr. Jeffrey Desmond, the emer-
gency medicine service chief at the
University of Michigan, told the
Daily in2007that University Hospi-
tal does not have a policy of contact-
ing police when underage drinkers
seek medical attention. Desmond
added that police are only contact-
ed if there is evidence to suggest
See DRINKING, Page 7

Company expected to
release weak fourth
quarter report today
By MATT AARONSON
Daily StaffReporter
Ann Arbor-based book giant
Borders Group Inc. will release its
fourth-quarter earningsreport after
the market closes this afternoon.
Anticipation for the report is high

in the midst of financial turmoil for
the once-dominant retailer.
Borders management will
address investors and analysts in a
conference call tomorrow at 8 a.m.,
where it is expected that officials
will outline the company's new
business strategy.
Already facing sliding sales and a
daunting debt load, Borders tried to
find a buyer and failed last March.
In early January, shortly after
revealing that sales for its usually
stellar 9-week holiday period were

down 11.7 percent from the previ-
ous year, the company replaced its
CEO and a number of other high-
level managers.
With the economy working
against them, the new team has
so far struggled to turn things
around.
Since the beginning of the year,
nearly 900 Borders employees
have lost their jobs. The company
has also announced several store
closings, including high-profile
locations in Chicago on Michigan

Avenue and in downtown Detroit.
Borders Group stock, which
traded mostly in the $20 to $25
range between 2004 and 2006, has
been on the decline since. The stock
closed at $.65 per share yesterday,
and is facing the possibility of del-
isting from the stock exchange.
At the annual meetingscheduled
to be held in May, shareholders will
be asked to approve a reverse stock
split, which would consolidate
individual shares to increase value
See BORDERS, Page 7


THE STUDENTS' ADMINISTRATOR
After long search, 'U'
names dean of students

Valuing flavor, Comet Coffee
hones its craft one cup at a time

Year-long process
ends with selection
of former U. of
* Oregon official
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily News Editor
More than a year after it began
searching for a new dean of stu-
dents, the University named Dr.
Laura Blake Jones to the position.
Pending approval by the Board
of Regents - simply a procedural

step - Blake Jones will become
the associate vice president for stu-
dent affairs and dean of students.
Blake Jones is
currently the
interim dean of
students at the
University of
Oregon.
In a press
release, Vice
President for BLAKE JONES
Student Affairs
E. Royster Harper said Blake Jones
is well prepared for the job.
"Dr. Blake Jones brings a wealth
of experience in student affairs and

leadership," Harper said. "Michi-
gan students and the University
will benefit from her previous
involvement in emergency and
critical incident management, stra-
tegic planning and diversity educa-
tion and support."
The selection of Blake Jones fol-
lowed a second round search by the
advisory committee, which failed
to find a candidate to fill the spot
last year. At the time, a number of
candidates visited campus to inter-
view, but no hire was made.
The committee resumed its
efforts in October with the help
See DEAN, Page 7

EXPLAINING THE RECESSION
In subprime lending meltdown, 'U'
professor faults statistical models

Each cup ofjoe at
Nickels Arcade shop
is made to order
By ANNIE THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
Joining the ranks of specialty
stores in Nickels Arcade, a recent-
ly opened coffee shop is brewing
something new for Ann Arbor and
taking the city's mass-produced
coffee scene head on.
Touching on his 16 years of
experience asa barista, Ann Arbor
native Jim Saborio, owner of two-
week-old Comet Coffee, brings an
individual focus to his new estab-
lishment, brewing each cup as
customers order it.
"Comet Coffee is just about tak-
ing a real quality focus on coffee
and not making any compromises
in terms of that," Saborio said.
Compared to traditional coffee-
brewing methods, Saborio takes
more of a scientific approach,
using Asian traditions to hand
brew each cup to perfection.
Inthetealwalledshoplastweek,
Saborio said that even though he
isn't completely sure of the exact
method behind the Asian brewing
concept, he improvises and learns
along the way.
The coffee is prepared using
water at precise temperatures and
filtered through porcelain cones
imported from Japan. According
to Saborio, the concept of brew-
ing each cup individually allows

Customers near the recently opened Comet Coffee in Nickels Arcade.

Reliance on hard
data painted
inaccurate portrait
* of loan applicants
By VALIANT LOWITZ
Daily StaffReporter
One University professor claims
he has identified a main culprit of

the housing collapse at the center
of the country's current economic
crisis.
In a study, Uday Rajan, an associ-
ate professor of finance at the Ross
School of Business, found that the
statistical models used by banks to
assess which loan applicants may
default on their loans played a para-
inount role in undermining many of
this country's financial institutions.
In determining which loan appli-
cants would likely default on their

loans, Rajan found that many of
these models relied too heavily on
'hard' information (credit scores,
etc.) as opposed to 'soft' informa-
tion (situational factors in the appli-
cant's life).
Rajan's study concluded that
models tended to rely so heavily on
hard information because it was
thought to be more credible than soft
information when risky loans were
repackaged and sold to investors.
See SUBPRIME, Page 7

the coffee to hold its more subtle
flavors.
The process begins by grind-
ing the beans and placing them
in a wet paper filter. Inside of the
porcelain cones Saborio uses hot
water heated to 204 degrees, a
temperature he says home coffee
brewers rarely reach, and pours it
slowly over the grounds.
At first only a little water is
poured over the grounds, allowing
the water to infuse with the coffee
preventing a weak cup. A stream
of the water is then poured over
the grounds, stirring the coffee as
it slowly drips into the cup below.
From bean to cup, the process
takes about four minutes. Because

of the individual brewing meth-
od, the coffee has no hold time
between creation and consump-
tion. This is where the store most
radically differs from mass brew-
ers - including Starbucks - who
hold coffee for up to 24 minutes.
"Most coffee shops will take
coffee and put it into some ther-
mal carafe or something that holds
it at a certain temperature without
adding heat," Saborio said. "I find
that within 15 minutes a lot of the
more delicate notes in the coffee
will start to wither away."
Looking at the coffee in the fil-
ter, Saborio explained that coffee
aficionados can read signs about
See COMET, Page 7


WEATHER HI: 51 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO: 36 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYZC6M
Reward now $1,000 for info about W. Quad arson
MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS................... 2 ARTS..................................5
Vol. CXIX, No.120 SUDOKU ...........................3 CLASSIFIEDS ...................... 6
©2009TheMichigan Daily OPINION... . . 4 SPORTS.................. . ..9
michigondailycom

I i


2 - Tuesday, March 31, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

i


MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters

WEDNESDAY:
Explained

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

WI4100 Dal
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com

Grilling with a grin

Students who frequent the Ross
School of Business's Seigle Cafe are
0 E probably usedto being greeted by the
smiling face and friendly attitude of
Archie "Chello" Smyers, who works
behind the grill and does whatever
it takes to keep students' stomachs
filled.
Smyers, who has been a regular
at the Business School for the past
three years, said he believes his ami-
able demeanor makes people feel
comfortable around him.
V s k"I think I'm a nice guy," Smy-
ers said. "I am a great communica-
tor and motivator. I get along with
everybody."
Working in food is something
about which Smyers is passionate.
cCH RIS DZOMBAK/Oaly Not only does he work at the Univer-
Archie Smyers has been the chef at the Ross School of sity, but he is also the head of food
Business for the past three years. service for the National Guard in the
MORE ONLINE state of Michigan.
>ENN NEPrior to his career at the Business
For a video of this week's campus character, School, Smyers attended Eastern
check out michigondaily.com. Michigan University on a track and

fieldscholarship.Whenhischildhood
dream of being an Olympic track star
didn't come true, he altered his ambi-
tions and began a career in the food
business.
Smyers has worked for the Nation-
al Guard - based in Lansing - for
the past 13 years. He goes to Lansing
one weekend a month to cook and
was recently promoted.
"I went from being just a regular
cook to running the whole show for
the state of Michigan for food ser-
vice," said Smyers. "That's a dream
job. A lot of people have been there
20 to 25 years and would die tobe in
the position Iam in Lansing."
Smyers said a perk of being in
the military is that he has had the
opportunity to travel to exotic places
including Panama, Costa Rica and
Germany.
Despite his military work and other
accomplishments, Smyers said he
hopes to ultimately run a food facility
like the one at the Business School.

CRIME NOTES
Woman falls off
bike, injures leg
WHERE: Murfin Street
WHEN: Sunday at about 9
a.m.
WHAT: A woman fell and
injured her leg while riding
her bike on North Campus,
University Police reported.
An ambulance was requested
but the woman refused treat-
ment. Police assistance was
provided.
$7510-speed
bike lifted from
Northwood V
WHERE: Northwood V
WHEN: Sunday at about 1:45
p.m.
WHAT: A grey, women's
10-speed bike valued at $75
was stolen from Northwood
V, University Police reported.
The victim reported that the
bike was locked.

Phone reported
stolen, victim
disappears
WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 8:15
p.m.
WHAT: An unidentified vic-
tim reported their cell phone
was stolen, University Police
reported. When police arrived
to investigate, they could not
locate the victim.
Unattended
wallet stolen
WHERE: Earl V. Moore Buld-
ing
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:30
p.m.
WHAT: A student reported
that an unattended wallet con-
taining credit cards, gift cards
and $15 was stolen, University
Police reported. Police have no
suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Presentation Bacon to deliver
on the work of Golden Apple
Walt Whitman Lecture

"It's fun meeting the people, the
IBA students, just talking about the
lifferent things that come through
he grill - what they did the night
efore, like this past St. Patty's day,"
Smyers said. "Just the basic chit
:hat."
When Smyers is not working at the
nilitary or.on the grill, he enjoys jog-
ing, playing golf and spending time
with his 5-year-old daughter who he
lans to take to Walt Disney World.
For a person who spends his days
urrounded by food, his personal
avorites are pepper steak and key
ime pie.
Every morning, Smyers said he
ooks forward to coming to work.
n his three years at the Business
chool, Smyers said he has only
aissed one day.
"You spend 80 percent of your life
t a job so you might as well enjoy
t," Smyers said. "It's not a job, it's a
social hour.". -
- LINDSAYKRAMER
TH REE THINGS YU
1 UThe Department of Public
Safety has increased the
reward to $1,000 for the
person of interest connected to
the fire lastweek in West Quad.
DPS has also posted a video
clip of the person of interest on
its website.
While the Ross School
of Business has plans
to change its finance
curriculum, school officials
say they don't have plans to
revamp courses in ethics.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Scientists at the National
Ignition Facility of the
Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory in Califor-
nia have built a laser capable of
simulating the energyforce of a
hydrogen bomb or the sun. The
Energy Department is expect-
ed to approve future tests with
the laser later today.

WHAT: An examination of
the University Library's first-
edition copy of Walt Whit-
man's "Leaves of Grass."
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today from noon to
1:15 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Room 100
Lecture on the
evolution of
influenza
WHAT: A talk on the devel-
opment of the virus around
the world among various
species.
WHO: Department of Epide-
miology
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m. to
5 p.m.
WHERE: School of Public
Health, Room 1152

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
PhotographyDepartment
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
finance

finance@michigandaity.com

Office hours Su.-Thus 1a.m. - 2a.m.
newsmoichigandaily.eom
correonsmeichigandaily.ome
tohediy@michigandaily.om
phoo@michigandity, oe
artsgihigadiy.com
opinion@michigandaiy.ome
sportspihigandilyomx
display@michiganedaily.omo
clasifedgihigandily.ome

WHAT: John Bacon, a pro-
fessor of American Culture
and this year's Golden Apple
recipient, will deliver his ideal
last lecture.
WHO: Students Honor-
log Outstanding University
Teaching
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Audito-
rium
Spotlight on
breast cancer
WHAT: Dr. Annette Joe will
speak about mammograms
and breast imagingoptions.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Health System
WHEN: Today from 6:30
p.m. to 8 p.m.
WHERE: 625 North Main St.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmilOVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
Lindy Stevens
SS T NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Kyle Swanson
RobertSoae tditorialePaeEdisor soave@michianeaeily.com
ASSOCIATEmEDITOIALAEDITmORS:aEmil ro,Breian lahery ,ahel VanGider
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
ASSSTA" TSPORTSEDITORS:RyanKartje,IanKay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
Alex Prosperi, Colt Rosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,AndrewLapin,DaveReap,BenVanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Cif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,RobMigrin,SamWolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopyChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboer OisplayAdvertisingsalesManager
DSPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Cristie Phillips
Ryan Basinski classified sales Manager
ClassifiedSalesAssistantManager:Alison Thomas
MarissaGerber onlinesalesManager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daily(ISN0745-967)is published Monday through Friday duringthefalland winter
termsbystudentsattheUniversityo Michigan.One copyis avalablefreeotchargetoallreaders.
Additionacopiesmaybe pickedupattheDaly'soffice for$2.subscriptionsfor fall and w erterm
(Sspteberessduh AOviaUt.e 0ea mr-ounsscrptio l teingmnd
Sumer se s)arine$201. SuscriptionsmustO be preai.The Michigan mily isva:ember of Thn
Associate PresanThe AssociateCiateress~.


0

Win an all-expenses-paid shadowing
opportunity in Chicago this spring!
Dream jobs-alumni have them. And we can hook you up with
Michigan Apprentice, a free one-day shadowing opportunity with
high-profile alumni. The Alumni Association will help you prepare
for your next stage in life even before you graduate.
Here's your chance for an unforgettable career and personal
development experience with top-notch Michigan alumni. If you're
a junior or senior you could be selected for an all-expenses-paid
one-day internship.
Here are the spring 2009 Michigan Apprentice opportunities:
" Mark Silverman, '91, president of the Big Ten Network
" Brian Kerwin, '86, co-vice chair of the law firm of Duane Morris, LLP.
" Jennifer Golomb, '99, marketing manager of the Altoids brand at the
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
" Robert R. Bellick, '87, co-founder of Wolverine Trading, LLC
* David S. Evans, '85, chairman of Glencoe Limited, LLC, a Chicago-
based merchant bank.

0

Application deadline is Sunday, April 5.
Get details on how to apply at
www.umalumni.com/students.

ALUMNIASSOCIATION
uNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

0



t


9 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 31 2009 -- 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Henderson takes
the reins at GM
General Motors Corp.'s new
chief executive said yesterday
there's a greater risk that the
company will have to reorganize
through bankruptcy, because of
greater demands from the Obama
administration to get debt off its
balance sheet.
Fritz Henderson told reporters
on aconferencecall thatthe compa-
ny would still prefer to restructure
outside of court, but the various
support mechanisms Obama out-
lined yesterday would provide a
better cushion for the company
to reorganize under a court-order
bankruptcy if necessary.
"We were encouraged, we talk-
ed to the auto task force about ulti-
mately bringingthe consumer back
in the game," he said.
O President Obama said he would
give GM additional days to present
and make progress on restructur-
ing plans that are expected to go
further than what was submitted
in Feburary. He also introduced
a program that would guarantee
warranties of GM and Chrysler
LLC vehicles going forward, and
would allow people purchasing
new cars this year to write off the
sales and excise tax of the vehicle.
"We understand what the game
plan is," Henderson said. "Whether
out of court or in court, either way,
they'll be there to support us."
DETROIT
* City newspapers
cut back on delivery
Michigan's two largest newspa-
pers were missing from front porch-
es yesterday as the Detroit Free
Press and The Detroit News began
an era of reduced home delivery
and announced a plan to eventually
transmittheirprinteditionstothou-
sands of new electronic devices.
The newspapers were hawked
for free on sidewalks and streets
for one day only to remind people
that the News and Free Press
are not going out of business but
undergoing significant change at a
time of vanishing ad revenue and a
deep recession.
The papers will continue to be
printedandsoldeachday,buthome
deliveryis limited to Thursday, Fri-
day and Sunday, the biggest ad days
of the week. Subscribers can see
the exact print version online on
* any day, and free content is avail-
able atfreep.comanddetnews.com.
DUND, Afghanistan
Suicide bomber's
attack kills nine
A suicide bomber wearing a
police uniform blew himself up
inside a police headquarters in
southern Afghanistan yesterday,
killing nine people and wounding
eight, an official said.
Five officers and four civilians
died in the attack in Dund district,
about10 miles (15kilometers) south
of Kandahar city, the Interior Min-
istry said in a statement.

The attack comes as the United
States prepares to send 21,000
additional troops to Afghanistan
to bolster the 38,000 American
forces already in the country.
President Barack Obama last week
announced a new strategy for the
Afghanistan-Pakistan region with
a goal to "disrupt, dismantle and
defeat" al-Qaida.
Intotal,there arearecord 70,000
internationalforcesinAfghanistan.
BOSTON
Cops shoot boy who
killed his sisters
Two sisters and the brother who
killed them with a kitchen knife
will share a single funeral service
and be buried together.
Samantha Revelus, 17, and her
sister, Bianca, 5, were killed at their
Milton home Saturday. Police shot
the girls' brother, Kerby Revelus,
23, after an officer saw him decapi-
tate the younger girl. A surviving
sister, 9-year-old Saraphina, was
recovering at a Boston hospital
Monday after having surgery.
Ernst Guerrier, a Boston attor-
ney and family friend, said he
spent Monday morning with par-
ents Regine and Vronze Revelus as
they made plans to bury the three
together.
"They are still dealing with the
shock and disbelief of losing three
of their children," said Guerrier.
Guerriersaidtherewasnothingto
indicate Kerby Revelus "was capable
of something like this or that this
tragedy could have been prevented."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama rejects auto plans, demands cuts

GM gets 60 days,
Chrysler gets 30 days
to restructure
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama asserted
unprecedented government con-
trol over the auto industry yester-
day, bluntly rejecting turnaround,
plans by General Motors Corp. and
Chrysler LLC, demanding fresh
concessions for long-term federal
aid and raising the possibility of
quick bankruptcy for either ailing
auto giant.
Obama took the extraordinary
step of announcing the govern-
ment will back new car warranties
issued by both GM and Chrysler,
an attempt to reassure consumers
their U.S.-made purchases will be
protected even if the companies
don't survive.
"I am absolutely committed to
working with Congress and the
auto companies to meet one goal:
The United States of America will
lead the world in building the next
generation of clean cars," Obama
said in his first extended remarks
on the industry since taking office
nearly 10 weeks ago. And yet, he
added, "our auto industry is not
moving in the right direction fast
enough to succeed."
Obama, flanked by several

administration officials at the
White House, announced a short-
term infusion of cash for the firms,
and said it could be the last for one
or both.
Chrysler, judged by the admin-
istration as too small to survive,
got 30 days' worth of funds to com-
plete a partnership with Fiat SpA,
the Italian manufacturer, or some
other automaker.
GM got assurances of 60 days'
worth of federal financing to try
and revise its turnaround plan
undernewmanagementwith heavy
government participation. That
would involve concessions from its
union workers and bondholders.
The administration engineered the
ouster of longtime CEO Rick Wag-
oner over the weekend, an indica-
tion of its deep involvement in an
industry that once stood as a sym-
bol of American capitalism.
Obama's announcement under-
scored the extent to which auto-
makers have been added to the list
of large corporations now operat-
ing under a level of government
control that seemed unthinkable
less than a year ago. Since last
fell, the Bush and Obama admin-
istrations, often acting in concert
with the Federal Reserve, have
engineered the takeover of hous-
ing titans Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, seized a large stake in several
banks and installed a new CEO at

bailed-out insurance giant Ameri-
can International Group.
Other presidents have forced
showdowns with major industries,
with mixed results. Harry Tru-
man's decision to nationalize the
steel industry on the eve of a strike
in 1952 was ruled unconstitutional
by the Supreme Court. But Ronald
Reagan succeeded in busting the
air traffic controllers' union three
decades later.
The latest addition to the list,
the once-proud auto industry, has
struggled with foreign competi-
tion for more than a generation,
then was further battered by the
recession and credit crisis grip-
ping the economy. Obama said
400,000 industry jobs have been
lost in the past year alone, many in
Michigan.
Under Fritz Henderson, newly
named as CEO, General Motors
issued a statement saying it hopes
to avoid bankruptcy, but will "take
whatever steps are necessary to
successfully restructure the com-
pany, which could include a court-
supervised process."
Chrysler Chairman Bob Nardelli
sought to assure customers, deal-
ers, suppliers and employees that
the automaker "will operate 'busi-
ness as usual' over the next 30
days" while working closely with
the government and Fiat to secure
the support of stakeholders.

Speaking from the White House, President Barack Obama calls on the auto indus
try yesterday to make further cuts in exchange for long-term federal aid.

Int'l. conference aims
to bring stability to
Afghanistan, region

Rescue workers carry an injured Pakistani police officer outside a police training school on the outskirts of Lahore, Pakistan yes-
terday. Gunmen armed with rifles and hand grenades attacked a the school Monday, killing 11 officers and wounding dozens.
Sdie in bloody siege at
Paklstan police academy

Meeting of 72 nations
convened hastily,
despite lofty goals
THE HAGUE, Netherlands
(AP) - A 72-nation conference on
Afghanistan will launch a broader
international commitment to the
security of the region, including
neighboring Pakistan, special
U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke
said yesterday.
The hastily convened confer-
ence opening today in this Dutch
city brings together all the coun-
tries bordering Afghanistan,
including Iran, and all nations
contributing troops to the NATO-
led international force fighting
Taliban insurgents.
It will be opened by U.N. Sec-
retary-General Ban Ki-moon and
Afghan President Hamid Rarzai.
"We have great expectations,"
Karzai said after arriving yester-
day night. "I'm sure there will be
support for Afghanistan ... and
that together, Afghanistan and
the international community
will strive and succeed towards
the completion of this journey
together."
With the meeting scheduled
to last just seven hours including
lunch, few countries will be able to
give a nuanced analysis on the con-
ference's stated theme: a compre-
hensive review of Afghan strategy
in a regional context. Most will not

have a chance to speak at all.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary
Clintonwas expectedtooutlinethe
policy review unveiled last week
by President Barack Obama. The
president said he will send an extra
17,000 soldiers and 4,000 advisers
to train Afghan military forces,
plus hundreds more civilians to
work on development issues. More
than half of the 70,000 troops now
in Afghanistan are Americans.
Despite its brevity, Holbrooke
said the "big tent meeting" in The
Hague is "tremendously impor-
tant," and its success already was
guaranteed by the lengthy list of
attendees.
"The very fact that they are here
signals that the world has not for-
gotten Afghanistan, and that now
we know that Pakistan is part of
the issue," he said.
Of the 73 nations invited, only
Uzbekistan has declined to come,
organizers said Monday.
Holbrooke called the confer-
ence "the launch point for the
international recommitment to
the effort in Afghanistan and
western Pakistan."
Unlike previous international
conferences, the Hague meeting
was not intended to raise money or
troops - issues that may be raised
at subsequent meetings including a
NATO summit next weekend.
But Holbrooke said the U.S.
administration is devoting much
thought to financing the Afghan
operation.

- Pakistan security
officials say militant
groups destabilizing
the country
LAHORE, Pakistan (AP) -
Black-clad Pakistani commandos
overpowered a group of militants
who had seized a police academy,
took cadets hostage and killed
at least six of them yesterday
in a dramatic challenge to the
civilian government that faces
U.S. pressure to defeat Islamic
extremists.
The security forces stormed
the compound on the outskirts of
Lahore to end the eight-hour siege
by the grenade-throwing gun-
men, with three militants blow-
ing themselves up and authorities
arresting four, officials said. At
least three other unidentified bod-
ies were recovered.
Pakistan's top civilian security
official said militant groups were
"destabilizing the country," sug-
gesting the plot may have originat-
ed with Pakistani Taliban leader

Baitullah Mehsud.
Meanwhile, a Taliban member
claiming to speak on behalf of a
shadowylittle-knowngroup called
the Fedayeen al-Islam said it was
behind the attack.
Earlier this month, gunmen
ambushed Sri Lanka's cricket team
in Lahore, killing seven people and
underscoring militants' ability to
wreak havoc far from Pakistan's
northwestern regions bordering
Afghanistan where al-Qaida and
the Taliban have proliferated.
Both Lahore attacks followed a
crackdown on the Pakistani group
Lashkar-e-Taiba, blamed for the
November 2008 siege in Mumbai,
India, that killed 164. There has
been speculation that Monday's
raid was revenge for the crack-
down.
The primary victims of both
attacks were Pakistan's under-
manned and underequipped
police, a militant strategy that
appears designed to expose state
institutions as weak.
Pakistan's inability to prevent
the attack appeared to be an intel-
ligence failure. Nonetheless, a mas-
sive response was quickly mounted

yesterday, one that included army
soldiers, armored vehicles and
helicopters.
The siege ended after security
forces cornered several militants
on the top floor of a building in the
compound, where the gunmen had
held about 35 hostages. Afterward,
the security forces fired their guns
in the air in celebration, shouting
"God is great!"
"The eight hours were like eight
centuries," said Mohammad Sal-
man, 23, a recruit who had holed
up in the building. "It was like I
died several times. I had made up
my mind that it was all over."
Interior MinistrychiefRehman
Malik suggested the culprit could
have been Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a
Punjab-based, al-Qaida-linked
Sunni extremist group implicat-
ed in several other attacks in the
country.
Lashkar-e-Jhangvi is one of sev-
eral militant groups that operate
well beyond Pakistan's northwest.
Some of them, including Lashkar-
e-Taiba, have their roots in the
Kashmir dispute with India, and
Pakistani spy agencies are believed
to have helped establish them.

II I
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
Corona/Dos Equis Specials All Night
$2 c wf enarase & a vodkf Drinks g
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
Jagor BomE Soc as 10 to Close
F30 ae Sa14 600 o e Wt K yar USt~w


4 - Tuesday, March 31, 2009 1 11T iga

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T HE DAILY
Bringing ethics back
'U' should expand focus on ethics in academic curricula
J there has been only one major lesson taught to us in the past
year, it's that a handful of shady leaders and a culture of uneth-
ical behavior can wreak uncontrollable havoc. From Bernie
Madoff to Kwame Kilpatrick to AIG, America's most dramatic
scandals have demonstrated the most basic of lessons: Ethics mat-
ter. As the key nurseries for these future leaders, universities have
a pivotal place in driving that message home, ours included. While
courses are still being planned, the University should encourage
professors and academic departments to integrate ethics into their
classes so that students enter the professional world prepared to
handle the difficult ethical decisions they will inevitably face.

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
We're only human.
They shine a little brighter."
- Steven Syverson, Dean of Admissions at Lawrence University, explaining why colleges are more likely
to accept students who do not apply for aid this year, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
ELAINE MORTONI OUT TO PASTURE E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
eraitsclo I e5 in
CoTC

0

The 'new' War on Drugs

The ethical lapses of American profes-
sionals certainly call into question the
integrity of university educations. As The
New York Times noted in a Mar. 14 article
entitled "Is It Time to Retrain B-Schools?",
business schools must share the blame for
their abject failure to impart a sense of ethi-
cal decency in their students - students who
have gone on to lead the financial world into
ruin for the sake of personal gain. And the
University's own Ross School of Business is
no exception.
The Business School must mount a con-
certed effort to make the discussion of
ethics a substantial part of its curricu-
lum. While some professors have begun to
include ethics discussions in their lectures,
it's up to the University administration to
make sure this is institutionalized. Admin-
istrators and course planners need to keep
in mind the current failings of the business
world and structure classes that will fill this
ethical void. If students aren't being pro-
vided with a proper ethical foundation in
college, they certainly won't catch on when
they enter the business world.
At the University, students are expected
to develop skills that will serve them in the
professional world, and the ability to think
carefully about the implications of their

decisions is an important skill. By incor-
porating ethical considerations into their
everyday lectures, professors will help to
continue the growth of students' knowledge
and give students a strong background in
thinking critically about ethical questions
that might arise before students encounter
them firsthand.
Of course, it's also important to realize
that ethical bankruptcy isn't strictly a phe-
nomena in the business world. In the same
vein, the teaching of ethics shouldn't be lim-
ited to the Business School. Political science
majors should consider the implications of
corruption in government. English majors
should be warned about stealing other writ-
ers' works. Ethical issues arise in every area
of study and the discussion of ethics should
not be limited to any one field. Each aca-
demic subject could stand to gain from an
increased emphasis on ethical education.
Introducing ethical components into
University curricula for every major won't
change human nature or individual ethical
standards. But providing a continued discus-
sion on ethical issues encourages students to
remain sensitive to ethical considerations.
When students start considering the intrica-
cy of ethical issues early, it's less likely they
will succumb to poor decisions.

When hunting for what to
write about, rarely do I
turn to international news
or foreign policy.
It's not that these
topics don't inter-
est me - I just usu-
ally feel like my s
point of view has
usually already =
been noted and dis-
cussed by someone
with more author-
ity on the subject. ROBERT
But after reading a SOAVE
recent article The
Wall Street Jour-
nal (U.S. Defines Its Afghan Strategy,
03/27/09), I couldn't keep silent.
The article outlined President
Barack Obama's plans to bring
Afghanistanunder controlbyincreas-
ing U.S. troop presence, appointing
new military commanders and sup-
plying more funds. According to the
article, "the strategy will effectively
focus U.S. efforts in Afghanistan on
the narrow goal of defeating al Qaeda
and its Taliban allies." This new
policy of Obama's is more narrowly
focused, as opposed to "the Bush
administration's broader nation-
building efforts."
While I have limited enthusiasm
for either the Bush plan or the Obama
plan, my outrage wasn't triggered
until theveryend of the article, where
the plan for handling Afghanistan's
illegal opium trade was detailed.
Farmers who grow opium - an ille-
gal substance used to produce drugs
like heroin and morphine - will be
offered wheat seeds for free from
either Afghan or U.S. officials to start
growing wheat instead of opium.
Then the kicker comes: "If the farm-
ers refuse, U.S. or Afghan personnel
will burn their fields, and then again
offer them free replacement seeds."
Let's repeat that for effect - U.S. per-
sonnel will burn their fields and then

pressure the farmers again. And we
wonder why the Afghan people have
not yet warmed to our presence in
their country.
What's worse is that it doesn't
sound like anyone in the government
is criticizing this plan. In yesterday's
edition of The Wall Street Journal,
an article cited that Obama's plan has
widespread support from Republi-
cans and Democrats in Congress (U.S.
PushesAfghan Planin The Hague This
Week, 03/30/09). Sen. John McCain
even told NBC's Meet the Press that
the he likes the proposal, saying,
"The best way to get out of Afghani-
stan fast is (for) people to think we're
staying."
And we're goingto win by burning
down their fields?
There is no way to bring stabil-
ity to Afghanistan while simultane-
ously promoting an unnecessary war
on drugs in the country, especially
if this involves burning their fields.
Destroying the Afghan people's main
source of livelihood certainly won't
get us out of the country any faster.
According to a Washington Post
article from 2006, the opium trade
represents a third of Afghanistan's
gross domestic product and is up to
twelve times more profitable than
other crops - explaining why farm-
ers might be hesitant to accept the
wheat seeds. The country's economy
is inexorably tied up in the opium
trade, and this won't change as long
as opium production remains illegal.
The U.S. government will claim
that such policies are necessary
because terrorist groups like al-Qae-
da and the Taliban profit from the
lucrative opium trade. But this indus-
try is profitable for them precisely
because it is illegal - farmers must
rely on help from blacklisted groups
(like the terrorists) to make a profit
from their crops.
Thankfully, the International
Council on Security and Develop-

ment, an international think tank,
has the right solution for the Afghan
opium trade. It proposes allow-
ing Afghan farmers to grow opium
legally in order to produce medicines
like morphine, which are in short
supply in much of the developing
world. Some countries, like India, are
already permitted to farm opium for
this purpose. There is no reason to
deny Afghanistan this same right.
The U.S. should
legalize opium in
Afghanistan.
But regardless of what is done
about the legal status of the opium
trade, it's certainly wrong to delib-
erately destroy the livelihoods of
the people of Afghanistan, and I'm
shocked that the Obama adminis-
tration isn't incurring criticism for
such a policy. When Bush advocated
similar policies, politicians in both
parties derided him for his imperial-
ist warmongering. Have these crit-
ics been blinded by Obama's shining *
promises of hope and change?
ThoughI wasn't as optimistic about
an Obama presidency as other stu-
dents, I was at least looking forward
to a departure from the Bush policy
on two wars - the War on Terrorism
and the War on Drugs. In his most
recent Afghanistan policy, Obama *
has made it clear that he intends to
vigorously continue both.
And if the people of Afghanistan
continue to resent the U.S. presence
there, we'll know why.
- Robert Soave is the Daily's
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at rsoave@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

LETTER S THE EDITOR SEN
Environmentalism doesn't
devalue innovation

ID LETTERS TO: T
achickenhowdoy(
you'll probably rec
attempt at a lame j+
a guy say, "You knt
to kill chickens and

TO THE DAILY: from fantasizingab
Victoria Miller's letter to the editor regarding But according to th
Earth Hour (Earth Hour exemplifies anti-pro- should "naturally"
gressive principles, 03/27/2009) was a disturbing food to survive, as t
example of a prideful attitude toward overcon- If the bio-evol:
sumption. While the author should receive credit work for somethini
for putting her blatantselfishness up for the entire food, why would it
University to read, it is terrifying to imagine that and reproduction?
her voice represents the opinions of many. glingto understand
The suggestion that making personal energy feelings about rel
sacrifices is somehow backtracking, "sacrificing little social influen
humanity" or disrespecting the ingenuity of past We may have le
inventors is absolutely absurd. Nobody denies the observing previou
importance of their discoveries, but that does not neither "natural"n
make them appropriate for a sustainable future. sarily follow. The
In fact, it's precisely that type of innovation that disinterested in h
should inspire us to find every possible way to that - an assumpti
reduce our carbon footprints. Such a viewpoint
does not demonstrate appreciation for modern Noveed Safipour
technology but instead demonstrates the danger LSA sophomore
of ignorant and foolish pride. Environmentally
destructive habits are not something to cel- High rises
ebrate.

OTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
oufeel?"Asamale, Icanattest
eive an awkward stare or an
oke. You probably won't hear
ow, I feel this strong impulse
find ithard to restrain myself
out their juicy, tender meat!"
e bio-evolutionary logic, guys
feel the impulse to kill for
heir ancestors did.
utionary reasoning doesn't
g as "natural" as the need for
apply to human relationships
Psychologists are still strug-
d emotions, so to suggest that
ationships are genetic with
ce is misleading.
arned relationship roles by
us generations, but that is
nor something people neces-
assumption that males are
ealthy relationships is just
:ion.
not the solution
using problems
exception to your editorial
ri to look up, 03/30/2009). I
rts to encourage affordable
rtunately, all new buildings
e than old ones - even very
mdly elements only adds to
issed on to residents in the
t. Tall buildings would blight
dscape, especially since stu-
nt population and don't have
.the property.
asily bought into the argu-
rs who are already-making a
e few high-density buildings
Arbor is to attract and retain
eeds to focus on what makes
oups, not just students who
gone tomorrow.

CAROLINA RIZZO I VIEWPOINT
Learning to love Detroit

Kaitlin Henry
LSA freshman
Evolutionary instincts can't
explain relationships

to city's hoi
TO THE DAILY:
I have to take
(Zoning should sta
applaud your effoi
housing, but unfor
are more expensiv

I am one of the 14 members of Semester in Detroit (SID),
a new University program funded by the office of the Pro-
vost, the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, the
Residential College and the Ginsberg Center. This pro-
gram grants undergraduate students at the University the
opportunity to spend a semester living in Detroit, taking
classes and interning with a community-based organiza-
tion. The program's goal is to strengthen the relationship
between the University and the city of Detroit, and to
engage students with a city that needs the creative ener-
gies of young people.
I'm sure that all 14 of us have different motives for being
part of SID. For me, it was an opportunity to live in a new
city and to intern with the Sugar Law Center for Econom-
ic and Social Justice, an organization whose mission and
goals I truly respect. And I haven't been disappointed:
Detroit is like no place else. The first thing I noticed is
that Detroiters, even strangers on the streets, are some of
the nicest people you can interact with. There's a negative
perception of Detroit that would suggest otherwise, but if
you stick around for a while, you will see that Detroit is
really just a big town.
People in coffee shops and restaurants will treat you
like royalty - they will start to remember your name and
your favorite items as you become a regular, as I have at
Avalon International Breads. I'm Carolina, sweet cream
butter scone and large "meaning of life" coffee blend.
Strangers on the streets will say good morning, hello or
start a conversation with you, and they will open the doors
for you as you pass. In the eight years that I've been in the
United States, I've never encountered people friendlier
than those in Detroit.
I've had some very interesting conversations with
strangers in this city - people sitting next to me at Avalon
while I devour my sweet cream butter scone or people sit-
ting at the bar at Cass Cafe ordering the same local beer
I've grown to love (Ghettoblaster, on draft). And it doesn't
take longto learn that Detroit is a city of communities. As
the city tries to recover, communities and personal rela-
tionships thrive.
Population loss to the suburbs and to other states is no

secret here, and as a result, there are too many empty lots
and less than a million people living in a city designed for
two times that many. But on the bright side, those who live
here know and helpeachotherbecause mostofthemcannot
rely on anyone but themselves and the people around them.
Detroit is just that kind of scene, and SID is doing some-
thing even greater than any one of us could have anticipat- 0
ed. It's not only providing the opportunity for University
students to learn in a new city or to put an internship
experience in their resumes - we could do that anywhere.
This program is strengtheningthe bond between Detroit,
and the University and the links between community
organizations rooted in the city. By providing community
organizations with a forum to talk to one another, SID is
increasing its social capital and resources. SID is helping
Detroit lift itself up. And in the process, this program is
teaching us that the best way to help communities is by
assessing what they have and building from there instead
of just focusing on what they lack.
We get to make history, too. Some of us do research in a
class for a play that will be performed by the Mosaic Youth
Theatre so that people won't forget about the 1966 North-
ern Walkout. Some of us have been reading about this city
from the perspective of local writers, and it's inspired us
to create our own literature. Others are learning about
sustainable foods in a city that has too much room and
not enough people. And all of us have taken a ride through
the years of Detroit's urban planning history.
Three months have passed since the moment we signed
our housing contracts at Wayne State and we only have
a month left in Detroit, which means it's time to think
about what we've gotten out of this experience. For me,
the greatest thing is amazement about what can be cre-
ated out of thin air, like magic - it's what happens when
people truly rely on each other.
Thanks, Detroit.
SID is now accepting applications for the Winter 2010
semester. Get the application online at www.semesterin-
detroit.com.
Carolina Rizzo is an LSA senior.

TO THE DAILY: tall new buildings.
Eileen Stahl normally writes progressive col- Adding eco-frie
umns with insights I've often enjoyed reading. the cost that is pa
I was therefore disappointed last Wednesday form of higher rent
when, in her column, she used evolutionary biol- the Ann Arbor lan(
ogy to explain guys' and girls' behaviors in rela- dents are a transier
tionships (Funfearless andflawed, 03/25/2009). avested interest in
The natural-selection-based theory has been You have too e:
cited as evidence for decades to explain wom- ments of developer
en's supposedly "natural" maternal instincts lot of money off the
for raising children. The theory has also been in the city. If Ann A
used, as Stahl implies, to explain why guys new residents, it n
might "naturally" be more interested in sex it livable for all gr
than healthy relationships. are here today and
However, this theory doesn't necessarily apply
to such contexts. A brief experiment shows this. Susan Wineberg
Ask any guy this simple question: "When you see Staff


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cgm

Tuesday, March 31 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cm Tuesday, March 31, 2009 - 5

The neuroses of
mix-making

What is it about making
mixes that's such a
kick in a glass? Sure,
there's the whole
look-how-much-
obscure-music-
I-knnw dynamic,
but that's only
Pfraction of it.
As fun as it is to
assert your hip-
ster status via a JOSH
bomb-ass party BAYER
playlist, the plea-
sures of mix-making far transcend
the social sphere.
There's something immensely
gratifying about compiling a list of
songs you absolutely love and hav-
ing them flow seamlessly together
asa unit. When you christen a list
of five-star tracks under a snappy
title like "Romantic Cynicism"
and listen to your masterwork on
a long car ride, it's hard not to feel
like you wrote the music yourself.
It's the same kind of rush us music
bastards get from meticulously
culling our top-five favorite albums
of all time. While we may not have
personally composed the songs
or records, there's an inexplicable
satisfaction in knowing that these
* are "our" picks, "our" essentials.
Mixes are just another way for us to
jerk off our self-righteousness. Or,
in slightly less cynical terms, they
help usnto therapeutically solidify
our identity.
Whenever I come home ripped
after a party, I'll make a beeline
straight for my iPod and immedi-
ately begin crafting an On-The-Go
playlist (despite the fact I'm going
absolutely nowhere, other than to
bed). I'll spend 20 to30 minutes
under the covers, gleefully skim-
ming my thumb over the dial, plow-
ing through my entire library to
hunt down songs "I absolutely need
to hear right now." Then I'll spend
an additional 15 to 20 minutes chis-
eling down my list to 15 s ongslyes,
I'm compulsive about this number)
that "work" together.
:Bythe time I'm donewiththis'
procedure, my high will have always
completely worn off and I'll listen
to approximately one song and pass
out, wondering why I didn't just
listen to Radiohead. This scenario
repeats itself almost every weekend.
I love mix-making so much that I
make mixes I never even listen to.
But as much asI gush over the
art of mix-making, I must admit
that - as with everything in my
life - the process comes equipped
with its fair share of neuroses. For
instance, I'll survey my collection of
playlists on my iPod and worry I'm
reusing the same bands too often.
Should I really havea Broken Social
Scene song on every single one of
my playlists? Doesn't that make
me look like too much of an "indie
kid"? Shouldn't I throw in at least
one song that wasn't released in the
last 10 years? Shouldn't I be draw-
ing upon my seasoned knowledge of
music instead of predictably slop-
ping down tracks by the same 20 or
so bands (the ones on my Facebook
"favorites")? It doesn't matter that

I'm making these mixes for my
own enjoyment; I am perpetu-
ally plagued by an elitist Jiminy
Cricket.
And these self-induced pres-
sures are magnified 10-fold when
I'm making a mix for someone else:
What if the person already has this
song? Then the person will just skip
over it every time he or she listens
to my mix; that's a waste of a song.
That's awaste of one-fifteenth of
my mix. Maybe I should put on a
more obscure song - something
by Sonic Youth. But this one hasa
noise intro and the intended recipi-
ent will probably get bored and just
skip to the next song anyway. And
so on.
Then there's the type of mix-
making that's both the most nerve-
racking and the most exhilarating:
The kind where you craft a mix to
try to get someone to fall in love
with you. These mixes are incred-
Stroking my
musical ego.
ibly tricky; you have to make the
mix romantic enough so that the
seed is planted, but not so sappy it's
overkill. Although it's technically
not you singing the lyrics in the
songs you compile, you're making
a statement by selecting these par-
ticular tracks.
Hiring Ira Kaplan of Yo La
Tengo to croon "We're on our way
to falling in love" to someone you
haven't even French-kissed yet
can be risky business. Sometimes
the best tactic isnto balance out the
mushy songs with a few "fun" songs
that let the recipient of your mix
know you're not about to propose.
Or you could always just play the
hopeless romantic card and throw
in a handful of jaded "love" songs
ala Elliott Smith. Lyrics like "The
moon is a sickle cell / It will kill
you in time"are sure to reveal your
sensitive side without laying on the
schmaltz.
Some people don't take mix-
making all that seriously, however,
I once received a mix on which
roughly a third of the songs were
by John Mayer (as far as I'm con-
cerned, featuring the same artist
more than once on a mix is strictly
forbidden - unless, of course,
you use the artist to bookend the
compilation). But in this postmod-
ern world, when it can be argued
that true innovation is practically
extinct, the painstakingcollag-
ing of other people's work can be
employed asa pseudo-legitimate
art form (just ask Girl Talk orJohn
Cusack in "High Fidelity"). Hell,
if Andy Warhol can make a Camp-
bell's Soup Box and call it art, then
what's to stop my 15-track playlist
from making me feel like a badass?
Bayer wants to know what
you would put on a love mix for
him. E-mail him your selections
at jrbayer@umich.edu

"Whatever you do, don't pee in the suit."

Attack of the clones

Amy Adams stars in a -
disappointing doppelganger
of 'Little Miss Sunshine'
By ANNIE LEVENE
Daily Arts Writer
"Sunshine Cleaning" is the kind of movie
that screams "Sundance Film Festival." With
a hipster soundtrack, com-
plicated family relation- **
ships and offbeat plot, it's a
film begging to be deemed Sunshine
endearing, screaming "I aeaning
.couldn't find a distributor,
but love me anyway." "Sun- At the State
shine Cleaning" technically and Quality 16
has all the components that Overture
add up to sleeper success, but
only because everything in it has been done
before in a better film.
That better movie is "Little Miss Sunshine,"
2006's quirky-little-film-that-could. Similari-
ties between the "Sunshine" flicks are numer-
ous. Both contain a beat-up Volkswagen bus"
and a precocious youngster who functions as
the film's idealistic voice. But where 2006's
"Little Miss" had heart, this movie has pre-
dictability.
ARTS IN BRIEF
Film

It may be oversimplification to pick at the
subtle difference in atmosphere between the
two films or the differences between the two
casts - although Alan Arkin ("Rendition")
plays virtually the same wizened curmudgeon
grandfather in both films. But objectively, the
casting of the leads makes all the difference.
The movie loses touch with reality when
it places unrealistically beautiful women -
Emily Blunt ("Charlie Wilson's War") and
Amy Adams ("Doubt") - in such desperate
states. While it's unfair to say that beautiful
people don't have problems, the movie gives
no reasons behind these women's situations. It
simply offers the audience sad people and asks
viewers to feel bad for them.
Set in the dry and appropriately depress-
ing landscape of New Mexico - yes, just like
"Little Miss Sunshine" - "Sunshine Clean-.
ing" focuses on two sisters: Rose (Adams) is
a single mother stuck in a demeaning job and
an affair with her married high school ex-boy-
friend (Steve Zahn, "Rescue Dawn"). Younger
sister Norah (Blunt) is seemingly stuck in her-
self. Her thick make-up and dark clothing says
"I'm angry," but her dead eyes say "I'm lost."
In ' a ind' fr' fianc1ial support, and it
search of emotional worth; the sisters open
a 'cleaning service that caters specifically to
crimte scenes.
Audiences won't be able to miss the irony

of the sisters' new occupations, because the
film won't let it come gracefully. Indeed, these
women can't pick up their own messes, so they
settle for the satisfaction of cleaning the mess-
es of others.
Despite the lack of character development
- like the missing background explanation for
Rose's son - Adams and Blunt do an admira-
ble job with their characters. They make con-
vincing sisters, and they are both best when
playing off each other.
Alone, however, each struggles to make
her character relatable. It's more a problem
of writing than performance, but it's a weak
link nonetheless. Arkin, of course, is lovely as
always as the rough-edged-but-softhearted
support system. His scenes with Jason Spe-
vack ("Hollywoodland"), who plays Rose's son
Oscar, exemplify the honest love of a patriarch
who wants to give his family everything it
needs but can't.
The greatest disappointment of "Sunshine
Cleaning" is the ending. Some characters are
given uncertain futures and others find their
new life handed to them wrapped in a shiny
bow. It's this uncertainty that makes the film
seem prepackaged for indie street cred. When
it's all said and done, "Sunshine" is not the uni-
versally loved hidden gem ofa film it wants to be,
but a glossed-over and' scrubbed-clean version
of what it potentially could have been.

Nicholas Cage continues to make bad
career decisions with 'Knowing,'
another generic apocalypse movie
"Knowing"
Summit
At the Quality 16 and Showcase
Nicolas Cage's ticking time bomb of a career inches closer to total
irrelevancy with "Knowing," what seems to be his 4,000th schlocky
action/suspense hybrid in a row. It's hard to believe that the serious
actor who once wowed his audience with raw talent in "Leaving Las
Vegas" has subjected today's theaters to a line of dreck that includes
"The Wicker Man," "Bangkok Dangerous," "Next" and now "Know-
ing.".Surely this guy knows - pardon the pun - by now that he's
better than this.
This predicting-the-Apocalypse tale is so generic there's a sense
of futility surrounding it. Cage plays a learned astronomer at M.I.T.
(Walt Whitman would be proud) who becomes obsessed with a
series of numbers on a paper found inside a time capsule at his son's
elementary school. The numbers seem to predict the exact date and
location of every disaster in the world, and Cage races to stop the
ones that haven't happened yet.
Explosions, mysterious hooded figures and creepy "The Shining"
kids abound, and by the end director Alex Proyas ("I, Robot") ditch-
es the numbers game in favor of a bunch of extraterrestrial hoo-
hah. The mass carnage scenes'are fun in a sadistic way, although the
PG-13 restrictions are laughable when a rail-jumping subway train
mows over dozens of people without spilling any blood.
Here's a fun game to play while watching "Knowing": Write
down all the coded numbers that appear on screen. They will reveal
the exact date and time when Cage stopped caring.
ANDREW LAPIN


THE COOLEST PIRATES
WRITE FOR FINE
ARRR R RR RRR RR RR R RTS.
Work for our Fine Arts section.
For an application, e-mail battlebots@umich.edu.

Fot More Information cl 11(734) 615-6449.


6- Tuesday, March 31, 2009

)SIF

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily
t


*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts will buy you FREE
LUNCH ! First 10 new visitors daily,
weekdays 12-3pm. THIS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished Iwo bedroom.
Close so U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directs with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
.!IEFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATES$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included!
Hurry ....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primeshcom
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT on remain-
ing spaces at 4 Eleven Lofts -
734.998.4400 4elevenlofts.com
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! This special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're
gone! universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Fall '09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Offstreet prkg, Indry, water
incl. 734.223.7777.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.

I

FREE PIZZAOR BUBBLE ISLAND
COUPON WITH EVERY NEW
TOUR UNTIL THEY'RE GONE
*REDUCED RATES ON 2 BEDROOMS*
We offer many amenities such as,
FREE Wireless Internet, FREE
Food Every week, Workout room,
Outdoor Pool, Study Lounge,
TV Lounge, Laundry room,
24 attended Lobby, Great
Maintenance, Free Rentals,
Free Heat and Water included
with every apartment.
STOP BY TODAY AND FIND
OUT MORE DETAILS ABOUT
OUR LATEST SPECIALS
YOU'LL SEE WHY WERE
STILL #1
University Towers Apartments
536 South Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitvtowers-mi.com
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.utn-housing.com
*2 BEDROOMS - Great campus lo-
cations* 1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917
Packard, 848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Wal-
nut. All furnished and include heat, wa-
ter, and parking, some with free wire-
less! www.varsitymanagetnent.com
(734) 668-1100
1 & 2 Bdrm. farn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qut&Secur H3ighse-One bloxc ;ripus
CA! Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530
*3 BEDROOM APTS*
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100
*6-BEDROOM HOUSE*
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 - 8 people. Kerry-
town! Close to Downtown,
Zingerman's & summer farrm market!
www.varsitymanageinent.com
(734)668-1100
*B SCHOOL STUDENTS!*
917 Packard: Huge 2 bedrooms, great
balconies or patios, heat, water, furnish-
ings, and parking included, quiet study
environment, ALL FOR A GREAT
PRICE! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
*MAY- MAY 2 bedroom*
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.ptnsiproperties.com

100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
snroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can ofset ret/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin !dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wshrdryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water mcl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HtUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsotwhietnanagement.com
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@)1aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
5 BDRM., 1111 Prospect, 2 blocks
from UM Business School. $2,000/mo.,
Sept-.Apr. or Sept.-Sept. Large bed-
rooms, off street parking, free
washer/dryer. Call 614-395-8104.
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.-
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Maagement 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagment.co-2
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoMaagemet.com
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only 1 mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of widows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May '09to August '09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsowhitemanagement.com
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allsmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
the
PROPRs MANOiMiNT
! ned a400
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms

Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

- - - - - --- - -- ,_
1 I
WilsonWhite
h4MA NA GFE M EN 't I
I 159 .M .t
RENT SALE!;
ALL INVENTORY MUST 0.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
will waive the application fee and reduce
security deposit to one month's rent
I 616 Church Street
134-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemaagement.com,
Ros, sudis, an=d I-t1-drn
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathontravis@sbeglobal.net
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1. bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. SEPT. '09, $4,300, large 6.
bedroom, 3 bath. house very close to
Diag. Central air, laundry, 4 nearby
parking spots, hdwd. floors, large bed-
rooms. michaelbielby@comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $14,820
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
= $16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytwers-mi.com
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates'-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new .
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only I
m. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plusitil. 734-996-1991.
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-

washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
-FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more. details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www nnnrh.rn ..tmn, net

GRADUATE STUDENT? 418 E.
Washington studios and one bedrooms
available. Close to Main St. and central
campus, modern, quiet, many updated
kitchens. Visit
www.varsitymanagemen.com
(734) 668-11F00.
HOUSE OR ROOMS for rent. 2 bath,
furnished, side drive parking, excellent
location, 248-709-9981.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!

PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm ats. with balconies or
patios.-Walk-in closets. Free
storaae. On-site laundry.

Post Realty
propeties
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apIs., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
inf@postrealtyproperties.com
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. duplex. 1114
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C.
Free dry. $2650+ uiltavail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
3 BDRM, 1 bath, updated, ,1 car
garage, walk to campus, 734-649-7571.
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus.
070
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
GREAT SUMMER SUBLET; 710
Catherine St. $350/mo. 269-569-2707.
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
servie Y I C.

0
0

3261
90
102
72:
4
*F
Ho

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, March 31,2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Israelites' 39 Small pointto 52 Grabssome
1 .erouser departure pith sutueye
4 FormerAnaheim 4Sitting Bull's 40 Complimentary 51405-90s
Stadium NFLer language 41 Skid row regular quarterback
9 Lawn game using 5 Son of Valiant 42 Boston transit Bemie
lobbed missiles 6 Portuguese royal inits. 57 "TheGrapesof
14 Fenwayteam, 7 Each one in a 45 Eve's first home Wrath" figure
familiarly square is 90 46 Cleansed 58 Web cross-
15Gladiator's degrees 48 "1Iwishitcouldbe" reference
battlefield 8 Composer Gustav 49 Hair stiffener 60 NFLscores
16 "_ Gold": Peter 9 Trial twelvesome 50 Zany 61 "Say what"
Fonda film 10 "Put -on it" 51 Melodious 62 East Lansing sch.
17 Rock music's 5_ 11 McCarthy era passage 63 Musket suffix
Fighters paranola ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE-
18 '80s TV series 12 Golfer's aid -V
with a talking car 13 Ukr.,before1991 A R O M A M O D E L S I P
named KITT 19 Shopper'sbag S I T U P U S E R IS U R L
20 Increase 21 Big hngr P O R R I C H A RID N R A
22 London producer PO R ICH D N A
insurance giant 24 S&L guarantor S T E M O H A R A A D E N
23 1943 Triple 25 Poor,as excuses U A W I N A R A G E
Crown winner go F A I R H A i R E D B O Y
26 Chicago hrs. 27 Pampering L P N I N C H C A B A L
29 Taqueriaoffering resorts O A T H S K O R T R E N O
30 Moldintoa 28Gymnast'sgoal p R E O P D E E M S K 'I
differentaform 31 FICA funds it G
33 Little devit 32 Actor Holbrook 0 0 0 A M A R I T A N
35 It's a wrap 34 Poker kitty B A R K E E P B E N
36 England's 36 Small chess T W A S R E L L A S U I T
Charles, since piece E A T G R E A T G A TSB Y
1958 37Sodain afloat A R E N I C K Y B E N I N
42 New Zealand 38 Tax collection M D S U S H E R S P A D E
native agcy. xwordeditor@aol.com 03/31/09
4 Basicballroo ' 2 3 4 a u u7 s 1 11 12 13
dance
47 Riddles 0 I
53 Tiny army 1
member
54 "Nothing can 20 21 22
stop" him, in a
1962 doo-wop 23 24 25 20 27 3a
classic
56 Ravelwork 22 0o 31 32
immortalized in a 36
59 Nostalgic song s 37 as s 4 a4
60 "Louie Louie"
singers, andthis
puzzle'stheme
64 Miler Sebastian 32 41 47 32 49 s s1 52
65 Expted to land s . 32
66 Artist's sand
07 Venomous reptile s5 s e su
68Filmdomogre
69 Muffin Man's lane 2s 61 12 2
70 +;on abat.
DOWN
1 To be thetruth
2 Kind of doll used By Steve Dobis
in magical rites (c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 03/31/09

Efficiencies:
344 S. Division !!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
1 Bedrooms: tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
520 Packard training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
515 E. Lawrence
E. Madison-Reduced Rates ANN ARBOR BASED company,
511 E. Hoover Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
1320 S. University individuals for our Manager Develop-
2 Bedrooms: ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
:9 Church-Reduced Rates hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
21 Vaughn-Reduced Rates in the state. We will be holding inter-
1 S. Forest-Reduced Rates views weekly; please submit resumes
1320 S. University to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
I11 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown BORDERLINE PERSONALITY
DISORDER Healthy, right-handed
ully Furnished apartment women with a diagnosis of Borderline
*Parking Included Personality Disorder needed for a study
*Free Ethernet of stress and emotions, Study partici-
* Free heat and water pants will have I fMRI and 2 PET
(* At most locations) scans along with psychological evalua-
tions. C4mpensation up to $650.00
OLD TWN RALTY Call 734-763-3580
OLD TO N REALTY IRBMED #2003-0663'
www4 d6wnreatynet EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
w t lneeded ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
fuses Available fer Fall 2009 being a mystery shopper. No experi-
All Prices Reduced!! n ece required.tCall 1-800-722-4791.
8 Bedroom House FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
428 Hamilton Pt. $4,400 +/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students,'apply @
7 Bedroom Houses telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
406 E. Jefferson $3,850 GET PAID CASH far taking online
1220 Prospect $3,850sGesPAwDcashfopakng om
334 Catherine $3,850 surveys. www.cashtopsendeow
6 Bedroom House GRILL SERVERS WANTED. Stone-
952 Greenwood $3,600 bridge Golf Club, A2. Apr. through
952 GrenwlldL$3,6e) Oct. Call 734-429-8383.
(May er Fall Lease)
SEASONAL GROUNDS CREW
4 Bedroom Houses workers needed for Stonebridge Golf
1116 Packard $2,300 Club, Ann Arbor. April-Sept. Call 734-
942 Woodlawn $2,060 323-8790.
624 Church $2,995
THE POLO FIELDS Country Club is
store now hiring for concession stand, bever-
rg a $500.00 gift card 100 ase age carts, certified lifeguards, exp. wait-
Schoice with every signed lease staff, dishwashers, golf course laborers,
if these available heusen!! golf shop and outside golf services.
Please apply in person at 5200 Polo
BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo- Fields Dr., Ann Arbor, MI. Directions
1 a quaint residential neighbor- available on our website


Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rintes: $3.75 perlinefr thefirsti ssueandS 175perlnetor eachadditiona,
consecutiveissue.
" Frequency and Bulkcontracts areavailable- contact ourstaff fordetails
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessads only)
" All adsmust be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call oneof our Account Executives


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 31, 2009 - 7

Shaman owner: Internet boom
hurting small, big stores alike

From Page 1
and, ideally, prevent the stock from
being delisted from the New York
Stock Exchange.
The NYSE has already extended
its deadline to June 30 for meet-
ing its stock listing requirements,
since the economic crisis has put
many companies in danger of being
delisted.
Local independent book stores
are experiencing the same decline
as chain retailers like Borders.
Karl Pohrt owns Shaman Drum
Bookshop on State Street in Ann
DRINKING
From Page 1
that the alcohol-related treatment is
linked to aviolent crime.
"There's a common mispercep-
tion among students that we call
DPS and that students will get
MIPs if they come to the hospi-
tal," Desmond told the Daily. "Our
interest is in making sure that
they're getting the help they need.
COMET
From Page 1
the coffee from the grounds.
"Supposedly there are things
you can read in the cone; the big
lumps, that's bad," he said. "And
if the coffee isn't spread evenly
on the side, that's bad as well. We
are just trying to get a really even
extraction."
Theresult ofthismeticulous pro-
cess is a coffee with the palatable
flavors of the roast - ranging from
apple to lemon zest to caramel.
Saborio uses specialty coffee

Arbor. Along with the state of the
economy and the shrinking place
for print media in the attention
span of today's consumers, Pohrt
said big booksellers suffer from
the same "shift to Internet sales"
that has recently hurt independent
bookstores like Shaman Drum.
"It's my contention that the
book business, as a business model,
doesn't work very well for any-
body," he said. "That's independent
bookshops as well as large chain
bookstores."
Pohrt said he is sympathetic for
Borders, whose flagship store is
We don't want to discourage some-
one from coming here."
Despite the hospital's policy, Psi
Upsilon Fraternity President Luke
Donahue said he has seen cases
in which people have not brought
friends to the hospital for medi-
cal attention for fear of getting an
MIP. He said he believed that cur-
rent laws have served as a deter-
rent for some students on campus.
"I do think that there are times
that people don't go to the hospi-
retailer 49th Parallel Coffee Roast-
ers based out of British Colombia
to get his premium roasts. He likes
the company because of its deliv-
ery speed.
Often delivered in less than four
days, Saborio said the company
guarantees the freshness of the
beans.
The menu at the cafe will rotate
throughout the week depending on
the freshness and availability of the
coffeeintheinventory,hesaid. Comet
Coffee also features a traditional
espresso menu and pastries from the
Pastry Peddler, a pastry shop located
onPackard Streetbetween HillStreet

around the corner from his own
shop.
Amazon.com, the online retailer
widely believed to be Borders's big-
gest foe, has had enormous success
despite the economic downturn.
On the day after Christmas, an
Amazon.com press release hailed
this holiday sales season as its "best
ever." Fourth quarter profits were
up 8.7 percent from last year for
the company - considerably higher
than analysts had predicted.
Today's report will include data
for the 13-week fiscal quarter that
ended on Jan.31, 2009.
tal for fear of legal repercussions,"
Donahue said. "I feel that lifting
the fear of those repercussions
would encourage people to go to
the hospital if they need help."
Current Michigan law classifies
an MIP as a misdemeanor charge
that carries a $400 fine. Minors
charged with the offense are also
required to appear in court. First-
time offenders may be subject to
probation and repeat offenders
could face jail time.
and South State Street.
Currently, the shop does not
have tables because of zoning
issues, but Saborio said he is sure
he will have seating within the
next couple of weeks.
While openinga business in the
current economy may be a bold
move, Saborio said Comet Coffee
has been off to a good start.
"Apparently there were a lot
of repressed coffee freaks in this
town," he said. "We have just had
such a positive response to the cof-
fee here, it's justbeen great. I had no
idea there were so many people in
Ann Arbor interested in coffee."

STEVE YEATER/AP
In this file photo from February, Mitt Romney speaks during the California Republican Spring Convention in Sacramento, Calif.
Romney's latest work puts
hi-m in spotligfht for 2012

Former candidate
signals another
presidential run in
subtle and overt ways
BOSTON (AP) - Mitt Romney
doesn't have a job for the first time
in his adult life. That hardly means
he's not working.
In ways both subtle and overt;
the 2008 Republican presiden-
tial contender, former Massachu-
setts governor, one-time Olympics
chief and high-flying businessman
is building toward a 2012 White
House campaign by judiciously
engaging and disengaging with the
national debate.
On Tuesday, he's in Chicago to
speak at a fundraiser for a prospec-
tive state treasurer candidate. On
Wednesday, he's in Washington to
headline a fundraiser for the Nation-
SUBPRIME
From Page 1
Soft information is derived from
questions the banks pose to poten-
tial loan recipientsrelatingto things
like job security and the potential

al RepublicanSenatorial Committee.
On Thursday, he's again the keynote
speaker at a fundraising dinner for
Republicans in New York City.
Afterthat, he's headingbackto his
oceanfront home in La Jolla, Calif.,
to continue writing newspaper col-
umns and a political book. Based on
the '60s tome "The American Chal-
lenge" by Frenchman Jean-Jacques
Servan-Schreiber, it will be aimed
at shaking American economic and
political complacency, he said.
Romney's also supervising the
sale of houses he owns in Mas-
sachusetts and Utah, the type of
excess real estate that brought
ridicule to John McCain last fall.
And his political action commit-
tee is seeding money to candidates
across the country.
"This is a quiet time," Romney
insisted Friday during a telephone
interview with The Associated
Press from Park City, Utah. He had
just completed loading a U-Haul
of major upcoming expenses.
Rajan, along with two col-
leagues, examined data on securi-
tized subprime loans issued from-
1997 to 2006 to determine the
reason why many models failed to
predict failure.
Securitization is the process by


DEAN
From Page 1
of consulting firm Greenwood/
Asher and Associates. In February,
three finalists for the position vis-
ited campus to participate in public
forums.
Linda Green, a spokeswomani for
the Division of StudentAffairs said
the search committee was better
prepared in its efforts the second
time around.
"The advisory board had more
experience in terms of what they
were looking for," Green said.
"They worked with a search firm
that really brought in some excel-
lent candidates, and so we had a
good pool to choose from."
Following the forums in February,
attendeessubmittedcommentsabout

the candidates to the committee.
Former Michigan Student
Assembly President Sabrina Shin-
gwani was one of three student
representatives on the search com-
mittee. She estimated that around
25 students attended each of the
forums, many of whom were from
student organizations.
Shingwani said in speak-
ing with students following the
forums, they "overwhelmingly"
supported Blake Jones as she was
able to speak from expdrience on
the issues students raised.
"She clearly had a strong under-
standing of what diversity meant
to the U of M," Shingwani said. "Of
the three candidates, she clearly
had the most hands-on experience
with students and student con-
cerns, and student issues."
Blake Jones has a bachelor's

degree from Miami University of
Ohio and a master's degree in Stu-
dent Personnel Services in Higher
Education from the University of
Vermont. She earned her Ph.D. in
Educational Leadership from the
University of Oregon.
Blake Jones has worked in stu-
dent affairs at each of her alma
maters as well as for the University
of California at Berkeley and the
University of California at Davis.
The dean of students oversees
student development units like
University Health Service, Spec-
trum Center, Multi-Ethnic Stu-
dent Affairs and Trotter House,
and Awareness Center and Servic-
es for Students with Disabilities.
Since former Dean of Students
Sue Eckland retired last year,
Harper has primarily served as
interim dean of students.

Take Back the Night Rally and March
U of M Diag Thursday, April 2nd 7pm
Take a Stand Against Sexual Violence
www.tbtnannarbor.org
Survivor Speak Out today, March 31st 7pm
Michigan Union-Parker Room
Share your story in a safe and supportive
space


the michigan daily
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The "
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail- For W
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 -6304. ARIES
www.theislandhouse.com ( c
2009 SUMMER/FALL INTERNSHIP Avoid
Beer Distributor located in Ypsilanti, bers tod
covering territories in Washtenaw, Liv- (like yo
ingston, Western Wayne and Monroe Don't ge
Counties. Looking for a hard working TAUR
Business Student, must be 21 and have (April
a car. Flexible hours, evenings and Be ex
weekends especially during Football - down w
Hockey Season. Fun, hands-on experi- tionally
ence in Sales, Special Events and Mar- about s
keting. Apply in person at O&W, Inc. intense!
3003 William St. Ypsilanti. 734-480- GEMI
4012. (May:
You m
C d Care somethir
ilarly ob
that relat
breath ar
CANC
(June
Power
PART-TIME ITALIAN speaking arise ean
babysiner needed for 7 year old child. the other
email: mamarc@comcast.net ti ay
this to yc
each oth
WANTED: CHILD CARE for infant LEO
and 2 yr old. Part/full time. Exp. req. (July2
Education in related prog pref. Will per- Somet
form background check. 248-231-9264. today. Y
body els
t iCkesIa trveling your
ate tensi
VIRG(
(Aug.,
100 2 Diffic,
possible
their wa
could be
L1BRP
11A VEL (Sept..
Power
Book your flight to Europe and VI
for the summer during they're a
March, and get your 1st away!)
hostel night free!
STA Travel, Inc.
530 South State St
Ann Arbor MI 48109
T(734)769.2555
UMl@statravel.com

trailer with personal effects from
the ski home he's selling and was
about to set out - alone - for the
11/-hour drive back to California.
"At this stage, running again
is way beyond the horizon," said
Romney, 62. "This year is working
on a book. The next year will be
helping in Republican campaigns.
And I don't know what the year
after that will bring."
Republican strategist Mary
Matalin says she can easily see a
second campaign - and a more
successful one, at that.
"There'snothinglikegoingaround
the track once to broaden the field,"
Matalin said. "He has an intellectual
base. He has a politics-faith base.
He certainly has an economic base.
If there's anything illogical about
it, it's that he - and not some of the
other people who may appeal more
strongly to one of those elements -
has the greatest potential to pull all
those factions together."
which banks package various assets
- like risky loans, for example -
into securities, which they then sell
to investors.
The researchers found that as
the rate of securitization increased,
so did the reliance on hard infor-
mation about loan applicants. This
was because, Rajan said, the hard
information is easier to convey to
potential investors as the assets
were packaged and sold, repack-
aged and resold, and so forth.
Without securitization, the
lender is directly hurt if the bor-
rower defaults. However, after
the package is sold as a security
to an investor, the bank or lender
no longer bears the full risk of the
applicant potentially defaulting
on the loan. The responsibility
then falls, at least in part, on the
investor.
According to Rajan, lenders
were more aptto collect soft infor-
mation from borrowers before the
unprecedented growth in securi-
tization after the year 2000.
"A lender has an incentive to
verify undocumented informa-
tion, or soft information, about
the borrower," Rajan reported,
"but the incentive to acquire soft
information about borrowers is
lost under securitization, since
only hard data can be transmitted
credibly to the investor."
Thiscreatedasituationinwhich
high-risk applicants whose hard
information may have seemed
credible were able to obtain loans,
even though their soft informa-
tion showed they weren't likely to
pay the money back.
When investors purchased
securities containing these high-
risk loans, they were presumably
unknowingly putting themselves
at a great deal of risk, leading to
what has now become the sub-
prime mortgage crisis.
But the crisis is not entirely the
fault of statistical models' failures,
Rajan said. Rather, it was the veil-
ing effect that such models had on
greater economic problems that
truly got the economy in the mess
it is today.
"Statistical models that relied
on hard information did not
directly cause bad loans to be
made," Rajan said. "However, a
reliance on such models likely
prevented investors from learning
about the extent of the problem."
Rajan said he hopes the study
will have far-reaching implica-
tions for the financial sector as
a whole. He said it will help to

develop "more effective regula-
tion of the financial markets and
financial institutions" to prevent
similar scenarios from playing out
in the future.
Rajan has earned numerous
rewards for his work in the finan-
cial sector including the GSAM
award for best paper in the Review
of Finance and the NYSE award
for best paper on equity trading at
the WFA meetings, according to
his University biography.

ednesday, April 1, 2009
h 21 to April 19)
arguments with family mem-
ay, especially female relatives
ur mother). Keep your cool.
t your belly ina rash.
US
20 to May 20)
tra patient with others. Slow
hen driving. It's easy to get emo-
overwrought or too excited
omething today. People are
NIN
21 to June 20)
right be obsessed about buying
ng today. Or perhaps you're sim-
sessed about something at work
tes to your earnings. Take a deep
nd mellow out.
ER
21 to July 22)
struggles with partners can
ily today. Don't try to improve
r person, and don't let anyone do
ru. Be tolerant and accepting of
ier.
23 to Aug. 22)
hing secretive is taking place
ou might be dealing with some-
e's secrets, or you might be hid-
own. Either way likely will cre-
ion.
iO
23 to Sept. 22)
Ulties with a female friend are
today. People insist on getting
ay. Elements of jealousy also
a problem here. Take it easy.
A
23 to Oct. 22)
struggles with bosses, parents
s can arise very easily today.
are quick to take affront, and
lso very pushy. (Run away! Run

SCORPIO
(Oct. 22 to Nov. 2t)
This is a very pour day to engage in
debates and arguments about religion,
racial issues or politics. People are com-
ing from a purely emotional and very
personal point of view. Logic has gone
out the window.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Money squabbles or difficulties about
shared property could arise today.
Postpone these discussions for another
day. (You'll be glad you did.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Difficulties with partners and close
friends are likely today, perhaps due to
feelings of jealousy or competitiveness.
Try not to give in to these emotions.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
People at work might be demanding
today. You might be huffy in your
response. You can see how quickly the
situation might deteriorate. Easy does it.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Quarrels about children or romantic
differences are just some examples of
what could make this day difficult for
you. Don't take the bait. Remain calm
and mellow. If nothing else, do it for
your own peace of mind.
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
are enormously self-disciplined. (You
are the warrior.) You have enormous
drive and energy. You do not shirk your
responsibilities; you meet life head on
You take your work seriously, and you
want to succeed. Friends know they can
rely on you. Your year ahead is exciting
because it is filled with new paths. Open
any door?
Birthdate of: Maathai Wangari, Nobel
laureate; Anne McCaffrey, author; All
MacGraw, actress.

1

n2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


8 - Tuesday, March 31, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, March 31, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Chatting with AAFF's founder

Perpetual party

0

By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
Friday afternoon. The Campus
Inn. It's a cool, gray day and George
Manupelli, the founder of the Ann
Arbor Film Festival, is taking a brief
moment to rest his eyes and catch
his breath during the 47th AAFF.
There's a lot to do in town, and
Manupelli is back on the scene. He's
kind of tired and uncertain about
what he's going to screen next, but
it doesn't matter; Manupelli is just
glad to be checking out movies again
in Ann Arbor.
In a recent interview, Manupelli
talked about everything including
the Festival, his time at the Univer-
sity and his ongoing work over the
years. But before all that, Manupelli
opened up and talked about his roots
and interest in film and art.
"I had a classmate. He was 17, and
he went to the movies and recorded
them - you know, religiously; every
aspect of the film. And this is 1948,"
Manupelli said.
He continued, "He's telling me
that film is light, sound and motion,
you know. And I said 'Oh, gee, what
a concept.' How advanced. I didn't
realize it was advanced, but it was
abstract. And not in a way anyone
thought at the time."
Manupelli was what the mod-
ern Festival would like to label as
an "experimental" filmmaker. He
found his calling behind the lens,

tryinga
filmma
"I b
just sta
pelli ex
Forh
ing N
quality
just du
film cla
- from
ment at
Froe
all sor;
ated th
Th
pas
whichm
preside
Festiva
was a p
sity of N
& Desi
neededi
through
"I ca
lum th
design
"I tried
design.'
cian to

anything and everything as a teach film for nine years, and (I
ker. worked) withoutpay; I took the deal
ought a Bolex canera, then because I wanted to get at the stu-
irted taking images," Manu- dents."
plained. Despite having no resources or
him, it wasn't about emulat- financial support to teach film class-
ational Geographic image es at the time, Manupelli still cre-
or Dickensian intricacy. He ated the AAFF. Students, politics,
g making movies. "I took one experimentation and a sense of fun
ss - it was completely hokey guided him along the way. The Fes-
the communications depart- tival became a bastion of diversified
Columbia." topics. There were documentaries
n there, Manupelli took on covering subjects including mili-
ts of cinema work. He cre- tary coups in Chili and boxer Rubin
e "Dr. Chicago" trilogy, all of "Hurricane" Carter. Today, the films
in the Festival are screened accord-
ing to themes including geographi-
cal location, gender identification
e present and and animation.e
st of a prolific So, after such a prolific career in
art, what is Manupelli doing these
filmmaker. days?
* "I make little things, I like to do
the simplest kinds of things. Just glue
this and stick it down. Then write a
were filmed in Ann Arbor. He scenario for it." Manupelli said. "It's
d over the Ann Arbor Film like the 'Chicago' films. I get loca-
I for 20 years. And Manupelli tion, props, actors, costumes. I call
rofessor here at the Univer- them three-dimensional cartoons."
Michigan in the School of Art Manupelli has always been a man
gn, a place where he felt he - of many ventures. After teaching
to share new insight into art at art schools, making movies and
h sight and sound. deciding to just quit painting after
me here in '62. The curricu- doing it for 20 years, there's no say-
en was drawing, painting, ing what he'll pick up next. Honored
- period," Manupelli said. Thursday night at the Festival as
to get them to do sound as a distinguished guest, Manupelli
You don't need to be a musi- can be certain his legacy has been
make music. I didn't get to cemented into place.

'Junior' is a striking
smorgasbord of
happy dance cuts
By RHIANNON HALLER
DailyArts Writer
You know that feeling you get
at a party when
the music dies
and the crowd *
disperses, but
you still want Ryksopp
to dance? Rilyk- Junior
sopp's new A
album Junior Asta'wes
has you covered.
The album vacillates between
emulating post-party woes with
exceptional precision and deliver-
ing a smorgasbord of happy dance
tracks that will keep your feet
moving while the celebration is in
full swing.
Junior is a near-perfect revi-
sion of Riyksopp's resume, com-
bining the upbeat ambience of
Rfyksopp's first album Melody
A.M. with the more down-tem-
po tracks of the band's second
release The Understanding. The
group has even thrown in a
few female Scandinavian sing-
ers into the mix'to complement
band members Svein Berge and
Torbjern Brundtland's own airy

vocals. Changing up vocalists
gives each song its own unique
flavor, and Royksopp manages
to maintain cohesiveness on the
record by tinging each track
with its own distinct brand of
ambient-yet-danceable instru-
mentation.
The deft variation gives the
album much of its strength, but
there's another factor that pushes
Junior from lightweight up-and-
comer to heavyweight champion:
"Royksopp Forever."
The track showcases every
chunk of awesomeness the group
has to offer; its steady, enduring
drum beat lets the blissful syn-
thesizers shine through as they
switch between rapid, electronic
scales and imitations of stringed
instruments releasing uplifting
symphonies. The song's soar-
ing instrumentation is so epic it
sounds prepared to serve as score
to a monumental battle scene.
"Royksopp Forever" isn't fast-
paced enough to keep anybody
moving at a raging party, but it's
a bad-ass accompaniment to any
hazy walk home.
Elsewhere, Junior makes its
money by giving people songs
to dance to long into the night.
"Happy Up Here," the first track,
is a bubbly, booty-shaking num-
ber withbouncy synths and funky
guitars. "The Girl and the Robot"

is also well-suited for the dance
floor, but it diverges from the pre-
vious track's perkiness with its
ominous drum-machine, rolling
synthesizers and ethereal syllabic
chanting in the background that
lends ita creepy undertone.
Unfortunately, all prodigious
celebrations must end, and like-
wise, so does Junior. Rfyksopp
fully understands the melancholy
that accompanies the death of a
party, providing listeners with a
track that embodies the feeling
with impeccable accuracy. "You
Don't Have A Clue," with the lines
"It's late in the night / dancing is
done / The music has died /You're
ready to run / But you don't have
a clue / This party hasn't ended
yet," is the ideal companion for
post-party depression.
"You Don't Have A Clue" is
also a good friend for when you're
hit by that same depression after
you realize Junior is over. The
album skillfully balances its high
energy with its soothing atmo-
spheric quality, creating an aural
bliss that is bound to leave listen-
ers a bit upset when it's all said
and done. But Junior's inevitable
end is the only disappointment
to be found among its 11 tracks, a
grievance that is quickly forgot-
ten when you realize that there's
nothing stopping you from play-
ing it again and again.

0

r .
r
S
:,
y' 3
3 :

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 31, 2009 - 9

The spring game needs to become a tradition

n the spring of 2007, so
many red-and-white-clad
fans packed into Alabama's
Bryant-Denny Stadium that some
attendees had to sit on the steps
or stand on tip-
toes in section
entrances to
get a glimpse at
the field.
It was Nick
Saban's first
spring game
in Tusca-
loosa, and fans ANDY
overflowed REID
the stadium's
92,138-person
capacity to see it.
Selling out a spring game is a
completely foreign idea at Michi-
gan Stadium.
When I was a kid, my parents
and I would wake up super early
one Saturday each spring to make
the three-hour drive to Ann Arbor
for the spring game. It was one of
my favorite weekends of the year
- I remember snagging Anthony
Thomas's autograph and almost
catching Sam Sword's glove when
he tossed it to a group of awe-
struck l0-year-olds.
I remember rooting for the
blue team to beat the white
team. Whichever squad won was
rewarded with a steak dinner

while the losers ate soggy hot
dogs.
The Big House crowds weren't
exactly large, but that's what I
expected from spring games -
maybe 15,000 fans crowding the
lowest bleachers of the stadium.
But as I got older and passed
the age where autograph hoard-
ing was fun, I had much less of a
desire to go. Watching the team go
through a half hour of stretching
followed by nothing more intense
than pregame warmups didn't
really appeal to me.
Let's face it. Michigan's actual
spring "game" - which is basi-
cally a stylized walk-through 'is
pretty boring. That's why the
stands aren't filled here. But they
are in other places.
Just look at some of these
spring-game attendance numbers
from last year:
Nebraska: 80,149.
Ohio State: 76,346.
Penn State: 73,000.
Florida: 61,000.
Hell, even Michigan State
attracted 27,000 fans last season.
Of all the spring games I've been
to at Michigan, 27,000 would
easily rank at the top of the
attendance list. Other teams give
their fans something to see - live
action, real tackles. You know,
football.

Rich Rodriguez is doing all he
can to raise excitement around
the game, adding an alumni flag
football game, a locker room tour
and other gimmicks to the fes-
tivities. He wants to see at least
40,000 fans show up. His even-
tual goal is to break Alabama's
attendance record, and if Rodri-
guez wants that, the on-the-field
product in the spring must be
enticing enough to keep fans com-
ing every year.
And if the Athletic Department
could convince 100,000 people to
show up to the spring game every
season, it could do a whole lot of
good for the program. A packed
house could impress recruits,
convince boosters to donate more
money and make fans feel more
connected with the steep Michi-
gan tradition. It's a win-win sce-
nario no matter how you look at it.
The hardest part will be getting
fans to Michigan Stadium in the
first place.
Lloyd Carr's super-conserva-
tive approach to the spring game
(the last one I went to was basi-
cally just a practice - they didn't
even keep score) gave Michigan
fans a bad perception of the annu-
al event, set for April 11 at noon
this season.
And last season's closed-to-
the-public edition in Rodriguez's

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez has worked with the Athletic Department to make the spring game more "fan-friendly" this year.
first year turned off many of the tradition, the spring game needs fans. Why should the Wolverines
remaining pro-spring game strag- to be something fans get excited be any different?
glers. about. All the elite programs
Although there's always a huge around the country are consis- - Reid can be reached at
revolt against change in Michigan tently pulling in at least 50,000 andyreid@umich.edu.

Short-Term & Long-Term Leases - Furnished & Unfurnished Apartments

EXPLORE VILLAGEGREEN.COM
Properties Throughout the Midwest Including
Chicago " Detroit e Minneapolis

'/


10 - Tuesday, March 31, 2009

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Small-ball necessary 5-on-3 mishap doomed 'M'
for Blue's success

4

The Michiganhbaseball
team is in flux. Its defense
has started to come
around, but its usually-dominant
starting pitching has latelybeen
inconsistent, and its offense has
scored runs in clusters.
But that offensive production
can't always bail out the Wolver-
ines. TIM
Michigan ROHAN
needs to manu- _
facture runs by On baseball
using the "small-
ball" strategy, an offensive method
that involves getting runners on
base, advancing them and sac-
rificing outs to advance or score
runners.
Small-ball combines the impor-
tance of solid pitching with an
emphasis on scoring runs through
a systematic, analytical approach.
Michigan has often relied on over-
powering teams with a hot inning.
But in what could be a tight race to
the Big Ten title, the Wolverines
should shy away from that strategy.
Michigan needs to find con-
sistent scoringto win games. Its
last two losses came against Iowa
and Eastern Michigan. The Wol-
verines' pitchers delivered on the
mound duringboth games, but
their offense sputtered - play-
ing small-ball could have helped
manufacture runs and pull out
those games.
Players with high on-base per-
centages (OBS) and those who
can steal bases are valuable when
it comes to scoring without big
extra-base hits. But this season,
the Wolverines have seen its
stolen bases decline and the OBS
remain around the same.
On Sunday, Michigan dabbled
in small-ball as fifth-year senior
left fielder Kenny Fellows stolea
career-best fourbases in Michi-
gan's 7-5 win over Iowa.
The effort led to six total stolen
bases, and the Wolverines are now
33-of-52 on stolen base attempts.
Michigan was caught stealing only
22 times last season on its way to
78 stolen bases, right around the
pace of the current team. But last
year's team had the power to go
along with its speed, and this team
probably doesn't.
Coming into the season, Michi-

gan coach Rich Maloney expected
the pitching and defense to carry
the team and the offense to strug-
gle. But the offense, while incon-
sistent, has been a surprise, and it's
the other areas that have had speed
bumps. And there will be games,
like in Michigan's last two losses,
when the offense isn't scoring to
cover other problem areas.
Small-ball's emphasis on get-
ting players on base and advancing
them any way possible is some-
thing Maloney saw as necessary
before the season began - it just
hasn't yet translated consistently.
"I think we're going to have less
power," Maloney said at the "Meet
the Wolverines" night Feb. 16. "So
we're goingto have to be more
creative in producing runs. But
you can do itboth ways."
Maloney also talked about the
importance of the speedy corner
outfielders, Fellows and redshirt
junior Nick Urban. Senior tri-
captain Kevin Cislo's game is also
perfect for the small-ball philoso-
phy. Cislo leads the team with a
.482 OBS and is tied with Fellows
for a team-high eight stolenbases.
Urban isn't far behind with a.390
OBS and five stolen bases.
The Wolverines have the pieces
to do it, but they just need to
perfect the art of manufacturing
runs effectively. The power surge
can and will run flat at times, and
small-ball is the perfect remedy
for any team.
While the Wolverines could
attempt to recreate last year's
power squad, they have been
inconsistent with the bats thus
far. But with small-ball to rely on,
Michigan would be tough to beat.
After beatingIowa on Sunday,
Maloney said baserunning gave
the Wolverines momentum, and
he saw the effort his team put into
trying to manufacture runs in its
first Big Ten series of the season.
"We have to be a scrappy team
to havea success this year," Malo-
ney said. "We lost a lot of good
players last year ... so we can never
take a day off mentally."
And only when the Wolverines
play scrappier will they see that
small-ball will help this year's
team find the same success as last
year's power squad.

1

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Air Force goalie Andrew Volkening saved all43 shots he faced in the Falcons' 2-0 win over Michigan on Friday in the first round of the NCAA Tournament.

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. - Seldom
is the momentum of a game decided
so early.
But in the Michigan hockey
team's 2-0 loss to Air Force in the
first round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment on Friday, the Falcons had the
advantage from the very beginning.
After Air Force
picked up con- NOTEBOOK
tact-to-the-head
elbowing and cross-checking calls
four minutes into the game, Michi-
gan had a two-man advantage for
one minute and 19 seconds.
The Wolverines got three Grade-
A scoring chances in the slot - a
deflection by sophomore Louie
Caporusso and two shots by senior
Brandon Naurato, one directly in
front of the crease. But Air Force
goalie Andrew Volkening was more
than up for the test on each occa-
sion.
"I think the momentum shift of
the game was when we didn't score
on the 5-on-3," sophomore for-
ward Matt Rust. "If we would have
scored there, we would have buried
them."
Michigan failed to score at all. The
Wolverines went 0-for-7 with the

man advantage against Air Force.
"When you look back at that
game, Michigan needed to score on
that 5-on-3," Air Force coach Frank
Serratore said. "How many times
have you seen in hockey (that) you
get a 5-on-3, you don't score, and
you lose? And we weathered the
storm, after that our guys were
like, 'OK, we used our mulligan,
and now we have to start playing.'
I think we responded pretty well
after that."
The failure to convert on the
two-man advantage set the tempo
for the rest of the game.
Michigan dominated the early
going with seven scoring opportu-
nities in the first eight minutes. The
Wolverines also had a near-goal
from junior Brian Lebler that was
deflected awaybythe Falcon defense
before reaching the goal line.
But after failingto convert on the
power play, Air Force had more top-
notch scoring chances and scored
the two goals that proved to be the
difference in the game.
NOT ENOUGH WORK: Sopho-
more goalie Bryan Hogan has said
many times this season that he
would rather face many shots than
just a few.
Stopping more shots gets a goalie
into a rhythm, because he's used

0

to the game speed and isn't just an
observer in the crease.
The numbers back him up.
Hogan has just a .899 save percent-
age in games where he faces fewer
than 20 shots. He's posted a .919
save percentage when facing more
than 20 shots ina game.
And while limiting Air Force to
just 13 shots on goal can be a testa-
ment to the team's defense, Beren-
son was less than happy with the
pair of goals given up.
"I don't think it's a game of blam-
ing anyone," Berenson said. "I didn't
like the first goal and I didn't like

the second goal. As a goalie, you're
the last line of resort. But as a goalie,
you've got to make those saves."
FLUKEY FOUR: From a fan's
perspective, Air Force's win over
Michigan was an upset. But the
Wolverines weren't alone in a
wacky weekend in the NCAA Tour-
nament. Three No.1 seeds - Michi-
gan, Notre Dame and Denver - all
lost to No. 4 seeds in the tourna-
ment's first round. The teams in
this year's Frozen Four are No. 4
seeds Bemidji State and Miami
(Ohio), No.1 seed Boston University
and No. 3 seed Vermont.

AL ADVANCE SCREENING I

0

0

.
,

Wondering if you're making the right career decisions? Get your questions answered
with 30-Minute Mentors, brought to you by the Alumni Association.
Meet one-on-one with a U-M alum in a casual setting and find out what his or her job
is like.
This is your chance to get your questions answered from someone who knows. It could
be the most important 30 minutes you spend on campus this spring.
- When: Friday, ApriL 3
Sessions offered from 11 a.m.-5 p.m.
Pick the time that fits your schedule.
Where: Alumni Center, 200 Fletcher St., at the corner of Fletcher and
Washington, next to the Michigan League and across from MLB.
7?Who: Alumni in a variety of career fields, including, finance, marketing,
" ' journalism, accounting and business.

*I

YKEE MUOVIE UOSTERS
Download a Screening Pass at
Wednesday, April 1 Pesenteabe
UberDuzi.Com Y'
9:00 PM
or Pick up a Screening Pass at the
UAC Office in 4002 Michigan Union
Natural Science Auditorium u.
mes UberDuzi.com -

The spots are Limited and wilL be fiLLed on a
first-come, first-served basis so sign up today!
www.umaumni.com/students

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

0I

y ;
>


