1 III4WC4 i0 an at IV

0 Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, October 30, 2009

michigandaily.com

COURSEPACK CONTROVERSY
Excel loses
lawsuit over
copyrights

Campus coursepack
shop owner sued for
* do-it-yourself
method of copying
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Students looking to save a buck
by photocopying their course read-
ings may run into some trouble,
after Excel Test Preparation suf-
fered a major defeat in its lawsuit
with five publishing companies
regarding charges of copyright
infringement.
Blackwell Publishing, Elsevier,
Oxford University Press, SAGE
Publications and John Wiley &
Sons accused Excel of copyright
infringement on 33 of their publi-
cations.
Excel, located on South Uni-
versity Avenue, is one of the many
stores in Ann Arbor that produces
coursepacks for students and fac-
ulty at the University.
Many other local copy shops
like Dollar Bill Printing on Church
Street, copy and bind the material
for coursepacks provided to them
by University faculty members. At
Excel, though, customers individu-
ally copy and bind the master copy
of the material that was provided
to the shop by the professor.
The publishing companies
allege, however, that Excel's cheap,

do-it-yourself policy regarding
coursepacks is against the law.
In June 2007, the publishers
filed a complaint in federal court
claiming that Excel had breached
federal copyright law by notpaying
the publishers for the rights to copy
the material for profit.
Boston Attorney William Strong
is representing the publishers in
the lawsuit and said in an inter-
view this week that there are many
similar intellectual property cases
around the country, but the Excel
case especially caught the publish-
ers' attentions.
"We learned about Excel's busi-
ness practice, which was not to pay
any copyright fees," Strong said.
"And we felt that we could not let
that go unchallenged."
According to court documents,
Norman Miller, the owner of Excel,
claims that the store's copying
policies are completely legal. He
contends that Excel's actions are
protected under the fair use stipu-
lation of U.S. copyright law.
"Since each student is mak-
ing just one copy for his or her
own individual use, no copyright
permissions or royalty fees are
involved," Miller said in the court
documents.
Federal District Judge Avern
Cohn issued a summary judgment
on Monday agreeing with the pub-
lishers' claim that Excel broke the
law.
"The fact that the students push
See LAWSUIT, Page 7

MAX COLINS/Daily
LSA senior Katie Niedzielski buys clothes yesterday for her Halloween costume at Star Vintage located on State Street. The store, which specializes in 1960s and '70s
vintage clothes and furniture thrives around seasonal events like Halloween - when their sales increase to around $1,000 a day.
outh U. post office spared

Loc
41(
co
Tha
gell (D
Centra
short v
The
post of

ation was one of one of 410 post office locations fac-
ing the chopping block this year,
0 locations that but it's now remaining open, much
to the relief of many Ann Arbor
uld have closed residents who live in the area.
Dingell was at the forefront of
By NICOLE ABER the effort to save the post office,
Daily StaffReporter located at 1214 S. University Ave.
The post office served as a key
nks to U.S. Rep. John Din- resource for members of the Uni-
'-Dearborn), residents near versity community, a demograph-
l Campus will still have a ic, Dingell wrote in an e-mail
'alk to the post office. interview, that he is determined to
South University Avenue serve.
'fice was initially considered "It was clear to me from the

location of this postal station that
it did not make sense to close it,"
Dingellwrote. "It's inthe middle of
the U of M campus. Having a half
dozen of U of M grads on (my) staff
helped put this in perspective. Not
only did they use this station, it
was the only one they had used in
their time at school there."
Dingell said if the South Uni-
versity location was to close, many
Ann Arbor residents would switch
to different mail carriers, some-
thing he wanted to prevent.
"I also looked at the profile

of the permanent residents who
live close to the station," Dingell
wrote. "If it closed, many people
in the neighborhood would prob-
ably have opted to switch carriers
rather than drive to another post
office. I didn't want that."
Though Dingell said it would
remain open, the South Univer-
sity post office is technically still
on the U.S. Postal Regulatory
Commission's list of locations
being discussed for consolidation,
according to Ed Moore, manager
See POST OFFICE, Page 7


SIDEWALK SOUNDS
IlE 1/ -AXfI

RE-WRITING HEALTH CARE'S RULES
Leaving a mark on the
nation's health debate

ARIELBOND/Daily
The digital music ensemble class took its work outdoors, mounting an infrared sensor on a sidewalk that dictated - based on how
many people walked by - the pace of music being created by a computer program. The class also wrapped plastic sheets around
trees to represent "the labyrinth that is your life," according to Owen Campbell, a senior in the School of Music, Theatre & Dance.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA IN MICHIGANs
Mich. offic1is discuss new pot rules

'U' researchers
introduced Value-
Based Insurance
Design to Congress
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily Staff Reporter
The much-debated health care
reform legislation winding its way
through U.S. Congress carries a
distinct University of Michigan
stamp on it.
Research from the School of
Public Health's Center for Value-
Based Insurance Design has con-
tributed directly to the legislation
that is currently being considered
in both the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
The basic philosophy of V-BID
is to encourage insurers to modify
their payout structures to make
essential drugs more affordable
for individuals, which in theory
could, over time lower their total
payouts and provide care that pro-
motes the overall health of soci-
ety.
To accomplish this, the
researchers suggest the prices of
medical products and services
should be modified so those more
beneficial to patients - like hyper-
tensionmedication - are relatively
less expensive than those less vital

Feds will no longer na patients or caregivers in the 13
states that have legalized the drug
prosecute medical for medicinal purposes. That's a
move that medical marijuana advo-
pot users in 13 states cates in Michigan say will allow
pain-stricken citizens to seek treat-
* By NICOLE ABER ment with less of an emotional bur-
Daily StaffReporter den.
- - - While the new policy will not
Patients looking to use medical change federal marijuana laws,
marijuana have just won one more many proponents of the use of
battle. marijuana for medicinal purposes
The federal government will no say the new guidelines released by
longer prosecute medical marijua- President Barack Obama's adminis-

tration are a step forward for medi-
cal marijuana initiatives.
Inastatement released by the U.S.
DepartmentofJustice last week, Dep-
uty Attorney General David Ogden
wrote that the federal regulation of
marijuana in states that have legal-
ized it for medicinal purposes has
been complicated by inconsistencies
between federal and state laws. He
also wrote that the new guidelines -
under which the federal prosecutors
will no longer intervene - reflect a
See MARIJUANA, Page 7

Jenifer Martin and Dr. Mark Fendrick, two members of the team that pushed for
Value-Based Insurance Design to be included in health care reform legislation, sit
insid'th' A AlrdTaub"man HealthtCare Center earlier thisweek

to an individual's health - like
erectile dysfunction medication.
"The people who do nothing
to keep themselves healthy pay
the same amount as those who
eat what their grandmother tells
them," said Mark Fendrick, one of
the group's researchers.
The way the health care system
functions now with co-pays, most
patients pay the same amount to
receive medical services of entire-

ly different medical values, the
researchers said. But both their
findings and the current health
care crisis indicate that this one-
size-fits-all approach isn't work-
ing.
"(Under the current system)
there's no distinction between
something that has a high - ver-
sus low-clinical value, between a
drug that would save your life or
See HEALTH CARE, Page 7

WEATHER HlI:49 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LU:36 news rlmichigandaily.comand letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
From our food blog: Easy pumpkin cupcakes.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS ................................... 2 ARTS.....................5
Vol. CXX, No. 37 SUDOKU........ ........3 CLASSIFIEDS...................6
2009JTheMichiganDaily OPINION................ .......4 SPORTS............... ..
michiyvrdoilycom


2 - Friday, October 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, October 30, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

I

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:F-
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here P

IF

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com


>.rr a: netsvat Martuha cooung auting candles for a narry Putter-
themed dinner yesterday. (ARIEL BOND/Daily) ABOVE A new human-
oid robot at the College of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
on Wednesday. (SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily) RIGHT Leaves chang-
ing on Washtenaw Avenue yesterday. (ARIEL BOND/Daily)
MORE ONLINE
Get more photos of the week at michigandailycom

CRIME NOTES
Laptop swiped
WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Wednesday at about
4:55 p.m.
WHAT: An unattended
Toshiba laptop and char-
ger was stolen from the art
lounge between 4:35 p.m. and
4:45 p.m., University Police
reported. The laptop is valued
at $700.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun-Thurs.r1 a.m. -2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections cvrrections@ichigandaily.com
letters to the Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
PhotographyDepartment photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales oninteads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@ecichigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
acob Smilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SEN OR ES EDITORS: ae ronsn, Ju,~ilianran, TrevorSCalraJnn
ukoeKle Swucason
A ^NEWTEDITORS Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Robert Soave Editorial PageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITOR IA L PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,ChrisMeszaros,RyanPodges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block. Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer,Carolyn Klarecki,Andrew Lapin, David Riva,
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie JOzwiak sales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER: MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: MichaelSchrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreu LayoutManager
Vivian Lee FinanceManager
Brittany Morales circulationManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
TheMichiganDaily(Is0745-967)isisihed MondaythroughFriday duringthefallandwinter
termsbystudentsattheUniversitytMichigan.Onecopyisavalnabletfreetchargetoalreaders.
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupatheDalysoficefor$2.Subscriptionssforalterm, startigin
september, viaU.S. mail are $110. Winter term(anuary through April) is $115, yearlong (September
rourgi s$15.Uersity afilatesaesubect totareducedisubcrtioraten-capu
subsc ipinsor temar $3Susriponsmust bnpepaid. The Michigantailyis amemberot
Thenocuied read TheAsoatiedIol git Pres.

0
0
0

Wallet stolen
WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
10 p.m.
WHAT: A wallet was stolen
from a student's jacket when
the student went to the rest-
room, University Police report-
ed. There are no suspects.

Student cited for
Trespasser
MIP, fake ID asked to leave
WHERE: Mary Markley Resi-

Halloween
rock climb
WHAT: Students are invited
to the M Rock Climbing
Wall in a Halloween cos-
tume to climb for free.
WHO: Outdoor Adventures
WHEN: Today from
5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: IM building
Etiquette
luncheon
WHAT: Keith Soster,
director of Food Service
for the University Unions,
walks students through a
4-course meal and proper
etiquette for a business
luncheon or interview.
WHO: University Unions
and Arts Programs
WHEN: Today from
noon to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Kuenzel Room

'Shaun of the
Dead' screening
WHAT: M Flicks is show-
ing a screening of Shaun
of the Dead in honor of
Halloween and is celebrat-
ing witha costume con-
test, prizes, and candy.
WHO: MFlicks
WHEN: Today from
7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Natural Sci-
ence Auditorium
French music
lecture
WHAT: Lecture discuss-
ing the truths and myths
as about historiography
as theme throughout
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Mattel unveiled its new-
est Ken doll - Palm Beach
Sugar Daddy Ken - as part
of the Adult Barbie Collector
line, according to the New York
Post. Ken comes with a white,
pet dog. The Sugar Daddy part
of his name means Ken is Sug-
ar's, the dog's, daddy.
Under new regula-
tions coal-fired plans
would be required to
cut their emissions by 90 per-
cent of 1999 levels by 2015.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Dr. Elena Bodar invent-
ed the dual-functioning
bra-mask, according to
The Chicago Tribune. The
bra wraps around the wear-
er's neck. The cups unsnap
with hooks on either side to
be used as a straps for the
mask. The bra can be used in
disasters like fires and swine
flu outbreak.

dence Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
10:15 p.m.
WHAT: A student was cited
for a minor in possession and
possessing a fake license, Uni-
versity Police reported. He was
transported to the hospital for
detoxification.

WHERE: 330 Liberty ave.
WHEN: Thursday at about
4:15 a.m.
WHAT: A non-affiliate was
located outside the building,
University Police reported. He
has been read trespass pervi-
ously and arrested on numerous
occasions.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandailycom/blogs/the wire


WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com

0
0

EU leaders open a difficult summit, facing an East-West rift over'who should pay most to entice developing nations to sign up
to a new global climate change pact.
EU debates giving aid to
join climate change fight

Leaders 'have to
achieve agreement'
today in Copenhagen
BRUSSELS (AP) - The Euro-
pean Union fought yesterday
to live up to its self-proclaimed
leadership on combating climate
change, with the 27 EU leaders
at odds over how much to offer
poorer nations to join the global
battle.
EU nations failed to agree on a
figure for climate change funding
for developing countries during a
first set of talks yesterday, Swed-
ish Prime Minister Fredrik Rein-
feldt said, promising to make new
efforts to strike a deal on the sec-
ond day of talks here today.
"On climate, we are not ready
yet. ... We have not solved it," he
told reporters after leading talks.
EU Commission President Jose
Manuel Barroso said EU lead-
ers "have to achieve" agreement
today on offering billions of euros
to developing nations that would
prove Europe's commitment to
tackling climate change ahead of
U.N. talks on a new greenhouse
gas pact in Copenhagen.
The leaders did agree on a cru-

cial issue for the union's future,
diplomats said - concessions to
the Euro-skeptic Czech president
to persuade him to sign a reform
treaty strengthening the bloc's
diplomatic power and creating
the post of a fixed EU president.
Nine eastern EU states said
earlier that they would rather
walk away from the two-day sum-
mit without an agreement than
be forced into a deal for billions
of euros that would stretch their
budgets - even if that jeopardiz-
es a global climate pact and hurts
the EU's international image.
British Prime Minister Gordon
Brown warned against waiting
for a deal, saying the stakes in the
climate change battle are too high
to bicker over who should shoul-
der how much of the burden.
"Unless we have a program for
financing the action we're tak-
ing against climate change, then
we will not get an agreement at
Copenhagen," where the U.N. cli-
mate conference kicks off Dec. 7
aimed at replacing the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol, Brown said.
The EU executive says devel-
oping nations would need annual
help of eurol0O billion ($148 bil-
lion) by 2020, of which EU gov-
ernments and companies should

contribute up to euro4O billion 6
($59 billion).
The latest draft declaration the
leaders were discussing last night
had eliminated any mention of
fund targets. Reinfeldt said EU
nations needed to take account
of how badly many of them have
been hit by the financial crisis.
It is tough to reconcile current
EU hesitancy with Europe's early
ambitions on the issue.
The Copenhagen summit is
seen as a watershed moment for
fighting climate change and for
global cooperation, and for years
the EU has been seeking out the
moral high ground, challenging
other powers such as the Unit-
ed States and China to match
Europe's commitment.
An internal EU squabble over
funding could weaken the union
globally - and just look bad.
U.N. officials say a European
declaration on finance could go
a long way toward breaking the
stalemate in the climate talks. a
Developing countries are hold-
ing back firm commitments to
slow the growth of their carbon
dioxide emissions until they
know how much aid they can
expect to adjust to changing cli-
mate conditions,


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 30, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 30, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
ADRIAN, Mich.
Robbertrieswoman's
clothes, escapes in
just boxers and cap
Police say a burglar broke into an
Adrian home before fleeing in only
his boxer shorts and a pink baseball
cap. The Daily Telegram reported
the 25-year-old Detroit man broke
into the home through a front win-
dow and removed valuables from
the woman's bedroom.
Police said he was surprised by
the home's residents and fled on
foot wearing the woman's baseball
cap and his boxer shorts.
He was arrested a short distance
away and told an officer his clothes
were taken by several girls, whom
he was chasing. His clothes were
found nearby.
He was charged with home
invasion, larceny in a building and
cocaine possession.
DULUTH, Minn.
La-Z-Boy from
drunk driving case
to be auctioned
A motorized La-Z-Boy used by a
man who pleaded guilty to driving
it drunk is going up for auction. But
police said interested bidders need to
keep it off the streets. The chair, pow-
ered by a lawnmower engine, comes
equipped with a stereo, cup holders
and lights.
Police inProctor, innorthernMin-
nesota, put the seized chair up for
auction on eBay yesterday. The pro-
ceeds will go to the police, state and
the prosecutingattorney.
But Chief Walter Wobig cautions
that the chair isn't "street legal," so
any buyer should stick to the living
room- or atmost aparade.
The former owner, Dennis LeRoy
Anderson, pleaded guilty this month
to operating the chair while intoxi-
cated. His family is also auctioning
on eBay an autographed photo of him
riding the La-Z-Boy to help with his
fees.
GRAND HAVEN TOWNSHIP, Mich.
Remains of missing
man identified on
Lke Michiganbeach
t a e M c i a e c.Police say technicians used DNA
from a Wisconsin man's twin broth-
er to identify him after his remains
washed up on a Lake Michigan
beach.
Mike Scaffidi of Hartland, Wis.,
had been missing since July 2005,
when he and three other men were
. thrown from a powerboat that over-
Wturned about two miles southwest
of Holland. A 20-year-old Rhode
Island man died and the other pas-
sengers were rescued.
The 42-year-old Scaffidi's
remains were discovered July 15,
2008 in Ottawa County's Grand
Haven Township, about 15 miles
north of the crash site.
Sheriff's Lt. Mark Bennett says
samples of the remains were sent to
a forensic laboratory at the Univer-
sity of North Texas, where Scaffidi's
DNA was matched with that of his

identical twin.
Family members are arranging
for a funeral in Wisconsin.
DALLAS
Law permitting
children to view
pornography under
fire in Texas court
A 1970s-era Texas law that al-
lows parents to show "harmful ma-
terial" to their children has come
under fire after a prosecutor said
he couldn't file charges against a
man accused of forcing his 8- and
9-year-old daughters to watch
hardcore online pornography.
Randall County District Attor-
ney James Farren has asked the
Texas attorney general's office to
review his decision not to pursue
charges in the case, which has
prompted at least one lawmaker to
vow to change the state's public in-
decency law.
"Our hands are tied. It's not our
fault. I have to follow the law," Far-
ren said yesterday. "The mother of
the victims in this case was less
than happy with this decision,
which I understand. We were less
than happy with the statute."
The law apparently was meant to
protect the privacy of parents who
wanted to teach children about
sex education, but it states clearly
that parents can't be prosecuted
for showing "harmful material" to
their children.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Prescription
drug bust nets
322 people

U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, center right, poses for photos beside Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Meh
mood Qureshi, center left, and two unidentified people in front of the Badshahi Mosque in Lahore, Pakistan, Thursday.
Clinton: Pakistan
I - 1 alags ina-QaIdahuni

. Police officers put
stop to multi-state
drug trafficking
s LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) - More
than 300 people were arrested and
200 more targeted in a crackdown
on a multi-state prescription pill
pipeline, a bust that Kentucky offi-
cials said yesterday was the largest
in the state's history.
Police officers fanning out across
mostly eastern Kentucky this week
AP had arrested 322 people bymidafter-
noon inpursuit ofabout 500suspects
who face charges related to illegal
trafficking of prescription drugs,
officials said at a newsconference.
Kentucky State Police Com-
missioner Rodney Brewer said
the roundup, a joint state-federal
effort, comes after a three-year
investigation and is "striking at
the heart of major drug traffick-
ing organizations and crippling
illegal prescription drug pipelines
ive that are running from Florida into
tan Kentucky."
bal Authorities have not identi-
fied a leader in the drug traffick-
m," ing but did pinpoint one suspect
an- who allegedly headed a group of13
nd other accused traffickers.
n." Thatgroup,whichoperatedfrom
the 2005 to 2008, traveled to Pennsyl-
trt- vania, Ohio and Florida to obtain
ght methadone and oxycodone pills to
put sell in eastern Kentucky, authori-
rhy ties said. The group's alleged leader
re. faces at least 20 years and possibly
has life in prison if convicted.
sia, Kentucky uses an electronic
her prescription monitoring program
to try to prevent abuses.
est Shelley Johnson,aspokeswoman
ing for the state attorney general, said
er- after the state started the system,
ate. many residents migrated to other
in states, particularly South Florida,
to obtain multiple prescriptions
bad from pain clinics. and sold the pills,
iki- she said.

"We are well aware that due
to other states not having similar
systems, we have pipelines that
are emerging to bring too many of
these addictive substances into our
Commonwealth," Kentucky Attor-
ney General Jack Conway said.
Because Florida was the largest
of just a handful of states without
such tracking, it had become the
nation's leading supplier of pre-
scription drugs obtained for illicit
purposes.
A bill signed this year by Florida
Gov. Charlie Crist would set up
such a system, designed to crack
down on so-called "doctor shop-
ping" by addicts and drug dealers
who flock to Florida from through-
out the Southeast.
Federal Drug Enfotcement
Administration officials say South
Florida's Broward County, where
doctors wrote prescriptions for more
than 6.5 million oxycodone pills
from June to December 2008, is the
nation's top supplier of the narcotic.
In Kentucky, Brewer said that
the number of illegal pills pur-
chased or confiscated as part of
the state police investigation num-
bered "in the tens of thousands."
He said authorities had not yet
determined a street value for the
seized pills.
Last year, 877 deaths.in Ken-
tucky were caused by prescription
drug overdoses, Brewer said.
Bob McBridewiththe U.S.Attor-
ney's Office said he is unaware of
charges against any doctors in the
investigation.
Brewer said the majority of the
state-level charges were for traf-
ficking in controlled substances,
offenses that could land people in
prison for up to 20 years-if con-
victed.
McBride said the federal charges
includeconspiracytodistributecon-
trolled substances and distribution
of controlled substances - mostly
methadone and OxyContin- as
well as money laundering.

In blunt statements,
Clinton pressures
Pakistan to uncover
terrorist hideouts
ISLAMABAD (AP) - U.S. Sec-
retary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton chided Pakistani officials
yesterday for failing to press the
hunt for al-Qaida inside their bor-
ders, suggesting they know where
the terror leaders are hiding.
American officials have long
said that al-Qaida mastermind
Osama bin Laden and senior lieu-
tenants of the network accused in
the Sept. 11 attacks operate out of
the rugged terrain along the bor-
der with Afghanistan.
But Clinton's unusually blunt
comments went further in assert-
ing that Pakistan's government
has done too little about it.
"I find it hard to believe that
nobody in your government knows
where they are and couldn't get
them if they really wanted to,"
Clinton said in an interview with
Pakistani journalists in Lahore.
"Maybe that's the case. Maybe
they're not gettable. I don't know."
There was no immediate reac-
tion from Pakistani officials, but
the thrust of Clinton's comments
were startling, coming after

months of lavish public comments
from her and other American offi-
cials portraying Pakistan's lead-
ers as finally receptive to the war
against militants inside their own
country.
As a political spouse, career
public official and recently as
a diplomat, Clinton has long
showed a tendency toward blunt-
ness, sometimes followed by a
softening of her comments. But
her remarks about Pakistan's lack
of action against al-Qaida comes
at a particularly sensitive moment
- amid a major Pakistani offen-
sive against militants and a deadly
spate of insurgent violence.
With Pakistan reeling from
Wednesday's devastating bomb-
ing that killed more than 100
people in Peshawar, Clinton
also engaged in an intense give-
and-take with students at the
Government College of Lahore.
She insisted that inaction by the
government would have ceded
ground to terrorists.
"If you want to see your terri-
tory shrink, that's your choice,"
she said, adding that she believed
it would be a bad choice.
Richard Holbrooke, the special
U.S. representative on Afghani-
stan and Pakistan, told reporters
that Clinton planned to meet late
yesterday with the army chief,
Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, to

get an update on the offens
that began Oct. 17 against Talib
forces in a portion of the tri
areas near the Afghan border. .
"We want to encourage thet
Holbrooke said of the Pakist,
is. "She wants to get a firstha
account of the military situatio
During her exchange witht
Pakistani journalists, one repo
er asked Clinton why the fi
against terrorism seemed to
Pakistan at the center and w
other countries couldn't do mo
Clinton noted that al-Qaida I
launched attacks on Indone
the Philippines and many otl
countries over the years.
"So the world has an inter
in seeing the capture and kill
of the people who are the mast
minds of this terrorist syndica
As far as we know, they are
Pakistan."
On Clinton's flight to Islamal
after the interview with Pa
stani journalists, U.S. Ambas
dor Anne Patterson said Clinto
remarks approximate what
Obama administration has t
Pakistani officials in private.
"We often say, 'Yes, there ne
to be more focus on finding th(
leaders,"' Patterson said. "I
other thing is, they lost toni
of much of this territory in rec
years, and that's why they're
South Waziristan right now."

sa-
)n's
the
old
eds
rhe
trl
ent
in

Al Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
SI- a 7 6 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Maynard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure
H,.-,0i

Detroit ex-mayor pleads for
lower payments on restitution
Kilpatrick lays

finances bare, claims
bills are mounting
DETROIT (AP) - The personal
finances of Kwame and Carlita
Kilpatrick - and relationships the
disgraced ex-Detroit mayor had
with five of the city's most promi-
nent businessmen - were laid
wide open as he tried to persuade
a judge tolower monthly payments
on a $1 million restitution.
Outside of $914,000 still owed
the city as part of pleas in two
criminal cases, Kilpatrick testified
yesterday in Wayne County Cir-
cuit Court that he still owes attor-
neys $650,000 and eventually has
to repay personal loans totaling
$240,000.
The loans from Roger Penske,
Jim Nicholson, Dan Gilbert and
Peter Karmanos were given in
installments beginning Feb. 4 -
the day after Kilpatrick's release
from jail.
It also was disclosed yester-
day that billionaire Ambassador
Bridge owner Manuel Moroun
gave the former mayor's wife and
three sons a $50,000 gift.
Prosecutors are trying to prove
that Kilpatrick has not reported
all of his income and finances as
ordered by Judge David Groner.
He is accused of trying to circum-
vent the order by putting money
into various accounts bearing his
wife's name.
During questioning, Kilpatrick
said he signed over $150,000 in
checks from the four businessmen
to Carlita Kilpatrick, and testified
to having no knowledge of her
finances. He also testified that he
doesn't know if she has a job.
Kilpatrick said he was not sure
who is paying the rent on the cou-
ple's mansion in an affluent Dallas
suburb.
"I guess it's a leased home and

DAVID GURALNICK/E
Former Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick listens during court proceedings Thurs
day at the Frank Murphy Hall of Justice in Detroit.

I'm not party to that lease," he
said. "I assume my wife is paying
the rentbecause I'm not."
Kilpatrick is a salesman for
Covisint, a Texas-based subsid-
iary of Compuware Corp., which
is headquartered in downtown
Detroit. Karmanos is Compu-
ware's chairman and CEO.
Penske is CEO of Penske Auto-
motive Group. Nicholson is presi-
dent and CEO of PVS Chemicals
Inc. Gilbert, founder and chair-
man of Quicken Loans Inc., owns
the NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers.
Each had done business with
the city or weredeeply involved in
activities there during Kilpatrick's
six years as mayor.
Compuware's headquarters is in
the city's downtown, and Gilbert
announced during Kilpatrick's
tenure that he would move Quick-
en Loans' headquarters from Livo-
nia to downtown Detroit.
Kilpatrick was charged with

perjury following the January
2008 release of sexually explicit
text messages he shared with his
former chief of staff. Those mes-
sages contradicted testimony
Kilpatrick had given in an earlier
police whistleblowers' lawsuit.
He resigned as mayor in Sep-
tember 2008 after pleading guilty
to obstruction of justice and plead-
ing no contest to assault. He spent
99 days injail.'
Gilbert admitted yesterday in a
statement that he and other busi-
ness leaders made personal loans
to Kilpatrick.
"In our view it was important for
the City, and the entire region, that
the Mayor leave office as soon as
was practical," Gilbert said in the
statement. "The belief was that the
Mayor would make the decision to
leave office sooner knowing that
a loan would be made available to
him for the welfare of his family at
some time in the near future."

ElN FORMATICS
An itrdScilnaymao a h
Still undecided about a major? Starting to think about what
to take in the winter term? You are invited to attend:
Introduction to Informatics
Wednesday, November 4
6:00-.7:00 PM
Undergraduate Science Building (USB), Room 1250
Learn about Informatics and the four tracks of study:
" Computational Informatics
* Data Mining & Information Analysis
Life Science Informatics
. Social Computing
RSVPs to informatics@umich.edu helpful but not required.


0

4 - Friday, October 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

C I
4e Michigan 4:3at'6'lu

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I

INS SRI

;. "
}" ^ d
i Y
f j
Y ,s :fit^. i [ .T .'

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

S' to there, lve 'O art the
Q rassoodocks tv s eve v'
S ha* s
0 Sal,"" vr

! rt headd v ~
brob(
Op rrwlhll l n

Li

f

You kidding) The ladies are
going to LOVE thes, -
costumes
r _ ik;.b

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

ROBERT SOAVE
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the oficial positio nfthe Daily's editorialboard. All other signed articles
and illustrations repsresent solely the views of their authors.
Mercury rising
Regulating mercury emissions will protect environment
Michigan's environment is under attack by a dangerous
chemical: mercury. But new state regulations could cur-
tail its effects. The Michigan Department of Environ-
mental Quality announced regulations on Oct. 19 that will require
significant cuts in the levels of mercury that coal-fired plants are
permitted to emit. These regulations are necessary to protect Mich-
igan's environment, as well as state residents' health, from the dan-
gerous effects of mercury. Michigan energy producers should jump
at the chance to improve their emissions' quality.

Lets' talk about sexonomics

Michigan is the 19th state to regulate mer-
cury emissions. Under the new regulations
- which were under consideration for three
years - coal-fired plants would be required
to slash their mercury emissions by 90 per-
cent of 1999 levels by 2015. Since these plants
generate 60 percent of Michigan's electric-
ity, the impact of a reduction in emissions
will be tangible. It is estimated that 3,600
less pounds of mercury will be released into
the air each year.
Mercury pollution has a real effect on
public health and the ecosystem. It perme-
ates into the lakes and is extremely toxic to
the human nervous system. Mercury from
the atmosphere falls into waterways where
it takes the form of methylmercury. The
chemical infects small fish and plankton
and can make its way up the food chain. In
addition to disrupting the environment, this
becomes dangerous to the public in the form
of commonly eaten fish, which may contain
unsafe levels of mercury. Regulating mer-
cury emissions will make for cleaner water
and a healthier environment.
And a healthy environment is undeni-
ably vital to the state's well-being. Tour-
ism is Michigan's third-largest industry,
and environmental regulations will help
preserve and increase the attractiveness of
the state's natural resources to visitors. The
Great Lakes, for instance, will be in better
condition once mercury emissions are seri-

ously curbed. Fishing, among other things,
depends upon a healthy ecosystem.
Reducing emissions levels so drastically
is certainly an ambitious goal. But it often
takes ambitious goals for any progress to be
made. Even if every plant doesn't reach the
set goals, the result would still be a drastic
reduction in mercury levels. Besides, tech-
nologies do exist for reducing the amount of
mercury exiting power plants, like advanced
scrubbers and carbon injectors. And lower
mercury levels will be worth the potential
rise in energy prices.
State mercury regulations can help better
public health and improve the condition of
Michigan's environment. But federal coal
plant mercury regulations would be even
more valuable. Luckily, the Environmental
Protection Agency plans to introduce such
new regulations by November 2011. This
implementation will not only bring down
mercury emissions across the country, but
also even the playing field for coal plants
so that business is not disproportionately
affected on a state-by-state basis.
Lower mercury emissions are condu-
cive to healthier people and a better envi-
ronment. The Michigan DEQ is correct to
demand so much of the power producers -
it conveys the message that the environment
is serious business. Coal-fired power plants
should embrace these regulations to help
make Michigan healthier.

hen the Modern Library
polled more than 200,000
readers in 1998 to compile
its 100 Best Novels
list, voters in they
poll selected writ- p
er Ayn Rand, an
objectivist novelist,
as the clear winner.
Books by Rand took
the top two spots
and a total of four
places in the top 10. BRIAN
Rand's popularity FLAHERTY
otn college campus-
es atndelsewhere
has stemmed large.
ly from the appeal and controversy
of her views on topics like rational-
ity and capitalism, but she also had a
very interesting perspective on rela-
tionships, which could be described
as laissez-faire meets sexuality.
Herview that relationships should be
an exchange of value, in many ways
parallel to an economic transaction,
is both useful for thinking about
modern relationships and increas-
ingly reflective of a reality in which
it's okay (and, in many cases, ideal) to
shop around.
When many of our parents were
young, "going steady" and dating
were the customary practices sur-
rounding relationships. Our great-
grandparents might have been more
familiar with "calling." On college
campuses today, traditional dating
has been largely supplanted with the
ultimately more liberalizing hook-
up culture. Keeping things casual
has increasingly become the norm
in colleges, and it has become both
common and socially acceptable for
young people to engage in "hookups"
- a conveniently ambiguous term
that refers to anything from kissing
to bumping uglies outside the context
of a committed and monogamous
relationship.
In her book "Hooking Up: Sex, Dat-
ing, and Relationships on Campus,"
researcher Kathleen Bogle indicates
that as much as 78 percent of college
students at large public universities
engage in hookups. And friends-
with-benefits relationships - which

involve intimacy and passion with
low commitment - are now common
as well. A recent study by Bisson and
Levine called "Negotiating a Friends
with Benefits Relationship" suggest-
ed that 60 percent of college students
have engaged in such relationships.
A lot of young adults today are defer-
ring committed relationships to later
in life, a fact that's evidenced in the
ages at which people are marrying:
on average at roughly 27 for men and
25 for women. All in all, it seems most
college studentsand recent graduates
are opting in favor of keeping their
optiotas open.
In market economies, -,consum-
ers benefit from the freedom to shop
around, compare products and select
the ones that provide the value they're
looking for at the lowest cost. Mod-
ern behavior toward relationships is
in many ways similar - students can
interact with a wide variety of people
in a variety of ways while having the
freedom to attempt relationships
with those who provide the greatest
value for the cost.
But pairing up looks a lot different
in an ideal economic market. For one
thing, there's the big complication
that every person is unique. It's rela-
tively easy to assess a watchamacal-
lit in a store, but hard to really know
the traits of another person. Markets
have ways of dealing with problems
like this, but a lot of them don't work
for relationships. If I buy a hoodie
and decide I don't like it, I can simply
return it - this reduces my concern
that I don't know about the quality
and value of the product I'm buying.
Romantic partners are a lot harder
to simply return, which is one reason
why it's often advantageous for peo-
ple to get more information - to get
to know each other in casual settings
and compare one another to other
people they've previously known -
before they buy the goods.
Aside from Match.com and its ilk,
the "market" for human partners is
also pretty fragmented, making it
hard for many people to locate what
they're looking for. If someone is
looking for a partner with a rare per-
sonality type and particular traits, it
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

can be pretty difficult to find one. So
sometimes, the most rational strat-
egy is a shopping approach - to meet,
flirt, try out and do various other
things with alot of people to increase
your chances of encountering one
you're willing to hold onto. One ben-
efit of modern sexual culture is that
it allows people to practice this to a
greater extent.
With love, it's best
to shop around on
the market.
Probably the biggest problem in
forming relationships is that many
people simply don't know what they
want. Rational people have prefer-
ences about what they want from
most products when they buy them.
But while intelligent adults consider
factors like whether or not their car
is kid-friendly before they purchase
it, they often fail to give an hon-
est assessment of whether a person
they have feelings for can really pro-
vide the sort of intimacy, interaction
and experiences they want. Just as
consumers can make a bad decision
when they lack a good understand-
ing of what they want, people tend to
make bad decisions when they enter
relationships without knowing their
preferences in relationships, intima-
cy and partners.
In relationships, as in economics,
people suffer negative consequences
when they don't inject rationality
into their decision-making. It's my
view, and I think Ayn Rand's, that an
ideal relationship occurs not as the
result of mere chance or uncontrol-
lable' feeliigs, but when two people
recognize the value in being with one
another and make an informed deci-
sion to do so~,
- Brian Flaherty is an associate
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at bfla@umich.edu.

FELIX LOPEZ I
Halloween unmasked

Once again, the time of the year has come for
everyone to pick out their costumes, bring out
the treats and have a good ol' time in Ann Arbor.
And yet, as females walk down South University
wearing "sexy" costumes and people think it's
entertaining to dress up as Native Americans, it
is vital to address the ignorance of Halloween.
What is easily forgotten in the cloud of excite-
ment and inebriation is the trouble Halloween
generates. Centered on disguises, Oct. 31 is seen
by many as an excuse to cause mischief in the
name of good-natured fun. But Halloween often
gives students permission to assume a personal-
ity that offends other communities and identities.
There are serious implications involved when a
person is having a "good time" with an unaccept-
able costume. Few understand the ramifications
of a holiday that often uses this alternate reality
to descend into racism and hypersexualizaiton.
The irresponsible racist actions that Hallow-
een sometimes prompts are not just seen at this
University, but on other campuses as well. The
University of Texas Law School faced this issue
in 2006, when students hosted a "Ghetto Fabu-
lous" costume party. This party displayed ste-
reotypical black and Latino names, apparel and
objects. When pictures surfaced on the Internet,
there was outrage amongst the black and Latino
communities. But the problem was not properly
resolved, and students who had participated in
the event were given a simple warning. Dean of
the UniversityofTexas School ofLawLarrySager
recalled thatitwas "understandable thatstudents
could innocently misbehave in this way," accord-
ing to a Nov. 2, 2006 Associated Press article. To
the targeted black and Latino community, this
response was wrong and inconsiderate. To state
that it was understandable for adult law students
to have "innocently" misbehaved is unacceptable.
The law students weren't little kids - they knew
what they were doing.
In spite of the fact that there are some respons-
es on college campuses that consent to offensive
BELLA SHAH

actions shown on Halloween, there are signs of
improvement. At the University of Richmond,
after a student saw an unknown person in black-
face who portrayed himself as an African Ameri-
can, University President Edward Ayers stated
that the racial incident had "no place on this cam-
pus." Though there was no direct punishment to
the offender because of his anonymity, there was
an acknowledgment by Ayers that strengthening
stereotypes of a certain group is unethical.
But racism isn't Halloween's only negative
result. Overtly sexual Halloween costumes are
the trend for many womenbecause the media por-
trays that as desirable. Scantily clad women per-
petuate gender stereotypes that depict women as
objects subject to the male gaze. Though women
should have the right to feel sexually liberated,
which might be the intention of wearing a "sexy"
costume, they should be prepared for males to
react accordingly.
It's important for the University of Michigan to
forewarn students that, among other reprehensible
actions, Halloween makes it easier to commit acts
of vandalism and to reinforce damaging stereo-
types without fear of repercussions due to their
shrouded identity. As college students, we should
be competent enough to be fully aware of our
actions and their consequences. It is our duty to
build a safe campus community during Halloween,
and that requires adeeper analysis of the holiday.
Tonight, FightingObstaclesKnowingUltimate
Success (FOKUS) is presenting ART-I-FAKTS:
HALLO (WHAT?!), a student art showcase and
reception that will illustrate, examine and ques-
tion all the aspects of Halloween - not just the
negative ones. The event is from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
in the Kelsey Museum and is free to the public.
Come prepared to decorate pumpkins, engage in
dialogue and vibe to the sounds ofDJ Professor
Purple and DJ Seek Selekta while perusing our
art display.
Felix Lopez is a member of FOKUS.
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU
" A OL. UME
ET
t ,
I I

Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya,
Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

0

Midterm meltdown

t's an unfortunate fact of life that
most of us will have to take final
exams or write final papers at the
end of this semes-
ter, and another fact;
that finals are, with
very few excep-
tions, mind-numb- 7
ing and emotionallyI
devastating. Luck-
ily for us, though, f
there is a time des- L
ignated solely for
final exams dur- JAMIE
ing which we have BLOCK
nothing to do but
study, procrasti-
nate, obsess and
stay up all night reading a tomato
sauce-stained textbook, without the
pesky interferences of class and other
homework.
But for midterms and midterm
papers, we aren't so fortunate. My
midterm schedule has been stretched
across several weeks, and I know that
this isn't a unique situation. Everyone
I know seems to have midterms and
large papers popping up all over the
place, even now. Midterms may, in
theory, often be slightly easier than
finals, or at least cover a more narrow
scope of material. But students still
deserve more of a study period than
Fall Break, which comes after mid-
terms for many students, anyway.
To balance the difference, I
propose that the University treat
midterm season the same way it
treats finals season. The University
wouldn't have to set aside more than
a week to accomplish this task, since
some classes with finals don't have
midterms, meaning there would be
fewer potential scheduling conflicts.
If, instead of Fall Break, we had that
entire week devoted solely to mid-
terms and devoid of classes, it would
be a far better system than the one
currently in place.
One obvious objection is that it
means several class sessions that

professors currently count on would
be off the schedule. But this could be
easily remedied. The University gives
us one of the longest summers on
record eachyear, and isn't technically
even obligated to offer any minimum
number of sessions of each class. To
prolong the school year by only three
days hardly seems like a great sacri-
fice by the student body in exchange
for a more suitable midterm system.
And I would argue that even if extend-
ing the year is ultimately impractical,
losing those teaching days in favor of
a better evaluation system is a worthy
trade-off
The relaxation students would
miss on those three once-summer,
now-school days is far less than the
relaxation gained from not having
to juggle midterms with everything
else going on at the time. Without
the distractions of homework, classes
and student group meetings, mid-
term season would no longer make
students angry at every little time
commitment that stands in the way
of their studying. Obviously, exams
are always somewhat stressful, but
this can never and should never be
completely alleviated - attending the
University of Michigan should come
with some stress. But any exam stress
should come from studying the mate-
rial, not from the obstacles prevent-
ing you from doing so.
There are also those who fear
classes would lose momentum, but
in my experience, midterms already
cause this. Classes slow down for
review anyway, so it may as well be
at a uniform time. Also, holding the
exams during a set time equalizes
the playing field for all students,
while the current system allows
some students plenty of time to study
for an exam that other students may
have no time for. We consider fair-
ness on final exams to be important
enough to merit setting aside time
for them, and midterms should be
no different.

While the goal isn't to enable all
students to pass every exam with fly-
ing colors, there is a large possibility
that many students would do better
with the altered system - and this,
because it would happen for the right
reasons, would be a great thing. I am
not a proponent of arbitrary grade
inflation or overly generous profes-
sors - grades should be deserved
- but if an otherwise beneficial pol-
icy also happens to lead to students
doing better on exams, surely this is
something worth embracing. With
a less stressful and more equal set-
ting, students would be better able
to show accurately how much they
have learned a the material at hand
- not just how much they were able
to cram in between fulfilling their
many other obligations. The Uni-
versity should be in full support of a
system that leads to students getting
grades that are more reflective of
actual comprehension.
Like finals, these
exams should get
their own week.
It seems difficult, then, for the
University to argue against a uni-
form exam policy. It creates an equal
playing field for students and lowers
unnecessary stress. The only major
complaints I hear from other stu-
dents about the existing finals policy
stem from some classes not actually
following those policies. To apply
that system to midterms and midterm
papers feels like a logical and overdue
next step.
-Jamie Bock is a senior
arts editor. He can be reached
at jarblock@umich.edu.

6
6

z-.
~s', ,
: ^*w.a...-.
r
I
"
" i
i
,: .-
;t '.3 .
j.;
:,r
sfsr

,, ,

'I

0
6



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 30, 2009 - 5

Basement Arts' new musical features Dick and a lot of Pussies.

A boy and his penis

'Me and My Dick' explores
the relationship between
man and his real best friend
By DAVID RIVA
Daily FineArts Editor
The stage has always been a place to pres-
ent and magnify some of life's most difficult
moments. A boy's struggle to understand his
peculiar friendship with his private parts,
however, is a topic not often tackled in theater.
"Me and My Dick," a new
musical presented by the Me and
student-run theater organi-
zation Basement Arts, tack-
les the taboo subject of sex At Walgreen
during the teenage years by Drama Center,
seeing what it would be like if Studio 1
we could communicate with
our reproductive organs. Tonightat p.m.
Although this concept might tm rro1a p.m.
appear to be a bit shallow,
a humorous and heartfelt Free
script along with solid casting and an intrigu-
ing yet twisted plot (and a number of subplots)
keep the potentially superficial idea afloat.
"Me and My Dick" tells the story of classic
nerd Joey Richter (played by Music, Theatre
& Dance junior Joey Richter) and his best
friend and notable body part Dick (played by
Music, Theatre & Dance senior Joe Walker).
Together, they desperately want to lose Joey's
"V-card" with the most beautiful Jew in the
entire school: Vanessa (played by Music, The-

atre & Dance junior Ali Gordon). Referred to
as "Weiner Wild" by his classmates, Joey is
always popping them at the wrong time and
has no chance with the woman of his (wet)
dreams.
Or does he?
The play takes on a degree of complexity as
we're introduced to each character's genita-
lia. The plot ends up becoming more about the
drama between reproductive organs than the
relationships between the people.
Each character is accompanied by his or her
private part, with body and part being held to
together by a retractable dog leash. The Dicks'
costumes are flesh-colored sweatshirts and
sweatpants with balloons near the ankles for
testicles and a little pink stocking cap for ...
well, you get the picture.
Both men and women are cast as the Puss-
ies, and they are adorned in a variety of pink
apparel. One Pussy in particular, The Old
Snatch (played by Music, Theatre & Dance
junior Nick Joseph Strauss-Matathia), steals
the show with her over-done accent, comnsically
cynical outlook on love and show-saving plot to
reunite Joey with his Dick after they are tragi-
cally separated.
So who came up with this ridiculous con-
cept of people being followed around by their
private parts?
"One of the writers came up with the idea
after he had an unsuccessful night with a girl,"
director and Music, Theatre & Dance junior
Matt Lang explained. "She tried to have sex
with him, and he tried to comply (though he
felt a little weird about it) but he wasn't able to
get an erection. It got him thinking about this

part of himself that he didn't have conscious
control of and was such a major influence in
his life. If he could talk to his dick, what would
he say? What would it say back? It seemed like
a funny way to explore self-identity through
sexuality."
It may seem absurd to say that by getting to
know your penis or vagina, you find out more
about yourself, but within the context of the
play, it works.
But let's make something clear: "Me and My
Dick," although towing the line of inappropri-
ate and offensive, is not explicitly sexual or
shocking at any point.
"We have tried to keep the play very
abstract," Lang said. "There isn't a lot of literal
anatomy going on in the play. There's much
more focus on the emotional lives of the char-
acters."
Although the script has its share of memo-
rable one-liners like "We don't go to school for
class, we go for ass" and "Foreskin, no skin,
everyone's in," the production's motivations
are mostly pure.
"The play definitely is tackling a taboo sub-
ject, but our goal in this play is not to shock or
offend," Lang explained. "We want to explore
the way sex plays into our lives in an honest
and funny way. We hope that by the end of the
play people no longer think about their genitals
and the words we have for them as dirty."
Crossing the line or not, "Me and My Dick"
handles the issue of teens having sex better
than most of those cheesy videos you watched
in high school health class. Unfortunately,
the play came a few years too late to help you
through those turbulent adolescent times.

Kerouac's
perfect pair
By MIKE KUNTZ tive. The true test for the success
Daily Arts Writer of any singer-songwriter collabora-
tion is in found in vocal harmony,
Jack Kerouac was one of those and for the songs in which both
rare writers who had his finger on vocalists are present ("Low Life
the pulse of an Kingdom," "All in One" and the
entire cultural *** title track are prime examples),
movement as it Farrar and Gibbard pass with fly-
was happening - Ben Gibbard ing colors. Gibbard lends a sweet-
namely, the Beat and J Farrar ness that Farrar's voice has always
movement of the lacked, and the same holds true for
1950s and early One Fast Move Farrar's grit against Gibbard's thin-
1960s. Butsudden or I'm Gone ness. Together, they round out each
fame and years as F-Stop/Atlantic other's shortcomings well.
a vagabond takes Apart from its songwriting, One
its toll, as Ker- Fast Move's greatest qualities lie in
ouac's 1962 novel "Big Sur" famous- its production, with acoustic guitars,
ly chronicled in its account of the pedal steels and inspired vocal melo-
author's personal deterioration in dies giving the album plenty of color.
the wake of severe alcoholism. If anything, it's the presentation
The album companion to Jim of Kerouac's prose that falls short:
Sampas's 2009 documentary of the
same name, One Fast Move or I'm
Gone pairs Ben Gibbard (Death Cab
for Cutie) with Jay Farrar (Son Volt) Conjuring a dead
to put prose from "Big Sur" with writer to make a
melody. Gibbard and Farrar found
a mutual admiration for Kerouac's few n songs.
work when asked to record a few new
tracks for Sampas's documentary,
and they set out to piece together a
full album after finding chemistry Kerouac's writing has a much more
in the studio. In similar fashion to frantic quality than either Farrar or
Wilco and Billy Bragg's Mermaid Gibbard can muster on these tracks,
Avenue sessions, the conjuring of and sadly they don't do it justice.
dead writers for new songs proves to More often than not, the lyrical
be a winning formula here. phrasing sounds too forced: Farrar's
The Gibbard-Farrar pairing cer- blue-collarbaritonedoeslittletoani-
tainly seems out of left field at first mate Kerouac's prose, and Gibbard's
glance, as Death Cab's typically shaky, boyish tenor sounds much too
lighter, more pop-friendly songwrit- innocent to embody the same voice
ing is a far cry from Farrar's slower, as Sal Paradise or Jack Duluoz. Ker-
more pensive roots rock. But where ouac, often sprawling and imagistic
Farrar is often too gloomy and Gib- to a fault, was certainly not intend-
bard too sweet, One Fast Move joins ed for a format as condensed as the
them somewhere in the middle to four-minute folk song. If only trum-
the benefit of each. pets - a la Keruac's own musical
"These Roads Don't Move" is a heroes - could speak!
perfect combination of each song- The key to One Fast Move lies in
writer's strengths, featuring both viewing the record as not merely an
Farrar's knack for classic Ameri- homage to Kerouac, but as a proj-
cana and Gibbard's brighter vocals ect between two very talented and
and pop sensibility: They even play established songwriters. This is a
into each other's styles - Gibbard's Gibbard-Farrar album after all, and
"Willamine" sounds like a Farrar as the pair tours select American cit-
creation from the start. More som- ies this fall in support of the album,
her and meditative than Gibbard's the collaborative moniker might
usual work, the vocal melody is start to build some clout all its own.
loaded with strange intervals and Aside from some compositional
suspended notes. The result is pure and conceptual lapses, Gibbard and
Son Volt, but seen through Gib- Farrar offer some terrific songs,
bard's eyes. with enough old, weird Americana
While it's often obvious to see to keep the Beat tradition alive. It's
who had a bigger influence in writ- just a shame the record doesn't run
ing each song, the Gibbard-Farrar off the rails a little more - Kerouac
coupling is surprisingly collabora- never sounded so stable.
WRITE FOR ARTS
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.

A classic character robbed of identity

By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
For whatever reason, the
folks at Summit
Entertainment **
are aggressive-
ly promoting Astro Boy
"Astro Boy" to
college cam- At Showcase
puses. Maybe and Quality 16
it's something Summit
about the nos-
talgic appeal of the brand name
- the Japanese comic book
series on which the film is based
dates back to the 1950s and is
widely considered some of the
best manga ever written. The
subsequent anime adaptation is a
pioneering work of art.
Even still, here we are in 2009
with a completely Americanized
film adaptation that has white-
washed out every Japanese influ-
A robotic film
lacking soul.
ence except the big doe eyes, and
the result is nothing more than a
bland movie for bland kiddies.
Because the source material for
"Astro Boy" pre-dates most mod-
ern science fiction, it's difficult
to say who's ripping off whom.
But still, there's no denying that
the opening sequence - a mock-
infomercial extolling the virtues
of robots built for human service,
played in a city floating above piles
of garbage on the Earth's sur-
face - plays like a carbon copy of
"WALL-E." Even if this moment
and later moments that seem to
reference "The Iron Giant" and
"I, Robot" are just coincidental,
the film doesn't add anything new
or interesting to these basic sci-fi
concepts, which is troubling in
itself.
Also concerning is the lack of
enthusiasm on display from the
voice actors. Voice acting is the

least important aspect of an ani-
mated film until it becomes dis-
tracting. The professional actor
who plays Astro (Freddy High-
more, "Finding Neverland") is
somehow much less convincing
with his screams and shouts of
glee than the star of "Up" (first-
timer Jordan Nagai).
Nicolas Cage is here too as
Astro's father, who rebuilds his
human son as a robot after he is
killed by a rogue experiment. Pre-
dictably, Nathan Lane ("The Lion
King") is the most comfortable
behind the mic: His character, a
Fagin-like repairman who houses
orphans in his foster home, is one
of the only people in the film who
gets any laughs.
There's too much and yet not
enough going on in "Astro Boy."
The plot takes forever to getcoff the
ground, as the first act is setcalmost
entirely in small, claustrophobic,
blue-tinted rooms and the audi-
ence is never given a sense that a
real city exists outside of them. It
seems like the filmmakers are try-
ing to wrestle with deeper ques-
tions about philosophy - there's
a reference to Kant's "Critique of
Pure Reason" in the film - while
trying to work in some clumsy
political satire. A sleazy politi-
cian's re-election banner reads,
"It's Not Time for Change." Does
any of this work? Not really.
The movie picks up when Astro
leaves his city for the wild, any-
thing-goes lifestyle found on the
planet's surface. It's here where he
meets the hilarious Robot Revolu-
tion Front (RRF) and stays in an
orphanage where a girl cuts her
pizza with a chainsaw. Unfortu-
nately, these moments of relative
brilliance don't do enough to off-
set the ridiculously predictable
story arc, nor do they redeem the
Saturday-morning-cartoons-in-
shiny-Spandex vibe that perme-
ates the rest of the film. There's so
much under-utilized potential in
the RRF that it feels like an entire-
ly separate movie starring them
was cut out of this one.

Despite its attempts to be memories of your son. Doesn't that
warm and fuzzy, this kid's movie mean anythingto you?"
can't escape its cold and robot- "Astro Boy" is programmed
ic demeanor. A heartfelt talk with the memories of a great fran-
between two scientists hits the chise, but ultimately the film lacks
film's emotional climax when one a soul, and it shouldn't mean any-
says, "He's programmed with the thing to you.

Get a head start on the application process:
* Get insider tips from the directors of admissions at the Ross School and the Law School.
* Learn how to present the best possible application.
* Learn what works and what doesn't.
Register at: www.bus.umich.edu/admissions/mba/forumsrecetions/rosspreviewdays.htm

Monday, November 2
4:00-5:00 pm
Ross School of Business
Room R2210


0

6- Friday, October 30, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.comr
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
forrent
060
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
441 HAMILTON! 6 bdrm, study &
3 bathrooms Sept 10 12 mo. lease.
$3400/mo. includes ldry., furn.,
A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
!? BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
* NOW LEASING FOR 2010
www.carlsoproperties.com
734-332-6000.
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NOW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could be yours - secure your
apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free prkig. (248) 910-2286.
Studio & 1
t bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qiet & cSor-. rse-7ne bxfr m tCrx^
734-663-1530
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com

15 DIFFERENT
LOCA TIONS F
CHOOSE FROM EFICIEN-
CIES, ,2, AND 3 lED-
ROOMS,61-LEVELS AND
TRI-EVELS TOO'
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Beniamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
920 Dewey Ave,
Full 2urn
/ B isom e/in attic & basement
Vasty manaement
1341668-1100
wwwRvarsltymaoageltlont2cenl
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available tool All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
cludeutilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
Fall 2010
5 Bedroom / finished basement
Varsity Managemeut1
41668-11SS 001.1
ANN ARBOR
Student lousing Fair
Mon, Nov. 2nd Alum Ctr
-4PM Win $100 GC at
www.midigs.com
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Washs-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. 17341 996-1991.

Univerity
Tower
Voted "Best
Apartments"
in 2009!
Reserve your fully-
furnished room, studio,
1,2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 2010/2011.
Save your style!
Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 Hr. Lobby Attendant
Secure-Entry Building
Central U-M Campus
FREE Food & More!
*Full 2 bedroom rental
in October 2009
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-71-2680
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm. 341 E. Jefferson-8
bdrm. 734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.IRPAA.com 996-4992.
1029 Vaughn St.
6 bdrm house,Avail. May 2010
Copi Properties
(734) 663-5609
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to 20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FALL 2010. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkgspaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
k s
REALTY
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)

716 Arch
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
737 Packard
810 Sybil
7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
325 E. Jefferson
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn
12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
,nsd/opze>ease
For details Call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

REALTY
Visit us atthe
Student Housing Fair
November 2" from 1-4pm
Alumni Association Center
200 Fletcher Hall
Now Leasing for
2010-2011
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 bedrooms
nexeo P zza t/ae
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water ecl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkgino pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3600
4 Bed. 505 Souer Ct. $2340
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPOIDEINCO
( $4)996-191
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the cornerof Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
ON ARBORETUM NEAR midtown.
H istoric Frank Lloyd Wright-type, hse:
4 bdrms, 2.5 baths, 734-662-7924.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
539 Packard Rd.
Fall 2010
Newly-remodeled 5-bedroom, hardwood
Varsity maagmnt
114168-100
W VaIrst IaIagemnIILCsII

STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.
('1EMidiigan DailiM
PRESENTS THE
Online C'lasfied
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

wwW.varsitymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
625 Church St.
1734) 668-1100
00foerva1:11
1-5 bdrms & houses
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc@comcast.net
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 1mg hdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc(7acomcust.net

BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Cale, PhyOe, Trig. Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
w5-w25 per survey.
www.etPaidToThink.com

I
I
6

I T I
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2.3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme(gobluehouses.com.
08
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! 300 /day poten-
tal No ep .nec training provided.

t i Ckets & tra vel
100
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties? Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations

0


2
1
t
1i
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
4
4'

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 College hazing 35 Cat, south oftthe 46 Chewed (out)
1 Tubular period border 47... buco
chocolate snack 41940s Giants 36 Santa Monica-to- 49 Golden Horde
5 Like secret rituals manager Mel Jacksonville rte. member
1 Tube top 5 When many 37 Picketing 53 Military service
4 Support, ina shops open 38 19th Greek letter designation
criminal way 6 Fixed 39 Frying sound 54 New York
5 Headgear on 7 Conspiracy 42 Aptly named mod cardinal
some runways 8 Exist model 56 Pale
16 Actor Vigoda 9 Dundee denial 43 Pearl harborer 57 "_ seen
7 Drones losing 10 Slalom curve 44 Raptor's enough!"
their pep? 11 Elite training grabbers 58 Actress Carrere
9 a.k.a., in squads 45 Pure 59 Tease
o rpate-speak 12 "Who's on First?" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
0 Kenansmmedy straight man
partner 13"Great!" EQO S M ONC HA C A USE
?Baltccpital 18 Nest egg S H O C Y R I L O R T H O
2 r-Z:high- mponents,for S I N K C L O G S R A N I N
performance shea OLA S OW
Camaro 22 Startof a rule
3 Train former that keeps you A I R S A C E R
ato t Impelling K A H U N A T A R H E E L S
ndo without? weirdly? LEAS S H E L ERAS E
8 More than 24 Ballpark figure I T S S H O E B O X D A N
forandeur 25 Mosque VIP E N ACT O M A R NET S
1 Grand ubbl 26 Madcap G A S P U M P S SPARS E
31Bado uby27"'This is for HOMEFOOT
2 Openaapeworms e ODO MBRAHE T
3 Thefirst 28 Me cees rival O 131 A H E T A H O E
indicationthat Mana TOTAL SALT F L A T S
hadunels 32 Brain and spinal O H A R E A D I E U D H S
manylastnight? cord:Abbr. E ST E S P I X E L J O E
0 Tongue and liver 34 Bird house xwordeditor@aol.com 10/29/09
11 Genti

For Saturday, Oct. 31, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
This is a great day for little trick-or-
treaters. You will enjoy good times with
friends, and particularly, in group situa-
tions.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
This is a feel-good day. You have a
warm feeling in your tummy. Whether
you're involved in meetings, confer-
ences and groups or working alone, you
will feel surprisingly content with your-
self today.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
All kinds of group dynamics -meet-
ings, conferences, conventions, classes,
and casual get-togethers - will be very
positive today. You can learn something
new from others that will benefit you
later.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Some aspect of your private life is
suddenly made public today. For what-
ever reason, you are out there with your
colors flying! Enjoy your good press.
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
Be on the lookout for opportunities to
travel, take courses or get further educa-
tion. This is also a great day to schmooze
with people from different countries and
other backgrounds.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You can benefit from the wealth of
others today. Gifts and favors can come
your way! Keep your pockets open.
"Trick or treat!"
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Today the Moon is opposite your sign,
so you will have to go more than
halfway when dealing with others.
However, you'll enjoy this because peo-

ple are upbeat and friendly!
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Group situations on the job will bene-
fit you today. You might learn something
new. Explore new information or prod-
ucts from other countries.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Romance, love affairs, sports, vaca-
tions and playful activities with children
will be particularly upbeat and fun
today! This is a lovely Halloween day
for kids.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Family gatherings will please you
today. Entertain at home. Any kind of
group situation will bring a smile to your
face and boost the congeniality of your
family.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
It's easy to be positive and upbeat
today! Expect to meet new people from
different backgrounds today. It's a great
.day for sales, marketing, teaching, acting
and driving.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Business and commerce are favored
today. You might get a better job or fig-
ure out how to earn more money. This is
also a good day for shopping.
YOU BORN TODAY You're a perfec-
tionist. You have high standards, and.
you're observant. You'll goto enormous
lengths to get small details correct. You
approach life with great intensity. In fact,
sleuthing and detective work come natu-
rally to you. You're also very caring
about others. What you have learned this
year can help you prepare for next year,
which might be one of the most power-
ful years of your life!
Birthdate of: Muriel Duckworth, paci-
fist/activist; Peter Jackson, movie direc-
tor; Ali Farka Tourd, guitarist.

6
0

C 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

I
0

molecules 1 2
42 As yea like it
45 Lydian king 14
known for his T7
wealth
48 Earp in a stage 20
show?
50 Man or Mull
51 Small batteries
52 Shad delicacy an at
55 Pontiac muscle 31
car
56 Skater Katarina 33
enjoying a
Camel?
60 Brant, e.g.: Abbr.
61 Do the Wright at a
thing? 30
62 Swedish furniture
chain 5t
63 Sentence units:
Abbr. s
64 Approached
65One with a list 60
63
DOWN
1 Peddle IBYDa
2 Theater award 1c)2009

? 3 4 5 6 T 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 16
18 19
21 22
0 23 24 25 2$ 27
32
34 a35 38 37 a38 a39
13 44 45 4$ 47
51 52 s53 54
61 5 62
STrbne Media Services, Inc.1/3/9

Deadline for line ads is11:30am one business day prior to publication
Rates: $4 30 per line for the first issueand $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contact our stafftfor details
" Students may receive a 20% discountwhen ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
 We accept visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover; cash or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one ofour Account Executives

a


I I

1

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Friday, October 30, 2009 - 7

MARK RALSTON/AP
A policeman removes crime scene tape from the entrance to the underground car park at the Adat Yeshurun Sephardic Congregation where two Jewish men were shot and
injured, in Los Angeles on October 29, 2009. The two men were wounded at the Los Angeles synagogue in what police said was being investigated asa possible hate crime.
Police seek shooter who wounded
two worshippers at LA synagogue

Gunman opened fire
just before morning
services yesterday
LOS ANGELES (AP) - A gun-
man escaped after wounding two
men in the parking garage of a
Los Angeles synagogue yesterday,
frightening worshippers who heard
gunshots and screams before the
bleeding victims stumbled in dur-
ing morning services.
Police briefly held a teenager
Who matched a vague description
of the attacker. But they released
the 17-year-old a short time later
and continued their hunt for the
assailant.
Mori Ben-Nissan, 38, and Allen
Lasry, 53, were shot in the legs in
the parking garage underneath the
Adat Yeshurun Valley Sephardic
nagogue in North Hol-
lywood, in the San Fernando Valley.
They arrived in separate cars for
the morning service shlrtly before
130 aTmi nd were in a stairwell"
LAWSUIT
From Page 1
a button on a copier in the manner
described is of no significance,"
Cohn wrote in the judgment.
"Excel's assertion that it has no
inventory and simply offers copy-
ing services is not correct - it has
an inventory oftopyrighted materi-
als given to it by professors, some of
whom even state in their course syl-
labi that the material is available for
'purchase' at Excel."
Miller wrote in an e-mail that he
MARIJUANA
From Page 1
re-evaluation of the federal govern-
ment's use ofresources.
Michigan became the 13th state
to legalize marijuana for medici-
nal purposes when 63 percent of its
residents voted to pass Proposal 1
in November 2008. The legislative
initiative, which went into effect in
April of this year, allows Michigan
residents to use marijuana to treat
chronic illnesses and debilitating
diseases, but does not identify a
way for both patients and caregiv-
ers to legally obtain the drug.
Last week's change to federal reg-
ulations offered some encourage-
ment for medical marijuana patients
and their supporters, according to
Dennis Hayes, an Ann Arbor crimi-
nal defense attorney and co-founder
of the Ann Arbor Medical Marijua-
na Patient Collective.
Hayes said the move will lead to
greater tolerance and acceptance
of the drug's use in medicine and it
could help erode the drug's stigma.
"Once people are aware this is
not a boogeyman drug like they've
tried to make it for 50 years, the
tolerance of it goes up," Hayes said.
"Once they know somebody who's
a medical marijuana patient, who
receives some comfort from the
chemotherapy or the HIV, or any
of the other debilitating conditions
that qualify with the law, people
will be more informed."
"The more informed you are, the
more likely you are to figure out
* that the government's been lying to
us for 50 fucking years," he added.
Oneofthemostimportanteffects

of this new federal policy is the
peace of mind it will give medical
marijuana patients and caregivers,
said Paul Stanford, who started the
Hemp and Cannabis Foundation.

leading up to the synagogue sanc-
tuary when a gunman shot them
several times. The gunman then
fled on foot.
Police immediately beefed up
patrols of Jewish communities as
part of a citywide alert before say-
ing the attack appeared to be iso-
lated. Even as investigators tried to
find a motive, Mayor Antonio Vil-
laraigosa and other officials moved
to calm fears that the attack was
part of any organized anti-Semitic
violence.
"We certainly recognize the loca-
tion and we're sensitive to that,"
Deputy Police Chief Michel Moore
said. "But we do not know that this
was a hate crime at all."
The victims, who were hospital-
ized in good condition, told police
the attacker did not speak or take
anything from them.
One worshipper, Yehuda Oz, said
he and about 14 others were praying
in the temple when they heard four
gunshots and screams from the
parking area. Two men stumbled
into the temple, Oz said, atidpeople
would not comment on the court's
decision without speaking to his
attorney for fear of damaging his
legal case. But he was willing to
share his thoughts on the fair use
clause of the law.
"As I read it, the fair use exemp-
tion to copyright law was originally
written to promote the general wel-
fare through the advancement of
science and learning," Miller wrote
in the e-mail. "These lofty and ben-
eficial goals cannot be achieved if
students, professors, and research-
ers are denied convenient mecha-
nisms for obtaining their copies."
One of the foundation's medical
clinics, which was established in
Southfield, Mich. after the proposal
was passed, helps patients assess
their medical marijuana needs.
"They can sleep a lot easier
knowing that the federal govern-
ment isn't going to investigate or
prosecute as long as they're in com-
pliance with the Michigan medi-
cal marijuana law," Stanford said.
"That's a large relief for medical
marijuana patients."
In states like California, where
medical marijuana is legalized and
dispensaries - or marijuana stores -
are allowed in Los Angeles County,
more people have been prosecuted
for usingthe drug for medicinal pur-
poses because of federal government
intervention, according to Hayes.
Cases in which patients or care-
givers possess more than 100 mari-
juana plants or 100 pounds of the
drug are referred to the federal
government from the local or state
police, Hayes said.
But these federal cases have
not been as prevalent in Michigan
since the law just came into effect
six months ago, Hayes said, though
there have been cases of state law
violations.
Since the medical marijuana
law in Michigan is new, state law
enforcement officials have not yet
compiled information on the num-
ber ofviolations of state and federal
medical marijuana laws, according
to Melody Kindraka, spokeswoman
for the Michigan State Police.
The Ann Arbor Medical Mari-
juana Patient Collective has seen
a surge in the number of people
attending meetings in recent
months, a sign of the recent rising

support for medical marijuana,
Hayes said.
"The wave is building," Hayes
said. "Little ripples may be a little
wave by the end of the year, maybe
$3

rushed to stop their bleeding.
No one in the temple saw the
attacker, he said.
"Maybe it was crazy person," Oz
told the Los Angeles Times. "Maybe
he was drugged up. Maybe it was a
Jew. We don't know."
Initial security camera footage
from the synagogue shows the sus-
pect but not the shooting, and the
quality is too poor for investigators
to identify the man, Cmdr. Jorge
Villegas said, but detectives later
found more security cameras at
the synagogue and were reviewing
those tapes.
Detective Steve Castro said a
slew of possible motives was being
considered, including attempted
robbery or a personal business dis-
pute.
The attack occurred 10 miles
from a Jewish community center
where white supremacist Buford
Furrow wounded three children,
a teenager and an adult, in 1999.
Furrow later killed a Filipino let-
ter carrier on another street, and
is serving a life sentence without
Miller told The Michigan Daily
in 2007 that the most expensive
coursepacks at Excel cost between
$70 and $80, while other stores
offer similar coursepacks for up to
double that.
Associate History Prof. Mat-
thew Countryman is one of many
faculty members who sends his
coursepacks to Excel.
"I use Excel because I believe it
provides excellent service to stu-
dents and I like supporting locally-
owned businesses," Countryman
said.
Countryman added that he had
a bigger wave next year."
Despite this step by the federal
governmentto take a backseat in the
prosecution of the medical use of the
drug, Hayes said the inconsistencies
in Michigan's law still remain a big
hurdle for many medical marijuana
patients and caregivers.
"In Michigan, once you get a reg-
istration card, the first thing you
have to do as a patient is break the
federal lawtogetyour plant," Hayes
said. "And it's functionally unable
to allow the state to do something
that is a violation of the federal law,
so you're always going to have this
psychological hurdle for the local
units of government."
James McCurtis, spokesman for
the Michigan Department of Com-
munity Health, said the new fed-
eral guidelines will not affect how
the state regulates usage and care
of medicinal marijuana.
McCurtis said as long as patients
and caregivers are still comply-
ing with state law, there will be no
surge in state prosecutions or regu-
lation due to the federal changes.
"Our role will still be the same,"
McCurtis said. "The law is still
going to be the same here, and what
that federal guideline basically says
is as long as people follow the state
law, the federal government is not
going to hassle them, bother them,
that sort of thing. So the state law
is going to remain intact, it's not
changing any time soon."
As of last week, the Michigan
Department of Community Health
has received 8,093 applications for
medical marijuana cards, 6,987 of
which were issued. Of these, 4,956
cards were given to patients and
2,031 were given to caregivers.
McCurtis said because the state

law is not changing, prosecutions
in the state will not become more
moderate.
"The state law is going to be what it

chance of parole.
The synagogue is in an area of
long boulevards with commercial
districts, tree-studded blocks of
post-World War II stucco homes
and apartment complexes on the
north side of the Hollywood Hills.
It has the second-largest concentra-
tion of Jews in the city, said Rabbi
Abraham Cooper of the Simon
Wiesenthal Center, a Jewish rights
group with more than 400,000
members in the United States.
About 6,000 Jews live within
walking distance of the synagogue,
Cooper said. The Sephardic syna-
gogue attracts primarily Jews from
Morocco, Yemen, Israelis, some
Persians.
Cooper said he was immediately
curious about the time and loca-
tion of the shooting: It happened
very early, and the synagogue is not
on a busy thoroughfare. He said if
the assailant had been casing the
synagogue, he would have known
that 10 to 30 men show up there for
a morning service every weekday
before work.
no knowledge of the lawsuit and
that he would continue to send his
coursepacks to Excel, regardless.
The parties are currently
involved in settlement talks. Strong
said the publishers are seekingmon-
etary compensation from Excel. He
would not discuss specific amounts
that the publishers are asking for, as
the discussions are ongoing.
"We will seek some damages
as the law entitles us to because
the publishers have lost quite a bit
of money over the years from his
(Miller's) failure to pay copyright,"
he said.
is," McCurtis said. "And if you break
the law, then you're subject to arrest
and other type of prosecution, and if
you follow the law, you should be fine.
And I think that's exactly what the
federal guidelines are saying, too."
LSA junior Francesca Bardinelli,
executive director of the Univer-
sity's chapter of Students for Sen-
sible Drug Policy, said the new
guidelines represent an important
step by the Obama administration
in giving states more rights regard-
ing drug laws and will propel other
states to move forward with medi-
cal marijuana legalization.
"It's really great to see that the
federal government is leaving it up
to states' plans," Bardinelli said.
"(It) gives more freedom to other
states who are contemplating medi-
cal marijuana policy. So it's a great
step in that sense."
While the policy is an important
step in the medical marijuana cru-
sade, because it's not completely
fool-proof, the results of the change
remain to be seen, Andrew Kent,
president of the University's chap-
ter of the National Organization
of the Reform of Marijuana Laws,
wrote in an e-mail interview.
"Their position still gives the
government leeway to interfere on
a case-by-case basis," wrote Kent,
an LSA senior. "It remains to be
seen if the government will follow
their own guidelines."
Despite a similar policy change
announced several months ago,
federal government officials failed
to respect their own declarations,
accordingto Kent.
"(U.S. Attorney General) Eric
Holder initially announced an end
to federal raids on medical mari-

juana patients months ago, but the
DEA continued to raid patients and
dispensaries," Kent wrote. "With
the guidelines in writing hopefully
the policy will be more respected."

Official says that
despite Dingell's
efforts, office
could still be cut
From Page 1 Students like LSA senior Qian
Wang, who regularly sends letters
of communications for the Detroit and packages using the South Uni-
district of the U.S. Postal Service. versity post office, are excited to
The South University location know the location will remain open
will remain on the list until the due to its comparatively low costs.
commission reviews it in the next "At FedEx and UPS, the price
few weeks, Moore said. He added is much higher than the postal
that the location was one of 11 in office," Wang said. "If this place
the Detroit district originally put closed, I don't know - I have no
on the list due to a reduction in idea if there's another place on the
mail volume. campus that can provide this ser-
This decrease in mail volume vice."
has been a nationwide trend, with Other students like Nursing
the U.S. Postal Service processing senior Irene Casillas, said she is
only 170 billion pieces of mail this happy to hear the South Univer-
year, a decrease of about 40 bil- sity post office will remain open
lion pieces from 2007, according due to its ideal location.
to Moore. "I'm glad because it's so much
"We're looking to trim costs, more convenient than driving to
be more efficient and maximize Stadium (Boulevard) and some
our floor space," he said. "So that's people don't even have a car on
why those locations are looking to campus," Casillas said. "It's very
he consolidated." convenient."
better care at a better price, the
HEALTH CARE researchers argue, tackling both
From Page 1 the health and financial concerns
within the health care reform
make your hair grow back," Mar- debate.
tin said. "We're in a situation now
V-BID was established in where costs are going to continue
2005 by University faculty mem- to escalate if we don't do some-
bers Dean Smith, Allison Rosen, thing," Martin said. "No matter
Michael Chernew and Fendrick, what happens, we want there to
who came together to combine be some clinical nuance so that
their clinical and economic exper- health is not sacrificed, so that we
tises. They set out to apply their enable people to still get the high
skills to produce leading research value services they deserve - put-
on the health and economic out- ting health back into health care
comes of innovative insurance reform."
designs. Fendrick explained that
After publishing many articles although the debate has focused
in academic peer-review jour- almost exclusively on the eco-
nals, the researchers, under the nomic impact of the health care
guidance of the School of Public system, Obama's track record in
Health's Director of Government the reform process shows that
Relations Jennifer Martin - who his main concern was health care
spent much of her career in Wash- improvement.
ington, D.C. working on Capitol Although his actions in the
Hill and in theWhite House - debate have strayed from that goal
were able to share their findings and demonstrated more concern
with national newspapers and, for cost, Fendrick said there is
most recently, on the Senate floor. hope that he will ultimately help
"We brought this to the Michi- redirect the discussion.
gan Congressional Delegation and "The focus of the health care
others so that as this idea became conversation is on money," Fen-
better known it would be known drick said. "Everyone is focused
as a University of Michigan idea," on the deficit and the budget and
Martin said. "The idea was that the cost. What we're trying to do
our Michigan constituents and is remind people why we have
representatives would say 'this is health care in the first place."
an idea out of my state.'" "Reducing healthcare spending
Through their research, Fen- should not be the exclusive objec-
drick, an associate professor of tive of health care reform efforts,"
health management and policy, he later wrote in an e-mail. "We
and his colleagues determined must not forgetthat the goal of the
that reducing patients' co-pay- health care system is to improve
ments increases their medication health, not save money."
adherence. Because legislators are still
Results from one of their stud- debating health care reform bills
ies yielded a 7- to 14-percent in the House and Senate and
reduction in non-adherence - amendments to legislation can be
meaning that with lower prices made, several specifics are still
on co-payments, more people will unknown about how the logistics
actually get the drugs they need. of V-BID would get carried out if
The underlying principle ofval- the bills are passed in a different
ue-based insurance is that people form.
will buy more of the health ser- However, Fendrick said the

vices that they need. issue is further complicated by
"You give somebody their asth- language and enforcement differ-
ma drugs, you keep them out of ences between the two bills.
the ER," Fendrick said. "It's pretty Introduced by Sens. Kay Bailey
intuitive." Hutchison (R-Texas) and Debbie
Pricing in the current system Stabenow (D-Mich.), U.S. Senate
prevents patients from making Bill 1040 "actually makes V-BID
decisions that have their best concepts legal - so no one can
health interests in mind. challenge it," Fendrick said.
"We're not providing any kind "In the House bill it says that
of structural incentive for high- every health plan can do it," he
value health services," Martin added.
said. "It's aboutcgetting the patient If the national legislation pass-
to access the care they need. The es, insurers will have the option of
more you increase the co-pays, the creating a pricing plan and offer-
less they buy the stuff they need." ing a quality of service tailored to
In order to provide patients V-BID principles.
with more of the care that benefits "There is really no one V-BID
them the most, V-BID researchers intervention," Fendrick said. "It
are working to help bridge the gap really comes down to how much
between patients and health care you're willing to spend on it and
providers. how much you're willing to do."
"We view V-BID as a demand- Although a value-based insur-
side initiative," Fendrick said. "If ance design would give insur-
doctors continue to make a ton ers more leeway to determine
of money by doing the low-value a pricing plan that meets their
stuff, they're not goingto care. We financial needs, its setup would
need to bring together the supply still offer a better value to the
and demand side." policyholders.
Through a value-based insur- "We guarantee more health at
ance design, patients can get any price point," Fendrick said.
WRITE FOR THE
DAILY'S NEWS
SECTION.
Send an e-mail to
smilovitz@michigandaily.com


a

8 - Friday, October 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Williams and Charest to
split snaps vs. Michigan

By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
As the Wolverines continue
their experiment to determine the
ideal Tate Forcier:Denard Robin-
son ratio, Michigan football fans
have become well aware of the
pros and cons of a
two-quarterback
rotation. Michigan
They've seen at Illinois
the highs and the
lows - hoping for Machun .
Michigan 5-3;
plays like Robin- Illinois1-6
son's jaw-drop-
ping impromptu en: 
sprint to the end d
zone against Where:
Western Michi- Memorial
gan and cring-S
ing when they TV:ESPN
see plays like his Live Tweets:
game-clinching rmichdai-
interception at
Iowa or his two-
turnover performance against
Penn State.
But through it all, the Wolver-
Ines have come to accept the good
and the bad, as Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez has committed to
playingboth his freshmen quarter-
backs since two-a-days in August.
Tomorrow at 3:30 p.m., the Wol-
verines (5-3 overall, 1-3 Big Ten)
will face an Illinois team that will
employ a two-quarterback rota-
tion. But unlike Michigan, the
Fighting Illini are cycling through
field generals out of desperation.
Senior Isiah "Juice" Williams
will split time against Michigan
with redshirt freshman Jacob
Charest, who brings more of a tra-
ditional pocket-passing attack to
the Illinois attack.
"Everybody says they don't
want to be a two-quarterback sys-
tem, and I'd be another one to say
that," Illinois coach Ron Zook said
during his weekly Tuesday press
conference. "But a lot of people do
it and a lot of people have success
with it. I think the thing we're try-

last long, going just 2-of-8 for 31
yards before he was relieved by
Williams.
The problem may have been that
Williams and McGee, who are both
dual-threat quarterbacks,just play
too similarly to give the Illinois
offense a discernible advantage.
"With Eddie and Juice there
wasn't a lot of game planning and
not a lot of difference," Zook said.
"When you game plan against
Juice and against(Chares), there's
a little bit of difference. Now you
actually are dealing with a little
different animal."
Zook decided to give Charest his
first-ever game action last week in
the Illini's 24-14 loss to Purdue.
Charest went 4-of-8 for 52 yards
against the Boilermakers, and
Zook said he was "very pleased"
with the former three-star recruit
who threw for almost 8,000 yards
in high school.
"It's one thing going into a game
plan knowing you're going to
play in the beginning of the year
when everybody's optimistic, and
another going into a game under
those kinds of circumstances and
pressure and needing to win,"
Zook said of Charest. "I was very
impressed with him. I thought he
did a good job ... and I think he can
give us some help."
While Zook wants to be sup-
portive of his senior quarterback,
his team is still looking for its first
Big Ten victory - and its first win
against Football Bowl Subdivision
competition, for that matter.
And so in an attempt to salvage
their disaster of a season, the Illini's
quarterback carousel will continue.
"They're both going to be out
there, and I think Juice under-
stands that," Zook said. "I'm not
trying to dodge the question or
anything like that. They are both
going to play and as I said, Jacob
gave us some things that I'm excit-
ed about. You see that ball come
off his hand quick and he stuck it
in there well."

cLIF REEDER/Daily
Senior Juice Williams shredded Michigan's 'D'last season, but has struggled this year.

ing to do, just like everyone else,
is to do the thing that's best for us
and what gives us the best oppor-
tunity to win."
Coming intothe 2009 campaign,
no one would have questioned Wil-
liams's spot atop the Illini's depth
chart. A starter since his fresh-
man season, Williams led the Big
Ten in total offense in 2008 while
compiling almost 4,000 combined
yards on the ground and through
the air. Of course, arguably his
best game last year came against
Michigan, when he racked up 431
yards of total offense, the highest
individual offensive output in Big
House history.
But it's been a tough year for one
of the Big Ten's mostdynamic play-
ers. His 107.51 passer rating ranks

99th in the nation. That's 27 spots
below Forcier, whose struggles as
of late have been well documented,
and 14 spots behind Miami (Ohio)
quarterback Zac Dysert, whose
RedHawks are winless through
eight games.
"I had a longtalk with Juice yes-
terday," Zook said. "It never really
came up. Juice wants to win. He's
pulling his hair out. The biggest
thing we have to do with Juice is
that everybody's pounding on him
and he has to somehow separate
that stuff. He's done it before. It's
a confidence issue."
Illinois (1-6, 0-5) has been
searching for other alternatives.
Williams was benched for backup
quarterback Eddie McGee against
Michigan State, but McGee didn't

Blue faces physical test up North

By NICK SPAR checking team, and they're going
Daily Sports Writer to play at a high (competitive) level
every shift the whole weekend,"
The Michigan hockey team Michigan coach Red Berenson
begins its CCHA season tonight, said.
and its area of The attributes Berenson listed
focus heading Michigan at are the same labels he gave No.
into this week- 16 Alaska-Fairbanks and Niagara
end's series Lake before games against those teams
against Lake Superior earlier this month.
Superior State is SaMichigan (2-2-0) didn't fare
strikingly famil- well against either team, losing to
iar. Matchup: the Nanooks in its season opener
The Lakers Michigan 2-2; and struggling offensively after a
plays host to the Lake State 4-1 quick start in a win over the Pur-
fifth-ranked Wol- When: Friday ple Eagles.
verines in Sault 7:05 PM The fact that the Lakers (4-1-0)
Ste. Marie. Lake Where: Taffy have a similar defensive style to
Superior State's Abel Arena Alaska and Niagara, compounded
strengths are its Radio: with the Wolverines' inconsistent
physical play and WTKA-Ann offense, could be a cause for con-
defense - two Arbor (AM cern. But Michigan came out of its
facets that will 1050) shell in its last game - a loss at No.
make it easier to 4 Boston University - by tallying
keep the already- Live Blog: two goals and 21 shots in the final
struggling Mich- chigandiy. period.
igan off om/blogs!
igan offense the game "We've had a little trouble with
stagnant. the Lakers in the past. I remember
"Lake State is last year, we didn't have our best
a blue-collar, hard-working, hard- weekend against them," sopho-

more defenseman Brandon Burlon
said. "If we just build off the game
we had in Boston - especially the
third period - I think we'll come
out with two wins."
Michigan found an offensive
spark in its 21-shot third peri-
od against the Terriers when a
series of penalties and ejections
led to line changes that lasted the
remainder of the frame.
Because of the success with dif-
ferent lines and because of players
missing practice this week due-to
illness, Berenson hadn't deter-
mined his forward lines before
the team left for Sault Ste. Marie
Thursday.
One of those players is juniorfor-
ward Louie Caporusso, who didn't
practice Tuesday or Wednesday,
but skated Thursday. A healthy
and effective Caporusso would
drastically improve the team's
offensive woes. He was the team's
leading goal-scorer last year and a
Hobey Baker finalist, but has yet to
register a point in four games this
season.u
Lake Superior State's clamp-

down defense will come as no sur-
prise to Caporusso and Michigan.
Berenson knows what type of Lak-
ers team to expect.
"I've played them a lot and seen
them a lot," Berenson said. "And
their team doesn't change a lot.
It's amazing that whoever wears
their uniforms plays the same way.
That's their creed ... the culture of
their program."
The Lakers wrap up a six-game
home stand with this weekend's
series against the Wolverines.
They had a four-game winning
streak snapped against Ohio State
last Saturday in a weekend split.
The stingy defense hasn't been the
team's only asset. Lake Superior
State also boasts the highest power
play percentage in the CCHA at
30.8 percent.
The power play has helped the
Lakers to a fast start, but their
extra-man attack has been anoth-
er weak point for Michigan.
The Wolverines ,haven't scored
on its last 10 power plays, dating
back to the win over Niagara on
Oct. 22.

cLIF REEDER/Daily
Senior DeShawn Sims talked at Media Day about growing to love basketball.
Sims focused
on senior year
By GJON JUNCAJ an excellent chance this season
Daily Sports Writer to increase his professional pros-
pects after electingnotto enterthe
ROSEMONT, IlL. - Entering NBA Draft last spring. Although
the twilight of his college bas- Sims' passion for the sport was an
ketball career, DeShawn Sims acquired taste, it doesn't make the
already feels a sense of nostalgia, bond any less genuine.
reminiscing about a time when his "It's sort of like a girl that you
Michigan playing days were still don't like all the way," Sims said.
in front of him. "Everything wasn't right about
Listening to the senior Michi- it, or about her. But eventually,
gan forward talk at yesterday's through time, you get to learn
Big Ten Basket- more about her. You get to know
ball Media Day, NOTEBOOK how instrumental she'd be in your
you would think life, and you start to love her. Until
Sims was applying for Social Secu- you (actually) fall in love, and I fell
rity checks rather than gearing in love with basketball."
up for the upcoming season and, HARRIS' HAMSTRING: Michi-
eventually, the 2010 NBA Draft. gan coach John Beilein said junior
"I just get this extra conscious- small forward Manny, Harris
ness that I'm too old," the 21-year- would practice Thursday evening
old Sims said. "A lot of things I do, after missing the previous two
I think 'You're too old.' And it hits sessions with a hamstring injury.
when you realize (it). I'll be half- Harris suffered the injury in pre-
way a step in the door: 'You're too season conditioning and re-aggra-
old. You've got to turn around."' vated it during Michigan Madness
Though Sims jokes about how on Oct.16.
his accelerated maturity has put "I still don't think he'll be run-
him in an awkward place on a ning sprints, but he'll be sprinting
social level, his figurative growth in our scrimmages and our full-
spurt brought a much-needed sigh court play," Beilein said. "I'll hold
of relief to the Michigan coaching him out a little bit, but pretty soon,
staff this past March. we have to test it right now.
Sims said his in-game focus "We have to be very careful we
became as sharp as ever during the don't push too much right now, but
team's last five games prior to the he has to get some normalcy to it,
NCAA Tournament. The Detroit to get into shape."
native averaged 22.4 points on The Wolverines' exhibition
57.3-percent shooting during that opener is Nov. 6 against Wayne
stretch to lead the Wolverines to State.
their first tournament berth in 11 SPARTANSTABBED FIRST: The
years. media picked last season's confer-
"I had gotten this confidence ence champion and NCAA finalist
about my ability that's been so Michigan State to win the Big Ten
great for me, it just made my game for a second straight season. The
excel four or five more notches," Spartans bring back three start-
Sims said. ers from last year's team, led by
Sims has admitted that he has the reigning conference Player of
had problems in the past with his the Year, junior point guard Kalin
focus, since his mind would often Lucas. The media also selected
wander to matters in his personal Lucas as its conference Preseason
life during games. Sims said it's a Player of the Year yesterday.
habit he has struggled to break Purdue and Ohio State were
since childhood. picked to finish second and third,
"I didn't grow up loving (bas- respectively. Only the top three
ketball)," Sims said. "I wasn't one teams are released to the public.
of those kids that played in all Michigan State coach Tom Izzo
the leagues (or) had their parents said this year's Big Ten is the best
pushing them.... I just played it for in ten years, saying eight to 10
recreation, so I had to grow to love teams have a legitimate shot at
it." winningthe league.
Sims's attempts to ignore pri- NOTES: The Wolverines are
vate distractions were even more ranked No. 15 in both the Associ-
important when a late-season loss ated Press and ESPN/USATODAY
at Iowa put Michigan's tourna- Coaches polls, which is Michigan's
ment hopes in jeopardy. firstcpreseason ranking in 12 years.
"I did a great job of blocking ... The preseason All-Big Ten first
that out towards the end (of last team was also released yesterday.
season), and it became like exer- The five selections were Lucas,
cise," Sims said. "Nothing I have Harris, Ohio Stateswigman Evan
to think about." Turner, Penn State junior guard
Now one of the elite post play- Talor Battle and Purdue junior
ers in the conference, Sims has forward Robbie Hummel.
The Daily football beat will have

your back while you're at Night-
mare on Elm St. Check michigan-
daily.com for a breakdown and staff
picks, and follow @michdailysports
for Tweets from Champaign.

With more offense, M could contend in Big Ten

All four teams were emotionless.
Over the last 10 days, the Michi-
gan women's soccer team and
its foes - Wisconsin, Minnesota
and then-No.22 ZA
Indiana - have
walked off the PYZIK
field in silence. No On women's
team was cheering soccer
because it won, yet
no team was disappointed by a loss.
The Wolverines have a knack for
ties. They have played to a stalemate
in five of their last six games, and it's
clear why: the defense is young and
strident, but the offense is aged and
quiet. The defense is composed of
mostly freshmen, and the offense is
mainlyupperclassmen.
In eightofthe last nine games,
Michigan held its adversary to one
tally or less. Likewise, in the same
eightgames, it didn't notch more
than one point. The problem is sim-
ply offensive production.
The Wolverine ballhandlers
looked likethey had a spark on Oct.
23 against the Golden Gophers when
senior midfielder Amy Klippert
showed true ballhandling skills,
juggling past opponents. Butthat
didn't help Michigan much once she

received a red card late in the second
half and had to sit out. With a lack of
scoring and alack of discipline, the
squad is struggling.
"Amy's red card has really hurt
the team," Michigan coach Greg
Ryan said after the team's tie with
the Badgers. "We needed Amy on
the field, and we needed herto be
disciplined enough."
Against Minnesota, the Wolver-
ines' only score was on a disputable
penalty kick rewarded because of an
unintentional hand ball.
In Sunday's game against the
Badgers, junior forward Amanda
Bowery had a great opportunity to
beat a goalie when she ran down-
field with two teammates on the
wing against a defense that looked
fatigued and stunned. Instead of
another offender taking a lane in the
box, Bowery was forced to uncon-
ventionally shoot about 25 yards
away and out of the box.
"We don'thave thatplayer that
will try and break a defense down by
itself," Ryan said. "Then that will set
up something for somebody else."
Michigan also plays too con-
servatively on offense. Ryan has
emphasized thatthis isn't always

intentional but rather, none of the
players are calling for the ball or are
eagerto take the kick. The frustra-
tion is prevalent, but not just for the
low-scoring Wolverine front line.
The defense has also showed
signs of irritation. Redshirt fresh-
man Haley Kopmeyer served her
fifth shutout of the season on Sunday
against Wisconsin, to tie the Michi-
gan rookie shutoutrecord, but three
of those have ended in 0-0 ties.
"I definitely would like to puta
few more in the back of the net,"
Kopmeyer said. "We are working
towards that. Hopefully next game,
we can stick a couple inthere."
Bowery played a few games as
defender, but was most recently
started on the other side of the ball.
In the back line, Ryan started fresh-
man Alyssa Engstrom. Against Min-
nesota, she came in late and played
for 65 minutes, rousingthe crowd
after winningmultiple one-on-ones
against the Golden Gophers.
"Alyssa is a really, really good
defender," Ryan said. "She is young,
but she has learned how to become a
good, intelligent college defender."
Engstrom and Kopmeyer are
doing their job. They are not let-

ting opponents score often, and the
limited times they do, it'sjustbeen
one point. If the team wants to win
games, it's time for Michigan to
push theball and to establish plays.
To fix the problem, the team
needs strikers. It must recruit play-
ers who will take initiative on the
field and take advantage of the
team's ability to impressively stun
opponents on defense. The wins will
come to Ryan and Michigan as long
as nextyear's roster has some more
talented forwards on it.
The team's problem can easily
be summed up after its recent 0-0
stalemate against the Hoosiers.
"I can't remember them hav-
ing anygreat chances in front of
our net," Ryan said after the loss to
Indiana. "But I can remember alot
of great chances in frontof their net.
You have to look at who has the bet-
ter chances, and today we had the
better (chances), we just had to put
them away and we didn't."
Those better chances won't
come this year, but the team has the
potential to win the Big Ten and be
a top-ranked program. And that all
relies on improving its roster forthe
2010 season.

0


