I)E 1EIC338 ioljj il

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, April 17, 2009

michig#daily.com


Inside and out,
groups push for
regents
LEO, GEO and Stop dents and concerns aout a possi
 tuition increase next year.
the Hike rally in Members of the Graduate Emplo
ees' Organization and their suppor
Regents' Plaza, speak ers gathered to protest the propos
continuous enrollment policy, whi
at board's meeting is currently under development. T

UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS
Provost
touts new
federal
aid funds
At monthly meeting, regents also
pass construction proposals,
Michigan Review seeks help
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
University Provost Teresa Sullivan told the Board of
Regents at its monthy meeting yesterday that several
key federal initiatives would help students with the
cost of attending the University next year.
The first initiative, the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009, would provide a $2,500 tax
credit on 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 tuition payments
for individuals earning less than
$80,000 or joint filers earning less NOTEBOOK
than $160,000. Sullivan estimated
that more than 22,000 families with students at the
University would qualify for the tax credit.
Sullivan also told the regents that an increase
to the Federal Pell Grant Program would benefit
between 3,200 and 3,300 students at the Univer-
sity's Ann Arbor campus. The announced increase
will raise the maximum Pell Grant to $5,350 - an
increase of $619.
Sullivan said the increase would give the Univer-
sity nearly $2 million in financial aid to reallocate to
other students, as the increased Pell Grants would
mean a smaller contribution from the University to
meet demonstrated financial need of in-state stu-
dents.
However, in an interview after the meeting, Sulli-
van admitted that if tuition is raisedby more than $619
next year, the $2 million would likely not be able to be
reallocated, as it would be needed to help the students
it currently serves.
An increase in work study funding will also help
students, Sullivan said. According to Sullivan's pre-
sentation, the Federal Work Study program will
increase the University's work study funding by
$1.6 million, which will provide an estimated 440
additional student jobs during the 2009-2010 aca-
demic year.
See NOTEBOOK, Page 7

ble
y-
wt-
ed
ch
he

By NICOLE ABER
and KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporters
Lecturers, graduate students,
undergraduates and other members
of the University community gath-
ered in Regents' Plaza prior to yes-
terday's Board of Regents meeting to
voice their concerns about issues at
the University.
The rally was a mix of about 100
University students and lecturers who
spent the afternoon trying to persuade
regents and administrators to address
issues of concern, including allega-
tions of a breach of contract on raises
for lecturers, a proposed continuous
enrollment policy for graduate stu-

policy would require Ph.D. candidates
to remain students at Rackham - and
continue paying tuition - from their
admission through their graduation,
despite breaks they may take or inde-
pendent research they may conduct.
Rackham student Patricia Chen
said the continuous enrollment policy
doesn't make any logical sense and
sets many students at a disadvantage
when paying for their education.
"The continuous enrollment policy
they have is completely unaccept-
able," she said at the rally. "It's going
to end up hurting people already hav-
ing a difficult time - all the people
who are already at the margins hav-
ing a difficult time because they have
families or because they don't have
funding or because they're interna-

ROB MIGRIN/Daily
TOP A mish-mash of LEO, GEO and Stop the Hike supporters rally in Regents' Plaza before the
regeGs meetiog yesterday afternoon. BOTTOM Shano McGirr ofathe Cootinuous Enrollment
Workieg Group speaks ataiost the continuous eorollmenof policy at the Retents meetiot.

tional students."
At the rally, Rackham studentShaun
McGirr, who also serves on the Con-
tinuous Enrollment Working Group,
said the policy will hinder students'
options and diversity at the Universi-

ty. The CEWG is an organization that
has communicated students' concerns
about the continuous enrollment poli-
cy to Rackhato administrators.
"Basically it ends an option at the
See CAMPUS GROUPS, Page 7



ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SERIES, PART 5 OF ;
Our energy future: Nuclear

SOLVING THE ECONOMIC PUZZLE
B- School' profs talk economic solutions

By EMILY ORLEY neering - work that tailors prop-
Daily StaffReporter erties to be more resistant and in
turn improves their behavior.
Nuclear power, known more for Was said many people have
its destructive capabilities than its reservations about the imple-
energy potential, has been a topic mentation of nuclear fission as an
of recent discussion around the alternate energy source because
country as a potential alternative of its radioactive nature. But if he
to foreign oil. And three research- can improve the quality of materi-
ers at the University are among als used to build nuclear reactors,
those spearheading the push for Was said he believes it will become
this alternate, albeit controversial, a more widely accepted resource.
energy source. In a nuclear reaction, the nucle-
Gary Was, director of the us of an atom splits and produces
Michigan Memorial Phoenix free neutrons. These neutrons
Energy Institute and Walter J. then make contact with other
Weber, Jr., professor of Sustain- atoms, repeating the process.
able Energy, Environmental and Each time, increasing amounts of
Earth Systems, have been work- neutrons are released, creating a
ing to improve the materials used chain reaction. This process pro-
in nuclear reactors. duces massive amounts of energy
Nuclear reactors are made of that can be controlled in a nuclear
stainless steel chrome that have reactor.
relatively longfunctional lives,but However, because the energy
Was is working to make further produced is so volatile, there is
advancements in the technology fear that if a nuclear reactor is
to avoid preventable issues like not built correctly, or the materi-
coercion and cracking, which he als are not of high enough quality,
said affect reactors' productivity. some of the hazardous, radioac-
"These are really aggressive tive materials could escape into
environments," Was said, "and the environment.
you have to understand (the reac- The largest nuclear accident of
tor's) behavior in order to tweak this nature in the U.S. occurred
the materials." in 1979 at the Three Mile Island
Was has been focusing his Nuclear Generatingtation in Dau-
research on grain boundary engi- phin County, Pa., where reactor

coolant escaped, releasing radio-
active noble gas into the air.
While the incident at Three
Mile Island has burned a nega-
tive connotation of nuclear energy
into the national zeitgeist, Was
argues that this incident actually
serves to support the argument
for increased research on nuclear
energy.
"To most of the people in the
nuclear field, (Three Mile Island)
was the best example of the safety
of nuclear energy," Was said. "But
the public at large took a long time
to realize that."
Was said that while Three Mile
island was a terrible situation,
there were no major consequenc-
es. The event demonstrated that
even if the system fails, reactors
are efficient enough to contain the
toxins and prevent widespread
harm, he said.
"The safety record that has
been built up is really phenom-
enal," Was said. "It really can't be
approached by any other indus-
try."
While Was praised the safe-
guards that are already in place,
he said his work is to ensure that
there are no accidents like Three
Mile Island in the future.
Prof. William Martin, chair of
See NUCLEAR, Page 7

At event, labor, tax
and financial policy
options discussed
By VANESSA NUNEZ
Daily StaffReporter
Three professors from the Ross
School of Business spoke to an

audience of about 60 people in
the Colloquium room of the Busi-
ness School yesterday afternoon,
addressing the current economic
crisis in three areas: tax policies,
the banking sector and the auto
industry.
Martin Zimmerman, the Ford
Motor Co. clinical professor of
business administration, spoke
about President Barack Obama's

industrial policy and the actions in
the auto industry.
He said there is a major need
for reconstruction of this impor-
tant industry, which contributes
4.5 percent of the nation's gross
domestic product.
"This recession in the auto
industry is truly severe," Zimmer-
man said. "No one in this industry
See POLICY, Page 7

FEASTING ON PHILANTHROPY

Patrons flock to Zingerman's yesterday for an Iron Chef-style sandwich competition, raising money for Peace Neighborhood Center.


WEATHER H 173
TOMOR ROW L LO4

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsyumichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Full transcript of Tate Forcier talking Greg Paulus.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS............
Vol CXIX, No.132 SUDOKU........
02009 The Michigan Daily OPINION........
michiganoily.com

...................2 ARTS........................5
............ 3 CLA SSIFIED S.....................6
...................4 SPORTS .................... . 8

I

i f,


2 - Friday, April 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, April 17, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom ~

- M

MORE ON IN LEFT Fans enoying themselves at the Michigan Wolverines Spring Game at the Big Hnuse, Saturday. (SAM WOLSON/Daily) MIDDLE The
ONLIE \> sign outside nt The Michigan Theater, Wednesday. (SAID ALSALAH/Daily) RIGHT Finance Pint. Amiyatosh Purnanandam speaks in the
For morn photos ot the wreek, go to michigandailycum. P.)Collnquium room at the Business School yesterday ahout the current ecnnomic crisis. (ARIBL BOND/Daily)

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 4B109-1327
www.michigandaity.cam
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-055B
graca@michigandaityecom bugti@michigandaityecom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom otficeOours: Sun.-Thurs.11 am. - 2 .n.
News Tipsnewns@nminhigandaity.coe
Corrections correctinsieihigandaity.cem
Letters to the Editor tothediypeichigandaily.com
Photography Department photo~michigandaily.com
Arts Sectiot arts~eichigandaitycoe
Editorial Page npinion@nmichigondaity.com
Spurts Section sorts@oichigandaity.com
Display Sales disptay@einhigandaity.com
Clasuified Sales chlafed@eichigandaity.com
Online Sales ontineads@michigandaily.coe
Finance finanenichigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Maonioguditor ratowiak@ichigandailycom
Jacoh Smilovitz Moanin esn Editor seihovitz@michigandaiy.com
SuNIORNS EDTORS:Jisa Berman,neor Caler, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISoANT sumS unITORnS: ato, non, Benjamin, 0. Chs, J enna Soller
Robert Suave EditorialPae Enditrn soave@michigandailyacom
Andy ReidMnaogng Sports ditor rid@michigandaily.com
SENSPOTS EDTORS:icl uerbacnh, ik~eEisensein,DaneFeldan,Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
Alex Prosperi,Col osnweoig
David Watnick Moooieg~rnunditon watnihk@michigandailycom
oSouENIOuREIORS:aie Bl~o, BrnonCnas, itnei~y Pn
ASSTA RTsn Sn EDITnOS:nshaayAndrewaa in, Dave eoa,eon Vanaoner,
Zachary Meisner and phoo@michgandaiyno
ClifReeder Managing PhotonEditrs
S ENOROOITORS: aiAlsalah, ChaneloVo abbug-othingen
ASSSTANT PHOToslOEORSax, Coilins ,his zom, bMigr Sin,Saolson
Angela Chih and design@eichigandaily.coe
Maureen Stych ManagingnDesignuEdisors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazin ditor vosgrhian@michigandaily.com
David Meriar MultimediaoEditon merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chien mitchel@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF N
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertiiigoSalesManager
Ryan Busioski CtasfeuduSlesMaoner
Marissa GerberOnline SalnesManagnn
Ber English Production DesignoManage
Meryl Hulteng LayoutsManage
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinancnManagnees
TheOMich signl (SSN075967 is5pub iseendy thrugay u ringthoetfall andiner
tems byvsudents at te Univesitelof ihgan.Onemcpy is aailabletfree of chage tollreaes.
Addiionasl cpies nay be picked uptthe Dalys oice to, 52 usitibos o fall a:1nd winetermus
(Septemierthrosughoprl 1i00..mail atre$20Yearrondubsciins (allWitert,pingnand
Summerisscesae$.Subsriptin t be epaenid.The MichgnrDalynivaoeeofuThe

0

0

4

CRIME NOTES
Erratic vehicle
side-swipes
multiple cars
WHERE: M-D8 Carport, 1600
East Medicat Center
WHEN: Wednesday around
2:t5 p.m.
WHAT: A witness reported
that a grey van, driving errat-
catty, struck several vehicles
before leaving the carport,
University Police reported.
Officers mere unable to locate
the van or damaged vehicles.
Skateboarders
loiter at B-School
WHERE: Ross School of Busi-
WHEN: Wednesday around
6 p.m.
WHAT: Several skateboarders
were observed near the main
entrance but left before offi-
cers arrived, University Police
reported.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

iPod stolen from
patient's room
WHERE: Mott Children's
Hospital
WHEN: Wednesday around
5:15 p.m.
WHAT: An iPod Nano was
token from a patient's room
after being left unattended,
University Police reported.
There is a 'possible suspect and
the countis under investigation.
Car accident in
carport
WHERE: M-1B Carport, 1600
East Medical Center
WHEN: Wednesday around 3
p.m.
WHAT: A silver Honda Civic
was involved in an accident
with another vehicle, Univer-
sity Police reported. There
was minor damage and no
injuries.

Student design
competition
WHAT: School of Informa-
tion students finalists teams
will make their final presen-
tations in a competition to
develop conceptual designs
that would aid the University
of Michigan Library in using
new technologies.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
Contemporary
art exhibit
WHAT: UMMA's Associate
Curator of Modern and Con-
temporary Art will present an
art exhibition of pulleys, cog-
wheels, mirrors and windows.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art (UMMA)
WHEN: Tonight at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art
(Alumni Memorial Hall)

42nd Street
WHAT: The Deportment of
Musical Theatre will present
a tribute to Broadway. Tick-
ets are available at the Michi-
gun League Ticket Office.
WHO: Deportment of Musi-
cal Theatre
WHEN: Tonight at B p.m.
WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts
M-Flicks, UAC
present free film
WHAT: M-Flicks and the
University Activities Center
will present a free showing of
"The Graduate."
WHO: M-Flicks and the Uni-
versity Activities Center
WHEN: Tonight at B p.m.
WHERE: Edward Henry
Eraus Natural Science Build-
iog
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1According to a poll com-
missioned by Co-oper-
ative Puneralcare, a
funeral company in Britain,
Frank Sinatra's "My Way" is
now the most popular song
played at funeral services,
APP reported. The poll also
revealed that pop songs
account for more than half of
the music chosen at funerals.
2 Tomorrow is the 4 61st
anniversary of the Inter-
national Criminal Court in
The Hague in the Netherlands.
The court was created to pre-
vent human rights abuses after
the atrocities of World War II.
s>POR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3Musicians from 33 coun-
tries performed to a sold-
out crowd at Carnegie
Hall on Wednesday night and
became the first symphony
orchestra assembled through
YouTube auditions, the Daily
News reported.

4

4


4

E

0

4

0

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 17, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
UAW focusing on
talks with Chrysler
The United Auto Workers
union has placed concession
talks with General Motors Corp.
on the back burner as it tries to
reach a deal with Chrysler LLC
before an April 30 government
deadline, two people briefed on
the negotiations said yesterday.
The decision likely means
that any deal with Chrysler will
set the pattern for concessions
granted to GM as both compa-
nies try to show the government
they have cut costs enough to get
more government loans.
The people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because
the talks are private, said the
union is focusing on Chrysler
because its government dead-
line to cut labor costs and swap
debt for equity is just two weeks
away.
Chrysler also has to ink an
alliance deal with Fiat Group
SpA by April 30 to get more gov-
ernment aid. Without further
help, Chrysler likely would be
auctioned off in pieces under
bankruptcy court supervision.
AUSTIN, Texas
Democrats: Texas
gov should disavow
secession talk
A group of Texas Democrats
says Republican Gov. Rick Perry
was reckless when he suggested
at an anti-tax rally that fed-up
Americans may one day want to
secede from the United States.
They said yesterday that he
should disavow such talk. Dem-
ocratic state Rep. Jim Dunnam
of Waco says talk of secession
is anti-American and that some
people associate it with racial
division and the Civil War.
Perry's office did not immedi-
ately respond Thursday.
Answering a question from
The Associated Press at an anti-
tax rally Wednesday, Perry said
he doesn't think Texas should
secede. But he said the federal
government was thumbing its
nose at the American people and
added, "who knows what might
come out of that."
MEXICO CITY
15 gunmen, one
soldier killed in
Mexican shootout
A shootout between Mexican
troops and a convoy of gunmen
left 15 assailants and one sol-
dier dead hours before President
Barack Obama arrived in the
country to show his support for
the fight against drug cartels.
The shootout happened in
a remote, mountainous region
in Guerrero state, where the
Pacific coast resort of Acapulco
is located, Mexico's Defense
Department said in a statement
yesterday.
Soldiers came under fire from

a convoy of gunmen on Wednes-
day while patrolling the drug
trafficking hotbed. One was
killed and another wounded in
the firefight near the town of
San Nicolas del Oro. Troops later
seized two .50 caliber Barrett
rifles, 17 other rifles, eight gre-
nades, two handguns, ammuni-
tion and eight vehicles.
NEW YORK
Health advocates

Obama absolves CIA interrogators

Tactics include
waterboarding and
slamming prisoners
against walls
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama absolved
CIA officers from prosecution for
harsh, painful interrogation of ter-
ror suspects yesterday, even as his
administration released Bush-era
memosgraphically detailing - and
authorizing - such grim tactics as

slamming detainees against walls,
waterboarding them and keeping
them naked and cold for long peri-
ods.
Human rights groups and many
Obama officials have condemned
such methods as torture. Bush
officials have vigorously dis-
agreed.
In releasing the documents, the
most comprehensive accounting
yet of interrogation methods that
were among the Bush administra-
tions most closely guarded secrets,
Obama said he wanted to move
beyond "a dark and painful chap-

ter in our history."
Past and present CIA officials
had unsuccessfully pressed for
more parts of the four legal memos
to be kept secret, and some critics
argued the release would make the
United States less safe.
Michael Hayden, who led the
CIA under George W. Bush, said
CIA officers will now be more
timid and allies will be more
reluctant to share sensitive intel-
ligence.
"If you want an intelligence ser-
vice to work for you, they always
work on the edge. That's just

where they work," Hayden said.
Now, he argued, foreign partners
will be less likely to cooperate
with the CIA because the release
shows they "can't keep anything
secret."
On the other side, human rights
advocates argued that Obama
should not have assured the CIA
that officers who conducted inter-
rogations would not be prosecuted
if they used methods authorizedby
Bush lawyers in the memos.
Obama disagreed, saying in a
statement, "Nothing will be gained
by spending our time and energy

layingblame for the past."
The Bush administration memos
describe the tough interroga-
tion methods used against 28 ter-
ror suspects, the fullest and now
complete government account-
ing of the techniques. They range
from waterboarding - simulated
drowning - to using a plastic neck
collar to slam detainees into walls.
Other methods were more psy-
chological than violent. One tech-
nique approved but never used
involved putting a detainee who
had shown a fear of insects into a
box filled with caterpillars.

New York governor
introduces bill to
allow gfay marriage

President Barack Obama, left, waves as he walks with Mexican President Felipe Calderon in Mexico City, yesterday. Presi-
dent Obama is in Mexico for a brief official visit on his way to attend the Summit of the Americas in the Caribbean.
In MeXCObama pledges help
to slow United States arms flow

President says he will
not seek renewal of
assault weapons ban
MEXICO CITY (AP) - Con-
fronting a Mexican drug war that
is "sowing chaos in our commu-
nities," President Barack Obama
signaled yesterday he will not
seek renewal of a U.S. assault
weapons ban but instead will step
up enforcement of laws banning
the transfer of such guns across
the border.
Obama had pledged during
his campaign to seek renewal
of the ban but has bowed to the
reality that such a move would
be unpopular in politically key
U.S. states and among Republi-
cans as well as some conserva-

tive Democrats.
Obama met with Mexican
President Felipe Calderon, who
has been conducting an aggres-
sive fight against drug cartels and
had hoped to persuade Obama to
push for reinstatement of the gun
ban.
Obama arrived here on the
first stop of a trip that will take
him to a weekend Summit of the
Americas in Trinidad, bringing
together the leaders of 34 West-
ern Hemisphere democracies.
Allies in the fight against
drugs, Obama and Calderon took
different stands on U.S. sanctions
against Cuba. Calderon said the
47-year-old U.S. trade embargo
has not been successful in forc-
ing Cuba to adopt democratic
reforms.
"We do not believe that the

embargo or the isolation of Cuba
(is) a good measure for things to
change in Cuba," Calderon said.
"On the contrary. Their real-
ity that we see there is that their
reality has not changed."
Obama pointed to the
announcement this week that
the U.S. was softening sanctions,
allowing Americans to make
unlimited transfers of money and
visits to relatives in Cuba. But he
said Cuba needs to reciprocate
with actions that are "grounded
in respect for human rights."
Obama acknowledged that the
United. States shares responsi-
bility for bloodshed and kidnap-
pings in Mexico that have spilled
across the border into the United
States. "I will not pretend this is
Mexico's responsibility alone,"
Obama said.

Paterson compares
effort to the fight for
abolition of slavery
NEW YORK (AP) - Gov. David
Paterson introduced a bill yester-
day to legalize same-sex marriage
in New York, comparing the effort
to the fight for the abolition of slav-
ery.
Paterson, whose job approval
rating has plunged below 30 per-
cent, is making a political gamble
that he can ride the momentum
of other states that have recent-
ly allowed the practice, and it's
unclear how the legislation will
play in New York.
The proposal is the same bill
the Democratic-controlled state
Assembly passed in 2007 before
it died in the Senate, where the
Republican majority kept it from
going to a vote. Democrats now
control the Senate, but opponents
are vowing to make sure this one
fails, as well.
Gay marriage is a crucial issue
of equal rights in America that
cannot be ignored, Paterson said.
He was joined Mayor Michael
Bloomberg, City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn and other elected
officials, as well as gay rights advo-
cates and his wife, Michelle.
"For too long, gay and lesbian
New Yorkers - we have pretended
they have the same rights as their
neighbors and friends. That is not
the case. All have been the vic-
tims of what is a legal system that
has systematically discriminated
against them."
Paterson, who is black, framed
the issue in sweeping terms, invok-
ingFrederick Douglass and Harriet
Beecher Stowe and drawing a par-
allel between the fight to eliminate
slavery in the 1800s to the current
effort to allow gay marriage.
"Rights should not be stifled
by fear," Paterson said. "What we
should understand is that silence
should not be a response to injus-
tice. And that if we take not action,
we will surely lose."
Gay and lesbian couples are
denied as many as 1,324 civil pro-
tections - such as health care and
pension rights - because they can-
not marry, Paterson said.

Quinn, who is openly lesbian,
dared anyone to "tell me I deserve
less" than the right to marry her
partner.
"Look me in the eye and tell me
that Kim and I aren't a family, that
we don't struggle every day, that
we don't pay taxes, that we don't
work every day in this city. No one
can look me or her in the eye and
tell us that, because it is not true."
At the same time Paterson was
announcing his proposal, Sen.
Ruben Diaz of the Bronx, also
a Democrat but an opponent of
same-sex marriage, met with reli-
gious leaders to discuss how to
block the bill.
Diaz, an evangelical pastor, said
his meeting in the Bronx was to
inform Hispanics, Catholics, evan-
gelicals and others opposed to
same-sex marriage of their options
to prevent the bill's passage.
Diaz said it was disrespectful of
Paterson to introduce the legisla-
tion in the same week that Catho-
lics celebrated the installation of
New York City Archbishop Timo-
thy Dolan.
Paterson attended the ceremony
Wednesday at St. Patrick's Cathe-
dral.
"I think it's a laugh in the face
of the new archbishop," Diaz said
Thursday before the start of his
meeting. "The Jews just finished
their holy week. The Catholics
just received the new archbishop.
The evangelical Christians just
celebrated Good Friday and resur-
rection. He comes out to do this at
this time? It's a challenge the gov-
ernoris sending to every religious
person in New York and the time
for us has come forus to accept the
challenge."
Paterson defended the timing of
his announcement and brushed off
suggestions that he was deflecting
attention from the state's financial
troubles, saying he has supported
same-sex marriage publicly since
1994.
"I haven'tin anywaychangedmy
point of view," he said. "We stand
to tell the world we want marriage
equality in New York state."
Paterson noted he was introduc-
ingthe proposalwith"the winds at
our back," referring to the recent
approval of same-sex marriage in
Iowa and Vermont.

Homeland security issued report
on extremism, despite concerns

Spokeswoman: report
issued before officials
resolve problems
WASHINGTON (AP) - Civil
liberties officials at the Home-
land Security Department did not
agree with some of the language
in a controversial report on right-
wing extremists, but the agency
issued the report anyway.
The intelligence assessment
issued to law enforcement last
week said some military veterans
could be susceptible to extremist
recruiters or commit lone acts of
violence.
That prompted angry reac-

tions from some lawmakers and
veterans' groups.
Homeland Security spokes-
woman Amy Kudwa said the
report was issued before officials
resolved problems raised by the
agency's civil rights division.
Kudwa would not specify what
language raised the concerns.
Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano defended the
report yesterday, but she said the
definition of right-wing extrem-
ism that was included in a foot-
note should be changed.
In the report, right-wing
extremism was defined as hate-
motivated groups and move-
ments, such as hatred of certain
religions, racial or ethnic groups.

"It may include groups and indi-
viduals that are dedicated to a
single issue, such as opposition
to abortion or immigration," the
report said.
"If there's one part of that
report I would rewrite, in the
word-smithing, Washington-
ese that goes on after the fact, it
would be that footnote," Napoli-
tano said yesterday on Fox News.
The same definition was
included in the agency's March
26 draft report on domestic
extremism. Both reports were
marked "For Official Use Only."
The departmentsaid the drafthas
been recalled and is being edited
before it is sent to state and local
law enforcement officials.

i
FRIDAYS
Domestic Bottles are only

I AY/J Ai r 4 r tieft -t

1

RMy MJTFIM, M, 17,111MIRMO

tout new model of
female condom
Advocates of the female con-
dom are promoting a less costly,
more user-friendly version that
they hope will vastly expand its
role in the global fight against
AIDS and other sexually trans-
mitted diseases.
An early version of the female
condom was introduced in 1993,
and it remains the only available
woman-initiated form of protec-
tion against both STDs and unin-
tended pregnancy. Yet despite
global promotion by the United
Nations and other organizations,
its usage is still minuscule, even
as women bear an ever-growing
share of the AIDS epidemic.
Advocates hope the dynam-
its will change following last
month's approval by the Fod
and Drug Administration of the
FC2, anew version of the female
condom produced by the Chica-
go-based Female Health Co.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


I lji t f. t f i f c-. p. MMMMMM=
AiMAt


II**.,W

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
ali of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

I


4 - Friday, April 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

L74C it1pan 43a1,6, I
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Justice for all
U.S. should acknowledge need for human rights protection
T omorrow is the 61st anniversary of the International
Criminal Court in The Hague in the Netherlands. Cre-
ated after the atrocities of World War II, the court con-
tinues to grow as a protector of human rights. Today, the United
States' treatment of the detainees at its Guantanamo Bay deten-
tion center in Cuba stands as a constant reminder that fundamen-
tal human rights are still threatened. Though President Barack
Obama recently announced that he will close the detention center,
the United States still has much work to do to make up for its ques-
tionable human rights record. The nation should proceed from the
closing of Guantanamo Bay to take up its responsibility as a world
leader in the fight for human rights, at home and abroad.

BELLA SHAH

x0
No time-outs for activism

4

The symbol of America's disrespect for
basic human rights, the Guantanamo Bay
detention center was established by the
Bush administration in 2002 to hold pris-
oners who were captured in the war in
Afghanistan. All of these prisoners were
denied their right to challenge their deten-
tions. Some were tortured. And because
they were labeled "enemy combatants,"
they were supposed beyond the protective
reach of the Geneva Convention.
Three times, the U.S. Supreme Court
has ruled that parts of what was going on
at Guantanamo Bay were unconstitution-
al. In its latest ruling, the Court asserted
that these detainees have a right to chal-
lenge their detentions in U.S. courts. Since
this decision last year, conditions at Guan-
tanamo have improved. But the center
remained as a symbolic representation of
the Bush administration's flagrant disre-
gard for human rights. For this reason, on
Jan. 22, only a few weeks into his presi-
dency, Obama announced that he would
close the detention center at Guantanamo
within a year.
While the center's closure is long over-
due, we can't forget that more dubious
instances of human rights abuses are still
being perpetuated by the United States.
Until January, the Central Intelligence
Agency was allowed to torture prisoners,
though "torture" was cleverly disguised as

"special interrogation techniques." Addi-
tionally, the United States still exports
prisoners and tortures them behind the
borders of countries that do not uphold the
Geneva Conventions.
At the same time, human rights viola-
tions aren't just occurring in secret loca-
tions around the globe. Several human
rights groups have expressed their con-
cern that the way the United States treats
its criminals constitutes a human rights
failing. Immigration policy is another area
where the United States' record is dismal.
Obama has very real human rights crises
to address right here and right now. Simply
closing Guantanamo's doors won't solve
these problems.
The government must recognize that
these practices, no matter where they are,
are wrong. Obama's efforts to stop torture
speaks to the United State's commitment
to human rights - and it's about time.
The United States has been sending the
wrong message on human rights for far too
long. It's difficult for international efforts
against torture to gain the credibility they
deserve when the United States isn't lend-
ing its full support. The United States has
a responsibility to lead the fight to end
human rights violations.
It's time for Obama to make the United
States' commitment to human rights mean
more than just words.

T here's something amazing
happening on campuses in
Michigan... and I am not a
part of it. It's called
Power Shift, a =
student initiative m
promoting energy
efficient policies.
The more students
that get involved, 
the more impact
the organization's
actions will have.
But just as difficult MEG
as changing envi- YOUNG
ronmental policy
is, there's another
difficulty that student groups like
Power Shift have to overcome, and
that's getting students to show up
in the first place - busy, neurotic
students. I chose not to show up for
a Power Shift event on Wednesday
night and I'm regretting it already.
I had good reasons for saying no -
it's practically finals time, for God's
sake. I had an exam to study for, a
paper to write and honestly didn't feel
like being in a car for two hours. But
when I turned down arideto Wednes-
day's public hearing to expand a Bay
City coal plant, I didn't say any of
those things. I just said, "I can't."
It's not that I misunderstood the
importance of the event, either.
Burning coal accounts for almost 30
percent of the United States's green-
house gas emissions. Fly ash from
coal plants contains toxic substances
such as arsenic, barium, boron, lead
and other heavy metals. Although
the latest buzzwords in the industry
are "clean coal," coal remains one
of the most carbon-intensive energy
sources available. It's poor planning
for the future as carbon emissions
will be regulated by the time capital

mobilizes such factories to be built.
It's a waste of money and a myth.
Science-based policy like electricity
generated by wind and solar power
can create safe places for our fami-
lies and futures.
The group behind Power Shift,
the Michigan Student Sustainabil-
ity Coalition, attracted my attention
some time ago. It was founded in
2006 as a cooperative effort between
the students of four Michigan col-
leges. This is the same group that
brought 430 Michigan college stu-
dents to Capitol Hill last winter to
lobby our representatives. They are
a group on campus that thinks big
and chooses events where our.poli-
cymakers are already listening.
I was already on board with this
cause. The fliers I'd been seeing
about the rally - "Say NO to coal in
Michigan!" had caught my eye for
weeks, but I never stopped to con-
sider them.
I was just, you know, busy.
I found out through friends that
this rally would take place at a public
hearing about whether to let the big-
gest coal plant in the state quadruple
its emissions. I was impressed that the
rally would have an audience with pol-
icymakers, but stayed home anyway.
I ended up missing out on seeing
morethanahundred collegestudents
from each major Michigan campus
show up in Bay City that night. About
75 were able to address comments at
the public hearing. Their message?
The 800-megawatt allowance (as
big as coal plants come) would be
throwing money into an antiquated,
destructive technology. Consumer
Energy's changes to its plant would
allow it to emit approximately 19
million pounds of sulfur dioxide,
nitrogen oxides, particulate matter

and other pollutants every year for
the fiftyyears it would remain stand-
ing. These brave students joined the
ranks of union ironworkers, electri-
cians, boilermakers, steamfitters and
bricklayers in raising the call to bring
renewable energy jobs to Michigan.
The rally that
I missed - but
shouldn't have.
Missing out on this event made
me think about the ways it mobilized
me personally as a concerned citizen
of Michigan, an environmentalist
and a potential job applicant for the
positions we'd create with green job
policy. All of a sudden, I realized that
a degree wasn't the only thing I want-
ed in the long term. I realized that I
wanted to make a difference now for
the sake of creating a greener future.
By deciding to believe in these
student movements, these students
make them something worth believ-
ing in. Sitting it out, I realized that
the results of these decisions impact
me as much as everyone in the state.
Being an involved activist requires
better planning, but believing that
such efforts are worthwhile is the
first step. Actions on a university,
local, and state level are the best
place to begin because we have
direct access to our policymakers.
Armed with the belief that change
is possible, I'm going to make more
time to be a part of it.
- Meg Young can be reached
at megyoung@umich.edu.

4

0

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers
with an interest in campus issues to become editorial board members
in the spring and summer semesters.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0

Gays face discrimination in
health care and workplace
TO THE DAILY:
While I was happy to see Patrick Zabawa
grapple with the concepts of respecting free-
dom of thought for all Americans in his recent
column, I am concerned that the need for non-
discrimination in employment and health care
were not fairly addressed (The hypocrisy of gay
activism, 04/16/2009). Non-discrimination in
employment and health care are fundamental to
protecting life and liberty for all Americans.
In 2004, Colonel Diane Schroer, a trans-
woman formerly of the United States Army, was
denied employment at the Library of Congress
because of her gender identity. In 2006, Char-
lene Strong was denied entrance to the emer-
gency room to be with her dying partner of 10
years until a biological family member arrived
and gave her permission.
When it comes down to receiving medical
services or getting a job, lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender and similarly identified people are
not simply oppressing people with different
beliefs. We are tryingto live.
In terms of medical care specifically, doctors
and other medical professionals cannot pick
and choose which medical services to provide to
which patients. Factors such as a patient's sexual
orientation are irrelevant to providing a medical
procedure. Moreover, patients can't be expected
to go shopping for a hospital with doctors who
share their beliefs in equal treatment. That luxu-
ry is not economically feasible for many.
In terms of employment, LGBT rights orga-
nizations are currently working on passing the
Employment Non-Discrimination Act, which
seeks to enact federal non-discrimination pro-
tections in employment on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity. This act is nec-
essary because many LGBT and similarly iden-
tified individuals are already employed - but
under the current federal law, they could be fired
tomorrow.
Sexual orientation and gender identity are
irrelevant factors when it comes to job per-
formance. All Americans have a right to work
according to their merits while also living open,
lives. To suggest that LGBT rights organizations
should only use persuasive means to this end is,
once again, a luxury beyond many LGBT Ameri-
cans.
When considering the struggles of LGBT citi-
zens, I hope that all of us can look beyond the
exclusive lens of marriage equality. Many LGBT
Americans do not have the luxury of making
marriage equality their top priority. In all parts
of the U.S., regardless of individuals' acceptance
of who we are, we need to be able to work and we

need tobe able to receive medical care today.
Sean Collins
Music sophomore
.Zabawa doesn't understand
purpose ofLGBT activism
TO THE DAILY:
Patrick Zabawa's column on LGBT activ-
ism represents a fatal misunderstanding of both
the purpose and context of LGBT activism (The
hypocrisy of gay activism, 04/16/2009). His basic
premise is that homophobic and transphobic
people have a right to discriminate against LGBT
people as much as LGBT people have a right to
live theirlives openly and freely. This is absolute-
ly incorrect on several counts.
Zabawa claims that it is hypocritical for LGBT
activists to push for legally binding protections
againstdiscriminationbecauseit amountstoforc-
inghomophobic and transphobic people to accept
an opposing viewpoint. The law is not a forum for
public discourse. It is an organized system of the
rules of conduct that dictate what actions are and
are not permissible. We can debate opinions in
newspapers, on the street, and at protests. Hav-
ing a court uphold fairness and equality does not
suppress opinions.
Most bizarrely, Zabawa asserts that activists
are going too far in pushing for comprehensive
anti-discrimination legislation in employment,
rather than "persuading" employers not to fire
their employees just for being lesbian, gay, bisex-
ual or transgender. Perhaps Zabawa has gotten a
little too comfortable in the University's environ-
ment, which supports LGBT people.
This environment was the result of the activ-
ism that Zabawa speaks against. The anti-dis-
crimination policy that establishes fairness here
at the University did not fully include protections
for sexual orientation until 1994 and for gender
identity or expression until 2007. And they did
not appear by magic - it took years of hard work
to get these policies in place. And LGBT activism
on campus continues today.
Tolerating intolerance is an issue of intel-
lectual freedom, and a very valid one. But when
the effects of intolerance and bigotry include
increased risk for mental health issues, higher
rates ofsuicide, higher rates of poverty, increased
physical violence, frequent sexual assault and
pervasive harassment in work or school we can-
not consider intolerance harmless. LGBT activ-
ism is about fighting for fairness, equality, and
justice. It's not about silencing opposition.
Anand Kalra
School ofInformationjunior

The leaders and best?

J 's true that I admire most of the
spirit, rhetoric and tradition of
this University. I never walk on
the Block M in the
Diag and I would
propose under the
West Engineering t
arch at midnight if
I could someday. I
fully believe pro-
viding education
of arts, sciences
and truth is essen- NEIL
tial and noble. But TAMBE
some traditions are
flawed. For exam-
ple, one phrase I
take issue with comes from the line
in our fight song that ends with, "...
the Leaders and Best." It's a great
line, but we as college students aren't
the "leaders and best" yet because
we haven't exercised leadership and
excellence in the real world, where
it matters most. Even if what we do
now already has an impact outside
of campus, it doesn't justify the title
of "leaders and best." What we do
now is the bare minimum citizenship
requires. The work we do here as stu-
dents is still valuable but it should not
be all that we aspire to accomplish.
I think the pomposity that comes
with slogans like "leaders and best"
is dangerous. We, especially those of
us graduating this year, are walking
into a lion's den of a world. We must
address domestic issues like Social

Security reform, class conflict and
accessibility to health care among
dozens of other meticulous, compli-
cated issues. As people of the world,
we must deal with bio-terrorism,
overpopulation, climate change,
water shortage and nuclear arms
proliferation, to name only a handful
of challenges. These problems don't
have easy fixes. I fear our University
of Michigan arrogance distracts us
from the treacherous road ahead and
how hard it's really going to be. We
have too many challenges ahead to
be delusional about our accomplish-
ments, abilities and entitlements.
Our generation already has a bad
rap. We're narcissistic. We insist on
having things our way and struggle
with taking criticism in stride. We
lack professionalism and the ability
to follow through when problem solv-
ing. We feel entitled to anything we
may want when we don't necessarily
deserve it.
But at the same time, our generation
has amazing qualities. We're tremen-
dously capable, curious and techno-
logically savvy. We're able to work in
diverse groups of people like no gen-
eration before us. We're ambitious and
we also volunteer a lot. We care about
the world around us and want to make
this planet a better place in any way
we can. Nobody can tell us we aren't
fired up, because we are.
We have a befuddling situation
before us. We have the opportunity to
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

be one of the greatestgenerations, and
I believe we can face our challenges
and live up to our aspirations of a bet-
ter society.We'll have to rally together
and overcome our differences while
still taking advantage of our diverse
perspectives and talents. We'll need
to have long, arduous, frustrating con-
versations with each other to figure
out the best courses of action. We'll
each have a role to play, one no more
important than any other.
We can overcome
our generation's
pretentiousness.
As University students, let's
focus on earning our maize and
blue colors. Before we start call-
ing ourselves the leaders and best,
let's have an unbreakable will to
overcome the challenges we face.
Let's be brave enough to believe in
what is right, courageous enough to
commit to what is right and unself-
ish enough to do what is right. If we
advance the public good, there is no
doubt that we will become the lead-
ers and best.
- Neil Tambe can be reached
at ntambegumich.edu.

4

a

i

a

Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Satyajeet Deshmukh,
Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 17, 2009 - 5

Death Cab
du es it outon
'Open Door'
By DAVID RIVA compatibility.
DailyArts Writer More of Walla's production
prowess flashes on "A Diamond


Mohammed Bennis and the Hmadcha Ensemble perform Moroccan sufi music.
UMM A's livingart

S
p eve
the
For
chantin
used as
of exp
religion
tion. Suf
has als'
appreci
concerts
films in
that is
sible e
non-beli
This we
Moham
Bennis a
will ma
ingly ca
through
gan Mus
The i
by the
ety, and
have col
perform
of what
nership

ufi chanting reopened.
The Hmadcha Ensemble was
nt to be held in founded by artistic director and
poet Mohammed Bennis, whose
museum's apse goal was to preserve the traditions
of the Sufi chanting of the city of
By PRIYA BALI Fez in Morocco. Their presenta-
Daily Arts Writer tions in Ann Arbor will be per-
formed in a style similar to those
centuries, traditional Sufi featured in the Fez Festival of Sufi
g of the Near East has been Culture in Morocco and the Festi-
a way val of World Sacred Music.
ressing Mohammed The Festival of World Sacred
s devo- Music is an annual week-long festi-
i music BeNiS and val of exhibits, lectures and perfor-
o been the Hmadcha mances featuring some of the most
ated in Ensemble renowned musicians in the genre
s and of spiritual music. The festival
a form 8 p.m. Saturday becomes a meeting ground through
acces- and 7 p.m Sunday which not only music, but ideas
ven to on religion and democracy, can be
ievers. At the UMMA Apse exchanged. The event works to rec-
eekend, $40 ognize the importance of allowing
med varying cultures and religions to
ndthe Hmadcha Ensemble interact with one another.
ke Sufi chanting's haunt- This open-minded atmosphere
aptivating sound resonate certainly resonates with the goals
the University of Michi- of this weekend's performances.
seum of Art's Apse. The large open space of the muse-
performance is sponsored um Apse not only has great acous-
University Musical Soci- tics, but, because there is no stage,
though UMS and UMMA it creates a setting where the per-
llaborated in the past, this formers and audience are able to
ance marks the beginning interact on a more intimate level.
will be an ongoing part- The audience will be arranged
now that the museum has throughout the space, allowing

it to view the stage at multiple
perspectives from different lev-
els of the museum. With the per-
formance out of the context of a
concert hall, the museum's setting
emphasizes the possibility of expe-
riencing the ensemble not only
aurally, but through a different
visual perspective. Bennis and the
Hmadcha Ensemble will be treated
as an actual exhibit in the UMMA
that will come to life through song
and dance.
"It will challenge us to think
about how performance changes
not only acoustically but experien-
tially when you move it into a dif-
ferent type of space," said UMMA
Director James Steward.
"It's not just the space which
changes the performance, but the
performance changes the space,"
be added.
The setting will ask viewers to
stretch their preconceived notions
of the function of an art museum.
It will also suggest more holistic
ways of approaching art objects
in traditional museums, taking
into account the culture from
which such objects are derived.
In the case of this weekend's per-
formance, the museum's inter-
national collection - and more
specifically its Islamic art - will
be given another means through

which it may be understood and
appreciated.
The ensemble will perform five
songs, beginning with incantations
and progressing into chanting and
movement. The chanting consists
of spiritual poems devoted to the
Prophet Muhammad and other
noblemen and is hypnotically beau-
tiful, transporting the audience to
another world. The songs celebrate
and praise the divine through a
collection of echoing voices.
It isn't uncommon for Sufi
chanting to be absent of instru-
ments as more emphasis is placed
on the intonation and pace of the
voices. Traditional percussion
instruments are occasionally used
during performances, and the final
song by the ensemble will feature
a guenbri guitar - an instrument
commonly heard in Gnawa music,
which is heard in Arabic and sub-
Saharan African songs.
Steward said that elements such
as historic Turkish carpets would
add to the setting's decor and pro-
vide a firm framework that this
music would have originally been
heard.
"We wanted to reinforce the
cultural character of the art that
is being performed rather than
putting it into a neutral space," he
said.

Oh, sweet irony. Sometimes Ben and a Tether," creating an ambier
Gibbard, Death Cab for Cutie's sound that forms an airy yet te:
lead singer, relies tured atmosphere. Gibbard dish,
too heavily on ***" out one of his weaker metaphors
his paradoxical he compares a stagnant relatior
wit. But this time Death Cab ship to the objects in the song
it seems unin- forCue title. Round two goes to Walla.
tentional. On "My Mirror Speaks" includ(
"I Was Once a The Open a complacent hand-clappi
Loyal Lover" on Door EP rhythm, which superficially di
The Open Door Atlantic/Barsuk tracts from the song's simplist
EP a jaded Gib- structure. A display of Gibbard
bard sings "All questionable vocal range mak(
my friends are forward-thinking the third songa push.
/ getting hitched and quitting A straightforward rocker,
drinking / And I can feel them
pulling away / as I'm resigned to
stay the same," as he reflects on
the pains of growing older, which An EP full of
was a common theme of 2008's
Narrow Stairs. nuanced tracks
The irony kicks in with the
knowledge of Gibbard's recent cut from
engagement to actress and singer
Zooey Deschanel. He has induct- 'Narrow Stairs.
ed himself into the group of clean-
cut, married men he longed to be
a part of. Hopefully this won't
signal Gibbard's last offering of Was Once a Loyal Lover" employ
songs about heartbreak and lost excessive distortion and a heavi
opportunities, an art he has per- basslinethannecessaryfor aDeat
fected over Death Cab's 12-year Cab song. Histrionic lyrics lit
existence. "There's so many bridges engulfe
The Open Door EP is a collec- in flames behind me" are expect
tion of four new songs that didn't from Gibbard, but with his quirt
make the cut for Narrow Stairs, delivery, its difficult not to fall f
as well as one demo from the their utter sincerity. The four
LP. Essentially, the EP is a talent offering is a victory for Gibbard.
show featuring Gibbard's simple Although the four songs pro
yet insightful lyrics matched up to be just as worthy as many son,
against guitarist/producer Chris on Narrow Stairs, it's understan
Walla's anal-retentive production. able why they weren't include
The competition between the two on the album. "Little Bribes" at
is playful and a unique element to "I Was Once a Loyal Lover" bo
theband's success. Gibbard's emo- sound incomplete, neither co
tional nature balances out Walla's taining a definitive ending. "M
perfectionist song crafting, and Mirror Speaks" harkens back1
vice versa. the sound on 2001's The Pho
In "Little Bribes," a angsty Album, displaying more cot
Gibbard expresses his dissatis- plex melodies, which contra
faction with the modern world's the strum-heavy sound heardc
prevailing tendency toward Death Cab's last two albums."
impulsive desires. Walla flaunts Diamond and a Tether" is a ligh
his mastery by blending a rock- er-waving ballad with a twang
steady acoustic line with an guitar line and is too complace
anticipatory background guitar to fit in with the more upbe
that seamlessly ushers its way tunes on Narrow Stairs.
into brief yet energizing piano Standing on their own, tl
and electric guitar flourishes. songs of The Open Door EP a
If the EP were a boxing match, solid and certainly worth a liste
round one is a toss up between especially when accounting f
the competing talents of Gibbard Gibbard's position in song-writi
and Walla, displaying their tight limbo.
WANT TO COVER
UMS EVENTS?
Report on performances and work for our Fine Arts staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu.

ant
!x-
Les
as
in-
l's
es
ng
s-
tic
d's
es
"I
ys
ier
th
ke
ed
ed
ky
or
th
we
gs
id-
led
nd
>th
)n-
Uy
to
9to
m-
ast
on
"A
ht-
[gy
nt
eat
:he
ire
n,
or
Ing

The life of Hollywood's 'Party'

By TOMMY COLEMAN
Daily Arts Writer
What would Vincent Chase from "Entou-
rage" be doing if he never broke through
with his role in "Head On,"
the movie that launched
his fabled acting career and
propelled him into stardom? Pary Dow
Well, he'd probably be work-
ing at Party Down Catering. Fridays at
Starz's new original series 10:30 p.m.
"Party Down" takes a more Starz
cynical look at Tinseltown
than the dream-like Holly-
wood success story of "Entourage." "Party"
follows a gang of wannabe writers and actors
who never quite got their feet in the door, and
are now reduced to having to pay the bills by
working for a catering service.
The catering company, Party Down, is home
to a wacky set of characters, some of whom
are more realistic about their chances in Hol-
lywood than others. The show's lead, Henry
Pollard (Adam Scott, "Step Brothers"), is the
most sensible of the bunch. His 15 minutes of
fame are over he was featured in a series of
beer commercials - and now he just wants to
get through life without being asked to repeat
his catchphrase.
Scott has the talent to pull off the more real-
istic-minded Pollard. He plays the part perfect-
ly, having mastered the blank, judgmental stare
necessary for moments like when his coworker
Kyle Bradway (Ryan Hansen, "Veronica Mars")
pathetically recites lines for his upcoming audi-
tion to get a role in a shitty "O.C."-esque drama.
Conversely, when geeky wannabe science-
fiction writer Roman DeBeers (the hysterical
Martin Starr, "Freaks and Geeks") babbles
about how he's more badass than George Lucas
("Everyone knows Lucas is kiddie bullshit. I'm
hard sci-fi!"), that stare of utter disbelief sport-
ed by Scott is money.
The most memorable performance, howev-
er, is delivered by Jane Lynch ("Role Models")
as Constance Carmell, the crew's eldest mem-
ber. She tells stories of glory days hanging out
with Gene Hackman and working on "Mat-


"When I snap my fingers, you'll be able to move again."
lock." Most side-splitting are the moments
where Constance imparts her knowledge -
or, often, lack thereof - about acting and the
movie business to the younger caterers.
Following the
unglamorous world of
L.A.'s burnt-out party
caterers.
The group of Hollywood misfits have a gig at
different locatiions each week. They've worked
everywhere from a homeowners' party in a
yuppie-infestedneighborhoodtoSeniorlicious,
a place where senior citizens can meet to hook
up. The mobile setting, which takes away the

stage and laugh track, puts a refreshing twist
on the tired workplace sitcom recipe.
"Party Down" also benefits greatly from
having fewer restrictions than the average
sitcom. The show airs on Starz, so, unlike
its network counterparts, there isn't strict
censorship on the show's raunchy comedy.
There's full frontal nudity in the series pre-
miere, pot-smoking in the second episode and
more dirty words in the series so far than net-
work TV comedies could ever dream of using.
The show's venue turns out to be a blessing.
The rude, sometimes downright vulgar sense
of humor in "Party Down" is used perfectly to
sell the show's brand of comedy.
"Party Down" is unlike any other work-
place comedy out there, and that's its biggest
strength. With that in mind, maybe Starz will
stop showing "The Jane Austen Book Club"
and "Hannah Montana and Miley Cyrus: Best
of Both Worlds Concert" over and over to
make room for more original programming
like "Party Down."


6-Friday, April 17, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

I

parking
025
!r!!!!!!!!! rPARKING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
We got "YOUR" spot at one of our
"Prime" lots! Call 734-761-8000 for
the locations & rates!
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
.0 .@
060

ALL 2 BEDROOMS ON SALE
GET THE LOWEST PRICES NOW!
2 BEDROOM AS LOW AS $1235.00
RENT BEFORE YOU LEAVE IN APRIL
WE MAY NOT BE NEW,BUT WE KNOW WHAT IT
TAKES TO MAKEDOUR RESIDENTS HAPPY!
We offer many amenities that others can't such as:
FREE Wireless Iternet, FRcE Fead Eeyawee,
FREE axes tnd es routroom Oud dorPtd o
Study Lounge, TV Lounge, Laundry room,
24-hourattended Lobby, Great Maintenance
Free Rentals, Free Heat and Water are included

!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroomW
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking. V
Call 734-944-2405. ILH E IN I09
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE 536 Seett FoesthAe
HD directs with DVR service & inter- Atn Arbor 014t1
net included w/ each apt. game room, 73-a Et1 28
fitness room and much more. 741-9300 .
www.annarborapartments.net Univer
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!! 2 & 3 T
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg HD Directs with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!EFFICIENCY!!www universitytowers-mi.com
Spacious remodeled apt, with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and 100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405. Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
VAIFALL 2 REMAINING! washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
RATE!! storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
I bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715 parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
Churech St. Across from Last Quad!! ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no 1001 S. FOREST
CALL C petsIanageien. LLC-sk -Great Campus Location!
forLBobIMane:e34.320.12 Large 2-bedrooms for 2 - 4 people!
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245. - (734)668-1100
$$REDUCED RATE ' www.varstymanagment.com
Remodeled 2 Bedroom 909 Church 1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
Great Location! Great for 4 people! -Great Old West Side location!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables, - Large I & 2-bedrooms!
Free Internet, Heat & Water, and park- (734) 668-t 100
ing included! Hurry....Only 3 left ! . www.varstymanagement.coms
734-761-8000
primesh.com
Studio & 1
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT or $411U
OFF RENT on remaining spaces at 4
Eleven fLofts - 734.998.4400 Tower Plum Condominium
4elevenlofts.coinTwrPlzoodosnu
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM! -an rian lms
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE. 734-663-1530
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! This special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're 1346 GEDDES
gone! universitytowers-ni.com 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
734-761-2680. +Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
"(734) 668-1100
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Let's - www.varsitytnanagement.comi
make a deal. Avail. Fall '09. On
Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free offstreet 3 BDRM APT. May -Aug. Packard Al
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777. Greenwood. $990. Pkg, wshr, dryer
incl. 734-717-2935.
***FOR SEPT. 209 Lease***
4 Bdrn. apt at1912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm. 2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025. ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
*3 & 4 bdrm Houses, A/C, free prkg. Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
& Idry., close to campus, 734-649-7571. CappoManageenlom
*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdn. apts. 3 BDRM APTS. East . $1625/o.
Fall 09. Furo. Free heat. Central Cam- B
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657- Furn. heat/water eincl. On site prkg. Fall
2096 or visit www.um-tousing.con 09. Peppers Properties. 810-731-0229.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C, spaces avai, on-site Indry. $2450 neg 
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735. elec. 321 5. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
1350 GEDDES ACCROSS from 4-5 BDRM House: Near athletic com-
CCRB Large single family house. Too plex. 2 bath, A/C, dry, prkg, fireplace,
much to list. 734-475-2577 hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
martbalt@comast.net Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
RELEASE DATE- Friday, April 17, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Rout 32 Chaplin's last wie 47 Lime ending
1 Buttnrfly units? 3 Chart again 33 Film bu sstatin 50 estern omen
8 Home inthe Alps 4 Cockney 35Suffers 51 Grocerysection
14"Again.. anticipation? 36Assimilates 53Env.contents
15 Rock salt 5 Musculardoll 37 Actor Estrada 54 Manhattan area
16 Step in a pizza 6 Satisfy the 38 German town above Houston
recipe? munchies 3 Vegas's _ Street
18 Cotton plant 7 Tempest Grand 56 Lex Luthor's 200,
originally from 8 "Ageless Body, 42_ dictum: and others
Peru Timeless Mind" passing remark 57 Datebook abbr.
19 Tranquility author 43 Old-timey "not 58 Chi.-based flier
20 Simpson dad 9 Saintly ring 45 Bo Diddley hit 598_ been had!"
with a dozen 10 Father-daughter 46 Loathe 60 Scot'sutopper
donuts? boxes ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE.
24 Floor covering 11 Dynaio A
27 November 2ouaierd'_: JAY A G I L E M A G I
winners July/August A N E G I B E S M I N O R
28Suffixwith 1Parisianfestival W G N A G E N T O R A N G E
Caesar 13 Sume NFL ALTOSAX DIME
29 Touchy? receivers
32 Milo of 17 Dogs in shoes? T E L L S L A O I M 0
"Barbarella" 18 21 stGreek letter G I N G E R R O G E R S
34 Broadcast 21 Enthusiastic G E N A L O B E R 0 A S T
35 Hook's mate in agreement O T O G E O L G Y R E D
his formative 22 Chemistry SAW I I D A L I E A R P
years? Nobelist Otto S T A G E M A N A G E R
39 Pooh pooh-bah 23 Fitlfor service S Y N A T C A G E R S
40 Farmer's 25 Sailor's heading S Y A T A 0 E R S
concerns 2eCrosedl(out J 0 A N T N R 0 W 0 N
41 Paulwhoplayed 3kty withaview G E 0 R G E E L I 0 T I G A
the principal in the Laramie A T S E A T IE E N A N U I
'TheBreakfast Mountain n GEE S HA RD G G E L
44 Dande A

45 Filmdom's Lupino 1 2 3 a 4 s 7 s8 a 5 1112 13
48 AOL rival
49 Headline about
car ntry work 16 17
for a new
financial 18 19
institution?
52 "Awakenings 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Oscar nominee 27 28 29 30 31
55 "Must've been
something -"32 33 34
56 Classic breakup
line, and a hintto 35 36 37 3
thelformation of
thispuzzle's 39 40
theme answers 41 42 43 44 45 4 47
61 Brunch fare
62 Actor whose birth 28 49 so 51
Aristoteles 52 s s45a
63 Thermometer, s s57sss9so
eg.
64 Gold or silver 1 62
DOWN 63 E 28
1 One in Tarzan's
familyptree? By Daniel A. Finan
c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 4/17/

325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwlritenaagenent.com
331 CATHERINE
" 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
" Kerrytown! - need we say more?!?!
- Or separate 3-bdrm apts; we'll accom-
modate you!
" (734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.comn
331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May -May!
- 1-bedroom private entrance and porch!
"(734)668-1100
" wwwsvarsitymanagement.com
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath rouses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
418 E. WASHINGTON
" Grad Students Galore!
- Mature, quiet study environment!!
. (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymtanagement.com
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
401 EASTaMADISON - 1 bedroomss
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.cone
515 & 521 Walnut
* CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
" I & 2 bdrms of all shapes and sizes!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitynanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
" Just off West Quad!
" Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsityenanagement.com
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhiltemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only I mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3000 neg. plus etil. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spaciouss
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May '09 to August '09 at
$1200/month and September 09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
848 TAPPAN
* ON Central Campus near B School!
* Huge 2-bedrooms, cozyI -bedroom!
* (734) 668-1100
* www.varsitymanagenent.comn
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
\pc t bi
S ae
0M ed and
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedroms

Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
WWw.annarbOrapairtment.net
or visit US at
1700 Geddes AVe.

------ - - - - - - -
WilsonWhite
M A N AGE ME N T
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates aailable
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
will waiethe application fee and redce
security deposit to one month's rent
I 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com ,
- _-_-_-_-_ _-_-_-_- - - - - '
Rooms, studios, and 1- to 8-bedroomr
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
917 PACKARD
. Business & Law School so close!
- Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
- (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanageent.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood foors
theough out the eoise. Ikea kithen swit
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon_ travis efsbeglobal.net
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate7storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL
BeautifulI1 bdm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE MAY LOCATION!
Corner of South Forest and South U.
Rooms-eff. 1/2 bdrms. 734-996-2836.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., Idry.,
bath., internet. Rent for Summer $300,
Fall $440. Call 734-276-0886.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent oir 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
=$14,820
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
-$16,656
See what we mean...
Call the Best of the Best!
!ALL 2 BEDROOMS ON SALE!
GET THE LOWEST PRICE'S NOW.
RENT BEFORE YOU GO HOME.
**ENDS APRIL 30, 2009
734-761-2680
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL RENTALS: I bdrm-$700, 2
bdrm-$1100. Heat, no smoking/pets.
502 E. Kingsley. 734-455-1487.

FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE located
near Geddes and South University. Can
accommodate six. Contact Michigan
Realty at 734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.comt EHO.
904 S. FOREST at Hill, apt. # 2. Avail
May '09 or Sept. '09-10, 4 bdrms, com-
pletely updated. 734-475-2577
martbalt@comcast.net
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
ROOM FOR RENT in nice, clean
condo. Females only, non-smoking.
$350/month Sept-Sept incl. util. Free
prkg and Indry. For more info contact
Rachel at rachelvg@umich.edu
+ t*3~_

wVast*ity
Management
(34 66-1100
Business sad Law Students
vrstlhas
86eaLscalns
Gnsa ftesl
afI odayF6raPaersaIaItaur
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 30th. That's a $300 savings. Ace
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagemencom for a list of
available properties.
HUGE 3 BDRM, apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. aptk at
5111a5. Slate, Near UM bu stop,
Avail. Now or Fal 2889, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengiD~comastnet
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-S1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
NORTH CAMPUS
Don't Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet, beautiful location!
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Reduced Rates
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
5th EHoover
2 Bedrooms:
726 State Street
909 Church
1021 Vaughn
721 5. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. apt. 1114
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C.
Free Idry. $2650+ util. avail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Ph. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House

952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!

2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
SIGN THIS MONTH,
& SAVE BIG!!!
734-761-2680
UNVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in allalo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.inichcomrealty.com for details.
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
SUbet
FREE SUBLET FINDER studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. $350/person or best offer.
Right near bus stop. 513-315-6273.
estesb@umich.edu
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLET
2 Bdrm. available, 2 Bath., Kitchen,
Living Room, Wshr./Dryer, FREE
parking. 1012S. FOREST! $350 + utili-
ties. arinchbarumich.edu
services
080
HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week- To order visit
home.comcastnet/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WRITE YOUR LIFE STORY!
A creative writing workshop with Gail
Balden on May 30, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
Ann Arbor Friends Meetinghouse
1420 Hill Street, Ann Arbor
www.creativejoumeys.net
503-368-7807
he p wanted
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
LAB INTERNSHIP FULL-time in-
ternships in reumatology research
available for spring/summer semesters.
Duties may include: signal transduc-
tion, gene therapy studies, cell culture,
proliferation, chemotaxis, ELISA, IHC,
western blotting, protein purification,
in vivo studies, lab org & maint,
reagent prep, data entry/analysis. Prefer
some lab experience. Contact
axilla@umich.edu with resume (pdf).
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichtertygoldsarfinancia.com
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.

session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
classifieds
continued on

I

I

0

4

4

4

ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor- n x
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visitour website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-

Deadline for line adS is 11:30am one busineSS day prior to publication.
Rmten: $3.75 per lineoorthe first ssueand $1,75tper lineforeachoadditional
consecutiveissue.
" Frequency and Bulkhcontracts are available- contact our staff for details
" Students may receivea 20% discount when adsare placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessadsonly)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
includes
NOTEBOOK Alice Llo
From Page 1 Other'
during
Regents approve $70 million in 10,000-s
construction and renovations Enginee
on Nort
The regents approved nearly tional sp
$70 million in construction and Solar Ca
renovation proposals to upgrade The r
University housing, parking and designed
academic facilities. sonStree
The largest of the three proj- will add
ects, a proposed renovation to 9,000 sq
Couzens Hall, will cost the Uni- for the
versity approximately $49 million ning and
to complete. The project will reno- Transpo
vate the building's 180,000 square
feet beginning in May 2010 and is Michi
expected to be completed in time in o
for the fall 2011 term.
Improvements to the building Busin
are slated to include air condition- who sen
ing and wireless Internet access Michiga
for the entire building, renovation for assi
of the building's bathrooms, utility ting thi
and safety upgrades and modifica- may fort
tions thatallowforgreater building longtime
accessibility. Due to the renova- League.
tions, the building will be closed for Boore
the 2010-2011 academic year. with a16
Though Couzens will need close what ha
for the year, University President gan Revi
Mary Sue Coleman said North to interv
Quad - scheduled to open in time Accor
for the 2010-2011 academic year - Michiga
will offset the loss of housing due register
to the renovations. with the
University Executive Vice Pres- bly. Bec
ident and Chief Financial Officer tion did
Timothy Slottow said the renova- about re
tion is part of the University's Res- the comi
idential Life Initiative, which also Boore
economi
NUCLEAR also reds
From Page 1 Prof.
and Rad
Nuclear Engineering and Radio- been re
logical Sciences, has been working ter repr
in a field called computational par- nuclear i
ticle transport. His focus, he said, eration o
is on the simulation of radiation in advan
transport for applications in nucle- cooled fa
ar reactor and shielding design, as "Nucl
well as cancer treatment planning. excelleni
"Basically the reactor analyst or carbon-f
shielding analyst or radiation oncol- of energ
ogist needs to know where the radia- of the w
tionisgoing and where itis absorbed future," L
and where does it leak out," he said. His r
Martin, along with multiple cial bes
graduate students, has been using point ag
stochastic simulation - which imprope
simulates particle tracks and col- Marti
lisions on a computer - in his timent t
research. With this, researchers one of he
can model complex systems of "In th
nuclear reactions. reservat
Martin explained that these power se
models are an advanced reactor the wast
concept that helps improve safety, to the pre
the michigan daily
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Haynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0t00.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefundumichedu or 7e3.4400. ____

OWN A COMPUTER? Put it to
Work! Up to $t,eee to $5,000/mo "
PT/FT Free Info! www.ptibusiness.com
WANTED ADMINISTRATIVE AS-
SISTANT to work in the food trading
business. Knowledge of Excel, Word,
and Power Point in a mac environment For St
very helpful. Salary commensurate ARIE
with experience 248-851-4500. (Mars
Contac
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students female f
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day and in f
being a mystery shopper. No experi- tional.
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791. someon
TAIJRI
summer employme (April:
Some
might s
today! F
argumen
mcember.
CANCER RESEARCH SUMMER GEMI
INTERNSHIP PROGRAM (May
(CaRSIP) You d
As part of its Cancer Biology Training get awa
Program, the University of Michigan do some
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part anywhe
with funding from the National Insti- scenery!
tutes of Health(NIH) is providingexpo- CANt
sure to cancer research for highly moti- (June
vated and talented college undergradu- All yo
ates. This program will give the suc- are moi
cessful applicants an opportunity to ex- notice tt
plore potential careers in the ers, be
cancer. Interns are paid a stipend of erb
$4,500 for ten weeks during the sum- might f
mer and are aimed at students who are that is jo
completing their sophomore or junior LEO
undergraduate year this spring. In (July
keeping with the terms of the NIH Today
grant, we especially encourage applica- relations
tions from individuals from minority definitel
groups that are currently underrepre- react to
sented in biomedical and behavioral ('loo sill
research. VIRG
The deadline for application is 17 April (Aug.
2999. Your application must be up- Duty
loaded at the following site: to be o
http://www.cancer.med.umich.edu/pro- aware
fessionals/summerinternship.shml chance,
duties, e
Questions about the program? Please others e
email La Cheryl Wicker at LIBRA
lwicker@umich.edu (Sept.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (00) 626 - 6304.
www.thseislandhouse.com

Friday, April 17, 2009 - 7

a future renovation of
oyd Hall.
proposals approved
the meeting included a
quare-foot addition to the
ring Programs Building
h Campus to provide addi-
ace for student groups like
r and Concrete Canoe.
egents also approved a re-
d proposal for the Thomp-
etParkingStructure,which
273 parking spaces and a
uare foot office building
Office of Budget and Plan-
the Office of Parking and
rtation Services.
dgan Review seeks help
office space dispute
ess senior Karen Boore,
ves as publisher of the
n Review, asked regents
stance yesterday in cut-
rough bureaucracy that
ce the publication from its
e office in the Michigan
presented the regents
-page packet that outlined
A happened to the Michi-
iew and urged the regents
ene in the situation.
ding to the report, the
n Review failed to re-
as a student organization
Michigan Student Assem-
ause of this, the organiza-
not receive information
newing office spaces for
ing year.
said the group did not re-
cs, non-proliferation and
uce nuclear waste.
of Nuclear Engineering
io Sciences John Lee has
searching ways to bet-
ocess and recycle used
fuel, both in current gen-
f light water reactors and
ced reactors like sodium-
sst reactors.
ear power offers an
t potential for reliable,
ree and economic form
y for the U.S. and the rest
world for the foreseeable
Lee said.
esearch, Lee said, is cru-
cause a major arguing
ainst nuclear power is the
r disposal of waste.
n agrees that popular sen-
oward nuclear energy is
sitation.
he public eye, the primary
ion about using nuclear
ems to be how to get rid of
te," Martin said, referring
oblem as a political, more

register as a student organization
because the group does not receive
MSA funding. Furthermore, Boore
said communication from MSA did
not mention that a student organi-
zation status would be necessary to
renew the group's office space lease.
After listening to Boore and
reviewing some of the supporting
documentation, several regents
voiced support for a closer exami-
nation of the process and assis-
tance for the group.
Regent Andrew Richner
(R-Grosse Pointe Park) asked
administrators to look into the
matter further.
"It seems to me there are some
valid issues that have been raised,"
he said. "I'm particularly con-
cerned about due process and how
the student organization were
notified."
Laurence Deitch (D-Bingham
Farms) also said steps should
be taken to assist the Michigan
Review in securing an office
space.
"We ought to try to figure out
with students a way the students
can support the Michigan Review
because I think the diversity of
views is very important," he said. "I
probably don't agree with most of
the things in the Review but I think
the voice is very important on this
campus and it's a value that's con-
sistent with our institution."
Regent Andrea Fisher Newman
(R-Ann Arbor) supported Rich-
ner's and Deitch's request, but said
administrators needed to respect
the student control of the process.
than technical, issue.
"We have known for decades
how to dispose of the waste safely
and effectively but no jurisdiction
wants the waste stored in their
domain," Martin said.
The Yucca Mountains in
Nevada have been isolated as a
no-man's land for nuclear testing.
And this would be an ideal loca-
tion for disposal, Martin said, but
governments are not complying.
"They don't want the waste in
their backyard," he said.
Martin explained that while
waste disposal has been a signifi-
cant issue, nuclear power actually
pays for its waste disposal.
"All customers pay $1 mil/
kwh for the ultimate disposal of
the waste. This waste fund was
supposed to pay for the facil-
ity at Yucca Mountain," Martin
said. "Instead, it pays lawyers on
both sides of the Yucca Moun-
tain issue. So our money is being
wasted, but the waste is not being
stored."

CAMPUS GROUPS
From Page 1
moment, which is called tuition-
free detached study, which allows a
whole lot of flexible uses," McGirr
said. "Our really big concern is that
this reduces diversity atthe Univer-
sity of Michigan."
McGirr, along with three other
Rackham students, also spoke in
front of the Board of Regents at its
monthly meeting after the rally.
McGirr presented the regents with
a petition signed by over 750 gradu-
ate students who oppose the policy
and urged the regents to block it
from being implemented.
Rackham student Marie Puccio
spoke at the meeting to outline why
so many graduate students have
concerns about the policy.
"We believe 'Dean Weiss and
Rackham, though well-intentioned,
have pushed this policy forward
without adequate consultation of
those affected," she said. "With-
out providing a strong rationale,
they are completely overhauling
the current system and without
considering the unintended nega-
tive consequences of the policy for
those students who currently use
tuition-free detached study or will
require it in the future."
Rackham student Tiffany Tsang,
who serves as president of the Rack-
ham Student Government, told the
regents she thinks many Rackham
students are opposed to the policy
because they don't fully understand
what the policy will do.
"A significant number of stu-
dents are still clueless about the
policy," she said. "Of the remain-
ing students, many have been fed
misinformation, and of the group
that has the correct information,
some are supportive, especially
in the biological and physical sci-
ences."
In response to the speakers at
the meeting, University Provost
Teresa Sullivan told the regents
that the continuous enrollment
policy is still being worked out,
which is why she believes there is
so much confusion and opposition
to the proposal right now.
"The fact that there are perhaps
more questions than answers now
is because there really has not been
an implementation of those yet,
that phase is just now starting," she
said. "I think I would just ask that
we all keep an open mind as we go
through the implementation phase
and see if we can make it work."
Several of the regents expressed
concern about the impact the policy
could have on graduate students
who have families.
Regent Laurence Deitch
(D-Bingham Farms) said he was
concerned with the policy and was
especially troubled that it may be
unfair to women who have children
while in school.
Echoing Deitch's sentiment,
Regent Julia Darlow (D-Ann

Arbor) asked Sullivan for clari-
fication about the policy regard-
ing maternity leaves and leaves
of absence under the new policy.
Sullivan assured the regents that
maternity leave and personal leaves
of absence would be available.
Regent Denise Ilitch (D-Bing-
ham Farms) questioned whether
the regents would be able to review
the policy before it was implement-
ed. Sullivan told the regents she
would brief them in the fall, since
the policy is currently under devel-
opment and isn't scheduled to take
effect until Fall 2010.
In an interview after the meet-
ing, Rackham Dean Janet Weiss
said she was currently working to
address students'concrns,but that
concrete reassurances wouldn't be
available until more planning has
been completed.
"I am concerned about the same
things that they are concerned
about and I am doing my very best
to put in place the funding piece,
the policy piece and the advising
piecethatwill all speaktotheircon-
cerns," she said. "I want to address
them, I plan to address them and it
will just take some time to do that."
Weiss said she is working to
ensure that no graduate student is
forced out prematurely because of
financial changes that may affect
some students.
When asked whether consider-
ationhad beengivento implementing
the policy for incoming students and
maintaining the existing policy for
current students, Weiss said it would
not be logistically possible. Weiss
said a split implementation would
be too cumbersome on the adminis-
tration and information technology
operations and would be highly con-
fusing to faculty who handle funding
sources for graduate students.
Members of the Lecturers'
Employees Organization also par-
ticipated in yesterday's rally and
regents meeting. LEO was protest-
ing the handling of its contract with
the University, claiming that Uni-
versity administrators have been
hiding money for faculty pay raises
in funds that are not considered
when making equal pay raises for
lecturers.
LSA Lecturer Marc Ammerlaan,
who serves as co-chair of LEO, said
at the rally he was planingto speak
at the regents meeting because he
was hoping the regents would urge
administrators to go back to the
table with LEO to settle the dispute
without arbitration.
"We really have been pushing to
get this issue settled in talks, and I
think only the regents can make the
provost come back and talk to us,"
he said. "I do think that this is the
last best hope, otherwise we con-
tinue on and go through the arbi-
tration."
In the meeting, LSA Lecturer
Elizabeth Axelson told the regents
she was seeking a renewal of col-
laboration between LEO and the
University and to rebuild their now

strained relations.
"We're looking for greater coop-
eration, we're looking for good
faith in our negotiations and in the
implementation and the mainte-
nance of the contract that we share
and we're looking for a kind of res-
toration of trust at this point," she
told the regents.
LEO's contract with the Univer-
sity stipulates that "all employee
full-time salary rates shall increase
by the average annual percent
increase, excluding retention, pro-
motion and equity increases, for
tenured and non-tenure-track fac-
ulty of the respective arts and sci-
ences college at each campus."
LEO claims that, because the
University has decreased the per-
centage of money spent on normal
payraises andincreasedtheamount
of money spent on retention incen-
tives and pay equity increases, the
University is breaching its agree-
ment to maintain pay raise levels
among professors and lecturers.
In an interview after the regents
meeting, Jeff Frumkin, associate
provost and senior director for aca-
demic human resources, said LEO
had a right to follow a grievance,
but that it was up to LEO members
to take the next step.
"We have a dispute about what
the language means and we have a
contractual procedure that ends in
binding arbitration that will deter-
mine what that language means,"
he said. "We're waiting for the
union to contact us to schedule arbi-
tration. The ball is in their court at
this point to reach out and say we're
ready to move to arbitration, we're
ready to schedule that arbitration."
When asked about the Univer-
sity's rationale for the transfer of
funds from the traditional pay raise
accounts to the incentive, retention
and equity raise accounts, Frumkin
said he was not comfortable speak-
ing about the details of an ongoing
arbitration.
Students from the Stop The Hike
coalition were also present at the
meeting and rally. They reminded
the regents that they support a
freeze on tuition if the state appro-
priations do not fall from last year's
levels.
Several students from the group
also spoke at last month's regents
meeting. In response to their com-
ments in March, Regent Andrea
Fischer Newman "(R-Ann Arbor)
said she supported the group's mis-
sion because it included the stipu-
lation about state funding holding
steady.
"I personally think it's a rational
proposal," she said in Marcl.
Members of the group who
spoke yesterday urged regents and
University administrators to do
everything possible to ensure that
if tuition is raised, it be raised by as
little as possible to ensure contin-
ued accessibility to the University.
- Daily News Editor Jillian
Berman contributed to this report.

bus late again? Child Care
the
stop095
why rnot do the
cro5sword puzzle CHILD CARE NEEDED for 2 year
whileyou ait? old & 2 mo. old. Hon. and Wed. after-
while you wait? noons and every other Sat .Transafreq
74-RRI-4705

POLICY
From Page 1


aturday, April 18, 2009
;S
;h 21 to April 19)
ct with friends, especially
friends, will be important today
act, possibly personal and emo-
You feel rather protective of
e. (possibly even jealous.)
U1S
20 to May 20)
aspect of your most intimate life
uddenly be on public display
or example, it could be a public
it with a loved one or a family
rOuch.
NI
21 to June 20)
efinitely have a strong urge to
y from it all today. You want to
thing different. You want to be
re but here. You need a change of
ChR
21 to July 22)
iur emotional experiences today
re intense than usual. You'll
his in your exchanges with oth-
they casual or intimate. You
eel territorial about something
intly shared with someone.
23 to Aug. 22)
your attention turns to personal
ships and partnerships. Contracts
y will be more emotional. Don't
others with a knee-jerk response.
y.)
iO
23 to Sept. 22)
comes first today. You're happy
f service to others. You're very
f htw nd when you have a
to fulfill year obligations and
especially with respect to what
xpect of you.
.A
23 to Oct. 22)

You might feel very in love with
someone today. Even casual flirtations
excite you a lot. (Oh, my.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You need some private time to curl up
in a prenatal position at home. Give
yourself some relaxing moments to just
be comfortable in private.
SAGITTAR IUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
It's easy to be persuaded or influenced
by others today. You seem to be waffling
about someting. A female retelative
night play a strong rote today.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
It's easy to identify with your posses-
sions today. Because of this, you might
be reluctant to share something or loan
somebody something.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You feel a strong need to belong to
others today. You want to be reasssured
by friends that they care. Nevertheless,
you're also emotionally giving today.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Work alone or behind the scenes
today. You need to withdraw from the
busyness of life around you. Take a men-
tal health day if you can.
YOU BORN TODAY The notion of
protecting things or defending others is a
strong theme in your life. You value your
honor, and you respect the honor of oth-
ers. You're fair-minded and highly ener-
getic in your attempt to champion the
righteous causes of others. Obviously,
this means you are loyal to your family.
Your year ahead is wonderfully social
end pleasant, eand is favorable for rela-
tionships.
Birthdate of Conan O'Brien, TV host;
David Tennant, actor; Clarence Darrow,
Scopes trial defense attorney.

is making money."
Zimmerman said this explains
why, in December, the Detroit
Three were knocking on the federal
government's door asking for funds,
and that otherwise they would have
completely shut down.
He said the issue now is the pres-
sure on the companies to make
faster progress and more extreme
progress on structural cost to not
waste taxpayers' money.
Zimmerman said this might be a
"bargaining strategy" on the part of
the Obama administration in order
to encourage the automakers to
work harder, instead of relying on
the government to bail them out.
But we'll have to see in the next
couple months, he said, whether the
Obama administration lets these
companies fail or not.
Joel Slemrod, director of the
University's Office of Tax Policy
Research and a Business School
professor, said that for a long time
our country has been in financial
unrest, and many believed that it
was "going to take a crisis to get our
political system to deal with it"
"Well, folks, we have our crisis,"
Slemrod said. "But it is not clear
that it will break down our political
impasse."
Slemrod said that Washington's
tax policies played three crucial
roles in the financial crisis - cause,
remedy and victim.
Slemrod said tax policies have
contributed to the crisis by causing
more corporate bankruptcy, more
American overspending and a nar-
row focus on short-term goals to
boost the economy.
The tax policies caused more
Americans to spend beyond their
HANI
JOIN

means by "making us think we are
richer than we actually are," he said.
Slemrod arguedthatAmericanswere
spending without realizing the defi-
cit meant more tax increases later.
Another factor, he said, is that
"we're facinga period with tremen-
dous underutilization of resources
not only with unemployed people,
but with unutilized capital."
Slemrod said the will to spend is
quite low right now in the country,
and that only a fifth of Americans
said that if there were tax cuts they
would spend more.
He said the country should focus
on how tax policy has contributed
to the growth of the economy, how
the taxburden is distributed among
people and how much it contributes
to spending.
But Slemrod said he doesn't
believe tax policies were the main
cause of the financial crisis. He said
"tax cuts (are) the white knight that
has kept this contraction from being
even worse than it is."
The tax cuts of 2009 will be deliv-
ered in a different way than 2008,
Slemrod said. Instead of a large
rebate check being sent through the
mail, taxes will be withheld on your
take-home paychecks, Slemrod said.
This will make peoples' checks larg-
er than the month before, encourag-
ing them to spend more, compared
to the fact that they would be more
inclined to save a check with a big
number on it.
But Slemrod said tax policies
would ultimately fall victim to the
current recession because "the bud-
get gives very little attention to the
long-term fiscal problems that the
federal government faces."
He added that this "may lead us
to have worst tax policies in the long
run."
One goal to boost the economy, he
said, is to increase the taxburden on

the more affluent citizens.
But Slemrod said to correct the
current crisis, "there is no way we
can do this by raising taxes on only
high-income people, it's going to
take high increase over a broad sloth
of people."
Another goal current tax poli-
cies aim for is encouraging people
to spend more money. But Slemrod
said it should be just the opposite.
The government should be working
to have people spend less and save
more, he said.
The result will either be that
future taxpayers will raise the taxes
on themselves, or they will cut back
on their promises. He said most
likely there would be a combination
of the two.
Prof. Amiyatosh Purnanandam,
the Bank One assistant professor of
Finance, and an expert on various
aspects of risk management, spoke
about the banking sector in the
downturn.
Purnanandam discussed the
three tiers in the banking system:
government trying to regain confi-
dence in the banking system, inject-
ing capital inthe banking sector and
injecting liquidity in the banking
sector.
The recession, Purnanandam
said, has caused many consumers to
lose faith in the banking system.
Purnanandam said one way
to increase the capital would be
encourage consumers to buy "pref-
erable stocks."
If not, we need to inject more
liquidity by providing consumers
with credit, he said.
But Purnanandam said he real-
izes that this creates a vicious cycle.
"If the problemwas too much bor-
rowing by consumers and too much
borrowing in the market than what
are we trying to achieve by supplying
more credit?" he asked.

v!2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc

DY WITH A CAMERA?
DAILY MULTIMEDIA.

E-mail davazad@umich.edu


8 - Friday, April 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Paulus still mulling
over football options

By RUTH LINCOLN,
COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
and ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editors
Former Duke point guard Greg
Paulus said in a conference call yes-
terday that he has been offered an
opportunity to join the Michigan
football team and compete for play-
ingtimeatquarterback,accordingto
ESPN.com. He has not been offered
a scholarship, school officials told
the Detroit News yesterday.
The ESPN.com report on Thurs-
day morning was unclear whether
the offer was fora scholarship or just
to join the team. Because it's techni-
cally a recruiting issue, a spokesman
fortheAthleticDepartmentdeclined
to comment when contacted by The
Michigan Daily.
Michigan early-enrollee quarter-
back Tate Forcier told The Michigan
Daily he saw the report yesterday
morning and talked with quarter-
backs coach Rod Smith about the
situation.
"I've been talking to coaches all
morning, and my position coach,
Coach Smith, he told me specifically
that they have not offered him - they
don't know why he would lie," Forci-
er said Thursday afternoon. "They
said, 'We'll let you'll know what's
up,' because right now, their specific
words were, they haven't offered."
When asked how he would react
if Paulus did indeed join the team,
Forcier said that "if it happens, it
happens."
"I'm not worried about it," Forci-
er said. "A kid like that was good in
high school, but it's nearly impos-
sible to come back to this level and
play. It might be possible, but not in
the quarterback position. You have
to know too much, you have to know
the speed of the game."
Forcier's olderbrother Jason, who
missed the 2007 season per NCAA

eligibility rules after transferring
to Stanford from Michigan, saw the
Paulus situation similarly.
"Football might be the hardest
sport to come back from a layoff
and play," Jason said to The Michi-
gan Daily. "If you look into different
sports, professional leagues, you've
got minor leagues for baseball and
basketball. The NFL doesn't have
any of that.
"It just doesn't materialize
because that's how hard it is to stay
competitive."
Paulus attended Tuesday's final
spring practice to talk with Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez about
joining the team, according to FOX-
Sports.com.
Jason said Tate's understanding
was that Paulus arrived at Tues-
day's practice unannounced and the
coaches weren't aware of his arrival.
Paulus was a highly touted dual-
threat quarterback in high school,
passing for 11,763 yards and 152
touchdowns.
Michigan isn't the first place Pau-
lus has looked to play football. On
Wednesday, Duke coach David Cut-
cliffe offered Paulus a tryout at wide
receiver, according to ESPN.com.
"He's a quarterback at heart, but
there was no way he was going to be
able to compete and play quarterback
for us," Cutcliffe said to ESPN.
But Paulus told reporters ina con-
ference call Thursday morning he is
only interested in playing quarter-
back, according to ESPN.com.
"The chanceto competeforastart-
ing job is important," Paulus said in
the conference call. "With me only
having an opportunity to play for one
year, the chance and the opportunity
to compete at a high level is impor-
tant. There is an opportunity to do
that at Michigan."
On the Dan Patrick radio show
Thursday morning, Paulus con-
firmed that he worked out with the
NFL's Green Bay Packers last week.

He said he talked with a Big Ten
and a Big East team, as well as other
schools. Paulus also was interviewed
Thursday on ESPN's "Pardon the
Interruption."
"What he's doing is generating
great interest, and that's smart on his
part," Jason said of Paulus. "If he's
considering himself a product, that's
really good marketing. It should be
a snowball effect, whatever school
takesunoticeof it."
Paulus played four years of bas-
ketball at Duke. But under NCAA
rules, he has a fifth year of eligibility
should he choose to use it in a sport
other than basketball. Every student-
athlete has five years of blanket eligi-
bility and can play four years of one
particular sport.
The NCAA released a statement
yesterday considering Paulus's situa-
tion. Itsaidthat if an athlete wants to
compete immediately as a graduate
student, his school will have to apply
for a waiver.
"One of the factors our members
have determined is appropriate for
a graduate student waiver is if the
transfer is academically motivated,"
the statement read, according to
ESPN.com.
Paulus had garnered various aca-
demic awards in his career, including
a third-team ESPN The Magazine
2007-08 Academic All-America
selection.
If Paulus joins the Wolverines in
the near future, he would compete
with Tate Forcier, incoming fresh-
man Denard Robinson and redshirt
junior Nick Sheridan for the Wolver-
ines' starting quarterback spot.
"The next step is to keep learn-
ing about the different opportuni-
ties that are out there," Paulus said
on the Dan Patrick radio show.
"Whether it's a university or the
workouts with the NFL teams ...
basketball is an option as well.
Just trying to learn about each
opportunity."

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Sophomore Ben Baldus-Strauss scored a 15.6 on vault in the NCAA qualifiers last night. He matched his best score of the year.
wolverines surge past Cal for
second place in NCAA qualifier

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
MINNEAPOLIS - When the
final rotation of the NCAA men's
gymnastics team qualifiers began,
the No. 4 Michigan men's gym-
nastics squad stood in third place,
just .65 points ahead of No. 8 Penn
State.
Less than 30 minutes later, junior
co-captain David Chan came racing
back to the sidelines after hitting
his handspring double front vault.
He pumped his fists and practically
skipped back into the arms of his
teammates.
The Wolverines had not just left
the Nittany Lions in the dust - they
also surpassed No. 5 California to
secure second place in the session
with their best score of the season,
358.30.
Michigan has made it to NCAA
team finals in the last two seasons
by the skin of its teeth, sliding into
the Super Six in sixth place both
years. This year, Michigan quali-
fied fourth overall for tomorrow
night's Super Six team finals, giving
the Wolverines fourthpick of which
event on which to begin the night.
Few other than the Wolverines
themselves would have predicted
their finish after one rotation of
competition. Michigan opened the
session on parallel bars, its worst
event atthe BigTen Championships,
and didn't do much better than two
weekends ago.
Freshman Syque Caesar led the
Wolverines off with a hit set in his
first appearance since partially
tearing his meniscus. But his team-
mates couldn't build on it. Senior
co-captain Phil Goldberg called the
rotation "atrocious."
After that, the Wolverines pro-
gressed slowly but steadily through

the rankings, posting consistenthits
through the next five events. Just
like at Big Tens, sophomore Thomas
Kelley earned Michigan's top high-
bar score in the anchor slot, putting
the team on a roll.
On floor, the energetic, fiery
atmosphere that manifested at Big
Tens returned with a vengeance.
Sophomore Ben Baldus-Strauss,
who is often ribbed by his team-
mates for looking dissatisfied after
every performance, even gave a fist
pump while he ran off the floor.
Senior Scott Bregman, who missed
his set at Big Tens, hit every pass
in Minnesota's Sports Pavilion as
his teammates went crazy. Kel-
ley and sophomore Chris Cameron
anchored the rotation with Michi-
gan's two highest floor scores.
Most teams dread the pommel
horse rotation - it is widely regard-
ed as the most difficult event in
gymnastics and the easiest on which
to make a major mistake. Michigan,
on the other hand, welcomed the
challenge.
Goldberg got the Wolverines
started with a 14.60, his high-
est score of the season. Redshirt
freshman Adam Hamers smoothly
executed his set for a 14.90, a sea-
son high, and Chan and Cameron
finished it off with two huge 15.15
scores.
"I was joking with the coaches
that I was going to break a 14.50
today, but I didn't actually think I
was goingto do it," Goldberg said.
Though No. 1 Stanford pulled
away, eventually winning the ses-
sion with a 361.10 score, the Wol-
verines were still within striking
distance of Cal as they headed into
the two highest-scoring events of
a gymnastics meet, still rings and
vault. And Michigan had all the
momentum it needed.
When Cameron followed Gold-

berg's near-perfect 15.15 rings set
with Michigan's top rings score
(15.35), his father beamed from ear-
to-ear in the stands. Cameron's spe-
cialties are usually pommel horse
and parallel bars - and last night,
he competed through intense pain
in his right shoulder.
"(Cameron's) doing an excellent
job," Kelley said. "He's just such a
tough kid. He's giving all he's got for
this team and he's making sure that
his routines are the best that they
can be."
In the final rotation, Michigan
didn't look back at Penn State, even
though the Nittany Lions trailed
close behind. Instead the Wolver-
ines had their eyes on the Golden
Bears - and second place.
Baldus-Strauss and Chan were
the final Wolverines to vault. For
Baldus-Strauss, it was the one-year
anniversary of breaking his ankle
on the same event. To make mat-
ters worse, he had to wait through a
lengthy judging conference regard-
ing senior Ralph Rosso's vault.
Finally, he got the signal to go and
tied his season-high with a 15.60.
"It was probably one of the best
meets I've ever had, and it's such a
good feelingto peak rightat the end,"
said Baldus-Strauss, who had about
20 family members and friends at
the meet. "And we're seeded so well
- we almostgave Stanford a run for
their money, and we have room for
improvement."
Like Baldus-Strauss, anchor
Chan has also been teased for
not celebrating. He made up for it
Thursday night. Never before had
the junior shown such emotion in
a meet as when he landed his vault
and took a small hop forward.
"After Big Tens, I just told myself,
'You've got to find the landing. It's
there, I just have to find it,' " Chan
said. "I found it today."

Berset, Burgoon finally back

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Most kids have a teddy bear, an
action figure or a blanket to make
them feel safe.
The Michigan baseball team has
junior catcher Chris Berset.
Michigan's safety blanket
returned to action yesterday dur-
ing the Wolverines' doubleheader
against Eastern Michigan.
The whole pitching staff, aside
from senior Chris Fetter, has strug-
gled of late, allowing an average of
8.7 runs over the last 10 games. In
six of those contests, they allowed
10 or more runs, including Wednes-
day's 11-5 loss to the Eagles.
Berset played in his first game
since breaking his thumb on his
throwing hand in February against
Jacksonville.And he's alreadythink-
ing about turning things around.
"It feels great just tobe out there
with the guys and to help them out,"
Berset said. "We're going through a
tough time right now and I'm just
trying to help them out any way."
He went 1-for-4 against the
Eagles with a double and one RBI.
Berset also was 1-for-2 on prevent-
ing stolen base attempts.
Beyond the scatsheet, the Wolver-
ines will welcome back Berset's abil-
ityto handle their pitchingstaff.
"It's tough," Berset said. "I tried
to battle with some of the pitchers.
I mean they're missing spots right
now, and pitching is all about locat-
ing, changing speeds. And rightnow
we're not doing a very good job of it.
So we need to pick it up. And some-
one's got to go down, dig deep for us.
That's what we need."
Berset could be the guy the pitch-
ers need to help them "dig deep" in
tough situations the rest of the year.
Michigan coach Rich Maloney
and Berset both said the junior
would have to shake the rust off after
missing six weeks, and he said he
still needed to get his "groove" back.
Once he settles into that groove, his
effectiveness as a catcher could make

Sophomore Tyler Burgoon has a 3.24 ERA for the Wolverines this season.

the pitching staff that much better.
Along with Berset's return, the
pitching staff got a boost from soph-
omore pitcher Tyler Burgoon, who
injured his shoulder against Oak-
land on Mar. 31.
He entered the first game of the
doubleheader in the sixth inningwith
Michigan down by one. The Eagles
had tworunnersonbase and Eastern
was poised to extend its lead.
When Michigan needed someone
to shut down the Eagles, Burgoon
delivered.
With just nine pitches, Burgoon
efficiently pitched 1.1 innings. He
got Eastern Michigan's Jim Gulliver
to fly out to end the scoring threat in
the sixth. In the seventh, he induced
a double play to end the game and
improve his record to 3-0.
"Being back from an injury like
that, it was scary at first - never
know what's going on in there,"
Burgoon said. "But it felt like forever
just sitting out watching the team."
The sophomore reliever is now
tied withsophomore Matt Miller for
the most appearances as a pitcher

this season with 13 and is fourth on
the team with a 3.24 ERA.
Burgoon pitched to Berset
Wednesday and acknowledged the
importance of having his battery-
mate back from injury.
"Havinghimback, I think, instills
a lot of confidence," Burgoon said.
"He knows my pitches. He knows
where it's going to go.It's great."
Burgoon and the rest of the pitch-
ing staff are looking for positive
while trying to reverse their recent
slump. Maloney was also looking for
bright spots to take into this week-
end's three-game series against
Michigan State, which starts this
afternoon with game one at3 p.m.
"Chris Berset, it was good to see
him back out there," Maloney said.
"And the team feels so much more
confident with him there, which is
very encouraging.
"And the other thing is, Burgoon
pitched an inning. We didn't want
to pitch him more, because we need
him against Michigan State.... It's
really encouraging to see him back
on the mound. So that's a positive."

Ambassadors to the game of lacrosse

Y..u.MSir t 'r b it4 ,
9 ,,
u ~~~ ,wwQ N ,l,ncrlfr & mlererlmes4
T 9S,.ai,9-_

By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
"Sick lax."
Like a baby's first words, it was
repeated over and over: "Sick lax."
For six Japanese lacrosse players,
the phrase definedtheirlthree-week
spring vacation in Ann Arbor. The
players lived with senior midfielder
Nick Standiford and other members
of the Michigan lacrosse team.
It was all about experiencing the
life of an Wolverine lacrosse player
- the grueling practices, the long
hair, the glamorous gear, the par-
ties and the undefeated record.
"Sick Lax is a clothing company
that my roommate started," Stan-
diford said. "And (the Japanese
players) got T-shirts, pink T-shirts.
They're pretty cool. And it's also a
term to describe good lacrosse play,
so the first thing I taught them was
the phrase 'Sick lax.'"
Michigan hosts players from the
University of Tokyo each spring as
part of an initiative to help fuel the
sport's rapid growth, especially in
Japan. The country has around 100
teams compete on a collegiate level.
And Michigan coach John Paul
visits the University of Tokyo each
summer to facilitate the develop-
ment of its growing program.
Few Japanese high schools have
lacrosse teams, and most players
are new to the sport when they
come to the collegiate level. College
students coordinate the teams and
fill their coaching slots with for-
mer players. The Blue Bullets at the
University of Tokyo are one of the

best teams in Japan and excel at an
academically oriented school.
"University of Tokyo has very
weak sports, because we always
studied in high school," Bullet mid-
fielder Tokeiji Michitoshi said. "In
Japan, (we) all start lacrosse in col-
lege, so we have no disadvantage,
and we are not so weak compared
to other sports."
Despite their lack of experi-
ence, players are expected to learn
"There's no
party like
America."
the game quickly. When Paul first
arrived on the scene, the young Jap-
anese team routinely held five-hour
practices each morningbefore class.
Players and coaches spent much of
their time discussing strategies and
simulating game situations through
conversation. But now, their prac-
tices are much more efficient.
"I think having eight years of
involvement, especially with the
Tokyo team, we've had a lot of
influence on how they do things
and what they do," Paul said. "Tac-
tically, they run a lot of the things
we run, so they learn a lot of their
systems from us."
In the last three weeks, the Jap-
anese players practiced with the
Wolverines. Their lacrosse skills

surpass those of an average lacrosse
player, a testamentto the focus and
dedication of the Tokyo team.
Michigan coaches also gave each
player individual coaching ses-
sions outside of practice. They held
weight-lifting sessions, form-shoot-
ing drills and game-speed exercises
as part of their training program.
"I stay'in touch with their coach-
es throughout the year, and a lot of
their alumni, and I hear a lot that
coming here really influences a lot
of their players," Paul said. "Espe-
cially when they send us over some
of their better players. A lot of those
guys can take a big leap after play-
ing here for a few weeks."
Standiford and junior midfielder
Svet Tintchev also coordinated a
social schedule to complement the
strict lacrosse instruction. Michi-
gan players gave Michitoshi and
his teammates the opportunity to
drive on the right side of the road,
attend a Detroit Tigers game,
go bowling and experience Ann
Arbor's nightlife.
"Every year, they get more and
more excited about living the life-
style of a college lacrosse player,
which they love," Tintchev said.
"They think it's so cool that we
go to class, have a social life, play
lacrosse, and just so easygoing
compared to their lifestyle, which
is justway more strict."
When asked how he would
describe the experience to his
teammates back home, Michitoshi
responded with a big smile.
"Very fun. There is no party like
America."

I
4
6
6


