aIie Midigan DaiI1j

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, January 14, 2009

michigandaily.com

EXPANDING GREEK LIFE
Greek
houses set
for return
to campus

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Myoungdo Chung, a mechanical engineering graduate student, researches yesterday in a lab involved with battery testing in the G.G. Brown Laboratories on North Campus.
G,'U' joi to test batteries

Two sororities and
two fraternities in
long process to
re-claim chapters
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Students interested in par-
ticipating in Greek Life will soon
have more options than in the
past.
Two sororities, Alpha Epsilon
Phi and Zeta Tau Alpha, and two
fraternitien, Sigma Chi and Alpha
Tau Omega, are all returning to
campus after taking extended
leaves of absence.
Both Alpha Tau Omega and
Alpha Epsilon Phi were asked by
their national organizations to
leave campus in 2005 due to haz-
ing incidents and risk manage-
ment problems. Sigma Chi closed
in 2003 also because of a hazing
incident and Zeta Tau Alpha was
asked to leave in 1995 because
they couldn't recruit enough

members.
In order to return to campus,
fraternities must receive support
from 75 percent ofthe Interfrater-
nity Council,the body responsible
for governing most fraternities.
Then they are invited to an IFC
meeting to give a presentation
and the IFC must approve their
return by a two-thirds vote.
Blake Toll, the IFC's vice presi-
dent of public relations said coun-
cil tradition limits the number
of chapters that can return at a
time.
"We can only have one frat
expand each semester," Toll said.
Sigma Chi hasn't folly comn-
pleted the return process yet, but
it is recognized by the University
and has all the benefits of other
fraternities.
Chris Mathews, Sigma Chi's
president, said that before the
national organization will recog-
nize the University's chapter, it
will have to prove it's ready.
"We have some requirements
that we have to fulfill such
as hosting two philanthropic
See GREEK HOUSES, Page 7A

$5 million deal puts
University at center
of car innovation
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
With a new joint program
announced Monday, the batteries

General Motors Corp. hopes will
soon power the cars of tomorrow
will now be tested in the Univer-
sity's labs today.
Continuing the recently evolv-
ing relationship between the
University and GM, the GM/UM
Advanced Battery Coalition for
Drivetrains will focus on acceler-
ating the development of advanced'
batteries through experiments and

testing that will help researchers
resolve current issues with battery
performance.
GM has provided $5 million to
fund ABCD, which willbe conduct-
ed over the next five years. The pro-
gram will be headquartered at the
University and will use three Uni-
versity professors, as well as a fac-
ulty member from the University of
Colorado at Colorado Springs.

At the Senate Advisory Commit-
tee on University Affairs meeting
on Monday afternoon, University
President Mary Sue Coleman said
she was very pleased with the part-
nership and was optimistic about
the coalition's work.
"I see this as a growing area,"
she said. "I think it's a very good
sign about the future."
See BATTERIES, Page 7A

Alum Gupta nominated
for surgeon general post

MSA considers Gaza conflict

CNN personality
offered top medical
job by Obama
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Dr. Sanjay Gupta, the long-time
medical correspondent for CNN
and a University alum, could put
a new, high-profile face on the
often out-of-the-limelight office of
the surgeon general. That is, if he
chooses to accept a reported offer
for the post made last week by
President-elect Barack Obama.
Gupta, 39, graduated from the
University's College of Literature,
Science and the Arts in 1990 and
from the Medical School in 1993.
He also grew up in nearby Novi,
Mich. and attended Novi High
School.
The surgeon general is appoint-
ed by the president and serves a
foury raszko, chairwoman
of the Department of Neurosur-
gery, helpedtrainGuptatobecome
a neurosurgeon. She said his per-
sonality would help to bring more
attention to the office of the sur-
geon general.
"He has a personality which
is very bright, very engaging and
very dynamic," Muraszko said. "I
think he'll make an excellent sur-
geon general particularly in the
role of communicator, which is
an important part of surgeon gen-
eral."
Gupta is currently the senior

Students disagreed
about MSA.'s role in
reaching a solution
By MATT AARONSON
and JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporters
In the Michigan Student Assem-
bly's first meeting of the semester,
a resolution regarding the ongo-
ing conflict in Gaza monopolized
the meeting's time, as more than
a half dozen members of the Uni-
versity community weighed in on
the issue.
The resolution, titled "Peace in
Gaza and Israel," was authored by
LSA Representative Gibran Bay-
doun and MSA Chief of Staff Ash-
ley Schwedt. It cited, among other
things the death count so far in the
conflict, which now stands at more
than 940 Palestinian deaths.and
13 Israeli deaths as of last night,
according to the Associated Press.

MAX COLLINS/Wily
MSA President Sabrina Shingwani (white shirt) argues with one of the protestors.
The proposal also referenced the for Israel, Students Allied for Free-
fact that nearby Dearborn, which dom and Equality and any other
is home to a University satellite student organizations interested in
campus, has one of the largest con- discussing the conflict.
centrations of Arabs outside of the During the portion of the meet-
Middle East. ing allotted for public comment, a
The resolution called for MSA number of students and Ann Arbor
executives to meet with the student residents offered their take on the
leaders of the American Movement See MSA, Page 7A

DIANE BONDAREFF/AP
Dr. Sanjay Gupta, a University alum, is being considered for surgeon general.

CAMPUS CRIME
Ypsilanti man wanted for larcenies

medical respondent for the health
and medical unit at CNN. He has
reported in Afghanistan and Iraq
as well as in New York City after
the September 11 World Trade
Center Attacks, in South Asia after
the tsunami in 2004 and in New
Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
"As a doctor, I take care of
patients one at a time," Gupta said
in an interview with the Univer-
sity's LSA magazine in the fall
of 2008. "As a journalist who is a
doctor, I have the opportunity to
educate masses of people every
day on CNN."

While he is recognized through-
out the country, Gupta has strong
Michigan roots. He is the son of
two Ford Motor Co. engineers
who emigrated from India, and his
father received a master's degree
from the University in 1968. After
graduating from Novi High School
in 1986, he was accepted to the
University and enrolled in Inteflex
- an accelerated program through
LSA and the Medical School which
has since been discontinued.
Jim Lawrence, principal of
Novi High School, said Gupta was
See GUPTA, Page 7A

By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor
- - ------ - -
Thomas Green, a 51-year-old
man from Ypsilanti, is currently
wanted for questioning by Univer-
sity Police. Green is believed to be
tied to multiple larcenies from Uni-
versity buildings in recent weeks,
officials said.
"We've had several recent lar-
cenies from several buildings,
and we have reason to believe
that (Green), at least, was in the

area and we want to question
him," Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown said
yesterday.
Witnesses have reported spot-
ting Green at multiple buildings
around campus, including Revelli
Hall, the Intramural Sports Build-
ing and the Central Campus Rec-
reation Building.
Among the items reported sto-
len include a wallet, money and
multiple laptops, with the most
recent larceny occurring within

the past week, Brown said.
The Ypsilanti Police Depart-
ment also has a warrant out for
Green's arrest from a previous
incident.
According to a security bulletin
issued by DPS, Green is 5-foot-9
and about 190 pounds. For a photo
of the suspect please go to michi-
gandaily.com.
Individuals who have any infor-
mation on Green's whereabouts are
encouraged to call DPS Investiga-
tor Cavanaugh at (734)763-7179.


WEATHER
TOMORROWW

HI: 6 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LU: 0 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsliimichigandaily.com and let us know.

ON T HE DAILY iLOGS
The return of the online comment count.
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S .................................2A CLASSIFIEDS......................6A
Vol. CXIX, No. 73 OPINION ...........................4A SPO RTS...................... ....8A
ART..9.Thn.Michiga...aily......IA THE STATEMENT. B
michigoodoily.com A T A T ES A E E T........ .


2A - Wednesday, January 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, January14, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

WINTERFEST IS STRONG IN THIS ONE

The transition period

Election Day for federal
offices is always the Tues-
day after the first Monday
of November. But, since
1937, Inauguration Day
has always occurred on
Jan. 20th. So why the long
wait?
During the transition
period between the presi-
dential election and the
inauguration, presidents-
elect get a chance to put
together their team for the
next four years.
Following the traditions
of presidents-elect before
him, President-electBarack
Obama used the time to
choose and later announce
his administration's Cabi-
net members and White
House staff to the public.
CRIME NOTES

"The transition period
determines who the lead-
ers will be for the next four
years," Political Science
Prof. Hanes Walton said.
Walton said the sitting
president's lame-duck
period is normally a time
for turnover in Washing-
ton, D.C.
"The transition period
is a time in which politics
are restructured," he said.
Though Obama's deci-
sions represent a major
shift of power, Walton said
the president-elect can't
accomplish much until he
officially takes over the
White House.
"There's not too much
else (the president-elect)
can do because there's the

president," Walton said.
He said a unique aspect
of the transition period for
Obama is that he's meeting'
with key Congressional
leaders to discuss econom-
ic concerns - a decision
Obama's staff would argue=
is necessary for a president
set to take office with the
economy in a tailspin.
Past presidents during:
this period generally use
the time to strengthen
their own political par-
ty's power in the House
and the Senate, Walton
said. He added this often
includes campaigning for
fellow party members in
elections following the MAX COLLINS/ Daily
presidential race. Members of the Ring and Steel Stunt Troupe, Michigan alum Dave Melcher and LSA junior
JASMINE ZHU Athena Eyster, battle out a staged fight with light sabers at Winterfest.
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bagli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:Sun.-Thurs.tta.m. -2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
orrtionsh correctionsihigandaily.com
Letters to theEditor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaity.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance fnance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:Jillan Berman,TrevorCaero,JulieRowe,LindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoller, Kyle Swanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, RacheVanGilder
ASSISTA NT E DITOR IAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutter
Andy Reid Managingsports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Prosperi, Colt Rosenwenig
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor wanick@michigandaityom
SENIORnARSnEDu O RS:Jamielock,~, adnnrdi, ~itnueu Pow~ g,,
SSTN RTE DITOS: oshuaBayer ndrewapin,DaveReap, Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandailycom
tlifReeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, Sam Wolson
AngelaChib and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DavidMerian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief Mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer DisplayAdvertisingSalesManager
DISPLAYADVERTISINGASSOCIATEMANAGERSDaniel
Ryan B usinski c sifiedSales Manager
Cassified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng LayoutManager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daily (sN 0745-967) ispublished Monday through Friday during thefall and wit:er
termsby students at theUniversity of Michigan.One copy is avalabefreeofcharge toallreade.
Additionaco p pickedupat the Dalysofficeforu2.tSubsriptionsforallterm,startingin
SeptemberviaU.S.mailare$110.intertermanuary throughApritis$11,yearlong(September
through Aprit is $195.university affiliates are subjectto a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
suhb onsfor alItermare$t.tSubscriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichiganDailyisamemberot
The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

Laptop lifted Salads swiped Study abroad
from Eye Center from South information fair
WHERE: Kellogg Eye Center Quad dining hall WHAT: A study abroad
WHERE: Eelogg. y-Cn ter , vfair for students interested


WHEN: Monday at about 12:30
p.m.
WHAT: An Apple Mac Book
laptop computer, valued at
$1,800, was stolen, University
Police reported. Asubject in
the area was reported to be
acting suspiciously. The case is

WHERE: South Quad
WHEN: Monday at about 3p.m.
WHAT: Two female students
were ohserved leaving the
cafeteria with two chef salads,
University Police reported. The

in going abroad duringthe
spring and summer terms
WHO: Office of International
Programs
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m. to
5 p.m.
WHERE: Pendleton Room,

Multi-Ethnic
student forum
WHAT: A meeting to address
issues and concerns related to
student of color.
WHO: Multi-Ethnic Student
Affairs
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Trotter Multicul-
tural Center

underinves o.M n salads were valued
under investigation. Talk on youth
Talk on Cold health survey
Moretha $10 Brkenglas i WHAT: Results from the
in cash stolen Wuliglby ar experience Albany Youth Health Surv
incs tln building lobby n-u, r will he presented.
W A sq Cau~ha~n a.'osofnntse,.

ey

Sammy the cat, a fixture
at the Notasulga, Al. post
office was banned yester-
day, adcording to msnbc.com.
One resident of the small town
wrote in to complain about
the eat's presence saying that
Sammy shouldn't be allowed
in the post office because he
doesn't pay taxes.
The University's Property
Disposition department
sells old office equipment.
Prices can range from $5 to
$15 for an office chair to $15
or $20 for a bookcase or filing
cabinet.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
PAGE 6B
Two bicycles belonging to
former President Jimmy
Carter and his wife Rosa-
lynn were stolen earlier this
month, the Chicago Sun-Times
reported. The bikeswere taken
from outside the Carter Center
near downtown Atlanta. Cart-
er and his wife enjoy riding
bikes in nearby Freedom Park.

4

from wallet
WHERE: Medical Inn
WHEN: Monday at about 11
p.m.
WHAT: An individual stole
$190 from a wallet between
8:30 p.m. and 10:15 p.m. that
was left unattended near a
vending machine, University
Police reported.

WHERE: Earl V. Moore Build-
ing
WHEN: Monday at about 6:15
a.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
glass broken in the building's
main lobby door, University
Police reported. The dam-
age occurred between 4 a.m.
and 6:15 a.m. Police have no
suspects.

w A: tepnanie veroote,
producer of Sky News in
London and 2008-09 Knight-
Wallace Fellow, will give a
lecture about her time as a
reporter during the Cold War
WHO: Center for Russian
and East European Studies
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1636, School
of Social Work Building

WHO: Department of Epide-
miology
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1690, Henry
F. Vaughan Public Health
Building I
CORRECTIONS
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Investment advisor fakes death
to avoid investigation, divorce

Palestinian mourners carry the body of Hamas militant Ahmad El Shaer, who was
killed in an Israeli missile strike, in the Rafah refugee camp, Gaza Strip, on Sunday.
Gaza cemeteries
begin to overf ow

Families find new
places to bury dead
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -
One family buried a slain son over
his grandfather. Another bundled up
the tiny bodies of three young cous-
ins and lowered them into the grave
of a long-dead aunt. A man was laid
to rest with his brother.
More than two weeks into the
Israeli offensive that has killed more
than 940 Palestinians, Gazans are
strugglingto find places to bury their
dead. Cemeteries throughout Gaza
City that were closed for new burials
have nowreopened.
"Gaza is all a graveyard," grave-
digger Salman Omar said yesterday
as he shoveled earth in Gaza City's
crammed Sheik Radwan cemetery, a
cigarette dangling from his lips.
Just six miles wide and 25 miles
long, Gaza has always suffered from a
shortage of burial space. But Gazans
say Israel's shelling and ground
offensive have made it impossible for
residents to reach Martyrs Cemetery
- the only graveyard in the area with
space to dig fresh graves.
The offensive is aimed at crush-
ing the militant group Hamas and
ending its rocket attacks on south-
ern Israel. But Palestinian medical
officials say roughly half tIl dead

are civilians.
Among them are the Samouni
cousins, 5-month-old Mohammed,
1-year-old Mutasim and 2-year-old
Ahmed, whose family hurriedly dug
up the grave of an aunt to lay them to
rest last week.
"We buried them quickly," said
Iyad Samouni, 26, speaking from al-
Awda hospital in Gaza City, where
he was being treated for shrapnel
wounds. "We were afraid we'd be
shelled. My relatives were trying to
open other graves to prepare for the
other dead, but we didn't get time."
He said the family fled the grave-
yard after they came under fire from
a warplane.
The three boys were killed Jan.
5 in whatnthe family and the United
Nations said was an Israeli shell-
ing attack on a house in eastern
Gaza where they had evacuated
on soldiers' orders to avoid nearby
fighting.
Many members of the clan were
wiped out. The exact number is
unknown - figures vary from 14 to
30 people. Medics believe there are
still bodies buried under the rubble
that cannot be reached because of
fighting in the area.
Israel's military denies the
account, but says the house may
have come under attack in crossfire
with Hamas militants.

38-year old Marcus
Schrenker jumps
from plane
HARPERSVILLE, Ala. (AP) -
With his personal and financial
worlds crumbling around him,
investment adviser Marcus Schren-
ker opted for a bailout.
In a feat reminiscent of a James
Bond movie, the 38-year-old busi-
nessman and amateur daredevil
pilot apparently tried to fake his
death in a plane crash, secretly
parachuting to the ground and
speeding away on a motorcycle he
had stashed away in the pine bar-
rens of central Alabama.
Now the search is on for Schren-
ker, who is'running not only from
the law hut fronm divorce, a state
investigation of his businesses and
angry investors who accuse him
of stealing potentially millions in
savings they entrusted to him.
"We've learned over time that
he's a pathological liar - you don't
believe a single word that comes
out of his mouth," said Charles
Kinney, a 49-year-old airline pilot
from Atlanta who alleges Schren-
ker pocketed at least $135,000 of
his parents' retirement fund.
The events of the past few days
appear to be a last, desperate gain-
bit by a man who had fallen from
great heights and was about to hit
bottom.
On Sunday - two days after
burying his beloved stepfather
and suffering a half-million-dollar
loss in federal court same day -
Schrenker was flying his single-
engine Piper Malibu to Florida
from his Indiana home when he
radioed from 2,000 feet that he was
in trouble. He told the tower the
windshield had imploded, and that
his face was plastered with blood.
Then his radio went silent.
Military jetstried to intercept the
plane and found the door open, the
cockpit dark. The pilots followed
until it crashed in a Florida Pant-
handle bayou surrounded by homes.
There was no sign of Schrenker's
body. They now know they should
never have expectedto find one.
More than 220 miles to the
north, at a convenience store in
Childersburg, Ala., police picked
up a man using Schrenker's Indi-

A single-engine plane flown by Marcus Schrenker was abandoned mid-flight and crashed in East Milton, Fl. Santa Rosa County,
Fl. law officials stated that Schrenker called in a false distress call and parachuted from the plane over Shelby County, Ala.

ana driver's license and carrying a Services Inc. and Icon Wealth Man-
pair of what appeared to be pilot's agement, he was responsible for
goggles. The man, who was wet providing financial advice and man-
from the knees down, told the offi- aging portfolios worth millions.
cers he'd been in a canoe accident. And by outward appearances,
After officers gave him a lift to he was doing quite well.
a nearby motel, Schrenker made He collected luxury automo-
his way to a storage unit he'd rent- biles, owned two airplanes and
ed just the day before his flight. lived in a 10,000-square-foot
He climbed aboard a red racing house in an upscale neighborhood
motorcycle with full saddlebags, known as "Cocktail Cove," where
and sped off into the countryside. affluent boaters often socialize
Now, a search that began in the with cocktails in hand. In May
air and continued across land and 2000, he wowed onlookers by fly-
sea has been turned over to the ing a special airplane at 270 mph,
U.S. Marshals. 10 feet above the water and under
"I believe he's out of the U.S.," two bridges in Nassau, Bahamas.
Harpersville Police Chief David "This stunt should not be
Latimersaid Tuesday. "He's already attempted by any pilot that wishes
shown a mentality that's interest- to stay alive," read the caption on a
ing to police. He jumped out an air- self-made video of the flight posted
plane and left itnto crash who knows on YouTube.
where. He's shown a total disregard He'd come a long way from his
for human life. I think he'd do any- humble beginnings in northwest
thing to get away." Indiana, where he and his two
At 38, Schrenker was at the head brothers were raised after their
of an impressive slate of businesses. parents' divorce by their mother
Through his Heritage Wealth Man- and stepfather, a Vietnam veteran
agemen Inc., Heritage Insurancej who worked at U.S. Steeq Corp.

But officialsnowsay Schrenker's
enterprise was ready to topple.
Authorities in Indiana have
been investigating Schrenker's
businesses on allegations that he
sold clients annuities and charged
them exorbitant fees they weren't
aware they would face.
State Insurance Commission-
er Jim Atterholt said Schrenker
would close the investors out of
one annuity and move them to
another. while charging them
especially high "surrender charg-
es" - in one case costing a retired
couple $135,000 of their original
$900,000 investment.
The tangled web of Schrenker's
financial affairs began to unravel
more than two years ago.
The aviation buff had convinced
dozens of active and retired Delta
Air Lines pilots to allow him to
manage their retirement accounts.
In 2006, with Delta in federal
bankruptcy proceedings, he con-
vinced a group of pilots opposed
to Delta's move to terminate their
pension plan t let him help.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 14, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
U.S. deficit hits
record level; could
top $1 trillion
The federal government already
has run up a record deficit of $485.2
billion in just the first three months
of the current budget year. And
economists say the imbalance for the
full year could easily top $1 trillion,
pushed to that eye-popping level
by the spending the government is
likely to do to combat the recession
and the most severe financial crisis
in generations.
The Treasury Department
reported Tuesday that the deficit
for December totaled $83.6 billion, a
sharp deterioration from a year ago
when the government managed a
surplus of $48.3 billion.
All the red ink comes from the
massive spending out of the finan-
cial rescue program - $247 billion
out of $700 billion spent so far -
and a prolonged recession that has
depressed tax revenues.
The overall deficit from October
through December is the highest
on record for a first quarter and
surpasses the mark for a full budget
year of $454.8 billion set last year.
BAGHDAD
Biden: U.S.troops
not expected to
pull out of Iraq
Vice President-elect Joe Biden
assured Iraq's prime minister yester-
day that the incoming administra-
tion won't withdraw U.S. troops in a
way that threatens stability, an Iraqi
spokesman said.
Biden later traveled to one of the
major threats to that stability - the
northern city of Kirkuk. He urged
rival Arabs, Kurds and Turkomen to
make concessions to resolve peace-
fully their competing claims to the
oil-rich city.
U.S. officials issued no state-
ment about Biden's meeting with
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki,
which happened on the second
and final day of his visit to Iraq.
However, Iraqi government
spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh quoted
Biden as saying that President-
elect Barack Obama is commit-
ted to withdrawing from Iraq in a
manner than does not endanger the
security gains of last year.
"He said that Obama is com-
mitted to withdraw but he wants
the withdrawal to be a responsible
one. Obama does not want to waste
the security gains that have been
achieved," al-Dabbagh said.
WASHINGTON
Clinton declines
to give details on
foundation doorOs
Hillary Rodham Clinton, Presi-
dent-elect Barack Obama's choice
for secretary of state, rejected calls
yesterday for more details about
donors to her husband's founda-
tion, saying she has revealed enough
to avoid even the hint of conflicts.

An Associated Press review found
that Clinton stepped in at least a
half-dozen times on issues involv-
ing businesses and others who later
gave to the charity.
Clinton said as secretary of state
she willnot be influenced by her hus-
band's contributors, which include
foreign governments.
Richard Lugar of Indiana was
among GOP senators on the Foreign
Relations Committee pressing for
full transparency about contribu-
tors to the William J. Clinton Foun-
dation and one of its main projects,
the Clinton Global Initiative.
SPRINGFIELD, III:
Blagojevich swears
in III. Senators
The state Senate that will decide
whether to throw impeached Gov.
Rod Blagojevich out of office will be
sworn in Wednesday by - who else?
- impeached Gov. Rod Blagojevich.
In an ironic, surreal scene, the
governor will preside briefly over
the chamber that will hold his polit-
ical life in its hands in less than two
weeks. The opening of a new legis-
lative session is normally an upbeat
occasion, but how the senators and
the governor will respond this time
is anyone's guess.
"On one hand, it's a time of great
celebration here in the Senate of a
new beginning and new leadership,"
said Sen. Jeffrey Schoenberg, an
Evanston Democrat. "On the other
hand, there will be no denying the
fact that the governor's participation
in the proceedings will give it a char-
acter and flavor that many members
would just as soon not experience."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama calls on Congress for funds
President-elect asks closure. Several Democrats said his tion will blend federal spending times, despite the magnitude of the day from Federal Reserve Chair
commitments, to be made in writ- with tax cuts, and could reach $1 nation's economic woes and the man Ben Bernanke, who said in.
Congress for $350B ing, would be enough to prevent trillion in size, a measure of the challenge Obama and fellow Dem- speech in London that the emer
an embarrassing pre-inauguration nation's economic woes. ocrats confront. ing legislation could provide
bailout money drubbing for the president-elect Democratic leaders in the "It's kind of hard not to call him, "significant boost" to the sinkin

:r-
.a
g-
a
zg

WASHINGTON (AP) - Tested
before taking power, President-
elect Barack Obama appealed to
Democratsin Congress Tuesday to
allow the use of an additional $350
billion in federal bailout funds and
vowed to veto any move to block
the money.
Obama backed up his plea with
a promise to revise elements of the
original bailout program that have
drawn widespread criticism, pledg-
ing that billions will go toward
helping homeowners facing fore-

when the Senate votes this week.
"This will be the first vote that
President-elect Obama is asking
us for. I'll be shocked and I'll be
really disappointed if he doesn't
get it," said Sen. Joseph Lieber-
man, an independent Democrat
from Connecticut.
"This is a new beginning."
Behind closed doors, Obama
also urged lawmakers to act
quickly on the massive economic
stimulus measure that his aides
have been negotiating with con-
gressional officials. The legisla-

House and Senate hope to have
the legislation ready for his signa-
ture by mid-February, and House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Sen-
ate Majority Leader Harry Reid
arranged a late-afternoon meet-
ing to review progress.
For Obama, attendance at the
Democrats' weekly closed-door
lunch was a homecoming of sorts,
a return to the Capitol where he
arrived as a newly elected senator
only four years ago.
Sen. Carl Levin said the ses-
sion had a sentimental tone at

'Barack.'Sohe said, 'Call me Barack
for the next couple of days,"' Levin
said with a smile
Despite its size, the economic
stimulus bill is not expected to face
heavy opposition among Demo-
crats, and Obama has won praise
from Republicans for showing a
willingness to show deference to
their concerns. Senate Republican
leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.,
floated a new proposal, raising the
possibility ofatwo-year elimination
of Social Security payroll taxes.
Obama got a boost during the

economy.
Bernanke also warned in
remarks prepared for the London
School of Economics that a recov-
ery wouldn't last unless other steps
were taken to stabilize the shaky
financial system.
There was plenty of controversy
surrounding Obama's decision to
tap the $350billion remainingfrom
the financial bailout program that.
Congress created last fall, when
the nation's credit markets ceased
working and plunged an already
weak economy into a tailspin.

Israel continues
offensive in Gaza

Israeli troops in
Gaza City, cease-fire
talks in Cairo
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -
Terrified residents ran for cover
yesterday in a densely populated
neighborhood of Gaza City as
Israeli troops backed by tanks
thrust deeper into the city and
sought Hamas fighters in alley-
ways and cellars.
On the diplomatic front, Egyp-
tian mediators pushed Hamas to
accept a truce proposal and, in a
hopeful sign, Israel sent its lead
negotiator to Cairo for "decisive"
talks on a cease-fire. U.N. Secre-
tary-General Ban Ki-moon also
headed for the region to join diplo-
matic efforts.
Israeli military officials say that
depending on what happens with
what they described as "decisive"
talks in Cairo, Israel will move
closer to a cease-fire or widen its
offensive. They spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because they
were discussing sensitive policy
matters.
Asked if Israel's war aims had
been achieved, Israeli Defense
Minister Ehud Barak said: "Most
of them, probably not all of them."
Israeli troops now have the
coastal city of 400,000 virtually
surrounded as part of an offensive

launched Dec. 27 to end years of
Palestinian rocket attacks on its
southern towns.
Palestinian medical officials
reported at least 42 deaths from
the conflict on Tuesday through-
out Gaza.
The army said three soldiers
were wounded, including an officer
who was searching a northern Gaza
house when a bomb exploded.
Palestinian hospital officials say
more than 940 Palestinians, half of
them civilians, have been killed in
the fighting. A total of 13 Israelis,
10 of them soldiers, have died.
Palestinian rocket fire has
dropped significantly since the
offensive was launched. Some 15
rockets and mortar shells were
fired toward Israel Tuesday, caus-
ing no injuries, the army said.
Fireballs and smoke plumes
from Israelibombinghave become
a common sight in the territory of
1.4 million people, who are effec-
tively trapped because of block-
aded border crossings. Recent
fighting has focused on Gaza
City, where Israeli soldiers could
be increasingly exposed to the
treacherous conditions of urban
warfare.
The operation in Tel Hawwa
neighborhood, one mile (1.5 kilo-
meters) southeast of downtown,
matched fast-paced forays into
other areas designed to avoid
Israeli casualties.

Secretary of State-designate Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (-N.Y.) listens toa question as she testifies on Capitol Hill is
Washington, Tuesday, Jan.13, 2009, during her confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
revitalize foreign policy

Future diplomat to
change strategy
for Middle East
WASHINGTON (AP) - Hillary
Rodham Clinton , said yesterday
that she intends to revitalize the
mission of diplomacy in American
foreign policy, calling for a "smart
power" strategy in the MiddleEast
and implicitly criticizing the Bush
administration for having down-
graded the role of arms control.
At a daylong confirmation
hearing before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, President-
elect Barack Obama's choice for
secretary of state sailed smoothly
through an array of non-conten-
tious questions until two Repub-
lican committee members pressed
her to take additional steps to
ensure that former President Bill
Clinton's global fundraising work
does not pose even an appearance
of conflict with her role as the
chief U.S. diplomat. She balked,
saying disclosure rules already in
place were carefully crafted and
adequate to avoid any conflict.
Clinton appeared headed for
easy confirmation. She encoun-

tered no challenges to her basic
vision for foreign policy.
Clinton, who will relinquish
her seat in the Senate when con-
firmed, spoke confidently of
Obama's intentions to renew
American leadership in the world
and to strengthen U.S. diplomacy.
"America cannot solve the most
pressing problems on our own,
and the world cannot solve them
without America," she said, her
daughter Chelsea seated behind
her in the audience. "The best
way to advance America's inter-
est in reducing global threats and
seizing global opportunities is to
design and implement global solu-
tions. This isn't a philosophical
point. This is our reality."
In laying out a general outlook
for American foreign policy under
Obama, Clinton spoke in a clear,
unhurried voice and looked at
ease. She made it plain, citing poli-
cy themes that were familiar from
Obama's presidential campaign -
and in many cases her own - that
the incoming Democratic admin-
istration wants to elevate the role
of diplomacy. She and Obama con-
tend that the Bush administration
relied too heavily on the military
to carry out foreign policy and that

it leaned too much on ideology and
too little on pragmatism.
The Foreign Relations Com-
mittee planned to vote on Clin-
ton's nomination on Thursday. If
it approves her, she could gain full
Senate confirmation as early as
Inauguration Day.
The Senate also held confirma-
tion hearings for other Obama
choices for Cabinet and top
White House positions. Appear-
ing were Peter Orszag, to head
the Office of Management and
Budget, and Robert Nabors II,
for deputy director of OMB; New
York housing official Shaun Don-
ovan, to be secretary of housing
and urban development; Steven
Chu, to head the Energy Depart-
ment; and Arne Duncan, as edu-
cation secretary.
Chu promised that if. con-
firmed as energy secretary he
will aggressively pursue poli-
cies aimed at addressing climate
change and achieving greater
energy independence by develop-
ing clean energy sources.
At his hearing, Duncan said
that the No Child Left Behind
law should stop punishing
schools where only a handful of
kids are struggling.

Iraqi officials raise
concerns over voting
Problems result implementa legally required quota
system setting aside seats for them
from Jan. 31 on the councils.
The confusion stems from the
election outcomes election law that sets guidelines
for the vote. The measure was
BAGHDAD (AP) - Iraqi offi- enacted in November after months
cials acknowledged problems of bitter debate among rival ethnic
yesterday in determining how and religious factions.
winners will be chosen in regional Members of the Independent
elections, raising concerns that High Electoral Commission,
electoral challenges could tarnish which oversees balloting, said the
the key Jan. 31 vote. law was unclear on certain points,
U.S. and Iraqi officials have including how to allocate seats
pinned their hopes on the ballot- based on the number of votes
ing to unify the country's fractious received.
ethnic and sectarian groups. But Lack of clarity has forced the
confusion about the results could commission make its own inter-
undermine that goal and provide a pretations in establishing the spe-
new source of tension. cific guidelines for the vote.
Voters in 14 of the country's 18 Commission chief Faraj al-Hai-
provinces will choose members of dari singled out the women's quota
ruling councils, which wield con- system, saying the committee had
siderable powers at the regional decided to mandate one female
level. The vote is widely seen as a winner for every two men because
dress rehearsal for national parlia- the law did not take into account
mentary elections expected by the smaller parties without female
end of the year. candidates.
One of the most contentious "The elections law says that
issues is how to ensure the fair for every four winners there is a
representation of women - with woman, but the commission had
questions arising over how to another interpretation," he said.

Obama's pick to head Treasury
Dept. failed to pay $34K in taxes

Geithner's tax bill
found by Obama
transition team
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent-elect Barack Obama's choice
to run the Treasury Department
and lead the nation's economic
rescue disclosed publicly yester-
day that he failed to pay $34,000
in taxes from 2001 to 2004, a last-
minute complication that Senate
Democrats tried to brush aside
as a minor bump on an otherwise
smooth path to confirmation.
Timothy Geithner paid most
of the past-due taxes days before
Obama announced his choice in
November, according to materi-
als released by the Senate Finance
Committee. He had paid the
remainder of the taxes in 2006,
after the IRS sent him a bill.
The still-unpaid taxes were dis-
covered by Obama's transition team
while investigatingGeithner'sback-
ground. Obama's staff told senators
about the tax issues Dec. 5.
Finance Committee Chairman
Max Baucus said he still hoped
Geithner could be confirmed on

Inauguration Day.
"These errors were not inten-
tional; they were honest mis-
takes," Baucus said after he and
other committee members met
with Geithner behind closed doors
on yesterday.
Republicansenators, whomight
be expected to raise the most sig-
nificant objections, did not imme-
diately comment.
After senators met with Geith-
ner, the panel released 30 pages
of documents detailing his tax
errors - and also how he came to
employ a housekeeper whose legal
immigrant work status had briefly
lapsed in 2005.
Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid dismissed the events as "a
few little hiccups," and said he
was "not concerned at all" about
the impact.
Obama reiterated his support.
"He's dedicated his career to our
country and served with honor,
intelligence and distinction,"
incoming White House spokesman
Robert Gibbs said. "That service
should not be tarnished by honest
mistakes, which, upon learning of
them, he quickly addressed."
Geithner, plucked from his

job as president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York to
serve as Obama's treasury sec-
retary, told transition officials
and senators that he didn't know
he owed self-employment taxes
when he worked for the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund.
He failed to pay self-employ-
ment taxes for money he earned
while working for IMF from 2001
to 2003, according to materials
released by the Senate committee.
In 2006, the IRS notified him that
he owed $14,847 in self-employ-
ment taxes and $2,383 in interest
from 2003 and 2004, which he
paid after an audit. The IRS waived
penalties for those tax years.
Transition officials discovered
last fall that Geithner also had not
paid the taxes in 2001 or 2002. He
paid $25,970 in back taxes and
interest for those years several
days before Obama announced his
choice, the committee documents
showed.
Geithner and his supporters
have said his mistake was a com-
mon one for people hired by inter-
national organizations that don't
pay the employer share of Social
Security taxes.

A

R


._.

4A - Wednesday, January 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the viewsof their authors.
*FRO T.:ExDLtY
Paying their way in
Score Choice gives unfair advantage to privileged students
T he most stressful part of getting into college is, for many
students, taking standardized tests. The ACT and the SAT
are sources of worry for even the most dedicated over-
achievers. With this in mind, the College Board recently intro-
duced a policy change to the SAT so that students will have the
option of sending in only their highest test score. But the real effect
of Score Choice will be to further disadvantage every student who
can't afford the tutors, prep classes and extra chances that wealth-
ier students receive. The University should reject this change by
mandating that all students' scores still be sent.

NOTABLE Q UA E
Bored, anonymous, pathetic
bloggers who lie annoy me."
-Former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, commenting on the persistence
of rumors surrounding her and her family since the campaign, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ELAINE MORTON NATRE CA 1 EE-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
,r iine. Zk
RIAA decision the right one

0

For the past six years, each student's test
scores were automatically sent to colleges.
However, beginning this March, high school
juniors will have the ability to choose which
single SAT composite score they would like
to send to colleges. The policy, called Score
Choice, was actually in effect between 1993
and 2002 but was abandoned by the College
Board because it was deemed biased against
low-income and minority students who
could not afford competitive coaching and
multiple re-tests.
Now, apparently, the College Board has
rethought its decision. This time around,
Score Choice is being promoted as an option
that will alleviate stress for high school stu-
dents. In reality, all it will do is make it easier
for rich students to buy their way into col-
lege by obtaining that single perfect grade
and sending it in as if it was their only stab
at the test.
With this policy in place, the average SAT
score going out to colleges will naturally rise.
Colleges will then expect even higher scores.
Instead of decreasing stress, the inflation of
the average score will make getting into cpl-
lege even more competitive. And the scores
being sent to colleges will be even less reflec-
tive of students' abilities, because colleges
will only be seeing the best possible score.

What Score Choice will accomplish is an
increase in the entire industry behind stan-
dardized tests. The SAT isn't about the apti-
tude of the student - it's about how many
prep books and tutors they can buy. Policies
like Score Choice just play into the hands of
the industry, making all of its test prep mate-
rials a necessary investment for getting into
college. Such a situation is naturally unfair to
less wealthy students.
Because the SAT carries so much weight in
the admissions process, students, justifiably,
feel compelled to devote as many resources
as possible toward improving their grade
and remaining competitive candidates. Score
Choice will certainly increase the demand
for cash cows like SAT tutoring, prep courses
and, of course, retesting. In the end, it is the
College Board's bankbook that profits, not
students or colleges.
The disturbing effort to pump more
money into the test-taking industry, coupled
with Score Choice's likelihood to render the
SATs even more inflated, calls for a stand. It's
important to set aside the College Board's
weak rationalizations and call this policy
what it really is: a business growth tactic.
Colleges should take a stand against this pol-
icy and condemn it outright by still requiring
submission of all scores.

T he thousands of University you take the disc - the physical disc
students who illegally down- that the information is on - then
load music off the Internet you've stolen because the owner no
should be feeling a longer has access to that specific disk.
little more secure. But just downloading a song online
That's because last isn't technically stealing because you
month, the Record- haven't prevented anyone else from
ing Industries Asso- accessing that information. What you
ciation of America did was essentially produce a copy - a
- a trade group rep- cop. y copy that is the same as the original in
resenting the major every single way, but is still available
recording labels in to everyone else.
the music indus- ROBERT In response to this line of thinking
try - announced an comes adelugeofcriticismthatallboil
end to its relentless SOAVE down to this fear - the artists aren't
campaign of filing getting credit for their music and they
expensive lawsuits won't be able to make a living any-
against college students who engage more, resulting in the demise of the
in online file-sharing. Since 2003, the industry. But this fear is unfounded.
RIAA has specifically targeted col- Despite what the RIAA claims, record
lege students because we are unlikely sales are not diminishing substantial-
to fight the charges in court and will ly because of illegal downloads. The
instead settle out of court for $3,000 RIAA contends that every illegally
per case. downloaded song is lost revenue, but
After dozens oflawsuits broughtthe just because you downloaded a song
RIAA bad press, including cases where doesn't mean you would have pur-
the organization was found to be suing chased it. A 2004 study conducted
minors, the deceased, and even people by economists entitled "The Effect
without computers, the RIAA has of File Sharing on Record Sales" con-
finally changed its tune and is now cluded that "downloads have an effect
asking individual Internet service pro- on sales which is statistically indistin-
viders to do the policing themselves. guishable from zero."
But just because the RIAA is done rip- It may even be true that file-shar-
ping off college students doesn't mean ing is good for the music industry. The
we should forget that file-sharing is online community is a great place for
still illegal. It's still possible to get in new artists to gain exposure. You may
trouble with Internt servive providers not be willing to buy a CD by a band
because they have the power to slow or you've never heard of, but you'd be
stop Internet access for those who are more likely to download it and listen
downloading. to it - and then maybe you'll recom-
And that's a problem because file- mend this band to a friend who will
sharing shouldn't be illegal, anyway. buy the CD or go to the band's con-
It's an easy philosophical argu- cert. You might even buy a T-shirt.
- ment. Stealing music over the Internet Aside from the possible benefits
just isn't really stealing. Music is only of file-sharing, another good indi-
information, and information can't be cation that downloading shouldn't
stolen in sucha way that the original be illegal is that so many people are
information isno longer available. If doing it and very few people think it's

wrong. The vast majority of Ameri-
can society does not break laws, and
if many people are breaking them it
probably means the laws are flawed,
not the people. A study conducted by
the Solutions Research Group in 2006
found that only 38 percent considered
downloading a copyrighted song to
be a "very serious offense." Are the
people who responded to the survey
just immoral thieves? Not really. In
the same study, 78 percent of people
surveyed said that taking a CD from
File-sharing helps
artists more than
' it hurts them.
a store without paying was a very
serious offense. Fifty-nine percent
considered parking in a fire lane to be
very seripus. So it's not that people are
lawbreakers, it's just-that laws against
file-sharing are mostly pointless.
With the RIAA backing off college
students, it may be tempting to forget
about the legal status of file-sharing.
Though fewer lawsuits is a welcome
change, there's no reason that anyone
should be punished for downloading,
even with a punishment as trivial as
a slowed Internet connection. Pun-
ishing illegal downloading just isn't
necessary at all, because far from
stealing, file-sharers are actually giv-
ing musicians some positive press -
and that's more than can be said for
the RIAA.'
Robert Soave is the Daily's
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at soave@umich.edu.

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Satyajeet
Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Shannon Kell-
man, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler, Jennifer Sussex, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
KEN SRDJAK I VIE 0 T
Put morals before money.


With businesses portraying workers' unions
negatively in an attempt to get away with irre-
sponsible and opportunistic investment practic-
es, it's important to recognize workers' unions as
one of the more potenttools for defending human
dignity and equality in our world. As we experi-
ence the problems that result when investment
institutions put profits over people, we must take
strides to reverse these values in our lifestyles by
voicing our concerns to the institutions that per-
petuate them.
Sadly, the University's administrators have
continued this misconception in its investment
policy. In an official statement, Chief Financial
Officer Timothy Slottow stated that the prima-
ry responsibility of endowment investment is
to "generate the greatest possible income" and
"to shield the endowment from political pres-
sures based on our investment decisions solely
on financial factors" while making no mention of
the ethics of investment. Years prior to his state-
ment, administrators agreed - under consider-
able political pressure to divest from poisonous
tobacco contracts - that although the University
"cannot achieve moral purity in its investments,
it does not mean that it can never or should never
take a moral position on any investment." In light
of this mixed history, I hope that the response
to the University's questionable investment in
the unfair labor practices of HEI Hotels and
Resorts will be part of a trend for further posi-
tive change.
As one of the fastest growing hotel chains in
recent years, HEI makes money through a pro-
cess referred to as "hotel-flipping," where it buys
hotels, slashes labor and overhead costs, increas-
es sales, and then sells off operations as soon as
possible. To HEI executives, this "streamlining"
approach has been the most profitable strategy.
However, employees do not benefit from the profit
HEI is making. Labor cuts have exposed workers
to growing physical demands as workloads have
increased. Meanwhile, workers' benefits remain
stagnant.
In the summer of 2008, workers at two HEI

Hotels in California decided the best way to
achieve respect, safety, and decent benefits from
their employer was to band together and join a
union. Since employees have come out in favor of
electing their union leaders, they have been met
with harsh repression, harassment, and intimi-
dation from HEI management. And, since impor-
tant University endowment investors have likely
been focused "solely on financial factors," HEI's
behavior was not prevented by any condition of
financial support.
This doesn't mean that we can't begin anew.
Many universities, including the University of
Notre Dame and the University of Pennsylva-
nia, have taken steps to work with HEI to amend
labor practices and permit the workers' union
election to use the worker-preferred, card-check
election process. Over the past semester, work-
ers from California toured universities including
Michigan, Brown and Harvard while telling their
story to students. Predictably, these brave repre-
sentatives have since faced harsh interrogation
and surveillance from management after speak-
ing out.
In response to this and other complaints filed
with the National Labor Relations Board, Uni-
versity CFO Timothy Slottow has agreed to rec-
ognize and forward a petition now circulating
among concerned students. The Board of Regents
is now paying attention to how our $65 million
investment in HEI is being used. But it will be
another thing to see ifa serious follow through
will secure justice. After all, Coca-Cola came
back to campus just four months after its crimes
in Colombia and India propelled the University
to susend its contracts. The company returned
without any major revisions to its practices.
Despite a history of putting profits above peo-
ple, I hope that University administrators will not
only have the compassion and strength to resolve
this case in favor of human equality but also to
shape an institutional policy that recognizes the
dignity of all workers..
Ken Srdjak is a LSA senior.

Hope not in Obam a

While people on all sides
of the political spectrum
will debate the positives
and negatives of _
Obama's election,
one especially neg-
ative consequence
of the election has
already happened:
a reduction in
activism. Obama
supporters, includ-
ing those here at PATRICK
the University, ZABAWA
can no longer be
heard calling for
mass social change.
Instead, they're all busy scampering
around and trying to find a ride to
inauguration while turning a blind
eye to what they can do in the pres-
ent to change the world around
them. Obama has been elected, but
with a failing economy, the nation's
problems worsening and resources
stretched thin, the right kind of activ-
ism is needed now more than ever.
Sadly, it seems that, on a national
scale, those who didn't support Obama
have realized this more than those
who did. New York Times Columnist
Nicholas Kristof recently discovered
that conservatives are doing more good
than liberals. He cites Arthur Brooks,
author of "Who Really Cares," a book
about who donates to charities, as stat-
ing thatconservatives give more money
to charity than liberals, give blood and
volunteer more frequently. While lib-
erals are relying on Obama to fix what's
wrong with the country, conservatives
are turning to someone other than the
government - themselves.
Activism will be even more impor-
tant during Obama's presidency
because whetherornotthegovernment
will be able to get things done is ahuge
questionfor the Obamaadministration.
As the nation's deficit approached $1.2

trillion even before Obama's planned
stimulus spending, many legislators
- including those in his own party -
are growing concerned about money,
something the government doesn't
seem to have much of rightnow.
Last Thursday, Senate Budget Com-
mittee Chairman Kent Conrad, D-N.D.,
warned that, "The combination of the
retiring baby boom generation, rising
health care costs and inadequate rev-
enues will explode deficits to clearly
unsustainable levels." The govern-
ment's excessive borrowing to fill in
the nation's deficit has also caught the
ire of Lou Crandall,the chiefeconomist
at Wrightson ICAP, which analyzes
Treasury financing trends. About the
nation's rising debt, she stated,"There's
a time bomb in there somewhere, but
we don't know exactly where on the
calendar it's planted."
Concerns about the deficit may
especially weaken Obama's chances of
getting programs such as health care
reform passed. Obama has recently
raised the possibility of waiting for
the Bush tax cuts for the rich to expire
instead of repealing them immedi-
ately. The funds were supposed to be
used to pay for universal health cover-
age. This concerned Sen. Ben Nelson,
D.-Neb., whose words about Obama's
healthcare plan perfectly convey the
attitude of many of those in Congress,
"It's going to be very problematic to me
unless they cantell me how it's goingto
be paid for."
With less of a chance that taxpayer
money will be able to support those in
needs, activism is needed to solve the
problems the government can't. Even
here in Ann Arbor, there are causes in
need of aid - take for example the Whit-
more Lake Health Clinic, just thirteen
miles north of Ann Arbor. The clinic
was started by University of Michigan
Medical School residents over thirty-
five years ago and serves especially

those who are uninsured or underin-
sured. But today the clinic is struggling
to stay afloat, as it owes hundreds of
thousands in unpaid bills, including
$125,000 in taxes to the Internal Rev-
enue Service. Because it serves the
poor, it desperately needs donations
to survive. And while donations to the
Obama campaignmay or may notbring
about universal health coverage some-
time down the road, a donation to the
Whitmore Lake Health Clinic will def-
initely make a difference in the lives of
the 1,600 patients who visit the clinic
each year.
Dems shouldn't
let post-election
activism fizzle.
With ever-increasing national prob-
lems and the decreasinglikelihood that
Obama will be able to have a significant
effect on them, seldom has there ever
been a greater need for activism on
campus. Americans, including those
at the University, can't afford to hedge
their bets on the Obama administration
in the same way they hedged their bets
on the stock market this past decade.
It is Americans themselves who can
provide the hope that they wish for the
world. Students at the University have
even greater opportunities than most
to make changes withso many charities
and service organizations righthereon
campus. Now is not the time to break
from activism because of Obama's vic-
tory - now is the time to bring hope to
the world and be "the change you can
believe in" yourself.
Patrick Zabawa can be reached
at pzabawa@umich.edu.

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We
do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to to thedoily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 14,2009 - 5A

FiLM REVIEW
A knockout political thriller
Despite their notoriety, the Frost/Nixon
interviews seem new again in Ron Howard's
gripping dramatization
By Andrew Lapin I Daily Film Editor

Television journalism has
always been a self-parodying
medium,with the
running joke that
a news story isn't
as important as .
the way it's deliv- Frost/Nixon
ered. There was At Showcase
actually some- Universal
one at CNN who
decided "Star
Trek" type holograms would real-
ly spice up the network's Election
Day coverage. Yet as the gripping
film "Frost/Nixon" proves, there
was a time when news specials
could still maintain a modicum
of credibility. It's ironic, perhaps,
that this credibility had to come
from British goofball David Frost
and presidential disgrace Richard
Nixon.
Here's the story: After Nixon
resigned the presidency in 1974
following the Watergate scandal,
the American public was hungry
for some sort of closure. Three
years later, variety show host Frost
secured a series of interviews with
the former head of state, by the end
of which Nixon had given a sort of
tacit confession. He revealed his
private philosophy for the first
time: The president has the right
to perform any illegal act he con-
siders essential for the country's
well-being. Clearly, "essential" is a
relative term.
We all know much of this from
history class. But director Ron
Howard ("The Da Vinci Code")
takes the viewer beyond what
was televised to reveal the pro-

cess through which the interview
was hatched and executed. It
shows how Frost (Michael Sheen,
"The Queen"), a celebrity playboy
with almost no journalistic pres-
tige, was able to convince Nixon
(Frank Langella, "Starting Out
in the Evening") into agreeing to
the interviews, paying huge sums
of money out of his own pocket
in the process. Frost gradually
realizes the greater significance
of his report when he amasses a
pair of researchers (Oliver Platt,
TV's "Huff" and the excellent Sam
Rockwell, "Choke") who desper-
ately want to see Nixon confess, if
not end up behind bars.
Of course, the most exciting
and dramatic parts are the actual
interviews. Despite the absurd
simplicity of watching two people
in chairs recite lines we've already
heard, the palpable sense of con-
flict in the air is what drives the
entire picture. The interviews are
filmed as an extended metaphor for
a boxing match; when Tricky Dick
purposefully gives meandering
responses, everyone treats it like
a knockout punch. During breaks
in the taping, each side meets with
their advisers to plan their attack
strategy; the only thing missing is
the squeezable water bottle.
The producers were smart to
retain their two original Broad-
way leads. Langella unexpectedly
evokes tenderness and sympathy
for one of the most despised men
in American history, and Sheen
always gives the air that he knows
more than he's letting on. While

"Pull my finger."
the film is set up to portray Frost Nixon is made out to be a tragic Regardless of its historical accu-
and Nixon as spiritual equals, it figure in the Shakespearean mold, racy, the scene just doesn't really
falters a bit, spending too much and he gives numerous long-wind- work within the context of the
time on Nixon and not enough on ed monologues to further drive film. x
Frost. What drove Frost to con- this characterization home. In Yet "Frost/Nixon" should per-
duct these interviews in the first one bizarre sequence, he drunk- haps be granted license to portray
place, other than the thirst for rat- enly dials Frost at night, rambling its story in epic grandeur. After
ings? We never learn. nonsensically for a good long time. all, when dealing with two larger-

than-life characters, any other
treatment of the story wouldn't do
it justice. The film glows with the
same '70s cool that worked won-
ders for two of last year's best mov-
ies ("Zodiac" and "The Hoax"),
and "Frost/Nixon" should stand as
one of this year's best, as well.

ARTS IN BRIEF

Film Review
Saying 'Yes' to a classic Jim
Carrey performance
"Yea Man"
At Quality 16 and Showcase
Warner Bros.
Jim Carrey is at his best when he restrains his zani-
ness - when he's less of a cartoon and more of a human
being. "Yes Man" delivers the Carrey who successfully
merges the two - the same Carrey from "Liar Liar"
and "Bruce Almighty."
Carrey plays Carl, a man who spends his life saying
"no" to every opportunity. After attending a seminar
in which he is instructed to say "yes" to any and all
requests, he decides to do just that. Of course, his new
behavior leads to numerous crazy instances where
Carrey takes flying lessons, learns to speak Korean,
drinks enough Red Bull to stay up all night and more.
What isn't surprising is the film's warm message
about saying "yes" to life. What is surprising about the
film is how funny it actually is. Trailers make "Yes Man"
look like a generic, ho-hum comedy. Don't buy into that.
There are some big laughs to be had as well as a genu-
inely touching romance between Carl and Allison (a
luminous Zooey Deschanel, "The Happening").
This film demonstrates how a premise so slight can
still be enjoyable when told the right way. And with so
many dark and depressing films circulating in theaters
this time of year, it's nice to have one that not only
has an uplifting message, but also makes viewers feel
better after watching it. Now that's something to say
"yes" to.
SHERIJANKELOVITZ
Film Review
The remake that should never
have made it to the Earth
"The Day the Earth Stood Still
At Quality 16 and Showcase
20th Century Fox
A contender for one of the worst movie remakes in
history, "The Day the Earth Stood Still" tarnishes the
reputation of its 1951 sci-fi progenitor. The lackluster
and constantly predictable plot centers on mysterious
spheres that suddenly appear throughout the world.
An alien named Klaatu (Keanu Reaves, "Street Kings")
emerges from a sphere and delivers a grave message for
the inhabitants of Earth. Hysteria ensues.
The main problem with the story is that nearly all
of its scenes are useless, especially those featuring a
whining Jaden Smith ("The Pursuit of Happyness").
If all the expendable scenes were exised, the movie
would be about 20 minutes long. But because this
abridged version is not yet available, we must all suffer
through Smith's intolerable hissy fits for the duration
of the already banal film.
Yet another of the film's flaws is its glaring portrayal
of humans as a bunch of assholes. Between the incom-
petent secretary of state (Kathy Bates, "P.S. I Love
you") and the less than flattering representation of the
U.S. military (who shoot first and ask questions later in
every sci-fi movie), the movie tries its hand at revamp-
ing the 1951 film's theme of humans on the verge of
self-destruction. Case in point: In the remake, envi-
ronmental change becomes the atom bomb of our time.
The only redeeming aspect of the movie is its special

effects, which look fantastic and add a minute amount
of intrigue to the story. But ultimately, the only thing
worth watching during this movie is your.clock.
HANS YADAV
Film Review
An animated adventure for
audiences of all ages
"The Tale of Despereaux"
At Quality 16 and Showcase
Universal
Surprisingly charming and wonderfully told, "The
Tale of Despereaux" is easily one of the best animated
films of the year. The plot follows three characters
whose individual stories intertwine to create a memo-
rable adventure as they save the imaginary kingdom
of Dor. There's Despereaux (Matthew Broderick, "The
Producers"), a mouse who defies the expectations
of his cowardly kind and Miggery Sow (Emma Wat-
son, "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix"),
the delusional slave-girl who loses her identity in her
obsession with royalty. Finally, there's the rat Roscuro
(Dustin Hoffman, "Last Chance Harvey") who is ban-
ished because of a terrible misunderstanding.
"Despereaux" marvelously depicts weighty themes
like courage, sacrifice and redemption in the manner
that any simple children's story should. Both adults and
children alike can easily appreciate the film's inspiring
morals and brilliant storytelling.
The animation is beautiful, with heavy emphasis on
contrasting colors. Vibrant reds and oranges shine as
people celebrate a holiday in the streets, while the sewer
of Rat World, to which Roscuro is banished, is appro-
priately dingy and dark. The only downside is that the
film has a bit more dialogue than an animated film ide-
ally should. Adults may not be bothered by the lengthy
discussions, but "Despereaux" is primarily a children's
film, and kids may find their attentions drifting during
these prolonged scenes. For the most part, though, the
extra dialogue doesn't detract from the "Despereaux"
experience, and the movie remains fabulous for view-
ers of any age.
HNSr YA nAV

year in metal music

By JACK PORTER
DailyArts Writer
In the metal scene, 2008 was about rebirth more
than anything else. New blood re-energized the flail-
ing subculture, but the biggest news was of old mas-
ters rising from the ashes, in one way or another, to
deliver their best albums in years.
Metallica made the biggest blip on the main-
stream's radar, releasing its long-overdue apology
to' thrash metal fans in the form of Death Magnet-
ic. While not a masterpiece by any means, the LP
restored some much-needed faith to thousands of
lapsed Metallicans.
But the most surprising, though much less known,
return to form was mounted by the long-dead band,
Cynic. Fifteen years after the breakup that followed the
band's first album, second album Traced in Air finally
saw the light of day in'08.While drawing on jazz-fusion
like its acclaimed predecessor, second album Traced in
Air took the band's sound to new extremes.
Metallica is fighting
to keep pace.
Other industry mainstays appear to be stuck in
their own respective ruts. It's hard to still care about
pop-metal bands Slipknot, Disturbed and Mudvayne,
none of whom have sounded fresh since the turn of
the century. Critic's darlings Meshuggah and Opeth
treaded water this year with new albums that just
ripped-off their own decade-old masterpieces.
On the cutting-edge ofmetal, something altogether
different is happening. Drone, ambient black metal,
post-metal and funeral doom are all combining in the
same avant-garde constellation (nay-sayers claim the
music sounds like a symphony of refrigerators).
The Monolith Deathcult's Triumvirate points
toward another trend: the increasing use of synthe-
sizers in metal. Like Dimmu Borgir and Rammstein
before them, the band uses the guitar as just another
instrument in their operatic compositions. They use
tribal chants, strings, squelchy synths and other sam-
ples to great effect on the LP.
Metal's purity is breaking down as the old estates
of thrash, death and black metal begin to lose their
identities. Increasing hybridization means that metal
as we know it might someday dissolve into other
genres, its core lost forever. Metallica claims that old-
school metal is still relevant - it's too bad that these
best albums of the year suggest otherwise.
Arghoslent - Hornets of the Pogrom
Appropriately, this band sounds just as angry as
its name suggests. Their achievement on this album
was their successful use of major scales in their
relentless death metal attack while avoiding the
cheesiness of melodic death metal or power metal.
Keen songwriting sensibilities and lyrical solos help
ensure that it will remain one of 2008's most com-
pulsively playable albums.

Skepticism -Alloy
If you have to pick up one funeral doom album
this year (God forbid), look no further than Skep-
ticism's latest disc. As expected, the band plays up
the cinematic scope of its plodding but fascinating
epics. Sweeping chords accented by organ blasts
create the feeling of attending a twisted and demon-
ic religious service.
Sculptured - Embodiment
While Sculptured also exploits the sounds of
organs, their music is fast, furious and unpredict-
able. Non-harmonic tones crash against complicat-
ed riffs while impassioned, clean vocals take over
between growling sessions. Imagine King Crimson
joining forces with Mastodon, and you've got half
the picture.
Cynic - Traced in Air
Traced in Air is a bit of an enigma. Even when it
bangs and thrashes, its vibe is decidedly chill. The
sparkling production and processed robo-vocals
spread out what would otherwise be an. impen-
etrable wall of sound. Complex riff cycles will sat-
isfy purists, and the utopian sci-fi trappings will
entrance outsiders.
Dir en Grey - UROBOROS
J-rock superstars Dir en Grey have always been
experimental, but never like this. The band makes use
of Indian quarter-tone scales and dissonant chords to
populate their haunted sonic mansions. Lead singer
Kyo's vocals channel Faith No More's Mike Patton,
from slithering croons to rabid scat. They're the last
band on Earth that still does nu-metal right.

Dir en Grey frontran Kyo


AA

'Al


j

6A- Wednesday, January 14, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

YOU THIS
MUCH!
EE MAJORS. TOPANGA Schematic- brand New ups
Maker. electrical schematic and docu-
mentation software. immediate down- L
oad 5999 o wwwtonang e-onfwaf rem row esornmapartm

WilsonWhite
MAY
AVAIABILTY
6br/2ba 921 Dewey
$3145
5br/2ba 611 Church
$3995
5br/2ba 743 Packard
$3295
5br/2ba 816 Packard
$2995
1014 Vaughn $3195
Also Available:

READER
KNOWS
BEST.

331 Catherine
Kerrytown
6-8 person house
with 2 kitchens,
2 blocks from State St.
734-668-1100
112i

aun 2-BEDROOM apartments **5
Fall and May teases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postreatyproperties.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $349/mo. 845-399-9904.
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
02.04.2009 - START planning now! U
of M Housing Fair in the Michigan
Union ballroom; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Stop by and find your housing.
for next year...now! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com

Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest
!!HALF MONTH FREE!! !!Avail.
Fall 2009!! (Sign ap before Jan. 31st
and get one half mo. free on 2 bdrm.
apts.-up to $700 off.)
1 & 2 bedroom apts. (can live 2 or 4
people) 715 Church St. & 721 Church
St. - Incredible location! Across from
East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry.
parting, heat and water paid by land-
lord, no pets, no stmoking. Swell man-
agement company with excellent
record of personal service. We provide
first rate service! Lease with a
company that truly cares!
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. 2 fridges. front porch &
deck in back. no coin Indry. $3400. 502
Benjamin. Call 248-2f4-8708. Fall
2009.
F BM.&TEFEAPTS1
$500-$6001
SEPT. 2009
PROPERTIES
74-663-5609
4 BEDROOM APARTMENT:
To see it, isto say WOW! A Unique
and spacious apt. in a beautiful con-
verted house. Hardwood floors, high
ceilings, furnished, dishwasher, large
yard. www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
4 ELEVEN LOFTS, Brand New for
2009. 3, 4, & 5 resident lofts available
with individual housing contracts start-
ing at $655/month. Model open 7
days/week. 400 E. Washington (@ Di-
vision) Visit www.4ElevenLofts.com
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.

6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Frn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & Idry. 5 mi. walk to
Union. $2399 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM APPARTMENTS
Sept. 2009
$2400-$2800
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
954 568 2514
904 S. FOREST # 2. May 09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net
7 BDRM. FALL -09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.

OUR PATNTS INCLUOE
en& water
Excellent maintenance
Greatocaio
FREE FOD!
FREE wireless internet
24dhr atednt
THE BEST OF
ANN ARBOR 2008
734-71-268
UnieersityTowers-mi.co
CHECK OUT OUR
AWESOME SPECIALS!
University
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. valk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSESAND aps.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
AVAILABLE MAY 1 bedroom. 428
S. Division. $875 negotiable. Call
734-996-1991 for viewing.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
3 Bdrm. Apt.
1120 S. Forest
$1500 Copi Properties
734-663-5609
AMAZING 5 BDRM., 2 and 1/2 bath.
house, right on South University Ave.
Free parking. $3199/mo. 734-665-8825.
campsrealtycom
GREAT LOCATION FOR this 4-bed-
room, 2-1/2 bath house on the north
side. Fenced yard, lawn & snow care in-
cluded. 2-car attached garage. Great for
students. Located on Pontiac Trail be-
tween Dhu Varren and Skydale. Easy
access to downtown and highways.
Contact A. Rasmussen, Reinhart Prop-
erty Manager, at 734-669-5846 for
more info. View other listings at
www.ReinhartHomeRentals.com
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Greal 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
avail9abet1115 Willard. Preeprkg.
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com

0*4'ed aused
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or visit uS at
1700 Geddes Ave.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
available too! All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657
GREAT PACKARD LOCATIONS:
526 and 917, large balconies/patios,
heat, water, parking, furnished, dish-
washers, laundry. Huge 2 bedroom
apartmenat great for 3-4 people!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
ADartmentsvailable!

Iwww.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201
ONE MONTH FREE!!!
Plus get up to $500 off your first
months rent!
This ends 1-16-09
*Rent a full 2 bed, get I entry
for the drawing
Ends 1-16-09
*applies to -, and H only
734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
CAMPUS 2 BED, I BATH:
Exceptionally large apts., super loca-
tion: 51 5 Walnut St. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
Classifieds
continued on
the next page


RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, January 14, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Tel _ 36 Class-conscious 49 See 53-Across
1 Something you 3 Combustible gps.? 50 They're for the
standto lose? heap 38 Feature named birds
4 Would-be atty.'s 4 Sore spot for the page it's 51 Supports in
exam 5 Chaotic next to wrongdoing
8 Lockheed Martin situation 39 Therapist's 55 Eternities
global networking 6- Mail: online advice 56 Zone
subsidiary service 40 Auto financing 57 Secondhand
14 Yale, for one 7 Half a fly? co. 59 Dr. who created
15 Space chimp 8 Rod in 45 Org. for drivers? the G-funk
16 Take tothe air Cooperstown 46 Loses, as a tail sound
17 Event for 9 Pick up by the 47 Home (in) 60 Big bang cause
unloading ears? 48 Letter flourish 61 Tilling tool
damaged goods 10 Soccer great
19 More authentic Hamm ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Supposing 11Amphibian that ATOM TE N S D E C A F
21 Pay- -dew can regenerate A M O I E E R S E
22 Rhine eer its limbs CAM0 IDE A E AII
23 One bad thing 12 Starting squad T R I 0 T U S K F O R T E
after another 13 Robe fabric A T T R ACT I V E D E A L
27 Homebuyer's 18 Startnto morph? P E N O N E
concern 21 Church fixture B EIC OM I N G O L D D S T
30OGp. thaI 24_Brth
sup rted the 25Relanes E L H I C 0 N E M O T E
31-Across 2 Pradowork GRANT LES D O Z E D
Wmendment 27 Red inside A OR TA T EE S N ER D
31See Across aeJumpwitha N Y T P R E T T Y P E N N Y
32 Send packing twist S SE S N Y
33 Kindof cross 29 Like most F E T C H I N G S T I C K S
34 Aftemoon prayers
refresher 33 Hospital room A C H O O E L L E LEA D
37 Visa feature rentals S H I N E T E A M I N T O
41 Splits toform a 34Vunits T O N E S S E W S P O E T
bond 35 Operatic slave xwordeditor@aol.com 01/14"9


Wilson hi1e
rail 2009
Avrailability:
12br/4ba 1307 S. State
$5500
9br/ 4ba 916 Sybil $5775
8br/4ba 1302 S. Forest
$3750
7br/2ba 335 E. Ann $4195
7br/ 2ba 222 N. Thayer
$3995
8br/3ba 1814 Geddes
$3795
6br/3ba 804 Lawrence
$3545
6br/2ba 705 8. Division
$3925
6br/2ba 507 Walnut $3995
8br/3ba200 Packard $3495
EnGy other Efficienoy
to I B evoloable tool


6 BDRM. FALL 09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 nee. plus util. 734-996-1991.

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one businessaday prior0to publicatic
Rates: $4.30 per line for thefirst issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts arec
contact our staff for details * Students may receive a 25% discoun
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizations
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privi
have been established * We accept Visa, Mastercard, American E
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display advertising, pleasE
of our Account Executives
1day 2 days 3cdays 4 days 5
2 lines 860 12.90 17.20 21.50 25

42 B~asebal execs
43 Wrter LeShan
44 Hamoi holiday
45 Shade ofngreen
46 Pound et at
48 Variable price
structure
52 Wantad abbr.
53 Wh 49-Down,
"Spanglish"
actress
54 Bedroom piece
58 Lively
movements
6 960s-70s
group, and this
puzzles theme
62 Going nowhere
63 Do, forone
64 Society column
word
65 Seafood entrees
66 Hardy heroine
67 Sorry
DOWN
1 The if'in"He
likes it! Hey
Mikey!"

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 16 11 12 13
14 15 16
17 t8 19
26 21 22
2a za z5 26
2l 28 29 30 M 31
a2 as 34 35 36
a7 38 39 a0
41 42 43
44 45 48 47
48 49 66 51
62 53 54 55 56 57
58 59 60 61
62 6a 64
65 66 67

i

n Classification:
010 Lost Found
020 - For Sale
available- 025 - Parking
t when 030 - Automotive
il, non- 040 Computers
leges
045 Technology
xpress,
call one 050 -Furniture
060 For Rent
070 - Sublet
days 080 - Services
.80 090 - Help Wanted
170 093 - Summer Employment
.60 095 - Chid Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
he iabiit 5!
ecified issue 123 -Websites
nsertion. iD 125 - Music
)f publcation.
ended at a 130 - Roommates
efunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
ad has not yet
ements for 150 - Personal
r items prior to 160 - Pets

3 lines 12790

19.35 25.80 32.2,

4 lines 17.20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wl be accepted. Misprints: TI
TMD for falure to publish an advertisement for any reason, or for publshing incorrect ads in a sp
shall be limited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not more tathae cost of one incorrect i
will be responsible for classified advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first dayo
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates ines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be ext
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. R
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadlne, but no refund w l be given unless the
been publshed. Refusal: All ads are subject to editing and approval. We do not publish advertis
resale of tickets at more than face value TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail orde:
accepting advertising.


. 1 . . . ! - 1 I - !- - I_ _!

By Michaelr angwad
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

01/1419

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 14, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January14, 2009 - 7A

BATTERIES
From Page 1A
In a University press release dis-
tributed Monday, David Munson,
dean of the College of Engineering,
said he was happy with the part-
nership and that he looks forward
to the coalition's work.
"The coalition comprises a
unique industrial/university part-
nership dedicated to the study of
batteries for vehicles," he said. "We
are extremely pleased to be in the
position to speed realization of the
vehicles that society needs."
Ann Marie Sastry, Engineer-
ing professor and co-director of
the ABCD, echoed Coleman and
Munson's comments, saying in
the press release that the partner-
ship would increase the project's
impact.
"Working with GM allows us to
make an impact on large-scale pro-
duction electric drive vehicles and
develop regularized simulations
and knowledge-based method-
ologies for using batteries in drive-
trains," she said.
Sastry said batteries are the most
important part of an electric drive-
train, but few studies on automotive
applications have been conducted

due to the limited role of batteries
in gas-powered vehicles.
"Our shared ambition is to see
electrified drivetrains in a large
number of vehicle types and appli-
cations," she said.
The partnership was announced
on the same day GM shared its
plans to build a lithium-ion battery
factory near Detroit. When the
factory opens, it will employ more
than100 people.
GM also announced on Monday
it will open a new 31,000-square-
foot laboratory for battery testing
and research in Warren.
The University currently part-
ners with GM on other initiatives,
including the Energy Systems Engi-
neering Program, which allows
students to intern at GM and GM
employees to enroll in classes at the
University.
"We are deliberately creat-
ing linkages between educating
knowledge works and developing
the underpinning science and tech-
nology," Sastry said. "We want to
build this infrastructure so that
we can produce meaningful tech-
nical results that move quickly to
application and make sure that the
University plays its needed role in
vehicle electrification research and
education."

Ash clean-up

Members of the Michigan Student Assembly convene for their first meeting of the new semester.

still unfinished Fm _Page 1A

State of Tennessee
demands answers for
$1M a day mop up
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -
The state of Tennessee demanded
answers and cooperation yesterday
from the nation's largest public util-
ity in the aftermath of a massive
coal ash flood that is costing the
utility $1 million a day to mop up.
"I am committed to making sure
this spill is cleaned up and doing
everything we canto prevent any sim-
ilar situation in the future," Gov. Phil
Bredesen said in a statement. "I'm
also committed to make sure Tennes-
see taxpayers don't foot the bill."
Bredesen promised greater state
oversight when he visited the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority's Kingston
Fossil Plant shortly after the Dec.
22 spill sent 1.1 billion gallons of ash
and sludge into a rural neighbor-
hood surrounding the plant, about
40 miles west of Knoxville.
Theenforcementorderannounced
by Bredesen and Environment and
Conservation Commissioner Jim

Fyke reaffirms and formalizes that
process, Fyke spokeswoman Tisha
Calabrese-Benton said.
"TVA has been cooperative up to
this point and we are hopeful that
continues under the order," Cala-
brese-Benton said.
The order requires the federal
agency's full cooperation in assess-
ing the mishap and developing a
corrective action plan within 45
days to "ensure safe operations in
the future." The order also says
TVA will reimburse the state for
overseeing the cleanup and could
be subject to fines later.
"TVA is committed to clean-
ing up and restoring this site, and
to managing all of its facilities in
a manner that will prevent a simi-
lar situation," according to state-
ment from TVA, which operates 11
coal-fired plants, including eight in
Tennessee. "TVA agrees with the
(order's) priorities and is working
hard to achieve them."
In a second incident, about
10,000 gallons spilled from a gyp-
sum waste pond at TVA's Widows
Creek power station in northeast-
ern Alabama on Friday.

events transpiring in Gaza and
what the assembly can do about it.
LSA junior Andrew Dalack, co-
chair of SAFE, urged the assembly
to pass the resolution in the hope
of contributing to a "peaceful reso-
lution to the current situation in
Gaza."
He said that the issue was very
emotional and contentious for
many University students and
members of the Ann Arbor com-
munity,butthatpeople should con-
tinue to learn about the situation.
"At the very least, we can all
take the time to take a step back,

read a couple books and try to
engage each other in meaning-
ful and productive conversation,"
Dalack said.
Rep. Andrew Chinsky said that
MSA's actions related to the con-
flict should be limited to educa-
tional purposes, and that it was up
to other student groups to take a
position on the issue.
Any political decisions, he
said, were out of the assembly's
boundaries.
"This is what the United Nations
does. This is what the United States
State Department does," he said.
Rachel Goldstein, the chair of
AMI, who was present at the meet-
ing but opted not to speak, agreed
with Chinsky's sentiment in an

e-mail to the Daily.
"A resolution regarding an inter-
national conflict has no place in
the policies of our student govern-
ment," she said. "A vote in favor of
the proposed resolution demonizes
one people and state over another
in a conflict that is far too complex
for a 'yes' or 'no' vote."
Baydoun defended the prem-
ise of the resolution, referencing
many times in the history of the
assembly, when MSA took bold
positions on national and global
issues.
"I don't want us to be scared
of what our potential is," he said.
"And I also don't want us to be
reckless."
When it came time for local

residents to give their input on
the resolution, some of the speak-
ers implored the assembly to take
action against what they depicted
as a humanitarian crisis in the
region.
Mozhgan Savabieasfahani, who
is a research fellow at the Univer-
sity, appealed to the assembly to
"boycott" Israel, although she did
not elaborate on the details of such
a boycott.
"To continue to say 'peace' while
we throw bombs atpeople is lunacy,"
she said. "Everybody in this world
can see that we are lunatics. We are
immoral, barbarian lunatics."
The assembly plans to vote
on the resolution at next week's
meeting.

Investigators call for closer
look at. Great Lakes pollution

POOL BEATY/AP
Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich speaks at a news conference in Chicago last Friday.
11. Gov. bested
Dem. leadership

Eight-year
investigation reveals
only 'sketchy' data
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. (AP) -
Wrapping up an eight-year inves-
tigation of possible links between
industrial pollution and health
risks in the Great Lakes region,
federal researchers yesterday said
information was too sketchy and
called for more study.
The Agency for Toxic Substanc-
es and Disease Registry, part of
the U.S. Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, released the
final version of a much-scrutinized
report after drawing criticism
from a scientific review panel and
accusations of a cover-up from
members of Congress.
"The data we have, as good as it
GUPTA
From Page 1A
an excellent student. During his
senior year, Gupta participated in
debate, theater and student leader-
ship. He was named valedictorian
of his class. Aware of his potential,
his peers chose him as the Most
Likely to Succeed in his senior
year.
"We certainly all feel it's a great
honor to have one of our alumni
recognized by the Obama adminis-
tration," Lawrence said.
GREEK HOUSES
From Page 1A
events, social events, and a mini-
mum number of brothers in the
colony before we will become a
recognized chapter of Sigma Chi,"
Mathews said.
Sigma Chi will be participat-
ing in both this winter and next
fall's recruitment along with all
other IFC fraternities on campus.
However, winter recruitment will
be slightly more challenging since
Sigma Chi don't have a house yet.
Next fall, the fraternity plans on
moving into the house that is cur-
rently being used by Sigma Phi
Epsilon.
"It will be slightly difficult for
us to recruit because we don't
have the use of the house yet,"
Mathews said. "So we will be
doing our recruiting from the

is, isn't complete," said Dr. Howard
Frumkin, director of ATSDR and
the National Center for Environ-
mental Health. "We hope we can
focus researchers and decision
makers on the need for targeted
and careful data collection ... so we
can get a more complete picture."
The agency began its review in
2001 at the request of the Interna-
tional Joint Commission, a U.S.-
Canadian agency that advises the
two nations on the Great Lakes
and other boundary waters. The
commission wanted an analysis of
health hazards in 26 "areas of con-
cern" - rivers, harbors, lakes and
other locations severely degraded
by toxic pollution.
But the report said available
data doesn't allow firm conclu-
sions about cause-and-effect ties
between pollution and illness in
the region.
Jim Hanson, Gupta's Advanced
Placement chemistry teacher in
high school, said Gupta was one of
the best students he has encoun-
tered in his 41 years of teaching.
"You could tell that Sanjay had
high level achievement goals, and
he applied himself to the fullest in
reaching these goals," Hanson said
in an e-mail interview. "He was
never afraid to do that little extra
to be successful."
While studying at the Univer-
sity, Gupta wrote opinion pieces
for The Michigan Daily about
public health policies. He later
Union, Pamner Commons, and the
recreation buildings on campus."
As for ATO, the other frater-
nity returning to campus, this
semester will be spent expanding
and participating in winter rush.
Their housing situation is still yet
to be determined as well.
Mary Beth Seiler, director
of the Office of Greek Life, said
before sororities are invited back
to campus, the Panhellenic Asso-
ciation works with chapters indi-
vidually to figure out the details of
their return.
Seiler said Alpha Epsilon Phi
completed this process last year
and is now recruiting new mem-
bers.
"Alpha Epsilon Phi is consid-
ered a full chapter in the Panhel-
lenic Association," Seiler said.
"They did their process this fall
and they are just continuing to
recruit to bfild the chapter."

Statistics on problems such as
cancer and birth defects cannot
be matched with pollution data
because of differences in location
and timing, it said.
Earlier drafts had attempted
to do so, correlating countywide
health figures with environmen-
tal measurements from larger
or smaller areas. CDC officials
dropped such linkages from the
final report, saying they were
flawed.
"Good science matters," Frum-
kin said in a written statement,
saying the early versions "could
have led to incorrect conclusions."
The Institute of Medicine,
an independent scientific panel,
raised the same concern last Sep-
tember in a critical review of the
preliminary drafts.
Rep. Bart Stupak, chairman of
the House Energy and Commerce
returned to the University to
attend graduate school, Gupta
met his wife Rebecca Olson.
Today they have two daughters:
Sage and Skye.
After writing a series of
articles concerning health sys-
tems that were published in The
Economist, Gupta received a
White House Fellowship dur-
ing the Clinton administration.
Throughout the year-long fel-
lowship he wrote speeches about
health care for First Lady Hillary
Clinton.
Besides reporting for CNN,
Alpha Epsilon Phi didn't par-
ticipate in recruitment last fall
because it is still going through
the process of returning to cam-
pus. Next fall the chapter will
be able to participate in formal
recruitment and will be moving
back into their house on Church
Street, which is currently occu-
pied by the Alpha Epsilon Pi fra-
ternity.
The Zeta Tau Alpha sorority is
just now beginning the process for
its scheduled return in the fall.
Seiler said the details of Zeta
Tau Alpha's return have yet to be
determined, but the sorority is
definitely coming back to campus.
"I met with some of their
National Executive Directors in
December and they are going to
be sending some representatives
to campus to meet with the Pan-
hellenic councils and we will work
out the detailsf she said.

Subcommittee on Oversight and
Investigations, began looking into
the CDC's handling of the report
last year. In a statement Tuesday,
he contended it was reasonable
to link the region's pollution and
health problems.
"It doesn't take a scientist to tell
you thatthetoxinsdiscussed inthis
report are detrimental to human
health and need to be cleaned up,"
said Stupak, a Michigan Democrat.
"It is almost as though CDC is try-
ing harder to protect the polluters
than the victims."
The study presented other chal-
lenges thathelp explain why it took
so long, Frumkin said.
ATSDR had evaluated 146 haz-
ardous waste sites around the
Great Lakes. But they were not
identical to the 26 "areas of con-
cern," although there was some
overlapping, Frumkin said.
Gupta serves as a correspondent
for CBS, writes a column for Time
magazine and has published Chas-
ing Light, a New York Times best-
selling book about immortality.
He is also an assistant professor of
neurosurgery at Emory University
School of Medicine.
Upon learning about Gupta's
potential appointment as surgeon
general, CNN released a state-
ment that read in part, "his on-air
reporting has been on health and
wellness matters and not on health
care policy or any matters involv-
ing the new administration."
Stephenie Lazarus, Panhel's
Vice President of public relations,
said now is the perfect time for
the chapters to be returning to
campus.
"It lessens the load for other
chapters and allows them to con-
tinue to provide a quality experi-
ence in a smaller, more intimate
environment for their members
that they otherwise might not be
able to do if the number of mem-
bers they had was larger," she
said.
Lazarus added that bring-
ing the chapters back provides
a chance for the campus to be as
diverse as possible.
"We really want to make our
campus more diversified, to bring
out as many chapters as we can
sustain and now we have the ability
to do thatbecause of the amount of
girls interesting in going through
recruitment in the fall," she said.

Despite uphill battle,
Blagojevich's pick
eventually seated
SPRINGFIELD, Iii. (AP) - On
one side stood the president-
elect, 50 Democratic senators on
Capitol Hill and just about every
politician in Illinois. On the other
side was Gov. Rod Blagojevich,
criminal defendant and national
punchline.
Guess who won?
Blagojevich outfoxed everyone
who had warned him no to try to
fill the Senate seat he is charged
with trying to sell.
Despite the scandal around him,
the governor got his way by star-
ing down his opponents with the
perfect pick: Roland Burris, a black
politician who, had an unblemished
reputation and big ambitions, guar-
anteeing he would fight tirelessly
for the seat.
Blagojevich also had Illinois law
on his side. Moreover, his choice
put Democrats in the sticky posi-
tion of trying to d*ay entry to the

man who would become the cham-
ber's only black member - in the
seat that last belonged to Barack
Obama, no less.
"it did take a kind of perfect
storm, of a governor who is incapa-
ble of having scruples and a nomi-
nee incapable of shame, to go ahead
with it," said Mike Munger, chair-
man of political science at Duke
University. "This was the last card
Blagojevich had to play. At least he
gets to do something and thumb his
nose."
In the end, the Blagojevich-Bur-
ris combination proved to be such
a distraction that Obama himself
reversed course and signaled to
Senate leaders that they should seat
Burris. Finally, on Monday, they
said they would.
Exactly whyiBlagojevich appoint-
ed someone and what he hoped to
accomplish are something of a mys-
tery to some political observers.
The Democratic governor still faces
federal corruption charges. And
he has been impeached and faces a
state Senate trial later this month
that could get him thrown him out
of office,


A

8A - Wednesday, January 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN'S MIDSEASON

Wh
Blue-
The answer te
fate of their
one can figu
Many members of
women's basketball
explain the Wolve
problem. Some say i
fidence, others say tl
to be more aggressi
gan coach Kevin
Borseth isn't T
quite sure: R
Why can't this -
team win on the
road?
Senior forward M
recognized the tea
home after its 52-44
nois on Jan. 8. But
doesn't know wher
goes when the Wol
away from Crisler Ai
Ignoring Michiga
ries in its neutral-si
ing tournament
in Mississippi,
the team is 1-6,
this season on the
road. At home, the
Wolverines have
posted a solid 6-1
record.
Even at the
beginning of the
year, Michigan's
problem on the
road was foreshad-
owed. Seniors Carl
Jessica Minnfield re
team at Big Ten M
both acknowledged
their team would li
the 3-point shot this
And by those s
Wolverines certainly
the road.
Michigan has bee
much on the outside
of driving to the bas
the ball into the post
The solution to M
woes will be to open
possibilities. The Wt
to utilize their pos
give opponents diffe
Junior center Kris
senior forward Steph
more than capable o
load in the post.
And outside of
ditional post play
designs the offense
player has the oppo
the ball and score in:
If the Wolverine

at's causing
's road woes?

4

PROGRESS REPORT

iay decide the tently attack the paint away from
season, but no home, they will see the results.
re it out. At home, the team doesn't rely on
'the Michigan its 3-point shooting like it does on
have tried to the road. Making opponents guard
rines' biggest against both threats is the differ-
t's about con- ence between road failures and
he team needs home successes.
ve and Michi- When more shots are taken in
the paint, it opens up more 3-point
'IM opportunities. On the road, Michi-
OHAN gan hadn't been attacking defens-
Women' es who were applying pressure.
)n Woken S But something must have clicked
naketboll Sunday.
lelinda Queen Michigan trailed by as much as
m's hustle at 18 in the second half at Wisconsin.
win over Illi- The Wolverines came out deter-
she said she mined to gain the momentum
e that hustle and crawled their way back into
verines travel the game. They fell short, losing
rena. by four points, but it was a far cry
n's two victo- from earlier, blowout road losses.
te Thanksgiv- "Well, we got down near the bas-
ket," Borseth said.
"They fouled us
(and) we got a lot
S can t ignoreof free throws dur-
ing that stretch.
We kept getting to
wants to win the rim ... and we'd
make it."
on the road. Dribblepenetra-
'tion and pushing
the ball into the
paint propelled the
Wolverines' come-
y Benson and back, and exemplified how Michi-
presented the gan can find positive results by just
edia Day, and getting closer to the basket.
the fact that Maybe Michigan found the key
ve and die by to success on the road, but who
season. is going to lead the Wolverines
tandards, the there?
yhave died on Minnfie d is Michigan's stron-
gest hail handler and the team's
en relying too floor general, and she has also
e shot instead posted up in the paint at times.
ket or getting For the Wolverines to succeed on
t. the road, she needs to continue to
ichigan's road incorporate the main post players
n its offensive into the offense and also penetrate
olverines need the lane herself.
t players and At 2-3 in conference play, Mich-
rent looks. igan is now eighth in the Big Ten
ta Phillips and standings. The conference is con-
iany Skrba are sidered one of the weakest in the
f carrying the nation, so it isn't likely more than
four teams will make the NCAA
the two tra- Tournament.
ers, Borseth The Wolverines may have found
so that every the answer on the road Sunday in
rtunity to get Madison. But if they don't con-
side. tinue to build on it, just knowing
s can consis- what to do won't mean much.


I

OFFENSE:
In Beilein's first season, his
team struggled with the ball, to
say the least. But this year's squad
is the second-best scoring offense
in the Big Ten, pouring in 10 more
points per game than last year. But
an offense that lives and dies on
3-pointers will have its problems.
Michigan is eighth in 3-point per-
centage and 10th in total field-
goal percentage in the Big Ten. To
improve, sophomore Manny Har-
ris must continue to drive and kick
out to open shooters when defens-
es collapse on him in the lane. But
overall, Beilein's offense is finally
startingto click.

DEFENSE:
This issprobably the Wolverines'
most glaring weakness. They are
10th in the Big Ten in rebounding
defense, eighth in field-goal per-
centage defense and ninth in scor-
ing defense. If Michigan plans on
making a run in March, it'll have
to shore up some of its shortcom-
ings to stay competitive in the
hard-nosed Big Ten. But there is a
bright spot. When the aggressive
1-3-1 zone 'D' is in top form, the
Wolverines can force tons of turn-
overs and convert them into easy
transition baskets, which is some-
thing Beilein's defense has always
emphasized.

1

Junior DeShawn Sims is a key offen-
sive contributor for the Wolverines.

KtISTA BOYD/taily
Michigan has struggled, tiving op mare
than 62 points per game.

U NONCONFERENCE:

U CONFERENCE:

4

You can't say nonconference
without UCLA and Duke. These
two upset victories, both against
then-No. 4 teams, resuscitated the
Wolverines'-program and invigo-
rated a fan base desperate for suc-
cess. And have you been to Crisler
Arenalately?Attendance numbers
are higher than in past seasons.
But aside from the two wins in the
MAN NY:
It's hard to be critical of
"Manny Fresh." He has lived up to
his Preseason All-Big Ten Team
selection. Harris is the Big Ten's
second-leading scorer and third-
leading rebounder, but even more
impressive is his ability to dish the
ball. Playing more small forward
this season, Harris is fifth in the
conference in assists (the top four
are point guards). It's clear he has
adapted to the position well. Sure,
he's had a couple poor shooting
performances and still struggles
with turnovers, but his play so far
has him in the running for Big Ten
Player of the Year.

national spotlight, the Wolverines
played a cupcake schedule. East-
ern Michigan, Florida Gulf Coast
and then-winless North Carolina
Central brought down Michigan's
RPI. But all lowly no-name teams
aside, when Selection Sunday rolls
around, those early statement
wins will highlight an impressive
resum.

The Wolverines' 3-1 Big Ten
recordis alittle deceptive. Illinois,
Indiana and Iowa, Michigan's
three wins, are a combined 3-7
in conference play. And the Wol-
verines have benefited from play-
ing three games at Crisler Arena.
They have rebounded nicely since
Dec. 31's loss to Wisconsin, rip-
ping off the three straight wins.

But Michigan's only dominant
performance of the conference
season was last Sunday, when the
team flexed its defensive muscles
and held Iowa to 49 points. The
Wolverines earn a passing grade
simply because they've won the
games they were supposed to win
but haven't upset a conference
contender.

U BIG TEN TITLE HC

Michigan State is good - like,
really good. The Spartans are still
favorites to win the conference
crown, but right now, spots two
through nine are toss-ups. For the
first time in a while, the Big Ten is
actually competitive. It's early, and
you'll have to wait a couple weeks
to see legitimate top contenders
emerge. But with a 3-1 conference
record already, the Wolverines
are right in the mix to finish near
the top. They'll need to steal some
wins on the road and protect their
home floor, but at this point, more
losses than wins in the conference
would be a disappointment.

4

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY
SPORTS?
E-MAIL
REID@MI4ICHIGANDAILY.COM.
YES, IT'S THAT SIMPLE.

SAID ALSALAH/Daly
"Sophomore Manny Harris leads Michi-
gan with more than 18 points per game.

CHRIS SWEoA/AP
Senior Goran Suton has been a domi-
nant paint presence for the Spartans.

BIG DANCE HOPES:

OVERALL:,-

At this point in the season,
the Wolverines are sitting pret-
ty. Michigan has three wins
against teams with RPIs in the
top 40, and its "worst" loss was
on the road against Maryland
- the same Terrapin team that
walloped Michigan State 80-62
on Nov. 27. Also, no team in

college basketball has a pair of
bigger wins than over two elite
teams like UCLA and Duke. If
Michigan can go .500 or above
in conference play and grab a
win in the Big Ten Tournament,
the Wolverines should be a lock
for the Big Dance, where they
haven't been since 1998.

If one tells you he or she pre-
dicted Michigan would be where
it is right now, he or she is a bold-
faced liar. Michigan matched last
year's win total before the confer-
ence season even started, and it
shows no signs of slowing down.
Michigan's may not be an elite
national-title contender, or even

a conference-title contender, but
there's no denying that Beilein's
squad has improved by leaps and
bounds. For a program that hasn't
made the NCAA Tournament
since 1998, fans can't ask for more
than a 13-3 record and a reason to
get excited about Michiganbasket-
ball again.

4

Grades issued by: Jason Kohler, Ruth Lincoln, Alex Prosperi and Andy Reid
Blueliners make for dominant duo

4

Acting captain
Summers teaches
freshman Burlon
the ropes
By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
After the Michigan hockey
team's 5-1 win over Miami (Ohio)
on Friday, junior acting captain
Chris Summers was quick to
explain his and fellow linemate
freshman Brandon Burlon's offen-
sive success from the blue line.
The two defensemen notched
the game's first two tallies, which
gave the Wolverines an insur-
mountable lead less than four
minutes into the first period on
their way to posting a combined
plus-six rating. Burlon also added
an assist.
Summers's explanation?
"I teach him everything he
knows," Summers said with a
laugh, while Burlon sat a couple
chairs away. !

The chemistry between the
duo has translated seamlessly
onto the ice. Burlon and Summers
have skated together for the past
eight games, amassing an impres-
sive five goals, nine assists and a
plus-21 rating.
"You have two intelligent play-
ers, first off, and they both obvi-
ously like to join the rush and get
involved offensively," Michigan
assistant coach Billy Powers said.
"But they're doing a good job of
playing off each other.
"No question that they've
sparked. They've hit it off, chem-
istry-wise."
Burlon's and Summers's offen-
sive games naturally complement
each other - Burlon prefers to
puck handle, while Summers likes
to skate with the puck. And Pow-
ers said each is very good at play-
ing it safe defensively when the
other joins the offensive rush.
But while their chemistry has
resulted in very solid offensive
statistics, their back-and-forth
communication has also helped
the rest of the team's defensive
play eacti weekend.

"That's really evident during
the game," Summers said. "We've
practiced it in practice, and we try
to talk to (goalie Bryan) Hogan
and the centers, make sure every-
one's talking when we have to go.
We play off each other."
At the very beginning of the
season, both Burlon and Summers
were thrown into unexpected
situations. Burlon, an Ontario
native, got a late start to the year
when he sat out eight games with
an ankle injury.
Summers, on the other hand,
was given with added responsibil-
ity after captain Mark Mitera tore
his anterior cruciate ligament in
the season opener. Summers was
preparing to move to forward in
the preseason, but Mitera's seri-
ous injury forced the junior back
to the blue line, while also adjust-
ing to his promotion from alter-
nate to acting captain.
Yet despite the obstacles, Sum-
mers, the Phoenix Coyotes' 2006
first-round NHL draft pick, con-
tinued to improve on defense. He
now "might be the best defense-
man in this league," actebrding to

Powers.'
And Burlon, the New Jersey
Devils' 2008 second-round pick,
who Powers describes as "a very,
very, very intelligent hockey play-
er," has matured quickly as a play-
er since becoming a Wolverine.
So when the two came togeth-
er, Summers's impact on Burlon
and the resulting chemistry was
not surprising.
"Playing with a young fresh-
man, he's bringing him along,"
Michigan coach Red Berenson
said. "They're giving us a defense
pair we have a lot of confidence
in."
And Burlon is enjoying the
experience of learning from the
team's most seasoned healthy
blueliner.
"He's done a great job of tak-
ing me under his wing, showing
me the ins and outs and where I'm
going wrong and complimenting
me when I'm doing things right,"
Burlon said. "I look up to a guy
like him."
"Hopefully, we stay together
and keep doing the things we've
been doing." b

4

READER
KNOS
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

4


0

0

a

i

Personal Statement

Watching.from abroad

)oc

$ hen asked by Czechs
last semester what I
was doing in the Czech
Republic, I said I came to study
"politika," politics, my language
teacher's simplification of "public
policy."
"Why would you come to the
Czech Republic to study politics?"
a talkative barfly named Petr asked
me. "It is the worst."
Among other generalizations,
my program's administrators and
professors (all Czech) iterated to us
that Czechs were politically apa-
thetic and rarely cared to discuss
the topic. Perhaps theywere letting
us American students down gently,
before our enthusiasm about our
own presidential election pro-
pelled us into conversational brick
walls with Czech acquaintances.
Although, conversation about
the US election season was actual-
ly much less widespread among my
fellow students than I'd expected.
At times it was almost possible to
forget it was going on. One eve-
ning, I heard the names "McCain"
and "Obamu" - the quirky moniker
resulting from Czech grammar -
in the din of white noise from my
host family's ever-running televi-
sion. I renewed my efforts to probe
my host mother's view of American
politics. I asked whether Czechs
were talking about the election, if
they were excited about Bush leav-
ing, if they were on tenterhooks
about the historical precedents
being set. She shrugged noncom-
mittally: "America is far away."
I felt sheepish after my ini-
tial, genuine shock at what she'd
said. I'd assumed America loomed
FILM INDUSTRY
From Page 5B
"We're trying to really bring
people back," Rubin said. "A lot of
our friends who have moved up to
L.A. and New York are continually
coming back to Michigan for work
and auditions, and we're trying to
set ourselves up as one of the pre-
mier production companies here in
Michigan."
BUILDING THE FLEDGLING
INDUSTRY
While the immediate results
of the initiative are encouraging,
Michigan has some work to do to
reap the maximum benefits.

equally large in any European
country, carrying logistical as well
as psychological weight. My host
mother forgave my textbook faux
pas as innocent enough. But her
reservations toward talking about
politics were echoed in other con-
versations I had.
"I hate talking politics, because.
Czech politicians are terrible.
How do they get in power?" said
Petr's equally talkative friend, also
named Petr. "In France or Ger-
many, in any Western European
country, in America, if the leaders
there did the things leaders here
do - it would not happen. Here,
they go away for a while, and they
come back."
Petr 2's comment was a common
one I heard Czechs say about their
politicians: that they are corrupt,
and when some aspect of foul play
is discovered, they disappear for
six months and then return to their
positions.
"A few years ago we elect red
wine - it is like, we say, red wine
is God." Petr 2 gestured apprecia-
tively at his glass. "Then, days after
coming to power, red wine says,
'We're friends with white wine.We
like it."' "Leaving you with rose," I
joked. Petr 2 laid out his metaphor
for an incident emblematic of the
worst of the mistrust in Czech
politics - in 1998, the two major
opposing parties, who had nearly
demonized each other, colluded
after a parliamentary election that
left them both weak. "It is a knife
in the heart," he said, grimacing
and squeezing imaginary stress
balls in the air in front of his ribs.
It was in this slightly contradic-
The state's inexperienced work-
force and lack of permanent infra-
structure present problems to
filmmakers looking to shoot here.
Without sound stages and studios
in the state, post-production must
happen elsewhere after a film
wraps up shooting in Michigan. A
lack of studios also makes it diffi-
cult to shoot in the winter, prevent-
ing the industry from providing a
year-round source of revenue.
Other states with successful tax
credit programs have followed up
by developing infrastructure -
Louisiana now has six soundstages
and studios in its three largest
cities. Michigan started to take
that next step in early January,
when the Michigan Film Office

tory atmosphere that I followed our longest break of the semester.
the big news stories breaking back Students traveled far and wide,
.home and observed the ripple cashing in on the temporary, mea-
effect felt in Europe. ger benefits of the crisis.
As the financial crisis worsened, In Berlin, my friend Julia and I
my peers shared newspaper head- enjoyed the slightly weaker euro
lines that seemed lifted from a in combination with other soulful
futuristic doomsday novel. charms of one of Western Europe's
But for the students in my pro- cheaper capital cities. We ate doner
gram, the economic turmoil had kebabs, a Turkish dish popular in
its advantages. As the recession the Kreuzberg neighborhood of
spread to Europe, the dollar actu- former East Berlin, surrounded by
ally began to gain against the other appreciative tourists. A man
at the next table over, one of three
clean-cut blonds who had managed
to keep their hands and faces clean
Surrounded by of sauce, got our attention and
said he guessed.that we were from
Czechs, I had Boston (neither of us are). I asked
where he was from and he said he
an altered view was from Finland.
of breaking "But you don't know where that
is, do you?" he asked rhetorically,
U.S. news. with a slighting glint in his eye.
His undisguised scorn stood out,
buta note of schadenfreude toward
Americans was present in some
euro and the Czech korun. Meals dose in many exchanges I had with
dropped from $6 to $5, convenient- Czechs about America's economic
ly passing the imaginary line in my problems. The gist of what we
head that separates the good deals were usually asked was a kind of an
from the overpriced. excited rebuke: "What did you big
Between classes, students shots think was going to happen,
crowded the computer lab in our anyway?" I couldn't help noticing a
study center, a low white building pleasure people seemed to take in
next door to a convent on castle testing the waters of our (unaccus-
grounds south of the city, calculat- tomed) discomfort.
ing the downward progress of the Before I went home and faced
price of flights to Barcelona and reality, the financial crisis in Amer-
Amsterdam. ica felt eerily relegated to head-
A month after the Dow Jones lines, not yet to life. I felt offput
lost over a trillion dollars in one by the realization that I was tem-
day, a national holiday commemo- porarily getting by without being
rating the creation of an indepen- swept along in an American expe-
dent Czechoslovak state gave us rience. I worried that the tumult of

the election of our next president
would, from that distance, only
glance off me, too.
It felt paramount to me that I
watch the results come in on elec-
tion night, but the timing was puz-
zling. I felt desperate to grasp at
what little I could of the experience
of being in the States, with people I
loved, who I knew had been follow-
ing-the election with a thrillingly
new sense of investment. Instead
I woke up from an unluckily timed
5 a.m. living-room-floor nap when
my friend shuffled over to me, her
cell phone illuminating the dark
apartment, and said, "Obama won.
I got a text message."
I was furious - at the anti-
climacticism of the revelation,
at myself for missing a chance to
join in the catharsis I'd felt could
unify me with the people and
places I longed for back home. I
hated feeling on the peripheries
of a momentous event, a kind of
gathering of peer consciousness
I'd never experienced before and
didn't know when I would see
again, and not being engulfed in its
center. I caught a night tram to the
expat bookstore that was showing
the election coverage on a projec-
tion screen. I was crying before I
got to the bookstore and clamored
into the room full of celebrating
Americans just as Obama began
his acceptance speech. The hours
I'd meant to spend there were not
to be retrieved - time and Ameri-
ca both had marched on, and that
morning, I ran to catch up.
-Abigail B. Colodner is a writer
for The Michigan Daily Arts section.
And it, can't be ignored that
one of the industry's main advan-
tages is its glamour - especially
in Michigan, where a little star-
studded stimulus could go a long
way in counterbalancing the dis-
mal economic news preoccupying
residents.
"People can read the front page
stories and see Hollywood is tak-
ing notice of Michigan, and then
they go to the movies and see it
up there on the screen," Burn-
stein said. "You don't think people
take pride in that? 'Hey, that was
my neighborhood. ... That is my
friend's house they shot at' That's
worth something, and to not figure
that into the equation would be a
huge mistake."

announced plans to build three
production studios in the state.
"The Steam Experiment" pro-
ducer Martinez said the program's
success in Michigan can only be
evaluated after a minimum of
five to 10 years, after investment
opportunities start to take shape
and the reputation of the state as
a good filming location flourishes
among filmmakers.
"If it's not a permanent program,
that would be a waste," Martinez
said. "Those tax incentives make
sense only if there is a long-term
plan."
Both Martinez and "Youth in
Revolt" producer Permut noticed
on their sets that crewmembers
hired in state hadn't quite learned

the ropes of the industry yet.
"If you go to Louisiana today
and you want to hire someone for a
job, you have the choice of 10 to 12
people that apply for that specific
job, and they are very, very quali-
fied," Martinez said. "In Michigan,
you have a couple. So that means
that what we had to do on this film
was train a lot of people."
Both the tax credit percent-
age and the amount of funding
required to launch a new industry
are high, but Burnstein estimated
that for every rebate-eligible dollar
spent on production, three more
are spent in the local economy -
meaning small businesses stand
the most to gain from the tax credit
program.



U V U U U

w

9W


-W

7w


-w-

The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, January 14, 2009

Young blood at the Auto Show

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:.
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Hillary Ruffe
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

about it. rule
172: If opting
for library books
over new edi-
tions for class
will help you
buy a ticket to
a warm Spring
Break locale,
you're warranted
in doing so.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

By Andrew Grossman Daily Staff Writer
PHOT
A SOULFUL KIA
Nowhere at Cobo is there a more
overt and aggressive attempt at
reaching young buyers than Kia's
Soul'ster concept. Its based on
the Soul, a small, cheap SUV that
looks a bit like those boxy Scions.
The people who designed the Soul
seem to have bought into the idea
that young people raised on Face-
book and text messaging need to
constantly express themselves,
even through their cars. The Soul,
like the Scion, will go to market
along with an array of accessories
like custom rims. Perhaps they're '
envisioning a gathering of SoulsK
similar to the gathering of Sci-
ons in that strange commercial in
which hundreds of cars drive to
the desert to hear a strange hood-
ed man proclaim, "It is our differ-
ences that bring us together." Kia Soul'ster
TOYOTA: A STEP AHEAD

Our generation's coming of car-buying age should be a cause for hope as
automakers look toward an uncertain future. There were 63 million Americans
between the ages of 10 and 24 in 2007, according to an estimate from the Cen-
sus Bureau.
But we are a generation uncomfortable with our parents' transportation,
survey-takers and market-researchers say. Somewhere between South Park
and Barack Obama, we apparently developed something of an ethical streak.
We're concerned about the effects the Baby Boomers' Yukons and Tundras are
having on the places they're named after. We're also a bit unsure whether we
need automobiles at all.
Automakers know that. The vehicles on display at the North American Inter-
national Auto Show are smaller, more efficient and more connected than they
were even a year ago. Here's what companies are doing to catch your eye.
CHEVY: LIKE A... TREE?
The plug-in hybrid electric
Chevrolet Volt has become, in
the minds of many, General s
Motor's last and best hope.
That's probably a bit of an
exaggeration, but the company_.
is putting a lot of resources
into a car that it hopes will
not only make money but also
change its image from a slow,
boring automaker into a smart,
eco-conscious and fashionable
one. Executives have said the
Volt, which they hope to have
in showrooms by 2010, will be
to GM what the iPod was to
Apple. GM designers seem to
be trying to channel the iPod
through the car's white plastic
center console. Too bad Apple
doesn't sell white plastic iPods
anymore. Chevroletvolit
FORD GETS IN SYNC
The healthiest of the Ameri-
can automakers unveiled a
redesigned Taurus on Sunday.
Remember the Taurus? That
spaceship-like staple of corpo-
rate and rental fleets that you
crammed into along with your
family on vacations? This is
nothing like that. Ford's lineup
is in the middle of a drastic
makeover, and much of that is
meant to make the brand more
appealing to young people. The
best example of this is Ford's
Sync technology system. Before
Sync, automakers only put
things like navigation systems
and voice-activated cell phones
in high-end models. Ford puts
Sync in all of its cars, something
young people have told pollsters
we really like. Ford says it's soon
going to add support for "apps"
- think iPhone - to Sync. Ford Sync system

THE EDITOR'S NOTEBOOK with JESSICA VOSGERCHIAN
A look at the big news events this week and how important they really are. Conveniently rated from one to 10.

TWO YEARS FATALITY FREE
For the first time in the history of the commercial jet, two consecutive
years have passed without a single passenger death in a U.S. carrier
crash. Arnold Barnett, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology profes-
sor, estimated that it is now more likely for a child to become president
than die in a plane crash. But the question is whether Barnett took
Barack Obama's election into account. That statistic might be true for
some, but what about a female child? A gay child? A Muslim child?
Sorry, children, you're still statistically more likely to die ina plane crash.
BAILOUT HOARDING
The Independent Bank of Michigan is demonstratingthe problems
with the Treasury Department's bailout plan. Having received $72
million so it can resume lending and jump start the economy, the com-
munity bank is having a hard time finding trustworthy borrowers. After
being hit by the consequences of bad investments, the bank is under-
standably skiddish. But history shows what happens when institutions
hoard needed resources in desperate times. Riot, anyone?

3

POOR JOHN KERRY
Hillary Clinton spoke Tuesday with the Senate ForeignRelations Committee
about what she planned to do as Secretary of State. Sen. John Kerry, who
became chairman of the committee after being passed up for Secretary of
State, said that he thought it was "counterproductive and almost incompre-
hensible" that Washington wasn't more involved with negotiations in the
Middle East. Clinton responded with one of President-elect Obama's well-
used lines: the United States has one president at a time. In other words,
Kerry, accept your chair and bite your tongue. It's over. You lost.

According to one study by con-
sulting firm AutoPacific, our gen-
eration prefers Japanese cars to
American ones. Half of us would
consider buying a Toyota. Only
34 percent would consider buying
a Chevrolet. That's in large part
due to what Toyota has on dis-
play in Detroit: small, affordable
cars and small SUVs with a green
shine. Toyota unveiled a new
Prius, a word that has been almost
synonymous with "hybrid" for
the last few years. Before the car
was revealed, it sat covered with
a sheet featuring a cross-section
of growing green grass along the
bottom. Toyota's marketing cam-
paign that features a Prius made
of sticks and leaves isn't overtly
targeting young people, and that's
what makes it valuable. Still, it's
an attempt to associate Toyota
with a cause our generation cares

IBM, MSU SITTING IN A TREE
Michigan State University is to become home to an IBM center that will
research new technologies, modernize dated systems for state and local
governments and create up to 1,500 jobs within five years. If MSU is getting
9 - set up like that, we're bound to do better, right? Like when Pfizer left and
another great company swooped right in ... er, or I mean, when the Univer-
sity bought the abandoned Pfizer campus and announced exciting, promis-
ing plans ... er, well, let's hope.

The Toyota Camry
about much more than our parents. Couple that with
affordable, reasonably attractive-looking cars, our
generation seems pretty inclined toward Toyota.


0

9

W e ,n 42 -h c a i0

ABOUT CAMPUSSTR N
ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN OQUIST

THE JUNK
DRAW.I...ER

I

QUOTES OF THE WEEK
I just wanted to burn his "Long ago, I decided that
pei soi.eog om age really didn't matter and
,, as long as the ladies ... feel
and no one else."
the same way, that's fine
- RAJINI NARAYAN, a 44-year-old woman
from Australia, as quoted by prosecutor Lucy with me."

The campus flea
market
Property Disposition: where
the 'U'sells its old junk
When the Department of His-
tory no longer needs a filing cabi-
net or it's time for the University
Hospital to replace its helicopter
launch pad, the used items could
end up at Property Disposition -
the University's equivalent of the
Land of Misfit Toys.
The little-known department,
operated out of a warehouse on the
outskirts of -North Campus, sells
discarded University property to
other University departments or
local bargain hunters. w
A maze of office chairs of every
color and condition, along with
bookcases, laptop computers,
other electronics and the occa-
sional industrial kitchen mixer or
piece of lab equipment makes up
something like an academic flea
market.
Nearly anything could poten-
tially be found in the 15,000
square-foot warehouse, which is
open to shoppers Monday through
Thursday.
When asked if there were any
items Property Dispositionrefused
to accept, Sales Manager Steve
Sinelli paused, unable to come up
with a quick answer.
"I know there is something," he
mused.
Prices can range from $5 to $15
foran office chair to $15 or $20 for
a bookcase or filing cabinet. A cou-
ple hundred dollars could also buy
an upright piano marked "non-
playing," a Dell laptop or a digital
projector.
But Sinelli admitted haggling
the price down a few dollars is not
out of the question. Warehouse

regulars tend to have "a garage
sale mentality," he said. }
The warehouse is run like a,
consignment shop, as 97.5 percent
of the proceeds from the sales are
returned to the department that
sent the item. All items are sold as N.
is.
Last year, sales generated
between $1.5 and 2.5 million for
University departments.
Property Disposition is also
partly a recycling center. Univer-
sity computers, electronics and'
other items that can't be resold
are sent on to recycling plants for
proper disposal.
Property Disposition processes
about five moving trucks worthW
of new items on average each day,
Sinelli said.
While computers and office
equipment like filing cabinets tend
to be the most in-demand items,
Property Disposition also orga-r
nizes closed-bid auctions for large
or specialty items and University +11 ,--
vehicles, Sinelli said.
Last week, a Kawasaki Mule
utility vehicle and a banged-up M
Dodge Avenger collected snow in
the warehouse parkinglot, waiting
for the next auction. In the past, inexpensively furnish their apart-
items like a fire truck and a small ments, he said.
plane have even passed through Now, only a handful of bed
the department. frames priced at $25 each remain.
Property Disposition will also Students, especially interna-
make special arrangements with tional and out-of-state students
departments when acampus build- who can't bring furniture from
ing or residence hall closes. home, frequent the warehouse.
When Stockwell Hall closed last But for the most part, Property
spring for renovations, shipments Disposition clients are members of
of the bed frames and desks were other University departments or
staggered so as not to overwhelm outgoing University researchers
the warehouse, Sinelli said. who buy their own lab equipment
Sinelli said he will often work to take with them to their next job,
with University Housing to time Sinelli said.
new shipments of furniture with In an effort to encourage more
the move-in rush in the fall. inter-departmental sales, Prop-
The Stockwell bedroom sets erty Disposition also offers first
sold quickly to students looking to priority and exclusive sales hours

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Impeachments
2. Sanjay Gupta
3. Internet porn sweeps in China
And three things you can't:
1. Obama's Blackberry
2. Sidwell Friends
3. Below-zero weather

Boord, explaining why she set her husband's
genitals on fire while he was sleeping. Narayan
said she suspected her husband of an affair
after she saw him hug another woman.

- HUGH HEFNER, the 82-year-old founder of
Playboy magazine, to John Roberts of CNN about
his new girlfriends, who are 19-year-old twins

"Our government was one big pimp for the U.S. military."
- KIM AE-RAN, a 58-year-old former prostitute from South Korea, criticizing the country's former
leaders for encouraging South Korean women to have sex with American troops who were protect-
ing the country from North Korea in the 1960s through 1980s

to the departments.
Sinelli said the rest of sales
come mostly from Michigan and
Ohio residents, including a small
contingent of about 10 regulars
who faithfully line up outside
the warehouse before disposition
opens its doors each morning to
take the first crack at trolling for
bargains.
Many of these regulars buy up
items to later resell on eBay or
other auction sites to make some
extra cash, he said.
Other customers turn to Prop-
erty Disposition to capitalize on
trading trends. Several years ago,
when scrap metal prices boomed,
a surge of scrappers visited the

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
warehouse, Sinelli said. But when
steel prices plummeted dramati-
cally this fall, scrapper traffic all
but stopped.
In the last year, Property Dis-
position has begun cutting out the
middleman by occasionally post-
ing items on eBay to expand its
customer base beyond Ann Arbor.
Sinelli, who has worked at
Property Disposition since 1978,
said he hasn't seen a dramatic
spike in interest corresponding
to the state's mounting recession
but added that business has been
steadily growing in recent years.
"Every year, it seems to be
increasing," he said. "Word has
gotten out."

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
A farewell to W
After eight long years of George
W. Bush's presidency, many people
are starting to wonder how he'll be
remembered by future generations.
Here's one possibility.
This video comprises some of
Bush's most notorious gaffes during
his tenure. Considering he'll be out
of office next week, it seems like an
appropriate time to revisit some of
his classic blunders, or Bushisms, as
they came to be known.
The video starts with Bush butch-
ering the name of his State of the
Union address. "In my state of the,
my state of the union, or state, or
speech to the nation, whatever you
want to call it," Bush says, the crowd
roaring with laughter at his bum-
bling. In another clip, he states that
"America needs a military where our
breast and brightest...are proud to
serve."
In addition, Bush is shown say-
ing, "Rarely is the question asked, Is
our children learning?" And, during
another speech, he laments that "too
many OBGYNs aren't able to practice
their love with women all across this
country."
One of the only notable clips miss-
ing is when Bush creates the word
"misunderestimate." (You can almost
hear Noah Webster weeping in the
background.) Otherwise, this is a
solid tribute to our 43rd president.
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos of the week at
,mityhp /,.n_.,./rh;nai;&,

BY THE NUMBERS
Number of votes by which Democrat Al Pranken beat the incumbent
Republican Norm Coleman in the Minnesota Senate race
Total number of votes cast, in millions, in the election
Number of days it took to complete the manual recount
Source: The New York Times

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Inauguration ball - Barack Obama will be inau-
gurated as the 44th President of the United States
next Tuesday. And you'll be festering in jealousy
toward your friends who ditched class and made the
trek to be there. But you don't have to feel so left
out. Have your own inauguration festivities. Dress
up. Or better yet, stop by J.Crew and pick up some-
thing Michelle would like. You'll be stylish while
doing your duty for the nation's economy.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Many people unconsciously harbor racist views
Despite the fact that many people see themselves as tolerant and fair-
minded, they unconsciously have some racist sentiments, according to a
study published last week in the journal Science.
In the study, the researchers placed 120 non-black participants in two
groups, "experiencers" and "forecasters." The "experiencers" were put
in a room with a white and a black person, who acted out three different
scenes in which the black person accidentally bumps the white person.
In the first scene, the white person doesn't say anything after he's
bumped. In the second "moderate" scene, the white person says, "Typ-
ical, I hate it when black people do that." And in the third "extreme"
scene, the white person says, "Clumsy n****r." The "forecasters," then,
predicted how they would feel in the situation.
Researchers observed that the "experiencers" found nothing wrong
with the moderate or extreme comments, while the "forecasters" were
only a bit more conflicted abut the comments.
- BRIAN TENGEL

WRITE FOR THE STATEMENT

E-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com



V V V V

0

0

9

W.

0

w

.w

XThe Michigan Daly Wednesday, JanuaryI2009

Wensa auary 14, 2009 - The MichiganDay
onomic stimulus.
Film students, consider staying put. In-state students, rejoice in something positive about Michigan's economy. Enacted in April,
the Michigan Motion Picture Incentive Program has filmmakers big and small shooting in Ann Arbor and other cities.

BY COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Managing Editor
t is a nondescript office building, flanked by
construction equipment on a side street in
downtown Ann Arbor. The first floor direc-
tory mainly lists doctor's offices, and only
after climbing a set of bland, white stairs
does it start to look like you might be in the right
place. The second floor is just a long hallway, with
temporary, printer-paper signs noting crew and
director's offices taped near the outside of each
closed door.
But the company that has taken over the sec-
ond floor of that build i, wilie pumping mil-
lions of dollars into the state and local economy
over the next few months. Its payroll includes a
two-time Academy Award winner. And just one
year ago, it had no intention of bringing its busi-
ness to Michigan.
The movie "Betty Anne Waters," starring
Hilary Swank, will start itsseven-week shoot in
Ann Arbor on Feb. 17, though its production crew
has beeninthe areasince November and willlikely
stay until the end of April. The film is one of many
that have flooded into the area in recent months,
thanks to the passage of the Michigan Motion Pic-
ture Incentive Program. And with much of Michi-
gan's economy continuing to crumble, the face of
the state's quickly growing film industry may start
to look less like short-term, converted offices and
more like a Midwestern Tinseltown.

SAM WOLSO aiDry The Michigan Motion Picture Incentive Pro-
gram took effect in April after passing unani-
mously in the House of Representatives and 37-1 in
the Senate. It states that a film that spends at least
$50,000 in the state can receive up to a 40 percent
0e in 0 tax credit on Michigan cast, crew and production
expenditures (with the exception of out-of-state
crew members) and an extra two percent rebate
G anRps if the film is set in one of 103 "core communities,"
including Ann Arbor. The program is one of the
most aggressive in the country to date.
With the auto industry floundering and an
estimated $1.5 billion budget deficit heading
into the new year, Michigan may not seem in the
position to offer up to a 42 percent tax rebate to
film companies that won't be permanently fun-
neling revenue into the state. But proponents
of the program say it's a way for Michigan to
quickly diversify its economy in a time when
revitalization is badly needed.
Sred ovhed According to Jim Burnstein, vice-chairman of
the Michigan Film Office Advisory Council, film
revenue was about $4 million in Michigan the
year before the incentive was passed.
In just nine months after the initiative was
enacted, the state earned an estimated $100 mil-
lion in production revenue, Michigan Film Office
CEO Tony Wenson said.
"The film business is one that you can see
immediate results - and we are," Burnstein said..
"Since the law was passed in April, it's the equiva-
lent from going from 0 to 100 miles an hour."
After the initiative passed, Michigan played
M OFFICE, IMDB.COM host to movies ranging from big-name blockbust-
ers like Clint Eastwood's "Gran Torino" to indie

films like "Cherry," filmed on the Kalamazoo Col-
lege campus. And the names of actors and actress-
es who filmed in Michigan read like a guest list at
an A-list Hollywood soiree.
Diane Lane. Drew Barrymore. Christina Ricci.
Adrien Brody. Kim Cattrall. Sean Astin.
But Michigan isn't alone in luringstars and film
equipment away from Los Angeles. Michigan's ini-
tiative followed similar plans in states like Louisi-
ana and New Mexico, which both have 25 percent
tax credit programs and are considered to have
two of the country's most successful fledgling film
industries. Louisiana served as the bacl drop for
80 films in 2008.
Before tax credit programs were implemented,
the high cost of filming made it difficult for inde-
pendent producers to shoot in the United States.
Producer Philippe Martinez said he often
filmed in Canada and Eastern Europe because of
.the lower cost of production. But Martinez set up
shop in Grand Rapids from August to October to
shoot the $4.8 million thriller "The Steam Experi-
ment," a story about a scientist (Val Kilmer, "Alex-
ander") who takes six people hostage in a steam
room until the local newspaper agrees to print his
global warming theory.
Now, with multiple states offering tax rebates,
there are more opportunities to shoot in the Unit-
ed States but the difference between states' rebate
Olercentages is minimal when deciding on a loca-
tion, Martinez said.
"It's not like, 'How much would I save com-
pared to another state?' "he said. "It's more like
you don't even come to the state, as an indepen-
dent producer, shooting somewhere where there's
no tax breaks."
Even with bigger-budget and less price-sen-
sitive movies, choosing a state in which to film
requires a mixture of what makes the most eco-
.nomic and creative sense. Producer David Permut
had two films slated for production in early 2008
- the $60 million film "Youth in Revolt," starring
Michael Cera ("Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist"),
and "Prayers for Bobby," a Lifetime movie starring
Sigourney Weaver ("WALL-E"). Both films were
set in northern California, but Permut had plans
in early 2008 to shoot "Youth in Revolt" in Oregon
and "Prayers for Bobby" in Alberta, Canada.
As soon as the Michigan film incentive
passed, though, Permut moved both his films to
Michigan - and part of the "Youth in Revolt"
shoot to Ann Arbor.
The potential future economic impact of the
"Betty Anne Waters" crew in Ann Arbor was first
seen on a smaller scale July 28-31, when "Youth in
Revolt" was brought downtown for four days of
filming. The entire film was shot in Michigan, but
mainly in the Royal Oak and Traverse City areas.
Based off the C.D. Payne book of the same name,
"Youth in Revolt" chronicles a sex-obsessed teen-
ager's quest to lose his virginity to a girl he meets
on vacation.
A scaled-down, special effects-heavy crew
set up at the corner of Liberty Street and Ashley
Street to shoot the movie's third act. The action
sequence included a vintage Lincoln careening
down a hill and crashing into the Obama cam-

paign's county headquarters, which was con- ture in the city was similar to New England's.
verted into a hot dog stand named Too Frank When filming starts in February, only about 20
Sausages during the shoot. percent of the film will be shot on campus, he said,
"Ann Arbor saved us on this film, because quite with much of the movie set in a private home. He
honestly, one of our biggest challenges was to find declined to name specific University or off-cam-
an area geographically that we could create that pus shooting locations.
stunt," Permut said. "We actually even talked "We're not seeing that much exterior scenes
about shooting in a landfill at one point, trying to and streets," Sugerman said. "A large portion is in
basically build our own mountain, which would interiors. And the days we are shooting exteriors,
have been really problematic. So believe me, Ann it will be cold, so I don't think it will be that much
Arbor became very meaningful for us." fun to watch for long hours."
Even in just a few days of shooting, Ann Arbor Sugerman said about 60 percent of the "Betty
businesses benefited. Kay Seaser, account manag- Anne Waters" crew will be brought in from out of
er for the Ann Arbor Tourist Bureau, said Down- state, especially for technical positions. The movie
town Home and Garden sold sun hats and patio plans to hire local extras and possibly actors for
umbrellas during the shoot, and Sign-o-Rama some of the film's smaller roles.
printed signs for parking and set operations.
Cast and crew frequented restaurantslike Fleet-
wood Diner, Sweetwger's and Conor O'Neill's. The biggest piece of the Ann Arbor economy
"Typically, they would have caterers on site," isn't local businesses - it's the University. And
Seaser said. "But the second unit location manager with the incentive, some students are finding
who was here a month in advance, she said, '(Ann opportunities to become a part of the state's fledg-
Arbor has) such great restaurants here - instead ling movie industry.
of bringing catering to (the cast and crew) every Burnstein, who also heads the screenwriting
day, we're going to give them a per diem and let program at the University, said this is the first
them eat in the local restaurants."' year that a significant number of Michigan film
Fleetwood Diner owner Andy Demiri estimat- students are staying in the state after graduation
ed an increase in sales of at least 25 percent while instead of immediately leaving for Los Angeles to
the film crew worked around the corner - alot of find work.
take-out was ordered and one night, Michael Cera One recent graduate landed his first out-of-col-
even made a midnight stop. lege job when Burnstein referred him to "Youth in
A construction crew came to town to build the Revolt" director Miguel Arteta, who was looking
"Too Frank Sausages" fagade for the fiery crash to hire a student as his assistant while he and Cera
scene at least two weeks before the actual shoot. made changes to the script.
Demiri said by the end of the movie's time in Ann "After a few days, (the student) says-to Miguel,
Arbor, members of that crew were loyal custom- 'Is it okay if I say something? I sort of got an
ers, eating at his diner once or twice a day. idea,' " Burnstein said. "So he tells him, and it's
After "Youth in Revolt" left the city, others fol- great. It's in the script. This kid who's three days
lowed. Part of Drew Barrymore's roller derby film out of school has now played a vital role in the end
"Whip It!" was filmed in Ypsilanti in late August. of the production."
The cast members made Ann Arbor club Necto For other students in the University's Screen
their late-night destination one Friday. Necto Arts and Cultures program, the rebate money has
owner Scot Greig said the visit from Barrymore allowed them a larger budget to make indepen-
and about 20 other people was unexpected, and dent films. This summer, LSA senior Eddie Rubin
though he gave the group the club's VIP room, and University alum Debashis Mazumder co-
they preferred to walk around the club and mingle produced the film "Art House," about a co-op of
with the crowd. art students who risk getting evicted if they don't
In mid-November, when an existing metro prove they can be productive artists.
Detroit location fell through for the raunchy Rob "Art House" was shot entirely in Ann Arbor,
Schneider comedy "Virgin on Bourbon Street," mainly at the Black Elk Co-Op House near the cor-
the crew used Ingalls Mall on short notice. ner of Washtenaw Avenue and Hill Street and at
The arrival of the "Betty Anne Waters" cast and the Sigma Alpha Mu fraternity on Oxford Street.
crew marks the firstilong-term, major project to be Although the majority of the actors and crew
filmed in the city - and the first time residents and came from in state, the film hired the lead actors,
businesses in Ann Arbor can truly evaluate the production designer and sound crew from out-
extended effects of the tax incentive program. side of Michigan. Rubin said that if not for the tax
The movie, based off a true story, follows a incentive, the film wouldn't have had the money to
woman's attempts to prove the innocence of approach talent like Iggy Pop (from Iggy Pop and
her brother, who was convicted of a murder he the Stooges) or Tim Brennen ("Hancock"), who
didn't commit. She puts herself through law both had sizable roles in the film.
school and exhausts his appeals in hopes of A Farmington Hills native, Rubin said he plans
proving him innocent. to stay in Michigan after graduation to continue
"Betty Anne Waters" will be set in Massachu- his film work. Having founded the production
setts, and producer Andrew Sugerman said he con- company Deep Blue Pictures with University
sidered filming in both Massachusetts and Rhode alum Danny Mooney in 2007, Rubin said he has
Island before deciding on Ann Arbor. Though the recently been talking with several out-of-state
primary reason for shooting in Michigan was the producers, directors and investors to fund scripts
financial incentive, Sugerman said he specifically and get films into production.
found Ann Arbor attractive because the architec- See FILM INDUSTRY, Page 8B

LSA senior Eddie Rubin has already benefited from the state tax credit program, using the rebate for his film "Art House."


