I e f id~igan DaIuj

Ann Arbor Michigan

Tuesday, January 13, 2009~

michigandailycom

BULDING A NEW ECONOMY
Colleges among

A SNOWMAN THAT LASTS

few still
New projects at UM
and Michigan State
will create jobs despite
economic troubles
By NICOLE ABER
Daily StaffReporter
As the state's auto industry continues
to crumble, public universities in Mich-
igan are creating their own bailout for
the state's deteriorating economy.
Despite the nation's unemployment
rate hitting 7.2 percent in December,
the highest it has been in 16 years, and
Michigan's unemployment rate at 9.6
percent, the highest jobless rate in the
country,theUniversityofMichigan and
Michigan State University have man-
aged to create thousands of new jobs
with the development of new research
facilities.
With the $108 million purchase of
the 174-acre Pfizer Inc. research facil-
ity, the University aims to create 2,000
new jobs within the next decade. .
Ann Arbor has a 6 percent unem-
ployment rate, which is the lowest in
Michigan.
Donald Grimes, a University
researcher and Michigan economy
expert, said the Pfizer purchase means
Ann Arbor will likely experience eco-
nomic stimulation in the coming years.
"The reason Ann Arbor is doing

hiring
better is that it's got a better mix of
industries in terms of laying people
off," Grimes said. "You have a stron-
ger employment mix in terms of more
stable jobs with jobs at the University,
the health care industry and also some
in information technology."
Grimes said the Pfizer purchase will
provide jobs and opportunities for stu-
dents in the biotechnology field and
people involved in the development of
the project.
"It is a very good gamble in terms of
economic growth," Grimes said.
Dr. Jim Woolliscroft, dean of the
University's medical school, said the
development of the Pfizer campus
will promise jobs for scientists and
researchers, and provide space for
University faculty, staff and students
involved with biotechnology.
See UNEMPLOYMENT, Page 7
TH E ANN ARBOR BUBBLE?
National and state unemployment ratesfar
outpace that oftAnn Arbor.
7.2
National unemployment rate percentage
9.6
State-wide unemployment rate percentage
6.0
Ass Arbor asemployment tate percentage

ACADEMICS AND ATHLETICS
E 0.
Eligibility
changes
proposed
SACUA plan could end
eligibility oversight group's
perceived conflict-of-interest
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
Student-athletes may soon be subject to the same
academic eligibility process as non-athletes if a plan
presented yesterday to the Senate Advisory Committee
on University Affairs is approved.
At the moment, the Committee on Academic Per-
formance makes recommendations about whether
student-athletes meet academic requirements to play
sports. Under a seven-point plan proposed by Professor
Ed Rothman, chair of the Athlete Academic Advising,
Committee, the committee would be stripped of these
powers. Instead, each school or college within the Uni-
versity would now be responsible for making eligibility
recommendations.
Under the new plan, the provost would receive the
school's recommendation but would still make the
final decision as to whether an athlete is eligible to play
sports.
The recommendation comes at a time when the Ath-
letic Department is being criticized on its practice of
funding trips to bowl games for members of the Com-
mittee on Academic Performance, whose members
See STUDENT-ATHLETES, Page 7

Three University students build a snowman outside of their house near Central Campus
last night. The students planned on taking a photograph of the snowman to send along with
a visitor who was ip town frow Singapore and vianted to rememher the Ann Arhor winter.
They said that despite the snowman's flaws, they were just happy to getan opportunity to
enjoy the snow.

Dominick's owner pi

itches plan to public Lower gas prices
_____won't reduce bills

F
Pt
firs
f
At C
lar res
Street,
and ci
to disc
the rest
roundi
A p
door s
plans
roundi
could b
bed an
store, h
presen
ard Di
Tho
es are
secure(
plans h
Ann A
any cn
Joh
of the
the go

ew turn out for describe a potential construc-
tion plan that would maintain
ablic forum, the the architectural charm of the
neighborhood.
t step in approval "I'm tryingto describe an enve-
.lope n which construction and
or renovations development can take place in
keeping the texture of the neigh-
By LARA ZADE borhood," Barrie said. "That's the
Daily Staff Reporter overarching goal."
Barrie said he was told by the
Casa Dominick's, the popu- Ann Arbor Planning Commission
taurant and caf6 on Monroe to think of the project as part of
a small group of students a larger 50-year plan for the city.
ty residents met last night Barrie added that the timeline
uss plans for renovations to for construction is expected to be
taurant and changes to sur- slow due to tight budgeting and a
ing properties. complicated City Council approv-
roposed expansion to out- al process.
feating at Dominick's and DiVarti currently owns six
to convert some of the sur- properties in the area, but only
ing land into space that two of them, 812 and 814 Monroe
be used for retail property, a St., are used for the restaurant.
d breakfast, a small-grocery DiVarti's plans include an expan-
housing or office space were sion to the second-level of the cur-
ted at the meeting by Rich- rent restaurant and adding a third
Varti, Dominick's owner. level to the building for extra seat-
ugh plans for the chang- ing.
in place, DeVarti hasn't The Dominick's owner also
d a building permit and the presented plans to include a mix
have to be approved by the of outdoor seating and office space
krbor City Council before at 808 Monroe St. and additional
nstruction can begin. restaurant space at 700 Tappan
n Barrie, the architect Ave., which is currently zoned as
proposed projects, said a residential property.
al of the meeting was to 706 Tappan Ave. and 705 Oak-

Architect John Barrie speaks at Dominick's public forum Monday night.

land Ave. are also currently zoned
as residential properties owned
by DiVarti. He said he hopes to
convert those spaces for use as
business or retail properties - a
plan that will be presented to City
Council in the coming months.
For the re-zoning and property
additions to be approved, they
must comply with Ann Arbor's

zoning ordinances, which require
DiVarti to make his six properties
part of a Planned Unit Develop-
ment (PUD). Dominick's current
PUD, which was established in
1977 to join 812 and 814 Monroe St.
as the restaurant, does not include
the other four properties.
Last night's public meeting
See DOMINICK'S, Page 7

Since DTE bought
natural gas in bulk,
utility costs won't
mirror price declines
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Despite a 21-percent drop in natu-
ral gas prices during recent months,
students won't see the decline in costs
reflected in heating bills this winter.
According to Scott Simons, a
spokesman for DTE Energy, stu-
dents can expect to see a 10-percent
increase in heating costs compared to
last year.
To prepare for the expected
increase in cost, Simons said DTE
stockpiled most of its natural gas
earlier this summer - when the com-
modity was trading at more than $13
per million British thermal units in
July 2008 - a high for the year.
Natural gas ended at $5.54 per
MMBtu when the markets closed
yesterday, but Simons said consum-
ers won'tsee the effectsofthe decline
before the end of the winter season.
"If we had known we would have
waited," Simons said of the recent
drop in price.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan said the recent drop in
the cost of natural gas hasn't translat-
ed to a reduction in housingrates yet.
Logan said recommendations and
potential changes to room and board
rates would be passed on to the Divi-
sion of Student Affairs and the Board
of Regents later this spring.
"If we could forecast lower utility
prices for next year, that would be
certainlyreflected in the room rates,"
Logan said.
University Housing works closely
with Business and Finance Division's
Office of Facilities and Operations to

review their expenses as direct con-
sumers of utilities. Last year, Hous-
ing allocated $9 million of its $103
million budget to utilities expenses
in anticipation of higher natural gas
costs.
Kim Kiernan, Facilities and Oper-
ations business manager, said the
University didn't lock into any pre-
liminary utility expense rates last
year. Rather, Kiernan said experience
with past market instability caused
Facilities and Operations to use a
conservative utilities model.
"Our policies don't change, but we
are always very forward-thinking,"
she said.
Facilities and Operations has
encouraged energy saving through
initiatives like Planet Blue - a Uni-
versity outreach effort targeted at
students, faculty and staff to reduce
energy consumption.
"We don't have control over cost,
but we do have control as a campus
community on how we use our ener-
gy," Kiernan said.
Kinesiology sophomore James Bis-
tolarides, who lives with six others in
a house on Benjamin Street, echoed
the sentimentthat heatingcosts have
hit their usual highs for the winter
season. Attributing some of the cost
to poor insulation and an old furnace,
Bistolarides said he has been frus-
trated with high utilities expenses
despite recent improvements in natu-
ral gas prices.
"Our heating bill went from $30
per person to $60," he said. "We keep
nur houseiend dtn te's ridiculouis."

With grant, 'U' to study vets' transition home

$350K will go
toward researching
programs that help
veterans re-adjust
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
With active wars in two sepa-
rate countries, an increasing
number of American service men
and women are returning from

combat zones and re-adjusting to
everyday life - a process that can
involve depression and post-trau-
matic stress disorder.
To help veterans re-integrate
into civilian life, the Univer-
sity's Depression Center and
its Department of Psychiatry
received a $350,000 grant from
the Chicago-based McCormick
Foundation.
The gift is a part of the McCor-
mick Foundation's Welcome Back
Veterans program, which aims to
increase awareness of issues vet-

erans face and augment funding
for programs to support them.
Welcome Back Veterans provides
health care to veterans and their
families and assists veterans in
obtaining jobs and establishing
careers.
Jane Spinner, the project
director for the Welcome Back
Veterans program through the
Depression Center, said the pro-
gram will provide job-skills
training to veterans so they can
get better jobs after finishing
their military service.

Besides providing jobs and
health care, the center will set up
parenting workshops to help sol-
diers adjust to family life.
"When someone is gone for a
prolonged absence, they come
home and all kinds of dynamics
have changed," Spinner said.
The workshops will teach
families about different stages of
parenting from infant to teenage
years.
As part of the Welcome Back
Veterans program, the Depression
See VETERANS, Page 7


WEATHER H1I:15 GOTANEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO: 6 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

ON TEDA Y n G
The Daily on the Daily, on the Daily's website.
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS..........
Vol. CXIX, No. 72 OPINION .....
02009 The Michigan Daily A RTS..........
michigandoily.comn

......................2 S U D O K U ...............................5
.....................4 CLASSIFIEDS.... ....... ....6
.....................5 SPORTS. ...... ..............8

I



2 - Tuesday, January 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam 4

2 - Tuesday, January13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

MONDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Camps C -r Explained
They call her'Mama Sue'
As the house mom for the Chi up, and she said she spends two dents, and she has ma
Omega sorority, Sue Volz has been a months every summer at a second about those with who
second mother to hundreds of female house she owns in Kentucky. especially close.
University students for the past eight And although she lives in the soror- '-"I think the greatE
years. ity house, Mama Sue is married, with a ment I have felt here i
Better known to the 74 members son and five grandchildren. she was very troubled
of the sorority who live in the house "A married house mom, that's I hugged her. And she
every year as "Mama Sue," Volz gov- kind of rare," she said, as if remark- and said, 'Don't you
erns the 39-bedroom house with hugs ingon an unusual bird on the sorority again!'" Mama Sue s
and a warm smile. And she seems to house's large front lawn. left (for the summer)
be absolutely adored by her residents. Her husband, BillVolz -"PapaSue" in August, she cOmE
"Oh, Mama Sue?" gushed one resi- to the girls of the house - lives at the door, flying, running
dent, stopped as she was leaving the couple's home in Ypsilanti with their And I just saw the cha
sorority house. "She's great, you'll antique Mercedes and six Studebak- in her life," Mama S
love her." ers, a vintage automobile. And though wiped the corners ofl
With a big smile, Mama Sue told retired, he still works two weeks of Mama Sue said she
of the first meeting with this year's each month doing maintenance for leaving Chi Omega s
pledge class. the sorority house. she does, she said shE
"I came out of the kitchen, and they "So I do employ my husband, too," tinue to surround he
started whispering," she said, her voice Mama Sue said with a laugh. lege students.
dropping to a stage whisper. "'That's Her grandchildren, all between "I eventually woul
Mama Sue! That's Mama Sue!"' the ages of three and 12, sometimes to Kentucky and go t
Growing up in Kentucky with 14 stay on the weekends, too - but only of Kentucky," she sa
brothers and sisters, Mama Sue is one at a time, she said. dream, to go back ho
used to a big family. Most of her sib- Mama Sue said she takes a lot of be closer to family."
lings still live near where they grew pride in being a mother to her resi- CHARLES

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

ny stories to tell
m she has been
est accomplish-
s I had one girl,
... and one day,
whirled around
ever touch me
aid. "When we
and came back
es in the back
up to hug me.
ange that I made
ue said, as she
her eyes.
doesn't plan on
oon, but when
e hopes to con-
erself with col-
ild like to move
o the University
aid. "That's my
me. And I could
GREGG-GEIST

Sue Volz, house mother to the 74 sisters of Chi Omega
sorority, has lived at the sorority house for the past
eight years.
MORE ONLINE
For a video of this week's campuscharacter,
check out michigondaily.com.

T, he 1Thdp~gan Oat-ig
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-33361 734-764-45un
ga-ca@michigandaily.eom hagligmichigandailyecom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
Dews Tips news@michigandaily.com
Correctionssrarrectiosemiciadaiy.cem
Letterstthe Editor t rhedailygmichigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob Smlovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SE5NEWS E51T 00S. iliJnBern,Teo, Cr, uleo, LndySeen,
ASSSANT EWSmEDIssOuS: Mat Aaons,Bejam i n S. Chse, ,ain ede,s
Jenna Skoller,KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENO" SPOTnSEDTORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Prosperi, Colt Rosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, WhitneyfPow
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,AndrewLapin,DaveReap,BenVanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Cif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,Sam Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica VOsgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisingSales Manager
DSPLA ADVERTISIN ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Nema,Christi~e Pillips
Ryan Businski classified Sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online SalesManager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Leeeand Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichiganDaly(ssNe0745-967)is pubishedMondaythroughFridayduringthefallandwinter
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to allreaders.
Additionacopiesmay bepickedupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,startingin
SeptemberviaeU.S.malere$1. Winterterm(anuarythrough April)is115,yearlng(September
th'ough Aprilis$195.University affiliates are subect to a redn subscription rate.On-campus
shtoe s rfll dhtermanen$35.Sbcipinsm benprepaid.TheMichiganDailyisamemberof
Thn sociated Phnsand Thnsociated Cleiae ess.e

4

4

I

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Man hits friend, Vending machine Student group Admissions
friend calls cops damaged recruitment essay talk

WHERE: The Diag
WHEN: Sunday at about 10:40
p.m.
WHAT: A person unaffiliated
with the University was hit by
his friend, University Police
reported. No one was injured.
The cause of the altercation
is under investigation. Offi-
cers were unable to locate the
suspect.

WHERE: Mason Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 11:20
p.n.
WHAT: The glass on the
front of a vending machine
was broken, University Police
reported. Nothing was report-
ed missing. Police haveno
suspects.

Vistor takes
Squash player
c wublado
struck with ball auitrim -tar

WHAT: Winterfest, a fair of
hundreds of student organi-
zations and University offic-
es, departments and units to
recruit new student members.
WHO: Student Activities and
Leadership
WHEN: Today from 4p.m. to
8 p.m.
WHERE: Second Floor,
Michigan Union
Arts and crafts
study break
WHAT: Students can deco-
rate totebags using free art
supplies provided by Univer-
sity Arts and Programs.
WHO: University Arts and
Programs
WHEN: Today from 8 p.m. to
10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Ground Floor

WHAT: Assistant Prof. Ann
Kirkland to speak about the
University application's diver-
sity question. The lecture
will address the politics of
the question. Kirkland is an
expert on civil rights protec-
tions for gender, race, sexual
orientation and disability.
WHO: University Unions Arts
and Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 6p.m.
to8 p.n.
WHERE: UClub, Michigan
Union
CORRECTIONS
. A caption in Monday's
edition of the Daily ('M'
shoots for NCAAs?) misiden-
tified gymnsst Evan Heiter.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

A toy helicopter was spot-
ted attempting to smuggle
drugs into a British pris-
on, the Daily Mail reported.
Guards said they saw the
remote control toy flying over
the jail's wails carrying a small
load, thought to contain drugs.
The helicopter and its load,
however, were not found.
"Meh" will be an official
word in the Collins Eng-
lish Dictionary. The com-
pany asked people to submit
conversational, non-diction-
ary words. Popular submis-
sions included "frenemies"
and "huggles."
">FOR MORE, SEEOPINION, PAGE 4
To mark Barack Obama's
inauguration next Tues-
day, Zingerman's Cream-
ery has created "Baracky
Road" gelato. The Sicilian-
style gelato contains Michigan
milk and cream, butter-roast-
ed peanuts, chocolate chips,
dulce de leche from Argentina
and marshmallows.

4

I

WHERE: Intramural Sports
Building
WHEN: Sunday at about 10:50
p.m.
WHAT: A University student
was injured playing squash,
University Police reported. He
was struck in the face with a
ball. He was eacurced to Uni-
versity Hospital.

WHERE: Power Center for the
Performing Arts
WHEN: Sinday at about 2:50
p.m.
WHAT: A visitor fell down
the stairs at the auditorium,
University Police reported. The
person was taken to University
Hospital.

GM unveils plan to open new
Detroit factory to build batteries

4

WANT TO WORK FOR THE DAILY?
COME TO A MASS MEETING.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 14, 8 P.M.
TUESDAY, JAN. 20, 8 P.M.
420 MAYNARD ST.

Lithium-ion cell
plant to have more
than 100 employees
DETROIT (AP) - General
Motors Corp., a wounded company
living on cash borrowed from the
government, didn't behave like one
Monday as it unveiled ambitious
plans to research and assemble
lithium-ion batteries in Michigan
and picked a Korean company to
supply the cells to power the Chev-
rolet Volt electric car.
But a top executive raised the
prospect that GM will need more
federal loans later in the year if the
U.S. auto market doesn't improve,
saying that the company present-
ed a worst-case scenario to the
government last year that would
require $18 billion in loans, $4.6
billion more than the Bush admin-
istration has granted.
The battery factory, to be
opened somewhere near Detroit,
will employ more than 100 people
and be highly automated as it takes
cutting-edge lithium-ion cells
imported from LG Chem Ltd. of
South Korea and welds them into
battery packs for the Volt and other
next-generation vehicles from GM.

GM also announced the creation
of a 31,000-square-foot battery lab,
the largest in the country run by an
automaker, atnits Warren technical
center. It also said it has joined with
the University of Michigan to test
batteries at the Ann Arbor campus
and train future engineers to design
components for electric cars.
No one would say exactly how
many jobs would be created, but
the news was welcomed by Michi-
gan officials who are trying to
bring down the state's 9.6 percent
unemploynent rate, the highest in
the nation.
Tony Posawatz, GM's vehicle,
line director on the Volt, said he
expects the battery factory and lab
will bring in companies that supply
parts for futuristic electric cars,
creating another employment base
for the troubled Detroit area.
"We have enough critical mass
that future growth will cluster,"
Posawatz said.
Anexistingfacilitythatstraddles
the borderbetween Detroit and the
tiny enclave of Hamtramck will
assemble the Volt, so southeastern
Michigan is the likely front-runner
to land the battery factory as well.
Gary Cowger, GM's manufactur-
ing chief, said it's important that
the new factory be near the Volt

assembly plant because each bat-
tery pack is 6 feet long and weighs
400 pounds.
The Volt is designed to plug into
a standard wall outlet and travel 40
miles on battery power alone. After
that, a small internal-combustion
engine kicks in to generate power
for the car. The car is set to go on
sale late next year at a price expect-
ed from $30,000 to $40,000.
Monday's announcement at the
North American International
Auto Show in Detroit wasfresh evi-
dence that GM expects to survive
the recession and thrive, even as
Chief Operating Officer Fritz Hen-
derson raised the prospect of fed-
eral loans beyond the $13.4 billion
already granted to the company.
Henderson wouldn't speculate
on what would cause GM to seek
more money, but he said the com-
pany submitted a "downside sce-
nario" in December that would
require a total of $18 billion.
"We had said at the time there
could be financingbeyond whatwas
just called for in the baseline plan,"
Henderson told reporters. "It's just
speculation to say what would be
required beyond the 13.4."
GM is forecasting a U.S. auto
market of anywhere from 10.5
million to 12 million vehicle sales
this year. The market finished last
year at 13.2 million, but the fourth-
quarter sales rate averaged around
the lower end of GM's estimates.
Henderson said GM already is
negotiating with the United Auto
Workers in an effort to meet con-
cessions required by the terms of
its loans. Those include labor cost
parity with foreign automakers
with U.S. factories, something the
UAW has said it would try to get
the President-electBarackObama's
administration to remove.
But Henderson said GM is pro-
ceeding with the talks based on the
loan terms that it has in hand.
The battery announcement
was among the biggest news from
the Detroit show Monday, where
Toyota Motor Corp. ramped up the
competition in hybrid gas-electric
vehicles by showing off the next
generation Prius, the top-selling
hybrid inthe U.S.
The 2010 Prius gets an average
of 50 miles to the gallon, four more
than the current model, which
already is the most fuel-efficient

vehicle ranked by the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
The third generation ofthe hybrid
has a more aerodynamic design, but
its exterior is easily recognizable as
a Prius. Toyota said pricing will be
released before the midsize sedan
goes on sale in late spring.
Honda Motor Co. on Sunday
unveiled a new version ofthe Insight
to compete directly with the Prius,
and Ford Motor Co. has a hybrid
Fusion also due out this spring.
Also Monday, California start-
up Fisker Automotive debuted a
production version of its $80,000
plug-in Fisker Karma and vowed
to sell 15,000 of the sporty luxury
hybrids annually. The company
also unveiled a slick convertible
version called the Karma S, which
it expects to build in 2011.
Volkswagen'AG said it plans to
offer hybrid and diesel versions
of four upcoming vehicles being
developed for the U.S. market,
including a future successor to the
Jetta sedan.
Amid all the attention on hybrid
and fullyelectricvehicles, LGChem
CEO Peter Kim said the company
may eventually build battery cells
in Michigan; and it anticipates that
its U.S. subsidiary, Compact Power
Inc., will add to its tOO-person
work force in Troy, Mich.
Posawatz said GM chose LG
Chem because of its flat-cell design
that dissipates heat better and
stores more energy than competi-
tors' cylinder-shaped cells.
Hesaid the competition fromthe
team of Frankfurt, Germany-based
Continental Automotive Systems
and A123 Systems Inc. of Water-
town, Mass., was very capable, but
"one has tobe the lead."
LG Chem's Kim said the GM
contract boosts his company's
global presence.
"We now are a global player. We
have many plants sited worldwide.
So it would be possible to produce it
in the United States in the future,"
he said.
The current LG Chem was
established in 1947 and besides
batteries, also produces petro-
chemicals. LG Chem is a member
of the LG Group, a major South
Korean industrial conglomerate
with interests in areas including
electronics, flat panels, telecom-
munications and logistics.

Registration now open!
Beginning a Advanced Taekwondo
Taught by Grand Master Hwa Chong

READER
KNOWS ET
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

Teaching Martial Arts at UM since 1968
Learn self-defense and Olympic- style fighting
Improve conditioning and flexihiiity
Register online at www.umich.edu/-umove
6-7PM Tue, Thu CCRB-Rm#:2275

4


6 The Michigan Daily - michibandailY.com

Tuesday, January 13, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January13, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Bush asks
Congress for rest
of bailout funds
Acting at Barack Obama's behest,
President George W. Bush yesterday
asked Congress for the final $350
billion in the financial bailout fund,
effectively ceding economic reins to
the president-elect in an extraordi-
nary display of transition teamwork.
Obama also sharply criticized
Bush's handling of the money and
promised radical changes.
Bush's move sets the stage for
Obama to get swift access to the
$350 billion and the opportunity to
overhaul the much-criticized res-
cue package after taking office next
Tuesday. Obama said that it would
be "irresponsible ... to enter into the
administration without any poten-
tial ammunition should there be
some sort of emergency or weaken-
ingofthe financial system."
Congress, where the use of the
money has met stiff bipartisan skep-
ticism, has 15 days to vote to reject
the request. Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev., was consider-
ing holding a vote on a resolution
of disapproval as early as Thursday
in hopes it would be defeated, thus
making the funds available about a
week after Obama inherits one of the
worst financial crises in U.S. history.
NEW YORK
Dow tumbles as oil
prices continue to
new low for year
So much for the Santa Claus rally.
A run-up at the end of the 2008
that had some investors hoping the
worst was over is crumbling on fear
that corporate profit reports arriv-
ing this week will signal a recovery
in the economy is further off than
Wall Street had hoped.
The Dow Jones industrial aver-
age fell for the fourth session
Monday as oil prices tumbled and
as worries about the financial
sector grew. So far this year, the
Dow is down 3.5 percent. Stocks
are still up sharply from late
November but investors are quick
to look for even subtle shifts in
the market after the terrible run
for stocks last year.
A drop in oil added to the pessi-
mism Monday. Crude fell 8 percent
to a new low for the year as inves-
tors bet economic weakness would
curb demand.
Stocks have lost ground since
the Dow rose 19.6 percent from
late November to the first part of
2009 - a year-end advance often
referred to as a Santa Claus rally.
KIEV, Ukraine.
Russia to resume
shipping oil
through Ukraine
Russia's state gas monopoly
has promised to resume shipping
Europe-boundgasthroughUkraine
today, nearly a week after it shut off
the taps and forced countless Euro-
peans to huddle cold and resentful
in freezing homes.

However, a spokesman for the
Gazprom monopoly indicated lin-
gering problems could still prolong
the crisis.
More than 15 countries have
been the inadvertent victims of a
complex and acrimonious wrangle
between Russia and Ukraine over
gas prices, past debts and allega-
tions of theft. They also jockeyed
over an EU-brokered deal to send
pipeline monitors to ensure that
restored gas shipments reach their
destination.
WASHINGTON
Length of one's
finger may indicate
financial success
The length of a man's ring finger
may predict his success as a finan-
cial trader.
Researchers at the University of
Cambridge in England report that
men with longer ring fingers, com-
pared to their index fingers, tended
to be more successful in the frantic
high-frequency trading in the Lon-
don financial district.
Indeed, the impact of biology on
success was about equal to years
of experience at the job, the team
led by physiologist John M. Coates
reports in Monday's edition of Pro-
ceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences.
The same ring-to-index finger
ratio has previously been associ-
ated with success in competitive
sports such as soccer and basket-
ball, the researchers noted.
- Compiled from
Daily mire reports

Israeli offensive
continues in Gaza

More than 900
Palestinians killed
since fighting began
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -
Israeli troops advanced into Gaza
suburbs for the first time early
Tuesday, residents said, hours
after Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
warned Islamic militants of an
"iron fist" unless they agree to
Israel's terms to end the fighting.
Hamas showed no signs of
wavering, however, with itsleader,
Ismail Haniyeh, saying the mili-
tants were "closer to victory."
Despite the tough words, Egypt
said it was making slow but sure
progress in brokering a truce, and
special Mideast envoy Tony Blair
said elements were in place for a
cease-fire.
Sounds of the battle could be
heard clearly before dawn Tuesday
around the city of 400,0000 as the
Israeli forces, backed by artillery
and attack helicopters, moved into
neighborhoods east and south of
Gaza City. Israeli gunboats shelled
the coast from the west.
The Palestinian residents told
The Associated Press that Israeli
tanks rolled into public areas of
the Tel Hawwa neighborhood,

pushing back militants. Tens of
thousands of Palestinians live in
apartment buildings in the neigh-
borhood south of Gaza City.
One of the residents, Khader
Mussa, 35, told The Associated
Press by telephone that he saw two
apartment buildings on fire. He
said he was huddling in the base-
ment of his building with 25 other
people, including his pregnant
wife and his parents. "The gates
of hell have opened," he said. "God
help us."
Several other buildings were
on fire, witnesses said, including
a lumberyard. Thick smoke blan-
keted the area.
The Israeli military confirmed
that a battle was in progress but
gave no details.
On Monday, as diplomats
struggled for traction in truce
efforts, Olmert stood within
Hamas rocket range and said
Israel would only end military
operations if Hamas stops rock-
eting Israel, as it has done for
years, and is unable to rearm
after combat subsides.
"Anything else will be met
with the Israeli people's iron fist,"
Olmert said. "We will continue to
strike with full strength, with full
force until there is quiet and rear-
mament stops."

Illinois U.S. Senate appointee Roland Burris leaves the podium after a news conference in Chicago yesterday. Senate leaders
said they will accept Burris to succeed U.S. President-elect Barack Obama in the Senate, and he will be seated this week.
Senate Dems will accept
Burrs to succeed Obama

Burris likely to be
seated this week
WASHINGTON (AP) - Eager
to put the scandal-tainted standoff
behind them, Senate Democrats
accepted Roland Burris as Presi-
dent-elect Barack Obama's Senate
successor yesterday and said they
expect to swear in the new Illinois
senator this week.
"He is now the senator-desig-
nate from Illinois and, as such, will
be accorded all the rights and priv-
ileges of a senator-elect," Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid and
Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois said in
a joint statement.
At a news conference in Chica-
go, Burris called himself honored
and humbled to be the state's next

junior senator. "I'm thankful for
the opportunity to serve," he said
and added: "I recognize that my
appointment triggered a challeng-
ing time for many."
Monday's development pre-
vented the impasse that has
plagued Democrats from drag-
ging on into Obama's inaugura-
tion festivities that begin this
weekend, and it capped a grudg-
ing, gradual retreat by the Sen-
ate's top Democrats.
Initially they had tried to dissuade
Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, who
faces a state Senate impeachment
trial, from making an appointment
and suggestedthathis pick would not
be seated. Last week, Burris' creden-
tials were rejected by Senate Demo-
crats in a circus-like atmosphere that
tarnished the opening day festivities

of the new Congress.
But Reid and Durbin said they
now anticipate that Burris, a for-
mer Illinois attorney general, will
be seated this week, barring objec-
tions from Republicans.
They made the announcement
after Burris' lawyers delivered to
the Capitol documents certifying
his appointment to Obama's seat,
and the secretary of the Senate
determined that the paperwork
met Senate requirements.
While a victory for Burris, the
move is a major reversal for Senate
Democrats.
Theyinitiallyindicatedtheywould
refuse to seat Burris and objected to
the appointment byBlagojevich, who
is accused by federal investigators of
seeking to trade the Senate seat for
personal favors.

Judge: Still no jail
time for Madoff

Bush defends presidency, offers
advice to Obama in final days

Bush had prepared
comments for all
major controversies
WASHINGTON (AP) - With
rare public emotion, George W.
Bush satinjudgmentonhiscontro-
versial, consequential presidency
yesterday, lamenting mistakes but
claiming few as his own, heatedly
defending his record on disasters
in Iraq and at home and offering
kindly advice to a successor who
won largely because the nation
ached for something new.
By turns wistful, aggressive and
jokingin his final news conference,
Bush covered a huge range of top-
ics in summing up his eight years
in the White House - the latest in

arecentstring ofeffortsto have his
say before historians have theirs.
Then the White House said he
would do it again Thursday night
in a final address to the nation.
Reaching back to his first day
in office, he recalled walking
into the White House and having
"a moment" when he felt all the
responsibilities of the job landing
on his shoulders. Barack Obama
will feel that next week, he said,
his tone gently understanding.
Indeed, he was full of sup-
portive words for Obama - the
nation's first black president - and
talked of being deeply affected
while watching people say on
television that they never thought
they would see such a day, many
with "tears streaming down their
cheeks when they said it."

"President-elect Obama's elec-
tion does speak volumes about
how far this country has come
when it comes to racial relations,"
Bush said, seeming almost awe-
struck.
He brushed off any suggestion
that he'd found the job of president
too burdensome - or that Obama
would find it so. "It's just pathetic,
isn't it, self-pity?" he said. "And I
don't believe that President-elect
Obama will be full of self-pity."
At the same time, Bush showed
his skin is not so thick as all that.
"Sometimes the biggest disap-
pointments will come from your
so-called friends," he advised
Obama. Bush's former press sec-
retary, Scott McClellan, released a
scathing tell-all book last year that
still stings around the West Wing.

Prosecutors say
they plan to appeal
ruling to new judge
NEW YORK (AP) - A judge
yesterday allowed Bernard Mad-
off to remain confined to his
Manhattan penthouse, rejecting a
bid to jail the disgraced financier
but imposing new restrictions to
keep him from mailing any more
valuables to family and friends.
In a ruling that provided limit-
ed satisfaction to investors wiped
out in what may be the largest
Ponzi scheme ever, Magistrate
Judge Ronald L. Ellis ordered
Madoff to take an inventory ofthe
items in his $7 million apartment
and submit his outgoing mail to
security checks.
Prosecutors said they would
ask another judge to jail Madoff
while he awaits trial.
"There is a thirst for blood that
transcends just those who have
been victimized," said attorney
Stephen A. Weiss, who added that
some of his several dozen Madoff
investors "just want to have this
guy's head."
Sweeping aside the emotions
of the case, the judge cited laws

requiring that defendants be
allowed to stay out on bail before
trial unless they are a danger to
the community or a threat to flee.
Those standards make it diffi-
cult for prosecutors to have white-
collar defendants jailed before
trial. The judge noted suspects in
nearly 75 percent of federal fraud
cases are granted bail.
Prosecutors said they planned
to appeal the ruling and ask
another judge to revoke Madoff's
bail. The judge stayed his ruling
for 48 hours, meaning the new
restrictions will not take effect
right away.
The judge also said restrictions
in a separate civil case that apply
to property under Madoff's con-
trol would,apply to the criminal
case - meaning moving money
around by computer would violate
his bail conditions.
But in keeping Madoff out of jail
for now, Ellis said it did not matter
that Madoff was charged in what
appears to be the largest Ponzi
scheme in history, that Madoff is
publicly vilified or that a conviction
might bring a long prison term.
The judge said prosecutors'
claim that Madoff presented an
economic harm to the commu-
nity was shaky.

Summer Study Abroad raitr =
YJanuary 14, 2009O35p
Michigan Union, Pendleton Room
S m tuFinancial aid is available
to assist UM students
participating in UM
study abroad programs.
View instructions to apply for study
abroad aid at: www~flnaid.umich.edu/apply_
and receive aid/applying for aidwabroad.asp.
-- If you will be enrolled in a study abroad
The EDUCATION ABROAD Network program sponsored by the university of
A n A d v e n t u r e I n MIN DMichigan, you will be considered for all
. a aid programs except Work-Study. Note:
rDpenditng upon the cost of youmrstsdy abroad
program, toe Hmy or may not be able tomeet
your full demonstratedfinancial steed to attend.
-- If you will enroll in a study abroad program
sponsored by another institution/agency,
contact the Office of Financial Aid
immediately to review your options.
mck
Vc 10
en T Q..f:
w tudy Abroad for Academic Credit . ,.h
www educationabroadnetwork.org www.study-australid com

I

ft

Al

4


U pin ion The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, January 13, 2009

4 - Tuesday, January13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

L74C MIC4ig n wily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsignededitorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorialboard.Allother signedarticles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T HE DAILY
A slow way to vote s
State legislature should ensure every soldier's vote counts

NOTABLE T
"The White House reminds me of a museum.
How do you sleep in a museum?"
- President-elect Barack Obama's mother-in-law Marian Robinson on moving into the
White House, in an interview with People magazine and as reported yesterday by the Chicago Tribune.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I OUT TO PASTURE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
SoI alread bo t y"Yes Sgh You coildiave salltn day=this st willbe
We Did" t-shirnmyOb raa at neytopoor4 worhmisls
dinner plates and $300 of you know
Obamatoin ,butstillneed a*'flbuy e ratnow
Oi shglasses.,(No, oudon'u n)1 a fo1r2 cens eahb er dse
0 0
Shakespear' ertsyn

L ast semester, many students learned firsthand that voting
in Michigan can be quite a hassle, complete with voter ID
problems, proper wardrobe requirements and general mis-
information. But as it turns out, voting is even harder for Michi-
gan's military personnel overseas. According to a study released
last week by the Pew Center on the States, one-third of all states
aren't giving these servicemen enough time to vote - and Michi-
gan is one of them. But Michigan's overseas military personnel
deserve to have their votes counted like everyone else. The state
legislature should get to work immediately to make sure that right
is upheld by implementing improvements like electronic voting,
write-in ballots and deadline changes.

In several states, the voting process for
military voters abroad can take as little as
eight days. In Michigan, it takes 57. Given
voting deadlines and inefficiencies in mail-
ing systems, this leaves military voters
very little time to complete and send their
ballots. For many, that is simply not enough
time, and makes the process far too incon-
venient.
It's bad enough when students and
civilians are discouraged from voting by
Michigan's overcomplicated election laws.
But to discourage serving men and women
from voting is downright embarrassing.
The Pew Center's report identifies elec-
tronic voting, write-in ballots and deadline
changes as ways to alleviate this problem.
These reforms have been successfully
employed in other states and would give
military personnel more time to complete
and submit their ballots.
Allowing electronic voting via e-mail or
fax would greatly reduce the time ballots
spend in mail systems. Although there are
some concerns about the safety and secu-
rity of electronic voting, Michigan's leg-
islature should take a serious look at this
option to see if electronic voting could
work with the proper safeguards in place.
This option could give military personnel

weeks, rather than days, to cast their bal-
lots.
Michigan can also give its military vot-
ers more time to vote and make the process
more convenient by minimizing the time
ballots spend in conventional mail and
military mail systems. The state should
consider changing the deadlines for absen-
tee ballots. Ballots are sent out to absentee
voters on Sept. 20, but Michigan could fol-
low the lead of other states and send them
out earlier.
Michigan should also expand use of the
Federal Write-in Absentee Ballot, which
allows individuals to write-in their can-
didate preferences and could serve as a
back-up for people who don't receive their
ballots on time.
Voters should be able to expect more
than slow mail systems and bureaucratic
hurdles from their government - espe-
cially when it comes to voting. There are
plenty of solutions to this problem, and the
state legislature has no excuse for failing
to address the issue.
The legislature needs to make proce-
dural changes to move Michigan into the
group of states that gives its troops sta-
tioned abroad enough time to cast their
votes.

recent AP article states lex-
cographers have become so
excited about the informal
expression "meh"
that the Collins
English Dictionary
decided to make
it an official word.
This prompted
many, including
myself, to wonder:
1. What is a lexi-
cographer? WILL
2. Should we beG
afraid if informal GRUNDLER
expressions excite
them?
I am, of course, joking. As any dic-
tionary will tell you, a lexicographer
is a person who makes maps. And
who wouldn't be excited about "meh"
as a real phrase? This word - mean-
ing indifference or boredom - has
been making a comeback ever since it
debuted, if you remember, in Shake-
speare's Hamlet:
Claudius: To be or not to be, that is
the question.
Gertrude: Meh.
Hamlet: (Stage left, behind potted
plant. Whimpers in rage and self-
hatred.)
"Meh" went unnoticed for centu-
ries - Shakespearean insults such as
"Thou vain, unwash'd bladder!" were
much cooler - but now it's gaining
popularity, especially here at the Uni-
versity. For example, when someone
asks you whether you're buying season
football tickets next year, a popular
response used to be "heck yes," but now
we say "meh" instead. "Meh" is also a
favorite reply when someone wants to
know if you plan on voting in the next
Michigan Student Assembly elections.
(Note: "What are those?" might be an

even more common response.)
Now, I know what you're thinking.
You're thinking, "Should I call a Diag
preacher a vain, unwash'd bladder?"
(No. Refrain from eloquence and call
him a dirty bladder, then bite your
thumb at him.) You're also thinking,
"Well yeah, it really comes as no sur-
prise that 'meh' is a word now - it's
basically 'eh' with an 'i'. But what
about other cool slang that we want to
see as real words, like 'irregardless'? P
Excellent point. As any decent edi-
tor will tell you, the bestjournalisis use
Wikipediato research these important
issues. But I wanted to go even further
- so I attempted to contact Collins
English Dictionary, which is based,
inexplicably, in Scotland. (But after a
quick Wikipedia search, I discovered
that they speak both Scottish and Eng-
lish over there, so it makes sense.)
Before doing so, I did some more
research and discovered that the Col-
lins English Dictionary editors, having
grownbored fromeditingdictionaries,
had encouraged readers to submitcon-
versational, non-dictionary words and
promised one submission would be
published as a new word. As a result,
many readers who were bored of read-
ing dictionaries sent in their sugges-
tions (eventhoughmostofthemhadn't
had a conversation in years). It came as
no surprise that "meh" was chosen,
though there were some interesting
candidates. For instance, the term
"frenemies" (French for "split per-
sonality") was a popular submission.
So was "huggles." but since no normal
person would ever utter the word in
public, it didn't win.
This information changed every-
thing. Suddenly, I knew I had to make
a suggestion myself, rather than bore
the Collins English Dictionary people

to death with journalistic questions.
However, picking a slang word that
the entire campus would like to see
made official is easier said than done.
Finally, after ages of consideration,
after thinking of popular books, mov-
ies and other entertainment, I had it.
What follows is a completely verba-
tim transcript of an e-mail exchange
between Anna MacDermid, a Col-
lins Dictionary support assistant and
myself.
Will: Hello!. I recently learned
that your 30th anniversary English
Why "meh"
makes it in but
. "huggle" doesn't.
Dictionary will include "meh" as a
word. I think this is very exciting
and I also wonder if you will include
"muggle," too, a derogatory noun - as
in, "Don't lie to me, you filthy muggle."
Thank you!
Anna: Hi William - Thank you for
your email - we appreciate feedback
from our dictionary fans. I will for-
ward your suggestion to our diction-
ary editors.
I will forward yoursuggestion. His-
tory in the making! Perhaps I wasted
my chance by requesting "muggle," but
it's such a good insult - whenever you
accuse someone of not being a wizard,
you know you've crossed a line.
Though compared to "vain,
unwash'd bladder," it's a bit meh.
Will Grundler can be reached
at sailguil@umich.edu.


LET TER TO THE EDITOR SE
Review of "Valkyrie" misses
film's historical accuracy

ND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Many critics disliked the movie. But perhaps
actually watching the film and a quick Wikipe-
dia search would have served Stahl better.
Rebecca Halpern

TO THE DAILY: LSA Senior
Though I often disagree with the Daily's
movie reviews, yesterday's critique of Valky- Obama's
rie by Noah Dean Stahl ('Valkyrie' a noble plot
that ends in failure, 1/12/2009) was an all-time Israel'sr
low. It appeared, in fact, as if Stahl didn't even
see the film before reviewing it. In the article,
Stahl asks why the movie barely mentions the TO THE DAIL'
Holocaust. The movie, however, was not about It's curious,
the Holocaust at all. The movie's backdrop is cize Israel's ri
World War. ing President-:
Aside from Tom Cruise's overacting, the Obama's fight.
movie fared pretty well in its historical accu- it was Barack
racy - a fact Stahl overlooked. Hitler's detrac- was sending r.
tors at the time did not oppose Hitler's regime two daughters
because of the atrocities committed at Dachau thing to stop ti
and other places, but because Hitler started a the same thini
war he was unable to finish. The opposition's that Stenvigv
rebellion was not out of compassion but was an rogue governn
attempt to salvage Germany's pride. If this fact dom rockets at
seems in some way "irresponsible" to Stahl, he
can blame the detractors the movie's characters Aaron Willis
were based on, not the writers. Alum

s remarks support
nilitary action
.Y:
that Kate Stenvig chose to criti-
ght to self-defense while prais-
elect Barack Obama (Continuing
for unity, 1/12/2009). Ironically,
Obama who said, "If somebody
ockets into my house where my
sleep at night, I would do every-
hat and would expect Israel to do
g." I suppose it is safe to assume
would be perfectly fine with a
ment in Ypsilanti launching ran-
t Ann Arbor by the thousands.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

YANNICK WOOD I VIEWPOINT
Outlaws in the ML)3

I

JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
f Y"
99

Every day I spent as a freshman completing the LSA
language requirement was like an adventure straight out
of a Spaghetti Western.
I, along with hundreds of others, would herd through
the corral of the Modern Language Building basement.
The floors accumulated so much dust that it clumped
together (with several strands of hair) and rolled around
like tumbleweed. We were a motley crew of students -
some city slickers, some country folk, but all overachiev-
ers and desperados gunning for perfection with the
occasional senior whose graduation hinged upon a C- in
the class.
At any rate, we were concerned about our grades, and
most of us had no intention of pursuing a foreign lan-
guage, even as a minor. Being the outlaws that we were,
it should come as no surprise that some of us cheated.
After all, teachers used the same exams semester after
semester (believe me, I know). It was not uncommon for
an upperclassman to keep an old French exam on file to
lend to friends.
My real surprise is that very few were ever caught. Few
academic integrity violations are reported by depart-
ments at the University. This could be for several rea-
sons: professors might choose to handle cheating without
reporting it to the Dean, or they might not be catching
students. Truth be told, this problem of underreported
cheating occurs in almost every department.
But why did we cheat in the first place?
We cheated because we could. It was easy to get our
hands on tests from past students. Many introductory
classes are classes that most students have to take. When
professors use the same tests year after year, there are
many answer sheets floating around. If the answers are

online, it makes it even easier -- you don't even need to
know someone who previously took the course. Outlaws
never had it so easy.
We cheated because we did not respect the course.
If professors don't vary the subject material each year 4
and use examples and notes that are just taken from text-
book publishers, students have less incentive to actually
put in extra work for a fair grade. When professors design
uninteresting courses, we do not think the class is worth
our while.
Students have responsibilities, too, and I'm not trying
to shift all the blame to the professors. I understand it's
difficult and time-consuming to change syllabi each year,
and even if they are changed, there's no guarantee that
every student in the class will find the material worthy of
an honest effort.
But when professors update their material and show
they are truly passionate about their lessons, students
cannot help but buy into the professors' vision. It is then,
when teachers increase the effort they put into educating,
that students face a serious challenge in legitimizing their
cheating and are thus less likely to do it.
In cases when it's difficult to detect cheating, profes-
sors' passion for their material will still go a long way to
discourage this activity. A successful professor would
be as open as possible with students in explaining the
realities of cheating and encouraging students to take the 4
learning process seriously. They would not simply say that
"cheating is bad, don't do it or let me catch you doing it."
If proessors did that, our outlaw days might be over.
Yannick Wood is a Public Policy junior and
a member of the LSA Honor Council.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Shannon Kellman,
Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler, Jennifer Sussex, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

I4

i



The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Tuesday, January 13, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday ianuaryl3,2009-5

The subjective
bliss of listening

Dead from the start

In new horror, David
Goyer's directing can't
match his screenwriting
By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
David Goyer is a fantastic screenwriter
when it comes to dark action,

spectacle and the occult. An
Ann Arbor native, Goyer is
an avid sci-fi and comic geek
who brandishes tattoos and is
noted for his brooding writ-
ing. He helped write the last
two "Batman" films, made
the "Blade" movies ' supe-
rior schlock and has written

The Unborn
At Quality 16
and Showcase
Rogue

example that creative stories can be poorly
told.
"The Unborn" is the story of Casey Beldon
(Odette Yustman, "Cloverfield"), an undergrad
student living in and around Chicago. She's
starting to see things: creepy kids, blinking
fetuses and insects everywhere. And, because
this is a supernatural thriller and obviously
nothing like real life, the film never shows
Casey going to class, discussing her major,
tuition or grades.
Realistic or not, Casey has just found out
that she had a twin who died during childbirth.
Perhaps that's why she's haunted by a spooky
little boy? Could it be the reason she's seeing
dogs with masks on their faces?
In search of answers, Casey finds her
estranged grandmother Sofi (Jane Alexander,
"'the Ring"), a Holocaust survivor and requi-
site wise old religious lady. Sofi explains that
Casey is being haunted by a dybbuk, a possess-
itg demon of Kabalah and Jewish Europeat
folklore that can invade our world via mirrors
and scantily clad women. How PG-13.
The rest of "The Unborn" is a series of creepy
moments and crazy images that should leave
the audience wondering how Gary Oldman
("Batman Begins") wound up in this movie as
an exorcising rabbi.
Still, "The Unborn" has some fascinating
imagery and ideas. A mix of Jewish mysticism,

underage melodrama and imagery lifted from
"Don't Look Now," the film occasionally works.
It's filled with radically random moments.
When a feeble old man suddenly bends and
morphs into an upside-down tarantula, Goyer
strikes trippy gold. When a four-year-old child
appears with a blue raincoat, butcher knife and
demon face, it's legitimately scary. And when
Gary Oldman sees a bull terrier with an upside
down head growling in a temple, it's actually
memorable.
But it's not enough. While "The Unborn"
has great images and fresh ideas, nothing ever
quite meshes. Goyer is still green at directing,
and he throws his scenes together with little
cohesion or flair.
Horror films can easily sling cheap thrills at
audiences, usually using tense "Psycho"-esque
strings inthesoundtrack anderashedits.Goyer'
lazily uses these tools, in addition to innocuous
slow motion and baroque angles. As a result,
one can't help but imagine this material in th
hands of a skilled horror director. There's a
reason "The Dark Knight" was so good: Goyer
let someone else direct his material. What if
Guillermo Del Toro ("Pan's Labyrinth") or Eli
Roth ("Hostel") got a crack at this? Think of all
the tension and thrills people could get from a
Goyer collaboration with one of those guys.
Instead, "The Unborn" is just a slightly aver-
age January thriller. Keep writing, Goyer.

When Iinitiallyhbought
The Cure's Disintegra-
tion I absolutely hated
it. I resented the
album because y
it was mopey,
shapeless and
way too good for
me. I could tell it
was great, but in
some ivory tower JOSH
sort of way that J
I would never SAYER
fully understand.
Then I broke up with my girl-
friend.
After that, it was like I was
listening to the record through
a completely different set of ear-
drums. Its ambiently undulating
odysseys used to bore me to death;
post-breakup, they washed over
me like a Zen wave of remedial
hopelessness. The Cure, indeed. For
two weeks, I wanted nothingbut
to take long hotbaths in the band's
angsty brilliance. Before, the record
hadn't even sounded like music
to me. There had been no driving
force behind it. It would just slosh
tepidly in my ears like lukewarm
bathwater. But when I listened to
Disintegration on a family road trip
the day after the breakup, it hit me
that it was driven by emotion. What
had previously sounded like back-
ground music cocooned me like a
warm sweater as I slouched bleary-
eyed in the backseat of my mom's
car. Heartache had unlocked the
door to the ivory tower.
So as I sit here now, wallowing
in this bittersweet nostalgia, a
burning question springs to mind:
What makes me like music? Being
a music critic, this is particularly
distressing. Had I reviewed Dis-
integration pre-breakup, I would
have panned it as drearily plod-
ding Goth sludge. But if I were to
review it now, I would worship it
as a slow-burn cathartic tour de
force. So when I have only a week
to listen to and assess a given
albums for the Daily, how can I
possibly be expected to regurgi-
tate a ripened opiion about it?
Now, I want to make it crystal
clear that I am not tryingto detan-
gle this riddle of "what makes
good music?" for the masses. Not
at all. How could I? I'm tangled
up enough myself. But what I am
doing is letting you ride shotgun
while I attempt to cure my own
idiosyncratic confusion.
Music could easily hold the
throne as the most subjective art
form in the big, bad kingdom of art
forms. And while we can bicker
endlessly about lush arrangements
and technical prowess and how
fucked-up Bjork is, when it comes
down to the nitty-gritty, all that
truly matters is the way music
makes us feel. Plain and simple. It
may sound trite, but it's true. It is
for me, at least.
It's primal, sometimes even
sexual. It's a gut feeling I get
every time I hear the guitar solo
in "Summer Babe" by Pavement.

Or the gooseflesh that explodes on
my forearms like serrated Braille
whenever Thom Yorke soars into
his wraithlike falsetto. That's
when I know something's work-
ing, how I know the music's doing
its job.
But is it?
If I'm driving my car down
Main Street on a balmy April
afternoon, with the windows
down and the tantalizing aroma
of restaurants I can't afford waft-
ing into my nostrils, I'm goingto
think whatever I'm listening to is
a masterpiece. Hell, after having
a stimulating conversation with
someone, I could probably wax
poetic to Lil' Jon. Maybe that's a
bit of a stretch, but the point I'm
trying to make is that my enjoy-
ment and appreciation of music
is strongly contingent on not only
how it makes me feel, but also how
I'm feelingbefore I even hear it.
So maybe that's it. Music is like
a padlocked treasure chest, and
we need only to be in the right
state of mind to ransack its riches.,
Fair enough.
But what about differentiating
between the different creams of
the crop, or between the albums
I've already labeled as "my favor-
ites"? Being a music elitist, I obvi-
ously need to have an all-time
favorite album. You know, for
when people ask. And when they
do, I tell them Radiohead's Kid A.
But I could just as easily tell them
In Rainbows. While the former
may be what I deem "the perfect
album," the latter is my go-to; the
one I'll spin when nothing else
is doing it for me. In Rainbows
boasts the highest playcounts on
my iPod by a complete landslide.
It makes me giddy no matter what
Even I don't
know what I like.
mood I'm in. But, as a critic, I'll
tip my hat to KidA for its sheer
sonic infinity. Every time I listen
to the album, I'll hear something 1
haven't heard before. And I listen
to it a lot. So which one is better?
Which one is truly my favorite? I
have no idea.
I guess the more important
question is: Does any of this really
matter? I like to think it doesn't.
Sure, this skittish self-analysis
can provide for some thought-
provoking cognitive aerobics.
But if I'm stoned at Lollapalooza,
Broken Social Scene is playing
"Cause=Time," and I'm so moved
I'm on the verge of tears (hypo-
thetically, of course), I'm not going
to waste one second pondering
why I'm in spch ecstasy. I'm just
going to feel it.
Bayer is just looking for a
new girlfriend. Cheer him up
at jrbayer@umich.edu

enough junk food ("Death Warrant," "Dark
City") to last Spike a lifetime.
But as a director, Goyer kinda ... sucks.
The weak direction is only thing holding
back "The Unborn," a consistently interesting
but ultimately medicore new thriller written
and directed by Goyer. A brilliant idea-making
kind of man, Goyer keeps enough utterly crazy
shit on the screen at all times to keep audiences
amused, but he never quite leads the film in the
direction he should. "The Unborn" is a perfect

A menagerie of creative clarity

By MATT EMERY plex album they offer.
Daily Arts Writer With Merriweather Post Pavil-
ion, two things are now poignant-
Animal Collective has never ly clear: Panda and Avey are no
been transparent. Leaders Avey longer complete mystery men and
Tare and Panda Bear's songs are Animal Collective's growing fan
caked in lay- base will continue to develop with
ers of technical the group's most accessible, soni-
production with cally reserved effort yet. There
many of their Aimal are no more songs that might
lyrics shrouded not even be songs, and fewer
and garbled, COIIediVe obtrusive squeals and wandering
as if they were Merriweather sounds. Also, someone told Avey
singing in an Post Pavilion he didn't need to scream any-
aquarium. The . more, which is nice.
sporadic yet cal- Still, from the first warbles of
culated sounds opening track "In the Flowers,"
and production have always it's painfully clear that Animal
trumped Animal Collective's Collective isn't looking for abso-
characteristically indecipherable lute clarity this time around. B3ut
lyrics. Merriweather is an astoundingly
Similar to their lyrics, Tare and crisp, buttery effort that not only
Bear's lives rest in relative secrecy. rounds out a lot of the blunt edges
They don't do many interviews. from the band's first few albums,
They don't blog constantly. Even but also ups the lyrical deftness of
press photos are scarce. All they 2007'sStrawberry Jam. All of these
really have speaking for them is elements formulate what is sure to
their music, and it has certainly be one of the most technically and
helped their legendary status grow vocally precise albums of 2009.
exponentially with each new, com- Merriweather is a decidedly

adult album. Despite the thinly
veiled drug references (including
the lyrics "If I could only leave my
body for the night" on "In the Flow-
ers" and the cross between an opti-
cal illusion and a "Magic Eye" book
that is the album cover), Panda and
'Tare are growing up. Panda feels
domestic on "My Girls," singing,
"Is it much to admit I need / a solid
soul and the blood I bleed / With a
little girl, and by my spouse / I only
want a proper house." On "Daily
Routine," the production - full of
chirpsandelongatedvocalpatterns
- mimics the daily routine of pro-
tecting a child from gas fumes and
stopping at traffic signals before
the vocals blend into stretched and
desolate shutters. The songs pack a
bit of raw emotion that didn't seem
possible on Animal Collective's
previous albums, especially under-
neath the complex drum patterns
of Sung Tongs and Tare's old pen-
chant for screaming.
For all its wispy hits and swirl-
ingtmelodies aboutleaves and flow-
ers, Merriweather pushes a more
dance-oriented Animal Collective,
though with more than a touch
of hippie musical elements. The
grinding and mechanical "Sum-
mertime Clothes" is scrubbed
clean by dueling and jovial chimes
from both Tare and Bear about
the healing powers of the sun.
But the undercurrents of tension
and fear create a fitting, grounded
quality, which can be seen when
Tare sings, "Walking around in
our summertime clothes / Know
where to go when our bodies go."
True to form, Animal Collective
still enjoys embracing its tribal
and jungle influences. "Lion in a
Coma" skips along injected with a
didgeridoo-like beat and the sound
of buzzing insects, and "Guys
Eyes" sounds like it was recorded
in a swamp where Tare and Bear's
vocals compete for a dose of fresh
air. The subtle touches to songs
like these and the delicate lyrics of
love-song "Bluish" show just why


Animal Collective has such a cult
following: No one else can make
songs so astonishingly complex.
"Brother Sport" feels like a
dance song, even though it may not
be, with the lyrics "Open up your,
open up your, open up your throat,
and let them go" falling into video
game blips and bloops, compli-
mented by a siren-like squalor. It's
an outcast on the album, falling
into the final slot, and it might be
the closest the group has to cling-
ing to its alienating self of old. But
underneath it all are the complex
connections ofvocals and the com-
puter splashes that should never go
together so well.
What really pulls "Brother
Sport" into Merriweather Post
Pavilion is the culmination of all
the things that have worked so well
for Animal Collective, not just on
the album, but for the past decade.
Dance and hippie
jams all in one.
It's a bit of an anomaly after all the
flowing tracks, but Merriweather
wouldn't be the same without
"Brother Sport." It's a peppy, dance-
and-chant-oriented reminder of
the group's eclectic tendencies that
shows that even on top of such an
emotionally raw disc, Animal Col-
lective really has found its stride
and picked its best elements to craft
a startlingly precise album.

1 r- 7----7

A I &

i

i


6-Tuesday, January 13, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

',''

WilsonWhite

1

WT$500FFYOURRENT!
W ilson Nhi pe OUR APARTMENTS INCLUDE

AVAIL NOW PRKG. on S. Forest
near S. University. 734-996-2836.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300
PRKG SPACES 2 blocks from B-
School at Hill and Church. $100/mo.
734-260 4003.
PRKG. SPOT AVAIL on central cam-
pus. $80/mo. 248-348-8205.
f f en
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $399/mo. 845-399-9904.
!6-BDRM, 2. Bath colonial, Central
campus (1143 S.forest Ave.). 5 min
walk to college w/2 fridges/mi-
crowave/toaster/sink/free todry/private
deck/ample prkg. Call 734-578-4625.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1200/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
4 BEDROOMAPARTMENTt
To see it, is to say WOW! A Unique
and spacious apt. in a beautiful con-
verted house. Hardwood floors, higi
ceilings, furnIshed, dishwasher, large
yard. www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
4 ELEVEN LOFTS, Brand New for
2009. 3, 4, & 5 resident lofts- available.
with individual housing contracts start-
ing at $655/month. Model open 7
days/week. 400 E. Washington (@ Di-
vision) Visit www.4ElevenLofls.com
y/k ,


1""0112009 MY

flvoilebili~y:
12br/4ba 1307 S. State
$5500
9br/ 4ba 916 Sybil $5775
8br/4ba 1302 S. Forest
$3750
7br/2ba 335 E. Ann $4195
7br/ 2ba 222 N. Thayer
$3995
6br/3ba 1814 Geddes
$3795
6br/3ba 804 Lawrence
$3545
6br/2ba 7058. Division
$3925
6br/2ba 507 Walnut $3995

I I AVAILABILTY

6br/3ba200 Packard $3495
mOny other Effloiencg
to 12 t Available tool

I

5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & dry. 7. walk to
Union. $2399 + ati. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM APPARTMENTS
Sept. 2009
$2400-$2800
COP] PROPERT ES
734-663-5609
954 568 2514
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. 2 fridges. front porch &
deck in back. no coin Indry. $3400. 502
Benjamin. Cgl, 248-214-8708. Fgll
2009.
6 BDRM. FALL 09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg, plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BA IlIHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.

Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.
AMAZING 5 BDRM., 2 and 1/2 bath.
house, right on South University Ave.
Free parking. $3499/mo. 734-665-8825.
8 E stu4io 
3 e Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condomium 5
AAD et & Secre HnsE RE tm '99r
C 3 n pan sit
734-663-15306
904 S. FOREST # 2. May F09. 4 large
bdrms. 1 350 Geddes for Fall 09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzeliproperties. net
A LLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657

Heat & waterV
Excellent maintenance
Great location
FREE F00!
FREE wireless internet
24hr attendant
THE BEST OF
ANN ARBOR 2008
734-761-2680
Universtyowers-mnco
CHECK OUT1OUR
AWESOME SPECIALS!
Univerity
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
available tool All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL-
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMS at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BACK 2 SCHOOL Open House this
Thurs. 3-7pm at 4.Eleven Lofts. 400 E.
Washington (@c) Division) Walk-
Through our full scale model and don'ts
forget to ask about FREE PARKING
www.4ElevenLofts.com
CAMPUS 2 BED, 2 BATH1:
Exceptionally large apts., super loca-
tion: 51 5 Walnut St. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartmets.net

4 4OWnetd and O#t
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
wwW.aniiarbOrapartneits.net
or visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.

Fall 2009
Furnished 1 & 2 Bdrm -
apartments on central campus
848 Ta pan & 1015 Vaughn
arin/g included
Call to Schedule a Tour
M-F 734-668-1100 .
Evenings and Weekends 313-300-4455

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446 j
tnfo@issaproperties.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the
most detailed listings in town! RENT
ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE
HOUSES OR APARTMENTS AND
WE'LL KNOCK $500 OFF THE
FIRST MONTH'S RENT WHEN
YOU MENTION THIS AD. Things
are moving quickly so call 663-4101
now to schedule a personal showing!
Houses and Large Apartments:
515 Catherine - 6 BR / 2 Studies / 2
BA / $3495
203 N. Ingalls -3 BR / 3 BA/ $2595
516 S. Fourth Ave. - 5 BR / all utils.
inel. / $2525
809 Lawrence #1 - 4 BR / 2.5 BA /
$2245.
1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5
BA / $3295
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR /
$2270
912 [: Ann St. - 4 BR / REN IS
1349 Geddes -5 BR / RENTED
811 Catherine -6 BR / RENTED
535 S. Fifth Ave.- 4 BR / RENTED
1331 Geddes -6 BR / RENTED
934 Greenwood #2 - 4 BR / RENTED
408 E. Jefferson #1 -6 BR / RENTED
511 Lawrence -6 BR / RENTED
517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED
1031 Michigan - 4 BR / RENTED
206 N. Thayer - 4 BR / RENTED
1342 N. University Ct. - 3 BR /
RENT ED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR /
RENTED
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint-
ments available too if you need them!
Wilson White Management
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
FALL 2009. PEPPERS Properties. 3
bdrm. apts. East U. furn. heat/water
incl. on site prkg. 810-231-0229.
umcampushousing.com
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm.
700+ sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave.
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
AVAILABLE MAY 1 bedroom. 428
S. Division..$875 negotiable. Call
734-996-1991 for viewing.

I
I

CRAWFORD HOUSE
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
available att 1115 Willard. Free prkg.
$3299/mo. Campus Realty
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CURRENTLY AVAILABLE- WE
have a few left, but they are going to
go fast at the prices we have them at!
Call to get in today! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwliitemanagement.com

GREAT LOCATION FOR this 4-bed-
room, 2-1/2 bath house on the north
side. Fenced yard, lawn & snow care in-
cluded. 2-car attached garage. Great for
students. Located on Pontiac Trail be-
tween Dhu Varren and Skydale. Easy
access to downtown and highways.
Contact A. Rasmussen, Reinhart Prop-
erty Manager, at 734-669-5846 for
more info. View other listings at
www.ReinhartHomeRentals.com
GREAT PACKARD LOCATIONS:
526 and 917, large balconies/patios,
heat, water, parking, furnished, dish-
washers, laundry. Huge 2 bedroom
apartments great for 3-4 people!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call (734)
649-5549 anytime.
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
net. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
Apartments Aviable!

0

www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-5620
MAY LEASES AVAILABLF
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
Ends 1-16-09
universitytowers-mi.com
II. ,3367f2680 -
MAY - MAY 2 BEDROOM:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
NEED TO BE on N. Campus?:
Check out our Walnut St. and Geddes
Ave. locations! 1, 2, & 3 bdrms near
CC Little bus stop. Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100

12 En

331 Catherine
Kerrytown
6-8 person house
with 2 kitchens,
2 blocks from State St.
734-668-1100


RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 32 Back on the 52 Speedy
1 Molecule part 1 Do something ocean? 53 Empty-hall
5 Till 2 Scarlett's 33 Rough Riders sound
compartment refuge nickname 54 Not obese in the
9 Beverage 3 Fail to include 37 Guy's wallet least
before bedtime, 4 It no longer alternative 55 Garden State
purhaps matters 39 Astaire NBAers
14 Hunter's garb, 5 Best Picture of footwear 56 High-
for short 1997 44 Methods spiritedness
15 Thought 6 "No Child Leff 48 Portugal's 57 Deli side dish
16 Remove with Behind" dept. Alfonso I, e.g. 58 Numbers game
rubber 7 Twiggy abode 49 __ Beta Kappa 59 Fill completely
17 Small ieee 8 H.H. Muro's 50 Tearoom biscuit 63 -com bubble
c7mbo pen name ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
18 Narwhal feature 8 Stood up for
19 Ntrng pontr 10 Wash away A N G LIE OK R A NOS H
0Teptaion for slowly B A R O N D I E T O A H U
a business exec 11 Give a darn U P A N D D Q W N M A R K E T
absnseec12 Dog of
23 Farm house mysteries T A N GEE R I E S T I E S
24 Ace's value, at 13 Have a hunch D O T E W E T H E N
times 21 Sleep phase, K O S I D I G L O S
25 Getting on in briefly N O L I E FOAM T S A R
years 22 Encycl. unit O N A N D O F F R O MAN C E
31 It ends in Nov. 25 Kicked off B A M A N Y E T A R OM A
34 K-a 26 Judy Jetson's F C C R Y E S W E D
35 Ears at the brother P R D
vegetable stand 27 Marine map BA ER D QR PLAT
36e iretor's cry In 28 Nick of "Cape
an underactor? Fear" O P E N A N D S H U T C A S E
38 Research 29 Welcome L E N Z A I M S WOKE N
money 30Start T RAY P E S O A T E A T
40" Midrables" 31 Egg purchase xwordeditor@aol.com 01/12109
41 Nodded on 2 a 4 s a 1 12
42 Primary trunk
line 14 1s 1is
43 Golfers' starting
points 17 18 19
45 Dweeb
46 Big Apple
paper, initially 23 24
47 Chunk of
change 25 28 27 2 29 30 31 32 33
50 Spokane-to- a us a
Boise dir.
51 Not outgoing us an o 41
52 Fun for Fido
6 Allergic reaction 2n
e1 Glamour rinal as 7 9
62 Element whose
symbol is Pb so s1
64 Shoe
restoration 52 sa 5a 5s 51 s7 5a 59
65 Management a1 62 s3
group
66 A big fan of 5a 6s s
67 Musical sounds
68 Puts in stitches e7 a 69
69 Burns or Byron
By Gail Grabowski 01/13/09
(e)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL,
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
WisN h-
$3,995 HAS
NEVER
AFFORDED
YOU THIS
MUCH!
brand New upscale
bedroom apartments
0611 ChurCh The9
are newit constructed
5 bedroom, 2.5 bath
pa rtments, witn all
t/ latest andgeatest
amen/ties, lIke a
Waske r and d rge r in
unit
Avail. Mag 2009.

4
4

Deadlne for oine ads is1130am one business day priorto publication.
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for details * Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placedin person with a valid student ID(non-organizational, non-
business ads only) e All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been estabished e We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
I day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 8.60 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80
3lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 3225 38.70
4lines 17.20 25.80 3940 43.00 51.60

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent

4

Policies:
Abbreviations: Onlystand
TMD for failure to pubish an
shall be limited to publishing
wi be responsibe for class
Rates: Al changes shown
consecutive rate if requeste c
Ad/eterrmy ucan an5
been published. Refusal:/
resale of tickets at more tha

dard ab
n adver
iin as81
sifed ac

>ns as defined
it fr any reasa 
ent issue and r

 wil be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
r pubshing incorrect ads in a specified issue
e than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
/ed by 5:00 pr on the first day of publication
tive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
ginally scheduled ending date. Refunds:
o refund wll be given unless the ad has not yet
roval. We do not publish advertisements for
t to request samples of mal order itemsprior to

0 00ervces
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcemenrts
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
160 - ets

4
4

cd paid in full by 11:30 am on,
efore publcation deadlne, bu
s are subject to editing and al
:e value. TMD reserves the rig

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



6 4 4 6


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 13, 2009 -- 7

The ichgan ail - ichiandilycm Tesdy, Jnuay13,200 -

DOMINICK'S
From Page 1
was a required part of the pro-
cess for DiVarti's petition for a
new PUD to be approved by City
Council.
A report will be submitted to
the city's Planning Committee
on Jan. 26. The petition includes
concerns from residents voiced at
last night's meeting and an outline
of the city's basic zoning require-

ments.
One of the concerns mentioned
by residents at the meeting was
whether or not the expansion of
the restaurant and other properties
would increase vehicular traffic
flow through the area, but DiVarti
said that most people travel by foot
in the largely student populated
neighborhood.
Matthew Krichbaum, DiVarti's
attorney, assured attendees that
he would include specific lan-
guage in the report to City Coun-

cil to maintain the feel of the
neighborhood.
Residents present at the meeting
praised DiVarti's plan for respect-
ing the neighborhood's architec-
tural feel.
"I'm glad that it seems that
you're keeping up the character
of the neighborhood," said Yousef
Rabhi, an LSA junior who attended
last night's meeting. "I think that
the plans you've drawn up seem to
accentuate character rather than
destroy it."


UNEMPLOYMENT
From Page 1
"Well, I think this is going to be
a phenomenal place for students to
learn," Woolliscroft said.
Woolliscroft also said the Uni-
versity has plans to use some of
the space for research from private
sponsorships, but added that these
partnerships have yet to be deter-
mined.
Jesse Bernstein, the president
of the Ann Arbor Area Chamber of
Commerce, said that although the
Pfizer purchase will mean a short-
term loss of tax money for the city,
in the long term, the University's
purchase will be beneficial for the
region and the state.
"It's just going to enhance the
effectiveness ofthe University as an
economic generator. It will become
a magnet for researchers in the life
science and biotechnology areas,"
Bernstein said. "It's going to have
a huge impact on the state for spin-
off research in Detroit, Lansing,
Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids."
But while Ann Arbor has fared
better than most other cities in
Michigan, the University is not the
only institution doing its part to
stimulate economic growth.
VETERANS
From Page 1
Center is also creating a Buddy-to-
Buddy program for training veterans
to help other veterans, especially in
overcoming the stigma attached to
receivingmental health services.
"The military is really paying
attention to mental heath issues
and decreasing the stigma around
them," Spinner said.
She said that starting this
month, 900 recently returned
Michigan National Guard troops
will be paired with other veterans
in the program.
LSA junior Derek Blumke,
president of Student Veterans of
America, helped develop the Bud-
dy-to-Buddy program. When he
finished his service in the U.S. Air
Force in 2005, Blumke enrolled
at the University, a transition he

At Michigan State University,
the creation of the $550 million
Facility for Rare Isotope Beams, a
new research laboratory awarded
to MSU by the U.S. Department of
Energy, is expected to create 400
high-paying jobs according Dr.
Michael Boulus, executive director
of the President's Council of State
Universities of Michigan, which
represents the state's 15 public uni-
versities.
"We are the economic engine,"
Boulus said. "This is research that
can lead to new businesses and
thousands of new jobs. There's a
public university network in Michi-
gan like no others."
According to an analysis by the
Anderson Economic Group on the
economic impact of the FRIB, the
new facility will generate over $1
billion in economic activity over
the course of its first 10 years in
operation.
Konrad Gelbke, who will lead the
MSU team to establish FRIB, said
the facility will be one of the most
advanced research laboratories for
nuclear science and astrophysics in
the country and attract members
of the scientific community to the
region.
"We estimate that there will be
hundreds of users to visit the labo-
said was difficult.
"I was feeling like a waste of
life," Blumke said. "I was sitting
in class listening to professors
talking about subjects I could
not care about while thinking I
should be back in Afghanistan
with my friends."
Blumke experienced depres-
sion his first two months at the
University and realized there
were other veterans like him who
needed help.
He formed Student Veterans of
America in the spring of 2007 to pro-
vide support for returning veterans'
who enrolled in colleges and univer-
sities followingmilitary service.
Over the past eight months, he
has worked with the Depression
Center to develop Buddy-to-Buddy
which he hopes will help to allevi-
ate post-traumatic stress disorder.
Blumke said he began work-
ing with the Depression Center

ratory and run the experiments.
They will stay here for extended
periods of time in the Lansing
area," said Gelbke, deeming that it
will become, "a little like a tourist
industry."
Gelbke also said the lab will run
scientific meetings and conferences
that will bring researchers and sci-
entists to the area and lead to the
development of new products and
technological innovations.
"Whenever you have an assem-
bly of smart and competent people,
(there is) the development of new
products and technical applica-
tions that they can spin off into new
companies," Gelbke said.
Boulus added that it was impor-
tant for the state's universities to
create jobs to keep recent gradu-
ates in Michigan, citing a trend
that has been problematic in
recent years.
"We need a more educated work-
force to fill the openings for the jobs
of today and tomorrow. It's about
growing and retaining talent in
Michigan," Boulus said. "We can't
turn it around by ourselves. We
need the help of the state. We're
losing jobs and the first thing we
got to do is create new industries
that requires young talent, educat-
ed talent."
because he wanted to be sure
resources would be available for
him and his friends as they tran-
sition from active duty.
"You go from doing the most
important thing you're ever going
to do in your life to living in your
parents' basement or sitting in
a classroom where the students'
most important conversation
discussed is what party they are
going to tonight," he said.
Blumke said veterans don't
always like to seek assistance
because their military training
has taught them to be indepen-
dent and strong enough to over-
come anything.
The. Depression Center's pro-
grams will begin this month. In
the coming weeks, Blumke and
other student veteran groups will
be advocating for reforms to make
college campuses more accommo-
dating for veterans.

ATEF HASSAN/AP
Vice President-elect Joe Biden appears with Iraqi President Jalal Talabani, in Baghdad yesterday, during a tour of the region.
Biden visits Iraqi ofi cials -

VP-elect, Iraqi
officials discuss
troop withdrawals
BAGHDAD (AP) - Vice Pres-
ident-elect Joe Biden conferred
yesterday with Iraqi leaders after a
trip to Afghanistan, capping a tour
of U.S. battlefronts on a day when
police reported bombings killed 10
people in Baghdad.
The four attacks were a remind-
er that major violence may still
return, complicating the incom-
ing administration's plans to draw
down troops in Iraq and focus
more attention on Afghanistan.
Biden, a frequent visitor to Iraq
STUDENT-ATHLETES
From Page 1
have been criticized for accepting
the trips. A University audit in July
2007 said the practice "may appear
to be a conflict of interest."
Rothman said a student-ath-
lete's eligibility should be deter-
mined in the same way as all other
students.
"We're recommending that that
process be transferred to academic
units," he said. "In other words, if
a student is enrolled in LSA, the
academic unit would determine
whether the student met eligibility
requirements."
Despite the internal audit's
findings and objection from some
members of the public, Univer-
sity and Athletic Departient
administrators have defended the
practice. They say that because
the provost - not members of
the committee - makes the final
determination, a conflict of inter-
est does not exist.
Though the Office of the Pro-
vost has final authority on ath-
lete eligibility cases, the minutes

as a member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, met with
President JalalTalabani, Vice Presi-
dent Adel Abdul-Mahdi and deputy
Prime Minister Barham Saleh after
arriving in Baghdad. U.S. officials
issued no public statement.
But Abdul-Mahdi said they dis-
cussed implementation of a secu-
rity agreement that took effect on
Jan. 1. The accord sets a three-year
timeframe for the full withdrawal
of American forces. The Iraqis also
stressedtheimportanceofenhanc-
ing U.S.-Iraqi cooperation in fields
other than security, the Shiite vice
president said in a statement.
For his part, Biden renewed
the U.S. commitment toward Iraq
and stressed the need to contin-
before the Advisory Board on
intercollegiate Athletics between
January 2006 and January 2008
do not specifically mention the
Office of the Provost overturning
or changing any decisions made
by the APC.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham declined to com-
ment onthe issue yesterday, saying
Rothman presented an oral report
of a draft that had not been final-
ized or formally submitted.
A finished proposal will be pre-
sented at the Senate Assembly's
Jan. 26 meeting, where members
of the Senate Assembly are sched-
uled to vote on the matter.
Other recommendations in
Rothman's plan included con-
solidating academic advising,
increasing oversight on General
Studies students and improving
the University's Summer Bridge
Program, a program for student-
athletes and academically at-risk
students.
Rothman also said his commit-
tee would urge the University's
NCAA representative to "speak
out aggressively" against a recent-
ly revised NCAA standard for ath-

ue developing state institutions,
accordingto the statement.
Biden and South Carolina Sen.
Lindsey Graham had dinner with
the vice president-elect's son, Beau
Biden, and other members of the
Delaware National Guard serving
in Iraq, Biden's staff said.
Biden's trip to Iraq followed
visits to Pakistan and Afghanistan
this weekend, a little over a week
before the Jan. 20 inauguration.
President-elect Barack Obama
has promised to end the nearly
6-year-old war in Iraq and refocus
U.S. military efforts on Afghani-
stan, where al-Qaida-linked mili-
tants and the Taliban are making
a comeback after initial defeats in
the U.S.-led invasion of 2001.
lete eligibility.
Under the revised NCAA eligi-
bility standard, an athlete is deter-
mined eligible or ineligible by a
formula that weighs an athlete's
GPA against his or her SAT or ACT
scores.
Rothman's final recommenda-
tion would encourage student-
athletes to enroll in the school or
college from which they hope to
graduate. By doing so, student-
athletes could avoid graduation
delays causedby varying academic
requirements from different aca-
demic units.
Physics Prof Keith Riles, a
SACUA member, voiced concerns
about some of the recommenda-
tions and whether they would
create "watered-down programs"
for student-athletes, leading them
to less challenging academic pro-
grams.
Rothman disputed the claim,
saying he would never advocate
that.
"I'm not suggesting that we
create watered-down programs,
but that we create alternative pro-
grams," he said. "We're lookingfor
more choices, not fewer choices." ;

the michigan daily

MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hill and
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003.
VARSITY MANAGEMENT
734-668-1100, Studios, 1, 2, 3 and 4
bdrms. 09/10 on Central Campus!
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
ONE MONTH FREE!!!
Plus get up to $500 off your first
months rent!
This ends 1-16-09
*Rent a full 2 bed, get 1 entry
for the drawing
Ends 1-16-09
*applies to F, G, and H only
734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
515 Lawrence-1 LEFT
610 S. Forest-i LEFT
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. STATE-1 LEFT
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
1000 Oakland-1LEFT
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
M2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
132t N.University-1 LEFT
1 1Vaughn Street
525 Walnut- 1 LEFT
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct. -1 LEFT
1320 S. University-1 LEFT
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

NORTH CAMPUS
HEAT/WATER/PARKING
I & 2 bedrooms available now!
734-996-4992. www.HRPAA.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
services
080
INTRODUCTORY MEDITATION
COURSE, 5 Thurs, 6:15 - 8:30pm,
starts Jan 15. Six wk yoga classes:
Yoga I & II, Tues 6:30 - 8:30pm, starts
Jan 13, Yoga of Recovery, Wed 6 -
8pmstarts Jan 14, Yoga II, Thurs 6:30
- 8:30pm, starts Jan 15. Public Ser-
vices every Sunday, 9:30am or 4pm.
Zen Buddhist Temple, (734) 761-6520
or annarbor@zenbuddhisttemple.org
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
I!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefundumich edu or 763.4400.
GOT MILK? SEEKING kick a$$ pro-
grammers for cool new company.
Email info@netarx.com to meet the
owners.
THE ANN ARBOR Observer seeks 2
full-time City Guide researchers, May-
Aug. Need superb English skills, atten-
tion to detail, info-gathering savvy,
ease with people, car, knowledge of
AA. Send resume to
michael@aaobserver.com by Feb. 6.
THE MEDIA RELATIONS Office
needs an editorial assistant to work on
Monday & Wednesdays. Please send
resume to kelger@umich.edu.

TUTOR NEEDED FOR 5th grader
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday
evenings 5-6:30 p.m. @ $20/hr. Quali-
fied candidates MUST have proven
teaching/tutoring experience. Sessions
to be conducted at Ann Arbor resi-
dence. For consideration email
sdodson@thdg.com. No attachments
please.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas.
Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626-6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
Ci I Ca re
095
HOME HELPER NEEDED, 10 min.
from campus, 4-8 hrs./week, light
housework, several meals/week, gro-
cery shopping. Own reliable transporta-
tion needed. Call 734-761-8489.
PART-TIME: ENTHUSIASTIC, ex-
perienced sitter to help with our three
children, ages 1-10. Two afternoons
per week, plus some weekend/evening
times. Take children to activities, help
with homework, and general childcare.
Car is required - we'll pay gas al-
lowance. Please call 734-645-1420 &
leave a message or merz@umich.edu.
t icet s & tavel
1 00
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA
Beachfront hotel with pool. Great
Rooms, Great Rates! Within walking
distance to area attractions including
Spinnaker & Club LaVela. Stay 6
nights, 7th night FREE! Mention code
48104 for discount. www.lollye.com
1-888-565-5931.
SPRING BREAK PCB, FL: Condos
next to clubs! $215/pers. 317-407-3636.

JANUARY 148 PM
Baroque Violin Recital
by Katharia Uhde
School of Music BAM Recital Hall
WOMEN'S CHAMBER CHORUS
seeking new members, all ages. Mon,
10-11:30 am, call 734-761-5471.

For Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Old friends and acquaintances are
back in your life again. Since it's impor-
tant to have history with others, wel-
come this if you possibly can. Consider
it catch-up time.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Past issues with parents, bosses and
teachers are back in your lap again.
Actually, this is a wonderful time to.fin-
ish old business, but a poor time to begin
new projects.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Your ruler Mercury is retrograde now.
This definitely causes confusion in all
your discussions with others, especially
parents, bosses and VIPs. Allow extra
time for travel aswell.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
You're back dealing with old business,
inheritances, insurance matters, taxes
and bills. This is an excellent time to
wrap up old business; however, a very
poor time to begin new ventures.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Because Mercury is now retrograde
directly opposite your sign, partners
from the past are back on the scene. Be
as graceful about this as you can.
(Nobody wants to be miserable.)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Like Gemini, you have Mercury for
your ruler. And therefore, like Gemini,
you'll feel lots of confusion with mixed-
up conversations, delayed transportation
and canceled events. Oy!'
LIBRA
(Sept. 23to Oct. 22)
Old romantic partners and ex-lovers
are back on the scene for many of you.

Since living well is the best revenge,
take extra care to look smashing! This
boosts your confidence aswell.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Relatives you haven't heard from in a
while might be camped on your
doorstep. This is an excellent time to
rehash old family matters.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
It's easy to misplace things, forget
things and be late for things!
Communication is nuts, and transporta-
tion delays dog your steps. Oh, dear.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Checks in the mail might be late now.
However, this is a good time to finish old
business and wrap up something already
on your plate.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
With Mercury retrograde in your sign,
you are definitely plagued with all kinds
of communication mix-ups and delays as
well as transportation problems.
Courage.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Ignore feelings of self-doubt, because
these are just a temporary dark cloud on
your horizon. This influence will pass.
Don't give it any energy.
YOU BORN TODAY You're careful
and methodical in whatever you do. You
pay attention to detail. You're loaded
with charm and are easygoing about new
ideas and input from others. You need to
be active and on the go. In your early
years, you're independent and individu-
alistic. In your later years, you're ingen-
ious about promoting yourself. This year
might be one of the most powerful, forc-
ing years of your life. Dream big!
Birthdate of: Albert Schweitzer,
humanitarian; Faye Dunaway, actress;
LL Cool J, rap star/actor.

READER
KNOWS
BEST.
Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

A


8 - Tuesday, January 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

il'embraces 'nobod role Past perfection
A fter yesterday's 64-49 win every minute."e-
M over Iowa, redshirt fresh One of thosse unheralded n e

.

Perry called Michigan a "nobody."
Heading into the season, the
Wolverines were pegged to finish
in the bottom half of the Big Ten.
After all, they had set a program
record with 22 losses the season
before.
How much could they have
changed in one offseason? They
were nobodies.
But with wins against then-No.
4 UCLA and
then-No. 4 Duke JASON
on its resume, KOHLER
there are no
longer many On Men's
people writing Basketball
off Michigan as
a nobody.
That is, except for the Wolver-
ines themselves.
"You got to keep the underdog
mentality," sophomore forward
Manny Harris said, backing up
Lucas-Perry's statement. "We're
nobody right now. That's how we
like it, and that's what we want
people to think."
Everyone except the freshmen
remember what it feels like to be
pushed around night after night,
and to be the team that is expected
to lose.
Even though Michigan isn't a
consistent underdog anymore, you
wouldn't know the difference by
talking with the team. The Wol-
verines still feel like they have
everything to prove.
"Whenever any of our teams
had any success, that was my big-
gest worry - that that chip would
disappear from our shoulder,"
Michigan coach John Beilein said.
"We have a lot of high-profile play-
ers out there, but we have some
guys the Big Ten didn't recruit,
and they should be playing out
there with a chip on their shoulder

Lee, exemplifies the tenacity Bei-
lein wants from his players. In
the second half against Iowa, Lee
sailed out of bounds to save the
ball and keep a Michigan posses-
sion alive.
"We got to have a sense of
urgency and plays like that let
you know that we're trying to win
games," Lee said. "We don't have
any time to waste at this time
point in our season."
Though the Wolverines are 3-1
in conference play, none of those
wins are against ranked oppo-
nents.
Michigan faced a big chal-
lenge last Wednesday when the
Wolverines fell behind 20 points
to Indiana, this year's Big Ten
bottom-dwellers. But Michigan
showed it's not the same team
from last year and overcame the
deficit in front of a hostile crowd
at Assembly Hall.
Few teams would have had the
poise to mount that kind of come-
back, but the Wolverines are using
the lows from last season to push
themselves through this year's
struggles.
"It gave us a bigger head on our
shoulders, knowing that the ball
could've went any way," Harris
said. "We could've been sitting
here with a 2-2 record if we lose to
Indiana. We got off the hook that
game, and we didn't want to be in
that position again."
Although Michigan might not
be a "nobody" anymore, it certain-
ly has a lot to prove before it's con-
sidered a major player nationally.
And it won't be easy - four of
the next six games are on the road.
Even Beilein will acknowledge
how it's nearly impossible to pick
up wins on the road in the Big Ten.
Those next few games will be

High school standout
finds success against
Big Ten competition
By GILAD BERKOWITZ
Daily Sports Writer
Two years ago, Whitney Taney
came to college with the ulti-
mate resum6: A 166-0 high school
record and a consistent presence
in the national spotlight, being
featured in magazines like Ten-
nis, Smash and Sports Illustrated.
Her only blemish? Dropping
two sets in four years.
As a freshman on the Michi-
gan women's tennis team last
season, Taney was thrown into
Big Ten competition, where a
grueling schedule and tough road
trips made perfection practically
impossible. Entering play, the
possibility of piling up losses had
to have crossed her mind.
But for Taney, tennis had never
been about the results - so the
possibility of coming off slow
wasn't even on her radar. The
Minnesota native spent the sea-
son focusing on playing hard and
remaining consistent.
By the end of last April, she had
recorded a 21-7 record, including
an 8-2 singles record in confer-
ence play. Michigan coach Ron-
nie Bernstein believes Taney's
perfect winning percentage from
high school was vital in her tran-
sition to college.
"She knew college was going
to be different," Bernstein said,
"Being so used to winning is obvi-
ously a good thing."
Despite early success in both

singles and doubles as a fresh-
man, it took a while for Taney's
nerves to evaporate. Last year's
roster was loaded with inexperi-
enced freshmen, and while out-
siders expected the Wolverines
to start slow, Taney had to step up
immediately.
Thanks to strong leadership
from lone senior and captain Allie
Shafner, Taney and the younger
teammates relaxed and adjusted
to collegiate competition.
"Walkingonthe court with four
freshmen, there were certainly
nerves, and veterans showed
(Taney) how to work hard on and
off the court," Bernstein said.
Halfway through last season,
Bernstein moved Taney up to No.
2 singles.
Although Taney mentioned she
felt honored by the vote of confi-
dence, knew it could have been
just a temporary position.
"The lineup is exactly what it
says, just a lineup," Taney said.
A year later, she remains one of
the team's most successful play-
ers.
During the fall season, she
roamed the doubles courts due to
limited singles action from sched-
uling conflicts. She posted a 7-1
doubles record, finding success
in an area of her game that her
father emphasized when she was
in high school.
Taney hopes to improve her
record as the indoor season kicks
off in this weekend's Michigan
Invitational at the Varsity Ten-
nis Center. Last year, Taney went
undefeated at the invitational at
both singles and doubles.
And for a player who knows
what perfection feels like, you can
expect Taney to seek it again.

SAIDALSALAS/Se
Fifth-year senior CJ. Lee wasn't recruited by a Big Ten team out of hig scho
the true test of where this team team and no longer a nobody. Now
stands. it's time to see if the Wolverines
Michigan has proved it is a good are something special.

4

Blocked shots and 'D' make Hogan's job easy in sweep

M
jus
sh
Opp(
Afte
team's
weeker
sophon
made t
saves k
"Th
you're
Berens
not get
ready
good."
Eves
much t
ing of
when C
coming
The
ted th
screeni

ichigan allowed and blocking his view of the puck.
But the Wolverine defense,
t five power-play which had little trouble bailing
its goaltender out of potential
ts on goal in six jams, blocked 25 shots. Michigan
- S n allowed just five shots on goal
while killing all six of Miami's
power play opportunities Sunday.
By GJON JUNCAJ "I couldn't see anything with
Daily Sports Writer those two (Miami forwards) in
front of the net all the time,"
r the Michigan hockey Hogan said. "The defense blocking
sweep of Miami (Ohio) last shots really helped out."
nd, coach Red Berenson said The RedHawks managed just
sore goalie Bryan Hogan seven combined shots on goal in
he difficult the third period in both games.
oak easy. NOTEBOOK "We were on our heels and in
at's when our zone a lot," Berenson said. "I
playing well as a goalie," think we all understand and agree
on said. "And when you're that we have to be a better shot-
ting a lot of work and to be blocking team. And that helps the
for that next shot, he was goalies, it helps everyone and it
gets you in the game."
n though he didn't have A GOOD PROBLEM TO HAVE:
o do in Sunday's 4-0 blank- The surprisingly quick return of
Miami, there were times junior defenseman Steve Kamp-
Hogan couldn't see the shots fer to the blue line presented one
9. problem: someone had to become a
Highland native admit- casualty of depth.
e RedHawks had success Sophomore Scooter Vaughan's
ing him in front of the net streak of 25 consecutive games

played ended on Dec. 27. That was
when Kampfer returned from a
fractured skull suffered in an off-
ice assault on Oct. 12.
A healthy scratch for three
straight games, Vaughan was
inserted into the lineup Sunday
against Miami in place of fresh-
man defenseman Greg Pateryn.
Vaughan's performance reflected
a player desperate for a steady
spot in the rotation. The Placen-
tia, Calif., native notched an assist,
blocked three shots and prevented
numerous other scoring chances.
"I thought Scooter held his
own," Berenson said. "He's been
working hard in practice. There's
a fine line between Scooter playing
and not playing, and other defen-
semen as well. ... But there will be
competition on defense, and that's
good for our team."
Berenson stressed last week
that the coaching staff would not
"threaten" blueliners when they
make mistakes. But with seven
capable defensemen and just six
roster spots, the margin for error
is certainly smaller with Kampfer
back in the lineup.
STAYING GROUNDED:
Berenson indicated his play-
ers must maintain perspective
after Sunday's win because
Miami played without forwards
Carter Camper and Justin Mer-
cier. Camper and Mercier were
injured during Michigan's 5-1
victory Saturday. The two have
combined for 43 points this
season.
"Let's face it, Miami lost two
of their top three forwards in

Tuesdays Are South 0 The Border
Corona/Dos Equis Spocials All Night
$ 761ui1 .Swuis eA Vod9 4i,1'
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
,a or Bomb S oclals 10 to Close
310 A*ywdS 'N~1399.0100'~ located Aexito l(k Mayaed Pw4i Stutwe
* UHHUEiU

ZACHARY MEUSNER/Daiy
Sophomore goaltender Bryan Hogan let in just one goal and recorded 43 combined saves against the RedHawks this weekend.

(Saturday's) game, early in the
game," Berenson said. "They didn't
have the firepower that they had
going into this weekend. We didn't
beat a team that was 100 percent.
Added sophomore forward Matt
Rust: "You can't be too high and
you can't be too low. It's the same

type of focus you need to have
after you get swept."
SEE YA: For the last six weeks,
Michigan has forced numer-
ous opponents off the ice, and in
embarrassing fashion.
In four of the last eight games,
the Wolverines have chased the

opponent's starting goaltender to
the bench with strong offensive
firepower. After Michigan's three-
goal explosion in the first five min-
utes of Saturday's game, Miami
goaltender Cody Reichard became
the sixth goalie this season to be
pulled early against Michigan.

4

Ever tell your
friends you're a
better quarterback
than!Steven Threet?
Prove it.
WHAT: Rich Rodriguez and the Michigan football team are host-
ing the second annual winter open tryout for potential walk-ons. Any
University student is welcome to participate. All you need is your
high school coach contact information, proof of a physical examina-
tion within the last year, cleats and tennis shoes.
WHEN: Friday, Jan. 16. Registration begins at 3:30 p.m. and the
tryout will be from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Schembechler Hall on State Street, past Yost Ice Arena
See The Michigan Daily's SportsMc
section on Jan.19 for a recap of the

4

4

,'k


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 13, 2009 - 9

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 13, 2009 - 9
I U

We host Welcome Wednesdays every week during the school
year to connect you to the Alumni Association before you
graduate.
The Alumni Association promises you coffee, bagels, WI-FI
and magazines. Additional food, drinks and freebies may be
available at our discretion. While at Welcome Wednesdays
you can pick up business cards, blue books and learn about
the other programs and services we offer.
Space is limited and doors are open from 8 a.m. to noon.
We hope to see you soon!
January 14, 21, 28
February 4, 11, 18
March 4, 11, 18, 25
Free for all U-M students!
The Alumni Center is located at 200 Fletcher St., at the corner
of Fletcher and Washington, next to the Michigan League.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
www.umalumni.com/students


'

A


10 -Tuesday, January 13, 2009

10 -uesdy, Jnuar13, 009The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4


4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

I


