THE SOUND OF SUMMER FAIRT
The Boy Least Likely To
delivers an album sure to frs dn n
put you in a summer mood. g -prce es.
See Arts, Page 5 .. 41
(I1eEItgan DaiIj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, April 14, 2009

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS
Among $70M
in upgrades,
Couzens gets
some fix-ups

Provost Teresa Sullivan discusses potential cuts to the University's budget during yesterday's Senate Assembly meeting in Palmer Commons.
Provost outle

Telephones, capital
projects and Post-it
notes could all be on
the chopping block
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
- - - --- - ------------ 
In a speech yesterday, Provost
Teresa Sullivan offered a glimpse at
the University's budget process and
decision-making, outlining several
cuts that she plans on proposing to
the University Board of Regents in
June.
She stressed that while these cuts

will benefit the University's budget,
they will not be to the detriment of
the educational experiences of stu-
dents on campus.
Sullivan spoke in front of the
Senate Assembly, one of the Univer-
sity's leading faculty governance
bodies, to update faculty on how
the economic crisis has affected
the University and provide spe-
cific information on some things
being done to cope with anticipated
decreases in state appropriations to
the University.
"I'm not expecting us to get an
increase in appropriations," Sulli-
van said. "I just don't think that's in
the cards."
Sullivan said she is concerned

about appropriations because the
state is experiencing such tough
economic times.
"I'm not angry about it because
the legislature has a very difficult
task," she said. "They have declin-
ing revenues coming in and they've
got lots of worthy agencies and
causes that need the money."
Sullivan told faculty that though
the University has suffered from
the current economic crisis, it has
not been as adversely affected as
other schools across the country
because it has been dealing with
the state's financial hardships for
the past several years.
Sketching out some ways Uni-
versity administrators are planning

to continue to manage tight purse
strings, Sullivan discussed five spe-
cific cost-containment measure-
ments that will be proposed.
Among the recommendations,
the University will more carefully
review and likely cut back on capi-
tal projects, Sullivan said.
"We have denied or postponed
requests for capital project fund-
ing," she said. "The number of proj-
ects we were willing to go forward
with have been blocked off for
the time being until we're certain
that we can successfully complete
those."
Sullivan's statements came on
the same day that $69.5 million in
See PROVOST, Page 7

R(
vot(
pa
At
Regen
Thurso
differe
totalin
up for
The
will b
of Cou
Engine
and th
ing Str
Ren
will in
ing, ve
system
sent to
Royste
for stu
tow, t
vice pi
officer
Bat]
ditioni
throug
revaml
unusec

egents will also consideration.
The proposed renovations to the
on Engineering residence hall, located near Palmer
Field, will cost an estimated $49
building and million.
According to Peter Logan,
rking structure spokesman for University Hous-
ing, Couzens Hall, which was con-
By NICOLE ABER structed in 1925, last underwent a
Daily Staff Reporter major renovation project in 1954 -
when asix-story wing was added to
the University's Board of the east side of the main building.
ts monthly meeting this Funding for the Couzens Hall
day, proposals for three project "will be provided from
nt construction projects Housing resources and investment
gnearly $70 million will be proceeds," accordingtothe request
discussion. to the regents.
proposed $69.5 million The regents will also review
e used for the renovation a proposal for the design of the
izens Hall, additions to the Engineering Programs Building
eering Programs Building addition, which was approved in
he Thompson Street Park- December 2008.
ucture. The addition to the North Cam-
ovations to Couzens Hall pusbuildingwill createmorespace
clude new heating, plumb- for projects like the Solar Car, For-
mtilation and fire detection mula SAE and Concrete Canoe
s, according to a request teams.
the Board of Regents by E. The project would include
r Harper, the vice president improvements in "architectural,
dent affairs, and Tim Slot- mechanical and electrical work"
:he University's executive that would revamp the spaces and
resident and chief financial technological resources avail-
able for these projects, accord-
hroom renovations, air-con- ing to the request to the Board of
ng, wireless Internet access Regents by Slottow.
hout the building and a If the action requestis approved
ping of the the dormitory's by the Board of Regents, the proj-
d dining hall are also up for See REGENTS, Page 7

ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SERIES, PART 2 OF 5
Our energy future: Solar
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily Staff Reporter
Solar cells are among the most
well-known alternative sources
of energy. But Engineering Prof.
Max Shtein is working to bring
solar technology into more homes
by making solar cells more con-
ducive to daily life - like weaving
them into textiles.
Shtein said this change will
allow people to consume energy
in eco-friendly ways when using
everyday products.
"Going to the store and buying
clothes, for example, is a lot more
familiar to a lot more people than
installing a solar cell on the roof of
their house," he said.
Shtein, an assistant professor
of materials science and engineer-
ing, and a team of researchers
are developing a system to create
solar cells out of fibers that can be
woven into textiles.
"Most of those textiles are
actually dyed using organic dyes
where the molecular structure isr
very similar to the structure of the
molecules we would use to make
organic-based solar cells," Shtein
said.
Shtein has brainstormed many'
uses for his discovery including CHRISDZOMBAK/Daily
carbon fiber airplanes with solar Solar panels sit atop the Dana Building yesterday. On one sunny day in May 2005'
cells interwoven into the plane's the panels met 23 percent of the building's power demand.
structure and coats and tents made "There's a lot of instances do things they need to do," Shtein
out of solar cell fibers. He said a where you have disaster relief said.
tent that can effectively generate kind of shelters, where you want The solar cells applied to the
electricity from the power of the to be able to generate electric- fibers are very thin 'and add no
sun can solve many of the prob- ity for people to communicate, for thickness to the material. Shtein
lems caused by natural disasters. people to purify water, to read, to See SOLAR, Page 7

LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
City, county officials project
big deficits in coming years

TC
fun
for e

apping reserve bigger gap to fill, projecting to run a
$26 million deficit for the next two
ds not an option fiscal years.
Both county and city officials
ether government, point to a decline in property tax
revenues due to lower assessed
leaders say land values and the departure of
Pfizer Inc., which was the previ-
By LARA ZADE ously city's largest property tax-
Daily News Writer payer. Pfizer had accounted for 4.8
percent of Ann Arbor's total prop-
igan's staggering economy erty tax revenue in the 2008 fiscal
I an impact on Ann Arbor's year.
aancially insulated comma- According to city and county
ving the city with a project- officials, the recent budget prob-
cit of more than $2 million lems have been exacerbated by the
0 and $5.4 million in 2011. economic slowdown at the national
naw County has an even level.

At last night's City Council Work
Session, City Administrator Roger
Fraser presented council members
with his budget recommendations,
including a four-phase program to
add some stability to the city's eco-
nomic situation in hopes of dealing
with the $2 million shortfall for the
fiscal year 2010.
To handle the decline in tax
revenue, Fraser recommended the
installment of additional parking
meters on some of the city's service
drives - a change that would raise
an additional $380,000. Fraser also
recommended a 16- to 18-person
reduction in the city's police force
See GOVERNMENTS, Page 7

Mich
has had
once fin
nity, lea
ed defi
for 201{
Washte

INT ER NATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS
At campus event, UN official talks
about defining, preventing genocide

Maria Stavropoulou
argues for a broader
definition of genocide
By ROGER SAUERHAFT
For the Daily
In an hour-long talk Monday
night at Rackham Amphitheatre,
Maria Stavropoulou, a consultant
to the U.N. Special Representative

of the Secretary-General on the
Prevention of Genocide, defined
genocide and outlined ways to
combat instances of it around the
globe.
"The legal term 'genocide' isn't
exactly the same as the term 'geno-
cide' when we're talking," Stavro-
poulou said.
A mix of students and Ann Arbor
residents attended the lecture, in
which Stavropoulou explained that
genocide includes a much broader

range of atrocities than simply kill-
ing.
"The definition does not require
the killing of a single person,"
Stavropoulou said. "We can have
genocide, in theory, without killing
anyone."
Stavropoulou defined genocide
as intent to destroy national, eth-
nic, racial or religious groups, and
said that acts outside of killing that
constitute genocide can include
See GENOCIDE, Page 7




WEATHER HI: 59
TOMORROW LU 35

GOT A NEWS TIP? ..
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news mmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Men's gymnastics team arrives at the NCAAs.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

IN DEX N EW S ......... ........ ...............2 A RTS ..................S............. ..5
Vol. CXIX, No.129 SUDOKU..........................3 CLASSIFIEDS. .... .... 6
(; l vi9T eMichigan Daily OPI N IO N ...............................4 SPO RTS............................... 8
michiganidailycomn


2 - Tuesday, April 14, 2009
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers
n

W The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

WEDNESDAY:
Explained

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week


420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editnd in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandailyecom bugli@michigandailycom

One wild ride


KRI
Mustang Sally poses with her shotgun-rid ing Shih Tzu "Simba." Known for her
and close connection with customers, Mustang Sally has developed a campus

MustangSalynever rides
without Simba sitting shot-
gun in her fully decked-out
van. Simba, Mustang Sally's
miniature Shih Tzu, has
been riding with her since
Lady "M" Sedan Transpor-
tation Services opened two
years ago.
Mustang Sally only
reveals her real name,
Mryna Ismail, when
pressed -she prefers the
anonymity and mystique of
her moniker instead.
"When I came back from
surgery, I was high as a
kite," Mustang Sally said,
explaining how she came
to chose her nickname -
partly based off of a friend's
name and a Wilson Pickett
0ISTA BOY/naiy song, which she says her
decorated van customers request "a hun-
 following. dred times a night".

Some of the things that
differentiate Mustang Sally's
Car #36 from others are the
decorations. Yellow paper
Easter ornaments hang from
the ceiling of her vehicle.
When she turns on a switch,
neon green lights flicker
brightly from the aisles.
"I can't stand a plain cab,"
Mustang Sally said. "When
I used to work for Yellow
Cab, I fixed it up and called
it the 'Love Cab"'
A cab driver for five years,
Mustang Sally is well versed
in the politics of "don't ask,
don't tell"
One of her customers,
whoshesaysisawell-known
male figure in Ann Arbor,
had been riding in her cab
on different occasions with
four female companions
- none of whom, Mustang

Sally dryly noted, she could
distinguish as his girlfriend.
"I never squealed on
him," Mustang Sally said.
"And he's been a devout cus-
tomer ever since."
Her motto is that "if you
treat people like one in a
million, you're going to get
that right back."
Subsequently, Mustang
Sally also has what she calls
a "V.I.P program," where
she bakes cookies for her
customers and sends them
e-mails to check up on how
they're doing.
"I just try to be a good
parent to these kids," Mus-
tang Sally said. "Most cab
drivers just take them from
Point A to Point B. ButI just
want to love on them."
- JASMINE ZHU

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
letters tothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance


sports@michigandaily.com
display@inichigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com
finance@michigandaily.com

Office hours: sun.-Thurs.1n a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES
Laptop stolen Student injured
during bathroom after stumble
break WHERE: Martha Cook Resi-

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 4:15
p.m.
WHAT: A student went to the
bathroom leaving her belong-
ings unattended. Upon her
return, she found that her lap-
top was gone, University Police
reported. The estimated value
of the laptop is $1,200.

dence Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 10:30
p.m.
WHAT: A female subject fell
and hit her head, University
Police reported. The subject
was transported to University
Hospital where she was treat-
ed for injuries.

Lecture on
China's global
impact
WHAT: Howard French, for-
mner New York Times Bureau
Chief in Shanghai; will dis-
cuss Chnina and the "end of
the Unipolar Moment."
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHEN: 'Ioday from noon to
1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 2022, South
Thayer Building

Film screening
to mark historic
space flight
WHAT: Screening of
"Orphans of Apollo", about
the first human spaceflight
venture. Followed by pizza
reception and talk.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Today from 7p.m. to
10 p.M.
WHERE: Rackham Graduate
School

Harvard University has
opened a "Canine Cogni-
tion Lab" to study the psy-
chology of dogs, according to
the Boston Globe. Scientists
say they are interested in dogs
for their ability in certain
tasks to outperform animals
much more closely related to
humans, like chimpanzees.
The test-prep industry for
graduate exams like the
MCAT and LSAT isboom-
ing, but the high cost of classes
means that some students are
missing out on the advantage.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4.
A landlord in England
evicted some of her ten-
ants after seeing photos on
Facebook of their house party,
according to the Daily Mail.
The landlord viewed scenes of
scantily clad women, people
holding beer bottles and the
trashed apartment before real-
izing the property was hers.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:JillianBerman,Trevor Calero,Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandailycom
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
A TEDITORS:Ryan Kartje,IaneKay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
Alex Prosperi, ColtRosenweig
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block,Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins, Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,Sam Wolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing DesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
lessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michaei Schrotenbner DispiayAdveertising SaiesManger
DIPAYE RTbSINGASSOCIATE ANAERS: Dnielnge
Newman;aChristie Phillips
Ryan Businski classifiedSales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng LayoutManager
Vivian Leenand Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichigan Daily(ISSN0745-967)ispublished MondaythroughFridayduringthefalland winter
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to alreaders.
Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupattheDalysofficefor$2.subscriptionsforfalland winterterm
SotedrrunhsapsrmeriatedSs egiae:$200:arrends bsriptisns. llinSr ngand
Smssues)m a re $225. OSubsrptinsmusmt be prepaid. Thi ia a l sar t mem:n~ber osThe
Associate Prsns an h Ass c iialeiatress.

Sleeping resident
Boarders cited asked to head

Annual event to Poetry seminar

during skate
session
WHERE: Angell Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 5:15
p.m.
WHAT: 'Three subjects were
ticketed for skateboarding on
University property, University
Police reported.

to bed
WHERE: Fletcher Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 3:45
a.m.
WHAT: A subject was sleep-
ing in the upper lounge, Uni-
versity Police. The subject was
a resident and was asked to
head to his room. Police say he
was not drunk, just tired.

celebrate women
WHAT: Panhellenic Asso-
ciation's annual appreciation
tea recognizing contribu-
tions of women min the com-
munity.
WHO: Office of Greek Life
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Alpha Gamma Delta

WHAT: Sekepe Matjila and
Keith Taylor will talk about
translating of Setswana
poetry by LD Raditladi, who
combines indigenous African
and Western influences in his
poems.
WHO: Comparative Litera-
ture
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: 2015, Tisch Hall

,
{{F
WE"RE LOOKING FOR
7
t, , 'TALENTED PERFORMERS!
The Disney College Program is
seeking Animated Character

Congressman escapes
injury in Somali attack

4

Rep. Don Payne met
with the country's
top officials during
the one-day visit
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) -
Assailants fired mortar shells at
the Mogadishu airport as a plane
carrying an American congress-
man took off yesterday, officials
said. The plane departed safely,
but 19 Somalis were reported
wounded in surrounding residen-
tial areas.
U.S. Rep. Don Payne, who met
with Somalia's top leaders dur-
ing his one-day visit, said that he

had no idea of the violence until
reaching Kenya after the flight
from Mogadishu, one of the most
dangerous cities in the world and
rarely visited by foreign travel-
ers.
"We found out when we arrived
in Nairobi," the chairman of the
House subcommittee on Africa
told The Associated Press. He
said that the aircraft noise prob-
ably drowned out the sound of the
mortars.
The Islamic extremist group
al-Shabab claimed responsibil-
ity in a posting on a militant Web
site, saying it launched the mortar
barrage after learning of Payne's
visit, according to the terrorism
monitoring group SITE.

for more information call 734/615-6449
The University of Michigan College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts presents a
public lecture and reception

The militants, who have sus-
pected links to al-Qaida and have
carried out widespread attacks in
Somalia, said they "will welcome
each and every arrogant and
proud enemy of Allah" with simi-
lar attacks. "What happened to
(Payne) and his escorts was only
the beginning."
The New Jersey Democrat
downplayed the danger, saying
the African Union troops did a
good job with his security.
With the officials, Payne said
he discussed security, coopera-
tion between Somalia and the
U.S. and piracy. The meetings
came just hours after a high-seas
standoff between the U.S. and
pirates who seized an American
sea captain ended with U.S. Navy
snipers killing three pirates and
freeing the seaman.
"The pirates were one of the
main topics of discussion that I
had with the president and prime
minister there," he said "They
want to work with our govern-
ment. They have a plan to reduce
piracy, which they'll be present-
ing to the U.S. in the next two or
three weeks."
Somalia has been without a
functioning government since
1991 when clan warlords ousted
a longtime dictator, with the cur-
rent leadership failing to provide
stability or protect citizens. The
U.N. imposed sanctions in an
effort to stem the flow of arms
into Somalia, a key cause of the
mayhem.
Payne said the government
leaders were hoping for an end to
sanctions which they said would
facilitate efforts to build an army.
"The way they say you defeat
piracy is on the ground. You don't
let them get out (to sea). They feel
they have the ability to do it. They
just need the resources," said
Payne.
"If the U.S. and the world com-
munity take supportive action
towards the fledgling govern-
ment in Somalia, I am confident
that they will succeed and a new
Somalia will indeed emerge,"
Payne said in a separate state-
ment
The chaos has prompted trav-
elers of all sorts to steer clear.

John T. Groves Collegiate
Professor of Chemistry

Audition
Friday, April 17th
Sign-in: 2:30pm
Audition: 3:00pm
Dance Theatre Studio
711 N. University
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
Applicants must view an online presentation prior to
audition. Visit disneycollegeprogram.com/epresentation.

Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Alumni Center, Founders Room
4:10pm

LSA

f°' Y


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 14, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Some newspapers
in Oakland County
to stop publishing
Several non-daily newspapers
owned by Gannett Co. Inc. in Oak-
land County have announced they
will cease or merge publications
May31.
The Birmingham, West Bloom-
field, Troy and Rochester editions
of the Eccentric will close. The
Southfield edition and the observer
& Eccentric group's Mirror news-
paper will merge into a multi-com-
munity Sunday newspaper called
the South Oakland Eccentric.
The company says it will cut 44
jobs as a result of the closings and
consolidations.
The newspaper company will
continue to publish the observer
Newspapers and Hometown Week-
ly Newspapers in western Wayne
and Oakland counties.
The Observer & Eccentric and
Mirror newspapers, which had
been part of HomeTown Com-
munications Network Inc., were
sold in 2005 to McLean, Va.-based
Gannett.
BOSTON
Former Tigers
pitcher dies in
farming accident
Former All-Star pitcher Mark
"the Bird" Fidrych was found dead
yesterday in an apparent accident
at his farm. He was 54.
Worcester County district attor-
ney Joseph D. Early Jr. saids a fam-
ily friend found Fidrych about 2:30
p.m. yesterday beneath a dump
truck at his Northborough, Mass.,
farm. He appeared to be working
on the truck, Early said.
The colorful right-hander was
the American League rookie of
the year in 1976 when he went 19-9
with a 2.34 ERA. He spent all five of
his major league seasons with the
Detroit Tigers, compiling a 29-19
record and a 3.10 ERA.
His career was cut short by inju-
ries.
Fidrych attempted a comeback
in 1983 with the Boston Red Sox
and went to their Triple A team
in Pawtucket, R.I. But he never
pitched in the majors after 1980
and retired in 1983.
NASHVILLE, Tenn.
Judge hears request
to unseal 1964
Hoffa court records
Records of grand jury proceed-
ings that led to Jimmy Hoffa's con-
viction on jury tampering charges
should be unsealed because the
government may have used illegal
wiretaps and other shady practic-
es, a retired law professor testified
yesterday.
William L. Tabac told U.S. Dis-
trict Judge Todd J. Campbell that he
believes the government tampered
with a Nashville jury in the Team-
sters leader's case. Campbell said he
would rule on the request later.

Tabac also said an informant
who provided testimony that led
to Hoffa's 1964 conviction in Chat-
tanooga may have perjured himself
with the government's knowledge,
according to his research.
Edward Grady Partin, a Loui-
siana Teamster who was facing
embezzlementand perjurycharges,
provided the damaging testimony.
MEXICO CITY
* Mexico slams Burger
King for offensive ad
Mexico is protesting what it says
is a whopper of an insult.
An advertisement for Burger
King's Texican Whopper burger
that has run in Europe shows a
small wrestler dressed in a cape
resembling a Mexican flag. The
wrestler teams up with a lanky
American cowboy almost twice his
height to illustrate the cross-border
blend of flavors.
"The taste of Texas with a little
spicy Mexican," a narrator's voice
says.
The taller cowboy boosts the
wrestler up to reach high shelves
and helps clean tall windows, while
the Mexican helps the cowboy open
a jar.
Mexico's ambassador to Spain
said yesterday he has written a let-
ter to Burger King's offices in that
nation objecting to the ad and ask-
ing that it be removed. Jorge Zer-
meno told Radio Formula that the
ads "improperly use the stereo-
typed image of a Mexican."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Al Franken looks at his wife Franni, as he talks with reporters after a court confirmed that Democrat Franken won the most
votes in his 2008 Senate race against Republican Norm Coleman, outside his home in Minneapolis on Monday.
Franken ruled winner in
MinsoaSenate race

State Supreme
Court rules in favor
of Democrat after
seven-day trial
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) - A
Minnesota court confirmed yes-
terday that Democrat Al Franken
won the most votes in his 2008
Senate race against Republican
Norm Coleman, who had already
announced plans to appeal the
decision.
Coleman has 10 days to appeal
to the state Supreme Court. Once
the petition is filed, it could fur-
ther delay the seating of Minne-
sota's second senator for weeks.
After a statewide recount and
seven-week trial, Franken stands
312 votes ahead. He gained more
votes from the election challenge
than Coleman, the candidate who
brought the legal action.
The state law under which
Coleman sued required three
judges to determine who got
the most votes and is therefore
entitled to an election certificate,
which is now on hold pending an
appeal.
"The overwhelming weight of
the evidence indicates that the
November 4, 2008, election was
conducted fairly, impartially and

accurately," the judges wrote.
"There is no evidence of a sys-
tematic problem of disenfran-
chisement in the state's election
system, including in its absentee-
balloting procedures."
in its order, the judicial panel
dismissed two attempts by Cole-
man to subtract votes from
Franken over allegations of mis-
handled ballots in Minneapolis.
The judges also rejected
Coleman's argument that a state
board improperly made up for a
packet of ballots lost between
the election. His lawyers con-
ceded that the ballots' disap-
pearance rendered them invalid
and that- Coleman was entitled
to review all ballots as part of
the recount.
Coleman's lawyers claimed
dozens of ballots were double-
counted when their originals
couldn't be fed into optical scan-
ning machines on Election Day.
They said it was possible that
originals and duplicates were
included in the recount.
The ruling diminishes Cole-
man's chances of retaining a seat
that he won in dramatic fash-
ion in 2002, when he narrowly
defeated former Vice President
Walter Mondale. Democratic
incumbent Paul Wellstone died
in a plane crash with two weeks
to go in the campaign.

Franken, a former "Saturday
Night Live" comic, entered the
Senate race more than two years
ago. A third-party candidate's
strong showing left Coleman and
Franken virtually deadlocked
on Election Night, triggering an
automatic recount of 2.9 million
ballots. Coleman led by about
700 votes before routine double-
checking of figures trimmed his
edge to 215 votes heading into the
hand recount. By the recount's
end in January, Franken had
pulled ahead by 225 votes.
Coleman's trial began in Janu-
ary and his appeal could push the
race into May or beyond.
Coleman's lawyers have said
their appeal will mostly center on
violations of the constitutional
guarantee of equal protection,
arguing that counties had differ-
ing standards in treating absen-
tee ballots.
Franken's attorneys argued
that no election is absolutely pre-
cise and that all counties operat-
ed under the same standard.
In addition to the appeal,
Coleman can also initiate a new
action on a federal level. Either
side can appeal an eventual state
Supreme Court decision to the
U.S. Supreme Court or throw the
disputed election before the U.S.
Senate, which can judge the qual-
ifications of its members.

Obama eases
restrictions
on Cuba
President's changes Other steps taken yesterday
nelude expanding the things
intended to ease allowed in gift parcels sent to
Cuba, such as clothes, personal
citizens' reliance on hygiene items, seeds, fishing gear
.m and other personal necessities.
Castro regime The administration also will
begin issuing licenses to allow
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi- telecommunications and other
dent Barack Obama is allowing companies to provide cell phone,
Americans to make unlimited television and radio service to
transfers of money and visits to people on the island, and to allow
relatives in Cuba and easing other Americans to pay for such servic-
restrictions yesterday, ushering es for their relatives there. This
in a new era of openness toward step requires the participation of
the island nation ruled by com- the Cuban government, as compa-
munists for 50 years. nies can't operate there without
The formal announcement was its approval.
made by presidential spokesman Last May, President George W.
Robert Gibbs and, in Spanish, by Bush announced a new policy that
Dan Restrepo, the president's top people living in the United States
aide on Latin American policy. could include cell phones in gift
"The president would like to parcels sent to Cubans. At the
see greater freedom for the Cuban time, Bush aides said U.S. resi-
people. There are actions that he dents could pay for the cell service
can and has taken today to open attached to phones they send.
up the flow of information to pro- However, though American
vide some important steps to help cell phones with service con-
that," Gibbs said. tracts from the U.S. work on some
Gibbs said Obama is only one parts of the island, service is not
part of the equation, with the always reliable and depends on
White House calling on Cuba to the phones' specifications.
do more as well. Sending money to senior gov-
With the changes, Obama aims ernment and Communist Party
to lessen Cubans' dependence on officials remains prohibited under
the regime of Fidel Castro, hop- Obama's new policy. Restrictions
ing that will lead them to demand imposed by the Bush administra-
progress on political freedoms, tion had limited Cuban travel by
the spokesman said. About 1.5 Americans tojusttwo weeks every
million Americans have relatives three years. Visits were confined
on the island nation that turned to immediate family members.
to communist rule in 1959 when Francisco Hernandez, head of
Castro seized control. the exile group the Cuban Ameri-
Some U.S. lawmakers protested can National Foundation, was
the changes, saying they could once a staunch supporter of travel
funnel money or goods to the restrictions but backs Obana's
Castro regime. Others, backed announcement.
by business and farm groups see- It will help Cubans become
ing new opportunities in Cuba, more independent of the state
wanted Obama to go farther and "not only in economic terms but
lift restrictions on travel by all in terms of information, and con-
Americans to Cuba. tacts with the outside world," said
Officials said Obama is keeping Hernandez, who was imprisoned
the decades-old U.S. trade embar- by the Cuban government for
go - for now, at least - arguing nearly two years after participat-
that that policy pressures the ing in the 1961 failed Bay of Pigs
regime to free all political prison- invasion.
ers as one step toward normalized Miami travel agent Tesie Aral
relations with the U.S. said her phone has been ringing
RestreposaidU.S.policytoward nonstop in anticipation of the
Cuba "is not frozen in time." He announcement, with a tenfold
had no timetable for when future increase last Friday alone.
decisions might be made. "People were already planning
Obama had promised to take to travel more based on their abil-
these steps as a presidential can- ity to go every 12 months," said
didate. It has been known for Aral, owner of ABC Charters.
over a week that Obama would "Whether they can travel more
announce them ahead of his atten- frequently than that depends on
dance this weekend at a Summit the economy."
of the Americas in Trinidad and Also in that Miami speech near-
Tobago. ly a year ago, Obama promised to
"There are no better ambas- depart from what he said had been
sadors for freedom than Cuban the path of previous politicians on
Americans," Obama said in a cam- Cuba policy - "they come down
paign speech last May in Miami, to Miami, they talk tough, they go
the heart of the Cuban-American back to Washington, and nothing
community. "It's time to let Cuban changes in Cuba."
Americans see their mothers and "Never, in my lifetime, have the
fathers, their sisters and broth- people of Cuba known freedom.
ers. It's time to let Cuban-Amer- Never, in the lives of two genera-
ican money make their families tions of Cubans, have the people
less dependent upon the Castro of Cuba known democracy," he

regime." said then.

Pakistan president signs off
on deal allowing Islamic law

Measures comes
as part of peace
deal with Taliban
ISLAMABAD (AP) - Paki-
stan's pro-U.S. president signed
a regulation late yesterday to put
a northwestern district under
Islamic law as part of a peace deal
with the Taliban, going along
after coming under intense pres-
sure from members of his own
party and other lawmakers.
Asif Ali Zardari's signature
was a boon for Islamic militants
who have brutalized the Swat
Valley for nearly two years in
demanding a new justice sys-
tem. It was sure to further anger
human rights activists and feed
fears amongthe U.S. and other
Western allies that thse valley
will turn into a sanctuary for
militants close to Afghanistan.
Whatever criticism may
come, Zardari can claim some
political cover - the National
Assembly voted unanimously
yesterday to adopt a resolution
urging his signature, although
at least one party boycotted.
Earlier, a Taliban spokesman
had warned lawmakers against
opposing the deal.
Zardari's spokeswoman,
Farahnaz Ispahani, confirmed
the president signed the regu-
lation yesterday night.
His signing implemented a
deal agreed to in February by
provincial officials to impose
Islamic law in the Swat Val-
ley and surrounding areas
in exchange for a cease-fire
between security forces and
the local Taliban.
Zardari had put off sign-
ing the agreement, saying
he wouldn't until peace was
restored in Swat but never
defining what that meant. The
delay led a hard-line Muslim
cleric mediating the agree-
ment to leave Swat in anger
last week and upset lawmakers

from the region.
As pressure mounted, the fed-
eral government said over the
weekend that Zardari wanted
parliament first to debate the
accord to implement an Islamic
legal system, as long demanded
by some residents disenchanted
with inefficient regular courts.
Lawmakers made clear they
believed the deal should go ahead,
saying it would bring calm to the
area after months of bloodshed
that killed hundreds of people
and displaced up to one-third of
the valley's 1.5 million residents.
"The whole nation is united in
its support of the Swat regulation
and wantsthepresident to approve
it," Prime Minister Yousuf Raza
Gilani said at the start of parlia-

mentary debate yesterday.
Even without the president's
approval,judges trained in Islam-
ic law had begun hearing cases in
Swat, and witnesses say Taliban
fighters are in effective control of
much of the region. The provin-
cial government also agreed to
other measures under the peace
deal, such as cracking down on
prostitution and sales of movies
deemed "obscene."
Supporters say the changes in
the legal system will speed up
justice, not lead to harsh pun-
ishments or restrict the rights
of women. Critics say the agree-
ment is a surrender to extrem-
ists whose tactics include
beheading opponents and burn-
ing girls' schools.

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
Corona/Dos -Equis Specials All Night
$2 7-ejufgtn rixe&vok 4 ripn
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
Jager omb Specials 10 to Close
JIOvAtye.ArSt, -?34,"6,0100M ooted mxt to tkMaymord w~inSfnAdw
p -- u

You'll f ind it
in Aline' Ya jItl


0

4 - Tuesday, April 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

l e Iict ig n ,+ ily

ELAINE MORTON I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

t ur o 'a fVeCVf
(Wolverine) Access denied

0

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
The failure of test preps
Universities need to offer alternatives to Kaplan, Princeton
While most companies are facing financial setbacks in
the current economy, at least one industry is still boom-
ing - test-prep companies. College students' desire to
do well on graduate exams has turned this industry into a mas-
sive money-maker. The end result is that students who can afford
expensive prep services have a definite advantage over those who
can't, and this unfair advantage only serves to widen socioeconom-
ic inequality. Universities have a responsibility to ensure that all
of their students are on equal footing when they apply to graduate
schools. To achieve this, the University of Michigan, for its part,
should offer inexpensive and competitive test prep courses.

Whether it's the MCAT, LSAT, GRE or
GMAT, it's well known that the level of
success students achieve in these exams is
related to how much preparation they had
beforehand. Even the most intelligent and
qualified students can score poorly if they
come unprepared, so it's not surprising
that more students are resorting to expen-
sive commercial test preparation services
offered by companies like Kaplan Test Prep
or Princeton Review. These services give
students much better odds at scoring well
on graduate exams.
While the idea of taking a test prep
course prior to the scheduled date of an
exam seems reasonable, the price tags on
such resources are often anything but. The
cost of a package that includes classroom
instruction, course materials and online
access through private test prep businesses
can run anywhere from $1,000 to $2,000
- a fee that is out of the reach of many
students, especially in current economic
conditions.
Graduate school exams are supposed to
be objective measurements of a student's
ability to do well in a graduate program. But
when some students can afford thorough
prep courses and others can't, these exams
inadvertently become biased against less
fortunate students. The competitive edge
will go to the wealthiest students instead of
the ones who are mostintelligent. This leads
to graduate programs that are increasingly
bastions of better-off students.
Currently, the University isn't leaving

disadvantaged students with many options.
While the Career Center offers a $50 LSAT
familiarization course - the only test prep
course offered by the University for post-
undergraduate standardized exams - stu-
dents and teachers have noted that it lacks
the extensive preparation that law school
hopefuls students would need to fully pre-
pare for the LSAT. And the Career Center
recently announced that it has no intention
of expanding its test prep program.
To fix this socioeconomic split, the Uni-
versity should offer more thorough, inex-
pensive courses to all students who plan
to take graduate school entrance exams.
It's very much within the scope of the Uni-
versity's role to offer test prep courses that
will place all students on a level playing
field with the Kaplan and Princeton elite.
It's also necessary for ensuring that access
to higher education does not become pro-
hibitively expensive for students who have
no affordable alternatives to Kaplan and
Princeton.
The University could at least act as a
mediator between prospective grad stu-
dents and GSIs, offering them a classroom
to meet and prepare for grad exams. While
not the same thing as what Kaplan offers,
this would at least amount to a less expen-
sive option.
Among the many things looming in stu-
dents' mind as they sit down to take their
exam, the last thing should be whether or
not they would have done better had they
taken a more expensive test prep course.

Despite the fact that my reg-
istration date was four days
ago, I still haven't registered
for all my classes.
While this is due
in part to my own
procrastination
and hectic sched-
ule, the registra-
tion process itself
deservesesome of
the blame.
That's right, ROBERT
I'm looking at you,S
Wolverine Access. SOAVE
If you're a Uni-
versity student, you
probably understand my frustration.
The Student Business page of Wolver-
ine Access isan incomprehensible lab-
yrinth of links that are grouped under
misleading and vague headings. See if
you can answer this question: Is View
My Grades listed under Enrollment,
Academic Records or Degree Prog-
ress/Graduation? Difficulties like this
(the answer is Enrollment, for some
inexplicable reason) make navigating
Wolverine Access a pain that students
don't have time for.
The registration page is also listed
under Enrollment, and whether you
proceed from that point by picking
Add Classes, Swap Classes or Drop
Classes, the website is still going to
spill you to the same place - after
cryptically flashing the word Pro-
cessing for a few seconds. You should
immediately congratulate yourself,
but don't celebrate for more than a
couple minutes or the page will time
out and automatically kick you back
to the Wolverine Access welcome
menu. -
.But if you do make it through to
Enrollment, the truly fun part begins.
There's a Class Search option on the
Student Business page. But as far as I
can tell, it's just the exact same thing
as the search function on the Add

Classes page. The search function
is so difficult to use that you might
as well just open up the LSA Course
Guide in a separate tab.
If you're like me and don't entirely
understand what classes you need to
take in order to graduate, you'll also
have to open My Academic Require-
ments - which is listed under Degree
Progress/Graduation butnotAcadem-
ic Records - in yet another tab. This
page is actually helpful, which makes
it even more frustrating when you
take too long and it randomly spills
you back to the Wolverine Access
welcome menu. And you'll spend so
much time shuffling between My
Academic Requirements, the LSA
Course Guide, Add Classes and rate-
myprofessor.com that getting timed
out is a likely possibility.
When you've finally backpacked a
class, it still isn't as easy as just click-
ing it. You have to put a check in the
box next to the class's name (click-
ing on it will get you a description of
the class and nothing more) and click
PROCEED TO STEP 2 OF 3. At this
stage in the game, you can finally reg-
ister a class after enduringsome more
Processing.
If I haven't convinced you that
there's something horribly wrong
with Wolverine Access, just ask
around: Most University students
hate it.
For the sake of comparisons, I
asked a friend at Michigan State how
she feels about her college's regis-
tration process. Her response was
this: "They assign us a day and time
and we just search for classes using
WebEnroll. It's pretty easy." This
sounds exactly like what we do at
the University of Michigan, only you
would never think of using the word
"easy" in the same sentence as Wol-
verine Access.
Despite all these hang-ups, I'll
enroll in classes eventually. But it's
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

unfortunate that a university offering
students so many academic choices
can't come up with a.better system
for helping students make those deci-
sions.
Registering for
classes is more
difficult than ever.
This problem isn't unique to the
registration process. A story that ran
in the Daily on Friday reported that
many students have similar frustra-
tions when it comes to their advis-
ers (Students: Advice too scattered,
04/10/2009). The story listed "long
wait times for appointments, over-
generalized advice and conflicting
information between LSA advisers
and concentration advisers" as some
of the difficulties that students faced.
At the University, reliable guid-
ance and an easy-to-use system are
basic requirements that aren't being
met. Between class, homework and
extra-curricular activities, students
are busy - and registering for next
semester's classes always takes place
during the most stressful time of the
year, when papers are due and final
exams are looming. We need more
help than we're currently getting
and this should come in the form of
better advising and a more navigable
website.
And while I was typing that last
paragraph, I was timed out of the
Enrollment page. Thanks, Wolverine
Access.
- Robert Soave is the Daily's
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at rsoave@umich.edu.

6
I

I
I

i

Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Counselor's discriminatory views A conversation about race' needs
compromised job standards to include all minority groups

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers with
an interest in campus issues to become editorial board members
in the spring and summer semesters.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION.

JASON MAHAKIAN

E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU

r<'I t3 A \' 0
f c ' E nA i OVA154
R7X~l~iA~ll CstelipU
AFB 5~comm -isSE, ThiS5
i.,V$iSEf Hw~b

TO THE DAILY:
The Daily's recent editorial regarding Eastern Michi-
gan University's dismissal of counseling graduate student
Julea Ward gets the idea wrong (Getting the wrong idea,
04/13/2009). In the Daily's admirable defense of aca-
demic freedom and ideological diversity in the classroom,
and of Ward's decision that she could not provide clinical
services to a man involved in a gay relationship because it
went against her religious beliefs, it states that Ward was
dismissed "for no other reason than that they (adminis-
trators) found her views distasteful and wanted to send
a message."
In fact, the counseling faculty did not dismiss Ward for
her views. They dismissed her for her actions.
They did not dismiss her because they found her views
distasteful but rather because her refusal to treat a gay
(or for that matter, any gay) patient violates the stan-
dards of practice for the health care profession that she
hopes to enter - standards EMU has a responsibility to
make sure she understands and is able to meet. Ward is
free to believe whatever she wants about homosexuality
(though I agree with the editorial that her views are "mis-
informed, backward and wrong").
But as a potential health care provider, she is not free to
simply say she is unable to treat homosexuals as a group of
people any more than a doctor is able to refuse treatment
to people of color because he or she sincerely believes in
white supremacy or a dentist could refuse to work on a
woman's teeth because he believed in male superiority.
If Ward wanted to become a sociologist, an anthro-
pologist or a literary scholar and argue against gay rights
and gay equality in an academic setting, that would be
one thing. And in that case, she should be completely free
to hold her increasingly minoritarian views. But as soon
as she crosses into providing health services, she is not
free to discriminate against gay clients any more than a
gynecologist should be able to discriminate against, say,
wives in a plural marriage. For years, Christian conserva-
tives have told gay people that they "hate the sin but love
the sinner."
Bearing no ill will to Ward or those who share her
beliefs, I say that I hate the sin of seeing homosexuals as
inferior and discriminating against them as a result. And
I support Ward completely in her freedom to believe reli-
giously what she believes.
But if she is unable to provide services to gay people as
a result, she has shown that she lacks the basic compe-
tence required to serve as a counselor, and her dismissal
from a graduate program designed to help students learn
the established standards of that profession is entirely
correct.
Charley Sullivan
Staff

TO THE DAILY:
Matthew Hunter's recent column ignores the strug-
gles of Hispanics and other minority groups, which lim-
its conversations about race (A conversation about race,
04/10/2009). My agitation is largely due to the fact that in
this conversation on race, he failed to mention, let alone
explore, the fastest growing and indeed largest minority
group in the United States: Hispanics.
It is bewildering, yet somehow unsurprising, that such a
large group of people could have been excluded. For me, and
possibly for other Hispanics in the University community, it
is a dismaying development that while we continue to grow
and prosper in America, the history of our oppression and
cultural contributions is ignored because of the assumption
that race conversations are only appropriate between blacks
and whites. The reality is that social relations are not black-
white relations - they are white-everythingelse.
It may seem insolent to compartmentalize all minor-
ity groups into an "everything else" mentality, but this
is the reality in America. Though there has been much
advancement in the social, political and economic posi-
tions of minorities in this country, most inequalities of
the 19th and 20th centuries toward blacks, Hispanics and
Asians have changed relatively little. They remain veiled
to appease the conscience of many whites, who would like
to think that race no longer matters with the advent of
Obama. Well, race does matter, and if we are going to talk
about it, let's not forget that there are 46 million Hispan-
ics in this country - many of whom still remember being
hosed, bitten by dogs or shot when they tried to unionize.
Let's not forget that - though we are the largest minor-
ity group in this country - there have been less than 100
Hispanic representatives in Congress since the early 1800s.
Hispanics can no longer remain in the shadows when race
is being talked about, because it is not only ignorant but also
presumptuous to think that there is only one front on the
struggle for equality in this country. There are many fronts
that all need tobe addressed. If we fall into the trap of think-
ing America is only black and white, we will forget it is not.
This is not to say that blacks have not had their signif-
icant share of oppression and do not deserve their own
platform to expel ignorance. Indeed, they do. But this
platform should be present for all oppressed groups in
this country. Blacks remain the gatekeepers of racial rep-
resentation in school-boards, city councils, Congress and
here at the University. What I see happening, sadly, is the
voices of other minorities being drowned in exchange for
the simplified "black-white relations" argument, of which
Hunter's piece is a perfect example. Inequality will con-
tinue as long as ignorance exists and everyone should
quickly learn this lesson.
Benjamin Ruano
LSA senior


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, A pril 14, 2009 - 5

ALBUM REVIEW

Are we the
post-originality
generation?

11 original thought is
effectively dead." I would
attribute this quote to a
face, but this little zinger has been
spit out and
reprocessed
so many times
it has become
about as dead
as the original
thought it's
supposed to JOSH
represent. Well,
not dead maybe,
but it's at least
become a household idiom (that
is, if said "house" is situated in
the angsty nihilism of the college
campus).
Ever since the modernist
boom of the early 20th century,
which was a cultural movement
that called for a wholesale coup
d'9tat of tried-and-true artistic
conventions in favor of outside-
the-box experimentation, the
knights of the intellectual round
table have segued into discussing
postmodernism. And, in short,
postmodernism is the belief that
all fathomable modes of formal
innovation have already been
deflowered, and that all we can
do now as artists is play mix-and-
match with the modernist devices
our artisanal forebears have so
generously handed down to us.
Of all the art forms, music has
probably had the longest shelf
life in terms of legitimate inno-
vation (that is, if you boot video
games out of the equation). This
is largely due to technology's
inextricable role in sonic evolu-
tion - with the invention of each
new instrument, a new genre (or
two, or five) has followed. The
electric guitar? Hello rock'n'roll.
The synthesizer? Late '70s New
Wave and electro-pop. The drum
machine, the music sequencer and
any other techno-apparatuses of
the digital age? The birth of elec-
tronic music.
The sampler occupies a para-
doxical spot on this timeline
of musical modernization, as it
paved the way for a "new" genre
(bastard pop, mash-up, Girl Talk-
ianism, whatever you want to call
it) comprised of noises that have
already been made by other peo-
ple, serving as a sort of ambiguous
hinge between modernism and
postmodernism.
Theater's implicit niche as
the "timelessly nostalgic art
form" prevents it from being too
developmentally dependent on
technology, and relatively recent
technological advances in film
(like CGI and digital rotoscop-
ing) have served to evolve aes-
thetics rather than create new
genres (unless you count "the
Pixar movie" as a genre). But the
perpetually shapeshiftingastate
of music technology kept it a rela-
tively fluid art form up until about
the mid-'90s. Suddenly, computer
programs and digital sound pro-
cessing have given us the ability
to synthesize any noise our hearts
desired. And I guess my question
to the future of formal innovation
in music is this: What's next?
Technology has bestowed
upon us a sort of platonic dream
machine - a wish to end all wish-
es. And while digital audio pro-
grams can (and will) be infinitely
. revamped, it's hard to imagine
any device that could drastically
revolutionize the course of music
history (barring the idea of a
contraption that enables us to

hear in a new dimension and/or
induces synesthesia). It seems, at
this point, that we've sufficiently
emptied our bag of tricks.
Just look at the past few years:
All of the major musical "move-
ments" have been little more than
WANT TO
REVIEW
BOOKS?
Work for our Fine Arts Staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu.

mass pilgrimages to the nostalgia
bank. Last year, it was the rootsy
folk-rock revival, with rustic-
minded artists like the Fleet
Foxes, Bon Iver and The Dodos
dropping name-making records.
A few moments before that, it was
the disco revival, with dance-
punk babies like LCD Soundsys-
tem and The Rapture adding a
Gen-Y edge to the bouncy synth-
pop and post-punk of the late '70s.
Hell, at this rate I wouldn't be
shocked if 2009 ended up going
down as the year of the "revival
revival."
Postmodernism seems to have
reached such full swing in the
field of music that we're even
getting what are fundamentally
"pastiche bands" - bands that
harness their appeal by subjecting
us to a giant game of spot-the-
influence. Indie rock outfit Tapes
'n Tapes wears its patchwork
quilt of influences on its flannel-
wearing, counterculture sleeves,
functioning as a sort of walk-
through museum of the college
rock circuit. Like Quentin Taran-
tino. flicks, these quintessentially
postmodern bands specialize in
Using old sounds
to create new
music is all we
can do anymore.
the flattening of musical history,
compressing decades of formal
innovation into one nifty little
MP3 file.
As an artist, this notion that
original thought is effectively
dead is particularly alarming.
What's the point of calling myself
a creator when all I'm really doing
is making club sandwiches from
unconsciously pilfered fragments
of shaved ham and stagnant
culture? When my film history
GSI told us we're nothing more
than passive receptacles of a
consumerist society, my artistic
ego flipped a shit. I went down
the whole "I'm just a genetically
predisposed bundle of automatic
responses to stimuli, caught in the
pinball machine of natural law"
rabbit hole - and that's never any
fun.
But then I thought about some
of my favorite bands - bands that
continue to produce (in my opin-
ion) seminal records after this
postmodern hump. The Flaming
Lips may not have invented psy-
chedelic pop, but I think it can be
unanimously agreed upon that no
album in existence sounds any-
thing like The Soft Bulletin. And
while Animal Collective hasn't
technically invented a genre, the
band has managed to craft an
exotic sound that's undeniably its
own.
Cynics and theorists can con-
tinue to hammer out proofs that
original thought is effectively
dead - in a way, I agree with
them. But in the end, music is all
about the x-factor; something
much less tangible than any
Sony Acid Kit. And if I can create
anything that gives people the
same kind of shivers I get while
listening to a song like "Phantom
Other" by the Department of
,Eagles, I'm not going to give a fly-

ing fuck that I'm ripping off Paul
McCartney a little bit.
Bayer's column is really a
pastiche of writing from other
writers. tell him how po-mo
he is at jrbayer a umich.edu.
Going Home?
1*3
When it's time to pack up and
movesatcal as We specialize
sn packing and shipping small
loads. Computers, skis, bikes...
youa eit

>URTESY OF PLUS ONE

Before and after the bull attack.

Most I
Upbeat 'Playground' is the
perfect album for ringing in
the spring sunshine
By DAVID RIVA
Daily Arts Writer
The snow has thawed and the sun shines
bright - the annual winter
depression has faded just ***J
in time for the sophomore
release of indie's cheeriest The Boy
duo, The Boy Least Likely To. Lead
According to some, spring is
a time for picnics, long walks LikelyTo
and a renewed sense of opti- The Law of the
mism. The Law of the Play-P
ground, lined with playful Payground
melodies and lighthearted Plus One
lyrics, is the perfect sound-
track for the season.
A band with an odd name like Boy Least
Likely To must be difficult to pin down con-
ceptually and musically. The band attempts
to define itself in one song in particular, "The
Boy Least Likely To Is a Machine," which play-
fully alludes to the band's conception ("I made
a machine / called The Boy Least Likely To")
only to follow with the confusingly immature
"It feeds me shortbread biscuits / and it makes

kely to
my little dreams come true." The juvenile
antics persist throughout the album and force
a question: How does a band that creates such
happy-go-lucky songs gain the respect of the
highly pretentious scene in which it resides?
To answer this question, one must take
time to understand the band's music. The
song structures are relatively simple, but the
band's pop sensibility and creativity produce
a consistently vivacious soundscape bursting
with energy. Employment of unconventional
instrumentation, including a banjo and wash-
board combo ("When Life Gives Me Lemons,
I Make Lemonade") and a violin solo inject-
ed with buzzy synth chords ("Every Goliath
Has His David"), is vital to keeping the band's
sound interesting while avoiding staleness
and redundancy.
Ultimately, TBLLT's ability to match its lyr-
ics to the overall feel of its songs distinguish-
es Playground. "The Boy With Two Hearts"
reflects the manner in which the band craftily
connects its narrative lyrics with its music. The
track tells the tale of a young lad who is too full
of love. The "oom-pah" of the trombone evokes
the image of a boy with an awkward and unat-
tractive demeanor, but the gentle glockenspiel
line reveals his charming personality and good
intentions.
Playground's witty yet immature lyrics are
equal parts self-deprecating and self-assured.
Frontman Jof Owen sings with a severe lack

of confidence, always pondering the prospects
of love and heroism. Owen sums up this sen-
timent in "Stringing Up Conkers" when he
exclaims, "I just want to change the world in
whatever little way I can," which is followed by
an appropriately understated harmonica solo.
Some may deem this bashful optimism
refreshing while others may find it bother-
some and annoying. Still, the presentation of
the subject matter is tasteful and flawlessly
falls in line with the album's many lush melo-
dies. TBLLT's cheerfulness is never forced and
never oblivious in a Pollyanna-ish sort of way.
The closing track showcases the way TBLLT
retains its realistic perspective while toying
around with fanciful ideas. "A Fairytale End-
ing" twists the conventional happily-ever-after
tale by viewing it with a much more rational
perspective. The song introduces themes of
gallantry and childish bravery before snapping
back into the harsh truth of reality.
The closing line, "Limping off into the sun-
set / with our tails between our legs / Mutter-
ing quietly to myself / and wondering if this
is the way that / my fairytale ends" seems to
come to the conclusion that valiant ambitions
may not always come out as one intends. In this
sense, TBLLT puts into practice the lessons it
sings about: It takes valiant stabs at creativity
without sounding too ambitious, which, fortu-
nately for them, results in songs that contain
meaning that is deeper than it first appears.

An unusually nuanced cop show

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
It seems like too many TV pro-

grams have
been avoiding
the unusual.
There are
about five tele-
vision genres
and - with
the excep-
tion of a few

The Unusuals
Wednesdays
at 10 p.m.
ABC

standouts -
they all have the same predictable
plots. ABC's new crime-comedy
"The Unusuals," however, merges
genres in an attempt to break with
often-used molds.
When off-duty NYPD Detective
Burt Kowalski is murdered, Casey
Schraeger (Amber Tamblyn,
"The Sisterhood of the Traveling
Pants") is promoted and paired
with Kowalski's former partner,
Detective Jason Walsh (Jeremy
Renner, "28 Weeks Later") to
find the killer. However, Sergeant
Harvey Brown (Terry Kinney,
"Canterbury's Law") reveals to
Schraeger that the department
is corrupted, and her real job is
to uncover the detectives' many
secrets in hopes of nabbing the
infiltrator.
"The Unusuals" doesn't just
feature gritty murder crimes.
In fact, its best moments come
from smaller cases that ordinary
crime shows would never think to
feature. In the premiere, Detec-

tives Eric Delahoy (Adam Gold-
berg, "Saving Private Ryan") and
Leo Banks (Harold Perrineau,
"Lost") tried to bring down the
man responsible for a number of
cat thefts. First disappointed to
be stuck with such a dull assign-
ment, they ended up taking it
too seriously, and humor ensued
when the detectives gave the cat
thief a hardcore interrogation,
Flight down to shoving a bright
light in his face.
One particularly original ele-
ment of the show is that it comes
back from commercial breaks
with amusing broadcasts from
dispatch - one instructed officers
to watch out for a man dressed as
a hot dog who "may or may not
be yielding a samurai sword."
The dispatches also provide an
excellent example of the level of
detail in "The Unusuals": The
hot dog-samurai-swordsman
as well as the other suspects
described by the dispatch can
be seen in the station's back-
ground throughout each epi-
sode. These clever moments
give "The Unusuals" a style
distinct from other crime
shows.
"The Unusuals" is com-
prised of an impressively tal-
ented cast, and its characters
have well-defined, bizarre
personalities. Banks is a safety
freak who never removes his
bulletproof vest, but his part-
ner Delahoy seems a bit eager

to get himself killed in the line of
duty. Their opposing natures lead
to a genuinely comical relation-
ship, and each actor plays his role
commendably.
The most disappointing aspect
of "The Unusuals," though, is
that it's not really that unusual
(apart from the wacky subplots).
It even has a
hot-dog ninja.
There weren't many surprises
in seeking out Kowalski's mur-
derer - the romantic chemistry
between Schraeger and Walsh
is pretty predictable, and the
corrupt detective is revealed in
the first episode. It's all a huge

letdown for those who like to
theorize along with the protago-
nist. The show's promotional ads
boasted "a different kind of cop
show" and shoved the idea down
everyone's throats, but, while
"The Unusuals" is definitely not
boring, it's also not the ground-
breaking masterpiece ABC makes
it out tobe.
Still, the characters' wit and
intelligence and the strange cases
they try to solve compensate for
some of the show's predictability
and unoriginality. These qualities
may be lost on those who are put
off by the show's reliance on sub-
tle cleverness and weird subplots
rather than its main storyline.
Hopefully, new twists will be pre-
sented as the series continues and
"The Unusuals" will earn a spot
among TV's best.

*ucrnu m i


I

Clementa
a novel
Jim Martin
in 3 future world where hcrumnkind
has learned how to thrive in harmony
with a flourishing Nature, an oppressed
People awakens to its rage.

Mi1353navoav.com

2Pleas visit cletmentais'vel.coms.


6- Tuesday, April 14, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A1

""!!"!! "!r PARKING!!!!!!!!!!!
We got YOUR"'spot at one of our
"Prime" lots! Call 734-761-8000 for
the locations & rates!
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
0.O
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space. garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
$$REDUCED RATE$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom 909 Church
Great Location! Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water, and park-
ing included! Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-000
primesbcomn
Studio & 1
Bdr, units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Q(et & ii P Seu . Hr - tneu ok r Cs( a,
Cal iBnan e
734-663-153
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beatiful, spacious, quiet. Fauished or
unfurnished. Laundry.
free parking, free heataand water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL. C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.Ls245.
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LLASES! This special will not
last long, when they're goe, they're
gone! niversitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Let's
make a deal. Avail. Fall 09. On
Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free offstreet
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
*3 & 4 bdrm Houses, A/C, free prkg.
& !dry., close to campus, 734-649-7571.
*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrn. apts.
Fall 09. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

I

FREE PIZZAOR BUBBLE ISLAND
COUPON WITH EVERY NEW
TOUR UNTIL THEY'RE GONE
*REDUCED RATES ON 2 BEDROOMS*
We offer many amenities such as,
FREE Wireless Internet, FREE
Food Every week, Workout room,
Outdoor Pool, Study Lounge,
TV Lounge, Laundry room,
24 attended Lobby, Great
Maintenance, Free Rentals,
Free Heat and Water included
with every apartment.
STOP BY TODAY AND FIND
OUT MORE DETAILS ABOUT
OUR LATEST SPECIALS
YOU'LL SEE WHY WERE
STILL #1
University Towers Apartments
536 South Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furs. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties.Great for UM footballefans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
1001 S. FOREST
- Great Campus Location!
" Large 2-bedrooms for 2 - 4 people!
- (734) 668-1100
* www.varsitymanagment.com
1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
- Great Old West Side location!
. Large 1 & 2-bedrooms!
" (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
1346 GEDDES
- 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
" Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
1350 GEDDES ACCROSS from
CCRB Large single family house. Too
much to list. 734-475-2577
martbalt . comcast.net
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin Idry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM APT. May - Aug. Packard @
Greenwood. $990. Pkg, wshr, dryer
mcl. 734-717-2935.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
og room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wiisonwhitemanagement.com
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.

331 CATHERINE
- 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
" Kerrytown! - need we say more?!?!
- Or separate 3-bdrm apts; we'll accom-
modate you!
* (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.com
331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May - May!
- 1-bedroom private entrance and porch!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +±
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappmanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, Idry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
418 E WASHINGTON
- Grad Students Galore!
" Mature, quiet study environment!
" (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
1 BDRM. & EFFAPTS
$450-$6501
SEPT.20091
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and somee
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwtitemanagement.com
515 & 521 Walnut
" CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
- 1 & 2 bdrms of all shapes atd sizes!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
- Just off West Quad!
- Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
"(734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only I
me. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only 1 mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3000 neg. plus mtil. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May '09 to August '09 at
$1200/muonth and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
848 TAPPAN
- ON Central Campus near B School!
- Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy I-bedroom!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
904 S. FOREST at Hill, apt. # 2. Avail
May '09 or Sept. '09-'10, 4 bdrss, com-
pletely updated. 734-475-2577
martbalt(c)comcast.net
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.

r i
r
r .
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
wll waive the applcation fee and reduce
security deposit to one month's rent
r 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
-. -. .-. ... - - - - - - -
Rooms, studios, and 1- to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
917 PACKARD
- Business & Law School so close!
- Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit osr web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperti es.com
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathontravis Ssbgloba.net
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE MAY LOCATION!
Corner of South Forest and South U.
Rooms-eff. 1/2 bdrms. 734-996-2836.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $14,820
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
=-$16,656
See what we mean...

!ALL 2 BEDROOMS ON SALE!
GET THE LOWEST PRICE'S NOW.
RENT BEFORE YOU GO HOME.
**ENDS APRIL 30, 2009
734-761-2680
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most inet., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE located
near Geddes and South University. Can
accommodate six. Contact Michigan
Realty at 734-662-5500 or
wwwmichcomrealty.com EHO.
ROOM FOR RENT in nice, clean
condo. Females only, non-smoking.
$350/month Sept-Sept incl. util. Free
prkg and Indry. For more info contact
Rachel at rachelvg fumich.edu
PROPiRTY MANMEtiNlT
0*-ad 4*
19 Great Locaticns
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www ,anarbOrapartnmets net
or Visit US at
1700 Geddes AVe.

FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-701-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., idry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng~aicomcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NORTH CAMPUS
Don' Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet, beautiful location!
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Reduced Rates
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
2 B nn

PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
nver view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

wuutouanrs, eco
Management
lalimess and LawstSients
varsty ha
Greaet catlWnl
GreatPrices[
Great APuNenltsl
Calltdayfo'ra persemgalleerl
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
SIGN THIS MONTH,
& SAVE BIG!!!
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing-needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
su blet
070 -Jd 0
AMAZING SUBLET AVAIL for
Spring/Summer. 904 Church St. prkg,
Indry, big lawn, price neg 810-772-9691
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully fern. $350/person or best offer.
Right near bus stop. 513-315-6273.
estesb@umich.edu

6

0

HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week- To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, fonnat. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WRITE YOUR LIFE STORY!
A creative writing workshop with Gail
Balden on May 30, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
Ann Arbor Friends Meetinghouse
1420 Hill Street, Ann Arbor
www.creativejourneys.net
503-368-7807

I


RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Mutt 40 Product with 56 Lion's warning
1 E-junk 5 _Jackson: earbuds 57 Mystique
5 Honshu port rapper Ice 41 Upper body 58 It may be
10 No.-crunching Cube's birth strengthener ear-piercing
pro name 44 Crunchy 59 "Leave _ me"
13 Shakespearean 6 Jean of "Saint sandwiches 60 Plains native
betrayer Joan" 47 Most spiffy 61 Big Apple
14 Fancy calligraphy 7 Make _,forit 49 Speaks like Daffy enforcement org.
strokes 8 Relatives 50 Plundered 64 It's used for
16 Wahine's gift 9 Org. with Patriots 54 In a furtive way battering
17 11:00 a.m. and Jets 55 Mega- or 65 Flightless big
restaurant 10 Extended family giga- ending bird
patrons? 11 Animal hide
19 The whole 12 Has a bug ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
enchilada 15Predatory lender S T OW H A I L P A C E S
20Oceancolor 18Plastic,soto E R I E A N N O O D O R S
2Emase an e 2speak T ALL I G O R S E I N E
23 Cahoose's plaee 22 Egg an FULLOFO E
24 "I'm fuh-reezing!" 24 Out of shape? F U L L 0 F 0 N E S E L F
26 Held title to 25 Made over
29 Fraternitynerd? 26 Like most movie E A T I T A M O U R U L T
34 Ace the exam rentals S O B A L A D R E D
36 Caboose's place 27 Angler'sboot H A L F B A K E D I D E A
37 Deadlocked 28 Explosive stuff, W A R E S H E S S A
38 Bannedhbug killer briefly E L M SH A RID L Y R I C
39 Advicefrom the 30 Drive away S T R A T O E R A E C O
auto club? 31Sidestep E M P T Y P R O M I S E S
42 Ginger 32 Went sniggling B A S I E A S I S A NA T
43 Nounlfollower, 33 Patched pants O C T E T WA D E G A G A
4fen paB3 s PASSE ST ES OP E.R
450Big oaa 35 Livelihoud xwordeditor@aoltcom 04/14/09
4RCrnriahitr

*Ft
Hot

z edrooms:
726 State Street
909 Church helpJwanted
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University **"
411 High
819 Brown
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
all Furnsh apatent tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
*Free Ethernet training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
* Fre hentd water_____________
Free heat and water EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
(* At most locations) needed ASAP. Earn up $150 .per day
OLD TOWN REALTY being a mystery shopper. No experi-
612 Church St. ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
(734) 663-1989
(734)tow63-8ty989 FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
uses Available for Fall 2009 pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
All Prices Reduced!! telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
8 Bedroom House LAB INTERNSHIP FULL-time in-
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400 ternships in rheumatology research
available for spring/summer semesters.
7 Bedroom Houses Duties may include: signal transduc-
406 E. Jefferson $3,850 tion, gene therapy studies, cell culture,
1220 Prospect $3,850 proliferation, chemotaxis, ELISA, IHC,
334 Catherine $3,850 western blotting, protein purification,
in vivo studies, lab org & maint,
6 Bedroom House reagent prep, data entry/analysis. Prefer
952 Greenwood $3,600 some lab experience. Contact
(May or Fall Lease) axilla@umich.edu with resume (pdf).
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300 Classifieds~
942 Woodlawa n$2,060
624 Church $2,995 c
ig a $500.00 gift card to a store t x
choice with every signed lease
f these available houses!!
'WW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
Nalk, MED, DENT, and Campus

Offerin
of your
of
W
5 &
5 min. w

4urocoae n unter
of film
48 Whimsical
Barbie?
51 Future
sunflowers
52 Deadlocked
53 Fed. workplace
watchdog
55 Military bigwigs
58 Answer
62 " said it!"
63 Guile
small-minded?
66 Seasoned salt?
67 Patriot Adams
68 Organ knob
69 The Sixties, for
75 Like dirt roads
after rain
71 Pigeon-_
DOWN
1 Bro and sis
2 Downsize
3 Juanita's water

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16
17 18 1
20 21 22
23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33
34 35 36 37
38 39 40 4f 42
43 44 45 46 47
48 49 50 61
62 63 54
55 56 57 68 59 80 61
62 63 64 66
66 87 68
69 70 71
By Billie Truitt 04M 4/0
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

a

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day priorto publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per line for each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequencyand Buk contracts are available- contact our stafflfor details
" Students may receivea 20% discountiwhen adsare placed in personwith a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
* We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

a



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 4, 2009 - 7

PROVOST
From Page 1
new University projects were pro-
posed in documents prepared for
this Thursday's Board of Regents
meeting.
Sullivan said she and other
administrators are also currently
exploring purchasing and out-
sourcing possibilities that would
allow the University to utilize its
size and scale.
Specifically, Sullivan said she
was currently exploring changes to
the University's telephone service,
as many phones on campus aren't
used within the course of a month.
"Twenty percent of the tele-
phones at the University nei-
ther receive nor make a call in a
month," Sullivan said pointing out
that eliminating some phone lines,
especially in residence halls, could
save money.
Additionally, Sullivan said limit-
ing vendor options could allow the
University to qualify forlower pric-
ing, saving the University money.
"Why should we let people buy
28 colors of Post-it notes? Couldn't
we get by with just 14 colors of
Post-it notes instead?" she said. "If
we can limit vendor options in that
way, we can typically achieve cost
savings in what the vendor even-
tually charges us."
Sullivan also said a one-year
waiting period for the University's
retirement savings plan would be
implemented for all new hires.
"For new hires there will now
be a waiting period of one year
before the retirement savings
plan begins," she said. "That one
change surprisingly saves about
$6 million a year, which is a lot of
money for the general fund."
Sullivan discussed changes that
REGENTS
From Page 1
ectwould involve a10,000-square-
foot addition to the east side of the
building and would cost about $4.8
million which would be funded by
the College of Engineering. The
project would be completed in the
fall of 2010.
At Thursday's meeting, the
Board of Regents will also review
a revised design for a $15.7 million
addition to the Thompson Street
Parking Structure.
The addition, which was
the michigan daily

will be made to employee health
benefit plans as well. The mea-
sure, which was discussed last fall
and was officially made public last
month, will increase employees'
expected contribution to health
care plans from 20 percent to 30
percent.
Finally, Sullivan said University
administrators would review their
processes and develop a set of best
practices for the use of gifted funds.
Sullivan said that together
these proposals, which will likely
be paired with other cost-cutting
measures, will help to cut expenses
while not interfering with the qual-
ity of education offered to students.
Over the past several years,
the University has made several
similar cost-cutting measures,
which have saved approximately
$135 million. Some measures have
included combining information
technology services to increase
efficiency, implementing more
energy efficient processes and bet-
ter using existing classrooms.
Thefinalizedbudgetproposalwill
be submitted to the Board of Regents
at its June meeting. Last year was
the firstcyearthebudgetwas submit-
ted in June. Previously the budget
had been submitted in July.
Sullivansaidby finalizingthebud-
get in June, incoming freshmen will
know what tuition will be earlier in
the summer, but that the University
will thenbe put atcgreater risk.
"That was a change I initiated,
because I thought it was funda-
mentally unfair to freshmen for
them not to have any idea what
they were going to be paying until
sometime towards the end of July,"
she said. "The trade-off is that our
freshmen will know sooner what
their tuition will be, but we'll
be less certain about what state
appropriations will look like."
approved by the Board of Regents in
April2008, needed tobe redesigned
in orderto receive constructionbids
that would fit the approved budget.
According to an action request
submitted to the Board of Regents by
Slottow, the project would include
both a 365-space parking structure
addition to the west end of the park-
ing structure and a 9,000-square-
foot addition for office spaces for the
departments of Parking and Trans-
portation Services and the Office of
Budget and Planning.
The construction for the project
would be completed in the fall of
2010, according to the proposal.

GENOCIDE
From Page 1
ethnic cleansing and rape.
Audiences members said the
nuances of the term as defined by
Stavropoulou - despite its preva-
lence in everyday vernacular -
were initially confusing.
"It's slightly confusing because
it doesn't have to involve killings,"
said LSA junior Alissa Ng. "The
general consensus has been is that
it only involves killings and wars,
people don't seem to know the
rest."
When warning signs of genocide
arise, such as hate speech, the U.N.
Department of Political Affairs, of
which Stavropoulou is a member,
becomes responsible for monitoring
the situation and deciding whether
or not genocide is taking place.
Stavropoulou noted that coun-
tries nearly always find themselves
in denial in such situations, greatly
slowing down the system and lead-
ing to inefficiency.
"The firstcthing that kicks in from a
country is denial," Stavropoulou said.
"Countries also act in denial because
they don't want to commit troops or
funding. The entire discussion starts
to revolve around whether or not it's
a genocide, instead of what should be
done to stop it."
Stavropoulou named the Inter-
national Criminal Court, estab-
lished in 1998 and independent of
the United Nations, as one of the
most notable developments in fight-
ing genocide.
SOLAR
From Page 1
said he discovered that bundles of
fibers in a textile absorb more light,
making the textile more efficient at
collecting energy than a regular, flat
solar cell.
Solar panels are one of the most
common means of obtaining solar
energy. Through the use of photo-
voltaics, solar cells convert sunlight
into electricity.
Though solar panels provide a
way to capture light energy, Univer-
sity scientists are working on new
and improved methods to harvest
energy from the sun.
"The sun is a terrific energy
resource for humanity in general,"
said Stephen Maldonado, as assis-
tant professor of chemistry. "The
output of power that reaches the
earth from the sun is several times
as much energy as people use every
year."
Maldonado and his team of
researchers are studying and
designing systems that convert
solar energy into chemical bond
energy, which can be used to make
electricity.
"We work with materials that are
similar to what's found in photovol-
taics or the solar panels you see on
people's houses," Maldonado said,
"but those typically operate for solar
to electrical energy conversion, and
we're much more interested in mak-
ing systems that mimic photosyn-
thesis in plants."
One of the disadvantages of solar
cells is that the generated electric-
ity must be consumed immediately
because it cannot be stored for long
periods of time.
Maldonado said plants are good at
converting solar energy into chemi-
cal bond energy for making chemi-
cal fuels. Using plants as a model,

the research team hopes to devise
a system that can store solar energy
in chemical bonds for long-term
storage - similar to how energy is
currently stored in gasoline and fos-
sil fuels.
United Solar Ovonic - based out
of Rochester Hills, Mich. - is the
largest producer of flexible solar
cells in the United States. Flexible
solar panels are sometimes more
useful than regular solar panels
because they can be applied to
curved surfaces like dome-shaped
stadiums.
On average, United Solar Ovonic
sells three to four solar panels a
week to customers in Michigan.
United Solar Ovonic Sales Engi-
GOVERNMENTS
From Page 1
that he said would likely come in
the form of an early retirement pro-
gram.
If the city's budget problems
persist into fiscal year 2011, Fraser
recommended an additional round
of budget cuts that would include
permanently closing the Ann Arbor
senior center - a change that would
save $141,000 - and turning over
She city-owned Mack Pool to the
Ann Arbor Public Schools, which
would save $59,000.
City Council is expected to
approve the city's 2010 budget by
the end of its meeting on May 18.
Ann Arbor's Chief Financial
Officer Tom Crawford told the
Daily in an interview in January
that city officials do not want to
take money from the city's $16

ANN ARBOR BASED company, IM -e M *
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the 81 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
xprienP An simpl er pschogy Island House Hotel and Ryha's Fudge
meperimet Uon sMplOe pehrceta j5umg- Shops are looking for seasonal help in
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 m. all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
session, pays $25. To qualify, must he Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
18+, a native English speaker, and have - discounted meals avail-
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #: ab nCu a yan d ( e)63 -
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at www.theislandhouse.com
nkalaida@med.umich.edu

United Nations official Maria Stavropoulou
Additionally, Stavropoulou said
democratic governments preemp-
tively fend off genocide, though the
long transition period that often
must occur for democratization is
at times conducive to conditions
that lead to genocide.
Stavropoulou said that oftentimes
in international politics enacting
change can be slow a process.
"Although the U.N. is made up
of governments, it takes decades
to advance just a little bit on any-
thing," Stavropoulou said. "It takes
neer George Zaharopoulos said the
company has seen an increase in
sales since President Barack Obama
passed the stimulus package, which
included tax incentives for renew-
able energy investors.
"People are more persuaded to
use solar because they get reim-
bursements and rebates from their
state," he said.
According to a survey conducted
by AltaTerra Research Network last
November, solar energy installation
is on the rise. Results from the sur-
vey showed a 52 percent growth rate
of newly installed solar energy each
year until 2012.
Geological Sciences Prof. Joel
Blum believes there are major
advantages to alternate energy
sources.
Blum teaches GEOSCI 344 Sus-
tainability & Fossil Energy: Options
& Consequences at Camp Davis,
the University's Rocky Mountain
field station ngar Jackson, Wyo. The
course - which educates students
about the scientific and environ-
mental issues related to sustainable
and traditional fossil energy sources
- will be offered for the first time
this summer.
While Blum is an advocate for
using renewable forms of energy,
he said Michigan is one of the worst
places in America to capture solar
energy.
"Michigan is a very cloudy place,"
Blum said. "It doesn't mean that
ifs not feasible and shouldn't be
done, but it makes much more sense
in sunny places like the Western
United States where you have much,
much, much greater annual solar
radiation than you have in a place
like Michigan."
Despite Michigan's cloudiness,
the University decided to installt
solar panels on the roof of the Dana
Building when it was renovated in
2004.
Bill Verge, the associate director
of Utilities and Plant Engineering at
the University, said the University
installed solar energy collectors in
an effort to become more environ-
mentally friendly and reduce green-
house gas emissions.
"I'm a firm believer in the fact
that global warming is occurring
and that we have to move away from
fossil fuels," Verge said. "And I think
that solar energy is one of the best
opportunities, even in the state of
Michigan."
Helaine Hunscher,programcoor-
dinator of the Center for Sustainable
Systems in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment, wrote
in an e-mail interview that the solar
million in reserve funds to relieve
the financial deficit because it
would use a one-time source of
funding for recurring expendi-
tures.
While it is possible that the

city could receive stimulus fund-
ing from the federal government,
Fraser said the city does not have
plans to depend on federal funding
for the 2111 budget.
"It's notsomethingthat's turning
around quickly as everybody envi-
sioned," Fraser said of the stimu-
lus bills approved by Congress in
recent months.
At last night's working session,
Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje
said that based on the state of Ann
Arbor's economy, it is unlikely the
city will see additional revenue
from stimulus funds.
"If money is handed out based on
need, we will be the last on the list
because so many communities have

a very long time for the U.N. to act
on these atrocious situations."
Despite namingthe manyhurdles
in combating instances of genocide,
Stavropoulou stressed the U.N.'s
commitment to such situations and
the importance of maintaining a
presence in at-risk areas, beyond
when the subjects disappear from
headlines.
"Any individual with sufficient
power to commit or incite others
to commit genocide is, for us (at the
U.N.), somebody to be stopped."
panels on the Dana Building don't
generate enough electricity to sus-
tain the entire building. The angle of
the sun and cloud conditions affect
the photovoltaic output of the solar
panels, and the power demand of
the Dana Building varies by occu-
pancy and the use of equipment and
lights.
However, the system has shown
positive results, Hunscher wrote in
the e-mail.
"In 2005, the solar panels gener-
ated 35,000 KWh (kilowatt-hours)
of energy which is enough to light a
100-Watt bulb for about 40 years,"
Hunscher wrote.
She added that on a sunny day in
May 2005, the panels met 23 per-
cent of the power demand of the
building.
Although the solar panels are
not providing an immediate reduc-
tion in utility costs, Verge said the
University will seea payback in cost
reductions in 15 to 20 years.
She added that the main value
of the technology is to use it for
educational purposes by involving
students from the School of Natu-
ral Resources and Environment in
monitoring the system and evaluat-
ing its effectiveness.
In spring 2008, the University
also installed a solar collector on
the top of the University's Central
Power Plant that helps heat water
in Central Campus facilities. The
collector is the first of its kind to be
installed in the United States and
can heat water up to more than 200
degrees Fahrenheit. Its estimated
25-year lifespan will offset the costs
from future fuel increases.
Verge said the University is look-
ing into installing more alternate
energy sources like solar panels and
solar collectors down the road.
"However, the price needs to
come down quite abitbefore we can
utilize it in a large scale," he said.
Another group on campus is
investing in solar energy - not for
powering a building, but for run-
ning a car.
The University's Solar Car Team
is the largest student project on
campus. Involving about 100 stu-
dents from different schools on
campus, the team works together to
build a car to race in competitions
held every two years.
This year's car is as tall and long
as a normal car and can reach a
top speed of 87 miles per hour. The
one main difference from a regular
car is its six square meters of solar
cells on the roof, which are used to
charge the vehicle's lithium ion bat-
teries. Additionally, the car is only
greater need than we do," Hieftje
said.
At the county level, Washtenaw
County Administrator Robert
Guenzel gave a bleak forecast for
the 2010 and 2011 fiscal years in
terms of the county's property tax
revenue.

"I don't know when we'll hit the
bottom," he said. "That's almost a
weekly or monthly observation."
Property taxes currently make
up 66 percent of the county's gen-
eral fund.
Washtenaw County Commis-
sioner Mark Ouimet, District 1, said
because property values contribute
to so much of the county's revenue,
there's no way around cuts in order
to balance the budget.
Departmental reductions and
reorganization are part of the coun-
ty officials' strategy to increase rev-
enue,but the plan won't be finalized
until Sept. 1.


However, Stavropoulou said that
the U.N. does not use watch lists
due to the fact that if some regions
are watched too closely, there is an
inherent risk of forgetting about
other areas.
"What is not on the radar tends
to be forgotten, and that's usually
where the problems are," Stavro-
poulou said. "If you look at various
watch lists from the past few years,
it's the underreported situations
where problems really tend to
arise."
600 pounds - driver included.
Engineering senior Steven Hech-
tman is the project manager of the
Solar Car Team. He said while solar
energy is useful for charging the
car's batteries, the amount of energy
obtained from the sun is very limit-
ing.
"Our solar cells only pull in as
much power as you use for a hair
dryer," he said. "So if you compare
it with the horsepower of a regular
car, there's not enough energy com-
ing from the sun to power a real
heavy vehicle."
Hechtman said the next genera-
tion of consumer cars will probably
include solar cells on the roof - cit-
ingthe nextToyota Prius as a vehicle
that will use solar energy to charge
a certain percentage of its battery.
However, he said it's unlikely
there will ever be a car that runs
solely off the power of the sun.
"If you want a carthat's the size of
a normal car, the weight of a normal
car, with all the features of a normal
car, there's no way you can power it
completely by the sun," he said.
Even though solar energy may
never be able to generate enough
power to fully run vehicles, it has
the potential to greatly reduce fossil
fuel consumption around the world.
Moreover, the developments
made by University researchers
shows that solar energy could pro-
vide at least a part of the solution
Michigan's economic troubles.
Shtein and Maldonado agree
that a concerted effort to produce
solar cells in Michigan could have
a huge impact on the state's eco-
nomic situation.
Shtein said Michigan is well-
suited for large-scale production
because of the automotive industry.
"You have a highly trained work
force, you have very good manu-
facturing capacity and here people
know howto scalethings up," Shtein
said. "In solar cells a big problem is
scale up. We're not making enough
of them fast enough."
Maldonado said if researchers can
create an alternative energyresource
that's more uniformly distributed,
they could potentially restructure
the way society operates.
"If that technology can be devel-
oped here within the state of Michi-
gan and cultivated here, that would
give Michigan an insight in terms
of being a major player in that sort
of energy redesigning," Maldonado
said.
He added: "Getting involved in
solar energy is really a sort of hot
ticket itemthatncould really have a lot
of financialgain if it's done right."
Ouimet said in addition to
departmental changes, the county's
financial situation could improve if
the state's economy rebounds from
its recession quicker and if property
values start to rise.
However, Ouimet stressed that
the countywould nottryto increase

revenues by dipping into the coun-
ty's approximately $8 million fund
balance, a sortofemergency reserve
fund. He believes that would only
be a short-term fix.
In order to replenish the fund
balance, future cuts would need to
be made, Ouimet said.
"Unless you change the way
you're doing business, you're stuck
with the same problem next year,"
he said.
County and city officials have
also looked into joint projects to
reduce costs on both levels - for
example, combining computer sys-
tems or streamlining fire services.

discusses the ways her office works to prevent genocide.

For Wednesday, April 15, 2009
AEIES
1March 21 to April 19)
You're very idealistic today. You feel
sensitive and particularly tuned in to the
wants and needs of others. (This makes
you a very sympathetic companion to
others.)
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You find it easy to put the interests of
others heforee your own today. You'll do
things for people that others consider to
be selfless on your part. To you, it's per-
sonally rewarding.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
You'll enjoy working with groups to
help others. Charitable causes or organi-
zations like Amnesty International,
Greenpeace or trade unions will appeal.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
You can be a role model for others
today. People look to you for direction
whether you're aware of this or not.
Therefore, be kind and compassionate to
set a worthy example.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Vacation fantasies and dreams of
travel to exotic places fill your thoughts
today. Others have great ideas about
higher education, publishing, the media,
medicine and the law.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Either someone will be generous to
you today or you'll be generous to oth-
ers. You might have an opportunity to
raise funds or use the wealth of others to
help someone.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Your sympathies with loved ones and
partners are so in tune with them that all
your relationships are copasetic today.
It's easy to get along.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 33 to Non. 21) .
Co-workers are helpful today because
you're extra sensitive to their needs and
wants. You find it easy to pay attention
to what they're saying. Naturally, they
love this.
SAGITTIUlS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Use your creative talents today!
You're in touch with your muse. You'll
enjoy creating anything with your hands.
Relations with children ore sweet and
loving.
CAI'RICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
samnily relationships are mutually
symnpathetic today. IThis is anm excellent
day to entertain family. Some will
indulge in the luxurious purchase for
your home.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Don't worry if you spend time day-
dreaming today. Your imagination is in
overdrive, and you need to mentally
indulge yourself. (We all need days like
this.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Don's give away she frmt oday. If'
shopping, keep your receipts,ecause'
you're tempted to go overboard on luxu-
rious items. However, you also feel gen-
erous to others, which is a good thing.
YOU BORN TODAY You're always
interested in a wide variety of things.
Fortunately, because you're well-
organized, you often achieve skills in
many areas. You can create and manage
organizations. You also can create
themes in a physical sense. You're not
only creative; you're practical and full of
common sense. A valuable combination!
An important choice awaits you this
year. Choose wisely.
Birthdate of: Leonardo da Vinci,
artist/inventor; Bliss Carman, poet; Alice
Braga, actress.

)2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.



8- Tuesday, April 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Backfield could be backbone

Sophomore Manny Harris (left) and junior DeShawn Sims say they're a package deal.
Harris and Sims
id i
conie oSptions

By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
When sophomore guard Manny
Harris hopped onto the stage at the
Four Points Sheraton to receive the
Bill Buntin Most Valuable Player
award, junior forward DeShawn
Sims followed him.
Harris received the award from
Michigan coach John Beilein and
then handed it to Sims.
"He deserves it," Harris said.
As the two headed back the seats,
Beilein quickly joked, "Can we do
that? If both of you come back and
stay next year, we'll let you both
have it."
The big question surrounding
the Michigan basketball team at
its annual year-end banquet was
whether Harris and Sims would be
back with the Wolverines next sea-
son or bolt to the NBA.
After Michigan's second-round
loss to Oklahoma in the NCAA
Tournament, it seemed that there
was no gray area. Harris and Sims
were definitely coming back.
"I love the college game," Har-
ris said at the time. "I still have a
lot of work to do before I make the
jump."
Beilein has insisted all along that
his two stars make an educated

decision and explore their options.
"It's sort of a rite of spring where
I think they should think about
things for a long time," Beilein said
before the banquet. "They should
find out where they are and where
they would be if they ever did
decide to come out. But finding out
where you are and coming out are
two different things."
Harris and Sims are being coun-
seled by an advisory board led by
Stu Jackson, the NBA Executive
Vice President of Basketball Opera-
tions. The board has been giving the
players a sense of where they would
stand if they were to enter the NBA
draft in late June.
Beilein said he has a feeling of
what his players are thinking, but
he wouldn't comment on it.
Harris and Sims said they are a
package deal - if one goes, so does
the other - and they will make a
decision later this week.
If the Wolverines lose Harris
and Sims, they will lose 48.3 per-
cent of this past season's offensive
production. Harris was a first-team
All-Big Ten selection and Sims was
second-team. When asked what
they would do if they were forced to
make a decision today, both players
said they would be coming back to
Michigan.

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
Last season, then-junior Brandon
Minor led the Michigan football
team with just 533 total rushing
yards. It had been 45 years since a
Wolverine led the team with fewer.
But now, with
a solid offensive NOTEBOOK
core around him
and the other running backs, the
ground game could become one of
the team's biggest strengths.
The Wolverines return four run-
ning backs who started at least one
game last season. Veterans like
Minor, senior Carlos Brown and
fifth-year senior Kevin Grady have
shined in spring practice.
"I believe you've got to have a
number of tailbacks - more than
two, more than three," Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez said. "You've
got to have at least four ready to win
with.... The more competition you
have, it raises everybody's level. We
have some backs that their role may
be different than others."
Rodriguez said he wanted to give
his younger players more playing
time Saturday and avoid injuring
his top players. Minor was limited
to just a few carries in Saturday's
spring game, but he will likely be
the Wolverines' top back in the fall.
Brown has had his moments, like
last season against Northwestern
when he rushed for 115 yards on
23 carries, or during a three-game
stretch in 2007 when he averaged
over 103yards per game. But injuries
have plagued his career and pre-
vented him from establishing much
of a rhythm in the backfield.
Now at full strength, Brown
showcased his speed and strength
allspring.InSaturday'sspringgame,
he broke free for an 82-yard run.
Grady looked good Saturday,

too. After promising freshman
and sophomore seasons, an ante-
rior cruciate ligament injury in
2007 and a DUI charge last August
marred Grady's career. But coach-
es have been impressed with his
recent spring performance.
"Part of what we've talked about
is that everybody is going to have
a role," Rodriguez said. "If they
embrace that role as well as they
can, we're going to be a better foot-
ball team. Carlos is one that does
that and understands that. Kevin
is the same way. They've both had
outstanding springs."
Early-enrollee Vincent Smith
showed off his speed towards
the end of the spring game with a
25-yard run in the "overtime" ses-
sion. Despite his 5-foot-6,158-pound
frame, Smith has shown toughness.
"(Smith's) probably one of the
most gifted guys we've got back
there, as far as being able to jump
cut, press a block and get north and

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Carlos Brown had an 82-yard run in Michigan's spring game on Saturday.

south," Rodriguez said. "From what
we've seen this spring, he's got a
chance to be in the mix. Again, there
is a lot of things that freshman backs
have to learn,but he's on his way."
Add sophomore running back
Michael Shaw, who missed the
spring to have surgery on a sports
hernia, and redshirt freshman
Michael Coxto the mix, and carries
this fall will be tightly contested.
ALUMS WEIGH IN: Several for-
mer players were on hand Saturday
for the alumni flag football game,
including quarterback Rick Leach
(1975-78), linebacker Larry Foote
(1999-2002) and receiver Desmond
Howard (1989-91).
All three were optimistic about
next season. Despite the Wolver-
ines' youth, Leach said he thought
the team would showvisible growth
in Rodriguez's second year. .
"I'm anxious to see what hap-
pens," Leach said. "I knew (fresh-
man quarterback) Tate (Forcier)

when he was being recruited. I've
stayed in touch. Iknowhis family....
There's going to beups and downs,
but he's tremendously accurate as a
passer, he's got great mobility and
he loves football."
Howard pointed to Rodriguez's
improvement in his previous stops
- West Virginia went 3-8 in Rodri-
guez's first season and 9-4 the next
year - as evidence that Michigan
will be better. And though the Wol-
verine defense still needs to adjust
to first-year defensive coordinator
Greg Robinson's system, the grow-
ing pains will be less noticeable.
"(Robinson) told me he's going
to have ... a defense that is going to
keep pressure on quarterbacks so
they can never get comfortable,"
Howard said. "He said it's like a
school of 11 piranhas. It's like 11
piranhas in that little fish bowl
your teacher used to keep on her
desk with the little goldfish in it.
Imagine 11 piranhas in that thing.
It's like a frenzy."
DEFENSIVE DOWNSIDES: How-
ard might see defensive piranhas
in Michigan's future, but few were
around Saturday. Robinson didn't
want to show too many of his
schemes too early, and the defense
looked less than spectacular.
Senior Brandon Graham saw
limited action for the same reasons
as Minor, and sophomore defensive
tackle Mike Martin did not play
due to injury. Redshirt sophomore
defensive end Ryan Van Bergen
-left the field midway through the
scrimmage with what Rodriguez
called "not a major knee thing."
"We have a lot less experience up
front and at the safety positions,"
Rodriguez said. "I like our gdlys'
attention to learning new termi-
nology defensively, but we've got a
lot of work to do there because of
inexperience."

I

0

0

0

The Daily: A trip to remember

t was 8 a.m. on a summer
morning in 2007, and my cell
phone was ringing.
Wondering who could possibly
be calling so early, I croaked a

groggy hello.
On the other end of the line was
Michigan alum J. J. Putz, then
the All-Star closer for the Seattle
Mariners. As the star ballplayer
apologized for
waking me up
- bethought
I was still in
Michigan,i n
not my home
state of Cali-
fornia - I ran
downstairs COLT
to put him on ROSENSWEIG
speakerphone, --
turn on my
recorder and conduct an interview.
A month later, I found myself
behind the scenes of the USA
Championships for men's gym-
nastics,just a few feet away from
the best gymnasts in the country.
Among the champion athletes was
a group of Wolverines, who wel-
comed me with big smiles and hugs.
None of it would have been
possible without the Daily. And
though nothing quite turned out
the way I expected - I thought I
was destined to write baseball - I
wouldn't change a thing. If Karl
Stampfl hadn't finally succeeded
in dragging me to 420 Maynard in
the second semester of my fresh-
man year, I wouldn't have stayed'at
Michigan for fiv vers T nhale

would have just gone to classes,
hockey and football games, and I
would not have had nearly so many
amazing memories.
I've covered the extraordinary
men's gymnastics team, made
the kinds of friends who will last
a lifetime and had unforgettable
adventures.
There was the game the Michi-'
gan men's club rugby team brought
me along for in Columbus, where I
stood in the drivingsleet and wind
for three hours with a coach using
me as a shield - and I couldn't stop
smiling the whole time.
There was the time in 2006
when, planning atrip to Okla-
homa for men's gymnastics NCAA
Championships, I unwittingly
booked myself a room in a hooker
hotel. Upon my arrival, I got myself
transferred to the cushy Sooner
Hotel by playing the Daily card and
then ended up hitching a ride to the
arena with an Oklahoma student I
met as I wandered around lost.
There was that 10-hour drive
to Minnesota at 4 a.m. with two
travel buddies - both of whom
instantly conked out as I attempted
to see the road through the pitch
blackness and snow flurries.
I've met wonderful people like
Russell Czeschin, Dylan Carney,
Kyson Bunthuwong, Derek Helsby
anri Mitchell1Mnv-who finncly

broadened my gymnastics world
beyond the Wolverines.
And one of the positive conse-
quences of this crappy economy is
that it was cheaper for me to ride to
away meets with the team I've cov-
ered for four years. I'll never forget
the impromptu karaoke parties
that sometimes rose in the back of
the bus, with 15 boys belting out
old songs because they were too
happy to do anything else.
Practice became as routine for
me as it was for the athletes I cov-
ered. Each day, as I sat down in my
"cozy spot" by the floor exercise, I
felt a quiet contentment that I don't
think I'll find elsewhere anytime
soon.
"There are six empty chairs
here," Michigan assistant coach
Scott Vetere used to point out
(before he realized it was futile):
"And you're sittingon the floor."
It was the best seat in the house.
I've gotten to watch this team
develop from a squad that missed
NCAA team finals in 2006 into the
confident group that won a confer-
ence championship this year. I've
watched these athletes get their
hearts broken and seen them rise
to unbelievable heights. The day
after Michigan won Big Tens this
year, one of the team moms hugged
me, saying she was happiest for me
- that, after years of covering the
team for the Daily, I got to go out
on such a high note.
When the Big Ten champion-
ship win got top billing on that
SportsMonday, I eagerly watched
the gymnasts pick up newspapers
at the Coliseum. I'll never forget
the smiles that spread across their
faces.
And without the Daily, I might
not have even known this team
existed. I'd never have found this
"job" that made me happier than
anything in the world.
It never felt like work.
So thank you, Ian Herbert, for
encouraging me when I needed it
most. Thank you, Jack Herman,
for teaching me (without knowing
it) that it is a beat writer's duty to
make the road trips. Thank you,
Scott Bell, for all the props that
made me feel valued. Thank you,
Andy Reid, for all the times this
season you've joked, "(Michigan
men's gymnastics coach) Kurt
Golder is goingto be pissed next
year!" Thank you to all my fellow
writers who have made this whole
crazy ride so-special, and thanks
to "the Kids," who always sup-
ported me.
Graduating into the frightening
"real" world, I know I'll treasure
these last four and a half years
more than ever. I've had the time
of my life.
- Colt is in Minnesota for
the men's gymnastics NCAA
Championships, just as she promised
her "freshmen" she would be.


