' SEX TOY TALK C
How a trip to the Safe Sex the Stearns Co Cti
* Store became a journey s home for thou
through sexual literacy. uniq
SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
(1b4e 1Nidc~igan &iIa.1j

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, October 15,2009

michigandaily.com


MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Rodriguez
backs off
GPA claims

PHOTO COURTESY OF TOM COPT
Bruce Wasserstein (third from right) stands with fellow Daily staffers in 1966 during an emergency meeting over a disagreement with the Board in Control of Student Publications.
Wasserstein dead at 61
Daily alum revolutionized the world of mergers

Notion that team
had highest GPA
ever not based on
data, official says
By MATT AARONSON
and JACOB SMILOVITZ
Daily News Editors
Michigan head football coach
Rich Rodriguez distanced himself
yesterday from an assertion he has
made in the past that this year's
team had the program's "highest
GPA ever recorded."
Rodriguez said in a statement
posted yesterday on the Athletic
Department's website that he
made the claim "several" times in
the past. The most notahle among
them was during his Aug. 31 press
conference in which he defended
the program against a Detroit
Free Press story that alleged the
team violated NCAA rules regard-
ing practice time and offseason
workouts.
"They're working hard in ath-
letics, and they're working hard
in academics," Rodriguez said
at the press conference, discuss-
ing his players' work ethic on
and off the field. "And they've
showed that in the balance, in
that endeavor, in the way they've
recorded the highest GPA ever
recorded."
He added: "And as a coach, I am
very, very proud of them."

Readthe University's
responsetothe Daily's
infimationrequestonour
website, richigandaily.com.
After the press conference,
The Michigan Daily request-
ed, through the Freedom of
Information Act, the cumula-
tive grade point average for the
men's football team for every
year since they won the NCAA
National Championship in 1997.
According to a report in the Free
Press published online today,
the Detroit paper made a similar
request.
Both informationrequestswere
denied.
"No responsive records exist,"
Patricia Sellinger, the University's
Freedom of Information Act coor-
dinator, wrote in the response to
the Daily.
In a recent interview, Kallie
Michels, associate vice president
for communications for the Uni-
versity, said that Rodriguez used
the unconfirmed metric as a way
to motivate the team.
"The goal was to motivate his
team," she said, adding thatRodri-
guez felt his players could accom-
plish their "personal best" if they
were "motivated academically."
Rodriguez had requested the
data, but Michels said University
officials "don't calculate that kind
of stuff."
Instead, when Rodriguez
requested the data, officials
from the University's Academic
See RODRIGUEZ, Page 7A

By NICOLE ABER In finance,
DailyStaffReporter Wasserstein is
perhaps best
Bruce Wasserstein, whose savvy known for
decision-making and pragmatic developing a
disposition lead him on a trail of more aggres-
successes from the University's sive strategy
campus and The Michigan Daily in mergers and
newsroom to the loftiest positions acquisitions WASSERSTEIN
on Wall Street, died Wednesday at - now termed
the age of 61. the "hos-
Wasserstein, the chairman and tile takeover." But for those who
CEO of Lazard, an investment worked in the Daily newsroom in
bank, was first hospitalized Sun- the mid-to-late 1960s, Wasserstein
day due to an irregular heartbeat, was known for his shrewd report-
according to the Associated Press. ing, strategic and brilliant mind
The cause of death is still not and jumbled appearance.
known. Born in Brooklyn on Dec. 25,

1947, Wasserstein - who started
his career as a lawyer - quickly
became a Wall Street luminary by
the early 1980s. He brokered one of
the biggest deals of the 20th cen-
tury: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts's
takeover of RJR Nabisco, a deal
canonized by thebook "Barbarians
at the Gate." He also facilitated the
industry-altering Morgan Stanley-
Dean Witter and AOL-Time War-
ner mergers.
Long before his days of billion-
dollar dealmaking, Wasserstein
attended the University of Michi-
gan for his undergraduate edu-
cation and served as the Daily's
executive editor from 1966 to 1967.

As a reporter and editor, Was-
serstein covered numerous top-
ics during a tumultuous time on
campus and at the Daily. Accord-
ing to Mark Killingsworth - the
Daily's editor in chief from 1966 to
1967 - Wasserstein's most notable
coverage was of the University's
response to a subpoena from the
House Un-American Activities
Committee in September 1966.
That coverage, according to
Killingsworth, demonstrated the
underlying intelligence that would
be Wasserstein's trademark for the
rest of his life.
"He was a very hard-headed,
See WASSERSTEIN, Page 7A



UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL

PUBLIC GOES PRIVATE

New center to reexamine 'U' ventures now under one roof

child advocacy process

Law School received
$5 million from U.S.
* Children's Bureau
By LAURA BRUNNER
For theDaily
Today, the laws and systems gov-
erning how cases involving a child's
well-being are handled vary from
state to state. But that could all soon
change with the establishment of
a new center at the Law School,
which officials say will overhaul
the way child advocacy operates in
this country.
The University's National Quali-
ty Improvement Center on the Rep-
resentation of Children in the Child
Welfare System was created after
the Law School received a $5 mil-
lion grant from the U.S. Children's
Bureau of Health and Human Ser-
vices.
The new center will focus on
reconstructing, improving and
standardizing child advocacy pro-
grams nationwide.
Don Duquette, a clinical pro-
fessor of law at the University and
director of the Law School's Child
Advocacy Clinic, will lead the new
center, which will partner with
the American Bar Association,
National Association of Counsel for
Children and KidsVoice - a child
A advocacy group.

Duquette and two other profes- said. However, this is not necessar-
sors will work at the center and ily true for cases in Michigan and
focus on the entire child welfare other states.
system, including all public and In each case, attorneys and
private services that protect chil- guardians want the child pro-
dren from abuse and neglect - tected, but it's difficult to balance
like psychologists, counselors and competing interests, Duquette said.
Child Protective Services. Sometimes a child is taken from a
Duquette said the center will act home for too long and is hurt that
as a pioneer in the field, which until way. Other times, the child is left
in a home where abuse or neglect is
still present.
"There is a huge division and
Center could not a general consensus,"'Duquette
r h* said. "We are going to want to tease
reshape nation's out what differences there are in
e r hone of these cases versus the oth-
The project's end goal in to come
welfare system. to a conclusion ahout the ost
effective means of balancing these
competing interests.
Duquette explained they hope to
now has not had widely accepted accomplish this by meeting three
norms. goals of the grant.
"For the field it's quite exciting," First, they plan to change the
he said. "I am really excited about structure of the child advocacy
this project." system across the country. Sec-
The center will analyze the out- ond, the research team will look
comes of each kind of case and into the discipline and standard-
assess the difference in standards ization of child advocacy law and,
across states, with the goal of find- finally, categorize and publish the
ing what is most effective and best empirical data found in their clini-
for children. cal trials.
Currently, in some states, like "This project will allow us to
Washington, a guardian who is not be creative in designing .mod-
a lawyer must be appointed to each els of child advocacy that seem
child under 12 years of age to work promising and then to run dem-
with the child's attorney, Duquette See ADVOCACY, Page 7A

With one-stop shop,
Michigan Venture
Center hopes to
encourage startups
By JILLIAN BERMAN
Daily NewsEditor
In hopes of spurring more inno-
vation from faculty and research-
ers, the University is launching
the Michigan Venture Center, a
"one-stop hub for University of

Michigan technology," according
to Jim O'Connell, the associate
director for business formation at
the University's Office of Technol-
ogy Transfer.
The aim of the center isto bring
faculty inventors closer to venture
capitalists and entrepreneurs who
can help them turn their inven-
tions into viable startups.
"The University has a tremen-
dous number of technology oppor-
tunities," O'Connell said. "We
have a chance to license those
out to big companies that are out-
side the state, but when there are

opportunities to create companies
or jobs inside Michigan, we like to
do that."
"We want to make sure those
things don't pass us by," he added.
O'Connell said that though the
center brings together resources
that already exist at the Universi-
ty, the move makes the office more
"high profile." That will encour-
age, he said, faculty inventors to
start businesses who might not
have considered doing so other-
wise.
He added that the center's goal
See VENTURE, Page 7A

MORE SOUP FOR YOU
- . t ~ame

JAKE FROMM/Daily
At Hollander's, a specialty store in Kerrytown, Barb Gibson demonstrates how to make buttercup squash soup with the help oftstore
employee George Rodgers yesterday. The event was part ofna series oflcooking classes throughout the fall in Kerrytown Shops.


WEATHER HI: 42 GOTA NEWS TIP?
TOO W LU33 Call 734-763-2459 ore-mail
TOMORROW L: 3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Giveme the farmland and nobody gets hurt.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS 2..................... .......2A SPORTS.. . ...........A
Vol CXX,No.28 SUDOKU...........3....... ..- A CLASSIFIEDS.................,....6A
(2009TheMichigan Daily OPINION............................4A THE B-SIDE.. ...... ..,....... 1
michigandaily.com"''''1B


2A - Thursday, October 15, 2009
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Instituting a race and ethnicity requirement

All current LSA students
must take one course address-
ing issues of race and diversity
before graduation - but that
wasn't always the case.
The University's diversity
course requirement passed on
Oct. 8, 1990, according to an
article published in The Mich-
igan Daily Oct. 9, 1990.
The article reported that
LSA's Faculty General Assem-
bly voted 139-90 to approve a
mandatory course for under-
graduates "examining the
meaning of race, ethnicity and
racism."
After three years of
debate, the General Assem-
bly welcomed the new course
requirement with "applause
and cheers."
Then-History Prof. Ter-

rence McDonald, who now
serves as dean of the Col-
lege of Literature, Science
and the Arts, co-authored
the proposal and told the
Daily at the time that three
other diversity proposals had
been presented to the faculty,
though only one of them was
seriously considered.
That plan, termed Proposal
A, focused only on "ethnic
and racial intolerance in con-
temporary American society,"
according to the Daily article.
The faculty had voted against
it 99-50 the previous April.
The Daily article quoted
McDonald as saying that his
Faculty Proposal included a
broader range of disciplines
and directly involved faculty
in the development of diver-

sity courses.
While Proposal A focused
only on diversity in the United
States, the Faculty Proposal
looked at those issues in any
society. ThiswayLSAstudents
could satisfy the requirement
by taking courses like Jews
in the Modern World, Dutch
Culture or Introduction to
Anthropology.
Students stood divided over
the new requirement, as the
Daily reported in an Oct. 10,
1990 article.
"It would get people to
confront issues they wouldn't
ordinarily," LSA senior Nicole
Susser told the Daily at the
time.
Chad Reidler, an LSA
freshman, was more critical,
arguing that requiring such

a course eliminated choice.
Reidler also told the Daily that
because of the University's
emphasis on racial and ethnic
diversity on campus, a manda-
tory course was unnecessary.
Although the Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly did not take an
official position, its president,
Jennifer Van Valey, expressed
both enthusiasm and skepti-
cism over the proposal in an
interview with the Daily at the
time.
"I will always be in favor of
a diversity requirement," Van
Valey told the Daily.
However, she added the
broad range of classes would
not force students "to look at
the way racism is constructed
in their minds."
-DYLAN CINTI

James Olekszyk, contemplates his Scrab-
ble options as Steve Lawrence, co-founder
of the Ann Arbor Scrabblers, looks on.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
=aca ichigandaity com tmdbusine s@ itco
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:Sun.-Thurs.ta.m.-2a.m.
.734-732459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photoponichigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
.acobSmilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson; Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jgnna
ASSISTAN E WSEDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasui
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandailycom
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
ndp leid ManagingSpotsEdior reid@mochigandaily.tom
SENIOR SeOS EDcITORSos~le Auervacv, Mike Eisesi,Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,ChrisMeszaros,RyanPodges
DaVdWatnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,,WhitneyPow
ASSS T ARTS EDITORS: JoshuaSayer, Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, David Riva,
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Cif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothrigen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS: Max Collins,Chris Dzombak, Sam Wolson
AngelatChihand desim@michigandaily.com
MaureentStych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copychief mtchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak SsMnaer
KALE FORCE MANAGER: MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASS] FIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreu Laout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Dailys (ISSN0745-967>is published Monday throughFriday duringthefallandwinter
termsbystudentsattheUniversityof Michigan.onecopyisavailablefreeochargetoalreaders.
Additional sopiesmay be pickedup atthetaly'sofficefor$s2.Subscriptionsforfalltermstartingin
September, viaU.s. mail are $110. Winter term(anuary through April) is $15, yearlong (september
through April)iis$19.University affiliates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.on-campus
subscriptionsforIa1le oare$3.Svltptidnsri bpspeaidvsheMichiglnoMiyi rs stef
ThssociaedrsP, nM hs5soiated Colleiateress~

CRIME NOTES
Appliances
abandoned at
dumpster's door
WHERE: 700 block S. Fifth Ave.
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9 a.m.
WHAT: Various appliances
were left near a dumpster
owned by the Sports Coliseum
without permission, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.
Gym theft
WHERE: CCRB
WHEN: Tuesday around 11 p.m.
WHAT: A student's gym bag
with a cellphone, a wallet and
other "personal property"
was stolen while the student
played basketball between 9:30
p.m. and 10:45 p.m, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

0

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Marker malice
WHERE: Palmer Drive Com-
WHEN: Tuesday around noon
WHAT: A person wrote in ink
on a poster, damaging it, Uni-
versity Police reported. Police
know of a suspect and are inves-
tigatingthe situation.
Bicycle larceny
WHERE: Life Sciences Insti-
tute Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about 11:45
a.m.
WHAT: A black 10-speed
bicycle, which had been
locked, was stolen between
10/1/2009 and 10/8/2009, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
estimated combined value of
the bike and the lock is $165.
There are no suspects.

Source-citing
workshop
WHAT: An informational
session on importingcitations
from the Internet and creating
formatted bibliographies.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m. to
5 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Room 206
International
jobs panel
WHAT: A panel featuring
student interns, returned
Peace Corps volunteers will
discuss opportunities in the
foreign and civil service.
WHO: Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Wiell Hall, Room
1120

Health care
reform panel
WHAT: A panel discussion
on health care reform featur-
ing University professors and
researchers.
WHO: Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall, Room
1120
Lecture on
women's rights
WHAT: Faye Wattleton the
co-founder of the Center for
the Advancement of Women,
will speak about the unfin-
ished Women's rights agenda.
WHO: Center for Education
of Women
WHEN: Today at 5p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Audito-
rium, Fourth Floor
" Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

An NBC affiliate in Los
Angeles reported that Pabst
Blue Ribbon Beer sales are
up 25 percent this year. Accord-
ing to their report, sales have
increased because of marketing
campaigns aimed at increasing
sales among"hipsters."
2The Stearns Collection
ofhMusical Instruments
on North Campus hous-
es about 2,500 old and rare
instruments.
">FOR MORE, SEETHE EB-SIDE
3USA Today is reporting
that a controversial bill that
would require the Census
Bureau to ask people whether
they are in the country illegally
is scheduled for a Senate vote
on Wednesday. If it passes, this
would be the first time the Cen-
sus Bureau asked this question.

0
0
0

MORE ONLINE,
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/thewire


FOLLOW US ON TWITTER @MICHIGANDAILY
ake sure students
into the right crib.
Fall Realty Page
The AnnArbor Ordinance doesn't stop students from
thinking about housing early, so why should you? Advertise
leases for now, May, and Fall zoio Reach over 40,000
students and other University members.
Presentedby The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22+"
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.com

0

MichiganEngineering

The Promise of
Green Technologies
Bill Joy
'Partner
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
Co-founder
Sun Microsystems
Thursday
October 15, 2009
4 p.m.
Penny and Roe Stamps Auditorium
Adjacent to
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr.
Drama Center

11


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 15, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
* LANSING
Mich. lawmakers:
No gov. shutdown
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm and Republican Senate
Majority Leader Mike Bishop said
yesterday they don't expect anoth-
er government shutdown over the
budget, but they didn't seem close to
agreeing on anything else.
The two met for just over an hour
yesterday afternoon before speak-
ing separately with reporters.
Bishop said he told Granholm he
sees no need for additional tax rev-
enue to enact a yearlong budget for
the state, and warned her against
vetoing items in the budget bills.
"What she's going to do, if she
decides to veto, is to unilaterally
de-fund sections of the budget,"
he said. "They're still pursuing tax
increases that are unnecessary at
" this time. They're bad for Michigan.
And we're going to stand strong."
Granholm told reporters that she
urged the Rochester Republican to
compromise on limited tax and fee
increases she says the state needs to
pay for college scholarships, Medic-
aid, K-12 education and money local
governments use for police and fire
protection.
NEW YORK
Dow Jones shows
economy recovering
When the Dow Jones industrial
average first passed 10,000, traders
tossed commemorative caps and
uncorked champagne. This time
around, the feeling was more like
relief.
The best-known barometer of the
stock market entered five-figure ter-
ritory again yesterday, the most vis-
ible sign yet that investors believe
the economy is clawing its way back
from the worst downturn since the
Depression.
The milestone caps a stunning 53
percent comeback for the Dow since
early March, when stocks were at
their lowest levels in more than a
decade.
"It's almostlike an announcement
that the bear market is over," said
Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst
at Jefferies & Co. in Boston. "That
is an eye-opener - 'Hey, you know
what, things must be getting better
because the Dow is over 10,000."'
WASHINGTON
Obamacalls for $250
Soc. Sec. payment
President Barack Obama called on
Congress yesterday to approve $250
payments to more than 50 million
seniors to make up for no increase in
Social Security next year. The Social
Security Administration is sched-
uled to announce today that there
will be no cost of living increase next
year. By law, increases are pegged to
inflation, which has been negative
this year.
It would mark the first year with-
out an increase in Social Security
payments since automatic adjust-
ments were adopted in 1975.
"Even as we seek to bring about
recovery, we must act on behalf of
those hardest hit by this recession,"

Obama said in a statement. "This ad-
ditional assistance will be especially
important in the coming months, as
countless seniors and others have
seen their retirement accounts and
home valuesfdecline as aresultofthis
economic crisis."
BAGHDAD
85,000 killed in
Iraq, report says
Iraq's government said at least
85,000 Iraqis were killed from 2004
to 2008, officially answering one of
the biggest questions of the conflict -
how many perished in the sectarian
violence that nearly led to a civil war.
What remains unanswered by the
government is how many died in the
2003 U.S. invasionand inthe months
of chaos that followed it.
A report by the Human Rights
Ministry said 85,694 people were
killed from the beginning of 2004
to Oct. 31, 2008 and 147,195 were
wounded. The figures included Iraqi
civilians, military and police but
did not cover U.S. military deaths,
insurgents, or foreigners, including
contractors. And it did not include
the first months of the war after the
2003 U.S.-led invasion.
The Associated Press reported
similar figures in April based on gov-
ernment statistics obtained by the
AP showing that the government
had recorded 87,215 Iraqi deaths
from 2005 to February 2009. The
toll included violence ranging from
catastrophic bombings to execution-
style slayings.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

NTSB report says pilot
caused 'U' plane crash

Two years later,
government report
says pilot's record
was "disturbing"
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
pilot of a 2007 medical flight that
crashed into Lake Michigan, kill-
ing all six aboard, mishandled an
unusual flight situation and was
unable to properly coordinate
with his first officer, the National
Transportation Safety Board said
yesterday.
Capt. Bill Serra was flying the
twin-engine Cessna from Milwau-
kee to Michigan. A four-member
medical crew affiliated with the
University of Michigan was on
board, as well as human organs for
transplant.
Besides faulting Serra and first
officer Dennis Hoyes at a hearing,
the NTSB said that a culture of lax
security by flight operator Marlin
Air contributed to the crash. The
board also cited the failure of the
Federal Aviation Administration
to detect and correct deficiencies

of the company.
On a cockpit voice recorder,
Serra can be heard soon after
take off struggling to control the
plane. The NTSB was unable to
determine what caused this, nar-
rowing it to two potential causes:
Hoyes inadvertently turning on
the plane's autopilot, or a problem
with the aircraft's trim control,
which helps maintain the air-
craft's position. A problem with
this control could have caused the
plane to turn sharply, leading to
the crash.
Under either scenario, NTSB
experts said, the crash likely could
have been avoided if the pilots had
maintained a reduced airspeed.
The safetyboard cited the check-
ered history of Serra, and faulted
Marlin Air for not being aware that
in two separate incidents, Serra's
pilot's license was temporarily
revoked. He had been convicted of
using a plane to smuggle drugs into
the United States.
NTSB experts also said their
investigation showed Serra had a
history of cavalier behavior and
rule bending.
Other pilots told NTSB inves-

tigators that Serra had instruct-
ed others to ignore treacherous
weather in some cases and had
once tried to fly even though a strut
had collapsed on his plane.
Reports from other pilots about
Serra "were disturbing," said Mal-
colm Brenner, human performance
group chairman for the NTSB. "At
(Serra's) initial safety meetings he
said something to the effect that
all of us have broken regulations at
some point."
Hoyes had logged many hours
in the air, but seemed inept and
unskilled as a pilot, experts said.
Hoyes made a series of routine
errors that distracted the pilot
and may have contributed to the
crash.
The NTSB also recommended
that Cessna make design modi-
fications to the aircraft involved
- the Citation II - including mov-
ing the location of the button that
switches the plane to autopilot.
The autopilot button and another
motion control button are located
near each other on the center con-
sole, and some aircraft makers
have redesigned consoles to avoid
confusion.

U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke with business and govern-
ment leaders during her visit to Russia this week.
Cinton: (Work us,,
with us, Rsi

U.S. urges Russian
officials to stop
"living in the past"
KAZAN, Russia (AP) - U.S.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton on Wednesday challenged
Russians to open up their politi-
cal system, embrace diversity and
scorn Cold War-era thinking.
In Moscow and Kazan, the capi-
tal of Russia's religiously and ethni-
cally diverse republic of Tatarstan,
Clinton underscored to audiences at
elite universities the Obama admin-
istration's desire to "reset" relations
with Russia.
"We have people in our govern-
ment and you have people in your
government who are still living in
the past," she told a crowd of about
2,000 students at Moscow State
University. "They do not believe
the United States and Russia can'
cooperate to this extent."
"They do not trust each other
and we have to prove them

wrong," she said.
Though she seemed to cast blame
equally, Clinton took particular
aim at Russian suspicions toward
improved ties and the influence of
U.S. policies and Western values.
"The more open that Russia can
become, the more Russia will con-
tribute," she said. "The more active
and dynamic the political system
you have, the more ... ideas will go
into the mix and out of it will come
even better answers to the problems
that we all face."
The comments came a day after
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov objected to the Obama
administration's strategy of publicly
threatening Iran with more sanc-
tions to get it to come clean about its
suspect nuclear program.
At a news conference with Clinton
on Tuesday, Lavrov said that while
more sanctions might eventually be
needed, talking about them or other
penalties now is "counterproduc-
tive." The U.S. believes Iran will
respond only if confronted by a uni-
fied position.

A505SF AMRA/AP
In this June 3, 2009 file photo, UN investigator Richard Goldstone visits the destroyed house where members sf the Samo-
ni family were killed in an artillery strike during Israel's offensive in January in Gaza City.
Palestinians urge Israeli
punishment over Gaza

University of Michigan's
Largest
Selection of REALTY
Units Availablelo, Immediate Occupancy
Off Camp US Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to 14 bedrooms
Housin file Church St. 17341 995-9200
Housing acelc
ww rchreatyco com
H,-,

Israel says U.N.
report is one-sided,
biased and wrong
UNITED NATIONS (AP) - The
Palestinians called yesterday for
global action to punish Israel for
alleged war crimes during its mili-
tary assault on Gaza last winter,
warning that the credibility of the
United Nations and international
human rights law was at stake.
The demand was based on the
findings of a commission headed by
former South African judge Richard
Goldstone that accused both Israeli
forces and Palestinian militants
of war crimes and possible crimes
against humanity during their Dec.
27-Jan.18 war.
Israel immediately rejected the
commission's report, calling it "one-
sided, biased and therefore wrong."
The report became the focus
of the Security Council's monthly
Mideast meeting yesterday after an
about-faceby the Palestinians.
Palestinian Foreign Minister
Riad Al-Malki and Israel's U.N.
Ambassador Gabriela Shalev
opened the council meeting yester-
day by trading accusations about
the Goldstone report. The session
ended yesterday evening after near-
ly50 speeches.
The U.N. Human Rights Council
commissioned the report and took
it up in early October, but Palestin-
ian diplomats agreed to delay con-
sideration until March under heavy
pressure from the United States.
The U.S. feared it would jeopar-
dize attempts to revive the Mideast
peace process.
The call for a delay sparked
scathing criticism of Palestinian
President Mahmoud Abbas and led
the Palestinians to reverse course,
first seeking an emergency Secu-
rity Councilmeetingand then seek-
ing to reopen the Human Rights
Council debate, which will happen
today.
The Goldstone report concluded
that Israel used disproportionate
force, deliberately targeted civil-
ians, used Palestinians as human
shields, and destroyed civilian
infrastructure during its incursion

into Gaza to root out Palestinian
rocket squads.
It accused Palestinian armed
groups of deliberately targeting
civilians and trying to spread terror
through its rocket attacks on south-
ern Israel. Hamas, the Palestinian
Authority's main rival, controls
Gaza and most armed groups in the
territory.
Al-Malki said "the savage Israeli
military aggression" exhibited "a
callous disregard for human life"
and deliberately destroyed thou-
sands of homes, schools, mosques
and industrial and agricultural
facilities.
He called the report "another
wake-up call to the internation-
al community that must not be
ignored," adding that "the credibil-
ity and foundations of international
human rights and humanitarian
law, as well as of the U.N. as awhole,
is at stake."
Israel's Shalev countered that
the report "favors and legitimizes
terrorism."
She insisted that "it denies Isra-
el's right to defend its citizens. ... It
permitsterrorists to victimize civil-
ians, target the innocent, and use as
human shields those it claims to
defend."
Shalev accused the world of
"doing nothing" about Hamas'
smuggling of Iranian arms into
Gaza, its launching of attacks from
schools, mosques and hospitals, or
its firing if 12,000 rockets against
innocent Israeli civilians.
And she accused Libya - the
only Arab member on the council
- of trying to "hijack" its agenda by
raising the Goldstone report, noting
that three weeks ago Libyan leader
Moammar Gadhafi called the Secu-
rity Council a "terror council."
The report recommended that
the Security Council require both
sides to carry out credible investi-
gations within three months into
alleged abuses during the conflict
- in which 13 Israelis and almost
1,400 Palestinians, including hun-
dreds of civilians, were killed - and
to follow that up with action in their
courts.
If either side refuses, the investi-
gators recommended that the Secu-
rity Council refer the evidence for

prosecution by the International
Criminal Court, the world's first
permanent war crimes tribunal,
within six months.
France's U.N. Ambassador
Gerard Araud called the allega-
tions in the report "grave indeed"
and urged both parties to conduct
independent investigations that
meet international standards. Brit-
ain's U.N. Ambassador John Sawers
expressed regret that Israel refused
to cooperate with the commission
and urged the Israeli government
"to carry out full, credible and
impartial investigations."
The draft resolution to be con-
sidered at this week's Human
Rights Council meeting in Geneva
would condemn Israel's failure to
cooperate with Goldstone's fact-
finding mission and endorse the
report's recommendations. The
draft calls on the U.N. and other
bodies to ensure implementation
of the recommendations, calls on
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
to submit a report to the council on
the status of implementation, and
asks the General Assembly to take
up the Goldstone report in the cur-
rent session.
The Human Rights Council is
expected to vote on the resolution
tomorrow, and approval will likely
return the issue to the Security
Council.
But council diplomats say there
is little chance that the Security
Council will take any action, pri-
marily because of objections by
the United States, Israel's closest
ally, which said the report should
be handled by the Human Rights
Council.
U.S. deputy ambassador Ale-
jandro Wolff reiterated yesterday
that the report and "the allegations
of human rights and humanitarian
law violations ... are not a matter for
Security Council action."
Healsocriticizedwhathetermed
"its unbalanced focus on Israel."
Wolff said Israel has the institu-
tions to seriously investigate the
allegations "and we encourage it to
do so." On the other hand, he added:
"Hamas is a terrorist organization
and has neither the ability nor the
willingness to examine its viola-
tions of human rights."

International
Career
Pathways
International Opportunities Fair
Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 2-6 pm, Michigan Union
Meet representatives of 55+ organizations to explore options for
internships, volunteering, teaching abroad & international careers
International Careers Speaker Series
careers & Internships in US. Government Foreign Affairs
Thursday October is, 6:00-7:30 PMWei, wlRi o F oonmB 1120 rd iii 1idg)
International Careers in climate Change
Wednesday October 21, 1:00-2:30 PM, Dana Bldg Room 1040
Careers in Globa Health
Wednesday October21, 5:00-6:30 PM, Michigan Union
Global Careers in Engineering & rechnology
Wednesday October 21, 6:00-8:00 PM, Chrysler Commons Lobby (N. Campus)
reaching & Vounteering Abroad
iednesday mcober 2n,7/0-:00 PM, Michigan Union
Peaceorps & YourInternational Career
Tiiursday Octoben, 70.0 OPC, Michigan Union
Need more information?
647-2299 . icoverseas@umich.edu . http://i ternationaicenter.umichedu/swt
Sponsored by.
The career Center The Center r for Global Heiith-MOihe Cent foroal and Intercultural Study
Coege of Engineering ~ Gera d 5. P Sciooi tPubiic Poliiy - Geaic Languages andL terature
The schooliotinformatione-The school of Natural Resources and tiheEnvironment
The School of Public Health ~ The School of Social Work


0

4A - Thursday, October 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

74C e IWC4loan wily

Shopping for sex toys

0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
bTtenure toubles
University must pursue open legal strategy in lawsuit
ne would expect a university that prides itself on its
accepting and friendly community would make it a pri-
ority to enforce its own non-discrimination policy. But
when a gay law professor filed suit against the University alleging
that he had been discriminated against, the University took the
position that it wasn't obligated to uphold its policy - a position
it only changed after an outcry from faculty. After more than five
years of the University's attempts to dismiss the lawsuit, a hearing
was finally conducted Friday. But regardless of how this case is
decided, the University must formulate its legal arguments more
sensitively - and more openly - in the future.

ast month, one of my sorority
sisters was getting married. For
the first time in my life, I was
stumped aboutwhat
to buy as a wed-
ding gift. I knew
my sister's sizes for
shoes and lingerie,
book preferences,
favorite foods and
biographic details
- the whole nine
yards. But now that ROSE
I wasn't just buying
for her, the whole AFRIYIE
twosome bit was-
throwing me for a
loop.
House appliances were overdone.
Money and gift cards weren't personal
enough. So, I did what any sorority girl
would do when faced with this situ-
ation: I headed to the nearest sex toy
store.
It's a beautiful thing to attend a
university where safe, affordable sex
toys are sold right off campus. One of
Ann Arbor's best-kept secrets is that
the Safe Sex Store (S3) on South Uni-
versity is a hub for sorority girls who
sometimes travel in pairs to buy their
big, little, dean, pledge, sands, soror
or sister tokens of affection to get her
vibe on. The thing is, I wasn't the run-
of-the mill customer. I had spent my
past summer doing evidence-based
research and one of thetopics I covered
was sex toys and lubricant.
Because of this research, I knew
that according to a 2009 study in the
Juurnal of Sexual Medicine, a majority
of women - 53 percent - had used a
vibrator. Additionally, I knew that men
were also getting in on it - 91 percent
of men and 81 percent of women who
used a vibrator used it with a part-
ner. And this couldn't help but bring a
smile to my face as I walked pastpenis-
shaped baking tins and breast-shaped
kegs. Accordingto the study, those who

used sex toys had higher rates of sexual
pleasure and better sexual health than
non-users.Womenwhousedtoysfound
it easier to naturally lubricate and men
had higher erectile functioning.
As I eyed the goods, I was immedi-
ately impressed: All toys were phtha-
late-free. While research on phthalates
is still ongoing, researchers have linked
these plastic-softening chemicals to
negative health outcomes. S3 offered
affordable silicone vibrators and dildos,
ranging in price from $20 to $140. The
deal with silicone, and glass for that
matter, is that it is one of the few toy
material types that can be thoroughly
cleaned. Other materials such as jelly
rubber, polyvinyl chlorides, elastomer
- and anything else that smells like a
shower curtain -is porous. Thismeans
itretainsbacteria, no matterhow much
antibacterial soap you use to clean it.
That's not to say all rubber toys should
be hurled to the nearest landfill. Itjust
means that porous toys should be used
with a condom to ensure one doesn't
get an infection.
The collection of male sex toys had
also grown since my last visit. From
disposable masturbator toys, male
masturbation sleeves and vibrating
cock rings priced $5 to $30, men have
some great options for self-love or a
pleasurable exchange.
But because I believe that sex is a
holistic act, I wasn'tjustgoingtofill my
shopping cart with a vibrator and cock
ring and call it a day. I was interested
in the adult sex education books. Itwas
nice to see books donning pictures of
African-American couples that taught
erotic massage and Kama Sutra posi-
tions that weren't just for contortion-
ists. I offered a silent prayer of thanks
for all the authors that dedicated gal-
lons of ink to how-to books for going
down on a woman.
After that, I was on my way to the
lube counter. Lube is a safe sex essen-
tial. Many will attestto the miraculous

powers of saliva, but it only lasts so
long. I scanned labels to secure some
glycerin and paraben free lube. While
studies are still inconclusive, parabens
have been linked to cancer. Glycerin, on
the other hand, creates an environment
in the vadge that is friendly to yeast
infections. I didn't want my friend to
have any unwanted guests during their
honeymoon period, so I was thrilled to
seelubethatmet all the healthrequire-
ments and still lefta film on my finger-
tips an hour later. With healthy lube,
toys for him and her and books galore,
my mission was accomplished.
A few weeks later, I went back to
thank the storeowner of S3, University
alum and educator Beth Karmeisool,
and to get some insights for this col-
umn. I asked her what toys students
come in for the most, and how one
knows when a toy is right.
Students have
good options for
pleasing partners.
"I sell a lot of Jack Rabbits and cock
rings, but it's not about what other
people buy," she said. "I keep products
that are fresh and hot based on design,
material and customer feedback. It's
all about meeting people at their com-
fort level."
I glanced around the room at my
peers. Sorority women held fetish fan-
tasy kits and condoms. Average Joes
clung to their lube proudly. Couples
searched through condoms branded
with the word "ecstasy." And I thought
to myself, this is what sexual literacy
looks like.
- Rose Afriyie can be reached
at sariyie@umich.edu.

Peter Hammer, who is now a law professor
at Wayne State University, sued the Univer-
sity after being denied tenure at the Univer-
sity's Law School in 2003. The University
review board initially approved Hammer's
tenure in a 4-1 vote. But the Law School
tenured faculty only voted 18-12 in favor of
approving tenure, two votes less than the
necessary two-thirds majority. Because of
that Hammer was denied tenure. He claims
he was the first male law school professor
to be denied tenure in more than 40 years
and that the decision was made that way
because he is gay. Hammer is now waiting
for the court to determine if this case will go
to trial.
The manner in which the University first
handled this issue was extremely troubling.
In 2006, the University argued for the case
to be thrown outonthe basis that the Univer-
sity has no legal responsibility to uphold the
non-discrimination policies outlined in its
employee handbook. The University's gen-
eral counsel specified that the non-discrim-
ination guidelines are only a "commitment,"
that don't necessarily have legal value.
The strategy, which was supposed to be
private, was obviously absurd. And faculty
and students called the University out for it.
As a result, the University switched its strat-
SEN
"Right to defend itself" is
too vague a claim for Israel

egy and instead argued that discrimination
didn't occur. Absorbing this criticism and
changing its strategy was the right move for
the University.
But students and faculty need some assur-
ance that other legal decisions being made
by the University are consistent with this
university's values. Such decisions should
not be kept private, and should never violate
the University's commitment to uphold a
policy of acceptance for all kinds of people.
After all, the University should feel morally
compelled to uphold its non-discrimination
policy regardless of whether it's legally
binding. Moving forward, the University
must rest its legal strategies on a sound com-
mitment to non-discrimination instead of
simply reverting to such a position to cover
its back. And if legal strategies were not for-
mulated behind closed doors, people would
be able to put more faith in the University's
position.
It's very unclear whether anti-gay preju-
dice played a role in Hammer's denial of
tenure. If it did, the University has a respon-
sibility to do something about it. But in either
case, the University's position should always
be open to the campus population and should
consistently support policies of non-discrim-
ination, whether the law says it has to or not.
ND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
United States using the justification of "fighting
terrorism" to condone the blatant disregard not
only for human rights but for the rights of U.S.
citizens that has become all too common since
the inception of our global war on terrorism.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Grow up, Democrats

TO THE DAILY: I would call on
Does Israel have a right to defend itself? right to self-defen
In their viewpoint, Danielle DePriest and what that actually
Naomi Scheinerman assert Israel's right to logue can progress
defend itself according to international law (The everyone can agree
blame game and Israel, 10/11/09). The mantra of defend itself," to m
self-defense is useful for Israel and the Zionist ing with which act
movement for two reasons: it is simple to state self-defense and wl
and hard to deny. Who in their right mind could
possibly say that Israel - or any other nation - Matthew Bussey
does not have the right to self-defense? Grad student
Israel's constant refrain of its "right to self-
defense" is analogous to our own nation's use Athletic De
of the phrase "global war on terror." Under
the guise of fighting against terrorism, the fillBiig Hou
Bush administration and the neo-conservative m d r o
movement led our country in the wrong direc-
tion. This phrase justified two major wars, TO THE DAILY:
illegal detentions, renditions of U.S. citizens, As a season fo
domestic spying programs, and the biggest years, it concerns1
power grab by the executive branch in our not be full this S
nation's history. student break. I've
Likewise, Israel has consistently used their and believe me, it i
right of self-defense to justify preemptive mili- In the old day:
tary incursions into Gaza, targeted assassina- would sell tickets
tions of Palestinian leaders, the building of a students to help fil
24-foot high concrete wall around the West short, but perhap
Bank, confiscation of Palestinian lands, the would allow Unive:
building of "Israeli only" roads that Palestin- tickets this week i
ians are forbidden to use, the establishment of the game. These do
over 600 checkpoints surrounding and within given to local midc
the West Bank, the uprooting of Palestin- on Saturday morni
ian olive groves, the use of white phosphorus Hopefully, the D
against civilian populations and the systematic letic Department t
dismantling of the Palestinian economy - not lead the way in get
to mention illegal detention and torture. ing Good luck andt
I would assert that using the justificatiun of
"self-defense" to justify this type of ppres- Michael Peikert
sin and apartheid is just as nunsensical as the Alum

those who defend Israel's
se to be more specific as to
means. In this way, the dia-
past blanket statements that
e on, like "Israel has a right to
ore pertinent questions deal-
ions by Israel are legitimate
hich are not.
partment should
se with kids
otball ticket holder for 41
me that the Big House may
aturday because of the fall
seen the Big House half full
s not a pretty sight.
s, the Athletic Department
for $1 or $2 to high school
ill up the Big House. Time is
s the Athletic Department
rsity students to turn in their
f they are not able to attend
onated tickets could then be
dle and high school students
ng.
aily can encourage the Ath-
o go along with the idea and
ting the ticket donation roll-
Go Blue.

Those who know me well under-
stand that I'm a pretty sensi-
tive guy. I tear up during sad
movies, and births
and weddings
invariably make
me a little verk-
lempt. When peo-
ple around me get
upset, I generally
become miserable
unless I succeed inx
raising their spir- MATTHEW
its. But even I, Mr. GREEN
Sensitivity, can see
that kindness and--- --
compassion have
certain limitations, particularly for
the nation's democratic leadership.
As a liberal who hoped things would
be different in Washington after
the last election, I'm outraged at the
Democrats' inability to enact any real
change whatsoever, despite control of
the executive branch and both houses
of Congress. I mean it with sincere
sensitivity when I say Democrats seri-
ously need to grow a pair.
In countless failed attempts at
bipartisanship, Democrats have
allowed themselves to be trampled by
Republicans. They prefer to fantasize
about everyone getting along, while
obstinate Republicans are only "in it
to win it." Part of the problem may be
that Democrats who fight like Repub-
licans don't get elected. When How-
ard Dean yeehawed during a 2004
presidential campaign speech, he
was mocked by established liberals as
radical and inflammatory. But when
Republican Congressman Joe Wil-
son of South Carolina screamed, "You
lie!" during one of President Barack
Obama's Congressional addresses,
$1.8 million in campaign contribu-
tions flowed his way the following
week.
Despite the fact that the democratic
congressional majority was voted into
power by constituents largely expect-

ing meaningful health care reform, system for universal health coverage.
the congressmen have since been Though a single-payer arrangement
unwilling - not unable - to make 'i th'lyislhpin of cohesive univershl
marked change. Ratherthan coming coverage, Obanaleft itbehind as soon
up with a feasible health care plan as the slightest opposition arose. Even
similar to those in most other wealthy, f hqvy slve ultimately had to give
nations, Democrats have pandered to it up, Obama should have realized
conservatives and private interests, that this was his greatest bargaining
muddying up real reform with stupid chip and held out longer. In his deal-
concessions to the health care indus- ings with Congress, Obama should
try. They've given up so quickly! channel President Lyndon Johnson 0
Without entirely viewing the leg- and understand that he can't satisfy
islative process as a zero-sum game, everyone. He has great ideas, but he
Democrats ought to start fighting a gets too hung up on getting everyone
little dirtier. Or for that matter, a little on board.
more like the Republicans. After all,
the GOP somehow managed to get us
into a needless war in Iraq with far
less power than the Democrats cur- Liberals need to 0
rently have. Why can't Democrats
accomplish what Americans actually start standing up
need and want?
Moreover, Democrats have aban- for them selves.
doned their principles for the sake
of "reaching consensus." Last win-
ter's stimulus package was gutted to
appease just two republican senators As a tried and true liberal, I'ntired
- Olympia Snowe and Susan Col- of always having to defend the Demo-
lins, both of Maine - at the expense crats when they have aren't willing
of creating real financial relief for to hold up their side of the bargain.
individual states. It's not politics, it's It's still obvious that in spite of their
pussyfooting. current ineffectiveness, the Demo-
And Obama is as guilty as Con- crats are the better of the two Ameri-
gress. As a nation, we're considerably can parties. Conservative leadership
worse off than where we were a year would be the worst choice for getting
ago. And while much of that change us out of a financial mess that con-
is beyond Obama's control, it can't be servative ideology helped create, and
ignored that the president has failed would probably just piss off the inter-
to accomplish the bulk of changes he national community.
needs to - even the ones he promised The Democrats' political philoso-
during last year's campaign. phy is just what this country needs,
For starters, the ambiguity of out- but their sensitive sidestepping is not.
lined proposals for withdrawal from Democrats need to accept that their
Iraq is unsatisfying. I understand actions will upset a lot of Americans,
the need to keep troops in Afghani- . and that that's okay. And once they do
stan, and even to take time in order so, ironically enough, I'm confident
to responsibly leave Iraq, but Obama that their constituents will respect
hasn't exactly taken the anti-war them infinitely more.
stance that his supporters expected.
Furthermore, he never should have - Matthew Green can be reached
dropped the idea of a single-payer at greenmat@umich.edu.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke,
Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

BE LLA SH A H

E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

aa

1

W.Ccts 'e ~o
CE cc~rd'
45 \~w~F~csscrl~ \~E

r e



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 15, 2009 - 5A

Fifth-year senior David Moosman has filled in at center for the last three games while regular starter David Molk rehabs a broken foot.

ZACHARY MEISNER/Daily

With Molk out, Moosman
adds own touch to center

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan Stadium field
turf poses a bit of a problem for
fifth-year senior David Moos-
man.
How does he remove the rub-
ber artificial pellets that get stuck
in his grizzly thick, strawberry
blond beard?
"My girlfriend's always pick-
ing it out," Moosman said with a
laugh. "She makes sure I know.
Good shower helps, too."
Considering Moosman's con-
tact on the offensive line, it's
inevitable the 6-foot-5, 293-pound
lineman would be very famiJiar
with the ground. After receiv-
ing his first varsity letter just last
year, Moosman has stepped into a
very versatile role for the Wolver-
ines this season.
In 2008, Moosman started all
12 games at right guard. As a sta-
ble force on an offensive line that
spent the better part of Michi-
gan's 3-9 season in flux, Moos-
man and his teammates tried to
adapt to Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez's system.
Within that system, a year
made a wealth of difference. The
offensive line, one of the Wolver-
ines' biggest liabilities last sea-

son, was supposed to be one of
their biggest strengths coming
into this year.
"It's actually a huge differ-
ence," center David Molk said
during fall camp. "We all know
each other, all know where each
other's feet are going to be. Pass
protection is a lot different, pass-
ing off, zone blocks, belly blocks
... it's completely different."
But halfway through the sea-
son, shuffling has replaced sta-
bility as the offensive line has
endured multiple injuries. And
Moosman has been at the fore-
front.
After starting at right guard in
.the Wolverines' rst two games,
Moosman injured his left shoul-
der against Notre Dame in Michi-
gan's come-from-behind win.
The next week, the line was
forced to respond against Eastern
Michigan withouthim. But things
would get even worse against the
Eagles, when Molk went down
with a broken foot. Because he
didn't know the extent of his
injury at the time, Molk stayed on
the field.
"It takes a different type of
person, and Molk is that type of
person," Moosman said. "You
need to not be able to think about
it, you just got to keep going and

not stop. And, he's that kind of
guy. He's a real tough kid, a real
tough guy. He just kind of puts it
out of his mind.
"It's a tough thing to put out of
your mind. You're kind of walk-
ing on it."
Molk's injury wasn't the best
news for a rehabbing Moosman.
Still nursing his battered left
shoulder, Moosman was tapped
to start at center in the Wolver-
ines' next game against Indiana.
Having played seven games at the
position earlier in his career and
taking reps during practice, the
move seemed logical.
But Moosman's first start as
center was more complicated.
Michigan endured six botched
snaps against Indiana, includ-
ing two that resulted in 20- and
22-yard losses.
With ice cushioning his still
ailing shoulder, Moosman didn't
shy away from his faults, saying
after the game, "Put the blame on
me."
Moosman said the biggest
challenge he has faced at center
is ability to snap the ball with one
hand. For the split second that he
snaps the ball with his right arm,
he has just his left arm available
to block. With his shoulder at less
than 100 percent, the process has

been trying.
"I was kind of hoping that Molk
would not get hurt, so I could get
another week of rehab in, but as
it was, I got in there," Moosman
said this week. "Like I said, you
don't want to think about it. Gut
through it. Played well, needed to
play better. Now it's fine."
With three games now at cen-
ter, Moosman is more acclimated
with the snaps and the mistakes
are less obvious.
Moosman said Monday that
he doesn't know where his natu-
ral position on the line is, and
he anticipates that when Molk
returns in a couple weeks, the
shift back to right guard may take
some time.
At center, Moosman has taken
up a leadership position on the
line, making calls, connecting
with the quarterback and com-
ing through with quality snaps.
Unlike Molk, who is very outgo-
ing, Moosman said his leadership
style could be described as more
laid-back.
"If you ask the other guys, I'm
sure they'll say mine's a little bit
less regimented," Moosman said.
"I feel like I'm a little bit more
relaxed than Molk sometimes. He
gets really fired up, and I'm more
of a calm guy."

Woolfolk will
start at corner .
this weekend
ByANDYREID Forcier was very limited in prac-
DailySportsEditor tice on Tuesday, the Wolverines'
only full-speed, full-pad practice
There may finally be some sta- of the week.
bility in the Michigan secondary. He "ran around a little bit, but
Since the Indiana game, the didn't do anything football-wise,"
much-maligned position group Rodriguez said.
has been plagued with too many But the coach was optimis-
unanswered questions, as Dono- tic when talking to media before
van Warren has been the only practice that Forcier would rejoin
consistently good player. But at his the team yesterday.
press conference yesterday, Mich- "Yeah, he should be practicing
igan coach Rich Rodriguez was today, unless something happened
sure about one thing. in the last two hours that I don't
Troy Woolfolk will play corner- know about," he said.
back again this week against Dela- Of course, Rodriguez wants
ware State. to be careful with Forcier as he
"Yes, I think he could go back recovers from the concussion he
to safety at any NOTEBOOK suffered in the fourth quarter of
time, but right Saturday's game at Iowa.
now we're solid "I think he's okay," Rodriguez
with him at corner," Rodriguez said. "I haven't seen him yet today.
said. I know he's been in the meetings,
Woolfolk, who switched from and talking to the trainers this
cornerback to safety at the begin- morning, he felt it was a lot better.
ning of the season, was settling We'll see how he does today.
into his role on the defense's deep- "Yesterday, he felt a lot better. I
est level before the coaches moved don't think there are many issues,
him back to corner for the Iowa or any issues, with his shoulder.
game. It's just, again, with those concus-
His switch came on the heels sions, no matter how severe it is,
of sophomore Boubacar Cissoko's you wancto be 100 percent sure it's
suspension for a "violation of team cleared up."
rules" and redshirt freshman J.T. RUNNING ROTATION: Rodri-
Floyd's mistake-prone perfor- guez said senior runningback Car-
mance at Michigan State. los Brown should be cleared to play
Woolfolk this weekend.
could remain at Brown suffered
corner indefi- a concussion last
nitely, since Cis- "He could go Tuesday after
soko's return taking a hard hit
will be based on b ackto safety at from a ineman
his response to in practice.
the suspension, any tinie, but ... The ques-
Rodriguez said . tion of whether
Monday. we re so dw tL Brwn or senior
"When (Cis- him atdCorner" Bradn Mnor
soko) comes back, . will get the start
it's really up to Saturday doesn't
him," Rodriguez seem to concern
said Monday. "He's got certain the coach.
things he's got to do, on and off the "t really will depend on what
field, academically and all that, play we want to run," Rodriguez
and if he does that, he'll be back said. "If Brandon is 100 percent or
sooner rather than later." close to that, he'll be the starter.
And Rodriguez stated that But either one, they play so much,
Woolfolk's move was a result of I consider them co-starters."
the Texas native's positives and Rodriguez was surprised to
not Floyd's negatives. find out that Minor had 22 car-
"It really was what we thought ries against the Hawkeyes, but he
Troy could bring at corner, and said he and Brown can handle that
not necessarily on the way teams many attempts.
were attacking us," Rodriguez Although he'd like to see Brown
said. "It makes him more com- and Minor get the ball 15-20 times
fortable, and for us to be able to a game, that may be too many car-
do more things defensively. Hav- ries to support the other things
ing him, more of a veteran pres- Rodriguez would like to do with
ence, with he and Donovan at the offense.
corner, I thought it was a pretty "That's a lot of runs, because
good move." you're going to have some quar-
With Woolfolk solidified at the terback runs and some other guys
position, the starting lineup in in there as well," he said. "Mike
the secondary should have Wool- Shaw and Vincent Smith, those
folk and Warren at cornerbacks, two in particular, we've got to get
former walk-on Jordan Kovacs more game action.
at strong safety and redshirt "I can't expect them to go out
sophomore Mike Williams at free there and not have mistakes if
safety. we don't play them more. We've
FORCIER UPDATE: Rodriguez got to play them more if we
said freshman quarterback Tate can."

Wolverines look to
Harris, Sims and others
for leadership in '09

@michdailysports
Seriously, we Tweet all
over the place.

Wright and Gibson
point to Lee and
Merritt as good
examples
By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
At Michigan Media Day on Tues-
day, most of the questions about the
basketball team's leadership per-
tained to junior Manny Harris and
senior Deshawn Sims, last year's
leading scorers.
What went largely unnoticed is
the fact that you don't need to score
a lot of points to be a team leader.
"Everybody who was here last
year needs to be more of a leader,"
redshirt junior Anthony Wright
said. "Just being able to tell the
younger players what to do because
they have respect for us. We've
been there, finally, and done that,
finally."
While having a team's leading
scorers step up is always a good
thing, last year's team proved that
formula isn't the only route to suc-
cess.
C.J. Lee, a walk-on point guard
who graduated last year, averaged
under three points per game but
was widely considered to be the
most vocal leader on the team.
"C.J. emerged as a starter and
was always great with team chem-
istry," coach John Beilein said.
Fellow point guard and graduate
David Merritt averaged under two
points per game but also brought

many valuable qualities off the
court.
Really, the only requirement for
last year's leaders was experience.
"One of the things I want to do,
being in my last year and being
a senior, is be more of a leader,"
fifth-year senior Zack Gibson said.
"Helping the freshmen get involved
and making sure they can help us."
While Beilein encourages every-
one to be a leader, he would clearly
welcome Sims and Harris filling
the leadership role while they fill
out the stat sheet.
"Both of them need to assume
ownership of the team," Beilein
said. "When you do that, that's usu-
ally a pretty major step. They need
to do that. But until they're cast
into that, like they are right now,
you don't know how they're going
to- respond."
Wright averaged just under three
points per game last year, Gibson
just under four. Wright said being
a leader is not just about what you
say, but about what you do.
"In practice, it's about doing
every drill thinking, 'This might
help us win a game down the
road,'" he said.
When asked if he felt any added
responsibility to be a leader this
year, Wright was adamant.
"Always," he said. "Getting up
for workouts, calling team meet-
ings, it's just the small things."
If Wright and Gibson can step
up in a leadership role this year and
take some of the pressure off Harris
and Sims, those small things could
prove to be game-changing.

-0'3.-


Michigan's Best costume shop


0

6A- Thursday, October 15, 2009
the mc ia al

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

00
RECORDS FOR SAL. 33 1/3, 7.
Si each. 8010-6335-2232.
* I
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
L ie far away? Park close! Many loa-
tions aailable. Call Varsity Manage-
stent (734 68-i1550 or
ssssevarsiy maagemeit.com
PARKING AVAIL, CENTRAL Cam-
pus ear iB Shoo and Law School
734222-90333. rsrw.jmsprop.om
PARKING AVAILABLE
66-882
PARKING ON CENTRALCamtps -
coered and uncred. Call
734-99-9200 for details.
1993 PONTIIAC (RAND ArmsS
Sporty. deperdale ride $1593
810i-229-75rsor.ctoas.etttt
1997 CHEVY CAVALER LS$ 4 door.
Grea rrs-ssrer, rnrs great $3795
80-229-9750i rsrroxcmas.orn
1997 I)ODGF INTREPID
Dependale Trnrsportatiorn $1493
810i-229-975surs .ctmas.otn
1997 MERCURY MOUNTAINEER
All aireel drie, Very cleat $3795
810i-22~i9-9750 ssrrr.crsas.cons
1999 FORDT AURIS Rns kreatl
Fliesxfel ergie, Sarp Looking $1995
801-229-97501i rss.ctttas.om
CARS, TRU(CKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100%r Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
4 ELEVEN L 01 1 is oo leasirg
fore 2010. Prisate etrorrms. even pri-
vt bah. Allnessfurnised 2
blocks Ifrmrr Cetra Cartpts. Reserve
now5, lock'iin grea rtes. ILittiter2119
space availabl --ak aourt speials.
734-98-400ii4eleerlo~s.cotn
HOUSE FOR FALL 2011. 1 block to
CCR. IFurnised, oe 7-8 persors.
F irepkace. 7 prkg spaces. tDslwslr/A/C.
4095. plus til. 734-996-8506.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BED1ROOM HOUSES
U pdaed. beurtifurly furnrised
Parking free larndry
1esing nwe for My 210
7341 972-7368
Hon athPrperties.cm
!! 4 1G. idrr. houuse. 5 person.
Mars C. at I M hdg. I dy., prkg. May-
Ma $y 2211. 84-399-9904.
7 BDRMI 1SFrorrKigsey ad Stae-
for 201111. Free parking. 2401 910226.

tli tthe
Aar'-
,Realty
Page
th Ann AboktOddinancedosnsrrtop
sutdent hornmrthinkineka hoursin eaniy,
sonhy should yonAdsestrse leases or
nn, My, and Fall nso! Reas oers40,00n
stdnts and othrer Univrsitypmeeros.
Psenorted bp ThMchgarDaschssifids
Deadline c. 22
Published Oct. 2
dalycasified~gmaiicom
(74) 764-055/
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6ard 7 bedrtoms Near Camps, 0 mo
lease. APPL Y NOW for AugSep
2010. Central Air, Free L andry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancyl at iu rricl.edrr.
www.nancsiakcrrin
NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
wrsss carsonpropeties.ore
734-33260111.
1 & 2 Bdrm. funs. pts. 402 11ill St. &
1313 S. State. Asail os. Lry.. AC,
sa, free prkg. Call 734-904-673.
2 BD)RM APARTMENT asailahle in
the shadosw of U of M hospital on
Fnller.t-Frnised, heat, water n- park-
ing inluded. Move is tduay. Call Cam-
pus Managenent 734-663-4101.
Management
62501hurch St.
Now taking reservations
for fal 2010!
rudise 1,2304,&Ssbrwrs&toues
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadim
Three edroomt hose, true car garage.
sasroom, format dining rotm, dis-
washer, hardwood foorig. ceramic
ath, fol asesntts/ laudry and attic
storage. Great for UMfootal fans
an/or CMhl cmmursters. kCal Pat 663-
4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $79 ad up,
Available for Ismmediae (Occpacy on
Central Campus I eat, Water, and Park-
ing Itrcluded. Call 734-99-9200 or
stop into5 616 Curch Street for sore is-
formation,. wwsvarclreatyco.cosn
20 PERSON HIOUSE available fal
2110. Located Near Oaklatd and ]-ill.
Call 734-99-9200 for details.

Th A ChAie ie ous
*Fitness Center
" Covreredt Parking
" Fexile LeaseIerms
*Apartments &Ibwnu somes
" Pol & Sauna
P es Wecssme
"t41li. Emergency Maintenane
" Beautifid Groustl
*Business Center
" Shuttle Van tsr Doswnsown AA
" WiP5Fi IReady
RetrciosApply
Woodbury Gardens
Indlustrial & Stadium Dr.
734-663-7633
wur. wordbu ryarderr.enm
- Amentiert/7ay
b, y Propery
3 AND 4 BR Gits. Central Camspus
and Kerry Twn. immrediae Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Bet Landlord. Call 734-99-9200 or
visit ssww.arcreatyco.om
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
rostr at $649. 2 edroom at $714. Call
Ness! 734-663-0463.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Yur atentiun please!
Camapus Managemtenkt. nc. invites your
to visit uww.CaepusMgecm, the best
local wesite for te best selection of
apartmsens and hoses. We specialize
irs houses and apartments very close to
central camsps. tots of 2 edroomt
apts. and smsaler availahle toot All are
attractisely priced, most include park-
ing, sarny are furnised ad some it-
clude utiliies. Contact us y pone to
schedule a personal sowig with our
rental agert. Ask for Pat. 663-41.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rmss. List ad
Browse FRE1EL All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http:sww.snlet.corss
AVAIL 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. l, I bdrm., and 2 bdrn. apt. w/
security buzzer. Landry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Reaty
Co. 734-36-0236.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+- dnnr. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-36-0256.
5 6BERMHOUSES
MAY 2010
COIPROPERTIES
7-63-5609
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrs 2 ath. Wash-
erdryer. Parkisg. $2120/mo + t.
1037 Packard. 734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE ALL 2010
1223 White-h drm.
341 . efferson-8 drm.
o rw.keystanagerent.net
AVAILABLE MAY- 6 Bdrm hose, 2
bdrmealt. on centraul camtps. Avail.
now 5 bdrmrsApr.eCalt 734-66-2723.
isit awvw.shaiprperties.com
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrrm apt. in prime location, priate a-
consy, eat/water icl., fuy furnished.
free parkirng, $999 se. 734-66-882.

W WW.800FU LLER.COM
(734) 769-7320
1 & 2 bdrin., modlern, clears, quiet
35rein, walk. Nu Sept. rent.
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATI ON
TOUR TODAY!
$150tigft car6an
FREEstlUie NH
sl uiis Incuees
w$150hgftardandt~o

7 Un iv rsity
Plan Ahead!
Reserve your housing with
University Towers!
Rsng uboe U-M tCentrl Campus,
Unirsip Twers offers fulp
fumnished rooms, studis,
1, 2 & 3 bdrom units.
Inluded in thu rnt is hut, wtr &
amazing highrisu stpe amnitis.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedruom, fully urs, large kitchens,
fol sire asher & dryer, os site
parkinsg. For sore informsation call
Iara at Church Street Apatmets,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 dr. 2 haul.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadiusm. 248-318-979
D)ELUXE 2 BDRM2 story n ILong-
shore Dc Haf a mie to UM Med.
School and Hospita. Oesale to north
campus. Car pomtW0 in uni,
$930/ra., alt appiances, nwater in-
cinded. Call 734-39-288.
Pltianius grai.core
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apar-
reerts err Central and North Campus,
wws.tticleotrealty.cosn or
734-662-3300 tr appoitent.
ahie Michigan Dailyj
Online Classifed
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Vsit michigandaily.com/
classifieds o see al of tho
groat houses ond aprrents
Ann Arbor has to offer, al on
a convoniernt moo:
Aso be sure to check-.ourt
tho Classified Pages for other
groat propertes.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bd.
ap. anItI S. State, Near U-M us
stop Avail. Now, May, Fall 10, tfeat
& water istel. Bae., A/C, prkg.. dry.,
$11t00-1650, No smskgno pets.
734-996-3339 or 734-678-720.
eltseag us cornaskset
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 hlocks east of
tte business school. IHeat, water and
parking icuded. Call Camrpus Mar-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL
ABLE Near U of M Horspita. C-
resey spacios 3B1R21A apartment
available for immediate occpancy
across the street from kU of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beati-
frI Hard Wood Flors Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laondry. Carport Prkig
Auaiable. Call 734-99-9200 for ass ap-
pointmeat, pictures available at

www.archrealsyco.cosn
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Lauuy 3, 4, 5
hdrm. apts. avail, at the corner of Hilt
& S. Forest. Call fosr details: 734-665-
8823. http://www.camusrealty.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Chuarchs
Street, for snore details call 734-995-
9201) or see oww.areisrealtyco.eore
A
REALTY
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immeldiate Ocupdncy Avdilable
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
,rxn se a e_
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
wwwarchrealtycocom

STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walkiag distane of centrol cumpus,
parking inclurded. Asailable immedi-
ately. Call Camrpurs Mantagement 734-
663-410.

NOW IS THE te to reserve yonr
Apartmenst for 2010/2011. Stop by U ni-
versity tussvers to secure yourr apart-
scent'FODAV! 734-761-2680.
IForest Edge Apartments1
1315 Hill St.I

Now Leasing tor
May 2010!!i
3 and 4 bedrooms available!
ON ARBORETUM NEAR msidtowns.
Htistoric Frantk Lloyd Wrighst-type, Itse:
4 bdrmus, 2.3 bathss, 734-662-7924.
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BRt
Near IM HBuildintg- Available for inutne-
diate Occapancy, just 5 minutes wnalk
us thre LUnions. Heat, Wrater, Furmisims.
andr Pnarking Inclunded. 1'rices starting as
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
i N o w Le~r a s ep ing~ o
day rgtUerst es 2 Bed-s
roos onatngat PustRaty fo3.11 rdI
7erssssa 333,61. -78 -20or
RRM FORPRENT 9 t
htouse near U of M Norths Caampus.
$330/mauonth. A/C, wshsr/dryer, dwushr,
garage prkg, basesaent storage. dosgs
and eats welcomse. 734-668-61532.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL,
Campuus/Kerrytoswn $395-5501;1Heat,
Water, & IElectric Incluaded. Parkintg
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
in5o 616 Chrurch Street. More laft at
www.arctreatyco.csr
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Imnmsediate mouve-ins.$450-500. Two
luocations tear camepus. 734-996-1991
AVAILABLE NOW 1 or 2 bdrm. on
S. IForest near SonthtU. 734-996-2036.
Done the1
Sudoku yet?1

I T I
WE WANT YOUR OUSE FOE
TOP WEEKEND! Get paid big uks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Lre 800-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your hose. Our in-
sured service rents out hoses and
apartments to alnumni for footbl/as-
ketbal weekends and pts money in
your pocket instantly. Ceaning service
aad propery insuane included. Foe
score information email
rentme a),gobtnetouses.cor. Tking
orders now for Penn State weekend
"THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organizationt, formtat. 23 yrs. U-M cp.
996-0366 05 wrteon rlsenet
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /dy poten-
tial. No exp. nie., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-620 x 12.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.23 base-app, customer sales/ser
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, wilt
trait. 734-677-2477.
bnrtp://wssw. worhforsturdents.core
BRAINFUSECOM SEEKS tutors:
Cl, Puhy, cieo, Trig, Chem and Bi.
$t0-h14/itr. Send CV and Transript to
bsclinro us brainfuse.eore
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASnAP aretup to $150/day be-
ing a mysery sopper No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUND)RAISE FOR THE Ut $9.2-
+/Fr. at Michigast eefnd. On cam
pus, flexible hrs. Students apply @
www.teiefund.ussich.edu or 763.440.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRtLL & Pab now hiring talented,
htardworking individuals for oust wait
anud kitcens staff, and floonan. No
exp. necessary. Apply in persen at 310
Maynard, Arm Arbor 734-99-010.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
"Paid "survey takers needed irs A2.
100%a FREE. to join. Click on Surey.
SU RVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$-823 per survey.
sswGePad ol bnk cow
SPRING BREAK 20t0. Sell Trips.
Lartn Casts and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jaaica, Cancun,
Acarpulico, Bahamas, S. Padre. Florida,
hifs'oraiuss/Reservations
I-800-6s48-48493 or www.sstrae.com

0
0

2.
3
2(
3,

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis.
ACROSS 3 Little barn tliters 38 Traveling 48 Snoopy's fling
1 Premium wovie 4 Cease-fire show personna, e.g.
statiun 5 Leggs prodact 02 Toronto's 50 Baseball's
4 Hawmer-wiedding 6 Goad thing In inclades the CN Jaekson, aka
Norse goud keep when Tower "Mr. Octoee'
8 Fist vaice ut hearing oppasing 43 Quotas 53 It's a gnoddthig
Mckey Mouase niews 44 Leopoldse 55 Ex-senator Teens
4 'Thissinstantt" 7 Bureaucratic cn-defendant 56 Genesis
5Will Rogers prop mante 4 o o odr gado
6Rulling ury 8 'Take cure nf if'4o" n oie rntn
ISP with curns "Bant. net , 48 A tppe oftonee 67 Prear clametish
ronms 10 Patted up, us a heginn the 58 Sch. near
8 Toukavantagte sprain anserstoI Harvard
at 1t Make quasp starred clues 58 Enzytme suffin
9 Scrubs, as puts 12 Thrnw wide of ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
1 Bakerytfare the mark, sap
namedtfor their 13 NFLgains T SK E D J EST S COAT
shupe 21tRestsne'stfeet A PL EA A L OE P OL K
13 Acress Holmes 22 Ham holder SHAKY SANE UNDO
O Mothers' muonth 26 Detroit-hased TEXASI
5 Kids xbutlding financial erg.
block 27lCapitulinnatfjord E R O IND0 E N T I T Y
18Parto CBS: 29 Varinuslypcolored S E N 0 R A E E E V E E
Abhr. lowerCGA R S ON A L E RT
09 'Quixotic reueries 30 Small weight P 0 L I S H E D B R A S
2 1052 Wcstern units
heru tu whom 31 One may In inwerWOVEN ERSATZ
Joey cred an APR P RE HOQS R H YT HM
"Cotmeback!" 332Detest M OR E A U A W E I 1
1Vacatonrhume, 35 Funnp omhetk S U S T A I N E D W I N D S
mayhe 36 Minnesota's state F I S T R OT E A S I D0
6 htately tree birdL
t~stthres 7flniinnkn A TE E T T 0 PFFL E E R
moe ..." tanguage of N YSE Z A NY TE RN S
O Halt- caone China uxwordeditor@aol.com 1t014109

1IZEDZ6
4 7LIZ

LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS no
help save and protect history and open
spaces on Mackinac Island. Needed
also active invelvement of professors
atnd departmeats, to hselp so save areas
ott the state park island, which has a
uniqure history ansd importance, nation-
ally, bat especially, because ir is owned
*by urs, to Michsigan. 1-866-MAC-ISLE

0
0

40 Prefxth t ienaby
45 Sandaypdtnners
43 Certain Sr
Lankar
45 Tlaygrounad
trotturn
47 Immuntal
runeharse
Mun
01 Oprex dud
02 Coftee dispenser
53 Eugle's nest
54 *Beat puet whu
wroteu"ol"
58 Ohiou city nothuo
Columbhus
110 Pre-o luday isrtten
61 Pester
62 Bealygdits
63Domstcated
64 MMX : X
es Basic dnctrines
he One-armed
bandit
67 " Hum'
DOWN
1Chips ord nuts
2 "Way to gt"

8 905 nsuuu10 1unss 1.1 /1 /1

Deauire)for ie asisl1: 30orruneeL
Rates: $4.30tper ine or he'irs is'e.
edditoral0co-sot utovs'issuo
" Frequericyasid Bu/lk contas are avails
" tuenu'r oay ruu'ivesa250% iscount
vali stuenit I I rj'ss ue 4 4 el non
" Al od utbpeador ifouro1 21 prirbit
" Weuacc'pt VisMasteu r rmria
" Frr Ca'ised Displa aver'i36ng,3plas

busones day prior to publication
an 2.11 e iefrec
Jlabu siontact ursolefIfor details
w1ie ads are puscesOinperson withs S
L- u sssny)
ip rpIsvdlegrises' bons'tabished
LisxpressListcsvercoss or check
us cll ne1f:or Acc~ount Executives





t'

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Donald Tong, the Hong Kong Commissioner for Economic and Trade Affairs in the United States, spoke at the Ross School of
Business yesterday about the opportunities for investment.
Hong Kong off l talks
in

Tong says economic
freedom of Hong
Kong makes it an
investor's paradise
By ALEX KIRSHENBAUM
For the Daily
With its low tax rates and eco-
nomic freedom, Hong Kong is an
idealdestination forinvestment, an
official from the budding city said
in an address on campus yesterday.
Donald Tong, the Hong Kong
Commissioner for Economic and
Trade Affairs in the United States,
spoke before about 70 people at the
Ross School of Business yesterday
afternoon.
In his presentation, Tong dis-
cussed Hong Kong's present eco-
nomic state, as well as the city's
future prospects and its potential
relationship with Michigan and
the United States.
HongKongstands out as aglobal
city largely because of how inviting
the economy is, ranked the freest
in the world, Tong said.
"You should keep most of what
you earn," Tong said.
"Trade is our bread and butter,"
he said. "We pay no taxes to foreign
authorities. Our tax rate is simple
and low."

Tong said Hong Kong's warmth
to foreign investors, embraced by
the United States as a whole, has
historically notextended as fully to
Michigan. He said he believes that
this is changing, though.
"If you look at the trade volume,
it's not on the very high side," he
said. "Butthemore importantthing
is that you look at the growth."
Over the past few years, trade
between Michigan and Hong
Kong has been steadily increas-
ing, according to Tong. This figure
should increase even more in the
near future, Tong said, especially
with the American auto industry's
new focus ongoinggreen.
"Hong Kong and China, and
indeed most of the global players,
have attached great importance to
reduction of greenhouse gasses,"
Tong said. "Electric vehicles would
be one way to shift that."
Tong pointed out, however,
that Hong Kong's hilly geography
makes current electric car models
difficult to sell there.
Though electric cars with
roughly a 100-kilometer range are
useful for travel within a most cit-
ies, Tong said that with the heavy
automobile traffic between Hong
Kong and mainland China, cars
with longer battery ranges are
needed.
"Hopefully, somewhere down
the road, there will be further

innovation in terms of technology,"
Tong said. "Then we would be able
to look at the same issue again."
When asked why he chose the
University of Michigan as his
forum to speak, Tong said it was
because the University is a good
school.
"It has a very good reputation,
especially the Ross School of Busi-
ness," Tongsaid. "It's agood oppor-
tunity to reach out to graduates
and undergraduates while they're
still in college.
Tong expressed his desire to
attract students to Hong Kong,
hoping that by coming to the Uni-
versity, he would help "put Hong
Kong on (students') radar screens."
Some members of the audience,
most of whom were graduate stu-
dents from the Ross School of Busi-
ness or the Ford School of Public
Policy, thought Tong had good
things to say.
MBA student Ramana Atluri
said he thought the presentation
was fantastic.
"It was a wonderful window
into Hong Kong's economy," Atluri
said.
Public Policy graduate student
Simon Tam agreed.
"I'm originally from Hong
Kong," Tam said. "Being there
you're sort of desensitized with the
competitive advantage Hong Kong
has."

WASSERSTEIN
From Page lA
careful reporter with an eye for
personal details and was, I think,
very good at strategizing, scoping
things out, and again, of course
that's where he made his living,"
Killingsworth said in a phone con-
versation yesterday evening.
Many on campus were angry
after the University turned over a
list of names to Congress, accord-
ing to Killingsworth, who is now a
professor of economics at Rutgers
University.
Wasserstein responded to the
University's decision by extensively
interviewing members of the Uni-
versity's Law School community to
find out where University officials
stood on the event and whether
they had tried to prevent it, Killing-
sworth said.
"It's eerie reading (Wasserstein's
article) and then knowing he went
on to become, first of all, a great
lawyer and secondly, a great deal-
maker," Killingsworth said. "All
of the themes of that, I think, are
clearly visible in what he did."
Though Wasserstein was recog-
nized by all who knew him for his
remarkable smarts, he was also
keenly identified by his Daily co-
workers by his disheveled appear-
ance, according to Daniel Okrent,
another Daily alumnus who now
writes for Time Magazine as well
as other publications.
"The key things about Bruce was
he was incredibly smart (and) he
was a total slob in college," Okrent
said. "He meant to tuck in his shirt
but he never managed to really pull
it off. He was pudgy, he was amus-
ing and he always seemed to be
thinking a few steps ahead of the
rest of us."
Those messy tendencies proved
to be more endearing than detri-
mental.
Wasserstein graduated from the
University in 1967 at the age of 19
with an Honors degree in political
science. He later went on to gradu-
ate from both Harvard Law School
and Harvard Business School, and
later studied at Cambridge Univer-
sity as a Knox Traveling Fellow.
"I guess (his appearance) didn't
do that much against him," said
Andy Sacks, who was a Daily Photo
Editor. "You and me were prob-
ably taught that we had to tuck our
RODRIGUEZ
From Page 1A
Success Program were polled to
get an idea of what the cumula-
tive grade point average for the
football team would be, on aver-
age.
"He was given an estimate," she
said. She added that a number of
players had lately achieved their
"personal best" academically.
According to the Free Press
report, Rodriguez also made a
similar statement before a group
of University alumni in Washing-
ton, D.C. in May.
"We have a couple, two or three
of our student-athletes, who have
not gotten their grades back. I
think the professors maybe left
early, but when we get those back,
VENTURE
From Page A

is to increase the average number
of startups in the next five years
from nine to 12 a year.
"The first step is to create the
thought that this mightbe a startup
as opposed to just another technol-
ogy, and I guess hopefully get them
excited about the opportunity,"
O'Connell said. "It's not like we
have a new set of offices or a new
building, it's just a way of focusing
and gatheringtogether the resourc-
es that were there already."
Ken Nisbet, executive director
of the Office of Technology Trans-
fer, said though the University has
been relatively successful at turn-
ing inventions into startups, the
goal of the center is to increase
the "quality and quantity" of those
startups.
"We've averaged about nine
startups a year which is actually
equivalent to a school like Stan-
ford," he said. "We've done well,
but we knew given the economy,
knowing the opportunities that
exist within the University we
wanted to improve."
While other colleges like the
University of Minnesota already
ADVOCACY
From Page 1A
onstration projects that will
research what actions by the
child's advocate contribute to
desired outcomes," Duquette
said. "This has never been done
before and empirical research on
the effectiveness of legal repre-
sentation is very rare."

shirts in to get ahead in the world.
Bruce got ahead without paying
much attention to that detail."
Killingsworth said Wasserstein
- a born deal-maker - was also
instrumental in handling a situa-
tion during the winter of 1967 in
which the Board in Control of Stu-
dent Publications rejected Roger
Rapoport, the editorial staff's nom-
inee for editor in chief. At the time,
top editors needed the approval of
the Board - a process that is no lon-
ger in place.
The paper's top editors decided
that despite their ongoing efforts to
resolve the confrontation with the
Board, they had a responsibility to
report on the proceedings.
"Bruce's attitude about the
whole thing was that we were first
and foremost reporting this," Kill-
ingsworth said. "And sure we had
to make decisions about how we
were going to wage war against the
Board. Bruce was, I'd say, one of
the key strategizers in figuring out
what to do and sticking to it."
Killingsworth said it was during
this time that Wasserstein's com-
mitment to journalistic integrity
was truly proven.
"The remarkable thing about it,
I think, was he never, ever, even
for a moment, suspected or consid-
ered the possibilities that we might
somehow withhold something that
we knew for fear that it would clear
a deal with the Board," Killings-
worth said. "His attitude was,'We'll
press ahead with what we want,hbut
in the meantime we've got to report
the news."'
"I have an enormous amount
of respect for what he did at the
Daily," Killingsworth added.
Respect for Wasserstein carried
on long after his time at the Uni-
versity ended - especially because
of Wasserstein's attachment to his
college workplace.
For example, one day during the
summer of 1984, Wasserstein came
back to Ann Arbor and stopped
off at 420 Maynard St. to visit the
Daily's summer staff, according to
Neil Chase, who was working as
the Daily's summer editor-in-chief
at the time.
Wasserstein treated the Daily
staffers to lunch at Cottage inn
on East Liberty Street, inquired
about their doings at the Daily and
spoke of his time there. Meanwhile,
because of Wasserstein's humble
nature, they had no idea they were
we think we'll break the record
- 25-year record - for overall
football team GPA this semester,"
Rodriguez is quoted as saying in
the Free Press story.
In Rodriguez's statement yes-
terday, he said the Academic Suc-
cess Program officials "did not
make it clear that the number was
just an estimate and not an exact
calculation."
"We apologize ifthis has caused
any confusion," he added.
In the interview, Michels
admitted that there never were
and still aren't any real numbers
to support the claim.
"It was not based on any spe-
cific data," she said.
Atthetime,Rodriguez "thought
it was an actual number," accord-
ing to University spokeswoman
Kelly Cunningham.
have venture centers, Nisbet said
the University of Michigan hopes
to bring the concept to a new level.

"Several universities have-
dedicated units that work on new
startups," he said. "The venture
center concept of an integrated set
of resources is not totally unique.
We're not unique in what we're
doing, but we're going to be world-
class in how we execute the con-
cept."
Nisbet said there are currently
about 60 or 70 inventions in the
pipeline that could be eligible to be
licensed to companies.
"Most of our new discoveries
would end up being licensed to an
existing company," he said. "Some
of these ideas could form a basis of
a company. In the end we analyze it
to ensure that the idea makes sense
for a new business startup."
O'Connell said if the project has
"enough legs" to become a startup,
they will put it on a path toward
becoming its own business, instead
of being licensed to another com-
pany.
Thewhole process - from inven-
tion to startup - usually takes
about one and a half to two years.
The center will provide inven-
tors with resources throughout
the process, like access to venture

Thursday, October 15, 2009 - 7A
hanging out with one of the most
prominent names on Wall Street,
Chase said.
"It wasn't until after he left, we
did a little research on our own and
figured out what a powerful guy in
the investment business he was,"
Chase said. "He was already really
successful by then."
Though primarily a finance
guru, Wasserstein did contribute
substantially to the world of jour-
nalism, Chase said.
Wasserstein went on to found
The Deal, a financial newsweek-
ly, and also bought and reshaped
other publications like American
Lawyer and New York magazine.
Before his death, Wasserstein
was also rumored to be among
the potential bidders to purchase
BusinessWeek.
He also co-founded Wasserstein
Perella, an investment banking
firm where he served as CEO from
1988 to 2001. Following his success
there, Lazard hired Wasserstein in
2002. In his first year on the job,
Wasserstein boldly took the com-
pany public after more than a cen-
tury of private ownership.
Besides his undeniable mark on
the investment banking, Wasser-
stein left a definite mark on Univer-
sity of Michigan students' lives. He
established the Morris Wasserstein
Award through the LSA Honors
Program, in honor of his father,
which provides honors students
on the Daily's writing and editorial
staffs with scholarship money that
"can exceed $1000/term for one or
two terms," according to the Uni-
versity of Michigan Honors Pro-
gram website.
Though Okrent claims Wasser-
stein was "smarter than the rest of
us combined," he never could have
guessed he would become such
an immense leader in the finance
world.
"When he went off to get his
juris law degree at Harvard, you
knew that if Bruce ever got his act
together, which he did, he would
be very successful, but there was
no clue he would pursue a career in
high finance," he said.
Killingsworth, too, said he didn't
foresee Wasserstein's trancedence
from Daily editor to Wall Street
power broker, but he did know
Wasserstein had the skills to be
very successful.
"He was a phenomenon," Killing-
sworth said. "He was amazing."
Michels said that the cumula-
tive GPA for the team is neither
compiled for University purposes
nor for NCAA eligibility purpos-
es.
"Nobody uses that informa-
tion," she said.
Michels said, "there's just no
good academic reason" to compile
the information.
She said that in the past Uni-
versity officials have compiled
the team's cumulative grade point
average in rare instances.
In the fall of 2008, Rodriguez
asked for a cumulative GPA for
the team. That information was
compiled, Michels said. But the
information was later destroyed
and not retained.
"The Academic Success Pro-
gram doesn't use that for any-
thing," Michels said.

capitalists - the center has about
200 in its "Rolodex," according
to O'Connell - and mentors in
residence, who are local business
owners and entrepreneurs with
experience with startups.
David Hartmann, who has start-
ed three companies of his own, is
a mentor in residence. He said his
role is to aid faculty inventors by
tracking down interested alumni,
helping them in the grant-writing
process and providing them with
other resources that will help them
start their companies get off the
ground.
Hartmann said he decided to
become a mentor in residence
because he wanted to find a way
to "give back to the community"
after he gothis third startup off the
ground.
"I think the Michigan economy
really needs a transformation," he
said. "It's going though a very dif-
ficult time and certainly with the
one billion (dollars) inresearchthat
we've earned and spent last year
with the University, there's got to
be more commercial possibilities
coming out of that."
"For me," he added, "it's about
finding the next bright idea that
can replace the Pfizers of the com-
munity."

Gunmen attack three law
enforcement facilities in
eastern Pakistan city,

Federal Investigation
Agency says
attacks will be
closely examined
LAHORE, Pakistan (AP) -
Teams of gunmen attacked three
law enforcement facilities in Pak-
istan's eastern city of Lahore on
Thursday, a major escalation in an
audacious wave of terror strikes
as this U.S.-allied, nuclear-armed
country prepares for an offensive
in a Taliban and al-Qaida strong-
hold.
At least seven people died in a
gunfight with police at one site,
police said as the city plunged
into chaos.
In the Taliban-riddled north-
west, meanwhile, a suicide car
bomber detonated his vehicle
next to a police station, killing
at least eight people, while a sus-
pected U.S. missile strike killed
four alleged militants, officials
said.
"The enemy has started a guer-
rilla war," Pakistan's Interior
Minister Rehman Malik told a
local television station.
One attack in Lahore occurred
at a building housing the Fed-
eral Investigation Agency, a law
enforcement organization that
deals with matters ranging from
immigration to terrorism. Local
media channels reported that
hostages were being held.
"We are under attack," said
Mohammad Riaz, an FIA employ-
ee reached inside the building via
phone by The Associated Press
during the assault. "I can see two
people hit, but I do not know who
they are."
Senior government official Saj-
jad Bhutta said the attack lasted
about 11/2 hours and was over by

11 a.m. He said the dead included
two attackers, four government
employees and a bystander. Senior
police official Chaudhry Shafiq
said one of the dead wore a jacket
bearing explosives.
Two other groups of attackers
struck police facilities in the area
Lahore's outskirts in violence that
was continuing, Shafiq said.
One occurred at the Manawan
police training school - the sec-
ond time attackers have struck
there this year. The earlier attack
led to an eight-hour standoff with
the army that left 12 people dead.
No casualty figures were immedi-
ately available for the Thursday
strike.
Another was at anelite police
commando training center not far
from the airport. Senior police
official Malik Iqbal said at least
one police constable was killed
there.
Television footage showed
helicopters in the air over one of
the police facilities and paramili-
tary forces with rifles and bullet-
proof vests taking cover behind
trees outside a wall surrounding
the compound.
The militants have claimed
credit for a series of attacks in
recent days, including a siege of
the army's headquarters in the
garrison city of Rawalpindi that
left 23 people dead.
The Taliban have warned Paki-
stan to stop pursuing them in mil-
itary operations.
The Pakistani army has given
no time frame for the expected
offensive in South Waziristan
tribal region, but has reportedly
already sent two divisions total-
ing 28,000 men and blockaded
the area.
Fearing the looming offensive,
about 200,000 people have fled
South Waziristan since August,
moving in with relatives or rent-

ing homes in the Tank and Dera
Ismail Khan areas, a local gov-
ernment official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because
he was not authorized to talk to
the media.
The Thursday morning suicide
attack occurred in the Saddar
area of Kohat, a district near the
tribal areas.
Police official Afzal Khan said
at least 20 people were wounded,
and that both police and civilians
were among the eight killed. Half
the police building was brought
down.
"We fear that some policemen
are trapped under the rubble," he
said.
The U.S. has encouraged Paki-
stan to take strong action against
insurgents who are using its soil
as a base for attacks in Afghani-
stan, where U.S. troops are
bogged down in an increasingly
difficult war.
The Americans have carried
out a slew of their own own mis-
sile strikes in South and North
Waziristan over the past year,
killing several top militants
including Pakistani Taliban chief
Baitullah Mehsud.
The early Thursday missile
strike hit a compound in Dande
Derpa Khel, an area in North
Waziristan where members of
the militant network led by Jala-
luddin Haqqani are believed to
operate.
The two intelligence officials
who gave word of the strike said
the exact identities of the four
killed were unclear. The officials
spoke on condition of anonymity
because they were not authorized
to speak to media on the record.
Pakistani formally protests the
missile strikes as violations of its
sovereignty, but many analysts
believe it has a secret deal with
the U.S. allowing them.

BECOME A FAN OF THE
DAILY ON FACEBOOK
And get instant updates on our top stories.


01

8A - Thursday, October 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Berenson preaches offensive toughness.

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
After playing 987 games as a
defenseman protecting NHL creas-
es, Michigan hockey coach Red
Berenson knows the price forwards
need to pay to be successful in front
of the net.
Two games into the season,
Berenson hasn't seen any of his for-
wards consistently offer up their
bodies in front
of the pipes. But NOTEBOOK
when his play-
ers do swarm the net, the effort is
rewarded. After failing to score a
goal in its previous game, Michigan
found more success swarming the
net in its 6-1 win against Alaska-
Anchorage Saturday.
"On Friday night, we were get-
ting good shots from the point,"
Berenson said. "But the goalie saw
all the shots. We never got any-
body in front. Our forwards weren't
determined enough to get to the
front of the net. Saturday, we were,
and that was the difference."
While the physical role currently
remainsvacant,there's a212-pound
glimmer of hope in senior Brian
Lebler. He scored his first goal of
the season on a deflection early in
the game and has been one player to
go to the net occasionally.

"Lebler should be (the guy in
front)," Berenson said. "He's a
senior, he's a big body, and he's a
big strong kid. He's played that role
from time to time, but we're still not
as consistently good at it. I could
never puta (Detroit Red Wings for-
ward Tomas) 'Holmstrom' stamp
on anybody on this team until they
can do it night after night."
YOUNG GUNS COOL DOWN:
Freshman forward Chris Brown
led all freshman in points on the
weekend with two goals and an
assist. His three points were tied
with junior Matt Rust for the most
on the team. None of the other six
freshman have recorded a point
yet.
"You can't expect your fresh-
man to carry your team," Berenson
said. "But they still need to know
the level of play, the level of com-
mitment and competition to play at
Michigan, and I think they learned
that this weekend."
With six freshmen on offense
and just one on defense, the expe-
rienced blue liners have provided
support not just with producing
offense, but helping the players
along.
"We have brought in a lot of
freshmen forwards and they're
learning real quick," juniordefense-
man Tristin Llewellyn said. "Hav-

ing this veteran group (on defense)
helps really speed up the process."
With experienced teammates
and this weekend off, the for-
wards should be able to get up
to speed in time for their home
opener next Thursday. Whatever
the learning curve may be, Beren-
son doesn't seemed concerned
with his freshmen at this point in
the season.
"The team, really, is as good as
its upperclassmen," Berenson said.
"Freshmen and sophomores need
to be making us better and hopeful-
ly making a little bit of a difference
in different roles."
NOTES: Unlike last season,
whenthe Wolverines were plagued
with injuries early in the season,
the team remains in good health.
Senior forward Anthony Ciraulo
sat out practice with a sore back
yesterday, and junior defenseman
Chad Langlais sat out Monday's
practice with a sore groin, but both
are expected to be 100 percent for
the next game. ... The Wolverines
play in their home opener October
22 against Niagara before flying
east to take on Boston Univer-
sity the following Saturday. They
played the same Thursday/Satur-
day schedule last year, beating the
Purple Eagles 4-2 before losing to
BU 7-2.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Brian Lebler may become the Wolverines' most physical forward, in part because of his 212-pound frame.

Wolverines, Quihano dance around Bearcats in shutout

By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Earlier this week,junior defend-
er Jeff Quihano brought a sombre-
ro to practice and choreographed a
"Mexican Hat Dance."
As a defender who takes very
few shots, Quihano wanted a spe-
cial way CGN
to cel-M
ebrate his CINCINNATI 0
next goal
and intended to reveal the "Hat
Dance" whenever the opportu-
nity presented itself. Little did
he know that he would need his
hat in his next game - during
Wednesday's 2-0 victory at Cin-
cinnati.

In the game's 20th minute, the
Wolverines already led 1-0. Quih-
ano found freshman midfielder
Hamoody Saad on the flank and
vacated his left-back position to
streak up the field.
Saad chipped the ball over
Bearcat defenders back to Quih-
ano, who faced a near-impossi-
ble angle on the baseline. The
defender blasted a shot over the
keeper into the roof of the goal.
Without his sombrero, he needed
to improvise.
"After I scored, one of my
teammates, (senior defenseman)
Julian Robles, told me, 'Go ahead
and do the 'Stanky Leg,' " Quih-
ano said. "So I put my finger on
my nose, made it seem like it was

a smelly scene, and just did the session.
'Stanky Leg.' " They outshot Michigan 26-10
The goal and the dance pro- and won nine corners in the sec-
vided the Wol- and half.
verines with Cincinnati's
the momen- aggressiveplay
tum to secure "After I scored ... kept Michigan
a much-needed (1-2 Big Ten,
victory despite Robles told 9-3-1 overall)
a strong Cin- on the defen-
cinnati perfor- me, 'Go ahead sive for much
mance in the of the final
second half. and do the stanza, but
TheBearcats the Wolver-
(8-6) relied Stanky Leg.'" ines respond-
heavily on the ed. Robles
long ball and led the resis-
were more tance, head-
intent on pushing the ball into the ing numerous balls out of the box.
opposing half than keeping pos- Redshirt sophomore goalkeeper

Chris Blais continued his solid
play by posting six saves in the
winning effort and earning his
fifth shutout of the season.
"Our overall management of
the game was superb - the best
of the season to date," Michi-
gan coach Steve Burns said.
"Our team showed their class in
the first 20 minutes and really
opened up Cincinnati through
some great possession and play
in the flanks.
"The two goals we scored in
that time were deserved, and
we weren't far off delivering the
knockout punch with a third
goal.
"To Cincinnati's credit, they
were up for the challenge and we

showed a lot of poise in weather-
ing their direct play the rest of the
way."
In securing the victory against
the physical Bearcats, Michigan
proved that it can win by employ-
ing many different styles of play.
Such versatility will be needed
as Michigan prepares for its final
stretch of the season against
Akron, Michigan State, North-
western, and Ohio State.
These games will be much
easier if the Wolverines continue
to receive scoring contributions
from unlikely players like Quih-
ano.
Andsomeonehadbetterremind
him to bring his sombrero to the
game next time.

0I

*Ann Arbor 407 E Liberty St., (734) 669-8079
*Ann Arbor-Huron Village 3217 Washtenaw Blvd.
(734) 973-2043

* pelleville n55y 1evileRd.,n(734)n d97-350
*Ypsilanti 37h5 Carenter Rd., (734) h77-07017
*Open Sunday

Call a small business advisor at: (248) 538-5749
()RadioShack. *%joble

*I

For information on other AT&T
products call t-00-613-9420
'AT&T imposes: a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with obligations and charges imposed byState and Federalltelecom regulations; State and Federal Universal Service charges; and surchargestfor government
assessments on At&TThese fees are not taxes or governmentreuired charges.
3Gnot vaiablein allareas. Coverageisnotavailable in l q aras ovage map atstoresfor detai Limited-time offer.Other onditions&restrictions apply. See contract&rateplan brochure for detail Subscriber mustlive&have amaing addrwithinAT&T'sowned wireless network coverage area, Up to $36activ.
fee applies. Equipment price&avaimay varyhymrk&may otb a from independentretalers Early Termination Fee:n oneicancelled inthefirst 30days, butuptoS35restcking feemayapply toequipment returns;thereafterupto $175. Some agents impose add'fees, AT&T Promotion Card:USBConnect
Mercury pricebefore AT&TvPromotion Card, DataConnectpa&rih 2year contract is 119.99 Minimum $60 Dataonnect plan required Allow 60days frfulfillment. Card MaybeUsed only inthe US.&isvald for120days afterissuance date butisnotredeemable forcash &cannot beused forcashwithdrawalatATMs
or automated gasoline p ps, Card request must w pos akd by 12/08/91 & you must be a customer for 30 consecutive days to receive card. Sales tax calculated based on price of uiactivated equipment DataConnectplanis not unvimited & substantial charges mayhbe incurred if included allowance is exceeded.
c2009 AT&T l)teitllual property. Service provided by A&1 Moby. All rights reserved. A&, the AT& og, and lother marks contained herein are adoemafks of AT&T intllctial property and/or AT&T affiliated companies Allother marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.


the

-side




weekend
essentials
Oct. 15 to Oct. 18

SAVING OLD
*SOUNDS.
A HOME ON CAMPUS FOR
FORGOTTEN INSTRUMENTS
BY LEAH BURGIN |I DAILY ARTS WRITER

I ELEVISIUN
Before there was
"SNL," the world had
Monty Python. Though
the Pythons have
been largely inactive
since "Monty Python's
The Meaning of Life"
was released in 1983,
IFC is airing a mini-
series documenting
the comedy troupe's
rise to greatness
and graceful fall into
cult fandom. "Monty
Python: Almost the
Truth (The Lawyer's
Cut)" premieres
Sunday at 9 p.m.
ON DISPLAY
Grey skies, barren
fields, solemn figures
- not the ingredi-
ents for cheery art.
Still, photographers
Robert and Shana
ParkeHarrison prove
there can be beauty in
bleakness. Their sur-
real, monochromatic
portraits explore the
isolation of humans
in a world dominated
by technology, chaos
and suffering. Their
work is on display in
the Slusser Gallery on
North Campus from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. tomor-
row. The event is free.

Among the roughly 2,500 instruments preserved in the Stearns Collections are a Javanese gamelan,
the first mass-produced Moog synthesizer, the theremin used for the radio show "The Green Hornet"
and a collection ofttrumpets donated by a former trumpeter of the Boston Symphony Orchestra.

FILM
"Under Our Skin," a
documentary about
the untold effects of
Lyme disease, plays
tonight at 6:45 p.m. at
the Michigan Theater.
The movie exposes
how America's health
care system has fre-
quently misdiagnosed
the disease, which
affects three million
people nationwide.
The condition can
become debilitating
if left unchecked.

There are always
new things to
discover about
the instruments,
and they start
to tell very long,
complex stories.
- STEVEN BALL
DIRECTOR OF THE STEARNS COLLECTION

tifully hand-
varytng tn
shape and
size, stretches
out across
the room. The metallic bars of
several xylophone-like instru-
ments glint dimly in the harsh
fluorescent lighting. Decora-
tive curly-cues of golden dragon
tails morph into snarling snouts
that guard the massive instru-
ments upon which they perch.
The first question: "What is
this thing?"
The second: "CanI touch it?"
This monstrous and unique
instrument,aJavanesegamelan,
is the jewel of the Stearns Col-
lection of Musical Instruments.
Traditionally used to accom-
pany Javanese shadow-puppet
shows, this obscure instrument
is rarely found outside of East
Asia. Even though this mag-
nificent treasure is housed right
here on campus, many students
don't know of its existence.
Too bad the Stearns Col-
lection is similarly obscure. If
more students knew about it,
more would take the opportu-

nity to touch - and even play -
the gamelan.
It's not surprising that the
Stearns Collection is over-
looked - less than 5 percent of
its approximately 2,500 musical
instruments are permanently
displayed, and of this small per-
centage, the majority of the dis-
plays are tucked away in a widely
unpopulated wing of the School
of Music on North Campus.
This wasn't always the case,
though. Between 1914 and 1974,
the entire collection enjoyed
constant exposure and public-
ity. Housed in the upper lobby
of Hill Auditorium (where some
remnants of the old exhibit still
remain), the collection used
to be widely admired. Indeed,
according to the collection's
website, "many long-time Ann
Arborites still remember how
the displays looked" from this
time period.
So why the devolution? Why
should students care about
some moldy old instruments
that have fallen into obscurity?
What makes the Stearns Collec-
tion so special?
Originally donated to the
University in 1899 by Frederick

M. Stearns, a wealthy business-
man and pack rat from Detroit,
the collection is unique in that
Stearns collected everything.
Similar to his acquisitions of
parasols, mummies, conch
shells and mollusks, no instru-
ment was beyond Stearns's
interest.
Since then, the collection has
grown from Stearns's donation
of 940 instruments into a behe-
moth containing around 2,500.
Because of the efforts of several
individuals the collection has
earned world-wide notoriety
among selected circles. Past
director Robert A. Warner pro-
motedthe collectioninthe1950s
when an interest in authentic
performances with historically
accurate instruments arose.
Professors William Malm and
Judith Becker traveled to Asia
in the '60s and '70s and brought
backmany eastern instruments,
including one of the earliest
complete and playable Javanese
gamelans.
Just by browsing the col-
lection's online catalogue on
Google Books or actually visit-
ing the displays, one can under-
See STEARNS, Page 4B

CONCERT
Too broke to see Wilco
this weekend? No wor-
ries; Gandalf Murphy
and the Slambovian
Circus of Dreams
are coming to The
Ark tomorrow! Often
branded as "Hillbilly
Pink Floyd," the band
will be celebrating its
annual Hillbilly Pirate
Ball, which means you
should come costumed
and prepared for a wild
show (purple pancakes
may be involved).
Tickets are $25 and
the show starts at 8
p.m. (doors at 7:30).

PHOTOS BY SAID ALSALAH & DESIGN BY MO STYCH

0


2B - Thursday, October 15, 2009
iPHONE APP

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

-I-
0
C)
Z
m
0
C
-
m

INTERWEB
EAVESDROPPING
(315): You put a thong on
my pumpkin didn't you.
Diablo Cody: If my children
ever have their own reality
show, I plan to get topless
in the first episode.
Today, the 86 year old
guy next door told me I
FML needed three things in life
to succeed: a cook book, a
boyfriend, and a boob job.
FM L

High five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five answers to a
curious question.
Stashu Kybartas
ProductionSeniorLecturer, Departmentof ScreenArts &Cultures
What are your favorite
avant-garde films?
1. "San Soleil" (1984), Chris Marker: The ultimate reflexive film about time, seeing, memory,
meaning and history. It is the "The Waste Land" as a motion picture.
2. "Nude on the Moon" (c. 1970), Doris Wishman: This might better fit the category of "Under-
ground Film." Wishman sets this outrageously artless science fiction film in a California nudist colo-
ny. Naked humanoids with aluminum foil antennae find thermselves on the moon.
3. "Mothlight" (1963), Stan Brakhage: Sublime - what can I say? A masterpiece made without
a film camera.
4. "Alpsee" (1994), Matthias Muller: A richly photographed psycho-drama without words (my
favorite kind of film). Move over Hitchcock and Sirk.
5. "But You Knew That Already" (2007), Sean Stewart: A brilliant film produced by one of our
own students who graduated a few years back. Enigmatic suburban angst in a coming-of-age drama.
It is one of the funniest films I have seen. There are almost no words.

0

URINALS: THE GAME
In this game, you are endowed with
the "prestige and responsibility" of
being the dude who traffics portly men
in and out of urinals and toilets. We're
not entirely sure of the need of this pro-
fession, but it works well in the game, in
which you draga line to match the men
with the toilets they desire. The game is
free this week, so get it now.

ONLINE GAME OAF THE WEEK
SPARK
Drive a weird spaceship-boat-thing
that can somehow jump through a
series of levels with different objec-
tives including finding the exit,
destroying enemies and collecting
energy orbs. With simple controls and
a decent variety of weapons, "Spark"
Soffers gamers a refreshing new look
into the old-fashioned jump-and-
shootroutine.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/playspark
O ei igan ail P R E S E N T S
t he N iN C ASSI Fi D EN A LM..P

TRAILER REVIEW
ASTRO BOY
SUMMIT
"I got machine guns? In my butt?" These are the last
words of the latest "Astro Boy" trailer, and the lines
manage to stand out from other more groan-worthy
gags. In the film, the big, bad military schemes to use
Astro Boy as an instrument of war. Heavy on curves
and light on textures, the film's graphic style is closer to
"The Incredibles" than the ancient anime on which the
film is based. Hopefully this adaptation will fare better
than the rainbow-vomit train wreck of last year's "Speed
Racer."
-JACKPORT ER
Love Sports? GetPaid

23

^ "I

s
' nn Arbor

3nsss
- ,, .t~l

0
0


SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient mapl
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


Symposium featuring presentations from IT security experts:
Wade Baker, Verizon Business Security Solutions
Cybercrime: The Actors, TheirActions, and
What They're After
Moxie Marlinspike, Institute for Disruptive Studies
Some Tricks for Defeating SSL in Practice
Adam Shostack and Andrew Stewart, authors
Book: The New School of Information Security
Terrence Berg, U.S. Dept. of Justice
Case Study: The Spam King
Dr. J. Alex Halderman, University of Michigan
Cold Boot Attacks Against Disk Encryption
University of Michigan 'T

0

fi


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 15, 2009 - 3B

Obama's big prize

L ast week, the president
of the United States was
awarded the Nobel Prize for
Peace "for his extraordinary efforts
to strengthen
international 1
diplomacy and
cooperation
between peo-
ples." Naturally,l
there is only one
appropriate reac- ZACH
tion to news like SIMovL
this: disgust.
Like the Taliban, which shock-
ingly disagreed with the Norwegian
Nobel Committee's decision, many
on the political right in this coun-
try have also decried this terrible
injustice. As Rush Limbaugh put it
last Friday, "I'm on the same side of
something with the Taliban ... We
all are on the same side as the Tali-
ban." Now, I don't know if it was just
the pills talking, but Rush is right.
Today, we are all Taliban.
How could this have happened?
Popular conservative blogger and
founder of RedState.com Erick
Erickson provided one possibility:
"I did not realize the Nobel Peace
Prize had an affirmative action
quota for it, but that is the only thing'
I can think of for this news." Not a
bad thought. President Obama has
always been quick to play the race
card. Whether it was being born
black, being the first black editor of
the Harvard Law Review, the third
African American elected to the
Senate or the first black president,
this is clearly a guy who's only got-
ten to the top thanks to the color of
his skin.
Even on the left, many people
couldn't believe it. As prominent
lefty Barack Obama put it, "I do not
feel that I deserve to be in the com-
pany of so many of the transforma-
tive figures who've been honored by
this prize - men and women who've
inspired me and inspired the entire
world through their courageous
pursuit of peace." What a diva.
Also, let's not forget, the Nobel
Peace Prize is a storied and honored
award they don't give away to just
any guy off the street. You have to
really earn it. Whether it was noted
peace advocates like Yasser Arafat
(1994 laureate) or Henry Kissinger
(1973 laureate), you have to do at
least something transient and irrel-
evant before they give you one of
those giant, meaningless gold coins.
And besides, Barack Obama
hasn't done anything yet. As Alfred
Nobel put it in his will, the prize
should be given to the person who
"duringthe preceding year (..) shall
have done the most or the best work
for fraternity between nations, for
the abolition or reduction of stand-
ing armies and for the holding and
promotion of peace congresses."
Now this award has been sullied
by a guy whose only accomplish-
ments have been awakening a new
vision of American Exceptionalism
around the globe, re-engaging the
United States with an alienated and
hostile world, extending an open
hand of peace to Muslim nations,
working for the non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons, trying to broker a
new and lastingpeace in Israel, tak-
ing drastic steps to solve a complete
international financial meltdown
and, finally, quitting smoking. But

come on, what has he actually done?
But there is a silver lining. Thanks
to winning the Nobel Prize imme-
diately after his failing to bringthe
Olympic games to Chicago, a new
and exciting trend has taken the
anti-Obama movement by storm.
First, there were the "birthers"
who unraveled the decades-old
conspiracy that Obama was actually
born in Nairobi or Jakarta or some
other weird-sounding place. Then,
there were the "deathers," those
who discovered Obama's secret plan
to euthanize your grandmother
unless you worked for ACORN, reg-
istering illegal immigrants to vote
for federally funded gay abortions.
Now, we've got the "douchers."
This is a true and faithful Country
First crowd who celebrates when
America fails and woefully whines
when she succeeds. "Douchers"
want to alert Americans to the
dangers we face. And to do so, they
are willing to respond to events
in the most backwards way pos-
sible, just so everyone can see how
crazy Barack Obama's America has
become.
It was only a few years ago that
whenever people criticized the
execution of the war in Iraq or the
reasons for it, they were immediate-
ly accused of being in an Al-Qaeda
Today, we are
all Taliban.
sleeper cell. But Commie-Nazis
like Sean Penn and the rest of those
Hollywood elite were clearly low-
balling it. Firm, peaceful criticism is
so 2004.
These days, "douchers" know the
only real way to support America
is to ecstatically cheer and applaud
bad news for their country. This is
just the way the conservative group
Americans for Prosperity did on
camera when Chicago's failed Olym-
pic bid was announced. This is the
same organizing committee that
helped the voices of literally dozens
of tragically misinformed shut-ins
be heard at this summer's town hall
meetings. These "douchers" have
fought against our march toward
socialism (or fascism or communism
or progressivism, or whichever term
Glenn Beck prefers that day) by
shouting down a wheelchair-bound
woman with no insurance or a wait-
ress who couldn't pay for her child's
medical bills. Real "doucher" values.
But back to the story of the
week, Obama's sham Nobel Prize.
If I had my druthers, we would do
away with the award entirely. Only
Democratic presidents win anyway.
(Except for John McCain's declared
"hero" Teddy Roosevelt) But still, I
think it's time we started giving out
the Nobel Prize for Cognitive Dis-
sonance. It takes a Real American
to look at losing the Olympic games
and our president winningthe
Nobel Peace Prize and know when
you're supposed to boo and when
you're supposed to cheer. If you're
unsure, here's a hint: Just do the one
that feels wrong.
Smilovitz thinks Mike Huckabee
should've won this year's Prize. Give
Huck a shoutout at zachis@umich.edu.

I will use each of these pens to kill a different member of your family.'

A god among geeks

Jonathan Coulton makes
nerds everywhere proud
with his home-spun tunes
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily TV/New Media Editor
One day, geeks will rule the world. Though
this just may sound like a mother's com-
forting words to her picked-on son, it has a
grain of truth. With the combined power of
the Internet and uniquely creative minds,
geeks have built a strong community and an
even stronger culture. With conferences like
Comic-Con, QuakeCon and PAX, TV chan-
nels like G4, gaming magazines like Game
Informer and masses of forums and websites
for every type of nerd imaginable, what was
once a shameful label is now thrust in our
faces wherever we look. It's impossible to
ignore the nerds' presence.
Former computer programmer Jonathan
Coulton doesn't just wear his badge of geek-
dom proudly - he spreads his love of the cul-
ture to the masses as the singer/songwriter
of some of today's most famous geek-rock
songs. Though he always had a love for music,
it wasn't until somewhat recently that he
made the transition from a steady paycheck
and systematic profession to the creative yet
unpredictable world of art.
"In general, I've always been interested in
singing," Coulton said in a phone interview
last week before his Thursday night show at
The Ark. "I grew up in a musical
family. We were always singing
and playing instruments and
I started writing somewhere
in maybe junior high or high
school when I picked up gui-
tar and started learning to play
that. You know, it was sort of a
lifelong hobby - just being able
to write and record for fun. It
wasn't until the end of 2005 that
I actually left the day job and
started doing the song-writing
thing full-time."
In September 2005, Coulton
started a creative experiment he
called "Thing a Week," where
he published one new song
every week for the duration of
a year. While such experiments
are more common now, four
years ago it was a pretty bold
endeavor.
"I was always sort of really
hating it," he said. "It was easy
the first couple weeks because I
had a few ideas that I had stored
up, and I guess when I was first i
starting it was pretty low pres-
sure. You know, nobody was lis-
tening. And then as I got into it
and ran out of ready-made ideas,
it was starting from scratch
every week and that - it's kind
of a terrifying place to be when
you're trying to create some-

thing and you're starting from absolutely
nothing."
Though his "Thing a Week" project was
taxing, it became an Internet sensation pro-
pelling him into fame and pushing him to a
new creative level.
"Frequently, the weeks that were worst for
me and where I spent the most time walking
around desperately trying to come up with
something and really hating myself and hat-
ing the whole project, those were the weeks
when the good stuff seemed to happen,"
Coulton explained. "And you know, I don't
know if it was digging deep as much as it was
just allowing strange things to happen out of
... desperation."
One of Coulton's most famous songs "Still
Alive" is probably best known as the credits
song for the popular video game "Portal." It
outlines the perspective of the game's antag-
onist, an artificially intelligent computer
named GLaDOS, after her defeat. Another
popular tune of his, "Code Monkey," follows
a computer programmer looking for love, and
in "Re: Your Brains" a zombie tries to ratio-

It's somewhat surprising that such a spe-
cific type of music could appeal to the mass-
es, but Coulton has found his niche and has
carved out a new genre that happens to work
out pretty well for him. He recently released a
live performance album, Best. Concert. Ever.,
and is constantly booked for shows.
"I'm not sure I would've guessed - in fact,
I'm quite certain I never would've guessed
- there'd be such a big market for nerd
rock," he said. "I believe that classic, solid
songwriting is going to reach people regard-
less of genre. (Popular music) has to reach
as many people as possible to be successful,
but when you're a guy like me, you're sort of
doing everything yourself, you. can afford
to be- a niche player. I can write stuff that's
really honest and true and you know, stuff I
really believe in."
Perhaps his honesty is what attracts peo-
ple to his music. For years, nerds were looked
down on in popular culture and encouraged
to hide what set them apart. In this new
era, geek is chic, truthfulness is revered
and bared emotions are encouraged. Last
'r' rAdfIA h . t7n n1a Cm ltn '


nalize with his former coworker by telling Thursday, the crow at Jonatan outons
him "All we want to do is eat your brains / concert at The Ark felt like an old group of
We're not unreasonable; I mean, no one's friends rather than a mass of strangers with Community Involvement
gonna eat your eyes." a common musical taste. Coulton fans share Bible Studies
"I write frequently about kind of odd sub- a deeper appreciation for technology, video Step Teams
ject matters and geeky stuff, and really that's games, comic books and, of course, unusual The possibilities are endless...
because that's the stuff I'm thinking about music. The nerd presence is alive and thriv- all we need is you!
and the stuff that I'm interested in," Coulton ing and Jonathan Coulton's compositions not
said. "I like to write about characters that only embrace that culture, but also cultivate + 1
have problems, characters that are confused it and inspire the next generation of geeks to
or characters that are monsters." display their passion with pride.
"

A


4B - Thursday, October 15, 2009
STEARNS
From Page 1B
stand the collection's scope. In
addition to the Javanese gamelan,
Stearns also includes the first mass-
produced Moog synthesizer, the
RCA theremin used for the radio
program "The Green Hornet," a
collection of trumpets donated by
Armando Ghitalla (a former trum-
peter of the Boston Symphony
Orchestra), numerous rattles, reed
instruments, drums and horns
from different cultures around the
world and a fantastic collection of
forged instruments.
It's this wide range of instru-
ments that, according to Dr. Steven
Ball, assistant professor of music
and current director of the exhibit,
renders the collection unique.
"Stearns is the only collection (of
instruments) that has truly anthro-
pological origins," Ball said. "Each
instrument in the collection is a
product of its maker and of its time
and of its place."
Because the collection includes
so many diverse instruments, study
of the collection extends into the
realm of human culture.
A prime example of this anthro-
pological insight lies with the
forged instruments of the collec-
tion. Some of the keyboards origi-
nally donated by Stearns were
purchased from notorious Italian
forger Leopoldo Franciolini, whose
business boomed during the late
19th and early 20th century. In
one particularly incredible forg-
ery, Franciolini added two tiers of
keyboards to a basic harpsichord
and then scrawled the signature of
BarolomeoCristofori, awell-known
harpsichord maker from the 1700s
and inventor of the modern piano
forte, on to the instrument.
Inmostcases,anhistoricalobject
subjected to this level of tampering
would be viewed as a travesty. But
for Ball, who intends to create an
exhibit titled "Fantastic Forgeries,"
it's a blessing in disguise.
"When you boil the forgeries
down, usually at the core there are
many important pieces. Forgeries
aren'tjustdisposable, infactthey're
sort of like sleeping beauties," Ball
said. "We can learn about the origi-
nal instruments at the base of the
forgery and in this case, also learn
about the culture of 19th-century
museum world. And then there's
the whole aspect of Franciolini
himself. The instrument tells you
about the forger and the buyer."
"There are always new things
to discover about the instruments,
and they start to tell very long,
complex stories," he added.
Unfortunately, one of the stories
the Stearns instruments tell is a
sad one - while the collection was
growing during its golden years,
the instruments were also tarnish-
ing due to a lack of adequate preser-
vation techniques. A combination
of what Ball calls "a chronic lack

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

rializing an instrument in the name
of a relative. For example, let's say
you had an uncle who really loved
clarinets. You could pick a clari-
net from the collection, donate a
certain sum and have that instru-
ment be named in memory of your
uncle."
However, Stepanchuk firmly
believes that the best
way to help the collec-
tion get through (and
even grow in) these
economic times is to
partner with other
arts programs and reC
museums. She hopes
to see more collabora -of t
tions with other Uni-
versity departments,
like the Kelsey Muse- ho
um, the University N
Musical Society and b
the Exhibit Museum
in the future.
"In the past, we've
housed special exhib-
its in other muse-
ums," she said. "For
example, a couple of
years ago there was
a fantastic exhibit DIRE
at the Kelsey that
explored the idea
of reconstructing
ancient instruments and trying
to replicate the sounds and music
the instruments made. Frederick
Stearns also donated large parts of

his collection to other institutions,
like the mollusk collection in the
Exhibit Museum and the mummy
collection at the Detroit Institute
of Arts. We hope to consider col-
laborating with other recipients of
Stearns's massive collection."
All these ideas are subject to
change, however, and largely
Museums are a
ally critical part
he networks the
use information
ecause they are
advocates for
preservation.
- STEVEN BALL
CTOR OF THE STEARNS COLLECTION
depend on funding and public
interest.
Both Ball and Stepanchuk stress
the importance of students get-

ting involved with the collection,
whether in working as part of its
administration, taking a tour or
simply looking at the website. Ball
and Stepanchuk are eager to get in
contact with anyone with ideas for
an exhibit, instruments to donate
or just an interest in becoming
actively involved with the collec-
tion.
Most importantly, every-
one involved with Stearns
wishes to impress upon
the public just how unique
the collection is and why
it is worth preserving. Ball
emphasizes how important
it is to study these instru-
~'ments, interact with them
and preserve them for future
generations. He stresses that
every object is a concrete
piece of history worth pre-
serving.
"That's why museums are
critically important: The
information that the instru-
ments contain is stable so
long as the instruments exist
-it's its ownrecord of itself,"
Ball said. "And because of
thermodynamics, the second
law - entropy - all things
go to hell basically over time,
everything is deteriorating.
Museums are a really critical part
of the networks that house infor-
mation because they are advocates
for preservation."

--------------- - --- - - -

The Stearns Collection was established in
of funding" and a lack of interest
caused the collection to nose dive
into its current condition, with the
collection split and the manage-
ment changing hands.
Appointed on June 1, 2009 as
the collection's new director, Ball
has many ideas to counterbalance
the collection's distressing situa-
tion. His goals focus on stabilizing
and expanding the collection in
addition to getting the community,
especially students, more moti-
vated and involved. Tentative plans
are being proposed to the Univer-
sity regarding a unified, larger
space in which the collection could
be permanently housed. Ball hopes
to acquire such a space within the
next five years.
Students should also expect to
see a new website for the collection
that may contain one of Ball's other
initiatives - an online catalogue of
the Stearns instruments directed
specifically toward student use.
Ball also extends a campus-
wide call for any antique or unique
instruments that may be "looking
for a home." In the spirit of the col-
lection's founder, Ball is extremely
interested in expanding the col-
lection and will take a look at any
instrument. He asserts that this is
a new direction, as the directors
of the past three decades have not
shown much interest in increasing
the collection's size.
The most promising plans for

the future will hopefully be real-
ized in extending the collection's
current outreach programs in the
form of lectures, performances and
tours. Ball believes that "when you
stand in front of an instrument,
you should have the ability to expe-
rience it." Instruments cannot be
fully appreciated when they are
immobile and behind glass.
Carol Stepanchuk, docent of the
Stearns Collection and head tour
guide, couldn't agree more. While
working with the collection for the
past four years, Stepanchuk has
taken many individuals on tours
and attests to the power a tactile
connection with the instrument
can have.
"Sometimes students find it very
therapeutic to play the instru-
ments, especially the gamelan," she
said. "There's just something about
that instrument that can take stress
away."
Stepanchuk seems hopeful that
under Ball, the collection will flour-
ish. She is up for the implementa-
tion of his new ideas and even has a
few suggestions of her own.
"In the past, Stearns has had
an 'adopt an instrument' program
where individuals can become the
guardians of an instrument in poor
condition - they restore the instru-
ment and keep it in good condition
until the collection wants to house
it again," she said.
"There is also the idea of memo-

SAID ALSALAH/Daily

About 5 percent of the collection is on permanent display.

'MYSTICAL NINJA STARRING GOEMON'(1998) N64
Even if it doesn't translate, 'Mystical Ninja' endures

By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
There havebeenmanysuccessful
Japanese games released in Ameri-
ca - "Mega Man" and "Harvest
Moon" immediately come to mind
- that sport relatable characters
and universal gameplay, stretching
the games' fanbase across oceans.
And then there's Goemon, the
wacky, pipe-swinging ninja with a
hairdo that resembles a giant blue
pineapple and his robot doppel-
ganger who boxes other robots.
Goemon stars in the "Mysti-
cal Ninja" series, which was quite
possibly the most bizarre group of
Japanese games aimed at popular
American audiences in the 1990s.
(This throne, naturally, has been
reclaimed in recent years by the
"Katamari Damacy" games.) The
best, and easily the strangest of the
bunch was "Mystical Ninja Starring
Goemon" for the Nintendo 64, the
fifth game in the series but only the

second released in North America.
After playing through "Star-
ring Goemon" with all the head
scratching and constant utter-
ances of "What the hell?," it should
become obvious why only one more
entry, the enjoyable but infinitely
more frustrating "Goemon's Great
Adventure," ever found its way to
American store shelves.
At first glance, the games
wouldn't seem that difficult to sell.
After all, the action-adventure
gameplay, town exploring and epic
quests merged the best bits from
the Mario and Zelda series. In the
game, there is strategy involved in
switching between the four play-
able characters and their special
abilities (Goemon, his flatulent
best friend Ebismaru, tea-drinking
robot Sasuke and half-mermaid
Yae), as well as plenty of variety
between the on-foot segments and
the robot battles that basically play
out like first-person "Punch-Out!!"
For whatever weirdness "Mys-

tical Ninja" lacked in gameplay, it
more than made up for it in story
and presentation. You're barely
five minutes into the game before
a giant, peach-shaped spaceship
lands on Mt. Fuji. After Goemon
fights his way to the ship, he discov-

Naturally, the only way to stop
him is to ride on the backs of drag-
on gods, teleport with the help of
magic tea houses and equip robots
with roller skates so they can pull
off extreme tricks while destroy-
ing entire towns in the name of the

ers that feudal good guys. And
Japan is in the if mixing robots,
midst of being spaceships and
commandeered M erging the Eastern Euro-
by a group of ~. pean theater
theater-loving most appealing architecture
aliens who dub aspects of M ario into feudal
themselves the Japan sounds
"Peach Moun- and Zelda games. just anauhro-
tain Shoguns." nistic enough
Their leader, elevate the game
an angel-winged to a plateau of
samurai named Spring Breeze Dan- artful goofiness, well, so much the
cin', explains his nefarious plot to better.
transform the country into his own Granted, much of my enjoyment
private stage where he can perform of the game as a child most likely
musicals for all eternity ... or some- stemmed from the incredibly poor
thing like that. And he reveals all translation and my own unfamil-
of this through a song-and-dance iarity with Japanese culture. For
number. With a laugh track. example, the character of Goemon

is based on a legendary bandit from
the 1500s who was essentially
the Japanese Robin Hood, steal-
ing gold from the rich and giving
it to the poor. (One of video-game
Goemon's abilities is to hurl stolen
coins as projectile weapons.) Not
to mention that the villain's seem-
ingly nonsensical theater obsession
is actually modeled after kabuki, an
ancient Japanese performance art.
Had these things been apparent to a
certain young American boy at the
time, I mighthave had more respect
for the game beyond laughing at the
silly hair.
But there's no denying that the
pure ridiculousness of "Mystical
Ninja" is what's kept it alive in my
memory all these years, long after
other generic action-adventures
faded away. And even pulling back
all the silliness, there's still a very
strong game to explore. The puz-
zles are challenging, the in-game
trek across Japan is daunting in all
the right ways and the feeling you

get upon seeing the countryside for
the first time is comparable to that
warm-and-fuzzy sensation of rid-
ing into the sunrise on horseback
in "The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of
Time." Plus, you learn a ton about
Japanese geography, thanks to the
talking dogs along the way.
And maybe it's just a side effect
of the translation, but much of the
humor can be refreshingly dis-
arming. Take the gatekeepers who
guard the entrance to Goemon's
hometown,whotellyouthatthey're
just going to keep standing in the
same exact spot until you've beaten
the game. "Kinda painful ... kinda
depressing," one of the guards says.
It's enough to make you feel for all
the other non-player characters
in all the other adventure games
you've ever played. In instances
like this, "Mystical Ninja" may not
know how to appeal to a main-
stream American audience, but it
does know how embody the soul of
a damn good video game.

0


AND THEY WOULD'VE
GOTTEN AWAY WITH IT,
TOO, IF IT WEREN'T FOR
THOSE MEDDLING ARTS
WRITERS.
JINKIES! WRITE FOR
DAILY ARTS!
E-mail battlebota@umich.edu
for an application and/or Scooby Snack.

0



