A NEW VOICE
How Brandon Graham has
a more vocal leader on a p

cliic %idigan BaiI~j

SAnn Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, October 6, 2009

michigandaily.com

DONATION DIVIDENDS:
PART 2 OF A 5-PART SERIES
A steady
stream of
donations

The role thousands
of small donations
play in 'U' programs
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
and KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporters
It's a startling fact that many
are unaware of, but the major-
ity of individuals who donate to
the University never graduated
from it. Instead, these people are
friends of the University - mean-
ing they support the institution
for some other reason.
For many of these people, a
spouse or family member has
graduated from the University.
Others may give because they
have benefited from a service the

University offers, like being treat-
ed at the University of Michigan
Health System, or because they
enjoy attending University-relat-
ed events, like football games at
the Big House or fine arts perfor-
mances at Hill Auditorium.
All totaled, 372,931 donors -
most of whom were individuals
- gave to the University during
the last major capital campaign,
which ran from 2000 to 2008.
While that number is less than
the University's roughly 460,000
living alumni and the majority of
gifts come from non-alumni, Vice
President for Development Jerry
May said the surprising lack of
individual alumni giving is not
unusual.
"Only 15 to 20 percent of alun-
ni give in any given year," May
See SERIES, Page 7

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman delivers her State of She University address yesterday afternoon in the Bias Auditorium of the Ross School of Business.
Cole-man talks research, budge

z THE ALUMNI SPLIT
Non-alumni donations: 57%
Alumni donations: 43%
0 Z w DONATIONS BY AGE
> z ue39 years and under: 20%
40 to 49 years:19%
50 years and over: 61%

In State of the 'U'
address, president
charts daring course,
despite budget woes
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily NewsEditor
"Our University has performed
remarkably well given this eco-
nomic downturn."
That was the message from
University President Mary Sue
Coleman during her State of the
University address yesterday.
Speaking before a crowd of

approximately 100 people in the
Ross School of Business's Blau
Auditorium and with a live stream
of the speech on the University's
website, Coleman discussed a wide
range of University affairs, outlined
new programs and initiatives and
laid out her vision for the future of
the University.
Coleman outlined two main
initiatives in her speech. The first
was a major push to strengthen the
University's efforts toward envi-
ronmental sustainability, and the
second was an investment in infra-
structure to better connect Central
and North Campus.
Outlining the University's new
sustainability initiative, Coleman

said she will chair a board of Uni-
versity leaders and executives who
will oversee the endeavor by setting
University-wide goals and review-
ing proposals for central funding.
As part of the effort, Donald
Scavia, director of the Graham
Environmental Sustainability
Institute, has been appointed to the
position of special counsel to the
president for sustainability. In
addition to serving in this new role,
Scavia will maintain his current
duties with the GESI.
As special counsel to the presi-
dent for sustainability, Scavia will
be responsible for advising Cole-
man and the University's team of
executive officers on sustainability

efforts, working on student-driven
sustainability efforts and also plan-
ning and coordinating a plethora of
sustainability programs and activi-
ties on campus.
In her speech, Coleman also
announcedthecreationoftheOffice
of Campus Sustainability. Terry
Alexander, who currently serves
as the executive director of the
Department of Occupational.Safety
and Environmental Health at the
University, will lead the new office,
which was created by restructuring
the OSEH department.
In his role as OCS Director, Alex-
ander will be responsible for coor-
dinating sustainability efforts with
See COLEMAN, Page 7


LSA senior makes bid for City Council

E
poll
wer
i

Like
gradua
senior
finish y
mentsf
and nea
most S
ing his
groups
ingfor
Inst
paign f
Elha
Arbor's

lhady says his from East Madison Street south-
ward past Ann Arbor-Saline Road
tical aspirations and includes South Quad Residence
Hall, Fletcher Residence Hall and
e 'born and bred the Michigan Stadium.
Elhady said he's running as an
n Ann Arbor Independent because he wants to
transcend political party affiliation.
By DYLAN CINTI "I feel it represents the ideology
For the Daily of independent solutions and inde-
pendent thinking I'm going to bring
most students planning to to Fourth Ward," he said.
te at the end of this term, LSA The Nov. 3 electionswill decide if
Hatim Elhady is working to he can put that ideology into prac-
p his last remaining require- tice. But Elhady is up against tough
for his majors in economics odds, Eugene Kang, the last student
ar eastern studies. But unlike to run for City Council in 2005 was
eniors, Elhady isn't spend- unsuccessful in his bid to represent
extra time leading student Ward 2.
, going to the bars or apply- Elhady grew up in Detroit, but
jobs orgraduate school. he said his interest in politics was
ead, he's running his cam- "born and bred in Ann Arbor."
or City Council. "When I came here," he said, "it
dy hopes to represent Ann was an entirely different world from
4th Ward, which extends See CANDIDATE, Page 3

JED MOcH/Daily
University senior Hatim Elhady is a candidate for City Council in the Fourth Ward.

ANN ARBOR GOVERNMENT
City Council hears budget talk, tailgate issues

CAMPUS POLITICS
Chair of College
Re publicans
steps down

Facing impeachment,
Chaffin announces
his resignation
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
"Don't worry - no drama," said
Gordon Chaffin to hesitant board
members of the University's chapter
of College Republicans as they trick-
led in last night in the Tappan Room
of the Michigan Union.
After speculating that comments
he made on his Facebook page and
in an interview with The Michigan
Independent meant thathe would be
immediately impeached, Chaffin, an
LSA senior, announced his resigna-
tion as chair of the club.
Nineboardmembers plus five curi-
ous onlookers watched Chaffin as he
stood up and apologized for talking
with The Michigan Daily about his
potential impeachment before the
matter was settled within the group.
"A couple ofhours ago, we decided
to resolve the situation," he said. "I
decided to resign. I feel that it is the
best way to move forward for the
healthofthe club. I apologize official-
ly, and now to you each individually."
Chaffin's comments on his Face-
book page, expressing support for

President Barack Obama's health
care plan, as well as his decision to
take part in an interview with The
Michigan Independent, a left-lean-
ing campus publication, without
seeking the group's permission,
were the main reasons he sus-
pected executive board members
planned to impeach him.
At the meeting last night, Chaf-
fin pre-empted the possibility of
impeachment and made the resig-
nation announcement before any-
thing could happen.
"There were just some serious
disagreements between myself and
all of you as to how I should express
my personal opinions in public," he
said. "That is something that I won't
cave in on, and I respect all of your
rightsto disagree."
Charles Bogren, vice chairman
external, accepted Chaffin's apology
with a firm handshake.
According to the group's consti-
tution, Bogren and LSA sophomore
Gregory Cairns, vice chair internal,
will be replacing Chaffin as chair
until elections.
Bogren said that Chaffin is wel-
come back in the group and to join
him on outings to the shootingrange.
"Thank you for your time. I am
glad we could fix this in an ami-
cable way," Bogren said after Chaf-
See RESIGNATION, Page 3

State Rep. Warren For the new fiscal year - which
began Oct. 1 - there will be an
says tough budget extra 11 percent cut to the amount
of money the city of Ann Arbor
cuts are unavoidable receives from' Lansing, which
translates to about $1.16 million.
By EMILY ORLEY Though Warren said she voted
1 Daily StaffReporter against the cut, she said others at
- -the state's capital did not follow
State Rep. Rebekah Warren suit.
(D-Ann Arbor) addressed City "I thought that this was a pretty
Council last night to talk about the draconian cut," Warren said. "And
bleak status of the state budget and there are many other cuts we are
recent legislative progress. doing right now in Lansing that try

to balance our budget."
Warren said she believes Michi-
gan has the tools and responsibil-
ity to balance the budget and that
cuts aren't the best approach mov-
ing forward.
"We have the ability at the state
level to raise revenue, to stem
spendingthrough a very large bud-
get," Warren said. "We have con-
sistently continued to balance our
budget on the backs of those that
we can pass our problems along to,
so sometimes that is local govern-

ments, sometimes that is our uni-
versity and public schools. And I
don't think that's right."
However, Warren said she
strongly supports a proposal
recently brought to the Senate that
would restore revenue cuts.
She said the hope with this pro-
posal is that the Senate willbe able
to restore a portion of tie cuts so
that the decrease in revenue will
not feel as extreme. But if passed,
Warren said the proposal will not
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 3


WEATHER Hl: 62 GOTANEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TO MORROW LU: 50 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
University morgue to house all of county's dead
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS. ..................2 ARTS......................5
Vo CXX, No. 21 SUDOKU..... ...........3 CLASSIFIEDS...............6
@2009 The Michigan Daily OPINION ...!............ ... ....4 SPORTS ................................9
michigondoily como''


2 - Tuesday, October 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailcom

Where the 'U' stores its extra books

Sitting unassumingly on
Greene Street in an old tool
and die factory, Buhr Shelving
Facility looks more like a garage
than a library that houses trea-
sured academic materials.
Opened in1981as an overflow
facility for the library's ever-
expanding collection, Buhr
now holds nearly 2.8 million
items - mostly books, but also
thousands of LPs and micro-
film rolls, according to Susan
Wooding, operations manager
of Hatcher, Buhr and Shapiro
Access Services.
It is the largest single library
in the University Library Sys-
tem, which owns more than 7
million items in total.
The idea of Buhr was con-
ceived in the late 1970s, a time
when many University libraries
were reaching their shelving
capacity, Wooding said.
CRIME NOTES

Buhr was originally intended
to shelve massive quantities of
"low-use" books from around
the University, and at the time it
was among the most advanced
library projects in the world.
In addition to those "low-
use" books, today Buhr also
houses other books that are
unique, rare, requiring pro-
tection, or too large to fit else-
where, Wooding said.
Since opening, Buhr has
essentially become a universal
recipient of odds and ends from
across campus.
Wooding said other libraries
decide what to send Buhr based
on their own criteria, and Buhr
then shelves the items.
Among the prizes of Buhr's
collection are volumes dating
from the 17th century, and cop-
ies of every single dissertation
ever written at the University

- some 34,000.
To maximize space efficien-
cy throughout its four-floor
building, Buhr relies on a novel
system that separates books
by size before shelving them
according to when they arrived
at the storage facility, Wooding
said.
Thisorganizational approach
leads to rather unfriendly
shelves - books by the same
author or about the same sub-
ject can be scattered through-
out the enormous space.
As a result, Buhr's seven stack
rooms are closed to the brows-
ing public. However, to access a
book from the Buhr collection,
students and faculty need only
to request the book online and
it will be delivered to another
campus library, usually within
24 hours.
- DAVID WATNICK

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

loie hours: Sun-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2a.m.
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@ihigadily.oms
tothedaily@michigandasilyome
photo@michigandaily.omo
artspage@ichigandaily.com
opinion@mihinodaiy.omn
sports@michigandailyeom
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
antineads@michigandaily.cow
finace@mnichigandaily.con

JED MOcH/Daily
Stacks of books in the Buhr Shelving Facility. The building, which opened in
1981, houses 2.8 million items including books, LPs and microfilms.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Parked car hit Shower draws Foosball Club Flamenco opera An Alabama judge is set
WHERE: 2108 Stone St. blood practice WHAT: Ines Bacan and to stand trial after allega-
WHEN: Sunday at about 10 Spanish Day present The Fla- tions that he offered leni-
p.m. WHERE: Mary Markley Resi- WHAT: The Foosball Club menco Rock Opera. ency to several male inmates
WHAT: An unknown person} dence Hall welcomes both new and old WHO: Michigan Union Tick- in exchange for sex, the Asso-
drove into a parked car, Uni- WHEN: Monday morning at members to practice to play et Office and The Ark ciated Press reported.

versity Police reported. The car
had minor damages.
Struck by puck
WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Sunday at about 5 p.m.
WHAT: A non-affiliate was hit
by a hockey puck duringthe
Michigan game against Wind-

about 1 a.m.
WHAT: A student cut her right
index finger in the shower,
University Police reported.
Gang graffiti
WHERE: Michigan League
WHEN: Sunday at about 11:20
p.m.

foosball and to learn about
membership.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.M.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Billiards Room
Museum exhibit

WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark, 316 S.
Main St.
Faculty quintet
WHAT: School of Music fac-
ulty will perform in a wood-
wind ensemble.
WHO: Michigan Chanmher
Players

ti
ti
P
w
tr

or. The person was sitting at A aerreporegra WHAT: Richard Barnes WHEN: Today at8 p.m.
he east end of the arena by fiti in the first floor men's bath- photography exhibit "Animal WHERE: E.V. Moore
he locker rooms, University room. The caller identified the Logic" portrays images from Building, Britton Recital
olice reported. The person image tobe a gang symbol. The museums around the world. Hall
vas taken to the hospital for graffiti was easily wiped off, WHO: University of Michigan
reatment. University Police reported. Museumof Art, and the UM CORRECTIONS
Institute for the Humanities
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m. Please report any error in
MORE ONLINEi WHERE: University of the Daily to corrections@
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire Michigan Museum of Art michigandaily.com.


University President,
Mary Sue Coleman has
not signed the Ameri-
can, College and University
Presidents' Climate Commit-
ment, which 694 other col-
lege presidents have signed.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION PAGE 4
In celebration of its 30th
anniversary in France,
McDonald's plans to open
a restaurant in the Louvre muse-
um next month, the UK's Daily
Telegraph reported. Museum
staff and art lovers alike have
expressed outrage at what willbe
the food giant's
1,142nd branch
in France.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak-ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSMiloVitZ ManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skole, Kyl Sni on
ASSn T swn EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
RobertSoave Editorial PageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder.
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:EmmaJeszke,MatthewShutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,ChrisMeszarosoRyanPodges
David Watnick Managing Arts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,WhitneyPow
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS: JoshuaBayer,Carolyn Klarecki,AndrewLapinDavid Riva
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandailycom
ilt Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTOEDITORS:Saidisalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Sam Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandailycom
MaureenStych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPYCHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozalak sales Maoager
SETINGMANAGER:Michaelc otenboer
Ryan Dssinski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:Kayla LaFata
Ben English ProductionManager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
TheMichiganDaily(155N0745-%7) ispublished Mondaythrough Fridayduringthefallandwinter
termsbystudentsattheUniversity of Michigan.One copyis available freeof chargetoallreaders.
Additionaicopiesmay bepickedupat theDaly's officefor$2.Subscriptionsr afallterm,startingin
September, viaU.S.mail are $110. Winter term(January through April)tis $115, yearlong (September
through April)is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced subscription raeOn-campus
subscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.The Michiganoayisamembero
The Associated Press and The AssociatedolgjatePress.

New CEO shakes
up exec team again

4

Chrysler head's move
shows interest in
moving quickly
DETROIT (AP) - With sales
down sharply and pressure to
start generating cash before gov-
ernment loans run out, Chrysler
CEO Sergio Marchionne shook
up his executive team yesterday,
replacing two of his brand man-
agers after just four months and
splitting Dodge into car and truck
units.
The changes show Marchio-
nne's penchant for moving quick-
ly and demanding performance,
industry analysts say. But it's also
a sign that all is not well inside
the company's sprawling head-
quarters complex in the Detroit
suburb of Auburn Hills.
"Something went wrong here,"
said Gary Dilts, a former Chrysler
sales executive who is now senior
vice president of global automo-
tive operations for J.D. Power and
Associates. "He's going to mix and
match this team until he gets the
chemical balance where he wants
it."
Speed is crucial for Marchio-
nne, who also runs Italy's Fiat
Group SpA. It will be at least
18 months before Chrysler can
launch a new car lineup based on
smart, fuel-efficient Fiat designs.
Until then, the third-largest U.S.
car maker must survive with its
current shaky lineup.
Marchionne, who led a stun-
ning resurgence at Fiat, replaced
Peter Fong, 45, as president and
CEO of the Chrysler brand and
Michael Accavitti, 50, as presi-
dent and CEO of Dodge.
Fong also was the company's
top sales executive, and both men
appeared with Marchionne as the
company's public faces just two
weeks ago at the Frankfurt Auto
Show in Germany.
But the moves come just four
days after Chrysler reported a
42-percent drop in September
sales, compared with the same
month a year earlier. Through
the first nine months of the year,
Chrysler sales are off 39 percent,
the largest drop of any major
automaker.
Among Chrysler's problems
is a weak lineup of midsize cars.

Its current entries, the Sebring
and Avenger, have sold poorly and
have received low quality ratings
from J.D. Power and Associates
and Consumer Reports magazine,
which found them inferior to the
top-selling Toyota Camry and
other competitors.
The Sebring-Avenger replace-
ment will be based on a Fiat com-
pact that will be stretched and
widened to fit a midsize car.
Marchionne promises to intro-
duce a new lineup chock with Fiat
small and midsize cars in Novem-
ber, and separating out Dodge's
car business will help rebuild its
image.
The new offerings will also
include trucks and larger cars
from Chrysler that he hopes will
be .more appealing to Americans.
The company's namesake brand
will try to steal customers from
Cadillac and other luxury brands.
Chrysler has been mostly mum
about its new product plan. Even
dealers have been kept in the
dark.
Splitting the Dodge brand into
truck and car operations mimics
what Marchionne did with Fiat,
where he successfully separated
commercial vehicles from passen-
ger cars, said Chrysler spokesman
Gualberto Ranieri.
And a separate truck unit could
also be sold off if Chrysler needs
more cash. Although sales of the
Ram pickup are down 27 percent
for the year, it's still Chrysler's top
selling vehicle at 143,205 through
September.
The U.S. Treasury Depart-
ment allocated roughly $8 billion
for Marchionne and Fiat to keep
Chrysler going until itcan become
profitable again, but its sales can't
seem to rebound with a slumping
economy and the current poor-
selling model lineup. Last year,
under different leadership, the
company lost billions and went
into bankruptcy protection.
Treasury Department officials
have said there will be no more
government cash for Chrysler,
but also have said they "stress-
tested" the $8 billion and it was
enough to keep Chrysler going
after its Chapter 11 restructuring
until it can make money again.
Chrysler so far has received a
total of $15.5 billion from the U.S.
government.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Two men sought
in church
bilking case
Two Maryland men are being
sought in connection with a scheme
that bilked 21 black churches across
Michigan out of $660,000.
Attorney General Mike Cox says
yesterday that Michael Morris and
William Perkins were charged in
Detroit with 10 felonies includ-
ing racketeering and conspiracy to
commit false pretenses.
Cox says leasing companies
gave Morris and Perkins funding
for electronic kiosks delivered to
churches in Detroit, Flint, Sag-
inaw, Inkster, Ferndale, Highland
Park, Port Huron and Ypsilanti.
Church officers believed they were
leasing the video terminals, but
learned they signed agreements to
buy them.
One of the churches, Greater
Emmanuel Institutional Church
of God in Christ in Detroit, is ex-
Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick's former
church.
COLUMBUS, Ohio
Ohio gov. delays
two executions to
review injection
Gov. Ted Strickland yesterday
delayed the state's next two execu-
tions to allow a full review of lethal
injection procedures, the latest in a
series of unprecedented capital pun-
ishment developments in Ohio.
Strickland ordered the reprieves
for condemned inmates Lawrence
Reynolds, scheduled to be exe-
cuted Thursday, and Darryl Durr,
scheduled to die next month, in
the midst of a legal battle over
Reynolds' execution.
Reynolds' execution was delayed
until March 9, Durr's until April 20.
Strickland said the Ohio corrections
department needed more time to
finish updating protocols for deal-
ing with long delays in finding suit-
able veins on inmates.
The surprise announce-
ment yesterday came as the U.S.
Supreme Court weighed whether
to allow Reynolds' execution, for
strangling his 67-year-old neigh-
bor in 1994, to proceed.
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan
Suicide attack kills
five at UN agency
A suicide bomber who killed five
staffers at the U.N. food agency's
headquarters in Pakistan yesterday
was dressed as a security officer and
allowed to enter the heavily guarded
building after he asked to use the
bathroom.
The United Nations announced it
was temporarily closing all its offices
inPakistanafterthenoontime bomb-
ing,whichblewoutwindows andleft
victims lying in pools of blood in the
lobby of the three-story World Food
Program compound.
"This is a heinous crime commit-
ted against those who have been
working tirelessly to assist the poor
and vulnerable on the front lines of

hunger and other human suffering
in Pakistan,"U.N. Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon said in Geneva.
Despite the office closures, the
U.N. said its Pakistani partner
organizations would continue
distributing food, medicine and
other humanitarian assistance.
The world body said it would
reassess the situation over the
next several days.
ALBERTVILLE, Ala.
Ala. woman lets

CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
take effect until at least April
2010.
"Cuts are here to stay for the
short term," Warren said. But she
added that it's important to take
additional steps now to ensure
that Michigan is in a stable,
healthy position when the federal
dollars of the economic stimulus
stop.
Ann Arbor Mayor John
Hieftje and City Council mem-
bers expressed appreciation for
the representative's appearance,
despite the dim news.
"They have their own prob-
lems (in Lansing) and some pret-
ty deep ones, but she's doing her
best," Hieftje said. "While this is
nothing new, it is nice to have an
update and it's nice to know she's
standing up for us in Lansing."
City Councilmember Carsten
Hohnke (D-Ward 5) echoed this
sentiment in an interview after
the meeting.
"We are going to see a pretty
dramatic cut and a significant hit
to our budget," he said. "But I was
pleased to know she worked hard
to push against that."
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS
SPEAK ABOUT
STATE STREET
TAILGATE PROTEST
Engineering junior Joey Juani-
co also spoke before City Council
last night about what has become
a controversial issue for the Uni-
versity student body: tailgating.
Multiple houses on State Street
were ticketed during Homecom-
ing Weekend - the weekend of
Sept. 26 - because of alleged
underage drinking, sitting on
roofs and noise complaints,
among other violations.
In an effort to protest the tick-
ets, Juanico is planning a demon-
stration that will take place Oct.
16.
"To destroy a culture and tradi-
tion in order to save a headache or
inconvenience is unacceptable,"
said Juanico in his address to the
council.
Juanico said the students par-
ticipating are willing to com-
RESIGNATION
From Page 1
fin's apology.
In an e-mail to College Republi-
cans, Bogren wished Chaffin luck
and thanked him for his leadership.
"Following several disagree-
ments with the Board both parties
felt that the pursuit of new leader-
ship would be in the best interest of
the club," he wrote in the e-mail.
Business sophomore Anthony
Dzik, events chair and author of the
impeachment hearing e-mail that
led Gordon to suspect he was get-
ting ousted at yesterday's meeting,
also accepted Chaffin's apology.
"I accept his apology, and I hope
he still remains in the College
Republicans - maybe just not as
our chair," Dziksaid.

promise with local police and
that they want the protesteto be
friendly.
"We are working to make it as
safe and effective as possible,"
Juanico said. He said the protes-
tors are collaborating with the
Department of Public Safety and
the Michigan Student Assembly
to plan the event.
Michigan Student Assembly
President Abhishek Mahanti also
spoke to assert MSA's support for
the cause.
"The Michigan Student
Assembly and myself are all ears
to working together and getting
to the bottom of this to figure out
how we as students can live our
lives, and how we can be safe,
responsible and moderate about
it," Mahanti said.
"Tailgating has been an asset to
this town's popularity, business,
as well as the mental wellbeing of
its residents," Juanico said.
So far, more than 5,000 people
have been informed of the event
through a Facebook group and
more than 1,200 are confirmed
to participate, according to
Juanico.
But the protest is not limited
to students. Juanico said local
businesses, alumni and musicians
have also taken interest in the
cause.
City Councilmember Stephen
Rapundalo (D-Ward 2) disagreed
with the students' claims. He said
the Ann Arbor Police Department
notified him of possible safety
problems.
"The police have identified a
very acute public safety issue in
thatspecific geographic location,"
Rapundalo said.
Rapundalo said the behav-
ior seemed quite worrisome. He
added that the city has no inten-
tion of banning tailgates, but that
rules and regulations need to be
enforced.
Hieftje agreed that restrictions
should be put in place, but also
said he understood the need for
compromise.
"The city is just workingwithin
its ordinances and within its own
guidelines on this," Hieftje said.
"And I think there are certainly
some agreements that can be
made and some common ground
to be found."
In an interview after the meet-
ing, LSA junior Kelly Mason, cam-
paigns chair of the group, said
Chaffin's expression of his views
created internal tension.
She added that Chaffin ran
unopposed for the position, caus-
ing some in the group to question
his ability.
"It is important for the chair to
represent the whole party's plat-
form," she said. "The club was
divided in where they wanted to
stand."
Mason said she was glad the
divide in the club was resolved in
a civil manner and added that she
believes the club is headed in "the
right direction now."
"It's kind of a shame because
of his hard work and dedication,
although misguided at times," she
said.

State budget still in flux

Less than four weeks
to agree to tax raises
or deep spending cuts
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - Michi-
gan lawmakers are scheduled to
return to work today with unfin-
ished business on the next state
budget, including decisions about
funding for schools.
State government is operating
under a temporary budget that
expires at the end of the month.
That gives lawmakers less than
four weeks to decide whether they
should agree to deep spending cuts.
or raise taxes and spend more fed-
eral stimulus money.
Indecision last week caused the
Michigan Legislature to miss its
annual budget-balancing deadline
for the second time in three years.
A continuation budget for state
departments was approved less
than two hours into a partial gov-
ernment shutdown.
But no budgetis inplace forK-12
schools. The Michigan Depart-
ment of Education said yesterday
that without a state budget it can't
send out federal funds to schools

for special education, meals and
programs for low-income dis-
tricts. The department said it pro-
cesses about $43 million in such
payments in a normal two-week
period.
"The Legislature needs to send
a school aid budget to the gover-
nor's desk - at a minimum, a con-
tinuation budget," said Liz Boyd, a
spokeswoman for Democratic Gov.
Jennifer Granholm.
Eight of 15 bills required to
enact a full budget for next fiscal
year have been sent to the gov-
ernor and are being reviewed.
Several others have passed the
Legislature but have not been sent
to Granholm.
Lawmakers are hanging onto
some of the bills, including one
that calls for an 11 percent cut in
revenue-sharing payments to local
governments, to prevent a possible
Granholm veto.
Michigan has a projected $2.8
billion budget deficit. More than
half of it will be eliminated with
federal stimulus cash.
The most recent school aid bud-
get legislation calls for a funding
cut equivalent to $218 per student,
too deep for many lawmakers to

accept.
Democrats who run the Michi-
gan House could begin votes as
early as today on raising taxes,
reducing tax exemptions or using
more federal stimulus money to fill
budget holes.
House Speaker Andy Dillon, a
Democrat from Wayne County's
Redford Township, has not speci-
fied which tax increase or revenue
options he will put up for votes.
Republican Senate Majority Lead-
er Mike Bishop of Rochester hasn't
promised any revenue increases
but has said he will review what-
ever the House passes.
Democrats could match rev-
enue proposals with specific
programs so taxpayers have a
better idea of where the extra
money is going. A 3 percent tax
on billings for doctors that some
lawmakers advocate, for exam-
ple, could raise more than $150
million to prevent deeper cuts in
reimbursement rates for Medic-
aid providers. Doctors who see
Medicaid patients would ben-
efit from higher reimbursement
rates, but doctors who treat few
or no Medicaid patients oppose
the tax.


CANDIDATE
From Page 1
Detroit. The diversity - cultural,
racial - it was like a melting pot, very
dimensional compared to Detroit."
But while he appreciated the
diversity of Ann Arbor and the Uni-
versity, Elhady began to focus on
other issues impacting the lives of
local citizens like the city's transit
system and landlord-tenant issues.
"I had issues like every other stu-
dent and resident," he said.
From there, he began consider-
ing other issues City Council hasn't
addressed.
Elhady went door to door in the
Fourth Ward asking residents about
significant concerns they felt coun-
cil members neglected. For the
most part, according to Elhady, they
voiced similar concerns.
"It started small and became big
to the point where I was like, I need
to run for City Council," he said.
Elhady said he's hoping to
encourage communication between
constituents and their City Council
representatives, adding that a lack

of communication "exacerbates all
other issues."
"I believe in communication, and
I've put that into action," he said.
After Elhady decided to run, he
began to call council members from
other wards for support.
"I picked up the phone, called
them and said, 'I'd like to run for
City Council and I want to know
your issues and help the city of Ann
Arbor. Let's make a meeting,"' he
said.
During one such call, Elhady
spoke to Mike Anglin, a Democrat
from the Fifth Ward.
Anglin said he was impressed
with Elhady's outreach efforts, and
knowledge of city-political dynam-
ics. He also appreciated Elhady's
youth.
"I think it's important to have
a multi-generational approach to
governance," Anglin said. "Hatim
would bring a focus to City Council
that's not there now."
To help with his bid, Elhady has
reached out to student voters during
his campaign. Although he is not
allowed to campaign door-to-door
in residence halls, University Hous-

ing recently approved his stuffing of
mailboxes.
In addition, Elhady encouraged
students to vote through the Michi-
gan Student Assembly's Voice Your
Vote campaign.
Although Elhady values student
support, he emphasized that he
won't serve as "U of M's man on City
Council."
"My campaign is not built around
students, nor is it built around per-
manent residents," he said. "It's
built around everyone in the Fourth
Ward. We all have issues and
deserve a voice."
If elected, Elhady plans to hold
weekly office hours. These hours
would not have him confined to an
office - instead he would use the
time to speak at neighborhood orga-
nizations and visit Fourth Ward
residents. Despite his relative inex-
perience, Elhady is optimistic about
his chances.
"It all depends on how hard I
work,"he said. "WhenIgo personal-
ly door to door, do mailbox stuffings,
when I go to each one of my friends
and get them registered to vote, I
think the outcome will be good."


FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@MICH IGAN DAILY
- I I
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
CoronaSollNodella/Pacifico Specials All Night
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25%Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
 Ma *aWG =rea ToMAm a
310 Maynard St. - Ta Go Orders 734.995.0100 -Nexl to lbs Maynard Parkina Structure

US, there is

daughter ride in
box on top of van
An Alabama woman has been
charged with endangering the
welfare of a child after police
say she let her daughter ride in a 3 7
cardboard box on top of their van.
Albertville Police spokesman Sgt. 5 7 9 
Jamie Smith said the 37-year-old
woman was arrested Sunday after
police received a call about a mini- 3
van on a state highway with a child
riding on top. 4 6 3
Smith said the woman told
police the box was too big to go 8
inside the van, and that her daugh-85
ter was inside the box to hold it
down. 7 4
Smith said the mother told offi-
cers it was safe because she had 9 7 1
thebox secured to the van with a
. clothes hanger. 2 95 1
The 13-year-old daughter wasn't
harmed and was turned over to
a relative. A jail worker said the 5 2 8
mother was out on bond yester-
day.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


4

4 - Tuesday, October 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
r, '' , r Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Laggieng on LEED
Coleman must back up call for sustainability with action
greener University may be on the way, according to Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman's speech yesterday. In her annual
State of the University address, she focused on plans to
double research spending and increase environmental sustainabil-
ity at the University. And while she's right to make these two issues
priorities of the University, it's important that her words translate
to action, especially concerning sustainability. The University has
lagged behind others in creating a more environmentally friendly
campus and Coleman should erase past failings by truly revamp-
ing University buildings and energy practices.

ELAINE MORTON I

4

 I .4.I - - - - - I

t5ac inmuy} eh +fwies rihane
ynos ortlB he TV.

l~kin ay lyr ~id
Q~tA ll~l~t'56or' iclriswes
f
11O

t % a lk

Nothing is free

4

There's no easier punching bag
for people on all parts of the
political spectrum than a
person who even
subtly implies that
freedom of speech
is not absolute. And
yet, here I go.
During last
week's debate over
reggae artist Buju
Banton's appear-
ance in Ann Arbor,
some people were IMRAN
outraged by the SYED
message this appar-
ently homophobic
musician furthers
with every performance. Some sim-
ply decried the Blind Pig for allowing
him to perform, while others thought
it their right to prevent him from per-
forming.
The latter group drew criticism
of its own. While it's okay to protest
hateful speech, the critics argued,
it's never okay to try to silence fringe
viewpoints. This isn't a new argument
- the battle for free speech is about
protecting fringe viewpoints, because
those are the ones that can't protect
themselves.
While I understand that argument,
I wonder why that's the rule.
Liberals like to argue that the Con-
stitution is an abstract concept, not
simply a laundry list of rights. They
reject absolute, concrete readings of
most parts of the document because
they believe such nearsightedness
detracts from the Constitution's larg-
er purpose - to create a free, progres-
sive, prosperous society.
There is no more prominent exam-
ple of this than the Second Amend-
ment. Liberals laugh at the right's
literal reading of the right to bear
arms. They contend that the Second
Amendment was a proxy to counter
the tyranny America was emerging
from. It wasn't meant to imply that

every citizen may own a gun, but sim-
ply affirmed that the nation's military
would serve the will of the people and
not the whims of a solitary despot.
I happen to buy that argument. I
think it makes sense that the framers
intended the Second Amendment to
counter the evils they suffered under
their former British overlords.
But what if the First Amendment
is also a proxy - not meant to be
read literally, but rather meant as a
check against the tyrannical ways
that speech had been suppressed in
the colonies? Could it be that the free
speech part of the First Amendment
never stood for "anyone can say any-
thing at any time," but rather, simply
meant the government cannot sup-
press individual ideas for the further-
ance of its official stance? I buy that
argument, too.
One of the most famous articula-
tionsregardingthe boundaries offree-
dom of speech was made by Justice
Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. in the 1919
Supreme Court case Schenck v. United
States. Holmes wrote that imminently
dangerous speech that serves no pur-
pose, like falsely yelling "fire" in a
crowded theater, isn't protected under
the First Amendment.
Most ofus can agree with the result,
but I contend that the line Holmes
drewwas rather arbitrary. Some liber-
tarians have contested that even yell-
ing "fire" in a crowded theater could
be a protected right. If it causes prob-
lems, the theater owner has a claim
against the shouter, but that doesn't
take away the shouter's initial right to
shout "fire" whenever and wherever
he pleases.
Like my libertarian friends, I
believe that to draw a boundary line
anywhere in the realm of free speech
is to question all speech. But unlike
them, I don't see this as a problem.
Yes, speech can be limited. Rather
than hiding behind the First Amend-
ment, individual speakers must pro-

tect their ideas with veracity, logic
and persuasion.
Freedom of speech was designed as
a proxy for creating a society in which
constructive ideas freely flourish and
can be used as a base for progress and
solutions. It wasn't meant to sustain
idiocy and hatred, and yet too often,
we Americans proudly say that it was.
By elongating the First Amendment to
protect obscene hate speech, we harm
our freedom and prosperity. That
undermines the actual larger purpose
of the Constitution.
Even the First
Amendment has
its limits.
Some will say that what I argue is
dangerous because once speech is lim-
ited, even legitimate minority argu-
ments will be suppressed. That would 4
be true, but only if we take the lazy,
passive approach to rights that we've
gotten used to taking under the status
quo.
Technology has brought us to
the point at which free knowledge
exchange can't be seriously threat-
ened - at least not so long as the
abstract reading of the First Amend-
ment as a check against totalitarian-
ism remains in force. When speech is
no longer protected simply because it
is speech, we won't all magically be
deemed mute. Instead, we will begin
to actively assess the merits of what
we're saying and what is being said in
the million conversations that make
up our nation.
But even that may be a frightening
noionyto some.
- Imran Syed can be reached
at galad@umich.edu.

President Coleman's speech recounted
a number of developments at the Univer-
sity, including its success in reaching total
research funding of more than $1 billion
for the first time in the University's his-
tory. Coleman expects this figure to double
by 2017, which would surpass the nation's
current leader, John Hopkins University,
at $1.55 billion annually. She also spent
significant time announcing the creation
of several new positions and committees
designed to make the University more sus-
tainable. These included the Sustainability
Executive Council, which will monitor sus-
tainability at the University, and the Office
of Campus Sustainability, which will coor-
dinate sustainability programs on campus.
Focusing on sustainability is certainly
appropriate, given the critical importance
of environmental preservation issues.
Wide-scale environmental challenges
like global warming, biodiversity loss and
increasing scarcity in resources like fresh
water are now well-documented and pose
very real threats to animals and humans
alike. Experts andthe-public are-increas--
ingly forced to acknowledge that the
planet's growing population of consumers
can only be sustained through two routes:
more environmentally friendly practices
or serious and permanent damage to the
environment, at home and abroad.
With such high stakes, it's disappoint-
ing, if not surprising, that administrators
have allowed the University to fall behind
the curve on sustainability. Coleman deliv-
ered her speech at the newly constructed
Ross School of Business, which features
environmentally friendly construction

and achieved silver LEED (Leadership in
Environmental and Energy Design) certi-
fication. But this building came in behind
Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy's new business school and Stanford's
planned business school, which are both
expected to receive higher LEED certifica-
tions. And the University's new B-School
was only the second building on campus
to receive LEED certification. The other
building, the School of Natural Resource's
Dana Building, only features a suitably
green design because students approached
administrators and urged them to modify
their plans and pursue LEED certification.
Making matters worse, Coleman told the
Daily in an interview after her speech that
she isn't going to sign the American Col-
lege and University Presidents' Climate
Commitment. The commitment, which
aims to combat greenhouse gas emissions
and curb global warming, has already been
signed by 654 university presidents. Cole-
man claims that the environmental stan-
dards called for by the commitment are
-mrealistic, -butsettingdifficultgoa-lsisone
of the best ways to ensure that progress on
environmental issues is made. Coleman's
inaction here calls into question how seri-
ous her commitment to a sustainable Uni-
versity really is.
Administrators must make sure that
Coleman's comments on sustainability
amount to more than just lip service. Form-
ing committees is just a start - adminis-
trators must actively look for ways to make
buildings more environmentally friendly.
And they should listen to students ideas on
the subject, too.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Leiters are edited for style, length,
clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
SUNIA ARIF
Combating racism in schools

4

4


Right to free speech doesn't
justify homophobia and hate

ND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
booked not only Buju in the past, but other acts
even more controversial for their homophobic
lyrics. I wonder exactly how this excuses their
endorsement this time of an artist known for his
homophobic lyrics. In any case, Berry seemed to

TO THE DAILY: be implicitly aski
I was involved in the protest of the Buju Ban- testing at those e
ton concert at the Blind Pig on Sept. 30, and answer to that qu
after following the media coverage of the event ting tired of deal
over the last few days, there are a few things I haps we are justb
would like to clarify.
First, this protest was not a part of a "gay Matthew Leslie
agenda." This protest was about equality on a School of Music,I
variety of levels. Banton has called for violent
action against an underrepresented and under- M ayor
privileged community. To me, it doesn't mat- Hl
ter what the unifying factor of this community i
happens to be, but rather that there is someone side again
seeking to harm members of that community.
Furthermore, there were not only matters TO THE DAILY:
of homophobia present here but also problems In responset
of ethnic prejudice. Jason Berry, the booking Mayor John Hie
manager for the Blind Pig, said in his statement to censor speech
to protesters that Banton's viewpoints were gusted the Daily
just a manifestation of Caribbean culture and protest, 10/01/20(
that our protest was merely an example of two Hieftje camec
cultures butting heads. As a queer person of defending the L
Caribbean descent, I take great offense to this. help broker a dea
It is a lie that Caribbean culture is homoge- that we could pu
neously homophobic. I submit that if the Blind along. He addres
Pig wanted to cater to the small but important if it was up to him
Caribbean community inAnn Arbor, they could been performing
have done so by booking a Caribbean artist who free speech. He
doesn't advocate hate and violence - of which of Ann Arbor sho
there are many. Furthermore, the protest and allowing Buju Ba:
the protesters have no problems with the Carib- The mayor ho
bean community in Ann Arbor, but rather the attention to the f
ignorance at the Blind Pig that allowed this mances are not*
concert to happen. I sent Mayor H
Second, I want to address the topic of "free because as a me
speech," which seems to be repeatedly coming nity, it meant a g
up both in the media and in my personal conver- ported us. If The]
sations about the event. In no way was the pro- KKK member an
test infringing upon Banton's free speech, nor it, would the Dai
did the protest even have anything to do with trying to censor
free speech. While the freedom of speech as it is everyone does no
interpreted in this country does allow people to As recently as
voice their opinions openly, it does not guaran- his music to advt
tee them to be booked for a concert at the Blind people. I'm glad
Pig, which is precisely what we were protesting. speak out again
Banton has every right to speak homophobia the venues that h
and hatred in his own life. We just ask that Ann those who advoc:
Arbor establishments not promote this kind of of anyone to be a
entertainment. test. Sure, they ca
I would like to conclude by focusing on anoth- our rights to prot
er comment made by Berry. In speaking with us,
he expressed surprise at the fact that we were Mitchell Meyle
protesting this concert, since the Blind Pig had Alum

ing why we had not been pro-
vents, as well. I don't know the
uestion, but maybe we are get-
ing with homophobia. Or per-
beginning to find our voice.
-Santana
Theatre & Dance senior
ieftje was right to
st offensive lyrics
to the editorial saying that
ftje shouldn't use his power
, I must say that I'm quite dis-
would say that (A pig and a
09).
out in support of our protest
GBTQ community, trying to
l with The Blind Pig in hopes
ut this behind us and just get
sed the crowd and told us that
, this performer wouldn't have
tonight, but he didn't censor
acted as any admirable citizen
uld when he spoke out against
nton to perform.
ped that he could help bring
act that these kinds of perfor-
what Ann Arbor is all about.
ieftje a personal thank you,
mber of the LGBTQ commu-
reat deal to know that he sup-
Blind Pig had booked a Nazi or
d the mayor spoke out against
ily really accuse the mayor of
free speech? It's just sad how
t see these parallels.
2006, Buju Banton has used
ocate violence against LGBTQ
I my mayor feels he needs to
nst performers like this and
host them. We simply can't let
ate for the murder and torture
llowed to speak without pro-
an speak, but we are all within
test them at every word.

For years, racism has been presented to me as an
obsolete issue. As an elementary school student, I recall
learning about the Holocaust, the key players in the civil
rights movements and the Japanese-Americans during
the internment era. I read narratives of Anne Frank and
Frederick Douglass, but my attempt to actually recognize
the contemporary incidents related to these persecutions
frequently failed. These incidents were handled with a
hands-off, historical approach, separate from present-
day people and issues. Because of this, it's easy to believe
that racism is an ideology of the past. In order for youth to
gain a more modern understanding of racism, the concept
of racism needs to be presented in a more contemporary
fashion through candid dialogue.
Unfortunately, racism isn't only an ideology of the
past. It still remains a very relevant problem today - even
locally. As reported by the Daily, a 16-year-old Muslim
girl was attacked on a school bus in Ann Arbor less than a
month ago (Muslim teen reportedly attacked in Ann Arbor,
09/19/2009). The assailants, the girl's peers, reportedly
chanted, "Fuck Arabs, they are dirty," while pulling off
her Islamic headscarf. The girl required six stitches to
her face as a result of the injuries.
When I first heard about this incident, I was shocked
that it could have happened - especially in an area like
Ann Arbor, which is celebrated for a liberal and diverse
culture. How could anyone commit such a hateful crime?
But then again, are these young assailants really at fault?
These students, like me, have been introduced to the con-
cept of racism as if it has ceased to exist.
But racism does exist, and kids are aware of it. For
many families and teachers of children, a call for more
dialogue regarding racial issues can be challenging to
employ. Those who find the idea difficult argue that the
more we identify and discuss racial differences, the more
apparent race becomes to children. Contrary to this argu-
ment, according to a study published in Newsweek on
Sept. 5, children naturally categorize almost everything
according obvious visual factors like race. In the study,
University of Colorado professor Phyllis Katz asked a
group of 3-year-old children to choose friends out of a pile
of photographs. Of the Caucasian children, 86 percent
chose friends of their own race. Two years later, Katz met

with the same children and asked them to split a pile of
pictures using any method they preferred. This time, 68
percent of the children used race to categorize the piles.
Studies similar to Katz's reveal that race is a visible
characteristic to children, discernable at a young age.
Assuming that this theory is valid, discussion about cur-
rent racial issues in schools will not hinder a child's abil-
ity to see each other as equals because children already
inherently recognize differences in color. Children learn
most from experience and discussion, so an earnest con-
versation on race will only build a better foundation for
students to understand racism.
Experience and discussion is also what led me to a
deeper comprehension of racism. As a Muslim-American,
the time following Sept. 11 was a period in which my peers
questioned my faith and neglected to understand Muslims
beyond what the media reported. Initially, I was upset
by these remarks. But then participated in multicultural
and dialogue groups that raised awareness of Islam and
encouraged conversation around racial issues. Because of
my exposure to such programs, I was able to make better
sense of what racial problems face the world today and
help others avoid being racist.
When I looked into the story of the Muslim girl who
was attacked in Ann Arbor, I couldn't help but wonder if
this crime could have been avoided if the assailants had
been offered a type of racial dialogue similar to the one
I had after Sept. 1L The assailants were African Ameri-
can, and could have been victims of racism themselves.
But through their experience and education, they may not
have been given the opportunity for dialogue to deal with
racial issues and diffuse racial resentment. Had they been
given the chance to talk about race, they may have seen
racism as more than a fact of life.
Talking about prevalent matters of racism, rather than
simply learning about the past, is the most important step
for understanding racism and subsequently combating it.
Until we recognize the fact that these issues are still alive,
we will continue to fail students in their comprehension
of race and racism. Once schools draw the bridge between
past and prese.
Sunia Arif is an Business sophomore.


4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke,
Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 5

Unconscionable genius

couple weeks ago in my
Shakespeare and Film
class, we had Screen Arts
& Cultures Prof.
Jim Burnstein
guest lecture on
Roman Polan-
ski's adaptation Y
of "Macbeth"
(1971). Even a
though it's one
of Polanski's ANDREW
lesser known LAPN
works, Burn-
stein praised the film until we
were all convinced of its greatness.
A key visual motif of the movie
is the recurring image of a hang-
man's noose - the circular instru-
ment of death that ensnares the
doomed Macbeth's fate from the
very start and only tightens the
more he sinks into the conse-
quences of his own deplorable acts.
If only Polanski could have
followed the noose of his own
life as easily as he had followed
Macbeth's. Last Saturday, only a
few days after my class, the famed
director was arrested in Switzer-
land for his rape of a13-year old
girl in Los Angeles. Polanski com-
mitted the crime in 1977, and after
his media frenzy of a trial resulted
in his conviction, he fled to Europe
before he could be sentenced. And
now, even though he has tried all
his life to escape it, his deplorable
act is once again at the center of the
public eye.
Polanski, who has also helmed
"Chinatown," "Rosemary's Baby"
and "The Pianist," was arrested
just before he was supposed to
receivea lifetime achievement
award for his filmmaking. ouch.
Many bloggers and other talking
heads are now calling for Polans-
ki's head, sayingthat he never fully
received due punishment for his
crime. And there are others, most-
ly in the filmmaking industry, who
are on Polanski's side, arguing that
it has been too longsince the deed
and that his artistic contributions
to society are too valuable for him
to be locked away. They've even
signed "Free Polanski" petitions.
The whole legal debacle is

ridiculot
have eve
into a m
time you
clarifica
out the r
unbiasec
Polanski
which dE
nal trial
attentio
cared lit
defenda
victim h
publicly
And y
mation o
witnesse
edy than
Hollywo
survivor
in a gasc
wife Sha
murdere
"Macbet
on thee'
humanit
No:
fo
directed
Does]
his act?(
shed som
nature o
lutely. H
deviant;
pushedd
because
he has e)
ness is p
to make
paved th
crime; as
would sa
fair."
Let's i
celebriti
with tern
since Pol
think ab
"J"), and
tion of he
artistic i
themsel

usly confusing, and it may films have enormous value, wheth-
n been resolved (or sunk er as heady psychological trips or
uch deeper mess) by the as deep emotional experiences. I
iread this. If you want was enthralled by "Chinatown"
tion, it would help to seek and almost moved to tears by "The
evealing (but not entirely Pianist." But when you weigh their
d) documentary "Roman value against the harm that their
: Wanted and Desired," maker caused to just this one girl,
etails how Polanski's origi- suddenly things become less clear.
was complicated by an Hell, the first film Polanski
n-mongering judge who made in France after escaping his
tle for the victim or the trial was "Tess" (1979), an adapta-
nt. It also shows how the tion of Thomas Hardy's "Tess of
erself, Samantha Geimer, the d'Urbervilles," a novel about
forgave Polanski in 1997. a young girl who has shunned by
ou can also find infor- her family after being raped and
)n how Polanski has impregnated by an older man.
d firsthand more trag- He also reportedly had an affair
perhaps anyone else in with the lead actress, Nastassja
'od. He is a Holocaust Kinski, that began when she was
r whose mother was killed 15 (perfectly legal in France). Call
chamber. And in 1969, his it deplorable if you want, butthe
iron Tate was brutally movie won three Oscars and gar-
d by the Manson family. nered plenty of critical praise.
:h," with its ruminations "No one does it to you like
vil that pervades all of Roman Polanski," intones the
:y, was the first film he deep, booming narrator of a '70s-
era trailer for one of his films. No
kidding.
more awards The scandal has almost com-
pletely whitewashed Polanski's
r Polanski. filmmaking career. His artistic
talent will always be linked with
his crime. The man is 76 years old
following the murder. now, with another wife and two
Polanski's past excuse children in France, and if some
Certainly not. Does it people in the judicial system have
ne essential light onto the their way, he could go to prison for
f his character? Abso- the rest of his life.
e's a disturbed, sexually It probably won't happen,
person who was probably because Polanski is still a figure
down these dark pathways with lots of clout, and people
of the personal tragedies like him tend not to serve life
xperienced. This dark- sentences. But if it does happen,
robably what allows him perhaps it's time for him to accept
such great art, but it also this final fate. The man is almost
e way for his horrible at the end of his rope. He's already
s the witches in "Macbeth" had the luxury of decades to make
y, "Fair is foul and foul is his mark in the filmmaking world;
if he doesn't give in now, he will be
gnore for now the other hounded and haunted for the rest
es who've gotten away of his life anyway.
rible crimes in the years Polanski's noose is tightening,
lanski's exile (try not to and just like Macbeth, he must fol-
out the letters "O" and low it to the end.

The aftermath of the U.S. version of 'The Office.'

Inventive humor

Ricky Gervais
proves himself in a
new divine comedy
By SHERI JANKELOVITZ
Daily Arts Writer
If there's one thing "The Inven-


tion of Lying"
proves, it's that
Ricky Gervais
has almost per-
fedt comedic
timing. There's
no reason he
shouldn't join
the esteemed
rank of bril-
liance already

The Invention
of Lying
At Quality16
and Showcase
Warner Bros.

kids with snub noses."
As the title suggests, Mark soon
discovers he is capable of speaking
falsehoods, and people will actu-
ally believe him. In a world where
people believe anything anyone
says (after all, why wouldn't they?),
Mark can essentially get away with
whatever he wants. At first he uses
this powerselfishly: getting money,
taking revenge on his friends at
work and the like. But soon, Mark
starts to use this ability to help oth-
ers - like when he tells his dying
mother that after death she will
live in an eternally blissful state in
which "everyone gets mansions."
Mark has just invented heaven.
Mark's words on the after-
life touch a chord in everyone,
and soon followers are gathered
outside of his apartment to hear
what else Mark has to say about
what happens after you die and
"the man in the sky." There are
shades of "Monty Python's Life of
Brian" here, and the film's funni-
est moments arise from a scene in
which Mark spends hours fielding
questions from the crowd about
the exact details of the afterlife and
how to get a mansion. For example:
There is no hairstyle that will keep
you out of heaven.
At this point, the movie takes a
turn from lighthearted comedy to
theological commentary. The film
makes some not-so-subtle jabs

at religion, portraying Mark as a
Jesus-type misleading the naive
masses into believing they need to
do good in order to live in a man-
sion and eat ice cream all the time
after they die. Shortly thereafter
Mark is being hailed as a prophet
- and making millions of dollars
off of it.
So, is the film saying religion is
a lie? Well, it does offer a different
view of the way many approach
religion, which is sure to be a
tough pill to swallow. But the light-
hearted tone of the film makes it
hard to judge whether it actually
wants to be taken seriously. Some
could argue that the joke is clearly
on religion - a fact the previews
try to hide. It is reminiscent of
Kevin Smith's work in "Dogma,"
which had many up in arms over
its casual abuse of religious ideas.
Here, though, it appears that Ger-
vais wishes us to laugh, rather than
to think too deeply into what he is
saying, and therefore, the joke may
be on us if we take it as gospel.
Regardless, for a comedy to
work even with such a heavy mes-
sage is impressive. Gervais has
a way of making the audience
laugh by presenting himself as the
everyman who just happens to get
the girl. He charms us completely,
we feel for him and we laugh with
him, too - even if we don't always
agree with him.

just consider the ques-
ow valuable the director's
nput is to our society. By
ves, most of Polanski's

Lapin is about to shout "Macbeth"
in a crowded movie theater. Stop
him at alapin@umich.edu.

i a , , '

occupied by Jim Carrey and
Steve Carell (who's only playing
an American version of Gervais's
original character on "The Office,"
anyway). Atthe very leasthe should
host an awards show or two.
In "Invention," Gervais plays
Mark Bellison, a portly loser with
no financial or romantic pros-
pects to speak of. Bellison lives in
a world where no one has ever lied.
Accordingly, people continually
tell him to his face just how worth-
less he is. This includes his crush
(Jennifer Garner, "Juno"), who
clearly likes him but can't stand to
be with a man who will father "fat
HAVE YOU OR
SOMEONE YOU
KNOW BEEN
INJURED BYA
BAD REVIEW?
JOIN US AND
GET THE
DAILY ARTS
ADVANTAGE.
E-mail us at
battlebots@umich.edu to
get an application and the
r compensation you deserve.

HV Fact:
Your boyfri-end
tthe virus
that causes
r,0 ;I..; I W a r rS

University of Michigan's
Largest "ar H
Selection of REALTY
Units Aoailable for Immediate Occupancy
1 Off Campus Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to14 bedrooms
Ho sig f6itChurch St. 17341 995-9200
Housing=
wUlK',,toU


There's something y<
Visit your c



0

6-Tuesday, October 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

0

3
i ZSilk *10, s. f1. M4
REALTY

COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 5 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprp.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner.
734-429-2850 or bcrider@umich.ed
for rent
C"60
!CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
" BEAUTIFUL HOMES !
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW forAug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
!!!! 4 LG. Bdrm. house. 5 person.
Mary Ct. at IM bldg. Ldry., prkg. May-
May $2150. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsnprperties.com
734-332-6000.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Let's
make a deal. Avail. Fall '09. On
Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free offstreet
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010: Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.
5 & 6 BEDROOMS
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwod foring, ceramic
ath, full hasement w/ laundry atd attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.

Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
'Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
nex5SmP; zza /uae
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
2 BEDROOMS AVAILABLE near
North Campus. Looking for female(s)
to rent either one of both bedrooms.
Furnished 9r2 unfurmished. Must like
pets. 313-980-2271
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com

Post Realty
properties
Now Leasing
for May 2010:
Large 2 Bedroom Apts!
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperlies.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate srage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Ca. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL2010
Small family owned company.
www.keysmanagetment.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Latupus Managemaent, Inc. invites you
in visit www.CatpusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furtished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showming with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.

RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
availahle. Call 734-995-9200 or step
into 616 Church Street. More infsoat
wwwarchrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.

ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
smart@brainfuse.com
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Teleftnd. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
$300-$500. Get on the ground floor...
Act Now! http://www.psiOl.info
OCCASIONAL HORSE BARN help
wanted. Experience pref. 995-0092.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Abor.734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE toajoin. Click an Surveys.

tiCkets & travel
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
tnformation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS to
help save and protect history and open
spaces on Mackinac Island. Needed
also active involvement of professors
and departments, to help to save areas
on the state park island, which has a
unique history and importance, nation-
ally, but especially, because it is owned
by us, to Michigan. 1-866-MAC-ISLE

AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu- cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices, free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
Studio & 1 full size washer & dryer, on site
T d Uni parking. For more information call
drm. Unis Laura at Church Street Apartments,
T CLLC. 734-994-0644.
Qu ~e " :d31k'mrn BASEMENT BDRM & Bath avail-
able. Free prkg, lndry, cable, util, heat.
734-663-1530 Quiet, near campus, non smoking.
$450/mo. 1013 Rose Ave. Call CK
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term Eaton at 734-663-8925.
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story ontLang-
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State- aeU Half a tulle on e
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286. School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Wshr/dryer in unit, $950/mo.,
AVAILABLE NOW 1 bdrm. on S. water included. Call 734-395-5288.
Forest near South U. 734-996-2836. Pfkiani agmail.com
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
Done the Management
17341 u6a too
S Now taking reservations
#rosr lll f


17

7
2

for tail 2u *!
Studios, 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 bdrms & Houses
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at ilt S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fail '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng&comcastnet

9
5

4
1

2
7

I I

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 71 Ed of "Lou Grant" 40 Las Vegas Strip 50 List of mistakes
1 Washing machine feature 54 Seriously humid
sequence DOWN 41 Marked, as a 56 Old lab burners
6 Pirate's booty 1 Network with an ballot 58 Final grade
10 Twilight time eye 45 Sample factor
14 Start of an old 2 Slangypassent 46 Sinuous ski 59 Polio vaccine
Army slogan 3 Parking lot siren race developer
15 Rock group's trip 4 Andean beast 47 Tart, as a citrus 60 War journalist
16 in the past 5 Matador's foe drink Ernie
17 Jack of rhyme 6 Men-only party 48 Mescal sources 64 Election Day:
18 Against 7 Refuses to 49 Aerobic exercise, Abbr.
19 Persia, now 8 Writer in gym-speak 65 Mo. for fools?
20 2005 Margaret 9 Reaction to
Peterson Haddix personal loss ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
children's thriller 10" What Comes
23 1958 #1 hit sung Natur'lly" G E M S C H A R S H A D
in Italian 11 Pre-riot state O N EA W H I T E P A I N
25 In error 12 Garlicky shrimp s o R T H I N E S E Z R A
26 Hot tub dish s U G A R A N D S P I C E
27 Lyricis Gershwin 13 Nairohi natve G T T TOR L A P
28 Title hlder 21 Ms recent D TIFF NARKfA
31 Classic language, 22 Key above D
and witht61- 23 Byway of SAFE A N D S O U N D
Across, hint to 24 SeaWorld E D G E E R C A T T S
the puzzle theme attraction U P A N 0 1 A L A D
found at the 29 Teachers'org. A 8 E T H A I T E M A R C
starts of 20-, 37- 30Fairylike UMS S R A N O I D E A
and 57-Across 32 Lie alongside S H O R T A N D S W E E T
33 Property 34 Bring in KIWI A W G E E I S L E
measure 38 Caprs Blue H E T A T E R S T I R
35 Mutes', e.g. 38 Transition toutheI I
36 Yak next subject N E O S E R S T HEN S
37 Accumulate 39 Ear: Prefix xwordeditor@aol.com 10/05/09
wealth 1 2 3 4 S 6 7 a 10 11 12 13
42 On SocSec.,
say 14 15 16
43 Simpson judge
44 Schoolbook 7
46 "Beak"for "nose," 20 21 2
e.g.
49 100 bucks 23 24 25 26
51 the
ramparts ." 27 28 29 30 31 32
52 Trip segment 33 34 35 3s
53 Thurman of Kill
Bill" 37 38 39 84 41
55 Fashionable
5/Nnd9muerained$ ay -

LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful I ard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.arelirealtyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. ittp://www.campusrealty.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
rhouse near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
9 garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.
c66l5 300Ut W Jot
C0. aranoid?0

STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
step y 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WANTED GRAD STUDENT/ profes-
sor. New 1 bdrm. Chelsea apt. $625.
Util, elec., cable, DSL. Country hse on
100 acre nature preserve. 734-475-0291.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.
services i
080
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writen elserv.net
help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
CALCULUS TUTOR $15/HOUR
734.763.5463.
AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
7 6 4 -111111111
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

For Wednesday, Oct. 7, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Your critical faculties are very sharp
today. You can accomplish a lot at work
if youjust focus on getting thejob done.
Choose routine work that requires atten-
tion to detail.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Creative jobs that require focus and
concentration will go well today. (It's a
good day to teach children.) This is not a
lighthearted day; it's a serious day to
work at getting things done.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Family discussions will be practical
and concem the long-term future today.
This is an excellent day to begin house
repairs or to fix whatever is broken at
home.
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
Don't get hung up on worries today.
Insteqd, use the day's energy to do rou-
tine work that requires concentration and
perseverance. You can do this!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You feel very serious about your
financial scene today. Because of this,
you will enjoy paying bills and getting
your finances in order. Stay in touch
with your bank account.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You feel a bit cautious today. You
don't want to take risks. Communication
with others is a bit stilted. However, you
still can get a lot done by taking care of
details.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is awonderful day for research of
any kind. You have the perseverance and
determination to go after whatever

you're looking for. Just do it.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23to Nov. 21)
Ask someone older or more experi-
enced than you for his or her advice
today. Don't be discouraged by whatthis
person says. Just learn from him or her.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Discussions with bosses, parents and
VIPs might be discouraging today.
Others could criticize you or create
obstacles. Don't worry; this is a test.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
This is an.excellent day for studying
anything or for learning something new,
especially if it requires attention to
detail. Today, you have "mouse mind"
not "eagle mind"!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Roll up your sleeves and tackle some
red-tape details about insurance matters,
inheritances, wills, taxes and debt.
You'll be surprised by how much you get
done!
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Conversations with partners and close
friends are detached and stiff today.
Don't worry about this. Focus on practi-
cal matters and how to get things done.
YOU BORN TODAY You have strong
ideals, and you're committed to your
goals; however, you can be rebellious in
your path to achieving them! You
believe in yourself and your opinions.
People find you charming and seductive.
Your life is often dramatic! This year, an
entirely new cycle will begin for you.
Have the courage tostep up tothe plate.
Be ready to open any door!
Birthdate of Shawn Ashmore, actor;
Toni Braxton, singer; Simon Cowell,
music celebrity.

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

57 Non-remunerative 4z 4 4 4
athletics u6 at 28 43 4 s50
61 Cherish
62 Aussie greeting 2 63 sa 55 5
63 Singer Baker
88 Till ills 57 56 59 60
67 Fish organ
68 Prepare to 6t62 63 6 65
advance after a 66 6 7y6
fly ball
89 Computer 69 70 7
adventure game
70 Oxen connection us MikePeluso10
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc,

read the michigan
daily horoscope

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day priorfto publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for themfirst issue and $1.75 per line for each additional
consecive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts areeavailable- contact ourstaffrfor details
" Studentsmnay receivea 20% discountwhen ads are placed in personwith a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business adsonly)
" All ads mustbe prepaid unlessprior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, orcheck
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one of our Account Executives

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 7


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 7

SERIES
From Page 1
said. "It's because when we go out
in the world we get preoccupied
with the needs of our families,
our other communities, our other
things, things that are important to
us like our hospital, our church or
whatever."
But that steady stream of dona-
tions from such a wide swath
of people can have a significant
impact on campus life in the pro-
grams and scholarships that such
gifts help fund.
To aid academic units and Uni-
versity programs in soliciting and
tracking donations, the Universi-
ty's Office of Development divides
people based on what types of gifts
theyaregiving,thoughsome donors
may fall into multiple categories -
a major part of which is those who
partake in what the office refers to
as "annual giving."
ANNUAL GIVING: A
PIPELINE OF SUPPORT
A major contributor to this
steady stream of individual dona-
tions is the practice of what the
Development Office calls "annual
giving."
Because so many people fall into
this category, the University's devel-
opment office has a special team of
people who work to meet the needs
of donors who give annually.
Elizabeth Woods, senior asso-
ciate director of marketing and
research for annual giving, said the
University's annual giving opera-
tions are essential to raising money
and engaging the majority of Uni-
versity alumni and friends.
"We have the buildings, and
we have the plaques and the won-
derful things like that, that are so
important to what the University
is," Woods said. "But annual giving
provides the pipeline to that and
serves as probably the largest rela-
tionship that our alumni will have
with the University."
Though specific definitions for
annual giving vary among the aca-
demic and non-academic units on
campus, Woods said annual giving
is defined by the office of Devel-
opment as gifts of $25,000 or less
made on a yearly basis.
Using that definition, Woods
said'the annual giving unit at the
University raised $41.9 million
last year, of which $27.7 million -
appr >mately 66 pe - came
from alumni. Of the money col-
lected from annual giving, alumni
contributed $18 million to academ-
ic units, whereas non-alumni gave
$5.5 million to academics.
Though it may seem contradic-
tory to the overall giving pattern of
donors to the University in which
non-alumni donors outnumber
alumni, Woods said that annual
giving focuses on alumni and that
numbers vary from year to year.
The money raised from annual
giving is used for a variety of pro-
grams and expenses at the Uni-
versity, including student financial
aid, conferences and workshops
and fellowships. A steady stream
of support from private donors is
COLEMAN
From Page 1
existing groups on campus - like

Planet Blue and Climate Savers.
In an interview after her speech,
Coleman said that though the sus-
 tainability initiative will help the
University become more environ-
mentally focused, she has no plans
to sign the American College and
University Presidents' Climate
Commitment.
The agreement, which has been
signed by the University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, The Universi-
ty of Illinois and Ohio State Univer-
sity, as well as many other colleges,
is a commitment by the signatories
to reduce green house gases and
develop a "comprehensive plan" to
achieve climate neutrality.
"We are absolutely committed
to doing something positive about
climate change, but I do not believe
the approach that they suggest is
realistic," Coleman said. "I've never
agreed with it, and I don'tthinkour
experts here have agreed with it. I
just think it's unrealistic."
The second major initiative
unveiled in Coleman's address was
the formation of a committee to
explore how to improve transpor-
tation between North Campus and
Central Campus.
Coleman said improved trans-
portation between the campuses
will become increasingly impor-
tant with the establishment of the
North Campus Research Complex.
"One of the exciting parts of get-
ting the North Campus Research
Complex, the NCRC, is that all of
sudden, we're going have a much
greater density of people on North
Campus," Coleman said. "What
we're going to do in the winter
term is put together a technology
transportation forum."

essential to the continuation of
many of these programs.
However, Woods was quick to
point out that annual giving isn't
just about the money donated, but
it's also about talking with donors.
"Our alumni don't just make a
donation or give a gift. It's a very
different relationship here at
Michigan because our alumni feel
as though they're investing in our
school, they're investing in our stu-
dents and they're investing in our
faculty and research," Woods said.
"With that comes a responsibility
that we have as annual giving offi-
cers to make sure that we commu-
nicate with them and provide them
with information on how their
investment is working."

be very participative in service to solicit donations, thank donors and
the University in their early years," strengthen relationships.
Woods said. Jacquelyn Aanes, associate
Although Woods said there director of telefundraising for
wasn't acorrelationbetweenthe age annual giving, said her office con-
at which alumni start giving back sists of three full-time staff and up
to the University, she said there is a to 150 undergraduate and graduate
trend in how much they give to the student callers.
University as they become older Two of the staff work duringthe
and accumulate wealth. day, while one full-time staff mem-
"We do see that giving behav- ber supervises the student callers,
ior starts to morph a little more as who work duringthe evening.
you start to get older," Woods said. In total, students made 1.6 mil-
"But we don't limit our solicitation lion calls last year.
activity to recent graduates or peo- "We call everyone from people
ple within a specific age group or who have recently graduated and
graduation period." not donated to people who have
Gagliardi added that the vari- been out of school for 50 years,
ance in giving between age groups and they've been donating for 20
- as more recent graduates may not years consistently," Aanes said. "Of
NUAL GIVING AT A GLANCE
TOTAL: $41.9 MILLION
NON-ALUMNI TOTAL: $27.7M
Academics: $5.5 million
Other Targets: $8.7 million
ALUMNI TOTAL: $27.7M
Academics: $18 million
Other Targets: $9.7 million

amounts of money.
"A couple years ago there was one
evening where Telefund brought in
$100,000 inonenight,butnotevery
night is like that," Aanes said.
While that was an impressive
night for the Telefund office, Aanes
said she is in awe of the sheer num-
ber of people who donate.
"Our average gift size is just
under $100, so we have thousands
upon thousands of people saying
'Yes, I believe in Michigan, and I
want to give back,' " she said. "To
have 22,000 pledges in ayear, that's
a lot of people saying yes."
Though not every person called
will agree to give a donation, Aanes
said student callers talk to potential
donors to help them better under-
stand how important private support
is to the quality of the University.
"A lot of times when we call non-
donors they may not understand
that their tuition may have only
covered 50 percent of their actual
cost of education when they were
here," Aanes said. "Part of what
we're trying to do is just increase
the awareness about the impor-
tance of private support."
INTERNATIONAL GIVING:
EXPLORING UNCHARTED
TERRITORY
While annual giving focuses on
alumni and friends of the University
who live in Michigan and across the
United States, there are also many
alumni and friends who live inother
countries. They may live thousands
of miles away, but international
alumni are just as valuable to the
development office as alumni who
live down Washtenaw Avenue.
Because the two groups of indi-
vidual donors - domestic and
international - are very different,
a separate operation handles gifts
from international friends and
alumni.
It's a relatively new part of the
Development Office, but one that
Jefferson Porter, associate vice
president for development, said is
becoming increasingly important.
"Our alumni are in every cor-
ner of the globe," Porter said. "We
feel it's really important to find a
way for all our alumni, regardless
of where they're located, to par-
ticipate and to contribute to things
that are relevant to them."
He added the office establishes
relationships with .international
alumni to do more than just raise
money.

"It's really about raising aware-
ness, connections between alumni
in given geographic regions and
bringing them into what I would
hope would be a nice, long relation-
ship for the University, where we
continue to provide value to the
alumni," Porter said.
According to Porter, China and
Southeast Asia boast the Univer-
sity's largest international alumni
populations. During the last few
years, the development team has
focused its efforts on those regions
by traveling to targeted areas once
a year, hosting alumni events and
initiating discussions with local
alumni leaders.
"I think it's really paying off in
the sense that we're seeing ever-
growing numbers of alumni who
are coming to events, who are sort
of connecting back to the Univer-
sity," he said, adding that alumni of
all ages are participating.
While tax deductions motivate
alumni living in the United States
to donate to the University, interna-
tional alumni don't enjoy the same
benefits. Because of this, Porter
said the office is working on ways
to provide incentives to alumni
abroad who donate.
"I know it's a barrier," he said. "I
recognize it, and we're working on
a couple of things to try to make it
easier."
However, Porter said it's not a
large problem because many inter-
national alumni donate their assets
in the United States, and not neces-
sarily their home country.
In the future, Porter said he
hopes to see international giving
"grow fairly robustly," with alumni
heavily participating in the next
capital campaign. However, he
said it will take time before the
University realizes the effects of
international investment.
"It will take an investment on
our part for sure, but I am really
encouraged by the reception that
we've had, the open arms that
alumni have provided us - whether
it's hosting us, or providing intro-
duction to companies with other
alumni, to providing gifts," he said.
"I think all those are working in a
positive direction."
THE DEVELOPMENT
SERIES, PART THREE
How to go about getting
your name on a campus
building or program.

Source: Elizabeth Woods, senior associate director of marketing and research for annual giving

Woods said the main challenge
for annual giving staff is keeping
donor information up to date and
trying to create a personal expe-
rience when there are so many
donors to work with.
"The challenge is that we want to
be as unique and mirror specifical-
ly what that alum has experienced,
but it's difficult to do that on such a
grand scale," Woods said.
Woods explained that when con-
tacting alumni, the Development
Office tries to relate to the indi-
vidual experiences the alumni had
while students at the University.
Similarly, when the Development
Office reaches out to friends of the
University, it highlights projects
and programs at the University
that are of particular interest to the
donor. However, Woods said that
effectivelymanagingsuchinforma-
tion is not possible with the current
computer system the office uses.
Joseph Gagliardi, senior associ-
ate director of annual giving, said
a new donor database system, that
is currently being designed and
implemented for the development
office, till he ptokeep accurate
donor records and will make it
easier to relate to annual giving
donors.
"From a philanthropy stand-
point, one of the beautiful things
this new database will allow us is to
understand the preferences a little
bit better of our donors so that we
know if they prefer e-mail commu-
nications as opposed to phone or
mail," Gagliardi said, adding that it
is not very easy to track preferenc-
es like that in the current database
system.
Woods said donor preferences
and behavior vary by age, but also
that graduate and undergraduate
alumni behave differently.
"Undergraduate alumni tend to

have the means to give larger gifts
- is part of what makes annual giv-
ing so unique.
"One of the real front and center
things we try to focus on in annual
giving is that it's about giving and
supporting at whatever level and
the power that can have when cou-
pled with other gifts from (donors')
fellow alums," Gagliardi said.
In the last capital campaign, The
Michigan Difference Campaign, 61
percent of donors were over the age
of 50, while only 19 percent were in
their forties and 20 percent were
under 39 years old.
While Gigliardi and Woods agree
that large gifts for capital projects
are vital to the University's devel-
opment and growth, annual giving
contributions are crucial to fund-
ing student financial aid and other
ongoing programs.
"Annual giving at Michigan is a
really unique and wonderful area
to be in when you think about phi-
lanthropy overall," Woods said.
"We work at addressing the larger
scale of the alumni body and talk-
ing to them and making the case for
support and creating important
and meaningful fulfillment areas
for them through mail, phone and
e-mail."
TELEFUND OFFICE:
CALLING ALL DONORS
While the annual giving office
uses mail, e-mail and the Internet
to stay connected with donors, a
major focus on phone calls creates
a more personal experience in an
effort to encourage giving, offi-
cials said.
A division within the annual
giving program at the University,
the Telefund office is responsible
for making these calls to alumni
and friends of the University to

course, not every single phone call
results in someone picking up the
phone and saying'Yes, I would love
to give'"
Out of the people called lastyear,
Aanes said 98,000 people were con-
tacted, of whom 22,000 donated or
a little more than 22 percent, rais-
ing $2.16 million for the University.
Some calling campaigns focus
on raising money from people who
regularly give to the University,
while others are intended to edu-
cate donors about campus events or
thank donors for giving.
Last year, Telefund callers made
nearly 25,000 phone calls thanking
donors for their gifts.
"A huge part of what we teach
the students to do is to say the word
thank you and to really listen,"
Aanes said. "We also hope that if
people start to give, and they feel
good about it, and we can thank
them appropriately, show them
how we've used their gift, that
they'll continue to give."
On the other hand, Aanes said
there have also been nights when
Telefund has raised very large



A few years ago, discussion of a
possible monorail system to link
North and Central Campus circu-
lated, though no official action was
taken.
Coleman also discussed the Uni-
versity's recent research boom. She
said a record 350 inventions were
created last year and that Universi-
ty research expenditures exceeded
$1 billion over the last year.
"Two years ago, I told campus
that I hoped we would reach this
achievement by 2012, and our fac-
ulty took less than half that time to
distinguishthemselvesonceagain,"
Coleman said. "Steve Forrest, our
vice president for research, points
out that while it took the Univer-
sity 192 years to achieve $1 billion
in research spending, we could
achieve $2 billion by our bicenten-
nial in 2017."
During the speech, Coleman
also gave an update on the Presi-
dent's 100 New Faculty Initiative,
a hiring program Coleman estab-
lished in her 2007 State of the
University address. The initiative
focuses on hiring 100 inter-disci-
plinary junior faculty members to
work in complex research areas,
including climate change and
HIV/AIDS.
"We're making good progress,"
Coleman said of the 49 individu-
als who have been hired through
the program. "The hiring process
is somewhat more time-consuming
than with a single scholar, because
we are building teams and the fac-
ulty on those teams must comple-
ment each other."
The initiative is planned to be
fully implemented by 2012 and is
expected to cost $30 million.
Coleman also announced that
a search process will soon com-
mence for a full-time executive
director for the North Campus
Research Complex. The new direc-

tor will provide overall strategic
leadership and general oversight to
the NCRC.
"The North Campus Research
Complex is a once-in-a-century
opportunity to redefine academic
research in critical areas," Coleman
said. "The world looks to research
universities for answers to such
dilemmas as climate change, global
pandemics and medical innova-
tion."
Though Coleman discussed
many new initiatives during her
speech, she didn't sugarcoat the
hard financial situation the Uni-
versity is in.
"We have not gone unscathed
and should not pretend otherwise,"
she said. "The numbers are there in
black and white."
The University's endowment
has fallen more than 20 percent,
something Coleman said has obvi-
ously affected the University's
operations.
"No organization can absorb a
20-percent loss in investments and
not feel it," she said. "But we are
slowly recovering because of an
investment strategy that is conser-
vative and yetfocused on long-term
performance."
Coleman said that while Univer-
sity officials have taken many steps
to cut costs, faculty and staff need
to continue to find more fat to trim.
"Now we must double our inten-
sity. Double it." Coleman said
sternly.
Despite the sobering news,
Coleman said she is confident the
University will emerge from these
tough economic times stronger
than when it went into them.
"We are on the cusp of 200 years
of leadership as the University of
Michigan," Coleman said. "And
through our creativity and colle-
giality, we will be stronger in 2017
than we are today."

H PV Fct
A bout
f. f s D w i gOet
genital warts after
infected.
to cuall have
There's something you can do.
f ar



0

8 - Tuesday, October 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

The Middle'
is a house of
hopelessness

Sex with the lights on: the horrible aftermath.

Making p

'Bright Star' embraces love to become a
uniquely successful period piece
By Jennifer Xu ( For the Daily

As steeped in the seasons as
nature itself, Jane Campion's
"Bright Star" swirls lyrical poetry
about its body
like a fine cloak. ****
Sixteen years
have passed Bright Star
since Campion's At Showcase
globally praised a
film "The Piano" and the State
achieved Oscar Apparition
glory, and she
has grown up in the intervening
years. While "Bright Star" shares
the free spirit and raw passion of
its predecessor, "Star" is softer,
livelier and infinitely more daz-
zling.
Combining period film with a
pinch of biopic, "Bright Star" tells
the tale of poet John Keats's (Ben
Whishaw, "Brideshead Revisited")
three-year romance with fashion
seamstress Fanny Brawne E(Abbie
Cornish, "Stop-Loss") until his
untimely death at 25.

With prim, sexless demeanors,
period films have a tendency to
distance audiences. But the great
thing about "Bright Star" is that
it's relatable. The relationship
between Keats and Brawne could
have been pulled out of the pages
of any college romance. It's full of
awkwardness, mixed signals and
anxiety. Sex is portrayed straight-
forwardly, not as taboo. Normally,
a huge scandal erupts ifa charac-
ter even deigns to kiss the other,
but a scene where Fanny offers
herself to Keats proves shock-
ingly sensational for the film's PG
rating.
Campion has made a living
exploring feminist motivations in
her films, and "Bright Star" con-
tinues this trend. But beneath its
wild core, the film evokes a certain
tenderness. Fanny is undoubtedly
a strong individual who speaks her
mind and does whatever she wants,
but she's also a human being with

the capacity to feel, love and give.
"Bright Star" is a film as atten-
tive to appearance as it is to narra-
tive. Campion seamlessly strings
together a lush orchestral score,
shimmering cinematography and
stunning costume design to bring
19th-century England to life. But-
terflies illuminate the bedroom,
flowers wreath the reclined bod-
ies and kisses melt on top of each
other. The frocks have flounce
and ruffles and bright overlays.
Delicate choir strains ornament
the expressive poetry of Keats. It
looks, feels and breathes romanti-
cism.
As far as acting goes, Cornish
proves that she is more than the
homewrecker who broke apart
the marriage of Ryan Phillipe and
Reese Witherspoon. She plays
Fanny Brawne to understated
precision, her vain and flirtacious
nature evolving into something
deeper as the film goes on. In a
scene near the film's end, her per-
fectly coiffed restraint is punc-
tured by the suddenness of Keats's
death. She begins to ascend the
stairs, then halts. Her hands start
trembling - she can't control them

as she breaks out into broken sobs.
She sinks to the floor, hands still
in disarray, and lets out a raw cry:
"Mama, I can't breathet" It's a pic-
ture of sublime emotion.
While the film is really all about
Fanny, Whishaw provides an
able supporting role as the sickly,
moody John Keats, struggling not
only to find inspiration for his
poens, but also to dig up the finan-
cial means to support Fanny. It's
difficult to play a dying character
without coming off as contrived,
but Whishaw displays just the
right amount of patheticism and
pitifulness to pull it off. The chem-
istry between these two is undeni-
able, and, despite the confines of
society at the time, a surprisingly
sizzling romance develops.
"Bright Star" is a heartbreak-
ing love story of magnetic pro-
portions, just barely letting go of
the reigns of starched decency to
create one of the freshest explora-
tions of female sexuality in a long
time. It is a film about living, lov-
ing and breathing in beauty - a
splendor that is experienced with
all five senses, embracing the spirit
of Keats's sensuous poetry.

By CHRISTINA ANGER
For the Daily
The dysfunctional family is the
backbone of many a TV series, and
rightfully so, as it's all too easy to
relate to. ABC's
"The Middle" *
looks at a some-
what average The Middle
family, attempt-
ing to highlight Wednesdays
the poignant at 8:30 p.m.
intricacies of ABC
daily life - awk-
ward and lazy kids, dead-end jobs
and that lovingly parental feeling
of "where did my life go?" In an
effort to create a show somewhere
between dysfunctional and highly
situational, "The Middle" lands
dryly and appropriately in the mid-
dle. And, for the record, the show is
not even as clever as that last obser-
vation. Sad.
Patricia Heaton ("Everybody
Loves Raymond") is Frankie, a
mother of three who is slowly real-
izing her outlook on life is lack-
luster and jaded. As a used car
saleswoman who hasn't yet sold a
car, the unoriginal pathetic vibe
resonates from Heaton through the
entire pilot episode. There isn't one
strong character who stands out
from the rest - they are all quite
run-of-the-mill. Frankie's husband
Mike Heck (Neil Flynn, "Scrubs")
is the ditzy dad who hasn't a clue,
and even Chris Kattan ("Saturday
Night Live") plays a shallowly aloof
role as one of Frankie's friends.
With these actors, there is plenty
of opportunity to display life's real
pitiable moments, but it's going to
take something more substantial
than Frankie and Mike forgetting
to pick up the kids or the fact that
their only daughter Sue (Eden Sher,
"Sons and Daughters") is awkward
and awful at anything she tries. It's
really more depressing than funny.
The show makes use of"Malcolm
in The Middle"-style directingwith
quick cuts and clumsy angles, and
scenes are full of blaring vibrant
colors. From Frankie's repulsion at

her new driver's license picture to
her perplexity at her youngest son's
best friend also being his backpack,
each familiar scene bleeds blurrily
into the next. Unlike "Malcolm,"
there isn't a sense of hopelessness
easily mended by in-your-face per-
sonalities. Instead, Frankie comes
to a cutesy moral at the end of the
first episode: Her family is uncan-
ny, but she loves them all the same.
TV shows quickto push morals that
tie pretty bows around issues like
the monotony of life never have as
much depth as they should, and
"The Middle" is no different.
Heaton's role as narrator and
overwhelmed hapless mom pales
when compared to her strong, kick-
Regular day-to-
day life is
actually boring.
Who knew?
ass personality beside the Ray-
mond everybody loved. She used to
spit sarcastic fire and managed to
juggle three kids, life and a raging
mother-in-law. In "The Middle,"
she has some shining moments that
accurately depict an overworked
mom, but the overworked moms of
the world don't necessarily want to
watch a self-portrayal. "The Mid-
dle" offers no escape for its demo-
graphic nor for its main character.
The show needs to decide what
it's trying to do - hail to its moral
and magnify the beauty in day-to-
day family life (please, no) or kick
its cast into gear and try to scratch
decent. Hopefully the writers can
use the show's title as an irony
of sorts and dig deeper into the
faults of the average family, ris-
ing above that dangerous median
line. Making something average
enthralling isn't an easy job, but
that doesn't excuse "The Middle"
for not doing it.

Brand New and totally not improved

By KEVIN MEYER
For the Daily
It's only natural for a healthy band to trans-
form over the course of its long and often
twisted career path, explor-
ing new sounds or diverging *
into parallel genres. Long
Island-based alt-rockers Brand New
Brand New are no exception.
Led by lyrical prodigy and Daisy
guitarist Jesse Lacey, Brand Insterscope
New has risen to popularity
since it signed with Triple
Crown Records in 2001. Since this transition
to a major label, the group has shed its initial
association with cliche, eyeliner-ridden rock-
ers like Taking Back Sunday and Senses Fail,
plumbing psychological depths untouched by
modern "scream-o."
The group culminated this raw makeover
with 2006's profoundly surprising release
of Devil and God Are Raging Inside Me. The
album marked a drastic shift in theme and
mood, channeling Lacey's personal depres-
sion into a dark, guttural release. On Daisy,
Brand New attempts to continue this trend,

but ultimately fails, overreaching with 45
minutes of desperation atop obnoxiously dis-
torted guitar tracks.
Most of Daisy shows a clear departure from
the band's previous formula, which consisted
of Lacey's better-than-average voice pelting
the listener with clever lyrics over aching, bass-
driven tracks. Daisy opts instead for a fury of,
well, loudness. To call the album dissonant is
an understatement. The opening track "Vices"
is the most obvious example, sounding more
like an extended yell than any sort of song.
One need only look at the track list to notice
the distinct difference in intention. Brand
New used to come up with engaging titles like
"Jude Law and a Semester Abroad" or "The
Boy Who Blocked His Own Shot," but now
hands out loathing, one-word monikers like
"Sink" and "Gasoline." The titles are evidence
of the transition from wit and finesse to brute,
musical force.
With Brand New's overblown attempt at
amped-up instrumentation, the band loses the
opportunity to capitalize on its greatest talent:
lyricism. Most of the album is wasted on seeth-
ing guitars and mutant yelling, foregoing any
development of compelling lyrics. The only

two exceptions are the title track in which the
group circles around the issue of male insecu-
rity and the memorable track "At the Bottom"
Daisy fails to capitalize on Lacey's obvi-
ously profuse emotional burden like Devil and
God did. Where Brand New's previous releas-
es used witty lyrics and guitar-centric melo-
dies to convey an often-jilted view of love,
the band instead covers up its insecurities
Loud, bland and
too aggressive.
with loudness. Daisy provides an image of an
abrasive, nervous band, a stark contrast from
the self-assuring, dynamic band shown in the
past. Where the Ilbum strives to feel multidi-
mensional, the blandness of its single-stroke
over-aggressive structure actually results in
something very one-dimensional. The bands
attempt at greatness ends up in nothing but
mediocrity, and is capable of inciting in fans
a brand new aggravation for Brand New's risk
taking.

I

4

4

Seeing your career hit a dead end can be hard to swallow,

4

Trying too hard to be legendary on 'Shawarma'

By SHARON JACOBS
For theDaily
Legend of the Black Shawarma,
the newest release by Israeli trance
duo Infected Mushroom, is sure
to solidify the
group's status -
as a love-it-or-
be-annoyed-by- InfeCted
it cult icon. This M ho
time around,
IM's love of Legend of the
metal takes cen- Black Shawarma
ter stage, mak- Perfecto
ing for an even
more eclectic
mix than usual. It's a big step away
from the duo's signature psyche-
delic trance, clouding the usual del-
icate bells and beeps with distorted
guitar riffs. Legend is probably too
intense for crossover appeal, but
fans should be intrigued by the
group's sonic evolution.
Infected Mushroom hails from
Haifa, Israel. Members Erez
Eisen and Amit Duvdevani are
both classically trained musicians
who found electronic music at a

young age. IM has found success
in many parts of the world but
is practically unheard of outside
electronic music circles, despite
its genre-bending tendencies.
Legend of the Black Shawarma is
the outfit's seventh full-length
album; named after a traditional
Middle Eastern dish, it was origi-
nally meant to include a track for
each of Eisen and Duvdevani's
favorite restaurants.
Some of the songs on Legend
really do sound legendary. The
excellent "Poquito Mas" opens the
album with a delicate Middle East-
ern guitar melody before settling
into gritty metal-flavored elec-
tronica. The exotic Middle East-
ern motif comes in and out, adding
a sense of chaos from all the genre
mashing. But Duvdevani's heavy
Israeli accent, present here as on
many of the tracks, helps to keep
the music grounded.
The album's first single
"Smashing the Opponent" fea-
tures Korn's Jonathan Davis, who
crafts it into another standout.
Davis's smooth yet strained voice

easily rises above the pared-down eral of the songs are full of build-
instrumentals,consummatingthe ups that don't go anywhere. The
album's attempt at metal-trance polyrhythmic section of "Project
fusion. It's also one of the dark- 100" is striking at first for its sim-
er-sounding songs on the album, plicity, but it fades away without
already IM's heaviest. developing into more. And "Kill-
The title track sounds like a ing Time," featuring Perry Farrell
return to the second side of Con- of Jane's Addiction, truly lives up
verting Vegetarians, IM's epic to its name.
attempt to make trance music Infected Mushroom is often
that could stand apart from hailed as a primer band for trance
trance culture. It takes three music, a genre that gets slack
minutes to get to the meat, but for being repetitive and boring.
the buildup holds the listener's While some of Legend falls into
that trap, the more concise songs
retain the ever-shifting melo-
Really boring dies and uncommon sounds that
held listeners' interest in earlier
'shrooms. singles like "Converting Vegetar-
ians" and "Becoming Insane."
The album clocks in at 77 min-
interest by constantly adding new utes - not at all unheard of for
layers of sound - a sort of musical Infected Mushroom - but it still
shawarma. The middle section is feels too long. Fans will likely be
a nice opportunity for Eisen and pleased with the new direction,
Duvdevani to showcase their but those new to trance or to
classical skills with some pretty the specific stylings of Infected
piano arpeggios. Mushroom would be better off
Unfortunately, much of Legend simply downloading a few of the
is self-glorifying rambling. Sev- shorter songs.

A FINE ARTS WRITER
BY ANY OTHER NAME
WOULD SMELL
AS SWEET.
BUT HONESTLY WHY ARE
YOU SNIFFING PEOPLE?
WRITE FOR FINE ARTS

4

4

E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an application.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 9

i

P The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 6, 2009 - 9

Molk recovering well
By ANDY REID competition on the defense in order
Daily Sports Editor to try and find a group that will best
bond together and find consistency
With the Michigan football team on Saturdays.
posting a measly 28 rushing yards "You take away a couple of those
in Saturday's loss to Michigan State scramble plays, their big third and
- including just 17 by running backs long passes, and it was a pretty solid
Carlos Brown and Brandon Minor - effort," Rodriguez said. "But you
coach Rich Rodriguez knows he has have to count those. Those are part
some work to do on the offensive line. of the whole deal.... We've got to be
But until center David Molk more consistent I think is the word
recovers from a broken foot he sus- in all three phases, particularly
tained against Eastern Michigan, defensively."
Rodriguez's options are limited. MEALER'SSTORY:OnChristmas
Molk is back in the weight room Eve 2007, redshirt freshman line-
and participating in things like the man Elliott Mealer and his family
power clean, according to defensive were inahorrific car accident, which
lineman Mike killed his father and girlfriend and
Martin. But it NOTEBOOK left his brother paralyzed. Mealer
could still be two also tore his rotator cuff while try-
to four weeks before Molk sees the ingto rescue his brother.
field Tonight at 7 p.m., ESPN's weekly
"He should be out of his protective investigative newsmagazine show
boot that he's been wearing," Rodri- "ESPN E:60" will broadcast a fea-
guez said yesterday. "He was with ture about Mealer's story.
(athletictrainerPaul Schmidt)yester- "Lisa Salters reports how after
day doing some things, snapping the the tragedy, Elliott needed to heal
ball and all that, but I'll see him this not only physically, but emotion-
afternoon and see how he's doing." ally," the show's press release states.
The Wolverines were averaging "He found comfort at the home of
270 rushing yards per game with his girlfriend's family and inspi-
Molk. In the two games without ration from his brother, who was
him, they are postingjust88. fighting to walk again. Elliott also
DEFENSIVE STABILITY:. After found a new family at the Univer-
redshirt freshman J.T. Floyd sity of Michigan, where Rodriguez
stepped up and replaced sophomore supported him as he redshirted his
Boubacar Cissoko as the starting freshman season."
cornerback opposite stalwart Dono- . Rodriguez elaborated yesterday
van Warren, it was clear the Michi- on how Mealer has adjusted after
gan coaches wanted to make a few the accident.
changes with the defense. 3 "He does not want to be coached
More changes will continue, and or treated any differently, and he
not only in the secondary. Rodri- told us," Rodriguez said. "We talked
guez said yesterday that the coaches about that the first time I met him.
have entertained the possibility of I said, 'Listen, we're here for you'
switching things up other positions and all that, and he said, 'Coach, I
including linebacker. just want to be treated like everyone
"Yeah, every job is up for grabs else: And so we have. We get on him
every week," Rodriguez said. "It on certain things, and we pat him
sounds like coach speak, but our on the back, but we also appreciate
guys know they have to play at a cer- what he's been through."
tain level. Jonas (Mouton) and Obi Rodriguez said the Michigan
(Ezeh) have played very, very hard. players and coaches have helped
... I think Jonas is a very active play- Mealer with the tragedy, but his fam-
er, and Obi has played solid, as well, ily, who travels from Wauseon, Ohio
but we can all play better." for every game, have been there with
Currently, sophomore J.B. him every step of the way.
Fitzgerald is behind Ezeh at middle "He's got a wonderful family,"
linebacker and redshirt sophomore Rodriguez said. "His mother Shelly
Kevin Leach is No. 2 to Mouton at andhis brothers arejustterrific peo-
will linebacker. Leach started for the ple. They're always the last people I
entire Eastern Michigangame, when see after the game. They're tailgat- t
Mouton was suspended for an appar- ing champions now. They'll be right
ent punch in the Notre Dame game. out there'tailgatingunitil long after
The coaches are opening the everybody is gone."

CUF REEDER/Daily
Senior Brandon Graham has had to fight double teams and max-protection blocking from opposing offenses this year, but has emerged at the defense's biggest leader.
r m adopts vocal
leadership role on young 'D'

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
The locker room was silent
after the Michigan football team's
overtime loss to Michigan State
last Saturday.
But then senior defensive end
Brandon Graham spoke up.
"When we got in the locker
room after the loss, Brandon was
just telling everyone, 'Remember
this feeling,' " sophomore defen-
sive tackle Mike Martin said
Monday. "Just yelling it through
the whole locker room, because
everyone was just - it was silent.
Brandon just cracked the silence
and was just like, 'Remember this
feeling.'"
It's something you would
expect to hear from a senior in
a shaken locker room. But in the
past, words like those have rarely
come from Graham's mouth, even
though his candidness with the
media and his joking demeanor
during in practice would suggest
otherwise.
Lastseason, Graham let his Sat-
urday afternoon numbers do the
talking: 20 tackles for loss (second
in the country), 10 sacks (seventh
in the nation) and 46 tackles (a
career high). He also posted three
sacks against Michigan State last
year.
"Coach talked to him (saying)
that he has to work on being more
of a vocal leader, even though he
does put leadership on the field
obviously by making plays," Mar-
tin said. "But he's doing a good job
talking to us. It's not his thing.
He's told me, 'I'm not much of a
talker.'
"But when it comes to actually
giving some good leadership out
there and saying the things he
needs to say, he's getting pretty
good at it."
And just as Graham, a pre-
season All-American selection,
has started to embrace his role
as a leader in the locker room,
the opposing offensive lines have
started to lock him down on the
field. He routinely faces double
teams or goes against max-pro-
tection blocking.
The extra attention has
helped Martin, redshirt soph-
omore Ryan Van Bergen and
freshman Craig Roh sack the
quarterback a combined four
and a half times. And Graham

has still made i
field, leading th
les for loss (6.5).
But in sacks,
which every d
judged, Graham
next to his nam
Saturday, when h
quarterback
Kirk Cous-
ins four yards
behind the line
of scrimmage
and forced him
to cough up
the ball with
11:15 left in the
game.
"He hasn't
said it, but I
know he was
getting a little
wasn't getting (an
"He was getting
times in games, a:
like to not get his
Although he w
first four games
Graham is still
former-Wolverin
(1996-99), who 1
most career sa

t into the back- gan. Graham, who has 20 career
e team in tack- sacks, needs five to tie Hall and
pass four former greats, includ-
the category by ing Lamar Woodley (2003-06).
efensive end is Mark Messner (1985-88) sits atop
has had a zero that list with 36.
e. At least until But comparisons with the play-
e caught Spartan ers on that list don't accurately
quantify his
impact on this
year's young
"Brandon was defense. Gra-
ham is lead-
telling everyone, ing a defensive
line on which
'Remember this he has nearly
twice as much
feelng.'> game experi-
ence as any
other starter,
yet Michigan
antsy that he coach Rich Rodriguez called it
ay)," Martin said. "the most consistent group on
so close so many our defense."
nd BG, he doesn't It's a tribute to Graham.
sacks." "Having him out there - he's
vent through the a senior, he's been through it,"
without a sack, Martin said. "I remember talking
within range of to him when it was a third down
e James Hall just looking at him, he looks
has the second- over at me and is like, 'Come on,
cks for Michi- Mike. Let's go.' Just those little

words that he says, little words of
encouragement, you know, it just
settles me down out there on the
field."
Although opposing quarter-
backs might not know what hit
them as they fall to the ground,
his presence is being felt more
than ever on the defense with his
words, especially when Graham
told his teammates to "remember
this feeling."
"When it comes next weekend
and we're at Iowa, we'll remnei-
ber him saying that," Martin said.

Bearulfer
Stent Publications
seeks New Member
The University of Michigan Board for Student
Publications is recruiting a member for a one-year
term beginning immediately.
The Board is responsible for three publications:
The Michigan Daily, the Michiganensian Yearbook,
and the Gargoyle.
Because the Board is committed to realizing
diversity's benefits for itself and for the publications
it oversees, the Board is particularly interested in
recruiting members of the University Community
(faculty, staff and students) or the general public
who are members of underrepresented groups and
who have experience and expertise in journalism, law,
finance or development.
Interested persons are encouraged to apply.
For more information and application forms, please
contact Mark Bealafeld, Student Publications General
Manager at (734) 936-7883 or mbealafe@umich.edu.
The deadline for receipt of applications is
Friday, October 16, 2009.

Would you let this man into your hote?
Hilarity ensues when a family man is duped by
a pious con-man in this comic masterpiece.
by Moiere
Directed by Priscilla Lindsay
Dept. of Theatre & Drama
Oct.8 & 1. at 7:30 PM " Oct.9, 10, 16,& 17 at 8 PM
October 11 & 18 at 2 PM *Arthur Miller Theatre
General Admission $24 *Students $9 with ID
League Ticket Office 9 734-764-2538 " music.umich.edu


10 - Tuesday, October 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

10 - Tuesday, October 6, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

After fast start in tournament,
'M' stumbles in the final round

Blt
p
h
bo

FILE PHOTO/Doaiy
Junior Tyler Clary was the NCA A Swimmer ot the Year last year and spent the summer competing overseas.
Big Ten title, NA
prominence still not
enough for Bottom

A re
mance v
the No
team.It
themse
round o
the Win
Glenco
Mich
with Il
and tw
tition.I
round,
303 poi
nate 13
two.

ue falls to fifth Michigan struggled to birdie
towards the end of the competi-
lace after six tion. The Wolverines had sixholes
oles of double of double bogeys or worse.
"Today, we just didn't play
geys or worse well," Michigan coach Andrew
Sapp said. "We had one of the
worse scores of the whole day
By ZAK PYZIK compared to the other teams, We
For the Daily were missing greens, hitting it in
trees and the weather was perfect.
peat of Sunday's perfor- We can't blame it on anything but
would have been ideal for ourselves."
. 19 Michigan men's golf Sophomore Matt Thompsonled
nstead,the Wolverines saw Michigan, finishing 20th over-
lves slip from first place in all in the tournament. He shot
'ne to a fifth-place finish at four over par and accumulated 75
ndon Memorial Classic in points in round three.
e, Ill. Thompson entered the event
igan exchanged the lead ranked No. 8, and certainly lived
linois through round one up to expectations in round one
o of the two-day compe- by finishing only one over par. He
But in yesterday's final ended his streak of seven consec-
the Wolverines tallied utive rounds of par or better after
nts; good for an unfortu- notching 75 points in the second
th-place finish in round and third rounds.
"I had two double bogeys,"

Thompson said. "If you take them
away, we're sitting much better.".
The trio of Thompson, junior
Lion Kim and freshman Jack
Schultz finished one- two- three
again, and golfed 12 of 18 rounds
at par or better.
"We needed to play like we
played Sunday, but we weren't
able to do that," Kim said. "We
made a lot of mistakes. I made
a couple double bogeys today.
We had to stay away from big
numbers, and we just didn't do
that."
The Wolverines will have to
regroup as they prepare to bat-
tle at the Brickyard Collegiate
tournament in Macon, Ga., this
upcoming weekend.
"As a team, we are on the right
track- it's a matter of all five guys
playing well at the same time,"
Kim said. "Our team'this year has
the most potential out of every
other team and it's just a matter
of us clicking."

By RYAN A. PODGES
Daily Sports Writer
For most coaches, winning a Big
Ten title and finishing the season
as the No. 7 team in the nation in
your first season would alleviate
the feeling of pressure that comes
with taking over an elite program.
Mike Bottom is not one of them.
The Michigan men's swimming
and diving coach, felt that a strong
sense of urgencystarted, notended,
after his first season finished in
March. At that point, his team had
already crushed second place Ohio
State at the conference champion-
ship meet by more than 300 points
and had just finished seventh at the
NCAA Championships.
"I could tell he thought we were
going to place higher than we did
last year at that meet," said junior
Tyler Clary, who won two individu-
al national titles and was last year's
national Swimmer of the Year.
After the NCAA Championships,
Bottom was convinced the team
was moving in the right direction,
but quickly stressed, "Unless we
move a little bit faster, we're not
going to be in the game."
But don't confuse Bottom's rush
to move the team forward for impa-
tience or disappointment. Instead,
he is driven by his belief that Mich-
igan is on the cusp of winning a
record 12th national team title.
Admittedly, Bottom's coaching
approach during his first year was
at times more about simply watch-
ingand learning from his new team
than trying to implement a lot of
changes. But as his second season
begins, it is clear this will bea year
for action. As the swimmers start
getting in shape for their upcoming
season, it seems nothing is a better
indication of this than the intensity
of practice.
"Training has been really hard,"
senior co-captain Shaun Weinberg
said. "There are just no words for
it. Right now, it's all work, no play.
Everything Mike does is fast-paced,
and ever since last year, he started
picking up the pace in all aspects
of practice and setting the vibe for
what's to come."
In addition to being in better

physical condition, the Wolverines
will start their season with some-
thing else that many of them did
not have a year ago - international
swimming experience. This sum-
mer, eight Michigan swimmers
swam atseveral international swim
meets.
In July, seniors Alon Mandel and
Weinberg and freshman Andrew
Novakoff competed at the Maccabi-
ah Games, an international Jewish
Olympic-style competition and the
world's third-largest sporting event,
in Israel. Senior co-captain Chris
Brady won three medals, including
one gold, at the World University
Games in Belgrade, Serbia.
At the FINA World Champion-
ships in Rome, Clary finished sec-
ond in the 400-meter individual
medley and placed fifth in the 200-
meter butterfly.
Both Bottom and assistant coach
Dr. Josh White said the empha-
sis Michigan puts on competing
internationally and building up to
the Olympic Games sets it apart
from most other college programs.
Swimming abroad also has benefits
that the coaches hope will make
the team mentally tougher heading
into this season.
"I think anytime the guys get to
travel outside of the country and
see the world competition, it gives
them more confidence that they
can come back into the NCAA and
battle with the best of the best,"
Bottom said. -
He pointed to sophomore Dan
Madwed, who took home a gold
medal for his preliminary race in
the 4x200-meter freestyle relay
at the World Championships, as
an example of a swimmer who
revealed his true potential when
he was tested in a new environ-
ment overseas. But beyond the ben-
efits these experiences bring to the
athletes' performances in the pool,
Bottom said it presents a differ-
ent "flavor of life" that helps them
mature into better team leaders.
"Our guys understand what a
tremendous honor it is to represent
the United States," he said. "Shaun
Weinberg is someone who got a
chance to experience that. He was
competing with guys from every-

where, and now he comes back and
is captain of our team. Last year,
he didn't make the NCAA Champi-
onships. He scored at the Big Ten
meet, but he was not the kind of
leader that he is after going abroad
and representing the U.S."
The leadership of the team's
experienced upperclassmen is
likely something the Wolverines
will rely on throughout the upcom-
ing season. The Wolverines have 16
freshmen this year, representing
nearly 50 percent of the team. It is
the largest freshman class in the
program's history.
The way the team helps the
freshman class adjust to the col-
lege ranks will be a huge factor in
the season's success. Despite the
multitude of accomplishments
these freshmen have achieved
before coming to Ann Arbor and
the potential they have undoubt-
edly shown so far in practice, some
of their older teammates can see
the team has already experienced
growing pains.
"Freshmen are really wild cards
- someone who we don't expect
anything of could potentially be
the next NCAA champion," Clary
said. "They don't quite understand
what it's all about yet. It's going to
take one of our first really serious
dual meets in order to slap them
back and say, 'Whoa, this is seri-
ous."
For now, that slap back will have
to be provided by their teammates
during workouts. Bottom's prac-
tices are carefully calculated to
make sure the team stays ahead of
last year's training schedule. Every
swim is even categorized in a col-
or-coded system to give the swim-
mers a better understanding of the
coach's goal for each workout. It's
certainly not easy, but everyone
knows, it's all part of taking the
next steps to a national champion-
ship.
"Right now it's all about hard
work, and it's difficult because it
doesn't always pay off right away,"
Brady said. "But now we know
Mike and how much he wants to
win. He definitely has a plan to win,
so that definitely makes it easier for
us to stay focused."

Freshman Derek Dennis slides into home during Michigan's 26-1 exhibition win over the Ontario Blue Jays.
oun verinestomp
Blue Jays in fall ball finale

By BRITTANY SHANNON
For the Daily
In their Michigan baseball
debut, freshmen Derek Dennis
and Patrick Biondi gave the fans
at Ray Fisher Stadium a taste of
what they can look forward to in
the 2010 season. The freshman
duo combined for timely hits and
three RBI in the Wolverines' 26-1,
14-inning exhibition win over the
Ontario Blue Jays yesterday.
In their first official contest as
Wolverines, Dennis and Biondi
impressed Michigan coach Rich
Maloney and may have made a
case for why they should be start-
ers.
"You'll see a lot of them," Malo-
ney said. "You will see Derek
Dennis be the shortstop, and
Biondi will probably be the left
fielder."
The second inning marked the

Blue Jays' only score - on a hit "From a hitting standpoint,
from junior catcher Justin Marra. we'll have to continue to get bet-
By the end of the seventh inning, ter," Maloney said.
the Wolverines held a 20-point "I mean, we've scored a lot of
advantage over the Blue Jays, runs and all, but-we can do a bit
thanks to home runs from Coley better."
The Wolverines' hitting will
need to continue to improve
going into a season in which they
Five Wolverines will face six NCAA Tournament
qualifiers (including North Caro-
hit home runs in lina, who competed in the College
.h .1World Series in each of the past
h -,14-inning four seasons). The Wolverines
exhibition win, can't expect a fall exhibition win
to guarantee smooth sailing in
2010.
"I'm pleased with their perfor-
mance," Maloney said. "As long as
Crank (who led the Wolverines they stay hungry,.I think they've
with seven RBI), Mike Kittle, got a real chance."
Ryan LaMarre, John Lorenz and The next matchup for the Wol-
Tyler Mills. verines will be Feb. 19, when they
That apparently wasn't enough face Maine in the 2010 season
for Maloney. opener in Lubbock, Texas.

GET THE MAP EARLY AT WWW.ANNARBORARTWALK.COM

No F RIDAY, OCI
5 P.M
4po rs ti ; ',SATUVR DA
ANN ARBOR, DEXTER,
SALINE, YPSI LANTI

r. 9
. TO I OP.M. &
Y, OCT. 10
2 P.M. TO 5 P.M.

E

OUR SPONSORS:
galleryone
-- .lvisft ,,

S paulI
A~S

m hickman



