,ddMMftib-
'-am 46F 4bF,
cl ,4e .4jjjC I a......' n. 4,3at

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, January 27, 2009

michigandaily.com

ACADEMICS AND ATHLETICS
Proposals
take on
eligibility,
bowl perks

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Bill Ayers, a controversial figure during last year's presidential election, and his wife, Bernardine Dohrn, field questions during an event at the Graduate Library last night.
Ayers pushes new activism

'u
t
Ob

'alum and wife politically active and question their
country's policies.
ell crowd that Ayers, known for his controver-
sial anti-war past and his supposed
ama alone can't ties to President Barack Obama,
discussed the newly appointed
create change president, social and criminal jus-
tice and his days as a member of
By NICOLE ABER the violent activist organization,
Daily StaffReporter The Weather Underground, at the
event.
r 300 people packed the After decades of work as an edu-
Hatcher Graduate Library cation policy expert and professor
ght to hear social and politi- in Chicago, Ayers was pushed into
ivists Bill Ayers and his wife, the national political spotlight last
line Dohrn, give an impas- fall when Republican vice presi-
call for Americans tobecome dential-nominee Sarah Palin raised

concerns about Obama's connec-
tion to Ayers, indirectly referring to
Ayers as a "terrorist." The most sig-
nificant connection the two shared
was time spent on a Chicago educa-
tion board in the late 1990s.
While Ayers said Obama's elec-
tion signified a new chapter in
American politics, it is not up to
Obama alone to solve all of the
challenges facing the United States
today. Rather, it is up to ordinary
citizens to respond to injustice in
today's society, he said.
"Lyndon Johnson, the most
effective politician of his gen-
eration, was not in the civil rights

movement. F.D.R. was not in the
labor movement. And Lincoln did
not belong to an abolitionist party,"
Ayers said. "They responded to
something on the ground. And it's
that something on the ground that
we have to pay attention to; that we
have to remember."
Ayers said that to create effec-
tive and lasting change, Americans
need to re-define their ideas about
activism and issues of social justice
as well as the United States' role in
the international community.
"The challenge to all of us is not
just to sit around wondering what
See AYERS, Page 7

Faculty body passes.
new oversight rules
for athletes, end to
paid bowl trips
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
After more than an hour of
heated debate, the faculty Senate
Assembly approved a motion to
change who reviews student-ath-
lete eligibility and a motion urging
the University president to stop a
practice of funding bowl games
for members of a student-athlete
eligibility advisory committee.
Members of the Committee
on Academic Performance make
recommendations to the provost
as to whether a student-athlete
should be considered eligible. The
Athletic Department currently
offers committee -nembers reim-
bursement for airfare, hotel, ticket
and meal expenses if they want to
travel to a bowl game.

The practice came under heavy
criticism after a July 2007 inter-
nal University audit found that
the practice "may appear to be a
conflict of interest." Despite the
audit's findings, the University has
continued its practice of paying for
the committee members' trips.
University President Mary Sue
Coleman and Provost Teresa Sul-
livan have defended the practice,
arguing that because the provost
makes the final determination
on eligihility - not the commit-
tee memhers who received reim-
bursement for trips - a conflict of
interest doesn't exist.
A letter to the assembly from
Athletic Director Bill Martin
echoed Coleman's and Sullivan's
stances, stating a conflict doesn't
existbecausetheprovostisnotpro-
vided with tickets or reimbursed
for travel to the bowl games.
At the meeting, Statistics Prof.
Ed Rothman, chair of the Athlete
Academic Advising Committee -
which was created to look into the
student-athlete advising - gave a
See SENATE ASSEMBLY, Page 7

Ove
Harlan
last nil
cal acti
Bernad
sinned

ICE HOCKEY AFTERMATH
Fallout continues from ice clash

se(
fa

Wo MSU players ment yesterday that freshman
forward Andrew Conboy and
suspended for sophomore forward Corey Tropp
will miss the Spartans' final 10 reg-
ason, Kampfer's ular-season games and any playoff
games as punishment for their
ether apologizes actions against Michigan junior
defenseman Steve Kampfer in the
By GJON JUNCAJ final minute of Saturday's game.
Daily Sports Writer Kampfer fell to the ice and was
taken to.the hospital after Conboy
higan State hockey coach and Tropp struck him with their
omley suspended two play- sticks in separate attacks.
the remainder of this season "What happened near the end of
ir roles in an on-ice attack on the game this weekend is not the
igan player Saturday night. way in which we want our hockey
iley said in a written state- program represented," Comley

wrote in the statement. "We can-
not condone their actions. We felt
that we had to send a strong mes-
sage that this behavior will not be
tolerated."
The Central Collegiate Hockey
Association released a statement
yesterday expressing its full sup-
port for the suspensions.
"We feel that the measures taken
by Michigan State are appropriate
and consistent with the parameters
of the sanctions that were being
contemplated by the league," wrote
CCHA Commissioner Tom Anas-
tos, a Michigan State alum.
"That's unacceptable at any

level of hockey," Michigan coach'
Red Berenson said. "I alerted our
team today that there's going to be
emotion in these games. There's
physicality in the games. There's
frustration, there's the revenge fac-
tdr, a retaliation factor.
"But there has to be a moment
when your sixth sense controls
what you do. And that didn't hap-
pen."
Moments after Tropp was
ejected from the game, a 48-year-
old man from Jackson, Mich. con-
fronted him in the visitor's locker
room, according to Department of
See FALLOUT, Page 7

Mic
Rick C
ers for
for thei
a Mich
Coml

CHRID LuMBAK/Daily
Prof. Ed Rothman speaks during the faculty Senate Assembly meeting yesterday.

LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITIES THE 'U' ADMINISTRATION
New academic community University alum Kang will be
'

19

to focus on globalization

one of Ubamas closest assistants

In Global Scholars
Program, University
students will work
with others abroad
By JOHN A. WEISS, JR.
For theDaily
Undergraduate students will
soon have a new opportunity to
learn what a globalized 21st cen-
tury may look like without leaving
Ann Arbor.
Emphasizing a world in which
cultural, racial, ethnic and reli-
gious differences increasingly

impact politics and commerce,
LSA administrators announced the
introduction of a new living-learn-
ing community last week.
Based on the idea of promot-
ing intercultural competency and
informed discussion on global
issues, the Global Scholars Pro-
gram will bring together U.S. and
international students in an inter-
disciplinary curriculum. A pilot
program of the new opportunity
will begin in fall 2009.
KellyMaxwell, co-directorofthe
Program on Intergroup Relations,
said the new community is part of
the University's push for greater
emphasis on the impact of global-
ization in the LSA curriculum.

"As the world opens up, and we
have a greater need to identify with
and understand people from all
over the world, we want an empha-
sis that people would get that per-
spective," she said.
She said the program was cre-
ated with the mission of creating
world citizens.
"I think President Obama this
week in his inaugural address out-
lined a new relationship the U.S. is
having with the world, should have
with the world," Maxwell said.
"Global Scholars is coming at an
opportune time."
Unlike other living-learning
communities, which only accept
See COMMUNITY, Page 7

Ki
A
Wi
r

ang, who bid for of the Obama administration in his
capacity as special assistant to the
2 City Council, president.
Kang's new
ll be president's position, with
duties simi- y
ight-hand man lar to those
of a personal
By JASMINE ZHU secretary,
Daily StaffReporter plages him in
-- - - - ~ the Execu- _
iversity alum and Ann Arbor tive Office of KANG
Eugene Kang has come a the President,
way since his unsuccessful which consists
ainst City Council member of staff who have direct contact
en Rapundalo (D-Ward 2) with the president. As the special
ity Council seat in 2005 as a assistant, Kang is titled as a third-
r-old undergraduate. level senior staff member.
w 24, Kang has been noted as Paul Dimond, a former special
f the most unlikely members assistant on economic policy to

then-President Bill Clinton said
that Kang's position in the new
administration means he'll be
side-by-side with President Barack
Obama during most of his daily
activities.
"He's the guy who's always
around him,' Dimond said. "He
does whatever the president wants
him to do."
Dimond, now chairman of the
board for McKinley, Inc. and an
attorney with Miller Canfield,
a law firm, said he was excited
to learn of Kang's role as one of
Obama's youngest and closest
advisers.
"It's about luck and seizing an
opportunity," Dimond said. "I
See KANG, Page 7

Uni
native
long
bid ag
Steph
for a C
21-yea
No'
one of


WEATHER HI: 23
TOMORROW LO

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news(usmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Top 5 former Wolverines in the Super Bowl.
THEGAME.RIOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS.......
Vol. CXIX, No. 81 SUDOKU..
(2009The Michigan Daily OPINION...
eichigonduilycow

................ 2 ARTS.. . . ..S......5
...............3 CLASSIFIEDS. . .......:...6
................4 SPORTTS........ ............. 8



.cW°

4

2 - Tuesday, January 27, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters Explained

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

1ASPRIT SINGH, YOGA ExibElReNEUR
A professor gets f'lexible

On State Street, above a flight
of creaky stairs over Mr. Greek's
Coney Island, is a room covered
entirely in brightly colored mats.
Rows of ropes are suspended on
bars along the ceiling, and exotic
music thrums in the background.
A man in a cherry red bandana
and black stirrup leggings chants
instructions to a young woman
who is stretching her legs at an
almost impossible angle.
The instructor, Jasprit Singh, is
a professor of electrical engineer-
ing and computer science at the
University - and happens to be a
fiercely devout yoga enthusiast.
Singh said that his yoga sessions
relieve stress from his life in aca-
demia.
"This keeps me centered," he
said.
Singh's long history with yoga
can be traced back 50 years to his
father, a yogi who instructed his

son to practice yoga at least one to
one-and-a-half hours every day.
Singh took his father's instructions
to heart and continued to study
yoga after leaving India to study at
the University of Chicago in 1975.
Singh started teaching at the
University in 1985. Throughout his
professional career, he has contin-
ued to study yoga on a daily basis.
Five years ago, Singh formed a
yoga studio of his own. He devel-
oped the concept of RussaYog,
which is unique from other yoga
practices because it uses ropes in
the stretches.
Singh's yoga studio draws a wide
variety of students.
During one session last week,
two 14-year-old twin boys accom-
panied their mother to a session,
while several female college stu-
dents stood together in a cluster.
A couple of middle-aged men were
also in attendance.

Singh attributes the diverse crowd
to the studio's accessible style.
"It's an easy style to learn,"
Singh said. "The rope becomes
your partner. It's like doing a duet
with the rope."
During the yoga session, Singh
demonstrates every stretch in
the front of the class. His voice is
soothing as he repeats the mantra,
"Look inward. Draw your mind
inward," throughout the duration
of the class.
The class staggered out after
the session. Many of the partici-
pants were regulars, who will be
back in the following weeks. Some
were newcomers, intrigued by the
notion of yoga with ropes.
"We get newcomers all the
time," Singh said. "Ann Arbor is a
mobile city. Students come in and
out. Over 1,000 people have tried
(it)." said.
JASMINE ZHU

lasprit Singh, an instructor at the Ann Arbor Russa Yoga Studio
on State Street, performs poses using his unique rope technique.
MORE ONLINE
For a video of thisoweek's campus character, check out
michigandaily.com.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-647-336734-764-0558
gracatmichigandaitycom bogti@miehigaedaitycem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips ene@m~ichigandaitp.com
torrections correcrions@o ichigandaityuco
Lettersto the Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.con
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0554
ClassifiedSales classified@michigandaily.com
734-764-05s7
OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZ ManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaity.com
SENIO NEWEEDITORS ilanBermanTreor CaleoCJuieRoweidySevens
uSSISANTsoNS EDInORSCsMattsArsn,Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlir Schneider
Jenna Skoer Kyle Swanson
RobertSoave EditorialtPageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlahertyRachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid ManagingtSports Editor reid@michigandaily.eom
SENIORSPORTSEDITORS:NicoleAuVrbach,MikeEisenstein, DanFeldman,Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jasor Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
ulex r, ri,aCot Rosernwig
DaidWalnick MtagingrtsEditor wanick@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo michigandailycom
tlif Reeder ManagingPhotpEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins,Chris Dzombak,RobMigrin,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
MaureenStych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaiy.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertising salesManager
DIP A D ERISIlNG ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newn, rhisie Pillips
Ryan Businski classified sales Manager
ClassifiedSales Assistant Manager:AlisonnThomas
Marissa Gerber OnlineSales Manager
Ben English Production DesignsManager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichiganDaily(ISSN0745-967)ispublishedMondaythroughFridayduringthefallandwinter
termsby studentsat theUniversityofMichigan.one opy isavailablefreeof charge toalreaders
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDaly'soffiefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
SeptemberviaUS.smailare$110.intertermanuarythrough Aprils$11syearlong(September
throughAprilis $19.University affiliates areusubject toa reduced subscription rate. On-campus
susciptnio"rltrmre$3.Subscriptonsmutbeprepaid.TheMichiganDailyisamemberof
TheAssoatedPressand TheAsoated Colleiate Pres.

4

4

4

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Apple keyboard Man refuses to Free ballroom. Psychology film
stolen provide ID to dancing class on screening
WHERE: Cyber Lounge, Mich- hospital staff North Campus WHAT: A documentary on.
the "bi d-s bsyoa,'nsn deyn"a


igan League
WHEN: Sundayat about 1:00
p.m.
WHAT: An Apple iMac
keyboard was stolen, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
keyboard was valued at $50.
Police have no suspects.
Man walks into
parked car
WHERE: Shapiro Undergradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:45
p.m.
WHAT: A male subject
walked into a parked Univer-
sity van, University Police
reported. The incident caused
the side-view mirror to break.
The pedestrian said that he
was not injured and left the
scene.

WHERE: University Hospital
emergency room
WHEN: Sunday at about 9:30
a.m.
WHAT: An unidentified man
refused to provide identifica-
tion to hospital security, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
subject leftthedhospital before
officers arrived.
iPod transmitter
stolen from car
WHERE: 1311 Beal
WHEN: Between 4:00 p.m.
Sundayand 10:30 a.m. Monday
WHAT: An AM/FM tras-
mitter for an iPod Nano was
stolen from a car, University
Police reported. There were no
signs of entry. Police have no
suspects

WHAT: A free lesson on ball-
room dancingtaught by the
University's ballroom dancing
club
WHO: University Unions Arts
and programs_
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Leonardo's, Pier-
pont Commons
Arts Break in
the Union
WHAT: An arts and crafts
session with all materials
and supplies provided at no
charge
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 8p.m.
to 11 p.m.
WHERE: Ground floor,
Michigan Union

the nue eyea/ orown eyea
diversity experiment.
WHO: University Libraries
WHEN:Tomorrowfrom noon
to 1:45 p.m.
WHERE: The gallery in room
100, Hatcher Graduate Library

Today is the drop/add
deadline for regular term
classes. This is the last day
to withdraw from the term
with the assessment of regis-
tration and disenrollment fees
only. Access to web registra-
tion for the winter terms ends
at midnight.
The Ann Arbor City
Cousnclpassed an ordi-

4

CORRECTIONS . nance that gives property
. An article in Monday's owners a maximum of nine
edition of the Daily (Ex-'U' days to remove graffiti from
atudent caught in sex sting) their property.
misidentified which agency FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
handled a prostitution inves-
tigation. The Department of
Public Safety led the sting.
" A photo in Monday's edi- AwomaninDenmarkcon-
tion of the Daily (A Brewing vinced abank o exchange
Education) misidentified the Monopoly money for
photographer. She works for 1,400 Danish kroner valued
the Associated Press at $240 last week. The woman
" Please report any error was arrested when she made
in the Daily to corrections@ a second attempt to exchange
michigandaily.com. 8,000 kroner.

4


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

4

WHAT DO
IHODES/MARSHALL/MITCHE1LL
SCHOLARS
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
Well, this guy became
president.

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

Palestinians clean up debris from a destroyed house in eastern Jebaliya, northern Gaza Strip, Monday, yesterday. Israel
launched its 22-day offensive to try to halt Hamas rocket fire on southern Israel.
UN increases role in Gaza

-2000

nne united States on America,1

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Koessler Room, Michigan League
Thursday, January 29, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons Center Room
Thursday, February 5, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union
To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

Repairs to 21,000
homes in Gaza
expected to top $2B '
JEBALIYA REFUGEE CAMP,
Gaza Strip (AP) - Crouching
against piled mattresses in a room
crammed with refugees, Bissan
Abu al-Eish focused on her home-
work, blocking out the relentless
shrieks of dozens of toddlers and
the stench of overflowing latrines.
"I'm so happy to be studying,"
said the 9-year-old girl, bent over
the new textbook she received this
weekend when classes resumed for
200,000 Gaza children at United
Nations facilities.
Beyond being schooled by the
U.N., Abu al-Eish and her seven
siblings eat the igency's food, wear
its clothing and now live in one of
its buildings after their own house
was leveled during Israeli bom-
bardments on Gaza.
Hamas may be politically in
charge of the Gaza Strip, but it's
to the U.N.'s relief agency that the
majority of the 1.4 million Gazans
turn for health care, garbage col-
lection, food assistance and just
about every other service usually
provided by a state.
With much of the territory dev-
astated by Israel's latest military
offensive, the agency's job is bound
to get even bigger.
Many expect the U.N.'s agency
for Palestinians to take the lead in

reconstruction, though its role is
currently limited to the refugee
camps that house more than 1 mil-
lion of Gaza's population. The U.N.
spearheadingefforts to rebuild Gaza
could open a door to international
donors, many of whom don't want
to give Hamas money because the
group doesn't recognize Israel and
is considered a terror organization
by the U.S. and European Union.
It is estimated that $2 billion is
needed to repair the 21,000 homes
damaged or destroyed, along with
factories and government build-
ings, in the three-week Israeli
attack to end Hamas' rocket-firing.
Fundraising has hardly begun, and
the question of how the money will
be funneled remains unanswered.
"We're delivering the services
of a state, until the state is estab-
lished," John Ging, the head of
Gaza operations for the U.N. Relief
and Works Agency, UNRWA, told
The Associated Press this week-
end.
At the same time, it must exist
side-by-side with Hamas' govern-
ment - and take care to maintain
its neutrality, which some Israelis
question.
In one classroom Saturday,
when UNRWA schools reopened,
a Palestinian teacher was filmed
asking children about their trauma
during the war. The unidentified
teacher then told the children that
Palestinians have to "wage war
against them (Israelis) until they
leave their land," and asked her

students, aged about 8, how they
should react.
Two children in the class sug-
gested hurling stones or rockets
back at Israel. "Okay," the teacher
said, apparently summing up her
class' position. "We throw rockets
at them, we throw stones at them,"
she said.
Ging said such behavior is "com-
pletely unacceptable," and will be
"dealt with in the most severest
of fashions." He said the teacher
would likely be removed once
identified. Teachers have been
fired from UNRWA in the past for
incitement.
Ging said that following the
latest war, which ended Jan. 17,
UNRWA briefed teachers - them-
selves often victims of the fighting
- on how to channel the children's
grief away from revenge and vio-
lence. In schools across the territo-
ry, teachers led students in games
to ease their trauma and encour-
aged them to talk about lost class-
mates to deal with their deaths.
"We're in a battle with extrem-
ismhereinGaza," saidGing, adding
that UNRWA schools aim to "guide
(children) to a civilized place."
Robert Blecher, the senior Mid-
dle-East analyst for the Wash-
ington-based International Crisis
Group think-tank, says UNRWA's
staff comes from a cross-section
of society and it's "logical that this
staff reflects the political spectrum
of Gaza, of which Hamas is obvi-
ously an important component."


P


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 - 3 1

NEWS BRIEFS Geithner sworn in as treasury secretary
NEW YORK son a ertr

Radar systems to
help pilots track
flocks of birds
Some of the nation's busiest
airports will soon begin testing
experimental radar systems de-
signed to track flocks of birds and
help pilots avoid the type of colli-
sion believed to have crippled a US
Airways jet nearly two weeks ago.
Proponents say air traffic con-
trollers could someday use the tech-
nology to delay takeoffs, reroute
flights before theyleave the ground,
and perhaps even radio warnings to
pilots to take evasive action.
The new technology uses a com-
bination of inexpensive marine ra-
dar antennas, much like the kind
used on fishing boats, and power-
ful computer software to monitor
birds as they gather and soar as far
as six miles away from an airport.
The dangers were illustrated
Jan. 15 when a US Airways jet lost
thrust in both engines after it ap-
parently smacked into a flock of
birds 90 seconds into a flight from
LaGuardia Airport. The pilotman-
aged to guide the plane to a belly
landing on the Hudson River, sav-
ing all 155 people aboard.
NEW YORK
Dow will not close
Rohm & Haas
buyout by deadline
Dow Chemical said it will not
close on its $15.4 billion buyout of
Rohm & Haas Co. by this week's
deadline, an announcement yes-
terday that was followed almost
immediately by a lawsuit from the
specialty chemicals maker.
The news sent shares of Rohm
& Haas Co. tumbling 13.2 percent,
or $8.72, to end at $57.10. Shares of
Dow Chemical Co. fell 7.6 percent,
or $1.09, to $13.24.
The Federal Trade Commission
signed off on the acquisition last
Friday, creating a Tuesday dead-
line for Dow to close the deal under
its agreement with Rohm & Haas.
Dow cited the global financial
crisis and the "stunning" decision
by a Kuwaiti state-owned petro-
chemical company to pull out of
a $17.4 billion joint venture with
Dow just days before the deal was
to close at 2008's end.
TRENTON, NJ.
Pfizer to buy rival
Wyeth, cause
8,000 job losses
Pfizer Inc., the world's largest
drugmaker, said yesterday it is
buying rival Wyeth for $68 billion
in a deal that will quickly boost
Pfizer's revenue and diversifica-
tion and -if it works as advertised
- help the company become more
nimble.
The deal came as New York-
based Pfizer set out a full house
of issues: a 90 percent drop in
income, a hefty charge to end an
investigation, a severe cut in its
dividend, a shockingly low profit
forecast for 2009 and 8,000 job
cuts starting immediately.

That's all on top of the colossal
problem triggering this deal: the
expected loss of $13 billion a year
in revenue for cholesterol fighter
Lipitor starting in November 2011,
when it gets generic competition.
Pfizer also plans by 2011 to cut
about 8,190 jobs, 10 percent of
its workforce, as part of what it
expects will be a staff reduction
totaling15 percentofthecombined
companies' workers - implying a
total job loss of almost 20,000.
LANSING
Detroit Public
Schools financial
manager appointed
Gov. Jennifer Granholm has
appointed Robert Bobb as emer-
gency financial manager for the
Detroit Public Schools.
Bobb starts his one-year
appointment in mid-February and
assumes all financial authority in
the struggling district, including
overcoming a $113 million budget
deficit.
He's been city administrator
and deputy mayor for Washing-
ton. Bobb was elected in 2006 to a
two-year term as president of the
Washington Board of Education.
He's also an ex-city manager in
Kalamazoo; Oakland, California;
Richmond, Virginia.; and Santa
Ana, California.
Michigan schools chief Mike
Flanagan has said Detroit's schools
are in a financial emergency.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

4v v

Confirmation was
opposed by a third of
the Senate chamber
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
Senate yesterday confirmed New
York Federal Reserve Bank chief
Timothy Geithner as President
Barack Obama's treasury secretary
despite tax problems that might
have sunk his nomination in less
desperate times.
The 60-34 vote, in which hand-
fuls of Republicans and Democrats
voted against their party lead-
ers, put Geithner at the helm of
Obama's economic team as it races
to halt the worst financial slide in
generations.
In swift order reflecting the
urgency, Obama was expected
to attend Geithner's swearing in
yesterday evening at the Treasury
Department. White House spokes-
man Robert Gibbs said Geithner

has made amends - he has paid
the taxes and penalties - and pos-
sesses the talent the nation needs
to steer the nation out of the crisis.
Geithner, 47, served as under-
secretary of the treasury for inter-
national affairs during the Clinton
administration. As president of the
New York Federal Reserve Bank,
he's been a key player in the gov-
ernment's response to collaps-
ing financial institutions and the
housing and credit markets since
last summer.
The ambivalence dogging law-
makers was reflected in the fact
that a third of the chamber voted
against Geithner, in large part
because of his failure to pay all
his taxes on income received from
the International Monetary Fund
in 2001 and in three subsequent
years.
Ten Republicans overlooked
that matter and voted for con-
firmation. One Republican, Sen.
Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, told

reporters earlier in the day that he
would vote yes, only to change his
mind and vote no.
Three Democrats and one inde-
pendent voted against Geithner's
confirmation, including Sen. Rob-
ert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., the longest-
serving senator in history.
For the prevailing majority, the
real reason for Geithner's likely
confirmation appears to be less a
matter of bipartisan cooperation
than political survival. Lawmak-
ers of all stripes are eager toset the
economy in the right direction long
before voters judge their progress
in the 2010 midterm elections.
"People make mistakes and
commit oversights," said Sen.
Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. "Even the
most intelligent and gifted - two
adjectives that certainly apply to
Mr. Geithner - make errors in
their financial dealings."
Even so, not everyone was con-
vinced that the need for a speedy
confirmation should trump con-

cerns about the candidate. Sen.
Susan Collins, R-Maine, didn't
buy Geithner's contention that he
skipped payingsome taxes because
he was confused by the complexi-
ties of the tax code.
"They were described by the
nominee himself as 'careless mis-
takes,"' Collins said in prepared
remarks. "It has become clear to
me that this is not merely amatter
of complexity leading to mistakes,
but of inexcusable negligence."
Sen. Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., agreed
and noted that his is one of the few
voices of dissent.
"Nominees for positions that do
not oversee taxreporting and collec-
tion have been forced to withdraw
their nomination for more minor
offenses. They have been ridden out
of town on a verbal rail," Enzi told
the Senate. "The fact that we're in a
global economic crisis is not a reason
to overlook these errors."
"The Senate," he scolded, "is
not supposed to be a group of 'yes'

men."
It wasn't. Democratic Sen. Tom
Harkin of Iowa lined up against
the nominee, asking how someone
of Geithner's "financial sophistica-
tion" could innocently not pay the
taxes and then head up the agency
that oversees the IRS.
"How can Mr. Geithner speak
with any credibility or authority?"
Harkin said.
The Senate Finance Committee
approved Geithner's confirmation
in an 18-5 vote last week. However
ambivalent, some Senate Republi-
cans were supporting him. Specter,
for example, said he's not happy
that Geithner didn't pay up all of
the $42,702 in back taxes and inter-
est until after he was nominated to
become treasury secretary.
As such, Geithner will be direct-
ing the nation's economic recov-
ery from the worst financial crisis
in three generations, a task that
could define the first two years of
Obama's term.

As recession
deepens, more
workers laid off

President Barack Obama signs an executive order dealing with energy independence and climate change yesterday in the
East Room of the White House. At right is EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson andTransportation Secretary Ray LaHood, left.
Green car rules give auto
industry a new challenge

Obama signed two
executive orders
to improve auto
energy-efficiency
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama wants automak-
ers to make greener cars at a time
when General Motors and Chrysler
are hanging by the thread of a mas-
sive government loan and auto sales
have plummeted to their lowest lev-
els in more than two decades.
Obama's plans could bring
smaller cars, more hybrids and
advanced fuel-saving technolo-
gies to showrooms, but car shop-
pers will probably pay more
upfront because the new rules are
expected to cost the hamstrung
industry billions of dollars.
"The consumer needs to under-
stand that they will see significant
increases in the cost of vehicles,"
said Rebecca Lindland, an auto
analyst for the consulting firm IHS
Global Insight. Her firm estimated

the upgrades could add $2,000 to
$10,000 to the price of a vehicle.
Obama yesterday directed the
Environmental ProtectionAgency
to review whether California and
more than a dozen states should
be allowed to impose tougher auto
emission standards on carmakers
to fight greenhouse gas emissions.
The Bush administration had
blocked the efforts by the states,
which account for about half of
the nation's auto sales.
The new president also said his
administration would issue new
fuel-efficiency requirements to
cover 2011 model year vehicles.
The rules would be the first step
toward a 2007 energy law that
requires the auto industry toboost
efficiency by 40 percent to at least
35 miles per gallon by 2020.
Obama set in motion a new reg-
ulatory process at a time when the
nation is coping with an economic
recession and auto sales have
fallen to their lowest pace since
1982. Underscoring the hardships,
GM said yesterday it would slash
2,000 jobs at plants in Michigan

and Ohio.
In December, the Bush admin-
istration signed off on $17.4 bil-
lion in loans to General Motors
Corp. and Chrysler LLC to keep
the companies afloat. The auto-
makers are undertaking intense
efforts to restructure this spring
or face potential bankruptcy.
David Cole, chairman of the
Center for Automotive Research
in Ann Arbor, Mich., said he
doesn't believe the EPA will
approve all the waivers asked for
by the states. To do so would be
economically unworkable.
"If the industry is in total
shambles, you can have any
regulation you want - it's not
doable," he said.
Cole said the additional
regulations would have to be
implemented "in a way that's
achievable in the industry."
Environmental organizations
said Obama's approach would
help the companies in the long
term, forcing them to produce
fuel-efficient cars coveted by
more consumers.

Economists predict
a net loss of at least
2 million jobs
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
recessioniskillingjobsatanalarm-
ing pace, with tens of thousands of
new layoffs announced yesterday
by some of the biggest names in
American business - Pfizer, Cat-
erpillar and Home Depot.
More pink slips, pay freezes and
other hits are expected to slam
workers in the months ahead as
companies desperately look for
ways to survive.
"We're just seeing the tip of the
iceberg-the bigfirms,"saidgRebec-
ca Braeu, economist at John Han-
cock Financial Services. "There's
certainly other firms beneath them
that will lay off workers as quickly
or even quicker."
Lookingahead, economists pre-
dicted a net loss.of at least 2 million
jobs - possibly more - this year
even if President Barack Obama's
$825 billion package of increased
government spending and tax cuts
is enacted. Last year, the economy
lost a net 2.6 million jobs, the most
since 1945, though the labor force
has grown significantly since then.
The unemployment rate, now at
a 16-year high of 7.2 percent, could
hit 10 percent or higher later this
year or early next year, under some
analysts' projections.
Obama called on Congress
yesterday to speedily enact his
recovery plan, warning that the
nation can't afford "distractions"
or "delays."
With the recession expected to
drag on through much of this year,
more damage will be inflicted on
both companies and workers.
The mounting toll was visible
yesterday as roughly 40,000 more

U.S. workers got the grim news.
Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer
Inc., which is buying rival drug-
maker Wyeth in a $68 billion deal,
and Sprint Nextel Corp., the coun-
try's third-largest wireless provid-
er, said they each will slash 8,000
jobs. I
Home Depot Inc., the biggest
home improvement retailer in the
U.S., will get rid of 7,000 jobs, and
General Motors Corp. said it will
cut 2,000 jobs at plants in Michigan
and Ohio because of slow sales.
"We are seeing no improvement
in labor market conditions," said
Sal Guatieri, senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets Economics.
"This year could be as-bad as last
year in terms of layoffs."
In response to deteriorating
business conditions, Caterpillar
Inc., the world's largest maker of
mining and construction equip-
ment, disclosed nearly 20,000 job
cuts, most of which already have
been made. They include 5,000
new layoffs of white collar work-
ers, which will occur globally by
the end of March.
Earlier actions included the
elimination of 2,500 Caterpillar
workers through a buyout offer
announced in December, the ter-
mination of about 8,000 contract
and temp agency workers, and the
reduction of 4,000 full-time fac-
tory workers through firings and
buyouts.
Texas Instruments Inc., which
makes chips for cell phones and
other gadgets, will cut 3,400 jobs
due to slumping demand. The Dal-
las-based company said yesterday
it will slash 12 percent of its work
force - 1,800 jobs through layoffs
and another 1,600 through volun-
tary retirements and departures.
And Brooks Automation Inc.
said it plans to get rid of 350 jobs,
or 20 percent of its work force.

Blagojevich boycotts trial
to appear on talk shows

Tuesdays Are South O The Border
Corona/Dos Equis Specials All Night
$2 'reqi4f S nrieA k- Vod rinff
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
ia or Bomb S oclals 10 to close
310AMyWd St. 1J4.99.O1OO LoteddNt to tA#e1ay#wd Lw4i Sitketwe
p.-...

Il.l governor said
inflammatory
remarks were taken
out of context
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) -
Gov. Rod Blagojevich's impeach-
ment trial opened yesterday
with a vacant chair reserved for
the governor, who boycotted the
proceedings and instead spent
the day on the TV talk-show cir-
cuit in New York, complaining
he is being railroaded.
"The fix is in," Blagojevich
declared on ABC's "Good Morn-
ingnAmerica."
As the Illinois Senate assem-
bled for the first impeachment
trial of a U.S. governor in more
than 20 years, David Ellis, the
House-appointed prosecutor,
told the chamber that he will
show that Blagojevich "repeat-
edly and utterly abused the pow-
ers and privileges of his office."
In one of his first orders of
business, Ellis won approval from
the Senate to summon as a wit-
ness an FBI agent who oversaw

the profanity-laden wiretaps that
led to Blagojevich's arrest on cor-
ruption charges last month.
With Blagojevich refusing to
present a defense, Illinois sena-
tors could vote within days on
whether to oust the 52-year-old
Democrat on a variety of charges,
including allegations he tried to
sell the U.S. Senate seat left vacant
by President Barack Obama.
State senators maintained
the trial will be fair, despite
Blagojevich's attacks on the
process.
"We all took an oath to do jus-
tice according to the law. I know
that everyone is taking the mat-
ter seriously and that no one will
stand in the way of justice," said
Senate Minority Leader Chris-
tine Radogno, a Republican.
In live appearances yesterday
on "Good Morning America"
and "The View," Blagojevich
said some of his most inflamma-
tory remarks from the wiretaps
had been taken out of context.
But when pressed, he would not
elaborate, and he insisted he had
done nothing illegal.
"I'm here in New York because
I can't get a fair hearing in Illi-

nois," Blagojevich said between
TV appearances.
NBC's "Today" aired a taped
interview with Blagojevich. He
was also scheduled to appear
on "Larry King Live" and ABC's
"Nightline" on yesterday night
and on CBS' "The Early Show"
on Tuesday.
The impeachment trial opened
with the presiding judge, Illi-
nois Supreme Court Chief Jus-
tice Thomas Fitzgerald, telling
senators: "This is a solemn and
serious business we're about to
engage in."
When Fitzgerald asked
whether the governor was pres-
ent, there was a long silence. The
seats set aside for Blagojevich
and his attorney were vacant.
Fitzgerald ordered the pro-
ceedings to continue as if
Blagojevich had entered a plea of
not guilty.
No other Illinois governor has
ever been impeached, let alone
convicted in a Senate trial. It
would take a two-thirds majori-
ty - or 40 of the 59 senators - to
remove Blagojevich. The Senate
also could bar him from ever
again holding office in Illinois.


4

4 - Tuesday, January 27, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

74L e lWc4t'gan wily

IL

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
AVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA ROBERT SO
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Drawing the line
City's new anti-graffiti ordinance unfairly targets victims
ndicating that it is going to take a hard line against local
vandalism, the Ann Arbor City Council passed an anti-graf-
fiti ordinance last week. But the surprising thing about this
ordinance is that it doesn't target those who spray paint buildings
with graffiti - instead, it punishes the owners of those buildings.
This new ordinance is an ill-conceived method of dealing with
city crime - punishing property owners is an unfair tactic that
does nothing to confront the real culprits, graffiti artists. Graf-
fiti isn't even a major problem for the city, and this policy is an
unnecessary approach to dealing with it.

At its meeting on Jan. 19, the City Coun-
cil passed an anti-graffiti ordinance that
requires property owners to clean up the
graffiti on their property or risk being
charged a fee. The ordinance, which will
take effect in 90 days, gives property own-
ers a time limit for removing the graffiti -
seven days if the removal notice is given to
them directly and nine days if the notice
is mailed. The city of Ann Arbor will then
remove the graffiti if the property owner
does not comply and the owner' will be
charged the bill for the removal service.
This ordinance is a revision to an earlier
draft, which included a stricter timeframe
and a heftier fine. In the original proposal,
property owners would have been given
two to four days to clean the graffiti or risk
paying a fine of up to $500.
Proponents of the policy argue that
property owners should be forced to clean
up graffiti because it detracts from the
city's image and encourages more painting
on surrounding buildings. By mandating
quick cleanups for graffiti, the ordinance
aims to beautify the city while eradicating
vandalism.
These may be admirable goals, but it just
isn't clear that this law is necessary, given
that graffiti just doesn't really seem to be
a major problem facing the city. After all,
graffiti simply isn't widespread in Ann
Arbor. But even if local occurrences ofgraf-
fiti truly did constitute an epidemic, this
plan for dealing with it is deeply flawed.

Under the new policy, property own-
ers are expected to spend their money,
time and effort cleaning up an act of van-
dalism that was not their fault in the first
place. Punishing property owners isn't the
right way to fight graffiti. And it's unfair.
Property owners are the victims, and they
shouldn't be held responsible for these
crimes. There maybe good reasons for why
property owners wouldn't decide to clean
up the graffiti on their own - they could
be on vacation, unable to afford it or simply
unwilling to clean it up. The city hasn't jus-
tified requiring the owners to pay for the
damage done to their buildings.
If the council is so concerned about
graffiti in Ann Arbor, it should construct
a policy that actually addresses the prob-
lem. Punishing the victims of graffiti does
not deter future crime. City Council should
find a way to go after the perpetrators, not
the victims, if it wants to decrease graffiti.
Ultimately, the city's anti-graffiti ordi-
nance is both misguided and unnecessary.
Even if graffiti was a widespread problem,
the people who commit acts of vandalism
are the ones who should be held responsi-
ble for it. By punishing victims, the city is
only adding insult to injury and assigning
blame to the wrong party. This ordinance
should be replaced with a more reason-
able policy that respects the rights and
interests of the city's property owners and
actually takes a meaningful stand against
graffiti.

Had I known somebody was listening, I
wouldn't have used language like that."
- Rod Blagojevich, responding to a question on the television show "The View" about his
use of foul language in recorded phone calls, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ELAINE MORTON ( T E C E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
Wkt do uWAeith
0
} r be hen rI Bloodmuscle.
Breeding entitlement
was perusing MSNBC last Fri- The final version that was eventually lights incertain campus areas. Every
day when I stumbled across an passed by the assembly expressed election cycle, students are promised
Associated Press article (Wall regret for the loss of life in Gaza and that MSA will be listening to their
Street's entitle- called for the American Movement concerns and addressing them. MSA
ment culture hard for Israel and Students Allied for is supposed to be our voice to the Uni-
to shake, 01/23/09). Freedom and Equality to show a doc- versity on tuition, health care, hous-
The basic point umentary about six Jewish women ing and a host of other issues.
of the article and six Arabic women who come MSA members may protest being
was that CEOs of together peacefully. considered part of a culture of enti-
banks and other There are those who believe that tlement, but the evidence is against
executives on Wall MSA's resolution did not go far them. For the ultimate example, look
Street have been enough, and that the assembly should
making too much ROBERT takestrongerstances onthisissue and
money for too long other such international crises. But
a time. Even as the SOAVE these people need to understand that A closer look at
nation's economy fanciful resolutions calling for the
spiraled downward end to wars that MSA has no influence w hat s wrong
and their companies began tanking, over are a waste of time. Eight dollars
many of these executives refused to of every student's tuition goes to MSA w ith MSA.
take salary cuts or scale back their so that its members can administer
luxurious lifestyles. The problem, the to student's immediate needs, not so
article insists, is: "a deeply ingrained that they can pretend to be ambassa-
culture of entitlement at financial dors to the United Nations. no further than MSA's website. The
companies." MSA's continuing disregard for last project that the website lists as
This had me thinking about how students' wishes is evidence that the being completed is Michael Moore's
a culture of entitlement develops. assembly subscribes to a culture of visit in September of 2004. The
Feeling entitled means you think you entitlement. website lists the minutes of meet-
deserve something simply by virtue Though they may not be award- ings up until fall of 2008, when even
of being you, and a culture of entitle- ing themselves lucrative salaries like this information runs out. So even if
ment is one where everyone who is Wall Street CEOs, they have awarded MSA was accomplishing things that
part of the gang automatically feels themselves the right to ignore their students care about, they wouldn't
like they deserve something, too. But actual jobs. They don't feel the need have a way to check and see what the
when did these powerful people start to work on student issues, they don't assembly was doing. The fact that
feeling entitled as a group? care to explain themselves, and they MSA presidential candidates have
As I was pondering this, I started don't feel a responsibility to uphold been promising to fix this website
thinking that maybe the culture of any of the promises they make to for years is proof that they think they
entitlement starts earlier for these their constituents. never have to.
people. And then, as I reflected on We elected these representatives How long does this go on before we
the actions of the Michigan Student to accomplish a job. Only nine per- have to stop questioning the actions
Assembly, I realized that there is a cent of the student body voted, and of MSA representatives and start
similar culture of entitlement sur- we didn't realistically have a diverse questioning MSA as an institution? If
rounding the University's own stu- selection of candidates because of the the assembly is not serving the needs
dent government. Michigan Action Party's dominance of students and is instead acting as
Most students on campus should in MSA, but MSA's current represen- a breeding ground for a lifetime of
by now be familiar with MSA's his- tatives were still hired by us. In the entitlement, when do we say enough?
tory of not accomplishing anything same sense, they should work for us The federal government is now
that its representatives promise to do and feel accountable to us. punishing Wall Street CEOs for their
when they are running for election. If they did feel accountable, they reckless careers. When and how will
Most students should also be aware would have to spend time handling we do the same to MSA?
of what MSA has been up to lately: our issues - and there are plenty for
many hours of their January 13 and them to address. Every election cycle, Robert Soave is the Daily's
21 meetings were dedicated to debat- students are promised thatsomething editorial page editor. He can be
ing a resolution on the crisis in Gaza. will be done about the lack of street- reached at soave@umich.edu.


4

4

4

4

4

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
EMILY BARTON | V I
Homegrown innovation

Picture your basement or garage. Picture
your high school science lab. Now merge the
two scenarios, but without the image.of your
teacher leaning over and explaining how to use
a Bunsen burner. According to an article pub-
lished last month by the Associated Press, peo-
ple around the country are conducting their
own amateur genetic research in an effort to
better understand the field and come up with
ways to bring the science community closer
to finding cures. In Massachusetts, a group of
amateur researchers is collaborating in a com-
munity lab, complete with a freezer bought
from Craigslist, that will keep bacteria alive.
Other individuals are purchasing lab equip-
ment to set up in their kitchens or garages.
Tinkering in the science and engineering
fields is not unknown - as the article pointed
out, Apple and Google both began in a garage.
Even though many of these amateurs have
undergraduate biology degrees, most don't
have the qualifications required to work in
actual research labs.
The thought that anyone with enough curi-
osity could potentially cure Parkinson's or find
a vaccination for juvenile diabetes is an encour-
aging one. Such widespread research will allow
more people to find science accessible and
allow people without monetary constraints to
do research for the sake of research.
But critics are afraid that the implications of
an experiment gone wrong could result in the
spread of disease or other biohazards. Before
the stem cell ballot initiative allowing Michi-

gan scientists to derive their own embryonic
stem cell lines passed in November, critics of
the proposal claimed the ballot language was
too ambiguous and did not provide enough reg-
ulations. They were right to raise the issue: part
of the initiative says no state laws can restrict
stem cell research and the resulting therapies.
Even though critics have a valid concern,
it's not legitimate enough to shut down these
amateur geneticist labs. Genetic engineering
requires a lot of background knowledge just
to know where to begin, and I think it's safe to
assume that anyone interested in setting up a
garage laboratory would be interested enough
to take the time to understand what they are
doing. There's also the matter of purchasing
equipment and understanding how to use it.
While theoretically anyone could give it a try,
the thicker the amateur's wallet, the easier it is.
Will amateur experimentation result in a
cure for cancer? Who knows? But the more
people there are thinking about the problem
and looking at what is required to come up
with a solution, the better. And maybe it will
get more people interested in science and tech-
nology - people who might otherwise assume
they wouldn't have the time. Maybe someone
will see something that piques the interest of
someone else, who can then consult someone
else and voil: a new community fostering sci-
entific discovery.
- ------------ 
Emily Barton is an associate
editorial page editor.

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Gaza conflict has a reason to be MSA should stop wasting time on
included in MSA agenda irrelevant resolutions

TO THE DAILY:
It should be noted that the "blame" for the resolutions
concerning Gaza does not fall squarely with MSA but with
the students and community members who asked that these
resolutions be considered and passed. While purely local
concerns such as muggings and street lighting obviously
need to be (and are) discussed at MSA meetings, the idea
that MSA should not look beyond the boundaries of Ann
Arbor to international concerns is nonsensical.
On our diverse campus, many students have been affect-
ed by the Gaza conflict, and their concerns should certainly
not be ignored. Richard Kallus and Jeremy Borovitz wrote
in last Wednesday's Letter to the Editor (MSA should spend
time on more relevant issues, 01/22/2009). "We realize the
situation in Gaza and Israel affects students on this campus
emotionally and that many have family and friends in the
region, but MSA representatives were elected to deal with
campus issues, not international ones." But it is contradic-
tory to admit that the issue affects many members of our
campus and then to say that it must not be a campus issue.
My mind is boggled by the idea that after students stood
before the assembly and stated the impact that the Gaza
conflict has had on them and asked for MSA to take some
action, several MSA representatives were still somehow able
to assert that the issue was not a student concern and-that
they should be discussing things like lighting and Dance
Marathon instead.
What, then, is the definition of a "student concern"?
Should MSA only be permitted to address issues that don't
extend beyond the borders of Ann Arbor, no matter how
students might be affected by it? We should realize that the
word "international" implies "broad in scope" as opposed to
"out of our scope" and that the more our students are affect-
ed by an issue, the more - not less - MSA should do to sup-
port them and address that issue.
Malvika Deshmukh
LSA junior

TO THE DAILY:
Hamdan Yousuf's impassioned defense of the MSA
resolution on the Gaza conflict (Standing up to injustice in
Gaza, 01/26/2009) demonstrated a fundamental misun-
derstanding between Yousuf and detractors of such reso-
lutions. Yousuf repeatedly claims that the humanitarian
crisis in Gaza is a relevant issue to University students. I
don't think anyone would disagree with that claim. Then,
after several lines of unnecessary rhetoric, he states that
the University's history of social activism and protest
demands that we not be "deaf to the pleas of suffering
Gazans." Again, this was not the point being contested by
detractors of MSA's decision. The issue in contention is
not the relevance of the Gaza conflict to the student body:
it is the relevance of MSA, as an organization, to the con-
flict in the Middle East.
I have not read MSA's resolution. No one I know has
read MSA's resolution. It will not cross the desks of Ban
Ki Moon or Barack Obama. I doubt even Mary Sue Cole-
man will look at it. MSA is not an authority on Middle
East conflicts, nor is it a moral or intellectual authority
on campus or elsewhere. It is puzzling why MSA believes
its mandate includes drafting resolutions on complex
global conflicts. Certainly, when MSA election time rolls
around, no one is campaigning on issues of social justice
or global poverty. The only things that are ever promised
during elections are cheaper book prices and better light-
ing around campus. As far as I can tell, there hasn't been
dramatic progress on either front.
So, instead of wastingtime and energy with resolutions
that have no real or even symbolic impact, please consid-
er justifying the destruction of countless forests for your
endless neon campaign flyers by focusing on problems
which are within the scope and jurisdiction of a univer-
sity student government.
Matthew Brunner
LSA senior

4

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 - 5

Shuffling
through my past

hen you put your iPod
on shuffle and "Come
on Eileen" by Dexys
Midnight Run-
ners is the first .
song to play,
you know the
iPod gods have a
sense of humor.
I've been
doing a lot of
this sort of thing JOSH
lately. Putting my &yjgg
iPod on shuffle,
that is. There's such a swamp-load
of music on that beast (74.3 giga-
bytes, to be exact) that sometimes
I don't even know what to listen to.
So I leave my fate to technology.
And, with alarming frequency, I feel
like there's a little oumpa Loompa
in there who knows exactly what
I want. There's a sort of blissful
dream logic in hearing "Venus in
Furs" by The Velvet Underground
sandwiched in between songs by
the Pixies and Interpol. It can really
give you a slice of "the big picture"
of music history (i.e. - who has
influenced who and all that music
geek wet dream hullabaloo). It can
also be like going to a rummage
sale. My iPod has so much random
music on it that various friends have
passed down tome over the years,
a huge chunk of which I've never
even listened to. So the "shuffle"
tactic can be a good getting-to-
know-you exercise.
But there's also a spiny flipside
to shuffling things up a bit. Some-
times songs from my childhood
will begin playing, and I'll realize
that they used to be so magical, but
I've completely outgrown them.
Hearing the old tunes through an
adult set of ears can make me wish
I'd left my shiny memories of them
untouched and unblemished.
The offspring was my favorite
band from kindergarten to about
10th grade. I saw the group live
four or five times, and each time I
was in absolute heaven. So it goes
without saying that I have some
pretty fond memories of those So-
Cal pranksters. But hearing them
now, I can barely stomach them. I
want so badly to listen to "Original
Prankster" and bask in warm nos-
talgia, but it just won't compute. It
sounds like Kidz Bop to me now.
The same thing happens when
I listen to the Red Hot Chili Pep-
pers. They snatched the title of
"Josh's Favorite Band" from The
Offspring during my junior year of
high school and held it until Radio-
head bested them during my senior
year (which is when everything
changed, by the way). But now that
I'm all growed-up with my left-
field music tastes and existential
crises, I can't help but perceive the
Chilis as a bit juvenile and bland,
even if they're very talented musi-
cians. But part of me still wishes

I could still go doe-eyed and gaga
over lyrics like "you try to be a
lady, but you're walking likea sau-
erkraut."
Revisiting these old flames and
not enjoying their company any-
more makes me feel a bit like a coal-
hearted Scrooge, steamrolling over
his past with an elitist lawnmower.
This is probably just me being
cynically overdramatic, because
there are just as many songs from
my youth that'll pop up on shuffle
and sound even better now than
they did years ago. These are the
real zingers. Just the other day,
when "Razor Boy" by Steely Dan
randomly came swelling in hi-fi out
of my speakers, it was like a double
shot of nostalgia. I wasn't sure if
I wanted to go sit in the corner of
my apartment, cry and reminisce
about my senior year of high school
or happy-dance around the living
room. In reality, I didn't wind up
doingeither. ButI felt really, really
great regardless.
And something happened a
couple of days ago that made me
feel significantly less Grinch-like.
My 12-year-old sister told me she
The iPod gods
have a sense
of humor.
wanted me to hear her favorite
song. I was bracing for a Natasha
Bedingfield-induced brain freeze.
But instead, I was whammed with
"Your Cover's Blown" by Belle and
Sebastian, my absolute favorite
song circa my summer before col-
lege. I had given it to her that sum-
mer when I'd commandeered her
iPod and filled it with music, but
I had never really expected her to
listen to it. And hearing it pump-
ing through her speakers like an
old friend who hasn't changed a
bit, aware that my little sister and
I share a favorite song, was exactly
the kind of heart-thawing experi-
ence I needed. Moments like that
really kick me in the ass.
So I guess the moral of the story
is this: Although my taste has cer-
tainly evolved and I'm not going
to like all the same music I did a
few years back, the past is not all
lost and there's a time and a place
for everything. Maybe when I'm
going through my mid-life crisis,
"Pretty Fly (For a White Guy)" will
be exactly what I need. But right
now, it isn't. And I suppose I'll just
have to deal with that and keep on
shuffling along.
Bayer actually listens to 'Kidz
Bop' when he's alone. Make fun
of him at jrbayer@umich.edu

"Baby we were born to receive AARP The Magazine."
A work in progress

The Boss's latest
is a mixed bag of
blue-collar hits and
uninspired songwriting
By DAVID RIVA
Daily Arts Writer
It's no secret that Bruce Springsteen is one
of the most distinguished
songwriters of the rock era.
In the past four decades, his
expansive musical catalog is Bruce
rivaled only by the likes of
Bob Dylan and Neil Young. Spiiigsteen
The Boss's most recent stu- Working on
dio output is evidence that a Dream
he feels he still has more
work to do. Even so, Working Columbia
on a Dream, his 16th studio&
release, is not among his finest.
The album has some outstanding individ-
ual songs, but as a whole it doesn't present a
compelling narrative with relatable charac-
ters, which was his winning formula on past
albums. The new album's themes are person-
al, but they lack a common purpose. Dream is
a nice departure from its over-produced and

overtly political predecessor, 2007's Magic,
but it fails to return Bruce to his glory days.
Springsteen touches on familiar subject
matter throughout the title track as he deliv-
ers his customary American working class
voice. Cheerful whistles between lines like
"Now the cards I've drawn's a rough hand /
darling I straighten my back / and I'm work-
ing on a dream," provide a refreshing take on .
often-revisited ground.
"Queen of the Supermarket" starts as a
beautiful piano ballad, but as the words take
shape, itbegs the question: How did a song this
ridiculous make it onto a Springsteen album?
There is no irony and no underlying metaphor
as the Boss croons over his newfound crush: a
girl in the grocery store.
Thankfully, Dream picks up and soars in a
number of spots, and musical clarity is para-'
mount to the success of the album's strongest
cuts. "Tomorrow Never Knows" chugs along
with its country-plucked acoustic guitar as
a complacent Springsteen croons about how
life's beauty is completely unpredictable.
"Tomorrow" is a new exercise for Bruce; he
uses his lyrical prowess to feebly describe
nature's beautiful simplicity, holding off any
mention of the material world until halfway
through the song. For that restraint, the blue-
collar Springsteen deserves some recognition.
"Life Itself" continues the mood of deep

reflection and contemplation. The lyrics, "why
do the things that connect us slowly pull us
apart / 'til we fall away in our own darkness
/ stranger to our own hearts," are among the
album's most stinging and potent lines. These
flashes of great wisdom represent a trend
of maturity running through Springsteen's
recent work. If Bruce in the '70s thrived on
impulse and wild youthful experience, the
Bruce Springsteen of the 21st century shines
brightest when contemplating life's tougher
questions.
"Good Eye" is a pleasant surprise as it fits
well in Dream's mixed bag of songs. On it,
Bruce submerges himself in the gut-churning
pulse of Delta blues while a whiny harmoni-
ca and Springsteen's gritty vocals display an
energized attitude reminiscent of his style on
1973's The Wild, the Innocent & the E Street
Shuffle.
The album comes packaged with a bonus
track, "The Wrestler," the theme song for the
new film of the same name. This underdog
anthem is one, of Springsteen's finest songs
in the past decade. Sparse instrumentation
allows Bruce's voice to take center stage as
he relies on pure emotion to produce a spine-
chilling effect. It's the kind of song that could
make a grown man cry. A stellar close to a
mediocre album, it's the perfect reminder of
why we call this man "The Boss."

P10 EV ARTS IN BRIEF
Lacking in true answers and true love FilmReview
A 'Hotel' of horrible ideas

By EMILY BOUDREAU
DailyArts Writer
"The Reader" was set for success.
It's headlined by
Ralph Fiennes
("The Duchess")
and Kate Winslet The Reader
("The Holiday")
and it has a script At the
adapted by Oscar- Michigan
nominated writer Theatre
David Hare ("The The Weisfein
Hours"). Also, it's Company
under the direc-
torial guidance
of Stephen Daldry, the man behind
"The Hours" and "Billy Elliot."
Regardless of its phenomenally tal-
ented cast and crew, somehow "The
Reader" falls a bit flat.
The film tells the life story of
lawyer Michael Berg (Fiennes) by
piecing together excerpts from sig-
nificant moments in his life. Begin-
ning in pre-World War II Berlin,
a young, sickly Michael (David
Kross, "Krabat") has a chance
encounter with a much older
woman, Hanna Schmitz (Wins-
let). Despite a visible awkward-
ness between the two, Michael
and Hanna start sleeping together,
and Michael reads to Hanna from
his schoolbooks during his visits.
The pair's relationship, as well as
their sex, isn't so much shocking
as it is tedious. There's no visible
chemistry or affection between
the two. Nonetheless, they share
a brief summer together until the
war begins and Hannah disap-
pears from Michael's life.
Fast-forwarding to over a decade

later, the film heats up when Michael
goes to law school to study the
Nuremburg trials. Hanna appears in
his life again, except this time she is
on trial for the crimes she commit-
ted asa prison guard in a concentra-
tion camp. The weighty questions
of justice in the courtroom provide
an interesting contrast to the oth-
erwise ethereal feel of the film. As
he tries to explain the issues of the
trial, Michael insists, "We are trying
to understand."
Yes, it certainly seems that way.
The past few months have seen the
releases of contrived Holocaust
movies like "The Boy in the Striped
Pajamas" and "Defiance." It appears
that audiences and directors are
all still trying to understand the
horrors of the Holocaust, and per-
Boring characters
have boring sex.
haps we never truly will if we rely
on these overdone Holocaust films
that offer little historical perspec-
tive and so few answers.
Amatterofmore pressingconcern
to the audience, however, should be
trying to understand why Hanna
has such a pull on Michael. The
film alternates choppily between
past- and present-day Michael and
the only element that continues to
connectthe two is Michael's contin-
ued obsession with Hanna. Yet their
relationship never seemed that pas-

sionate to begin with.
Hanna is a rather flat character,
though by no fault of Winslet, who
does an amazing job with what she
is given. It doesn't seem like there
was much room in the script for her
to expand her cinematic role.
Kross does a fine job as the
younger Michael Berg, although
it is not until halfway through the
movie that he actually begins deliv-
ering on his potential. As the older
Michael, Fiennes is acceptable, but
the role doesn't really let him dis-

tinguish himself.
The movie drags at times, espe-
cially in the present-day setting,
but there is enough material and
intrigue in the plot to keep the
audience's interest. The ending is
totally unexpected, given that the
theme of reconciliation and accep-
tance is carried out a bit exces-
sively. As could be expected from
a movie called "The Reader," the
original novel on which the film
is based does a much better job of
communicating a fabulous story.

"Hotel for Dogs"
Dreamworks and Nickelodeon Movies
At Showcase and Quality 16
Well, the canines were cute, but other than that there's not much
motivation to sit through "Hotel for Dogs."
Andi (Emma Roberts, "Nancy Drew") and Bruce (Jake T. Austin,
"The Perfect Game") are, orphans living in a foster home. Their foster
parents Lois Scudder (Lisa Kudrow, TV's "Friends") and Carl Scudder
(Kevin Dillon, TV's "Entourage") hate all animals and behave as such.
What the Scudders don't know is that Andi, Bruce and some friends
from the neighborhood spend their spare time rescuing stray dogs
from the town's overly sadistic animal control officers. They put the
strays up in an abandoned hotel, where Bruce has designed inventions
that cater to every dog's needs, ranging from a golden fire hydrant to
a car ride simulator. The fact that a nine-year-old boy could come up
with these ideas is highly improbable, and even with Bruce's inven-
tions, the hotel would most likely be considered a health code viola-
tion. It is full of unsupervised dogs, after all.
The cast is an interesting mix of fairly talented and less developed
actors. Don Cheadle ("Hotel Rwanda") plays a social worker, but his
performance can't save the film. Kudrow and Dillon, two normally
talented actors, are totally unfunny despite their, strange antics. And
the young performers are like a much lamer, less talented cast of
"High School Musical."
EMILYBOUDREAU
INTERESTED IN
WEB DEVELOPMENT
OR WEB DESIGN?
E-mail graca@michigandaily.com
for more information.

"Why doesn't the Tooth Fairy come anymore?"


4

6- Tuesday, January 27, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

4

PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
!2-BED 2-Bath!
515 Walnut: Huge apt., great for 3 or
4, tons of sunlight, furnished, new
kitchen, laundry and parking!
www.varsitymanagement.cm
(734)668-1100.
!3-Bedrooms! 1346 & 1506 Geddes:
Only I left @ each location
331 Catherine: Two apartments in a
large house, great Kerrytown location.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)1668-1100.
!6-BEDROOM House! 331 Cather-
ine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full baths, great
for 6 -8 people. Close to Downtown,
Zingerman's & summer farm market!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperies.com

I

M AsoGW h 
We Have Moved!
Yes, we finally
moved onto
campus; you can
now find us next
to. Pizza House
at:
Wilson White
Management
Campus Office
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich
48104

Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
infoCpostrealtyproperties.com
I & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Ilill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B 1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1200/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U/. $1625/ma.
Furn. heat/water icl. On site prkg. Fall
09. PeppersProperties. 810-231-0229.
Apartments Available!

40 EAST MION - Brand New
(!) apartments featuring: 6 Bedrooms +
Study, 2.5 bathrooms, washer
and dryer in unit, and off street park-
ing, corner of Madison and Packard.
Flaor plans available.
$3,995/ma va. Wilsan White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campusiwilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
I 'Vzie I

'Now untl January 311, get a pizza
coupon for every new tour!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenancel'!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
Universty
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall. 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall 09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS
$500-$600
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
available too! All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
MUST SEE! BI-level duplex just one
block to Rackham. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea-
tures dishwasher, carpet, fireplace and
a separate Dining Room.
Parking included.
Call Pat 734-663-4101.
www. vrsitymanagement co m
Ma iagement
625 Church St. -
17341 668100
917 Packard
Between Vaughn & E.
University
Large -bedroom
apartments
Each has a patio or balcony!
Greafor 3-4 people
Furnished, laundry, parking

WilsonWhite
401 East
Madison
-crRvU6 Nw (!) G
1 .erdrova. +StU
opprtmveots or F LL
2oog, cor-ver of
mof dLsort-nt.V
Mcldf-ov, FVoorpu vs
2V$,9 2bt

ALLMAND PRnOPRTIES: 10
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL2 BEDROOMS
.*Don't miss out on the
January Blowout Deals!!!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This absolutely ends on 1/31/2009!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. IMMED. 2 bdrm., hardwood
foor, full basement, 2 car garage, suit-
able for grad student. $1150/mo. Heat
and water included. (734) 662-9446.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free

Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BIG 2 BDRM. for 3 persons. 2 baths.
2 blocks from Union. Free heat/prkg.
Fall '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qt& iveligsise-COs ockdsbvesCarrsap
Call Briar)Tomsic
734-663-1530
CAMPUS LARGE 4 bdrm. apt. furn.,
prkg, ldry, non-smkr only, $1680/mo.
includes all utilities (734)-973-6499.
tpetiet@emerson-schools.org
CURRENTLY PRE-LEASING Stu-
dio- 12Br Houses/Apartments; Great lo-
cations both Downtown and on Cam-
pus. Call Wilson White Management at
734-995-9200, stop by 616 Church St.
across from Amers or see
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com for
available units.
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location I & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water inet. $1999/ ma. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
°a andOP
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarboraprtmenes.nee
or Visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.

4

4

4

4

www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-5620

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, January 27, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Palmer with an 49 Louvre Pyramid
1 Picture puzzle 1 Mayberry letters army architect
6 Catchall abbr. 2 Musical gift 37 Queens team 50 Dawdle
10 Playing an extra 3 Ted, to Eunice 40 Crossing over 52 Two-time loser to
period, briefly 4 The States, 42 Rooked Ike
14 Tehran tongue briefly 43 In_ of: to replace 53 "Animal House"
15 Dear man, in 5 Hopscotch site 45 Communication house
Milan e Earth-friendly sci. syst. with hand 54 Levitate
16 Delany of 7 Airport waiter signals 55 Columnist's page
"Desperate 8 Coliseum 48 Three-time 59 Eggs in labs
Housewives" 9 Robin Hood's Wimbledon 60 Bert Bobbsey's
17 Dickens's weapon singles champ twin
Edwin 10 "High Sierra" Maria 61 PC key
18 Plow-pulling pair leading lady
19 Does sum work 11 Rock bottom ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Getting a buzz 12 Like Netflix flicks
from being 13 Shock with a stun O L E A M
23 Free-for-all gun LEO HOLEY L I S L E
25 dwCysidicu sCus 21 Someasnexes F A S T E D D I E FIE L O N
26 Island westulor. 22 Cleopatra's "poor T eE E E E LE GEoI N D
Britain venomous fool" N U N N E R Y E X E S
27 Gobs 23 Telly watchers R O B U S T S E E P S
30 NE, vis-A-vis SW 24 Of the kidneys A B 4 R T S SARA B A A
31 Metaphorical 26"Assuming that's
backbreaker true..." P I X E L H E M U S E U P
34dMosque bigwig 28 Cosductor STY E B ON GLAND S
38 Rhubarbuni Kemperer F 9 A N C I N I T I 0
38 Old sat 29 Evidential A E N C S E E E D
40 Nighime amount ATOI
aanyance, 32 Delanct annual
maybe Hnlu lu foball T H E C O L O R O F M O N E Y
41 Home of the game H E M E N U S O F A S E E
Nobel Peace 33 Evaporating sea S L E D S T A K E N Y R S
Center 35 Like a fresh cake xwordeditor@aol.com 01/2609
42 Centerof4
attention 1 2 3 4 6 86 7 I 59 Slt1112 13
44 "2001" computer , ,s
46 "Baby Dull' 4isdr
directu K an 17 a 1is
47 Eunice, to Ted
48 Hardlyobjective a 21 22
51 Related
maternally 23 24 a
53 Grope, asfor a
light switch 26 27 2 0
56 Confiscated car 31 32 s 4 as3s 37
57 Film segment
58 Massy of old a 39 a
moies
62 From square one 41 42 3
63 Metallica's
"Nothing_1446 a4 47
Matters" 4e 49 so s1 s2
64 Like sea batlsis a s
65 Pat in long hours s3 54 66
66 Changed from
black to red, e.g. ss 67 5 s9 60 61
87 Fairyltale
l7iwer ofthe 626364
starts of 20-, 31-,
42- and 53- 65a667
Across
By Sharon Petersen & Nancy Salomon01/27/09
(c)2009dTribune Media Services, Inc.

Houwer Available rall
2009
3 bedroomsz
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms.
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500

Deadlinefor ne ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for details * Students may receive a25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
businessads only) * Al ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check n For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 8.00 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70
4 lines 17.20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wil be accepted. Misprints: The labity of
TMD for falure to publsh an advertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
shal be lmited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
wi be responsible for classified advertisement errors ony if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rates nes are consecuve insertions. An ad may be extended at a
consecutive rate if requested and paid in fulby 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds:
Advertisers may cancel an ad before pubcation deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
been published. Refusal: Al ads are subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisements for
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to
accepting advertising.

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
160 - ets

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SENATE ASSEMBLY
From Page 1
presentation onhis committee's find-
ings and recommendations regard-
ing student-athlete advising.
Rothman's proposal outlined
seven recommendations to reform
'how the University handles issues
regarding student-athletes.
"The focus is primarily on advis-
ing," he said. "It is in the interface
of these operations that we saw
some issues, and that is what our
improvements are directed at."
Rothman presented a motion to
the assembly proposing that each
academic unit be responsible for
making recommendations on an
athlete's eligibility to the provost.
The motion was approved 29-4
with one abstention.
"We are proposingthat th'at func-
tion be handled in the same way
as eligibility of all students, with
respect to University rules," Roth-
man said. "The academic advisers
who make decisions about eligibility
(should) make decisions about eligi-
bility of student-athletes as well."
Physics Prof. Keith Riles intro-
duced a motion to recommend that
the University president discontin-
ue the practice of paying for APC
members to attend bowl games.
After much discussion and contro-
versy, the motion passed 19-11.
Controversy over the motions
and the voting procedure arose
when Classical Studies Prof. David
Potter, chair of the Senate Assem-
bly, explained to assembly members
that Rothman's proposal would
be considered and only if it failed
would Riles' proposal be consid-
ered. Riles challenged Potter say-
ing he was abusing his power.
"You clearly do not want this
resolution to pass, since you are a
beneficiary to this very perk," Riles
said. "I have put a motion before the
Assembly. I think it should be voted
upon and your manipulation - try-
ing to say that we have to choose one
motion or the other - is ridiculous."

Riles also accused Potter of
receiving $5,000 in travel costs
from the Athletic Department for
attendence at bowl travel expenses.
Potter subsequently recused him-
self from the vote, leaving College of
Engineering Prof. Michael Thouless
topresideoverthemeeting.Thouless
allowed discussion on the motions
and procedure;which continued for
approximately 30 minutes.
Assembly members argued both
sides of the issue: some calling for an
immediate vote on Rothman's pro-
posalorthetablingofRiles'sproposal,
while others argued that the motions
should be considered separately.
Throughout the discussion,
several faculty members could be
heard making off-hand comments
to others in the audience that they
were frustrated with the lengthy
procedural debate.
One faculty member argued to
the entire assemblythat he found it
agonizing that assembly members
were willingto tolerate such a clear
conflict of interest.
One facultymember,whohad pre-
viously served on the APC, defended
the practice saying travel to bowl
games gave faculty a valuable oppor-
tunity to represent the University.
Another assembly member coun-
tered the argument saying that fac-
ulty members not on APC would be
equally qualified to represent the
University to prospective students
and alumni at the bowl games.
Rothman told assembly mem-
bers that if they voted in favor of
Riles' motion, they would be send-
ing a message that they believed a
conflict of interest existed, despite
the lack of evidence.
Riles responded to Rothman's
claim saying APC's power to rec-
ommend eligibility was not the only
possible conflict of interest.
"That'sjusttheextremeconflictof
interest," he said. "Even the appear-
ance of a conflict of interest should
be eliminated. It's just thatsimple."
Haven Bassett contributed
to this report.

KANG
From Page 1
think it's terrific."
Oberlin College President
Martin Krislov, who taught Kang
at the University of Michigan,
seemed not surprised by Kang's
recent exposure in national poli-
tics.
"Eugene Kang impressed me in

class as thoughtful and sophisti-
cated," Krislov said. "He also was
highly motivated to delve into pol-
itics and policy issues. I am very
happy for him and am confident he
will excel."
One of his first major experienc!e
es in politics was his 2005 run for
the Ann Arbor City Council.
Kang's City Council campaign
platform included a push for
affordable housing options and

opposition to tax increases. Since
the early primary was in August,
though, many of Kang's potential
student supporters were out of
town. He lost the bid by a mere 90
votes.
"I think he .(Kang) was very
savvy, he ran an excellent cam-
paign that was well-thought out.
He was a tough challenge," Rapun-
dalo said of his former opponent.
Kang's growing exposure on

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 - 7
the national political stage can be
attributed to his early role in the
Obama movement.
Kang also served as the call-
time manager for the Obama for
America presidential campaign.
He was one of fourteen mem-
bers of the Obama's presidential
exploratory committee, which was
formed in January of 2007 as one
of the first steps in his run for the
presidency.


FALLOUT
From Page 1
Public Safety spokeswoman Diane
Brown. Berenson confirmed that
the man was Kampfer's father,
Bruce Kampfer.
"Yeah, he called me and apolo-
gized," Berenson said.
With one minute remaining in
Saturday's game, Kampfer made a
legal,open-icehitonTroppnearcen-
ter ice. Conboy immediately chased
after kampfer and struck him in the
head from behind. After Kampfer
fell to th3e ice, Tropp slashed Kamp-
fer's neck with his stick.
A person who was in the room
duringpolice questioningsaid Bruce
Kampfer told police that he entered
the visitor's locker room after the
incident and grabbed Tropp by his
jersey. Kampfer said the two were
shouting at each other, but were
separated before any punches were
thrown. The person present at the

police interview wasn't authorized
to speak to the press and asked to
remain anonymous.
Berenson said he contacted
Comley to apologize for the locker.
room confrontation between Bruce.
Kampfer and Tropp.
"I apologized to the security
around the bench and around the
locker room," Berenson said. "And
that shouldn't happen, either. But
that's other people getting emo-
tional, too, and not making good
decisions."
Steve Kampfer maintained
yesterday that he was unsure of
whether or not his father was the
man who confronted Tropp.
Despite Comley's stern condem-
nation and punishment for the
actions of Conboy and Tropp, he
believed the hit was not intended
to specifically target Kampfer.
"This was an incident that was
an emotional, split-second action,
for which these players are being
punished," Comleywrote. "I do not

want this to be portrayed that this
was anything pre-meditated, or.
that any single player was 'target-
ed.' Their reaction, while inappro-
priate, was a split-second response
that I know they wish they could
have back."
Berenson also said the incident
didn't appear to be premeditated.
"I asked Steven, 'Did you have
any history with (Tropp)?," Beren-
son said. " 'Was there something
last nightorlastyear?' And he said,
'No, nothing, really. It was just a
spur of the moment thing."
Kampfer was taken out of Yost
Ice Arena on a gurney Saturday
and transported to a local hospital
for what Michigan officials said
were "precautionary reasons." He
suffered a concussion from the
incident, Berenson said.
"Everything came back nega-
tive," Kampfer said of tests run
after the incident. "It's just a
strain in the neck. That's all we're
focused on."

Kampfer said he hoped to return
to practice today or Wednesday.
"I have a couple of more tests to
run, but hopefully everything goes
out pretty well," he said. "Every-
thing's just really stiff. But it's like
the first couple of days out of the
neck brace, just trying to move it
around. Everything's fine."
Kampfer said he felt disgusted
when watching replays of Conboy
and Tropp attacking him.
"It makes me sick to think that
somebody could do that," Kamp-
fer said."It's unnecessary. I can't
speak for them and say that there
was intent, but it's uncalled for. I
understand it's a heated rivalry,
and even more so now. It's some-
thing we're notgoing to forget. The
coaches have alreadytold us that."
Berenson said Michigan State
officials had contacted him to apol-
ogize for the incident. But Kampfer
said no one has contacted him per-
sonally and that he has no desire to
hear from them.


COMMUNITY
From Page 1
new students in their first year,
the Global Scholars Program will
be open to sophomores, juniors
or seniors in any major. It will be
housed in the East Quadrangle
Residence Hall.
"The requirement is enthusiasm
for intercultural exchange," Global
Scholars Program Director Jenni-
fer Yim said, adding that applica-
tions are still being accepted.

Lectures, dialogues, collab-
orative group projects and video
teleconferencing will be used
to enhance the experience. The
program's officials said that the
technological component of the
program would allow for interac-
tions between people that once
required studying abroad.
Students will also be encour-
aged to explore options to study,
work or volunteer abroad.
The living component of the liv-
ing-learning community is supposed
to foster intercultural exchange.

"Students will be working in
small groups together, going to lec-
tures together, doing community
servicetogether,"Yimsaid. "Shared
experiences are really powerful for
growth and development."
Linda Newman, interim direc-
tor of University Housing, said
in a press release that the Global
Scholars Program, the Univer-
sity's tenth residential learning
program, would offer students a
unique opportunity to expand their
understanding of global issues.
Marjorie Horton, assistant dean

of LSA, said the final details of the
program are still being finalized.
"The long-term vision is an
undergraduate program that pro-
vides intercultural exchanges,
intergroupdialogues acrossethnic,
religious, and national identities,
academic studies, and interna-
tional experiences, leading to the
transformation of students into
global citizens and problem solv-
ers, committed to mutual under-
standing, peaceful co-existence,
social justice and positive change,"
she said.


the United States' role in the world
AYERS today, citing it as something that
From Page 1 needs to be handled in a way in
which the United States does not
the Obama administration is going continue to be a dominating force
to do," he said. "Remember, he's not upon other nations, but a "nation
king, not a monarch, he's a citizen." among nations," as Ayers said.
Dohrn agreed, saying it is time Dohrn, citing youth activism
for citizens to work with the presi- in Birmingham, Little Rock, and
dent to create change. Tiananmen Square, said young
"We have to stop being specta- people can be some of the strongest
tors of the blogs, and we have to go catalysts for social change.
back to being organizers and mobi- "It's young people who are the
lizers," Dohrn said. risk takers who break the norms
Ayers and Dohrn also discussed to show what's really happening,"
the michigan daily

Dohrn said.
When Ayers and Dohrn took
questions from the audience, one
member asked whether Ayers con-
demns his own actions during the
1960s and 70s, including bombing
the Capitol Building and Pentagon.
Both Ayers and Dohrn said they
take responsibility for their actions
during that time, but they cannot
apologize for them.
"Our view is that we, as individuals
and in terms of organizations, were
never terrorists," Dohrn said. "We
don't think terrorism is a good idea'

Ayers, who said the spirit of the
Vietnam War era is still alive today,
said he does feel remorse for some
of his actions during that time, as a
Weatherman.
"I don't defend what the Under-
ground did," Ayers said. "I never
made a claim that we were all that
effective. We were not terrorists
because we did not hurt people.
Some of that I feel some remorse
for, but none of that do I think was
terrorism."
Ayers also said that it is vitally
important for citizens to act and

push for change as the nation faces
such daunting challenges.
"I do think if you're not will-
ing to open your eyes and act, then
you sit cynically on your couch and
watch the world as it goes to hell,"
Ayers said.
The majority ofstudents inatten-
dance said after the event that the
talk was inspirational, especially
given its relevant call for change in
society today.
"I thought it was eye-opening
andexcellent," said LSAsophomore
Scott Templin. "I feel this spirit of

radical and passionate activism,
embodied by the two speakers, are
so relevant in today's day and age
because, like they said, we need to
stand up and we need to act."
But other students said that
certain questions were left unan-
swered, including Ayers's contro-
versialroleinlastyear's presidential
election.
"I think everybody kind of want-
ed to know about his relation to
Obama, but that didn't really come
out," said LSA sophomore Bradley
Pritts.

SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS
Church. $825 - $925. 734-2
APARTMENTS AVA
FALL 2009
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard (Furnished) $1
915 Oakland (Grand Vict
$2295
1015 Packard (Near State
$1355
205 N. Division (Cathedr
$1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard (Newly
$2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division (Historic H
916 Sybil (Brand New Hou
1021 E. University (Acros
Peppers) $2495
1307 S. State $2595
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison (Brand Nev
1014 Vaughn (Plenty
$3695
1814 Geddes (Close to Diag
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson (Victoria
$4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bed
ments available too! W
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagem
campus@wilsonwhiteman
LARGE FURNISHED 3
1111 S. State, Near UM
Avail. Now or Fall 2009,
incl. Balc., A/C, pr
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7
ehtseng@comcast.net
GREAT LOCATION, 2
CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 bath
screened front porch, g
Room, d/w & microwave
lot behind house. 2 bdrm
used as doubles! Call Pat 73
a.) read the daily
b.) do the crossword pu
c.) sleep and embarass

at Hill and 428 HAMILTON PLACE
60-4003. 8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled Old Town Realty
ILABLE 734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. HeatAvater included. $999/mo.
1890 734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
orian Home)
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
and Packard) Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
ral Ceilings)
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
Remodeled) from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
lome) $3125 WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
se) $3295 HOUSES want to sell your student
s From Sgt. rental house (248) 626-0614.
WE WILL BE there - will you? U of
M Housing Fair, Michigan Union ball-
room 02-04-09 12-4:30; we will
w!) $3995 have deals, specials, giveaways, and
of Parking) fancy dress! Stop by and find your
housing for next year...now! Wilson
g) $3795 White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
an Mansion) bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back. $3300.
rooms pat- Call 248-214-8708!
ilson Whtte ________________
NOW LEASING
ent.com Prime Student Housing
agement. 761-8000
bdrm. apt. at www.primesh.com
8 bus stop
Heat & water Call today to see your new Home!
kg., ldry.,
pets. Efficiencies:
250. 344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. STATE-I LEFT
doors east of 5520 Packard
i. house has 515 . Lawrence
hous has 326 B. Madison
iant Living 511 E. Hoover
. Parking in 1320 S UNIVERSITY
ts. could be 2 Bedrooms:
34-663-4101. 909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-1 LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1320 S. University-1 LEFT
' *Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
zzle * Free heat and water
yourself (* At most locations)

HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard.
5 or 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free
ldry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
BIG HSE: 5 lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free ldry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mm. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE'
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
wwwannarborapartments.net
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
0 .

help pwanted
-090 '
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
TEST OUR PRODUCT and Get Free
Stuff! Ann Arbor tech startup seeks
volunteers to test our software product,
Your input will directly help drive our
product! TestOurProduct@gmail.com
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED to re-
design website for Ann Arbor based
company. Flexible hrswork from
home. Pay hourly or by the job. Please
call Jon (734) 677-5562.
PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST
needed for real estate office. 30+
hrs/week. 9am-3 pm Sat. & Sun. Other
hours flexible. Email
bouma@bouma.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626 - 6304
www.theislandhouse.com
Chl Care ./
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15
yr. old son needed, 10 min. from cam-
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev-
eral meals/wk., grocery shopping. Own
reliable transportation. Call 761-8489.
CHILDCARE / DRIVER needed M,
W,F 2:45pm-6pm. Dan 649-7009.

For Wednesday, Jan. 28, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You want to make better use of the
solitude you find (if you can find any at
all). Down deep, you're looking for
ways to turn over a new leaf or to
improve yourself somehow.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You want to improve your appearance
and the first impression that you create
on others. You know that first impres-
sions are very powerful.
GEMINI
(May21 to0June 20)
Bosses, parents and VIPs might come
on a little strongtoday. They want youto
redo something or improve it. Possibly,
you want to suggest a way to make
improvements in your relationship with
them.
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
You might hear something today that
causes you to widen your beliefs or let
go of some prejudices. More information
will give you a fuller picture about
something, especially in another culture
or another land.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You might have new ideas about how
to deal with inheritances, insurance mat-
ters or shared property. Why not share
these ideas with others in case they're
worth exploring?
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Whatever happens today might reveal
ways that you can improve your rela-
tionships with partners and close friends.
It might be something obvious, or it
could just be a subtle hunch you get.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Talk to others about ways to improve

your job or the way things are done at
work. People will be receptive to your
suggestions (hopefully).
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
New ideas about improving sports,
improving your approach to the arts or
improving your relationships with chil-
dren could occur to you today.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Conversations with family members
might be helpful today. People are keen
to make improvements at home or with
each other - oops, go carefully!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Conversations are lively today!
Emotional outbursts, especially with sib-
lings, are likely. However, they might
just clear the air and be for the better.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
You might see new sources of earning
money. Similarly, you might see ways to
repair something you own. You're ready
to take care of things.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Think about how you can improve
your diet, your appearance or your
lifestyle today. It's possible to introduce
reforms that are for the better.
YOU BORN TODAY You're highly
individualistic. You're an original
thinker. And you are very much your
own person. You are strong-willed and
brave about pursuing your dreams and
defending your values and decisions in
life. You love to pioneer new areas that
have not yet been explored. Fortunately,
you are practical. Work hard to build or
construct something in the coming year.
Your rewards will soon follow.
Birthdate of Sarah McLachlan,
singer; Kathryn Morris, actress; Carlos
Slim Held, philanthropist.

02009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net


4

8 - Tuesday, January 27, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FIVE HUNDRED

After 27 seasons at
four-year schools,
Beilein reaches
coaching milestone
By ALEX PROSPERI
Daily Sports Writer
As time wound down during the
Michigan men's basketball team's
68-59victory over Northwestern on
Saturday, fifth-year senior C.J. Lee
saw Wolverine coach John Beilein
shaking hands with his assistant
coaches.
The gestuee was a bit unusual
- Beilein usually walks straight to
the opposing coach to shake hands.
When Lee entered the locker room,
administrative specialist Jeff
Meyer whispered that it was Beile-
in's 500th win at a four-year school.
The co-captain proceeded to write
a big"500" on the whiteboard.
That Lee was unaware of Bei-
lein's achievement speaks less to
Lee's absentmindedness and more
to Beilein's humility. The coach is a
man at work, jacket off and sleeves
rolled up on the sideline.
"I'll say what every coach says
and they should say," said Beilein,
who coached five college teams
before landing at Michigan in 2007.
"It is a great staff and great play-
ers."
Beilein, now one of 18 active head
coaches with 500 wins, was mod-
est regarding the landmark win,
but Michigan associate head coach
Jerry Dunn wasn't.
"I think in today's game, it's
really outstanding," Dunn said.
"Because all too often, you don't
have the luxury of having the same
guys for four years. The beauty of it
is he's done it everywhere he's been,
and he's been very innovative in
finding ways to win."
Asked if he was proud of his
coach's accomplishment, sopho-
more Manny Harris added: "Oh
yeah, oh yeah. Five hundred -
that's big-time."
Before entering the college
ranks, Beilein, 55, spent three years
at Newfane Central High School in
Newfane, N.Y. His first college job
was at Erie Community College in
Buffalo, N.Y., where he posted a
75-43 record in four years. Erie is

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Cagers drop
fifth straight
in road defeat

1 vil
S AIfD ALSAL AH/Da
Michigan men's basketball coach John Beilein earned his 500th win at a four-year college against Northwestern on Saturday.

Michigan continues
to struggle away
from Crisler Arena
in Big Ten play
By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team seems to be slowly
figuring out how to win a Big Ten
game on the road.
But the Wolverines still
couldn't pull out the win away
from Crisler Arena, losing 77-69
to Iowa on Monday.
Last-
night MICHIGAN 69
was IOWA 77
Michi-
gan's best performance in a con-
ference road game, despite losing
its fifth straight overall. The Wol-
verines are on their longest losing
streak since dropping the last six
games of the 2006-2007 season.
By working the ball into the
paint to find easy buckets, Michi-
gan (2-7 Big Ten, 9-11 overall)
kept up with the Hawkeyes' rapid
scoring pace.
Both teams went back and
forth all night and the game had
17 lead changes in the first half
alone.
From the beginning, it was
clear that Michigan wanted to
focus on creating a post pres-
ence.
Junior center Krista Phillips
started over senior Stephany
Skrba, and she made it count.
Matching up against 6-foot-6
Iowa center Megan Skouby, Phil-
lips went 8-of-15 for aseason-high
16 points. She was also a rebound
away from a double-double.
"She did a real good job of
establishing herself really early,
and .that really got her confi-
dence up," Michigan coach Kevin

Borseth said.
The Wolverines scored 32
points in the paint, far more than
in recent games where they have
relied more on the 3-point shot.
Skrba played just three min-
utes and didn't take a shot, but
freshman Carmen Reynolds
stepped up. The wing came off
the bench and scored 12 points,
most of them tough baskets down
low.
"Carmen comes in and gives us
an added presence down around
that post and her ability to drive
it," Borseth said.
Sophomore guard Veronica
Hicks bounced back nicely from
her poor scoring night against
Indiana and finished as Michi-
gan's second-leading scorer with
15 points.
"We put the ball.in the basket
for the first time," Borseth said.
Iowa ended the
game with a 6-0
run to clinch
the victory.
"That hasn't happened in quite a
long time."
Michigan matched Iowa's
intensity the entire game, but
the Wolverines couldn't close the
game out in the final minutes.
Down by just two with 1:33
remaining, Michigan let 5-foot-8
Hawkeye guard Kamille Wahlin
grab an offensive rebound off a
missed shot by senior Wendy
Ausdemore and put it in for the
layup.
Michigan missed its .final six
shots and Iowa (5-3, 12-7) ended
the game on a 6-0 run to seal*the
victory.

4

4

4
4

a two-year program, and only four-
year programs count towards the
NCAA total.
"I think the first 75 at Erie Com-
munity College were pretty darn
hard to get," Beilein said. "You go
and you do your coaching at Broom
Tech, and who knows who is reffing
the game? They could be directly
related to the coach. And you ate at
McDonalds and you drove the van.
So those were pretty hard too -
those first four years."
Beilein then spent one year at
Division-III Nazareth in Roches-
ter, N.Y., compiling a 20-6 record.
Next, Beilein turned Division-II Le
Moyne in Syracuse, N.Y., into a com-
petitor, winning at least 19 games in
five of nine seasons.
He stayed in New York to take

his first Oivieion-I job in 1992. At
Canisius in Buffalo, Beilein won at
least 17 games in four of five sea-
sons. In 1996, Canisius won the
Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference
Tournament to reach its first NCAA
Tournament in almost 40 years.
Two years later, Beilein took the
lead post at Richmond, where he
put together a 100-53 record in five
seasons.
In 2002, West Virginia hired
Beilein, who quickly turned the
program into a force to be reckoned
with in the Big East. His Mountain-
eers reached the NCAA Tourna-
ment twice, including a trip to the
Elite Eight in 2005. And West Vir-
ginia won the National Invitation
Tournament in his last year there.
Beilein is in his 34th consecu-

tine year as a coach and second at
Michigan.
"I'm a nomad, and there's a lot
of losses in those 500, as well," said
Beilein, who is the only active col-
lege coach with 20-win seasons at
four different levels (junior col-
lege, NAIA, NCAA Division-II and
NCAA Division-I). "Kathleen (Bei-
lein's wife for 29 years) has been
with me through every one of them,
too."
Although Lee pondered the
meaning behind Beilein's con-
gratulatory handshakes, redshirt
freshman Laval Lucas-Perry had
something else on his mind.
"I was thinking of pouring a
Gatorade on him during the game,"
Lucas-Perry said. "But there wasn't
any time for that."

After rewarding career, Urbanchek gives back to 'M'

Famed volunteer
coach to be inducted
into Michigan Sports
Hall of Fame
By RYAN A. PODGES
Daily Sports Writer
Last fall, the Michigan men's
swim team wasworking out at Elbel
Field. Assistant coach Dr. Josh
White had the team playing Ulti-

mate Frisbee, but instead of using
a Frisbee, the Wolverines used
medicine balls for training. With an
odd number of guys at practice, the
team needed another person to play,
so White yelled at retired Michigan
coach Jon Urbanchek to get in the
game.
"I was just joking, but I should
have known," White said laughing.
"Before I know it, he's pulled his
shirt off, running right in there and
playing with them."
White should have known. Not
only because Urbanchek is in great

__ - - r --, -11 ----j - - _ - - n --

H--UOI

physical shape - he's been running,
outside every morning for 20 years
and still lifts weights with the team
- but because he's always willing to
help out in any way he can. And he
does.
After retiring in 2004 at the end
of his 22nd season as Michigan's
head coach, he became an assistant
coach with Club Wolverine, helping
the high-performance group pre-
pare for the 2008 Olympics. In July,
when current head coach Mike Bot-
tom was hired to replace former
coach Bob Bowman, he immedi-
ately asked Urbanchek to stay and
help.
"When I first started coaching,
I had a list of about six coaches
I wanted to work with," Bottom
said. "And Jon was on the top of
that list."
Urbanchek now serves as the
team's volunteer coach emeritus
and is still involved in everything
from meet and practice prepara-
tion to showing recruits around
Ann Arbor.
Bottom said the team is
"blessed" to have Urbanchek on
deck and that there is no better
ambassador for Michigan swim-
ming. Before coaching the Wolver-
ines, Urbanchek swam at Michigan
from 1958-62 and was a member of
three NCAA Championship teams.
Asheadcoachfrom1982to2004,.
he won 13 Big Ten titles, includ-
ing 10 straight from 1986 to 1995,
and led the Wolverines to a 100-4
record against Big Ten teams. In
1995, Michigan won its 11th and
most recent NCAA National Cham-
pionship, pulling even with Ohio
State for the national record.
In addition to his collegiate suc-
cess, Urbanchek cultivated a pro-
gram that produced Big Ten and
NCAA champion swimmers who
were also competitive at interna-
tional competitions.
"At Michigan, it's more than
just the Big Tens or the NCAAs,"
Urbanchek said. "It's about going
beyond that, because there is
always another level. That's why
Michigan has been so successful
for decades, because we put more
emphasis on the Olympics and
World Championships."
Urbanchek has served as an

assistant coach at every Summer
Olympics since 1988 and worked
with world-record holders and
Olympic gold medalists including
Tom Dolan, Tom Malchow and
Michael Phelps.
Urbanchek's accomplishments
have earned him the Big Ten Coach
of the Year award nine times (more
than any other men's swimming
coach in conference history) and
the American Swimming Coaches
Association's Coach of the Year
honor in 1990 and 1995. Last sum-
mer, his accomplishments earned
him a spot in the International
Swimming Hall of Fame. He was
the 18th individual affiliated with
Michigan to be inducted.
Next month in Detroit,
Urbanchek will be inducted into the
Michigan Sports Hall of Fame as
part of a class of 11 that includes for-
mer Michigan football-and baseball
All-American Rick Leach, NASCAR
team owner Jack Roush, Red Wings
co-owner Marian Illitch and media
announcer George Blaha.
But while Urbanchek's success as
a coach is incredible, coaches and
swimmers say it's his personality
that has given him staying power.
"He's a man's man," Bottom said.
"He talks to the guys the way guys
like to be talked to in testosterone
terms, and yet he communicates
with absolute respect. There is no
one in the country that doesn't,
when you say Jon Urbanchek, just
smile, nod their head and say, 'Oh,
yes, that guy is the man."
White says he frequently asks
Urbanchek for advice and is amazed
by his humility.
"This is a guy whose name is on
the scoreboard (over the pool), and
when you go see the athletic admin-
istrators, they have signed pictures
of him hanging in their offices,"
White said, "But ego doesn't drive
Jon. He never implies that he has all
the answers. I've learned so much
from the answers that he has given
me and just watching him interact
with guys."
Many of the relationships
Urbanchek builds with his ath-
letes last a lifetime. He is routinely
invited to their weddings. They fill
his Facebook profile with greetings,
and he receives calls and text mes-

4

Former Michigan men's swimming and diving coach Jon Urbanchek, seen here at a
Michigan basketball game in 2004, has had ties to Michigan since 1958.

sages from Olympians who simply
want to catch up.
Along with his volunteer posi-
tion at Michigan, Urbanchek also
works with USA Swimming as a
special assistant to the National
Team Director. He says that despite
his love of swimming, the time will
come when he will want to spend
more time with his family or enjoy-
ing his other passion - riding and
caring for his two horses, which he
keeps in a local stable.
Though he's not sure when that

time will be, Urbanchek says he
couldstopcoachingknowingthere's
not.much left for him to chase. For
now, he continues to coach not only
because he loves the sport and the
athletes, but because he felt he owed
it to the school..
"I've gotten a lot out of Michi-
gan and I owe a lot to Michigan," he
said. "When I went to school here,
I got my five years here on scholar-
ship. I figured I could pay back all
the money I received when I was a
student. So I think we're even now."

4

}+


