pa

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, March 16, 2009

michigandaily.com

'M' dancing for first time since'98

No. 10 seed Michigan
to play No. 7 seed
Clemson in first
round Thursday
By ALEX PROSPERI
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan faithful waited
more than 4,000 days and watched
more than 300, games in prepara-
tion for a day like Sunday.
And judging by the turnout at
Crisler Arena, it was worth the
wait.
For the first time since 1998, the
Michigan men's basketball team'
has. earned an NCAA Tournament
bid. CBS announced Sunday night
that No. 10 seed Michigan would
face No. 7 seed Clemson in the
South Regional in Kansas City on

Thursday at 7:10 p.m.
If the Wolverines win, they will
face the winner of No. 2 seed Okla-
homa and No.15 seed Morgan State.
"I knew that the country wants to
see the block 'M' back at the dance,"
MichiganAthleticDirectorBill Mar-
tin said. "I think it's a real defining
moment for our program this year,
It's just upward going forward."
The Wolverines (20-13) have
played their best basketball this
season with their backs against the
wall. Michigan was the 61st team to
have its name called Sunday, which
put the team through the grinder
yet again.
"It was very appropriate because
that kind of sums up our season,"
fifth-year senior C.J. Lee said.
"We've been right there, back and
forth all year."
When studio host Greg Gumbel
finally said 'Michigan' on the CBS
telecast, it was to the tune of hun-

dreds of screaming fans who filled
the lower bowl on the east side
of Crisler Arena. Michigan coach
John Beilein addressed the crowd
after the show.
"I don't even know because of
all the excitement, where are we
going?" Beilein asked.
Michigan waited more than a half
hour to hear its name called - not
an easy task for players or coaches.
"I was so nervous," fifth-year
senior co-captain David Merritt
said. "My stomach was turning
over just to think that there was a
chance we wouldn't make it. Luck-
ily and thank God that our name
came up as a10 (seed)."
Added Lee: "Of course I was ner-
vous. When you're seeing all those
spots beingtaken by teams that kind
of are similar to yourself, we were
just playingthe waiting game."
Assistant coach Mike Jackson
See TOURNAMENT, Page 3A

WILL MOLtLER/Daily
Michigan players and fans celebrate in Crisler Arena last night moments after they found out they made the NCAA Tournament.
CAMPUS REMEMBERS
ackbone At'U,' Davidson
understand what the endow-
ment is, what it's comprised of,
how it functions, who manages
itnnr m fall how ' . it 5,,,,

Pistons owner,
University alum
passed away at the
age of 86 on Friday
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Bill - Davidson, Detroit Pistons
owner and Ross School of Business
alum, passed away last Friday at the
age of86.
Davidson died at his Bloomfield
Hills home, and
although the
cause of death is1
still unknown,
Davidson's
health had been
poor for the last
few years.
The funeral DAVIDSON
will be held at
Congregation .
Shaarey Zedek in Southfield, Mich.
Tuesday at noon.
University President Mary Sue
Coleman wrote in an e-mail state-
ment Saturday that Davidson will be
greatly missed here at the University.
"It was always a pleasure to spend
time with him, and my thoughts are

with Karen and their family," Cole-
man wrote in the e-mail to The
Michigan Daily. "We will miss him,
and we will honor his legacy as a
dedicated and successful alumnus."
As part of his legacy at the Uni-
versity, Davidson created the Wil-
liam Davidson Institute in 1992 at
the Ross School of Business. 'The
institute, according to its web-
site, is a "non-profit, independent,
research and educational institute
dedicated to developing and dis-
seminating expertise on issues
affecting firms in transition and
emerging market economies."
WDI Executive Director Robert
Kennedy, who worked with David-
son over the past six years, wrote
in an e-mail to The Michigan Daily
Saturday that Davidson loved to
help however he could, and was
truly a great man.
"Bill Davidson was a business
visionary, a great philanthropist
and a dedicated family man," he
wrote. "He was incredibly generous
to the University of Michigan.
"One of the nice things was that
it was never about him. Bill always
encouraged us to aim high and to
accomplish great things," he wrote.
"The thing he said most often was,
'How canI help?'"
See DAVIDSON, Page 3A

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
MSA presidential
candidates to square
off in debate tonight

Former MSA
president Prof. Scott
Page will moderate
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
In the midst of one of the most
competitive Michigan - Student
Assembly election races in recent
.history, the presidential and vice
presidential candidates from each
party will engage in a debate at
7:30 tomorrow night in the Palmer
Commons Auditorium.
All three parties in the election
- the Defend Affirmative Action
Party, the Michigan Vision Party
and the reMichigan Campaign -

will take part in the debate, which
WOLV-TV will broadcast on chan-
nel 55 and stream to its website.
Vice presidential candidates will
field questions from.Political Sci-
ence Prof. Scott Page, who was MSA
president from 1984-1985, until 8
p.m., at which point presidential
candidates will take the stage until
the close of the debate at 9 p.m.
Page said he thinks student lead-
ers offer a unique perspective on
improvingcampus-wide issues.
. "When I was a student, I was
convinced that students had some
of the bestideas for how to improve
the University," he said. "I still
think that's true."
Page will pose a series of questions
to the candidates, who will each
See DEBATE, Page 3A


WEATHER HI:69 GOT A NEWSTIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO4 news o michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
How Selection Sunday went forthe Big Ten.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

I'NDEX NEWS......
Vol CXIX, No. 109 OPINION ...
'2009 The Michigan Daily ARTS......
michigandoily com

..................2A SU0OKU...........................5A
...................4A CLASSIFIEDS .:...................6A
...................5A SPORTSMONDAY... ...S........ IB

4

J

4

i 1


2A - Monday, March 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily -- michigi

;andaily.cc

2A - Monday, March 16, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michig andailyct


C h lfidil'an Daily
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com

Dm
n.
;9.

U. Montana paper criticized for sex column

GEITHNER GOES ABROAD

The University of Montana's
student newspaper, the Montana
Kaimin, has recently come under
fire for publishing a column on sex,
the Montana Kaimin reported.
Kirsten Juras, an assistant pro-
fessor of law at the University of
Montana, has criticized the column
calling it inappropriate, the Mon-
tana Kaimin reported.
"It's embarrassingly unprofes-
sional," Juras told the Montana
Kaimin. "It affects my reputation
as a member of the faculty."
The student-run newspaper
operates separately from the uni-
versity, which has reportedly led
some supporters to claim Juras's
criticisms are not justified.
The Montana Kaimin began
publishing the sex column, which
has discussed topics like sex toys
and virginity, at the beginning
of this semester on the opinion
page of the newspaper, the paper
reported.

TIES BETWEEN HARVARD PROFS, versity, especially in the current
DRUG COMPANIES QUESTIONED economic situation, the report said.

Harvard Medical School research-
ers have come under increased
scrutiny for potential conflicts of
interest with drug companies, The
New York Times reported.
According to the report, a
newly created internal commit-
tee is questioning the ties pro-
fessors have to pharmaceutical
companies. Members of Congress
are also reportedly investigating
the issue at other schools across
the country.
Matt Zerden, a fourth-year stu-
dent at the Medical School told
the Times that his pharmacology
professor is a paid consultant to 10
drug corporations. Accordingto the
report, 1,600 professors have rela-
tionships with drug companies.
Harvard administrators
have said corporate support is
extremely important to the uni-

UNIVERSITIES THAT TOOK
EXTRA CHANCES.HIT HARD BY
ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
Colleges and universities that take
high-risk investments, over-build on
campus and over-estimate their bud-
gets have helped contribute to the
current economic crisis, The Chroni-
cle of Higher Education reported.
The Chronicle reported that
Yale University, which typically
earns 16 percent on its investments
and had $23 billion endowed last
year, has lost one quarter of its
investments.
Increased campus construc-
tion has contributed to the current
situation. According to a survey by
The Chronicle, 14 percent of col-
lege buildings were built in the
past decade.
- NICOLEABER

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom 0
News Tips
Corrections
Letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance .

11a.m. -2 a.m.
734-763-24s9

fficehours:Sun.-Thurs. l

neoo@ofchigandlly.com
corrections@michgadaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@nfchigandaily.eom
arts@michigadaiy.com
opinion@efe5 igz xaiy.com
sporta@mihifezodaiy~cow
diaplay@oichigandiy.com
clasified@michigandaiy.com
onffneads@michiandaily.com

KIRSTYWIGGLESWORTH/AP
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner talks at a press
conference at the G20 Finance Ministers meeting ata hotel
near HorshamEngland onSaturday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Man takes aim Jeep collides Post Katrina Slam poetry
in Regents' Plaza with 'U' bus, no arts event performance

WHERE: Regents' Plaza
WHEN: Sunday at about 1:30
a.m.
WHAT: A non-university
affiliated man was found uri-
nating in public on the ground
of Regent's Plaza, University
Police reported. The man
was given a citation and was
released.
Cops wipe out

injuries reported
WHERE: 900 North University
WHEN: Saturday at about
12:45 p.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
driving a Jeep struck a Univer-
sity bus that was also in motion,
University Police reported.
There was no damage to the
bus or anyone on board, but the
driver fled the scene.

WHAT: "Monday Night in
New Orleans," a night of doc-
umentaries, poetry readings,
live music and dance to gain
recognition and awareness
of life in New Orleans post-
Hurricane Katrina.
WHO: Fighting Obstacles
Knowing Ultimate Success;
Phoenix of New Orleans
WHEN: Tonight at 8p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Center,
Video and Performance Studio
Performance by

WHAT: Salt Lines, a poetic
female quartet, will perform
slam poetry.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from 8 p.m.
to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
Michigan Room
CORRECTIONS
. A news article in last
Thursday's edition of the
Daily (Residency procedure
criticized 311109), inaccu-
rately quoted Senate Adviso-
ry Committee onUniversity
Affairs Chair David Potter.
Potter said the current resi-
dency procedure is a hassle
for students who are classi-
fied as non-residents, not for
students classified as in-state
residents.
0 Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Sick of waiting for another
fresh glass of beer? Wait no
longer. An Irish pub in Lex-
ington, Ky. recently installed
beer taps at every table in the
restaurant, the Lexington
Herald-Leader reported. The
taps are connected to kegs in
the bar's walk-in refrigerator.
The University recently
launched a film office to
help manage requests for
filming on campus, which are
the resultof Michigan's 40 per-
cent tax benefit to film studios.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
A riot broke out at an
America's Next Top
Model audition at the
Park Central New York
hotel, CNN.com reported.
Although three people were
arrested and six people were
injured, the cause of the riot is
unknown.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
lacob SmilovitZ:ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SnsORNEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aarsoan, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoler,
KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial PagetEditor . soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS:ErnilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke,MatthewShutter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS E DITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring,RuthLicfoaln
AnSSeANS EDITORS:RyanKartje,Ian Kay, JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
Alex Prosperi, Colt Rosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandaiy.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,Sam Wolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS:Hillary Ruffe
lessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaiy.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell Copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Oisplay Advertisingsales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Ryan Businski ClasaifiedsalesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng LayoutnManager
Viyian Leeand Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDaily(155 N0745-967)is published MondaythroughFridayduringthefalland winter
termsbystudentsat the Universityof Michigan.Onecopyisavailablefreeof charge toallreaders.
Additionalcopiesmaybe pickedupat theDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallandwinter term
(SeptemberthroughApril)viaU.S.malare$200.Year-roundsubsiptions(Fall,WieSpingand
Summer issuesare $225.Subscriptions must be prepaid.The Michigan Daily is a member of The
AssociatedPressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePress

' 1 - 1A "

skateboarders- NCAA Final Four electric bassist

gnarly session banner stolen

WHERE: Life Science Institute
WHEN: Friday at about 4:30
p.m.
WHAT: Three non-university
affiliated subjects were given
a warning for skateboarding
outside of the Life Sciences
Institute, University Police
reported.

WHERE: Pierpont Commons
WHEN: Friday at about 11:45
a.m.
WHAT: A banner that
read, "2009 NCAA Final -
Four Detroit" was stolen on
Thursday between 6:00 and
6:20 a.m., University Police
reported.

WHAT: Electric bassist Vic-
tor Wooten will be perform-
ing. Tickets can be purchased
at the Michigan Union
Ticket Office and are $47 for
reserved seats and $40 for
general admission.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

a

a

0

a

0 , A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
White House says
economy is sound
despite 'mess'
The economy is fundamen-
tally sound despite the temporary
"mess" it's in, the White House
said yesterday in the kind of upbeat
assessment that Barack Obama had
mocked as a presidential candi-
date.
Obama's Democratic allies plead-
ed for patience with an administra-
tion hitting the two-month mark
this week, while Republicans said
the White House's plans ignore
small business and the immediate
need to fix what ails the economy.
After weeks projecting a dismal
outlook on the economy, admin-
istration officials - led by the
president himself in recent days -
swung their rhetoric toward opti-
mism in what became Wall Street's
best stretch since November.
Duringthe fall campaign, Obama
ielentlessly criticized his Republi-
can opponent, Sen. John McCain,
for declaring, "The fundamentals of
our economy are strong." Obama's
team painted the veteran senator as
out of touch and failing to grasp the
challenges facing the country. .
WASHINGTON
Outrage sounded
over AIG bonuses
Leaders of the White House eco-
nomic team and the Senate's top
Republican bellowed about bonuses
at a bailed-out insurance giant and
pledged to prevent such payments
in the future.
From one Sunday talk show to
the next, they tore into the con-
tracts that American International
Group asserted had to be honored,
to the tune of about $165 million
and payable to executives by Sun-
day, even as the company has ben-
efited from more than $170 billion
in a federal rescue.
AIG has agreed to Obama
administration requests to restrain
future payments. Treasury Secre-
tary Timothy Geithner pressed the
president's case with AIG's chair-
man, Edward Liddy, last week.
"He stepped in and berated them,
gdt them to reduce the bonuses fol-
lowing every legal means he has
to-do'this," said Austan Goolsbee;
staff director of President Barack
Obaia's Economic RecoveryAdvi-
sory Board.
KABUL, Afghanistan
Bomb kills 4 U.S.
soldiers in eastern
Afghanistan
Aroadsidebombkilled fourAmer-
ican soldiers in eastern Afghanistan
yesterday - new evidence of rising
violence in a region where clashes
and attacks in the first two months
of 2009 more than doubled from the
same period a year ago.
The spike in violence along the
border is an early indication that
roadside bombs and other ambush-
es are likely to surge as thousands of
new U.S. forces arrive in Afghani- '

stan this year.
Brig. Gen. Richard Blanchette, a
spokesman for the NATO-led force
here, confirmed that. a roadside
bomb killed four U.S. troops in east-
ern Afghanistan. A U.S. statement
indicated the troops were based in
Jalalabad.
A suicide bomber, meanwhile,
attacked a NATO convoy in Kabul
on Sunday but instead killed two
passers-by - among18 people killed
Sunday, officials said.
EAST LANSING, Mich.
City authorities
look to fix riot laws
Authorities want to fine-tune the
city ordinance against rioting.
The existing law in part defines
a rioter as someone who assembles
or acts "in concert with four or
more other persons for the purpose
of engaging in conduct constituting
the crime of riot... "
Police Chief Tom Wibert says
that leaves "a lot of room for inter-
pretation," and he's supporting
revised language more specific to
riot-related behavior.
Wihert tells the Lansing State
Journal that the new categories
would include throwing' objects,
taunting police, discharging fire
extinguishers, "mooning" people
and wearing a gas mask to avoid the
effects of tear gas..
The amendments are being pro-
posed almost a year after Cedar
Fest, which attracted 4,000 people,
resulted in at least S5 arrests.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Ross School opens its doors

By EMILY ORLEY The ribbon-cutting ceremony
Daily StaffReporter culminates many years of plan-
ning and construction that left
It only took $145 million. the Business School community
But after three years in the mak- fragmented throughout campus.
ing, the Stephen M. Ross School "It creates a sense of commu-
of Business officially opened the nity," Business senior Josh Cipkala-
doors to its new home last Friday Gaffin said of the building. "For the
at a ribbon-cutting ceremony. pastfewyearsour classes havebeen
Stephen M. Ross, after whom all over; now it is a one-stop shop."
the building was named, counted After the ribbon cutting, the
down as he, President Mary Sue crowd moved inside to hear
Coleman and Business Dean Rob- remarks from Ross, Coleman and
ert J. Dolan stood on the steps of Dolan. Ross spoke about his vision
the new building and prepared to for the school, laughing when he
cut the blue ribbon emblazoned referred to the building bearing
with the school's name. his name.
Ross' $100 million donation "Today it is greatto see what we
funded the majority of the build- set out to do," Ross said. "We've
ing's construction - the largest created a home for the best busi-
single donation to the University ness school in the world."
in the school's history. The new building, located at 701
As Ross counted down to zero, Tappan St., is laden with some of the
a roar of applause could be heard most advanced technology around.
from the crowd of faculty, stu- Coleman referred to the build-
dents and alumni who had gath- ing as "a signature resource for
ered for the event. the school."

TOURNAMENT
From Page1A
was also feeling the pressure.
"I told Coach (John) Mahoney
after the second (regional) that
we were probably going to be in
the last group, not really believing
it, but just kind of trying to psych
myself out," Jackson said.
When Michigan's name
appeared on the screen, the Wol-
verines jumped out of their seats
on the sideline and hugged each
other in a team huddle.
The lowerbowlwas mostlyfull a
half hourbefore the selection show,
and the Jumbotron was dropped to
about 10 feet from the floor so fans
could easily watch the broadcast.
When Beilein did an interview with
CBS 15 minutes before the start of
the selection show, he had to cover
his right ear because the Crisler
crowd was so loud.
Beilein joins Lefty Driesell,
Eddie Sutton, Tubby Smith, Rick
Pitino, Lon Kruger and Jim Her-
rick as coaches who have taken
four different teams to the NCAA
Tournament.
"We were hugging so many
people," Beilein said. "I don't
know if I saw the looks on (the
players') faces. There was a lot of
joy in the room. There was a lot of

passion out there."
The selection is the program's
21st all-time NCAA Tournament
appearance, and Michigan has a
41-19 overall record in the tourna-
ment. The bid comes just one year
after the Wolverines finished with
a dismal 10-22 record in Michigan
coach John Beilein's first season.
The Wolverines' strong RPI
(44) and strength of schedule (11)
were key to earning a bid. Non-
conference wins over Duke and
UCLA and Big Ten wins against
Illinois, Purdue and twice against
Minnesota, all teams that made
the tournament, also helped
Michigan's cause.
Despite sitting on the bubble
for the past few weeks, the Wol-
verines essentially locked a bid
after topping Iowa 73-45 in the
first round of the Big Ten Tour-
nament on Thursday. Even after
dropping its quarterfinal match-
up against Illinois, Merritt was
confident that Michigan had done
enough to earn a bid.
"Hopefully. I think we've made
a case," said Merritt when asked
Friday "We've played everybody
this year, haven't strayed away
from playing anybody. We've com-
peted in a tough conference. It's,
one of the best in the country."
Michigan could be difficult for
any tournament team to handle.

Dolan added that the new school
will help to improve the level of
education at the Business School.
"We have a distinctive approach
to education based around action
based learning and you need a
different kind of facility to sup-
port that work," Dolan said. "The
amount of space dedicated to
informal gathering right here in
the Winter Garden and the num-
ber of group study rooms, that was
really the kind of functionality
that we didn't have before."
Ross said he believes the Uni-
versity business community will
continue to rise to the occasion
and become the global business
school of the future.
However, Ross said that while
the physical construction is com-
plete, the school will not stop
being innovative.
"The school will continue to
build in order to make sure we
are creating future leaders of the
world," he said.
There aren't many teams who play
as much 1-3-1 and 2-3 zone defense
as the Wolverines. Michigan also led
the Big Ten in 3-pointers attempted,
meaning if the Wolverines get hot
from behind the arc, they have the
potential to go onbig runs.
The Wolverines were on the
other 'side of the tournament
bubble in 2007 after they fin-
ished with a 21-12 record. A pair
of losses to top-ranked Ohio State
in their regular-season finale and
the quarterfinals of the Big Ten
Tournament diminished their
tournament hopes.
In 2006, Michigan was 16-3
before losingsix of its last eight reg-
ular season games. The Wolverines
then lost to Minnesota in the first
round of the Big Ten Tournament.
Michigan settled for the Nation-
al Invitation Tournament in both
seasons, losing to South Carolina
in the title game in 2006. The Wol-
verines won the NIT in 2004.
In 1998, the last time Michigan
earned an NCAA Tournament
berth,.Beilein was in his first year
as head coach at Richmond and
freshman guard Stu Douglass was
seven years old.
Although Beilein said making
the tournament in his second year
with the Wolverines 'is ahead of
his initial rebuildingprocess, both
the team and fans appear ready.

DAVIDSON
From Page 1A
Davidson has given more than
$55 million to the University,
with $30 million going toward the
founding the WDI.
Coleman wrote that Davidson's
impact on the University commu-
nity will "last for generations."
"His generosity as an adviser, a
business executive and a philan-
thropist enhanced the teaching
and research experience for U-M
students and faculty," she wrote.
"He did not hesitate to share his
knowledge and expertise, and our
university is stronger for it."
Davidson also gave $20 million to
the Weizmann Institute of Science in
Rehovot, Israel, funded the William
Davidson Graduate School of Jew-
ish Education in New York, and pur-
chased the DetroitPistons for around
$7millionin 1974fromFred Zollner.
When Davidson bought the
team it was considered by many
to be a dying franchise. But during
his time as owner, Davidson trans-
formed the program that is today
worth $500million. Detroit Pistons
head coach Michael Curry wrote in
DEBATE
From Page 1A
have a maximum of one and a half
minutes to answer. There will be no
rebuttals,but Page willbe permitted
to ask follow-up questions.
Presidential candidates will be
given a minute and a half for an
opening statement and two min-
utes for a closing statement.
MSA Election Director Emily
Winter, who helped organize the
debate, said questions will be on
subjects like how the current econ-
omy will affect students, how the
future president will make MSA
more transparent and the direc-
tion each candidate sees MSA mov-
ing toward in the future.
Current MSA Vice President
Arvind Sohoni and Jason Raymond,
rules and elections committee chair,
also helped to organize the event.
Page said he will select "salient
and challenging questions from
a stack of questions submitted by
interested students."
Winter said she thinks the can-
didates for this election have more
focused goals for MSA than in
years past, which she said should
make the debate more interesting.
"I think the parties this year are
really into this election and really
have clear visions for what they
want to do on campus," she said.

Monday, March 16, 2009 - 3A
a statement that he and the rest of
the team are "deeply saddened" by
the news of Davidson's death.
"He's been a great owner who
genuinely cared for players, coach-
es and employees," Curry wrote.
"He will not only be remembered
as a great owner but also as a per-
son who made a difference in many
people's lives. Our thoughts and
prayers are with Mrs. D and the
entire Davidson family."
When Davidson was inducted
into the Basketball Hall of Fame in
September, Pistons President Joe
Dumars said Davidson was a great
man, the Detroit News reported:
"It was just a great, great, great
comfort for me to know I had
someone who was the owner of
the Pistons who just epitomized
everything you wanted in a great
owner: incredible character, hon-
est, straightforward," Dumars said.
"When someone is a trailblazer, a
risk-taker, an innovator, that per-
son should be recognized. If any
person deserves to be in there (in
the Hall of Fame), it's this guy right
here. It's Bill Davidson."
- The Associated Press
contributed to this report.
"So I think it'll give the debate an
actual debate atmosphere. I think
there will be a lot more talking
about issues rather than focusing
on nitty-gritty stuff."
Though an MSA debate is notheld
every year - it has been an on-again
off-again tradition in recent election
cycles - the Election Board decided
tohostonethisyearduetothestrong
interestvoiced by the candidates.
The inclusion of vice presiden-
tial candidates, however; has not
occurred inrecenthistory.The deci-
sion to include vice presidential can-
didates was largely based on party
concerns that the position should
not be overlooked, Winter said.
"In the past, things can hap-
pen and presidents can decide to
resign," she said. "And (the candi-
dates) felt like it was an important
position and that their point of
views should be included."
Winter said she thinks includ-
ing the vice presidential candidates
will help better inform students
about each party, as they will hear
platform positions "from different
people."
Page said the candidates have
taken interest in important issues,
.which he thinks will make the
debate interesting.
"I expect a lively, interesting
debate," he said. "The parties have
staked out compelling issues. Stu-
dents should attendthis; it'llbefun."

AccontingMS.A.
Biology MS.
Biostatistics MS.
Business Administration MA.
Coll and Molecular Biology M.S
Communications MS
Computer Information Systems MS
CriminalJusticeM MS.
ESucationM.EES.
M.Ed.-Reading /a ago As
SchoolCounseling,orSpecialEducation
Educational Specialist in Leadership Ed.S.
Engineering M.S.E.
English M.A.
Hea/th Administration M.H.A.
Health Sciences M.H.S
Medicaland ioiafora ts MS.
Nursing M.S. N.
Occupationa Therapy M.S
PhysicaTherapy D.RT
Physician Assistant Studies M.E A.S
P"bcAdSmi stratio M.PA
S aWton M.S.W
Taxation, M.SET

EXCELLENT CHOICE. Grand Valley offers 80 areas of
study in 26 respected graduate programs, including
business, education, engineering, and health care. U.S.
News and World Report rated us first in the Best
Universities-Master's category in their review of up-and-
coming schools in the Midwest in part because of
our reputation for academic excellence, outstanding
faculty, and affordable tuition. Call or visit online to learn
more about the programs, people, and partnerships that
make Grand Valley an excellent choice for a graduate
degree. gvsu.edu/grad 616.331.2025
GTRANDVALLEY
STATE UNIVERSITY

SPEN AT 1AM
FREE
GREEN EGGS & IAE*
$3.50 Green Beer ALL DAY!
$2.SS Shut Specials!.
Wing Special ALL DAY!
WRIF Live10 p.m.-Midnight
YOU HAVE TO BE HERE TM
2055 . State Si. ANN ARBOR
*3497sp143p
buffalowildwings'com
*While supplies last


4 A

A

A


4A - Monday, March 16, 2009

4 MdaMrU20The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

l e 4frIC4Igan aily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard Sc.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

0

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All othersigned articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A box office hit
New 'U' film office will bring benefits to students, economy
onsidering the quality of Rob Schneider's past movies, the
fact that he's filming his latest in Ann Arbor probably won't
add anything to campus's cultural prestige. Thankfully,
better quality movies may be coming to campus. That's because
the University just recently announced the creation of a film office
to assist studios interested in making movies on campus. With the
state economy floundering, the Ann Arbor bubble can only remain
intact for so long. Encouraging filmmakers to choose Ann Arbor is
a great way to stimulate the local economy. In addition to this, the
film office should also work with studios to create more opportuni-
ties for students who want to be involved with these films.

I suspect that the Republican party would love to see
me travel through the Amazon ... and maybe get lost.
- President Barack Obama, commenting on a suggestion that he begin a tour of
Brazil with a trip to the rainforest, as reported on Saturday by Reuters.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI IOUT T PA STURE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
* **8
wouldliste to u if w wereDon't took at e eifethat.
Sland flashbare (?raw i ft
Scf Z 0E*Sr impt inenda '.nenedia re
d0
MITII 1;111 , HIT I

e

Rewriting the books

The University has been swamped with
requests for filming on campus following
the passage of the Michigan Motion Picture
Incentive Program last spring. This pro-
gram offers a 40 percent tax credit to large
filmmaking projects in Michigan, allowing
studios to cut back on cast, crew and other
production costs. Since this incentive went
into effect, there has been a spike in filming
around the state, including in Ann Arbor,
and plans for Michigan-based studios have
already been proposed. The University's
new office, while not a profitable endeavor,
hopes to streamline the process for film-
makers to shoot on campus.
The most beneficial part of encourag-
ing film 'production in Ann Arbor is the
economic boon a large movie production
would bring to the community. The local
support system that comes with the arrival
of a large film crew stimulates local busi-
nesses. Unless these crews plan on living
in tents and eating canned food, increased
patronage at local bars, restaurants and
hotels will result from the arrival of film
crews in the city.
But the University's new film office
should make an effort not only to help
filmmakers obtain access to University

locations for shooting, but also to encour-
age the hiring of arts majors seeking a
career in the film industry. Not only does
this help retain Michigan students in need
of.jobs, but it also keeps breathing life into
Ann Arbor's cultural identity - one that
already includes the Ann Arbor Film Festi-
val - by keeping young, talented artists of
various kinds in the city despite economic
woes statewide. Motivated filmmakers,
artists and performers have the chance
to take advantage of the opportunities at
their doorstep.
The effort to bring in filmmakers should
also be considered an investment in the
University's exposure. Film crews find out
how great the University community is and
audiences across the country get a glimpse
of what it means to go to school here.
University officials are making the
right move to help establish Ann Arbor as
a hot spot for movie material. While not
every movie made in Ann Arbor will be an
award-winning masterpiece, the increased
presence of the film industry in the city
is an encouraging bright spot for those
who wish to use the creative talents they
learned at the University without leaving
the area.

W hen I saw a small, unfa- modern trends, the straight-up phat
miliar textbook lying on publisher rocked the illest research, and,
the coffee table at home like, kicked it with some student inter-
a couple of weeks views and what not.
ago, I didn't think How very dope.
too much of it. My The publisher's research indicat-
mother is a sociol- ed that students feel textbooks are
ogy professor and "boring," "outdated" and "irrelevant
honestly, I've seen to me." But throw in some Beyonce,
too many editions "Juno" and Kanye, and boom - rele-
of too many soci- vance city. The publisher is just trying
ology texts lying to understand its consumers and give
around the house. them whatthey want. What could ever
But this book was IMRAN be wrongwith that?
different. SYED Well, plenty - not the least of which
I can describe it is that a college education simply must
to you, but to really not devolve to the studied consum-
know what I'm talk- erization of cable news or designer
ing about, go to amazon.com and look handbags. Dictating what you already
it up: "SOC" by Jon Witt. With a flashy understand kind of defeats the pur-
cover that's more "Teen Vogue" than pose of an education, no? Simply put,
any textbook in your school bag, the as a college student, I felt insulted by
book even had those little blurbs that the assumptions at work in the cre-
magazine covers have about the sto- ation of "SOC."
ries inside. Sure, instead of "20 bright I don't need gimmicks to read my
beauty ideas to try" or "Spring fash- textbooks, and I definitely don't need
ion at every price!" this cover had bits Diddy or iPhone references every
like "Sociology is a verb," but exciting other page to stay engaged. I know
nonetheless. Right? publishing is a business and selling is
Falling for the gimmick, I began the game, but we'd all be better off if
flipping thropgh the book. Introduc- education didn't go the way of a Mr.
ing the author was a fill-in-the-blanks Alan's "$29-or-two-for-$50" sale.
questionnaire with scribbly answers, The central question is simple. Is
similar to the American Express mag- education something we bring down
azine ads featuring celebs like Jerry to our level, or should we work up to
Seinfeld. Every so often, features like its level? If education is about the bet-
"Pop Soc" and "At the Movies" crop terment of individuals, then surely the
up, just in case you can't understand, latter is the smarter choice. The phi-
for example, the concept of "The Indi- losophy at work in "SOC," however, is
vidual and Society" without a Harry clearly the former, because publish-
Potter reference. Capping it all off was ers have incentives to advertise their
a back cover inviting students to check products as responsive to students'
out the author's blog. needs. Professors and students must
Dude's got a blog! not falter in our duty to decide which
Why would a publisher feel the need products improve the educational
to make a textbook that resembles a experience and which ones are simply
magazine? Luckily, the book's inside ploys to feign responsiveness for the
flap had the answer, which I'll relay sake of better book sales.
by Iaraphrasing it in the language the There's an old book in my basement
publisher clearly supposes students'. that I took from my elementary school
are always using: Being totally hip to years ago when the book was about

to be thrown out. Printed in 1937,
"Where Our Ways of Living 'Come
From" is a sociology text of sorts. In
the introduction, it says it provides a
new approach to grade school social
studies that eliminates older materi-
als that' students found meaningless.
Sound familiar?
Why textbooks
shouldn't need to
be 'pimped out'.
Flipping through the old book, I
found that the thinking that went into
it isn't so different from "SOC." The
authors of "Our Ways of Living" also
tried to target their audience better by
making the book more appealing and
interesting.
The difference is that they did it by
rewriting the material, by broadening
the perspectives presented and by sug-
gesting and tying in classroom activi-
ties. "SOC" doesn't seem to do any of
those: It's simply a repackaging of the
same textual material with snazzy
celeb photos and multiple uses of the
word "blog".
Nevertheless, "SOC" may still be as
competently written a textbook as any
that I've recycled for my mother. It's
simply that I worry about the philoso-
phy behind its creation. While we ben-
efit from the personalization of many
things, I'm not sure Twitterizing edu-
cation is going to work out so well for
any of us.
And, in case you're interested, I too
am still trying to figure out how sociol-
ogy is a verb.
- Imran Syed was the Daily's
editorial page editor in 2007. He can
be reached at galad@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari;Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
E IT R SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Diesel -not the answer to turbocharging, downsizing and homogeneous
charge compression ignition, gasoline engines
promise to approach diesel efficiency while
Detroitsproblems emitting less nitrogen oxides and being light-
er-weight, which in turn allows for lighter car
TO THE DAILY: structures.
Ben Caleca makes several strong points in Caleca's other comparisons with Europe are
his column (Detroit, go Diesel, 03/13/09). The absolutely on target. We should focus on active
one in the title, however, is not one of them. safety - that is, preventing cars from crashing.
Five years ago, I would have agreed to "go The answer is largely technological (intelligent
diesel." But now it is clear that diesel is at the sensors and control systems), but mainly social
end of its lifeline for light-duty vehicles. The (comprehensive driver training).
fact is that innovation in diesel is going toward In addition to on-the-road skills, main-
improving emissions instead of making for- tenance and eco-driving, driver's educa-
ward leaps in fuel efficiency. Diesel efficiency tion should educate new drivers about the
is peaking, so to speak. true cost to the environment in producing
Gasoline engines are also on their way vehicles and in burning fossil fuels, and then
out - we are on to the electrified car, hope- demonstrate practical, local ways to avoid
fully without the diversion of a hydrogen the use of cars in most everyday situations.
"scam" economy. But gasoline engines are fast
improving' in fuel efficiency by implementing Eric Sauck
diesel-like technology. With direct injection, Engineeringsenior
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its own future on campus, the Daily would
like students to voice their opinions on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU
ALLIE WILLS iV ngWP o l tNT
Finding toler ance through faith

0

JASON MAHAKIAN

E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU


De to the current economic criss
I wtsasaininstateshould55
t ay ocut dieon sm'etings?
Got any ideas
n so muc
w

HA HA HA
drink less?hNaha Good one, man!
but no seriously
d efieytxt book
lyru-
"6 / '

I have always been Christian and religious. I can't
remember a time when I'didn't believe in God. I grew up
in a conservative Presbyterian church that had a "love the
sinner, hate the sin" attitude toward homosexuality, so
when I came out to myself as queer at 16, 1 was devastated.
At first, I considered celibacy, which was my church's only
answer to homosexuality. I would have done it if I had
been sure it was what God wanted, but something nagged
at my brain. How could it be a sin? Who was I hurting?
Why would God have made me queer if I was supposed to
spend my whole life fighting it? I considered fighting it for
a while and then started looking for other options.
I found out that a lot of denominations, my own includ-
ed, have groups of churches that accept lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender and queer people without asking
us to change. I visited all different kinds of churches:
Methodist, Lutheran, United Church of Christ and Pres-
byterian. I began to believe that homosexuality was not
a sin - that God loves and accepts people regardless of
their sexuality. Jesus, after all, said nothing about homo-
sexuality and spenthis time with all sorts of people on the
fringes of society.
Still, I had considered getting ordained for a long time,
and if that was what God was asking of me, I wanted a
church in which I could get ordained without having to
be celibate. This narrowed my search down to the Epis-
copal, Unitarian Universalist and Metropolitan Commu-
nity Churches. I tried a local Episcopal Church and fell in
love almost instantly. Sexuality was talked about openly,
I was allowed to be a Sunday school teacher and the priest
herself wss in a committed, same-sex relationship. I was
confirmed into the Episcopal Church in June of 2009 and
it felt like coming home.
Coming to college, I was afraid I wouldn't find a reli-
gious community that accepted me the way my first
church had. By the grace of God, I found two: Canterbury

House and St. Clare of Assisi Episcopal Church. The first
time I met St. Clare's parishioners was at an Oasis Even-
song, a service held once a month by and for LGBT people
and our allies. They encouraged me to visita service at St.
Clare's, and sure enough, it me feel at home the moment I
walked through the door.
At Canterbury House, the Episcopal student ministry,
I found another terrific community. The music is wild,
the preaching is radical and you will be welcomed into
the community no matter where you are in life. In it I
have found a Christian community of LGBT people and
our allies. I've gained countless Christian friends, some
LGBT and others straight.
Robin Williams once joked that the best thing about
the Episcopal Church is that, whatever you believe, you
are sure to find someone there who will agree with you.
In some ways, he's right - certainly not everyone in the
Episcopal Church believes LGBT people should be accept-
ed into the life of the-church, and we are still struggling
over whether LGBT people should be bishops. I love the
fact that we can disagree civilly (most of the time), but I
wish everyone could see what I see - LGBT Christians
pray, laugh, cry, worship, work and raise families in the
church just like everyone else.
LGBT people are an integral part of the church. We
have a powerful presence in the life of the church and we
belong in its sacred space as much as anyone else. Cer-
tainly, we have come a long way, but there's still much
more to do. Although it won't be easy, I truly believe that
LGBT people in all faiths have the responsibility of work-
ing to advance our cause in organized religion. We too are
faithful people, and we too deserve the chance to be wel-
comed into our religions the way we are. It's bound to be
an uphill battle, but I know we'll get there.
Allie Wills is an LSA sophomore.

' - lit,/ . ,

,&

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 16, 2009 - 5A

Give me discs,
not downloads

There's something beau-
tiful about a compact
disc. First, there's its
circular shape, which symbolizes
the unending -
cycle of death,
rebirth and a
life of gaming.
Then there's its
art, a teaser of
the wondrous
beauties to be JMSr E
witnessed upon BLOCK
a game's instal-
lation; the physical solidity of the
thing - the fact that you can hold
a disc in your hand and just stare
at it for a minute, letting the feel-
ing sink in: "This game is gonna
be fucking awesome."
But games on discs are slowly
becoming obsolete. The first
things to go are expansion packs,
which, especially on consoles, are
starting to be available exclusively
as downloads. Something just
doesn't feel right about this. The
vicious behemoth some blindly
call "the Internet" is already
devouring physical, paper-bound
books as we know them. Why
does it have to prey on games, too?
Now, the matter is obviously
different for games than it is for
books. When a book is put online,
the format in which people read
it changes. Yet no matter how you
go about buying the game, you
still play it on the same screen.
What the disappearance of the
disc means for gamers is an end
to the wondrous process of buy-
ing a video game and anticipating
playing it.
Some of my favorite childhood
moments were spent in Best Buy.
I would rush into the store and
make a mad dash for the game
I wanted. Once I got my grubby
little fingers on it, I would turn
it over in my hands, reading
every single letter printed on the
shiny and colorful new hox, right
down to the distribution info and
seizure warnings. Once I had
scanned it thoroughly, I would
walk up and down the aisles
looking at the vast array of other
games and watching the bigger
kids play demos, all the while
clutching the box tightly to make
sure nobody tried to steal it.
.As soon as we got back to the
car - if I could wait that long - I
would rip off the plastic and open
the box, finally beholding the disc
itself. As I did with the box's text,
I would diligently scour every
page of the instruction booklet,
stopping only when we got home
and I could finally experience the
game first-hand. These were fun
times.
But today's youth are simul-
taneously spoiled and deprived
by their own impatience. Sure,
when you download a game right
to your system you can play it
right away, but where's the fun in
that? Nobody plays any one game

forever, so it's not like you're los-
ing any play time by going on an
adventure to the store to pick the
game up yourself.
Also, the last thing gamers need
is a way to become even more
sedentary. In the world of yester-
year, you could always buy a game
on Amazon.com.without leaving
your house. But at least you had
to get off the couch and go over to
the computer. And then, when the
game arrived, you had to open the
door to get it, possibly even get-
ting some much-needed fresh air
in the process.
But there's also an economic
aspect to those sneaky game pub-
lishers' decision to move online:
They're killing the used game
market. Sure, you'll still be able
to sell your old Xbox and Game-
cube games, but for how long?
As newer systems come out, the
market for retro gamingbecomes
narrower and narrower. And the
older the system, the harder it is
to find a functioning console.
Games that are downloaded
can't be bought and sold after
the initial purchase. They're on
Taking games
out of stores
takes the heart
out of games.
.your hard drive, and that's where
they're staying. It's a sinisterly
clever move by the game compa-
nies, who are basically assuring
themselves financially by mak-
ing everyone who wants to play
a game on their own console by
their own copy. You can't even
horrow from a friend anymore.
The advent of the downloadable
game is going to have unforesee-
able consequences on stores like
GameSpot and the local Get Your
Game On, so I won't attempt to
foresee their futures with any
particular degree of specificity.
But suffice it to say this: A store
that sells video games will have a
hard time making it when video
games are no longer sold in stores.
Duh.
Whether you're a retro kid
like me who thinks that discs
and game boxes are just plain
pretty or a hardcore gamer who's
worried that he won't be able to
mooch his friend's copy of the
next "Grand Theft Auto," there's
something just plain wrong about
selling games solely via down-
load. Besides, the Internet is
probably just a fad.

School in France: Pretty good actuall

At the top of its class

'The Class' offers a gritty,
realistic view of teaching in
inner-city schools
By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
The line between truth and fiction is expertly
manipulated in "The Class," a
French docudrama that won
the Golden Palm at last year's
Cannes Film Festival. The class
The film is about the teach-
er of an inner-city middle At the
school in Paris and his stu- Michigan
dents, who hail from several Sony
different racial and socioeco-
nomic backgrounds. Director Laurent Cantet

("Heading South") achieves an incredible sense
of realism for a scripted film, thanks to constant
improvisation, use of non-professional actors
and fly-on-a-wall filmmaking techniques. "The
Class" will transport even the most jaded view-
ers back to the trials and turmoil of their middle
school years.
The source material for the film is a 2006
semi-autobiographical novel by former teacher
Francois Begaudeau. Begaudeau co-wrote the
screenplay and stars as the teacher in "The
Class" who is also named Francois.
His students are played by the real-life stu-
dents at the school where the movie was filmed.
The students gave up five weeks of their sum-
mer vacation to sit in a cramped classroom and
be filmed yelling at their "teacher." When kids
are sacrificing their vacations in the name of
higher art, something magical must be at work.
The students' parents in the film, who make

brief appearances during parent-teacher confer-
ences, also play themselves. Their scenes high-
light ever-present cultural borders between
teacher and parent - when Frangois attempts
to tell one mother about her boy's troublemak-
ing habits, he is distraught to find she doesn't
speak French.
For its first half, "The Class" refuses to devel-
op a coherent storyline, instead dealing frankly
with the many issues that present themselves
in the educational system. In focusing on little
details like the effort it takes Francois to quiet
his students at the start of class every day, "The
Class" further cements its status as a refresh-
ingly realistic tale about the educational sys-
tem. There are no angel-like.Robin Williams or
Edward James Olmos types barreling in with
their amazing teaching abilities to sweep the .
students off their feet. Here the kids are often
See THE CLASS, Page SA

Fighting to relive pop-punk's heyday

Rem.
ruled t
Bands1
Charlot
ple Plan
41 c
the con
boy-ban
by addi.
and sci
to their
reperto
result, t

By DAVID RIVA the top of the "TRUL" charts, made
DailyArts Writer countless girls scream and placed
the Warped Tour high atop many
ember when pop-punk teenagers' summer to-do lists.
he world? Then something predictable
like Good * happened: The novelty of three-
te, Sim- minute songs with three-chord
and Sum New Found guitar progressions wore off. By
hallenged 2004, spiky hair and nasally vocals
aventional Glory were a thing of the past.
id mold Not Without But New Found Glory didn't
ngguitars a Fight seem to notice. The band success-
ssor kicks Epitaph fully defied the odds and remained
on-stage a relevant relic in a fading scene.
ires. As a Tireless work ethic and relentless
hey consistently climbed to touring have earned the band a cult

following and made it one of pop- from this overused and often stale
punk's elite acts. subject matter or the traditional
On Not Without a Fight, NFG verse-chorus-verse-bridge-chorus
continues to spread its infec- formula. It shouldn't come as a sur-
prise. Pop-punk has never been an
overly progressive genre, favoring
Success be a consistent, fan-friendly sound
over musicainnovation.
danred. The classic NFG sound is alive
. and well on "Don't Let Her Pull
You Down." The song's chugging
guitar and continuous repetition of
tious sound with fist-pumping the title are dangerously similar to
sing-alongs about girls, broken "My Friends Over You," the band's
hearts and failed relationships. most recognizable single. Still, the
The album never deviates too far See NEW FOUND GLORY, Page 8A

.4

A

a A '


6A- Monday, March 16, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

0

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
72t S. Fret
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
89 Brwn
Call today....734-761-800Q
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent 4
060
4 ELEVEN Lofts ! - win FREE
HOUSING for a year. - Just tour the
model at 400 E.Washington (@ Divi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter or call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcny. FREE
HO directs with DVR service & nter-
net included w/ each apt. game rai,
fitness rom and much more. 741-9300
www.annarbrapartments.net
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near B-school.
offstreet prkg. lndry. Avail. Fall'09.
($2000/mo.) 734.223.7777.
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quietwcm- Hignse -Gn bvoddwmCarnpA
Cal BranTorsic
734-663-1530
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible locastion! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. -Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacius, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
GET FREE PARKING whereavail-'
able when yu sign a new lease by
March 31st. That s a $300savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
~Vairsity
Management
625 Church St.
f734) 668-1100
We've got neie, sunny, large apartments,
and unlike the other's, we include utilities
nd parking tr mwttloctins
Studios,d ,2 & 3 bedroms sl vallable
www.varsitwymnagement acom

OldTown Realt
WilsonWhite Houses Available
M NA NAG E M for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
P t
Alvailable Fall 8 Bedroom House
2009 428 Hamilton PI. $4,400
 Bedrooms 7 Bedroom Houses
727 $ 0 406 E. Jefferson $3,850
915 Oakland$2 1220 Prospect $3,850
 Packard$5 334 Catherine $3,850
205 N. Division $1995
6 Bedroom House
SBedroos 952 Greenwood $3,600
-* *1 . (May or Fall Lease)

coupon for every new tour!!

--- I

4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2;300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
1300 Broadway $2400
Offering a $500.00
gift card to a store of
your choice with every
signed lease of these
available houses!!

'CORNER HOUSE APIS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully'furnished, lot ofcluset
space, garage pkg,dHO Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarhorapartments.net
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bush, full -basement a/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
Apartments Available)

4 Barm. apt at i 2Synil, 1-. eerm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
**AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Avail.
Fall '09. near Yost Arena. offstreet
prkg, Indry. ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
*830 SYLVAN 3 bdrm. Near Cent.
Camp. & B-school. Hardwood firs. At-
tached garage. Prkg. Aug. '09. $1575.
Ldry. & Dryer. 248-515-7440.
*AVAIL SEPT 1ST 2009. 2 bdrmt
*uAsean State St across from Yost
arena. Furn, free pkg, wshr/dryer, dish-
washer. Signing bonus. Call now for
immed showming 734-434-6356.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLYA FEWAVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! ,his special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're
gone! universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680-
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin idry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
LESS THAN 7 - make an offer. fall
09. 1129 White St. 3 bath, 2 kitchens,
6 prkg. spaces',rpaveddrive and lot. By
Packard and Arch. $3400 neg. plus ttl.
734-996-1991-
SWionWhite

3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Parn. heat/water ittcl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties 810-231 -0229.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,.
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ]dry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@/aol.com
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.'
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens. 6 prkg. spaces., paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
1 BDRM. & EFEAPTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 20091
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm,
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site of www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 B~edrooms!
Furnished teat & waer itelded,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 priIeslltcoe
*Amenities varies by location

We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
wwwunaiversitytwers-mi.com
University
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Managetent, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialie
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful l bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors. bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
LARGE FUR'NISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
I1I1I1 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. NowtrFal 2009. Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1450-S1750,No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng rcomcast.net
xvC the pyre
Owuled and6 .
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartmnents.net
or visit US at
- 1700 GeddeS Ave.

CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard '(Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.coai
campus awilsonwhitemanagement.com
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
=$15,000
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
= $16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675.$925.
Most incl.,heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
iver view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

6

6

loww,,Bartonbrook.cojn, 734-665-5621

I I

RELEASE DATE- Monday, March 16, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Siberian plain 39 Keep from 50 Weird
1 Bands' sample 6 __-Bismol happening 52 Antiknock
tapes , 7 Sport _: family 40 Up to, in ads agent
6 Cougar vehicle 41 Couple 54 Poems of
10 Backpack stuff 8 Speed-of-sound 45 John, Paul or praise
14 Highly skilled ratio George 55 Bailiff's request
15 And others, for 9 Voice above tenor 46 Casino game 57 Snippety
short 10 "Scram!" 47 Round gaskets 58 Anthem
16 Ye __ Tea 11 With 24-Down, 48 Vowel sound beginning
Shoppe The King represented by 59 Electric co.
17 Bad-mouth an 12 Cherish an upside-down 60 Dalyof "Judging
Aretha Franklin 13 Descartes and . "e" Amy"
classic? Russo 49 Case in court 63 Health resort
19 Bard's river 18 Positive (about)
20 "Dbn't move a 22 Subject for ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
muscle", debate
21 Statawihout a 24See11-Down P L O D B A K E S U S E S
key 26 Portend R ILE O V A TIE N O TIE
23Actor'said 27Armygroup E V E R L O B A R E L OI
25 Desert rest stops 28 Loch with S E ARB I S C U I T QU I Z
26 Thrill-seeker's sighing A N N I E H A L L R U B L E
cord 28 Tanklfiller
30 Raw-voiced 31 Communications G E N E S E T D I A L E R
33 Fit to be drafted codeuword for A E R A S V I C T I M L E S S
34 Second-largest 32 _,,Na Na I10 T A S
Indincity 34Pickleherb KNI C K KNACK R H O S
35 Trident-shaped 35 French singer N O R R I S T I M E I N C
Greek lehter Edtih (The Littl
38Rapa Roslling Spars n AMOUR T R I M E S T E R
Stonesuclassic? 38 Duet minusdone V I N S F E C L A T C A S E
42 Alf and Mork, 37 "Be Honestf- I N A T U N R I G ACT E
briefly You're Not That S E G A S T A T E T H A N
43 Luxurious _ Him Either": H E E L SONY S S I R S
residence Ian Kerner
44 Poet Whitman best-seller xwordeditor@aol.com 03/16/09
45 Lovely woman 1 z a a ns e 0 a 10 11 12 13
46 Miss Piggy's
poodle . 14 15 1s
480One in a
cow ke's herd 17 I 8 I I 9
51 Whatacake 21 22
candle often
represents 23 24 25
53 Maker


6 4

61 1 CHURCH;
BRAND NEW
APARTMENTS
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
( pscale 5 bedroom
aal atrents 0 i1 1
Ckurcb! Tke) are
new constructej 5
bedroom, 2.5 batk
apartments, w/th al
tie f3teeIt 317J rea test.
alJmenltre , list a
wasker and JrIter in
uinit!

adline for line ads iS 11:3am onebusiness day prior to pubication. ClaSSification:
010 - Lost Founc

Rates: $4.
additional C
contact our,
ads are plac
busress ad:
have been e

30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
nsecutive issue. Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
staff for details * Students may receivea 25% discount when
ed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational non-
s only) * All ads must be prepad jrles pro rbiling pryages
stablished We accept VisaMastercard, American Express,

- Automotive
- Corputers
- Technology
- Furniture
- For Rent

DisOver, cash, or chec
of our Account ExeCuti

ified Display advertising, please call on

1 day 2 days 3 days

4 days 5 days

56 Use LSD, slangily 26 27 2 29 03132
61 "Coton Candy'
trumpeter in 3A 35 36 37
62 Pan a Billy Joel
classic? 86 - 36 34 as
64 Cry mournfully 2
65 Catch sightof
66 Gristmill fodder as46 47
87 Opposeeof
aweather ms 4 s 1 52
68 Barking swimmer
69 Elegnceof 53 54 55 56 57 58 5 e60
dress
6 2 63
DOWN
1 Root beerbrand6
2 Work for Money, 68766
maybe
3 Tableland
4 Grand Ole -- Jerome esnderse s03/16/09
(c209iusneeMdia eriesi,sInc. 1/61

2 lines 8.6C
3 lines 12.
4 lines 1721
Policies:
Abbreviations:Only st
TMD for failure to pubs

- Help Wanted
- Summer Employr
-Child Care
- TicketS & Travel
Announcements
- Websites
- Music

6
6
0

iations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability
ment for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified is s
equent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. T
isement errors only if notified by H: pr on the first day of publcatic
an rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended a a
in ful by 11 30 am on originalyscheduled ending date Refunds:
yubication deadine, but no refund wl be given unless the ad has no
sabect to eding andsaroval. e do not oublish advertisements fo

Rates: A

- Roomma
- Food & E
Personal
Pets

ainment

Ished. Refusal: A

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

I

I

4

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

iT

Monday, March 16, 2009 - 7A


The n
ENDOWMENT the endo
From Page 1A or othe
These i
prised
tant that students, faculty, admin- endowm
istrators, alumni and everyone tially loa
else connected to the University collects
understand how the school's multi- the loan
billion-dollar financial backbone pal amou
actually works. Bonds
this fisc
BILLION-DOLLAR 'BUCKETS' as of Dec
however
Though referred to in the singu- 5.1 percen
lar, the University's endowment - investme
temporarily valued at $6.5 billion as in , bo
of Dec. 31 - is actually made up of have
over 6,000 different investments. decrease
These investments are orga- due to
nized into asset classes - group- limited
ings of similar kinds of investments gains to
- or "buckets," as University Chief made c
Investment Officer Erik Lundberg pared
often calls them. other ty
The first and most recognizable of inv
bucket is the endowment's equities ments
or stock holdings, which made up the end
just over 20 percent of the endow- ment's
ment as of Dec. 31, according to a portfolio
February investment filing. according
The University invests in both to the 24
domestic andinternationalstocks- Report
the kinds any investor could buy on, Invest-
say, the New York Stock Exchange. ments.
The stocks include online shopping "Abso-
site Amazon.com, oil corporation lute retu
Exxon Mobil, American automak- is a much
er General Motors, British mili- of invest
tary contractor BAE Systems and ing on a
telecommunications giant AT&T, this buc
according to the latest equities her of d
data dated June 30. (For a database strategies
with complete endowment equities investors
information for the past five fiscal with whi
years, go to michigandaily.com.) includes
So far this fiscal year between bills, hi
July 1 and Dec. 31, the endowment's securitie
equities have recorded staggering as well
losses of nearly 37 percent while mhergers
also posting losses of 6 percent ings. Th
last fiscal year. The University's to try to
investment team has also sought to quarter -
decrease the amount of stock hold- always m
ings in the endowment, accord- of how t
ing to the June 30, 2008 Report of performi
Investments created by the Univer- One st
sity Investment Office. return" i
the michigan daily
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit- FALL
able for 3, prkg + Indry ocl. 2 blocks NISHED
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003. near Ged
Strickland
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime CCRB, U
spot. Heat and water sinc. $1799! ma. Sorority an
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com doorstep. L
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North front port
Campus Affordable reduced rates- Kitcher and
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High wasrn
Street Call today to see your new parking.
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com www.2-5
wwwmich
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully EH.
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered OPPEN
porch & much more. 741-9300. still has ho
www.annarborapartments.net for Fall '0
ing boo:
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4 4 Bedroc
rooms available. Kingsley and State. 816 Brook:
Call (248) 910-2286. 1803 Hill S
506 W Wil
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2140; 5 Bedroom
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103. 401 Lawr
bath. $287
NOW LEASING 401 Lawr
Prime Student Housing bath. $295
761-8000 6 Bedroom
www.primesh.com $3416 Ham
$3500 + uti
Call today to see your new Home! 126 Hill St
1803 Hill S

Efficiencies: All util. pa
344 S. Division 203 Koch.
1 Bedrooms: Please Co
520 Packard www.opp(
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover Spacious
1320 S. University ished hard
2 Bedrooms: bath. Av
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates ONE BED
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates cated in a
1320 S. University hood in th
411 High-Reduced Rates bor. Balct
819 Brown Heat and
torial tour
*Fully Furnished apartment www.smart
*Parking Included or visit out
*Free Ethernet www.mich
* Free heat and water alty, 734-6
(* At most locations)
WW
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus. 1 & 2 b
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net 5 min. wal
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. duplex. 1114 PICTUR
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C. Screen yo
Free ldry. $2650+ util. avail. May. 734- Church "T
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com Offer exp
for details.
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy *Ce
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet, NORTH
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today! Incl. Heat
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com www.HR
TWO 7 B
several on
tact PMSI
3 BDRM
bath, baset
dry. Fridg
I'ea' back. Call2
\4
Fall and
aSpacimu
Free in
Call or
.S
An 4inform
info@pw

ext investment bucket in
twment is "fixed income,"
rwise known, as bonds.
nvestments, which com-
almost 9 percent of the
ent as of Dec. 31, are essen-
ns on which the University
interest and, at the end of
term, is repaid the princi-
nt.
have posted minor losses
al year of almost 1 percent
. 31. In the 2008 fiscal year,
, bonds recorded gains of
nt. Like stocks, endowment
ents
tnds $4
also HIGHER
d TOTHEi
the
$3.63
be
.0
:om-
to E
'pes
eut-
in >
ow- $3.25
g
308
of '2
SOUROCt:(LttT) UMVI~T '
irn," the next asset class,
h more complex grouping
tments. Rather than focus-
single type of investment,
ket is grab bag of a num-
ifferent investments and
s employed by University
and the outside funds
ch they work. This bucket
investments in Treasury
gh-yield bonds and debt
s of struggling companies
as corporate events like
or company restructur-
e goal for this bucket is
post positive gains each
- not incredibly high, but
taking gains ,- regardless
he financial markets are
ng.
trategy used in "absolute
is "long-short" investing,

in which investors buy stocks (oth-
erwise known as taking the long
position) known to perform well
and sell stocks (known as the short
position) performing poorly. As
long as the purchased stocks out-
perform the sold stocks going for-
ward, the investor will gain from
the strategy.
Having posted a 10-percent gain
in the previous fiscal year, positive
returns had almost always been
the case for "absolute return" until
the current fiscal year as of Dec. 31,
in which it has recorded losses of

investment team meets with fund
managers and investors, learns
about their investment strategies
and decides whether or not to work
with that fund. If the University
decides to work with these groups,
its investors commit initial money
to the fund. Unlike stocks or bonds,
however, venture capital and pri-
vate equity commitments usually
span multiple years and sometimes
more than a decade, meaning Uni-
versity investors can't simply yank
their money out of a fund if they so
desired.

team has sought to increase the
percentage of the endowment made
up of venture capital and private
equity investments.
But venture capital and private
equity, too, have suffered losses of
3 percent and almost 10 percent,
respectively, as of Sept. 30. (The most
recent data for the endowment's illiq-
uid assets is Sept. 30 because of a lag
time in calculating illiquid asset val-
ues; liquid assets, on the other hand,
are easier to calculate.)'
The -last two illiquid buckets in
the endowment are real estate and

nearly 21 percent.
The endowment also hasa "cash"
bucket containing cash holdings,
which comprised over 3 percent of.
the endowment as of Dec. 31.
While stocks, bonds and "abso-
lute return" investments are con-
sidered liquid assets - meaning
they can be converted more quickly
and easily into cash - the rest of
the endowment consists of illiquid
assets, which are often investments
in longer term partnerships and
agreements.
Venture capital and private equi-
ty investments - together making
up almost 23 percent of the endow-
ment as of Dec. 31, according to the
February investment filing - are
two types of illiquid investments.
In the case of venture capital
and private equity, the University's

"So the investment period is for
four years," Lundberg explained.
During that period, the fund or
group will "go out and buy a com-
pany, or they'll go out and start
companies, or they will go out and
sponsor entrepreneurs and help
them grow their companies. ... And
when the company's ready, they'll
take it public or they'll sell it to
another company, and then we get
our money back. But it may take 10,
in some cases up to 15 years, from
when the fund starts until it ends."
Historically, the venture capital
and private equity buckets have-
reaped rewards for the endow-
ment, reporting 3- and 5-year
returns anywhere from 16 percent
to 26 percent, according to the 2008
Report of Investments. Not surpris-
ingly, the University's investment

energyinvestments,whichtogether
comprise around 27 percent of the
endowment as of Dec. 31, according
to the February investment filing.
Real estate investments involve
endowment funds being invested
in real estate managers through-
out the United States and the world
who identify property development
opportunities such as buying office
and residential properties and then
improving and reselling them for a
profit.
Though profitable in past years,
real estate investments included in
the endowment have suffered loss-
es of about 7 percent as of Sept. 30.
The final bucket is the endow-
ment's energy investments. The
largest portion of the energy buck-
et, Lundberg explained, is invest-
ments in companies thatbuy oil and

AVAILABILITY:' FUR-
five bedroom house located
des and South University.
s Market, Central Campus,
lniversity Hospital, and all
nd Fraternity Houses at your
Unique attic space and large
ch. Can sleep 6 residents.
highlights include a dish-
d new flooring! Laundry and
Contact Michigan Realty at
500 or
:comrealty.com for details.
!HEIMER PROPERTIES
ouses and large apts. for rent
9. Offering $500-$1000 sign-
us for available properties!
wood. $2700 + util.
t. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. incl.
liams. 2 bath. $2100 + util.
ence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
5+ electric.
ence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
0 + gas and electric.
ton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
i.
.2 bath. $3100+util.
St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
id. May Lease. $3300
2 bath. $2450 + util.
ntact 734-995-5575 or
eheimer properties.com
!!EFFICIENCY!!
s remodeled apt. with refin-
wood floor, new kitchen and
ailable Fall. 734-944-2405.
DROOM AVAILABLE lo-
quaint residential neighbor-
e Old West Side of Ann Ar-
onies, central AC, laundry.
water included. Take our pic-
at
tfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
r website at -
comrealty.com Michigan Re-
62-5500. EHO
W.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
drm., modern, clean, quiet
k, MED, DENT, and Campus
RE THIS...FREE 42" Flat
urs to keep! Sign today; 909
The Abbey". Limited Time-
ires Friday March 20th-Call
. 734-761-8000. primesh.com
rtain conditions apply
CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
/Water/Parking
PAAcom 996-4992.
;DRM. houses available and
e bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
at www.pmsiproperties.com
HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1
ment, wshr./dryer, free laun-
es, front porch & deck in
248-214-8708!
edroom apartments
May leases available.
s apts., great location,
nternet. 912 S. Forest
email Post Realty for
bowing or more
ation: 734K761-8220 or
streatypropertie.com

WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm houses in all
lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
TIRED OF SEARCHING for your
apartment or house? Wilson White
Management offers One Stop Shopping
with hundreds of apartments and
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing
agents are ready to help you the perfect
place to call home on campus. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
ser vices
080
APPLYING TO MED school? Expert
help available for the entire admissions
process from a former admissions com-
mittee member. Email:
intomedschool@gmail.com
DELICIOUS TREATS
DELIVERED - To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/siie
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
NEED HELP WITH programming in
MATLAB and STATA. Will pay if I
can afford your rates. Please write to
sarkarvanor er@gmail.com.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
hel wanted
090
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the 91 and 92 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. 'Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.

!!!BARTENDING!!I $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
PA RTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2'hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in' Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
'exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
per sona l
150
A BABY IS OUR DREAM.
Help fill our home with laughter and
love! We are young, happily married &
hoping to be parents. We care about
you, please call us anytime. Toll free
(877)5387 Erai rn and Tim.

gas fields that are declining in pro-
duction and use advanced extrac-
tion methods to make those oil and
gas fields produce more.
"They maybe drill a few more
wells, but the whole idea is there's
proven oil and gas reserves in there,
and their goal is to get out more
than what the seller could've'gotten
out knowing what they do," Lund-
berg said.
Though the 'energy bucket had
posted a 13-percent loss as of Sept.
30, the endowment's energy invest-
ments reported an astounding 61
percent return in the 2008 fiscal
year, on the back of record oil and
gas prices in the first half of 2008.
On top of that, the energy 'bucket
has recorded 3-year returns of 47
percent and 5-year returns of 56
percent, according to the 2008
Report of Investments.
THE UNIVERSITY'S
FINANCIAL GUARDIANS
Other colleges and universi-
ties with multi-billion-dollar
endowments often employ mas-
sive investment teams - Harvard
Management Company, which
oversees the school's endowment,
pension assets and other invest-
ments, employs over 200 people,
and the University of Texas Sys-
tem's management company has
almost 60 employees listed on its
website.
The University of Michigan
Investment' Office, ' located in
downtown Ann Arbor, is a bit more
tight-knit.
The University's investment
team consists of 12 financial ana-
lysts and three administrative
staff members. Heading that team
is Lundberg, a Norwegian native
and former analyst and invest-
ment strategist for phone company
Ameritech, who started the Univer-
sity Investment Office in 1999.
Prior to the onset of the current
financial crisis last fall, Lundberg
andhisteamhadenjoyedimpressive
returns over the past decade, having
helped, alongside impressive Uni-
versity fundraising efforts, to grow
the endowment from $2.5 billion in
1999 to $7.6 billionby June30.
As a result, Institutional Investor
magazine named Lundberg one of
its "Excellence in Investment Man-
agement" award winners in 2007.
Lundberg also earns one of the top
base salaries at the University, hav-
ing made $426,000oin2006 and 2007
and $491,000 in 2008, according to
annualUniversity salary data.
Although the investment team
oversees the direction, strategy
and performance of the school's
endowment, University analysts
don't actually do the buying and-
selling. Instead, outside investment
groups, who partner with the Uni-
versity Investment Office, make the
actual investment transactions.
"Our job is to put together the
composition of the aggregate port-
folio, like deciding how much we
should have in stocks and bonds,
and then all of these different asset
classes," Lundberg explained, "and
then go out and say (to outside
investment groups), 'Populate that
(portfolio composition) with the
best of breed outthere."'
Coming up with the most profit-
able investment strategy isn't solely
theresponsibilityoftheUniversity's
investment team, either. As Lund-
berg said, "It's not just me sitting in
my corner office here looking at the
world saying, 'Hey, this is what we
should be doing."'

Integral to the investment team's
strategy is the advice of the Univer-
sity's Investment Advisory Com-
mittee. An eight-member group of
investment veterans, the commit-
tee's members include directors at
institutions like Goldman Sachs
and Bain Capital and individuals
whose specialties range from ven-
ture capital to private equity to
other kinds of investments. (For
a list of the Investment Advisory
Commitee's members, go to michi-
gandaily.com.)
Committee members meet with
the University's investment team
severaltimes a year, offering advice
on what kinds of investments they
think would benefit the endow-
ment and other strategic advice for
investing the University's money.
'The Investment Advisory Com-
mittee has been widely praised.
After participating in one of the
committee's meetings, Charlie
Munger, the vice chairman of the
venerable 'Berkshire Hathaway
Corporation and a former Univer-
sity student, said it was the best
investment committee he had ever
seen of its type, recalled committee
member Sanford Robertson.
Lundberg also praised the com-
mittee, describing it as "a very good
sounding board, (offering) very
good advice, sound advice."
Lundberg also emphasized that
other parts of the University help
with various aspects of managing
the endowment. The University
Controller's Office, for example,
continually tracks the endowment's
investments for the Investment
Office, Lundbergsaid.
"We rely very heavily on other
parts of the University to do our
job," he said.

For Tuesday, March 17, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
This is an up-and-down day. You're
very restless. You want adventure and
something different, but somehow, this
doesn't click with your job and your pri-
vate life. Frustrating!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
This is a poor day to make major deci-
sions about shared property or anything
having to do with inheritances, insurance
matters, taxes or debt. You feel pulled in
two directions.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
Discussions with partners and close
friends are bit challenging today. Bosses
or parents cotld be critical. It's not all
bad; however, it's not all good, either.
CANCEL
(June 21 toJuly 22)
Be extra patient with co-workers
today. It's easy to feel mildly annoyed
about a lot of things. Fortunately, in
between these hangnail moments, there
are a few rainbows. (Whew!)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug.. 22)
Romance is touchy today. You might
feet at adds with your main squeeze.
Teaching ortaking care of children could
be a bit exasperating. But really, none of
this is a big deal.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Conversations with family members
and people you live with, as well as
close friends, are all a bit dicey today.
It's minor stuff, but it's there. Just be
cool.
LIBRA'
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Make sure you are concentrating when
driving or doing any kind of mental
work. You might feel impatient with rou-
tine details. Don't push yourself too hard
today.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Be patient with children today. Be
extra careful with money matters, espe-
cially related to sporting events, hotels,
theme parks and vacations. Keep your
receipts.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
The Moon is in your sign today; how-
ever, it's challenged by Mercury and
Saturn. The good news is your ruler,
Jupiter, arrives tothe rescue! Ta da! This
creates moments of impatience inter-
spersed with laughter.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Remind yourself that your glass is
half-full, not half-empty. The fact that
you're reading this column shows you're
in a fortunate segment of the population
on planet Earth.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You might have financial concerns
today. (Join the club - we number mil-
lions.) Curb your expenses right now.
Stay under the radar.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Be gracious while talking to parents
and bosses today. Things can gokwell,
hut there are a few snags. Look foe
win/win scenarios, because they do
exist.
YOU BORN TODAY Movement
through dance, aviation and travel attract
you. You like activity, and you like to be
involved, especially with a noble cause.
You flit from one thing to another seek-
ing stimulation, and offering your sym-
pathy and talent where possible. You
don't like to be pinned down! You're
modern and cutting-edge. Work hard to
build or construct something important
this year.
Birthdate of Gary Sinise, actor; Nat
"King" Cole, singer; Kate Greenaway,
illustrator.

J 2009 King Features Syndicate,[ ic.

I

'4


8A - Monday, March 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Monday, March 16, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Weirdest Publisher's Clearing House winners ever
A dolorous disc

THE CLASS
From Page 5A
uncooperative and unruly, and the school proves itself
many times to be ill-equipped for dealing with them.
Eventually a story emerges around Souleymane
(newcomer Franck Keita), a loudmouth Malian stu-
dent who is threatened with expulsion after a heated
exchange of insults in the classroom spirals out of
control. What complicates matters is that Frangois is
not a complete bystander in the situation; there is a
possibility that the frank and unorthodox methods he
uses to speak to his students caused him to overstep
his boundaries.
Theviewer isultimatelyleft tojudge whatthe proper
course of action should hdve been, and the decision is
not an easy one. Souleymane's story is an embodiment
of the disconnect between students' personal lives and
NEW FOUND GLORY
From Page 5A
unbearably memorable tune is an earworm worth let-
ting in.
The album hits an early low point on the laughable
"47," with its fragmented melody and embarrassing
refrain of "I called you 46 times /And you answered on
the 47th." The awkward lyrics and disjointed rhythm
make "47" Fight's least worthy offering.
n The band hits the road with overzealous guitars
and double-kick drums on "Truck Stop Blues." The
song nearly spins out of control until a toe-tapping
chorus grooves its way into a reflection on the way
"highways and telephone lines" are the only things
connecting touring rock stars with their loved ones.
This . simplistic but lasting metaphor is certainly
nothing new from a road-worn band, but lead singer
Jordan Pundik's sincere croon deserves an empathet-
ic response.
"I'll Never Love Again" showcases guitarist Chad

their teachers' strike-hard-and-fast disciplinary phi-
losophy. And there are many unanswered questions
about what would have been tfe best way to approach
Souleymane's situation.
The original French title of "The Class" - and the title
of the novel from which it is based - is "Entre Les Murs,"
which translates to "Between the Walls." It's a fitting
description, as the vast majority of the film takes place
within the walls of Frangois's classroom. The cramped
space provides a revealing look at how students inter-
pret the world. In one instance, a black girl rightfully
chastises Frangois for only using "white" names during
his grammar lessons; in another, a discussion of soccer
teams devolves into a flurry of racial stereotyping.
Despite all the drama, by the end of the school year
many students have learned from Frangois and from
each other. "The Class" is thankfully just optimis-
tic enough to suggest that most of them have bright
futures in their sights.
Gilbert's shredding skills, which complement Pundik's
devastating lament on the prospect of rio longer being
able to partake in relationships. "Reasons," a con-
trast to its predecessor, follows by opening with an
easy acoustic line that fades into the background as a
confrontational Pundik informs, "You can cut off my
tongue / I'm speechless / and -I'm wasting away / to
nothing at your feet."
Not Without a Fight solidifies NFG's position on top
of the pop-punk throne, The guitar-driven.tunes have
an angst and energy that were hardly perceptible on
its predecessor, the more pretentious, piano-plagued
Coming Home. Reverting back to the sound heard on
Sticks andStones (NFG's most commerciallysuccessful
effort) has worked in the band's favor. The members of
NFG are not musical geniuses, but their emotive songs
continue to serve the purpose of entertaining and
sharing common feelings with a loyal fan base.
It's no secret that pop punk's glory days have long
since passed. But NFG refuses to be another casualty
of a vanishing genre. New Found Glory shows no sign
of slowing down now - at least not without a fight.

Cu
rock

"Don
don't w
announ
wailing
Kasher
the N
openini
Mama,.
len,
seventh
length
album.
certed
and tho
matic l
that ig
bring h
ated K
ous for,
of the
afdrem
on with
low ma
Thro
tence, C
band of
of its pa
debatab
down h
2000's
ject of
Organ

irsive's newest past decisions (namely those of
the sexual variety) and 2007's
is a complex Happy Hollow attacked estab-
lished religion and its role ' in
e'n'roll catharsis small-town America.
On Swollen, Kasher finds him-
By DAVID RIVA self looking at the world through
Daily Arts Writer a much broader scope. He takes
on the human condition and its
't want to live in the now / innumerable faults and short-
ant to know what I know," comings. "The ego of mankind
ices a stirs in us all," a line from "Mama,
Tim I'm Satan," sums up this senti-
on "In ment, expressing the self-cen-
ow," the tered nature that drives humans
g track of to their selfish ends.
I'm Swol- Mama, I'm "From the Hips," the album's
Cursive's Swollen lead single and strongest track,
full- Saddle Creek is vintage Cursive. Penetrating
studio lyrics ("I hate this damn Enlight-
Discon- enment / We were better off as
by a dysfunctional society animals") and a pensive buildup of
se who inhabit it, the enig- subtle guitar strums and weighty
ead singer makes a claim tom hits crescendo into a discor-
norance would, in fact, dant, frenzied middle section of
im bliss. But the opinion- the song. The cacophony then cli-
asher can't remain oblivi- maxes into a primal scream. The
too long; on the remainder song cheekily argues that intel-
album, he confronts his ligence is a curse that hinders
entioned grievance head- human nature's tendency toward
h no sympathy for his fel- carnal pleasure.
n. In "We're Going to Hell," an
ughout its 13-year exis- initially barren soundscape is
ursive has been a concept substituted for a feeble string"
sorts, loosely basing each section and high-pitched piano
ast three releases around a plinks to create a sinister and
le topic not easily pinned ominous feel. The song might
n four-minute rock songs. be expressing the consequence
Domestica tackled the sub- of creating a sacrilegious album
divorce. 2003's The Ugly like Happy Hollow. If this eter-
commented on regretting nity thing is indeed true, Cursive

could be in deep trouble.
"What Have I Done?" matches
an ambient organ tone and sober
guitar with a remorseful Kasher
looking -into his past in bitter
regret as he sings, "I spent the
best years of my life / waiting on
the best years of my life." This
emotionally charged closer is a
tearjerker for any longtime Cur-
sive fan. It marks a moment where
Kasher realizes his relentless and
unyielding opinions on the world
are insignificant and that, in the
grand scheme of things, his music
is meaningless. It's a rare moment
of vulnerability from a hardhead-
ed front man, and the song even
gives an unexpected shout-out to
Ann Arbor to boot.
Ultimately, Swollen falls short
of the lyrical potency and mas-
terful musicianship present on
Cursive's previous two albums.
As each song progresses, Kasher
sounds more frustrated and less
convincing. The album's focus
on the wretched nature of man-
kind makes for the darkest sub-
ject matter that Kasher has ever
explored.
Mama, I'm Swollen might be
tough to listen to with its depress-
ing musical and lyrical nature.
But in a world overflowing with
electronic-based music con-
taining lyrics ranging from the
impersonal to the meaningless, a
cathartic rock'n'roll record with
complex song structures and con-
temnlative ideas is a nice change.

0

New Found Glory: almost as cool as Smash Mouth.

0

5.
4

do
r
oolp
c
f: 3
s,
i
..."" ""
f YY :;
r;
r

0

6

Clinton Townshi
Dearborn
Flint
Grand Rapids
Lansing
Livonia
Saginaw
Southfield
Traverse City
Troy

0

With summer classes from Central Michigan University
Off-Campus Programs, you can still go home, sleep in late,
get a job, and have time for your friends.
It's all about quality and convenience.
Attend a Michigan center near you for a great face-to-face
CMU experience, or take an online course wherever you
want (fuzzy bunny slippers optional).


Warren
Online bachelor's and master's courses or
face-to-face classes at 12 CMU Centers

6

6

I

I I

I


The Michigan Daily ( michigandaily.com : March 16, 2009

"It's just upward going forw

Beilein has made'M a*
" Tournament contender

This bid was
for the fans, too

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
John Beilein jumped out of his large leather chair,
embraced his wife and children to his right and ran on
to his jubilant players.
The man who had just been hiding his inevitable
nerves, sitting calmly, with his legs crossed and left
hand sitting reassuringly on the back of redshirt fresh-
man Laval Lucas-Perry's chair, was ecstatic.
With hundreds of screaming fans in Crisler Arena,
Michigan men's basketball coach had just led his team
to sometbing huge - its first NCAA Tournament berth
since 1998.
When Beilein first met wiih his players in April 2007,
he brought theNCAA Sweet 16 and Elite Eight rings he
earned at West Virginia to share. As each player slid the
rings on and off, Beilein's message was clear:
"We're going to put these on as soon as we can,"
Beilein said through the Athletic Department in 2007.
"NCAA rings, we're going to go. after it as soon as we
can. There's no timetable. Just do your .best, and our
coaching staff and everyone will do the best they can,
as well."
That was 534 days ago. It has been 11 years since

Michigan's last Tournament appearance. On Thursday
at 7:10 p.m., that will change.
Yesterday, Michigan became a legitimate Tourna-
ment team. And Beilein deserves a lot of the credit.
HE'5.BEEN EVERYWHERE
Thirty. years of head coaching experience speaks
pretty loudly, and 26 winning seasons is even clearer.
Never as an assistant, Beilein has learned how to
win as a head coach at all levels - community college,
NCAA Division II, and for the last 17 years, Division-I.
In April 2007, after six seasons under former-Michi-
gan coach Tommy Amaker and no NCAA Tournament
bids, Michigan Athletic Director Bill Martin brought in
someone with a winner's resume.
.Known as a true teacher, Beilein directed his pro-
grams to greatness with a quirky offensive system
and an ability to make seemingly average players into
household names.
"John Beilein can win at whatever level you put him
at and still maintain the integrity of the institution and
the integrity of his program," said John.Maddock, an
associate athletic director at Canisius who served on
the Canisius search committee that helped hire Beilein.
See BEILEIN, Page 4B

T he numbers didn't matter anymore.
. Eight seed, 10 seed, 12 seed, 16 seed - no
one cared as hundreds of fans nervously.
stared at the Crisler Arena Jumbotron and waited for
the announcement'that was 11 years in the making.
With each successive bubble
team called --Arizona, Minne-
sota, Southern California, Mary-
land - the drama built up, doubt
growing in every mind. Fifth-
year-senior guard C.J. Lee sat in
a plush chair, hands held-in front
of his face as if he were praying.
Michigan coach John Beilein
slumped in his seat, scowling and ANDY
shaking his head for every brack- REID
et that didn't feature Michigan's
name. Fans rubbed their temples
and booed other selections.
The Midwest, the West and the East brackets
were called first. The tense murmurs and "what ifs"
started to buzz throughthe crowd.
Then it happened.
The Michigan men's basketball team was extend-
ed an invitation to participate in the NCAA Tourna-

ment.
It was great for the players, who celebrated as if it
had just made the Big Dance for the first time in more
than a decade - oh, wait - bt yesterday was about
more than the players and coaches.
It's about the eight fans who have.frequently
painted themselves to spell out "MICHIGAN,"-even
during the 10-22 debacle last.year.
It's about senior Vince Coughlin, Super Fan and
head of the Maize Rage club, who probably hasn't
missed a home tennis match in his four years inAnn
Arbor, let alone a basketball game.
It's about William Austin, a CrislerArena usher
for 26 years, who can't remember too many moments
as.special as this one. He'd be going to Kansas City if
he didn't have to fulfill his professional obligations at
the Michigan baseball games this weekend.
It's about cheerleaders and band members and
season ticket holders. Team managers, marketing.
representatives, alumni who watch every game from
their couches, and ex-team members who played
through four years of Tournament-less seasons.
It's simply about everyone who has a vested inter-
est in this team. It was a long time coming.
See REID, Page 4B


The future looks much brighter for Blue

iCE Ho CKEY'
D' is ketoMichigan's

The shift in attitude was
palpable. '
After last year's first spring
football practice, Michigan coach
Rich Rodri-
guez walked
into his post-'
practice press
conference
almost an hour
late . because
the team had to
repeat so many
drills. He was
tired, sarcastic COURTNEY
and exasper- RATKOWIAK.
ated. ' Almost - -
every question
revolved around how he was in
charge of a team that was saddled
with controversial attrition and
players that weren't suited to his.
offensive scheme
"I'm having a hard enough
time sleeping now at night," said
Rodriguez on'Mar. 15, 2008 when
asked about all the offensive start-

ers Michigan lost in the offsea-
son. "You want me to think about'
that?"
Last year was about picking up
the .pieces from the post-Lloyd L
Carr exodus and. trying to stitch
them together the best way possi-
ble under a completely new brand
of football. From the start of spring
practice, the season was a mis-
matthed mess - from the spring
game at Saline High School that
was closed to the public to then-ju-
nior left guard Justin Boren trans-
ferring to Ohio'State after tating
that "family values have eroded".
under Rodriguez.
Last year, it was easy to believe
Michigan football as we knew it
was gone.
But this year's the one to judge.
The stadium and the team are
still under construction, but it was'
obvious even after the team's first'
spring practice Saturday that this
See RATKOWIAK, Page 3sAh aD ALSALAH/Dail
See ATKOIAK Pag 3BEarly enrollee Tate Forcier practices during the first half hour of Saturday's practice.

When the first period wound
down to its final minute on Satur-
day night, the Yost Ice Arena faith-
furgave one of the most enthusiastic
"How much
time is left?"
chants of the
season, follow-
ing it up with
a 10-second
countdown to
end the frame
- all for the
big zero on the MICHAEL
shot-on-goal . EISENSTEIN.
counter.
The Wol-
verines already had a commanding
two=goal lead in the CCHA Tour-
nament quarterfinals. Western
Michigan hadn't managed to even
remotely threaten Michigan goalie
Bryan Hogan. The Broncos even

went on a power play with three
minutes remaining. It didn't mat-
ter.
Shots on goal for 'the period:
Michigan 21, Western Michigan 0.
It was as dominant a defensive per-
formance as the Wolverines have
had all year.
"I've never seen a goose egg after
one period," senior forward Miller
said.
And Michigan coach Red Beren-
son didn't remember the last time
the Wolverines'-defense has accom-
plished such a feat.
The defense - the one -unit of
a hockey team you usually never
notice unless it's bad - was the cen-
ter of attention:
And deservedlyso. The blueliners
have played very well in the team's
second-half run from seventh place
See EISENSTEIN, Page 4B

HARRIS ON THE RUN OFILI: NCAA CHAMP
U Senior Adam Harris placed fourth in the -1U Senior Tiffany Ofili took home her second
etiS e100-meter dash at this weekend's indoor ' straight national championship in the 60-me
national championships. Page 2B. terhurdle race. Page 3B.

.1


2B -March06,2009

Si)or--tsM(.

:The Michigan Daily.- rnichigandailycom

2B - March16, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigaruJaily.cnir

Bidding Yost
Arena adieu

With bats dormant,'M' Nine
drops three straight to Arizona
'Freebies,' shaky

orgive me for being
sentimental, but it was
sad to leave Yost Ice
Arena after Michigan beat-West-
ern Michigan 6-1 on Saturday
night.
I've written about what a spe-
cial place Yost is before. It has a.
special blend of history, hockey
and hi rityv

memories.I will carry forever
have come from this season,
when I got to enjoy the best
sports arena on campus as a fan
rather than a reporter.'
Sitting in the student section,
doing the chants, singing "The
Victors" - those are things I
will cherish because I finally
got a chance to be part of the

that I haven't action instead of just observ-
found any- ing it.
where else on If you've had season tickets to
this campus. hockey for a few years, it might
Yost has be easy to miss how special the
played a key experience is. This weekend
role in my .x I talked to two students from
college expe- NATE other Big Ten schools who were
rience. Over SANDALS at Yost for the first time. They
the past three reminded me why it's such a spe-
years, I'm cial place.
pretty sure At the end of Saturday night's
I've spent more time in the old game one turned to me and said,
barn than anyone who isn't "This is amazing. It's 6-1 and no'
part of the Michigan hockey one has left." .
program or a member of the In fact, the student section
Yost staff. only got louder when the game
After two years of covering ended and the team skated over
the hockey team to the student,
for this paper on section and
a daily basis and band. When the
getting season Y s is about team salutes
tickets this year, p ri at g its fans at the
I've got a slew of p c end of the sea-
memories from * ,4 son, you know .
Yost. instead O there's some-
I remember observin . thing special
the captain's obabout that fan
practices Kevin . base.
Porter and Chad The student
Kolarik ran section has taken
before-last season. Expectations a lot of heat this year. Certainly,.
hadn't been lower in a long time, the "C-Ya" chant angers a lot of
but you could see from the very people. And the "F.Y.S." chant
beginning that team was-intent during the Michigan State game
on proving expectations wrong. in January may have seemed like
I remember when Red Beren- a blemish on the University's
son gave me permission to reputation.
watch practice from the bench But the Yost experience isn't
for just one practice. First, he all about cursing and calling,
made sure I knew that I had visiting fans derogatory names.
better pay attention, and that if Watching a game at Yost is about
I ended up getting hurt some- participating instead of observ-
how that I couldn't blame the ing.
hockey team. I nodded in agree- I've said it before and I will
ment. (Anyone who has ever say it again: Yost puts every
met Berenson knows that when other venue at this school'to
he tells you-something, there's shame, whether you're a hockey
no point arguing.) fan or-not.
I remember the team com- If you're a senior and you
ing back to Yost for a final team never made it to Yost, I'm sorry .
photo last year, the week after no one dragged you there before
Notre Dame knocked the Wol- it was too late.
verines out of the Frozen Four. And if you have more time on
That was wheo Kolarik told me this campus, don't let it run out -
he had just signed his profes- without atrip to Yost;.I bet you'
sional contract and Porter was can't go just once.
about to. That's when I knew my
time covering.the hockey team - Sandals got hit with a puck
was actually done. . . once and he still loves Yost. He can
But many of the best Yost be reached at nsandals@umich.edu.

pitching key to.
Michigan's collapse
in desert series
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Last weekend, the Michigan
baseball team was played the New
York Mets,'a professional team. This
weekend against 'Arizona, it just
seemed that way.
The Wolverines (10-5), who
hadn't been shut out since May 16 vs.
Northwestern, were held scoreless
twice over the weekend en roite
to being swept in a three-game
weekend series at Arizona (11-7).
Michigan kept Friday and ,Satur-
day's games close, when Michigan
losing 2-0 and 9-7, romped Arizona
romped in-a14-0 win on Sunday.
Michigan coach Rich Maloney
said he expected th6 offense to
struggle coming into the season and
the pitchiig and defense to carry
the Wolverines. But that. has not
been the case, as the offense. has
been a great surprise.
The 25th-ranked Wplverines are
batting .316 as. a team so far this
season - a point below last season's
final average. Michigan's defense
had struggled before this weekend
with 17 errors on the season, but
didn't have a single one against
Arizona. But the usually effective
pitching staff allowed 43 baserun-
ners.
Michigan didn't have many pleas-
ant surprises over the weekend.
"(I'm) very, very disappointed,"
Maloney said. "We don'tlike losing.
I don't care who we're playing. Lose
three games and ... quite frankly,
they embarrassed us, they played.so
well. We don't like. taking a whup-
pin' like that. So we'll work real hard-
so that doesn't happen again."
The series was a chance for
Michigan to seek revenge. A 4-3
.defeat to the Wildcats was one of
the two losses that eliminated the
Wolverines from -last year's NCAA
Regional. .
The team has changed consid-
erably since then. In .that.game,
then-freshman centerfielder Ryan
LaMarre was batting in the ninth
position. This season, he is batting
third, and his 10-game hittingstreak
was snapped on Sunday.
$enior Chris Fetter started the
opening game of the series and
pitched into the eighth inning, giv-
ing up just two runs, one of which
came on a passed ball in the fifth

0

i

a

* LE PHTO
Sophomore Ryan LaMarre's 10-game hitting streak ended yesterday as the Wolverines were swept in Arizona.

m

inning.. Arizona catcher Dwight
Childs tripled to right field with one
out, putting the pressure on Fetter
to make sure the Wildcats didn't
bring home the run.
OnFriday, Michigan got on base
in everyinning exceptfor the eighth,
and stranded 11 men. It just couldn't
manufacture runs, a weakness that
plagued the team all weekend.
In Saturday's game, Michigan's
offense -scrambled to an early five-
run lead. But in the bottom of the
third, Arizona exploded for six runs,
* for a lead it wouldn't relinquish.
"(In the third inning), we gave
too many of what we call freebies,"
Maloney said. "Walks, wild pitches,
things like that and it really, really
hurt us.. And it gave. Arizona the
opportibity to get the big inning.
And if you get the big inning, you
usually win the game.... And it cost

us." was just one of those - days where
Maloney said Michigan's .ability they got on us and we just couldn't
to limit the "freebies" was one of getanything going. We just played
the reasons it entered ,the Arizona " bad."
series with a 10-2 record. Maloney The series ended the team's long,
said Arizona had.fewer ppportuni- season-opening road fTrip. - Michi-
ties to score than Michigan, but the gan now returns to Ann Arbor -and
Wildcats cashed in on their chances the friendly confines of the Wilpon
and the Wolverines didn't. Baseball Complex, where the 'Wol-
Maloney attributed some of the verines were 22-4 last season. Its
issues to the absence of junior catch- home opener is Friday against Indi
er Chris Berset, who will be out for ana University-Purdue' University
what Maloney said will be "quite a Fort Wayne (IPFW).
while;' Berset has already missed And Michigan is ready to forget
six games due.to injury. its misfortunes in the desert.
The mishaps on offense and "(Arizona) won all three;"'Malo-
defense culminated in the 14-0 ney said. "And we're not used to that
blowout on' Sunday, in which Ari- in our program. And we'll go back
zona. had 20 hits. By' contrast, and we'll work extremely hard. And
Michigan had 28 in.all three games I'll do a.better job, our team will do.
combined. - a better jobAnd we'll do everything'
"(Sunday's game> .was just a we can to figure it out because we
snowball effect," Maloney said. "It don't like losing."

Three Wolverines shine at NCAA Indoor Championships

By ROGER SAUERHAFT So his fourth-place finish in the
Daily Sports Writer .60-meter dash Saturday in College
Station,. Texas - which made him
Even before this weekend's the first Wolverine runner to ever
NCAA Indoor Championships, achieve All-America status twice
men's track and field senior Adam as an individual - was a bonus.
Harris said.he had already accom-. Michigan coach Fred LaPlante
plished all of his indoor career' stressed the significance of the
goals. fourth-place finish, saying that

Harris's competition was thje best.
he saw all season.
"When you get here, you realize
how many good people there are,'
LaPlante said through the Michi-
gan Athletic Department. "So for
him to make the final and then get
fourth was a good performance.
... He had' an okay start but he ran
really well. When he got to top-
end speed, he closed it up. It was
a-good race:"
The Wolverines concluded

their indoor season with seven ished fourth. He was fresh off his
teamo points at the NCAA Cham- besttime of this season, set Feb..
pionship, good for 32nd place. Five 21. at the Silverston Invitational,
points came courtesy of. Harris's when he ran a 6.60.
6.62 second time in the 60-meter . Fellow senior Justin Switzer
dash. - als6 gained two points and .All-
It was a step up from Michigan's America status after he finished
44th-place showing last season.. seventh in the mile runwith a time
Harris was responsible for -all five of 4:02.99: It was the second-All-.
of the team's points in that meet. America honor of his career. Two
Harris's 'time was the exacI years ago, he was on the distance
same- as last year's time in the medley relay team that finished
60-meter dash, where he also fin- seventh at nationals.

"He led the race for the first
three laps," LaPlante said. "He
was in a pack of guys at the end.
He finished seventh, but there was
only about a second between -sec-
ond and seventh so he was right up
there..It was his first NCAA final
and he did great."
New Mexico senior Lee Eman-
uel finiished first in the mile with a
time of 4:00.36, less than two see:
onds ahead of Switzer.
Redshirt junior thrower Sean-
Pruitt came into the meet as the
eighth seed in the weight throw,:
but had a disappointing showing
at nationals. He threw the weight
64.5-feet, nearly five feet shorter
than his 69.4-foot throw that won
his event on Jan. 31 at the Indiana
Relays. ..
Michigan now has:two weeks
off before they begin their outdoor
season March 27th at. the Rice
Bayou Classic, .held in ' Houston,
Texas.

6

iF


.1'he M chigan Daily - michigandail'y.com

March 16, 2009 - 3B

The Mich(gan Daily - michigandailycom.March 16, 2009 - 3B

Ofili wins second straight
national championship
-nthe 60-meter hurdles
ByAMY SCARANO
DailySports Writer
Four one-hundredths of a sec-
ond was the. difference between
an NCAA Championship title and
*second place. 'i/Ji
And Michigan senior Tiffany -
Ofili was on the better end of that
fraction of a second.
With a season-best time of eight
seconds flat, she captured her sec-
ond 'straight NCAA Champion-
ship' in the 60-meter hurdles at
the NCAA Indoor Championships
on Saturday. Ofili's fourth NCAA
crown of her career - two of which
were. 100-meter outdoor wins
helped the Wolverines finish 11th
at the .NCAA Indoor Champion-
ships in College Station, Texas.
Seniors Bettie Wade and Geena
Gall both earned All-American
honors. Wade came in fifth in the
pentathlon with a season best
4,252 points,'earning four points
for Michigan, and 'Gall came in
sixth in the. 800-meter race, con-.
tributing three points.
- But Ofili was far and away
-Michigan's bright spot.
"Things that happened in prior cHRIS DZoMBAK/Daily
competitions don't mean any- Senior Tiffany Ofii posted a season-best time of 8 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles.
thing when you step on ihe line," "Such a'short race; over within - event, the cutoff point for collect-
Ofili said. "I don't pay attention to eight seconds, everything must be ing points towards a team total.
what happened ilithe past because perfect," Henry said "Everything .'SOur goal was to try to improve
every time you race you have the must be right. The slight mistake over our best previous perfor-.
chance to win or lose." could cost you the championship. mdnces," Henry said. "With the
After an undefeated indoor.sea-.. It was impressive that she could competition and as a team, we
son in which Ofili ran five 60-me- pull.it off knowing that everyone wanted to be top four or top six.
ter hurdle races, she was ranked had their eyes on her." It turns out the competition was
No. 1 in the nation heading into Aside from Ofili, no Wolver- stellar and we didn't have a great
Saturday's race. Being the *favorite ine scored more than. four points day. We fell a little bit short, but I
guaranteetl her nothing going into for the team. Only Wade .and Gall was happy with the kids' efforts
the race, coach James Henrysaid. scored in the top eight in their and how they performed."

Wolverines fall to Illinois by
one point onSenior Night

Pommel horse,
high bar prove
troublesome in loss
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
The niood was festjve before
Saturday's Senior Night meet at
Cliff Keen Arena.
Michigan gymnasts, grinned
at their friends in the stands dur-
ing warmups and. parents hugged'
gleefully. As the night began, nine
seniors walked onto the floor with.
their parents and accepted plaques
froni tearful Michigan coach-Kurt
Golder.
After his usual.rendition of.the
national anthem, sophomore Ben
Baldus-Strauss led thecrowd in
'.,singing ".Happy Birthday" too leg-
endary coach Newt Loken,. who
turned 90 on Feb. 27. Former co-
captain Andrew Elkind, whose
own Senior Night in 2007 featured
a Michigan victory over. Illinois,
joined his old teammates pn the
hench for the meet.
Butthe atmosphere deflated just
a few hours later as No. 5 Michigan
fell.to No. 4 Illinois 35490-353.90.
Though the Wolverines endured
a tough final rotation on high bar,'
pommel horse was crucial in the
loss. Even for hit routines - only
one.Wolverine actually fell off the
apparatus - Michigan received
uncharacteristically low scores.
The Wolverines had taken a lead'
after opening on floor, but losing
in pommel horse by almost two
points, they couldnever quite catch
up to the Fighting Illini.
"We probably should reassess
the (horse) lineup, because some of

us just can't get the scores weneed tions, Michigan sat less' than a
to be getting," said Baldus-Strauss, point. behind Illinois. On parallel
who won the floor title and.hit all bars, senior John 'Sawicki, who
his sets. "We can't have hit 'rou- 'has had few chances to compete,
tines like that;and just go so low. and fifth-year senior Paul Wood-
We clearly lost the meet on horse ward got -Michigan. started with
alone, in my opinion." emotional hits: Woodward, who
Despite trailing by 1.4 points" also had a clean pommel horse set,
after two events, Michigan began said he felt it was the first complete
putting together a comeback on meet he's put together all year.
the still rings and vault, where it But with Rosso and all-around
earned seasoti-high team scores. champion Cameron as the onlytwo
After a' missed opening set, - hits in the next four sets, Michigan
senior-Joe Citrambone got Michi- was shaky going into high bar..
gan back on track on the rings, The Wolverines tried to regroup
before the final event, bellowing,
"Our housel"- But' the Illini were
T halready swarming: A chain in front
They took of the Illinois bench area was no
match for the Illini gymnasts, who
slipped past it to gather near the
Senior Night," events and cheer their teammates
Goldberg said.' Baldus-Strauss and junior Mel
*'Santander started 'the Wolverines
with two hits, but it wasn'teenough;
Santander eventually won the
event but Illinois steamrolled to
smoothly executing his revamped the finish, and Michigan stumbled,
routine to notch a season-high suffering. major mistakes on its
score of 14.75. His teammates built final four.routines.
on the- hit. Senior co-captain Phil "We lost the meet," said senior
Goldberg -and sophomore Chris Scott Bregman, who earned.a14.80
Cameron posted. matching 15.35 in his final floor set at Keen. "They.
scores, the highest scores any Wol- didn't take it from us."
verine has achieved this seasor-on It certainly wasn't the Senior.
rings. Night the Wolverines hadudreamed
And the momentum carried into of. But the seniors will have one
vault. On the event that used to more chance to go out on a high
cost Michigan two to three points note at home. Michigan will host
in start value alone, no Wolverine 'the Big Ten Championships the
scored lower than a 15.30. In fact, first weekend in April.
four Michigan gymnasts set sea- .'They took away. our- Senior
son highs,.with'senior Ralph Rosso 'Night," Goldberg said. "If your
and.junior co-captain David Chan emotions aren't coming into play
landing high-value'. handspring. after that, I don't know, you might
double front vaults. . . not be a living being.::. This is it.
Going into tle final two rota- This is our season."

Michigan grabs spot in CCHA semis after sweep

By CHRIS MESZAROS had a 21-0 shot advantage.- .
DailySports Writer . . And it was the 21st shot that
really mattered.
Maybe the Western Michigan With just three seconds left in
hockey team was simply hoping to the first period, freshman forward
sneak out of the first period early David Wohlberg controlled aloose
in both of - . . . _ puck, on the left side of Western
its games WESTERN MICH. 2 Michigan goaltender Riley'- Gill.
against MICHIGAN : 5 Wohlberg then deflected the puck
Michigan off Gill's right skate and into the
this week- WESTERN MICH. net to give Michigan the three-
end. MICHIGAN.. 6 goal lead.
In both . - . In the second -period, after the
games of the CCHA Quarterfinal Broncos scored to cut the lead to
series, the, Broncos' checked out .two, another lucky bounce broke
just a few'seconds too soon. Western Michigan's back.
In No. 3 Michigan's 5-2 win With 25 seconds -to play in
Friday night and 6-1 victory Sat- 'the second,, sophomore. Aaron
urday against Western Michigan, Palushaj skated-around the Bronco
two last-second goals by the Wol- goal and tried to feed the puck to
verines to close the first period sophomore'Louie Caporusso, who
crushed the Broncos' CCHA Tour- was stationed next to the crease.
nament upset bid. With the series Palushaj's pass deflected off the,
win, Michigan advanced to the leg of a Western Michigan defend-
CCHA semifinals next-weekend at er and slid into the net.
Joe Louis Arena. After referees.reviewedthe play
Saturday's first period was one to see if the puck went off Capo-
of the .Wolverines' 'most domi- russo's foot, the officials upheld
nating of the season. Not. only the goal.
did Michigan (20-8-0-0 CCHA, "We' were good, but we were
28-10-0 overall) outscore Western lucky,"' Michigan coach Red Beren-
Mnichigan 3-0 in the. first frame, son said. "We got the bounces. We,
they also shutout the Broncos scored those last-minute goals -
(9-13-6-2,14-20-7) in shots on goal. just about last-second goals - three
By the end of the period, Michigan of them this weekend. And those

are backbreakers. The third goal
and the fourth goal tonight are
killers in the locker room, when
you've just been scored on."
Remarkably, things were eerily
simila'-the night before.
Sophomore Carl. Hagelin
notched a shorthanded breakaway
goal off a pass from sophomore
Matt Rust that gave Michigan
a 3-0 lead with just 1.5 seconds
remaining in the first period.
"Rusty did all the work," Hage-
lin said. "It was an easy goal for
me. He beat his guy on our blueline
and had a two-on-one. He made
an awesome pass over to me and I
missed the first shot but made the
sure I got the rebound in."
Besides scoring .timely goals,
the second line of Rust, Hagelin
and Palushaj simply dominated
the Broncos. All three scored two
goals each in the series; and the
trio combined for 14.points on the.
weekend.
Rust and Hagelin also anchored
Michigan's penalty kill, particu-
larly on Friday. On two. separate
penalty kills in the first and second
.period, Hagelin and 'Rust teamed
up not only to score the short-
handed goal, but forechecked deep
in the Bronco zone to kill the clock
and 'penalty. Their efforts earned

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Sophomore Carl Hagelin heard theYost crow; chant his name for the-first time in his career as Michigan swept the-Broncos.
the approval of the Yost crowd, and for the crowd." . the CCHA in points - for just one
which started chanting 'Hagelin's It will take several similar goal on the weekend bodes well for
name. efforts from the' all-sophomore upcoming games.
"I have iever heard them cheer line if . the Wolverines want to - "They are a line that likes to be
my name," Hagelin said. "But I win the CCHA Tournament this challenged,".Beie nson said. "They
think when Rust and I are out weekend. But the way Michigan shut down Western's best line and
there on the penalty kill, we try to shut down Western Michigan for- then they' outscored them. And
get some energy-going for the team ward Patrick G4livan - who leads that is a tribute to them."


RATKOWIAK
From page 1B.
season willbe'different.
Just like last year, the Wol-
ve-rines' starting quarterback
situation is uncertain. But this
time, it isn't as scary. Redshirt
junior Nick Sheridan took the
first snaps 'of.the spring, but
listening to Rodriguez's glow-
ing praise of early-enrollee Tate
Forcier's workouts and seeing the
freshman's smooth performance
during the first part.of spring
'practice, Forcier will probably
be even with Sheridan-iin tie
starting.race by-the end of spring
practice..

Forcier has been hyped as the
quarterback Rodriguez was look-
ing for all last season, and the
coach didn't bother to hide his
excitement over Forcier and the
team's six other early enrollees.
"The nice thing'about it is
I think they've really blended
into our program," Rodriguez
said.,"They've not tried to be out
front and brag about themselves.
They know they have to earn the
respect, and I think they've tried
to do it. I'm tickled to death the
way they worked so far."
But'a quarterback can't be good
without a solid offensive line,
which was one of the Wolverines'
-biggest issues last year.
Rodriguez said Saturday he

hopes to "at least to be able to pick
up where we left off froni" offen
sively.
It already looks like they'll be
able to do that.
The.offensive line has one .
more year of experienc. and last
year's crop of redshirts are now.
ready for action..Rodriguez said
Saturday he might have 10 poten-
tial offensive linemen - a drastic
change from last year, when the
line was constantly in flux with
injuries and inexperienced play-

And the sunny, 40-degree
weather meant the Wolverines
held their first practice outdoors
for the first time in recent his-
tory. Last year, the team didn't
work outside until the last few..
spring practices. Practicing in the
low-ceilinged Oosterbaan Field-
house made itdifficult to work on
special teams, and kick and punt.
returns were one of Michigan's
most embarrassing weaknesses
last season,

This spring, Rodriguez said
he thinks the Wolverines can
hold outdoor practices for the
first three or four sessions--
.,and that up to half of practices
may be spent working on special
teams. In just the first half'hour
of Saturday's practice, the Wol-
verines worked on kick returns,
punt returns and blocking
punts.
Last yearstarting from that
first spring practice, it often felt
like Rodriguez and some of the

other coaches were just putting on
a happy face during press confer-:
ences.
That quickly vanished during
Michigan's five-game midseason
losing streak.
The difference this year is
that it doesn't already feel likea
facade. $ure, not everything will
he rosy this season..But it.definite-
ly won't be as painful, either.
- Ratkowiak can be reached
'at cratkowi@urnich.edu.

r H 25 C 3 N _F4 nE CA
512F .WiI1za x(734) 663-3379
LIMITED TIME OFFER
For Our Frie'nds at The U
CUSTOMER'APPRECIATION
Lunch Euffet
M-F 11-2pm
$2 OFF our Lunch Buffet
'rith Bverage Included
Just Present Your.U of M .D.
Offer Valid: 03/16/09 - 04/17/09

opby foT a tour onapply thesame'day.andwe II
WAIVE YOUR $150 SERVICE FEE!
Sign a;lease for a.2 or 3 bedroom apartment within 24 hours of applying
AND RECEIVE $300 GIFT CARD

a


4B - March 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


BEILEIN
From page1B-
.'"He finds a way. .. Hesgot a track
record that if you huy into what he's
r selling, you're goingrto win."
Beilein has sold his system well
with 10.postseason appearances.
But he also shows loyalty to his
players-
In' 2006, Beilein's West Virginia
squad dropped its finalregular-sea-
son contest by three points to Cin-
cinnati on the road.
More than 400 miles away, in
Buffalo, N.Y., two of Beilein's former
players, Michael Meeks and Daryl
Barley, were being inducted into
the Canisius Sports Hall of Fame.
Immediately after the Mountain-
eers' game ended, Beilein boarded
a plane bound for Buffalo. He made.
Meeks and Barley's afternoon cer-
emony .and then took the two out'
for-dinher. A few chicken wings and
another plane ride later, he wasback
to Morgantown.
- "That's why he's a special guy,"
Maddock said.."That's why he's so
successful and why players 'play
hard for him and people work for
him. He's extremely loyal, extreme-
ly passionate about what he does
andhe cares aboutpeople."
In his six seasons, Amaker was
known as a class act. His integrity
- andstraight-lacedrecruitingbrought
Michigan out of a dark sanction peri-
od. He led theWolverines to-two NIT
Finals and won the title in 2004.
" But his teams could never quite.
make it to the Big Dance.
"It was good withboth guys,"said
assistant coach Mike Jackson, who"
also worked under Amaker. 'But it's
been really good to just learn from
someone who's won so many games,
done so many things and -been-in'
this-situation alot of times."'
Beilein is now one of just seven
coaches to lead four different teams.
to the NCAA Tournament.
He has done it with a variety
of players, some -he recruited and
some he didn't. But before he even
conducted his first practice in Ann
Arbor, he needed to get Michigan's
best onboard.
WINNING THEM OVER
Like he had'done at his previous.
stops, ~ Beilein made a phone call.
shortly after earning the head job.
DeShawn Sims had just finished
his freshman season. Sims came
in as a highly touted big man with
potential for a good outside shot,but
Amaker limited his playingtire..
Beilein was new coach and want-

improve. Harris has become a com- players or just ones to fit his system?
plete player and is considered alead- And could he lead Michigan to its
er on his team. first NCAAberth since 1998?
"He came in and went straight to "Naw, . I didn't," Jackson said
business and didn't let up one bit on when asked if he thought Michigan
me or my teammates," Harris said of would make the -Tournament this
Beilein. "It was a lot hime showing me season.. "I think wse'goals from.
the ropes. But I was abe to cake it-the very heginning sbout where we
don't argue with him, don't fightwith wanted to be. And we've taken one .
him, and just wantto getbetter." of thdse steps today."
Harris and Sims wanted it, and Michigan is starting to follow.
Beilein has shown them the way. the same path as Beilein's previous
teams: struggling to learn his system
THE FUTURE in the frst year,bouncingback in the
Beilein said he's going to enjoy
a cold beer and savor his team's
NCAA Tournament bid, but just EISENSTEIN.
for one night. . From page l B.'
It's not enough to have MVichi-
gan simply make the Tourna- in theCCHA to No. 3 in the country.'
ment. He expects moce.. Michigan's defense has let up more
"We had to get to this point to than two even-strength goals just
have people believe," Beilein said. three times in the past 20 games; In
"You know aboutrecruiting, what that stretch, it hasn't allowed more
SWILL MOELLER/Daily this does to people saying, 'Are than three goals.
Michigan coach John -Beilein addresses the crowd at Crisler Arena yesterday. . .j. . - - p.
they going to get it done there? Is". The injuries to senior captain.
ed the most from Sims. Amaker's highly touted recruiting that style goingto work, are those Mark Mitera, junior Steve Kampfer
Beilein called and Sims was all class. And Beilein had to make.a few type of recruits going to work, is and freshman Brandon Burlon were
ears. more phone calls. this going to work?' a bigblow to the Wolverine defense
"Ihad a delightful 10-minute con- 'One was to Manny Harris. "Okay, it worked so far .., now in the beginning of the year, but it
versation with. him," Beilein said. Harris, Michigan's 2007 Mr. Bas- we've got to continue. with the also provided an opportunity to
"And what I was most impressed of ketball, was set on becoming a Wol= program so we can not just be build incredible depth that is now
...I said, listen, we gotta address this verine. happy to be in, but to be in and paying dividends.
issue. Are you in-with this thing as When Amaker was . fired, the advaince, which is obviously what "We .have a pretty solid 'D' core
you get a new coach? . then-high school senior told report- we're trying to do on Thursday." right how," Mitera said. "Even guys
'"And there was never any doubt ers his plans were still intact. But Unlike Beilein'sprevious stops, who -aren't playing- can contribute
in-his mind or my mind, showed no then his classmate Alex Legion Michigan has the name rcecogni at any time. I think it makes prac-'
wavering at all. Coach, I cane to decommitted and Hfarris was faced tion to attract the.country's top tice that much better. (There is)
Michigan to help turn the program with a difficult decision. - talent. But Beilein has made :a competition at practice where you
around.' And it was great chemistry "I told (Harris) that the reason name for himself by fitting play- don't really know who's going to be
from the beginning." why he should stay is if he turns that ers into his system and maximiz- that fifth and sixth defenseman. We
In the Wolverines' marquee wins program around, which he's doing ing their ability. Will he need top have eight guys that can roll."
this season - UCLA, Duke and Pur- now, and come back to the Dance, talent to grow the program? Simply put, the unit is stacked.
due - it was Sims who dominated put up good numbers over four years, Beilein brought in freshmen Three of the six' that diress on a
the stat sheets. he has a good chance to go down as guards Stu Douglass and Zack
- Since his freshman season,.Sims one of the greats," KenFlowers, Har- Novak this season. Two of the
has blossomed as an agile post pres- ris's high school coach, said. team's best sharp shooters, the
ence and crashed the boards as the . In high school, Harris would duo has taken away playing time REID
Big Ten's fourth-leading rebounder. slash to the basket and draw fouls from Amaker's original recruits From page 1B
He can also hit outside shots with with ease - not exactly a charac- like sophomore point guard Kel-
some of the Wolverines' best sharp teristic of Beilein's - previous sharp vin Grady, redshirt sophomore * Because of that, the Wolverines'
shooters. shooters like Kevin Pittsnogle and forward Anthony Wright and Selection Sunday watch party
And as Sims jumped. from his Joe Alexander. senior forward Jevohn Shepherd. * wouldn't have made sense without
chair as he heard Michigan's name "Beilein is more of jump shoot- Butthe Wolverines have stayed the fans there to go crazy with the
called yesterday as. the South ing, and it really wasn't-much of his *.together. teamAnd if you didn't watch the
Region's No: 10 seed, he had one game," Flowers said of Harris. "But "Whatllove aboutthisprogram program, Michigan had the rowdi'
person to thank. working out this summer with me is that is a unified team," Mar- estatmosphere of any tournament
"Coach Beilein deserves 90 per- and -all year last year with Coach tin said. "There are not factions team. .
cent of the credit," Simssaid. "He's Beilein, he really understands the among that team, it's all about the Whether his team got in, Beilein
done a great job of getting us to system right now and it's working." team. There's not, 'I'm not going knew everyone had to be invited.
believe. Believing has been lost -in Now, Harris still mesmerizes to pass it to that guy because I "I madethat decision yesterday,"
Ann Arbor since probably the last with his drives but can also drain a don't like him,' It is not that at all. Beilein said. "I had first said, just
time we went to the Tournament ... game-changing 3-pointer. It's a very cohesive team. Again, -. looking at the thing, I didn't want to
Once you teach people tobelieve, it's Within Beilein's system, Harris that's a reflection of the leadership make the decision. The next morn-
very easy from there." . has 93 more rebounds and 56 more through the coachingstaff" ing I woke up and saw the band
It's easy to believe now. Amaker assists than atthis point in his fresh- After a 10-22 season in his' members in the lobby studying,
.recruited players 'many thought man season. inaugural year inAnn Arbor,Bei-.. and then I saw a couple cheerlead-
would return theprogram to great- Flowers said Harris has always lein faced many doubters. ers going out in the morning, so
ness during his tenure. When Bei- been very headstrong and 'com- Could his system survive the I said to myself that all of these
lein took the helm, he- inherited petitive, putting in extra effort to Big Ten? Would he recruit better people have sacrificed so much that

second andbuild a winning tradi-
tion.
"We were hoping probably more
of an NIT thing would be a step,"
Beilein said. "When you're.10-22,
you're not expecting, (the NCAA
Tournament):"
"I said itwould he a roller coaster.
... I'm nottrying to tell anybody I'm
wiser than anybody else,but experi-
ence tells you you're going to be up
and down."
And to be up in the middle of
March is pretty good.
nightly basis were picked in the
first two rounds of the NHL Draft.
Among. the other three, Kampfer
was "a fourth-round pick, sopho-
more Chad Langlais is . a finalist
for the. CCHA's award for offen-
sive defenseman of the year and
Berenson called sophomore.Tristin
Llewellyn one'of Michigan's most
improveddefenders this season:
This team's offense - and a
potential Frozen Four run - will be
on the backs of those blueliners.
"Givingup one goal againtonight
is important," Mitera said Satur-
day. "We can't guarantee we're
goingto score six goals or five goals
next weekend It's going to be a lot
tougher."
* As the well-worn cliche goes, it's
defense that wins championships.
And there's no question-everyone
should be focused on Michigan's,
especiallythe vway it's playing com-
ing down the stretch.
isenstein can be reached
at msetseneumich.edu
- we have to make this an inclusive
thing.
"If we are in, we can enjoy it all
together, and if we are out, it makes
us stronger to come back and be
ready todo it next year.
The demand for tickets on
Thursday is so high that only sea-
son ficket holders can request them
- and they can't ask for more than
one.
Apparently, that sacrifice Beilein
spoke of has reached the stands..
Why go to lass, worry about
impending.exams, friends, family,
rent or anything elsexwhen yodr
team's in the Tournament?
After all, the fans, coaches, play-
ers, cheerleaders, ushers, band
members, managers - they're all in
this together.
- eid needs a ticket. E-mail
him at andyreid@umich.edu.

a

6
6

.a

.4


6

Series of free student workshops
* Wednesday, March 18, Investing for Young Investors
* Wednesday, March 25, Landing a Job in a Difficult Economy
" Wednesday, April 1, Your fork Is Not a Shovel: A Lesson in
Business Etiquette
All sessions are from 6-8 p.m., are free and include
dinner. Register now! Space is limited so make sure
you register early.
www.umalumni.com/students

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE.for
SUNG.LASSES.
and... more Classes?
In response to increased student demand; the
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE,.AND THE ARTS
has expanded its 2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at
i.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses..
S.

6
6

I

Thanks to our.sponsors:
Liberty C.RE
Mutual. UM N

ALUMN4I AsSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

6



