TOO. TAME MIDSEASON REPORT
'Where theWild Things Are' A look at the plays, players and statistics that have
promises magic but comes up short. made the Wolverines 4-2 in the season's first half.
SEE ARTS, PAGE SA SEE FOOTBALL SATURDAY, INSIDE
~Iieffiljxan &xiIlj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, October 16, 2009

michigandaily.com

'U' endowment falls 21 percent

Big drop on par with that
of other endowments
across the country
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The University's endowment fell 21 per-
cent last year, a significant drop but one
on par with endowments of other schools
around the country.
The endowment's value now stands at
approximately $1.6 billion, University offi-
cials reported yesterday.
Reporting at the University's Board of
Regents monthly meeting, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer Tim-
othy Slottow presented the regents with
the annual report on investments. The
endowment, which was valued at $7.6 bil-
lion in June 2008 fell to $6 billion in June
2009, Slottow said.
The report presented to the regents yes-
terday showed that only one area of the
University's investments saw a positive
return last year - a 4.6-percent increase in
fixed income.

All other categories - equities, absolute
return, venture capital, private equity, real
estate and energy - posted double-digit
percentage losses. Among the largestwas a
38.5-percent drop in real estate assets and
a 30.5-percent decline in energy invest-
ments.
In a committee meeting before the
regents meeting, Slottow and Chief Invest-
ment Officer Erik Lundberg reported the
news to the regents and discussed how
the University would be affected by the
decline.
Reading a statement during the regents
meetingyesterday, RegentKatherine White
(D-Ann Arbor) said although the drop is
significant, the University is in a much bet-
ter spot than many other schools.
Many other institutions have lost larger
sharesoftheirendowments, includingHar-
vard University, which lost 27 percent of its
endowment, and Yale University, which
lost 30 percent over the lastyear.
However, some institutions lost less than
the University of Michigan, including the
University of Virginia, which saw a 21-per-
cent drop in its endowment.
"Even though the banking crisis in the
short term created a challenging year ...

over the past 10 years, the University's
endowment has earned an annualized
return of 9 percent," White said.
White said the overall increase is evi-
dence that the University's long-term
approach to investing is paying off.
"Although these numbers showa signifi-
cant decline in one year, the endowment
is invested for the long term," White said.
"The overall performance of the portfolio
is consistent with our diversified strategy
to provide an ample amount of return to
support operations at the University, while
protecting the corpus and fostering the
endowment's growth."
At the end of her statement, White rec-
ognized Lundberg and thanked him for his
oversight of the University's investments.
In a letter presented to the regents, Slot-
tow and Lundberg wrote that the unex-
pected spikes and drops in the market are
normal.
"While a negative 23-percent return for
the endowment was always possible, it was
about as unlikely to occur as the positive
44-percent return generated in the first
year of the Investment Office's operation,"
the two wrote. "These widely different
See ENDOWMENT, Page 7A

A HISTORIC DECLINE
For only the second time in the past two decades, the University's
endowment lost value over the previous fiscal year.

5.7

4.9

4.2
3 3.6 4

7.6
6.0
'07 '08 '09

2.3

2.0

16

13

0
0.4 0.5 06 08

'90 '91 '92 '93 '94 '95 '96 '97 '98 '99 '00

'01 '02 '03 04 '05 '06


Yur Source: University Report on Investments


WORKING THE PHONES

A}r
-5
T

REGENTS NOTEBOOK
'U'looks at
ownership
of disputed
remains
At busy meeting, regents also
get update about the state of
H1N1on campus and approve
honorary degrees
ByKYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Speaking at the University's Board of Regents
monthly meeting yesterday, Stephen Forrest, vice
president for research, announced a
new committee had been formed to NOTEBOOK
explore how the University handles
culturally unidentifiable human remains.
The Advisory Committee on Culturally Unidenti-
fiable Human Remains, which consists of 10 faculty
members and one graduate student, will advise For-
rest on how to handle requests from Native Ameri-
can tribes for the transfer of culturally unidentifiable
human remains currently being housed in the Univer-
sity's Museum of Anthropology.
The University has come under fire in the past for
refusing to release remains, which Native American
tribes have claimed are rightfully theirs. The Univer-
sity has maintained that the remains are not identi-
fiable and that under the Native American Graves
Protection and Repatriation Act the University is
required to maintain possession of the remains until
final regulations are released or the Secretary of the
Interior explicitly directs the release of the remains.
New regulations are expected to loosen restrictions
and to dictate how the University and other organi-
zations should distribute culturally unidentifiable
human remains.
Though no new rules have been handed down yet,
Forrest said he hopes that the University will "do the
right thing, be proactive and be prepared for antici-
pated changes in federal rules."
Prof. Phil Deloria, a member of the new committee,
said he looks forward to serving on the committee.
"It's something that's concerned a lot of native
students and lot of native faculty on campus, myself
included," Deloria said. "My sense is that what this
committee will do is look at these from a critical intel-
lectual, ethical sense of positions and try to offer
advice."
However, Fred Harrington, a former member of
the Lake Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians tribal
council, said he doesn't see a need for the committee.
"I don't understand what possible good a commit-
tee can do," he said. "I don't understand how (the
University) can continue to hold the remains of tribal
ancestors in their museum unless they've followed
the law, so I'm not sure what they're doing with the
committee."
See NOTEBOOK, Page 7A

MIA MARINO/Daily
University alum Chris Wolff of Organizing for America makes calls to Michigan residents yesterday along with other members of the organization and the campus chapter of the College
Democrats. The calls targeted established President Barack Obama supporters, asking them to contact their representatives and urge them to support Obama's health care reform efforts.
The University's chapter of the College Democrats are in competition with their counterparts at Michigan State to see who can contact the most people and net the most pledges.

THREE-WHEEL E D CAoBSe
Pedicabs add leg power

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
In COnvention, MSA

to Ann Arbor taxi scene to rework constitution

Two students from
Petoskey buy
carriages on the cheap,
launch company
By GRACELIN BASKARAN
For the Daily
Ever pay your cabbie with a bur-
rito?
Didn't think so.
But if you took a pedicab, you prob-
ably could have.
Thanks to Business School sopho-
more Calvin Schemanski, pedicabs
- bicycle-powered taxi cabs - have
O come to Ann Arbor. And their drivers
will gladly take your burritos.
Schemanski and Grand Valley
State University sophomore Josh
Lycka opened Petoskey Pedicab, LLC
this summer in their hometown of
Petoskey, Mich. And in the fall, Sche-

manski brought the business back to
school with him.
"People think it's really cool and
respect the fact that we bike around
to make a living," Schemanski said.
The carriages sit on two wheels
and are pulled through the street by
a man-powered bicycle.
Hundreds of cities across the coun-
try currently have pedicab services,
including New York, Chicago and San
Francisco.
Last winter, Schemanski and
Lycka were trying to come up with
something they could do during the
summer to make some money.
"We were both working in a kitch-
en last winter and we were talking
about different things we could do
during the summer and the bike thing
came up," Schemanski said. "Then we
realized it could be plausible and we
looked into it, thought we could do it
and went for it"
Because of newly passed legisla-
See PEDICABS, Page 7A

Document sets student
rights, campus group
rules, funding framework
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assembly will
launch a constitutional convention in
the next few weeks to revise the Univer-
sity student constitution - all in hopes
of bringing legitimacy back to a docu-
ment that many students on campus
don't even know exists.
MSA student General Counsel Jim
Brusstar, who also serves as secretary
of the convention, said the student con-
stitution - which was written in 1986 -
needs some major revising.
"It's very broken up," he said. "It
doesn't have the kind of logical flow
that it should. It's not very clear about
some things. There are some parts that

are even contradictory. I mean there are
even some spelling errors."
ThoughBrusstarhasadetailedknowl-
edge of the constitution and knows what
he would like to see changed, he said
discretion will ultimately be left up to
the students involved in the convention.
"We wanted to involve people who
might not otherwise be involved," he
said. "Ultimately everyone does have a
stake in this."
The student constitution outlines the
structure of all student governments,
establishes the rights of student groups
and students and states the way in which
these groups interact, said Brusstar.
The constitutional convention will
have the chance to revise any of these
structures, from the large-scale ques-
tions like the purpose of student gov-
ernment to more practical questions
like how MSA distributes funds to stu-
dent organizations.
MSA officials hope to make the docu-
See CONVENTION, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 48 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW U 3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
In bike accident, President Coleman breaks wrist.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS................2A CLASSIFIEDS...................... 6A
Vol. CXX, No.29 OPINION .... .. .............4A SPORTS ................... ... BA
O2veThe Michigan Daily ARTS .................. . ....... TA FO TBALL SATURDAY.......... 18
michigondailycom

f


*I

2A - Friday, October 16, 2009
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here Photos of the W k

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmaiLcom

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom a
News T ips
Corrections
L.etters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
S ports Section
Dis play Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

Office hours:Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
news@michigandaily.eom
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@mnichigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

LEFT Engineering senior Nnenna Udegbunam and LSA junior Aissatou Barry teach African dance
moves to students at their dance group Amala's Makossa Night on Tuesday in the Michigan League.
The group's dancing is inspired by the music and culture of West Africa and the Congo. (Marissa
McClain/Daily) RIGHT LSA junior Anant Jain takes a moment of reflection at the Ghandi Day of Ser-
vice event on the Diag last Saturday. The event, put on by the Indian American Student Association,
was in honor of Ghandi and his work in the nonviolence movement. (Maddie LaKind/Daily)

MORE ONLINE
For more photos of the week go to michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Paper goods
swiped
WHERE: North Campus Facil-
ities Services Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
7:15 p.m.
WHAT: About 17 paper towel
rolls and 2 rolls of toilet paper
were stolen from the women's
bathroom in a one to one and a
half month period, University
Police reported. The stolen
items are valued at $70.

Mic damaged Economics

WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
8 a.m.
WHAT: A microphone was
damaged when someone tried
to remove it from a stand
without permission, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
estimated cost of the damage
is $55.

Glass topples,
Laundry lifted water spills

workshop
WHAT: This week's workshop
topic is Economic Crises as
Transformative Events and is
being led by William H. Sewell,
Jr., and PhD candidates from
the Anthropology and History
Departments
WHO: History - Eisenberg
Institute
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 2 p.m.
WHERE: Tisch Hall, Room
1014
Nature talk
WHAT: Josh Cornell, a
nature educator, hosts a dis-
cussion and how to become
more connected with nature.
WHO: Matthei Botani-
cal Gardens and Nichols
Arbretum
WHEN: Today at4 p.m.
WHERE: Dana Natural
Resources Building, Room 1040

Survival bingo
WHAT: Free, fast-paced
game of bingo in which stu-
dents receive prizes.
WHO: University Unions Arts
and Programs
WHEN: Monday at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
NY quintet
WHAT: Gandalf Murphy
and the Slambovian Circus of
Dreams perform music remis-
cent of folk rock from 1960s.
WHO: Michigan Union Tick-
et Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
CORRECTIONS
* An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Beren-
son preaches offensive tough-
ness) incorrectly identified
Michigan hockey coach, Red
Berenson's position in the
NHL. He was a center.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Department of Public Safe-
ty spokeswoman, Diane
Brown said the crime alert
issued Tuesday after a man
took $400 worth of $20 bills
from a cash register at UGo's
in the Michigan League was
canceled. Brown said another
agency arrested a suspect after
getting a tip from a student.
About 10,000 students
and faculty work and live
on North Campus.
*FOR MORE, SEE OPINION PAGE 4A
3Two inmates at the Rock-
Ingham County House of
Corrections sent letters to
the superintendent asking to be
kept beyond their court-man-
dated stays, Fosters.com report-
ed. The inmates feared being
released and not being able to
find work in the this economy.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SMilovitZ ManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
ASSISNTsESnDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave EditorialPagetEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE E DITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS: EmmaJeszke,MatthewShutler
Andy Reid Managingospors ,dito Mreid@mchigandaily.com
SENIORoSeORTSvEIORS:ioles Atuerbachsike Eiasnsti,Ian. a,uth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon JuncajRyan
KarieCrsv zrs, Rya,,, n.Podges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor wanick@nichigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, David Riva,
Jeff Sanford
Zachary Meisnerand photo@nlichigandaily.com
Cli Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak, Sam.Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
MaureenStych MaanagingDesignEditors
SENI[OR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
JessicaVOsgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanieied,AdiWollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak Sales Mnager
SALeFORCEMANAGER:MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben EnglishProductionManager
Allison Santacreu LayoutManager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The MichiganDaily(ISSNo745-%7)ispublishedMondaythroughFriday duringthefallandwinter
termsbystudentsattheUniversity of Michigan.Oneecopyis avalablefreeof chargetoalreaders.
Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
September,viaU.S.mailare $110. Winetetrmaanuary through April)is$115, yearlong(September
through ApriOvisv$15.University affiates are subject to areduced subscription rate.On-campus
subscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbepraid.TheMichiganDailyisamemberof
The Associated Pressand The AssociatedcollegiatePress.

WHERE: Couzens Residence
Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
11:30 p.m.
WHAT: Clothing valued at
$245 was stolen from the laun-
dry room, University Police
reported.

WHERE:C.C. Little
WHEN: Wednesday at about
11:35 p.m.
WHAT: A glass with a clear
liquid was knocked over by
building services, University
Police reported. The liquid was
water.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandail.com/blogs/the wMre -


ON THE WEB, ON
TWITTER, ON FACEBOOK AND IN PRINT
No matter the platform, the Daily keeps you connected to the
news you need to know.

Kansas legislator's 'Red Neck Rap'
video taken down from YouTube

Videoby Republican
BillkOtto criticizes
PresidentObama
TOPEKA, Kan. (AP) - A video
featuring a Kansas legislator criti-
cizing President Barack Obama's
policies while wearing a hat
describing opossum as "the other
dark meat" was removed yesterday
from YouTube, where the lawmak-
er had posted it last month.
Republican Rep. Bill Otto said
he didn't remove the video, titled
"RedNeck Rap," and didn't know
whyithadbeentakendown. Google
Inc., YouTube's owner, could offer
no explanation.
Otto said criticism of the video
was unfounded. He said the hat's
saying, which he repeats at the end
of the short video, refers to redneck
stereotypes, not Obama.
The White House declined to
comment yesterday, but Kansas
Senate Minority Leader Anthony
Hensley, a Topeka Democrat, called

the video "disturbing." He said it's
logical to see the reference as being
to the first black president's race.
In the video, Otto pauses after
criticizing Obama and his policies,
repeats the saying on the cap and
adds, "A little greasy, but hey."
"It's a reference to rednecks,"
Otto said during a telephone inter-
view from his home in LeRoy, a
small town about 75 miles south of
Topeka. "It's like 'The Beverly Hill-
billies,'eating opossumbellies, grits
and pigs' feet."
The flap comes less than two
months after U.S. Rep. Lynn Jen-
kins, another Kansas Republican,
remarked in a public forum that
the GOP was still looking for "a
great white hope." She later said
she wasn't referring to Obama and
didn'tknowofthe phrase'spastlink
to pre-civil-rights era racism.
Attempts by AP to access Otto's
video Thursday night resulted in
a message stating that it had been
"removed by the user." Google
spokesman Scott Rubin said if a
video is removed for violating You-

Tube's standards, a message would
say so.
"With 20 hours of video upload-
ed every minute to YouTube, we
cannot comment on individual vid-
eos," he said in an e-mail.
Meanwhile, Hensley accused
Otto of "bigotry."
"If opossum is the other dark
meat, whatis the original darkmeat
he is referring to?" Hensley said. "It
is not only thoughtless, but outra-
geous."
Otto replied:"Idon't know where
he's getting that."
Hensley, though, pointed to an
incidenthesaidhappenedearlierthis
year involving Patrick Woods, legis-
lative liaison for the Department of
Social and Rehabilitation Services.
Woods said he encountered Otto
in March while walking between
the Statehouse and an office build-
ing, and Otto said he'd confused
Woods with Rod Bremby, the state's
secretary of health and environ-
ment. Woods said Otto told him, "I
almost shot you. You look a lot like
Secretary Bremby."


Make sure students
int the right crib.
Fall Realty Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop students from
thinking about housing early, so why should youtAdvertise
leases for now, May, and Fall 2010! Reach over 40,000
students and other University members.
Presentedby The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.cOm

0i


9 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 16, 2009 - 3A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 16, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
HUDSONVILLE, Mich.
Woman embezzles
parents' savings
Authorities have charged a
west Michigan woman with
embezzling at least $100,000
from her parents' life savings of
$275,000.
Eloise Russo is accused of tak-
ing the money to pay for gam-
bling losses, a $10,000 gift and
a $16,000 new car for her sister.
The 53-year-old woman is free on
bond following her arraignment
Wednesday - two days after her
father, Thomas Sherwin of Hud-
sonville, died at age 90.
Russo was appointed guardian
to her father and her 83-year-old
mother, Ada, in April 2007. Otta-
wa County Probate Judge Mark
Feyen removed her from the post
in July 2008 after allegations of
fraud emerged.
" Russo's lawyer, Kelly Lambert,
tells The Grand Rapids Press his
client only borrowed the money
and always intended to return it.
NEW YORK
Man posing as
lawyer scams
immigrants
A convicted bigamist posing
as a veteran immigration lawyer
scammed thousands of dollars
from Guyanese immigrants and
gave them advice so bad they
now face deportation, prosecu-
tors said Thursday.
Wilmer Rivera Melendez
promised green cards but pur-
sued avenues that would never
yield them, changed his phone
number to evade his "clients"
when they started asking ques-
tions and even startled some
by proposing they marry him
in order to get legal residency,
prosecutors said.
Melendez, 60, denied the alle-
gations, which add to a series of
far-flung and colorful brushes
with the law. Records show he
was imprisoned for bigamy in
Georgia; prosecutors said he also
was convicted in an office bur-
glary in the U.S. Virgin Islands
and broke out of an Ohio jail
through a ceiling hole in 1971.
MEXICO CITY
Overweight
" police officers
put on diet
The NYPD have their dough-
nuts. Mexico City police offi-
cers have their tacos. Too many,
apparently. The Mexican capital
is puttingits 1,300 heaviestpolice
officers on adiettoncerned about
expanding waistlines in the force.
Mexico City Public Safety official
Noral Prias said 70 percent of the
capital's 70,000-member force is
overweight.
However, the diet program
will start with 1,300 officers with
the most serious weight-related
health problems.
She said the officers will be
given blood and cholesterol tests

to determine a personalized diet
plan for each.
"We can't tell them, 'Don't eat
sandwiches and tacos,"' Frias
said. "What we can tell them is if
you eatonesandwich today, if you
eat three tacos today, then bal-
ance it with some vegetables."
FORT COLLINS, Colo.
Boy believed to
have floated away
in balloon found
safe at home
A 6-year-old boy was found
hiding in a cardboard box in his
family's garage Thursday after be-
ing feared aboard ahomemade he-
lium balloon that hurtled 50 miles
through the sky on live television.
The discoverymarked a bizarre
endto asagathatstartedwhen the
giant silvery balloon floated away
from the family's yard Thursday
morning, sparking a frantic res-
cue operation that involved mili-
tary helicopters and briefly halted
some departures from Denver In-
ternational Airport.
Then, more than two hours
after the balloon gently touched
down in a field with no sign of the
boy, Sheriff Jim Alderden turned
to reporters duringa news confer-
ence, gave a thumbs up and said
6-year-old Falcon Heene was "at
0 the house."
"Apparently he's been there the
whole time," he said.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

NY State Sen.
acquitted of
felony assault

President Barack Obama greets the crowd after par ticipating in a town hall meeting yesterday at the Universit y of New Orleans in
New Orleans. Obama is hearing directly from area people about Gulf Coast rebuilding efforts after Hurricane Katrina.
Obama defends G
Coast recovery plans

Surveillance tapes
show state senator
assaulting girlfriend
NEW YORK (AP) - A freshman
state senator was acquitted yes-
terday of smashing a glass into his
girlfriend's face, but was convict-
ed of a lesser charge for dragging
her bleeding from his apartment
in a violent scene caught on vid-
eotape.
State Sen. Hiram Monserrate,
a Queens Democrat, would have
lost his Senate seat if convicted
of second-degree felony assault.
He faces up to a year in prison at
his sentencing Dec. 4 on a mis-
demeanor count of third-degree
reckless assault for injuring Karla
Giraldo while pullingher through
a lobby as she resisted, crying and
latching on to banisters.
While a misdemeanor convic-
tion doesn't automatically force
Monserrate to vacate his Senate
seat, it opens the door for col-
leagues to consider passing a res-
olution to either censure or expel
him. That would require a 32-vote
majority following a committee
investigation. Republicans hold
30 seats and would need just two
Democrats to join them to remove
Monserrate, whose term runs
through 2010.
Monserrate, 42, said he tripped
while holding the glass, and
rushed her to a hospital. Giraldo
also said it was an accident. The
wound above her left eye required
between 20 and 40 stitches.
"A terrible accident occurred
to my girlfriend, Karla Giraldo, a
person that I love, and I have to
live with that forever. There were
nowinnershere," Monserrate said
outside court after the verdict.
The outcome of the case rested
mainly with Giraldo's testimony.
She said on the witness stand
that her language barrier (Giral-

do's native language is Spanish)
prevented her from communicat-
ing properly with the staff at Long
Island Jewish-North Shore Medi-
cal Center.
But she also dodged the pros-
ecution's questions, sometimes
answering only when the judge
ordered her to and often contra-
dicted previous statements she
made. Assistant district attorney
Scott Kessler said during closing
arguments that she wasn't cred-
ible, and she lied on the witness
stand to protect her abusive boy-
friend.
But Judge William Erlbaum,
ruling in a non-jury trial, said
Giraldo's testimony carried more
weight than that of the medical
personnel, and it had to be taken at
face value.
"There are two people who
have actual knowledge about what
happened in that apartment," Erl-
baum said. "Can one know she's
not being forgiving or that she's
not being compassionate? One
can't know that."
Prosecutors said Monserrate-
a Marine and ex-cop - smashed
Giraldo's face during an argument
at his apartment Dec. 19 sparked
by another man's card he found in
her purse.
Surveillance tape shows Mon-
serrate take the card to the trash
chute outside his apartment, wave
it at Giraldo, and toss it down.
They spent the next two hours
fighting, according to testimony
from a downstairs neighbor who
said she banged on the ceiling with
a broom to get them to quiet down.
She heard a woman crying and a
thump.
Grainy surveillance footage
later showed Giraldo making a
beeline for the neighbor's door,
as Monserrate grabbed her and
dragged her downstairs.
District attorney Richard A.
Brown, speaking after the verdict,
said the conviction justified the

Obama fires back
at critics on his first
trip to the Gulf Coast
NEW ORLEANS (AP) - Insist-
inghe's "justgettingstarted," Pres-
ident Barack Obama defended his
administration yesterday against
complaints from some residents of
the hurricane-ravaged Gulf Coast
thatfederalhelp inrecoveringfrom
the 2005 disasters hasn't improved
much since he took office.
"We've got a long way to go but
we've made progress," Obama told
a town hall at the University of
New Orleans. "We're working as
hard as we can and as quickly as
we can."
As a candidate, Obama criticized
former President George W. Bush's
response to Katrina, when the gov-
ernment showed up late and unpre-
pared and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency became the
object of widespread scorn.
Thestorm killedsomet1,600peo-
ple in Louisiana and Mississippi -
and damage has been estimated at
roughly $40 billion. The damage is
still starkly visible in New Orleans
- in blighted neighborhoods of

creaky houses, boarded-up busi-
nesses, structure after structure
awaiting demolition and critical
recovery work not yet started.
Obama wanted to use his first
visit as president to the Gulf Coast
to listen to residents' concerns
about the recovery effort. And
although most questions were on
unrelated subjects, one man gave
him an earful.
"I expected as much from the
Bush administration, but why are
we still being nickeled and dimed
in our recovery?" asked Gabriel
Bordenave, 29, of New Orleans.
"I wish I could write a blank
check," Obama replied, promot-
ing Bordenave to shout back,
"Why not?"
Obama claimed progress since
he entered the White House in
January. He cited reconstruction
projects that have moved forward
after having been stalled by dis-
agreements over whether the state
or federal government would foot
the bill. FEMA is working "around
the clock to clear up red tape and to
eliminate bureaucracy on backlogs
that go back years," he said.
According to FEMA, 76 of the
120 Louisiana reconstruction proj-
ects that were stuck at the begin-

ning of his presidency have been
resolved, sending more than $1.4
billion in additional federal aid to
Louisiana.
"I know since a lot of these
problems have been going on since
Katrina, people understandably*
feel impatient," Obayna told the
crowd of, several hundred who
won tickets in an Internet lottery
to attend. "On the other hand, a lot
of these things are not going to be
fixed tomorrow."
Obama said officials from his
administration have made 35 trips
to the Gulf Coast since March -
and "notjust to make appearances,
but to listen and to learn and help
you move forward."
In his opening remarks, Obama
acknowledged residents' frustra-
tion about the pace of recovery.
As evidence, he cited firefighters
working from a trailer at a newly
reopened school in the Lower
Ninth ward that he visited earlier
Thursday.
"It's clear how far we have to go
before we can call this recovery a
success," Obama said, noting sew-
ers and roads that still need repair,
houses and hospitals that are still
vacant and schools and neighbor-
hoods still waiting to thrive.

- All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
f~claO~s - eazt 77e 610-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1

-re 0apyHor in0ufet4

T.


Police hero in Ill.university
shooting faces suspension

'1 laynnrdst ~.nn na Nn T4A Wsa.n ss ,aNmajte otna ws nrsnrrkinn 4an

i

iv ividy iii u ot.-ruuu i u uu tiff vvu.u i uu-ivcAt to u w ividyi iai u rdminy 3u uutui

It

00I3.0E

Northern Illinois
University police
chief criticized for
gruff demeanor
CHICAGO (AP) - Atough-talk-
ing police chief hailed as a hero
for leading his men into a North-
ern Illinois University classroom
last year after a gunman opened
fire is now seen by some as a vil-
lain, of sorts, and is in danger of
losing his $199,000-a-year job.
The persona that won Donald
Grady laurels from survivors of
the Valentine's Day shooting that
left five students and the gun-
man dead is a now liability, say
a growing number of critics who
accuse Grady of being combative
and uncooperative.
Criticism of NIU's 6-foot-5 top
cop came to a head recently after
an editor of the campus newspa-
per accused Grady of threatening
and shouting at him during an
interview that became a three-
hour tirade.
"It's time to put an end to this
mess. It's time for a change,"
the Northern Star student paper
wrote in a blistering editorial
calling for Grady's removal. It
accused him of an "empirical
reign" and of employing intimi-
dation to get his way.
School officials put the
56-year-old Grady on paid leave
for 30 days starting last week
while a panel reviews the alle-
gations by editor in chief Justin
Weaver. A finding by next month
could result in Grady's dismissal,
NIU spokeswoman Kathy Buett-
ner said.
Grady responded to an e-mail
yesterday saying he couldn't dis-
cuss the matter.
But NIU police Sgt. Ramon
Holland defended his boss in a let-

ter in Wednesday's Northern Star,
praising Grady for pushingofficers
to improve their skills and to meet
the highest ethical standards.
The newspaper's main concern
was Grady's strained relations
with other area agencies, said
Weaver. The 22-year-old from
Beloit, Wis., said that threatened
to undermine overall campus
security.
"Because of that, combined
with the hostile work atmosphere
that a lot of people in the univer-
sity say he creates, we believe
we'd be better served with some-
one more willing to work with
other agencies," he said.
DeKalb County Sheriff Roger
Scott is among the officials who
have publicly backed the paper's
call for Grady's ouster or resig-
nation.
"NIU has isolated itself under
his leadership," Scott said.
The sheriff hastened to praise
Grady's immediate response to
the attack on Feb. 14, 2008.
As 911 calls came in about gun-
shots, Grady, a former sprint star,
bolted from his office and ran
the 400 yards between his office
and Cole Hall against waves of
screaming students fleeing the
complex.
Grady and several officers
rushed into the classroom. The
shooter, 27-year-old former NIU
student Steven Kazmierczak,
already was dead of a self-inflict-
ed gunshot. But survivors praised
Grady for displaying bravery
when he couldn't have known
that, and for quickly administer-
ing aid and comforting injured
students.
Grady also won kudos for bol-
stering campus security earlier
and for drawing up plans for crisis
scenarios - including a shooting
on the 25,000-student campus. For
weeks after the tragedy, students
applauded Grady when he walked

by, some even hugging him.
But his critics say that however
good Grady may be in a crisis, he's
less well-suited for the day-to-day
grind of a campus police chief.
Controversy has dogged
Grady, who also is from Beloit,
Wis., during his career. After
becoming Wisconsin's first black
police chief in the mostly white
town of Bloomer in 1989, he cre-
ated a stir by issuing nearly 300
tickets, including to himself, for
violations of a snow-shoveling
ordinance.
When he became Santa Fe,
N.M., chief in 1994, he ordered
officers to stop accepting free
cups of coffee on the job and
banned bolo ties.
Police responded with a 103-
to-5 no-confidence vote in their
boss. After digging in his heels for
two years, Grady resigned, saying
his reforms had encountered too
much resistance.
And at NIU, well before the
shooting, staff of the student
newspaper had already com-
plained that he often withheld
standard crime reports, requir-
ing the paper to file Freedom of
Information Act requests.
He has failed so far to release an
official report on the Valentine's
Day shooting. Asked earlier this
year why he hadn't done so, Grady
said he would rather not hear the
gunman's name again, that he
didn't want to give Kazmierczak
the notoriety he sought.
He also said there's no dispute
about what he deemed the most
important facts.
"You want to know who the
suspect is? You know that. He's
dead," said Grady, his stern,
booming voice rising. "You want
to know how many guns he had?
You know that. You want to know
how many victims there were?
You know that. What else do you
need to know?"

OW 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20TH from 11am to 6pm
WJ4ER E
BISTRO SPORTS BAR and GRILL
4735 Washtenaw Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
A VALID ID. AND RECENT PHOTO
FOR MORE INFO VISIT
WWW.SUNI?4-Mt)RRAY4.OM ,,..a. RO ft OCT Ot f t


4A - Friday, October 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

L74t AiC4igan 43at*[9

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR, MANAGING EDITOR

I was in the attic and he scared me
because he yelled at mne:
- Six-year-old Falcon Heene, explaining why he hid from his father, who thought the boy
had escaped in an experimental balloon, as reported yesterday by MSNBC.

0

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
A greener blue bus
'U'in serious need of more routes to North Campus
t's regrettably true that North Campus can seem like a sep-
arate college for those who live there. And the difficulty of
traveling between North Campus and Central Campus is cer-
tainly a major factor in that feeling of isolation, as anyone who has
attempted the journey at peak hours can attest to. But with impor-
tant developments happening on North Campus, the University is
planning to look into ways of easing the strain on existing meth-
ods of transportation. The University should consider all options
to improve transportation between North Campus and Central
Campus and should aim for a greener commute.

ADRIAN CHOY I

E-MAIL ADRIAN AT AWCHOY@UMICH.EDU

The hassle ofhistoric housing.

In her annual State of the University
address on Oct. 5, University President Mary
Sue Coleman announced the formation of a
committee to explore transportation alter-
natives to improve intercampus connectiv-
ity. The committee, scheduled to meet in
early 2010, would consist of transportation
experts and local authorities. According to
an Oct.18 AnnArbor.com article, the commit-
tee will consider a wide array of options to
expand the University's transportation sys-
tem, including a new bus stop on Fuller Road
across from the hospital, better bicycle lanes
and a rail system. The committee wants to
address current inequities in intercampus
connectivity and insure that the transporta-
tion needs of the University population are
fully met.
For many students, North Campus may
seem like a far-off land, home only to Burs-
ley and Baits Residence Halls, freshmen and
a host of brainy engineers. But according to
the University, around 10,000 students and
faculty members live and work on North
Campus. To prevent the creation of a divid-
ed campus, it is essential to have a smooth
transportation system connecting these two
areas.Andthe currentsystem,with cramped
buses and long rides, isn't cutting it.
Improving transportation to North Cam-
pus is especially important due to develop-
ments in the last year. One of the catalysts

behind the formation of the transportation
committee was the University's purchase the
174-acre former Pfizer site, which has now
been renamed the North Campus Research
Complex. According to the Daily, about
2,000 employees are expected to inhabit the
NCRC when it opens for regular business,
definitely increasing traffic to North Cam-
pus. To compensate, more avenues for trans-
portation are clearly needed.
As the Universitylooks for ways to expand
transportation, it should keep in mind
that a well-organized mass transit system
should be environmentally friendly. For
example, both the city and the University
run buses on bio-diesel rather than conven-
tional fuels. But the University has resisted
following the city's example of switching
to hybrid buses. Although initially costly,
hybrid buses are cheaper in the long run
and better for the environment. Now could
be a prime opportunity for the University
to make this investment. Greener transpor-
tation methods are both dependable and
conscientious.
North Campus shouldn't feel like that dis-
tant step cousin you only see at Christmas.
The University needs to offer students and
employees more options for bridgingthe gap
between the two campuses, because with
the NCRC opening, the buses are only going
to get tighter.

There is a lot of drama sur-
rounding City Place, a pro-
posed apartment complex on
South Fifth Avenue,
and it's all much
ado about history.
Residents had been
trying to halt the
complex's approval,
by forming a his-
toric district in the
neighborhood. Now
that the developer
is working to pre- JAMIE
serve the history BLOCK
of the homes with
a new design, the
focus of the objec-
tions has shifted to preserving a tree,
- notably the tree on the Ann Arbor.
city seal. The old bur seems to have
found itself in the wrong place at the
wrong time.
As City Place developer Alex de
Parry told AnnArbor.com on Oct. 12,
"I hate to say a tree is driving alot of
this, but this tree is driving alot of it."
Well, sir, I hate to hear it, too.
But then again, I've really disagreed
with the residents' objections the
whole time. I'm an appreciator of the
arts (I'm a senior arts editor, after all),
and I fully acknowledge that architec-
ture is considered one of the original
fine arts, but I simply do not support
the idea of historic districts - here
or anywhere else. To halt Ann Arbor
development because we want to keep
some old houses around is absolutely
ridiculous. Population density needs
to be a key focus of the city right now,
and no amount of rustic porches is
going to solve any problems.

Low-income housing is needed
now more than ever, and we ought
to be building as many complexes as
possible to support low-income fami-
lies in Ann Arbor. To argue that the
need to preserve historic architec-
ture supersedes the need to provide
shelter is preposterous. There is no
building so beautiful or old that its
value is greater than that of preserv-
ing people's well-being.
But there's a simple supply and
demand counterargument to be made
here, too. You don't need to be an econ
major to know that people wouldn't
want to build somethingthatwouldn't
be profitable, that a service is only
profitable if people buy it and, finally,
that people usually don't buy things
they don't want. Logically deduced
from these simple points, we can
gather that buildings are built to meet
some form of popular demand. And
while there may be some demand to
have old buildings sitting around to
remind us what cities looked like back
when smallpox was still a big deal, this
seems like a paralyzing outlook when
it comes to modern expansion. There
are plenty of reasons not to want a
Wal-Mart in the middle of your small
town, but the fact that old Jeremiah
Jenkins once used to rock in that old
rocking chair in your attic shouldn't
be one of them.
But there is one argument in favor
of historic districts I have failed to
address - the artistic argument. It's
a prevalent but unfortunate trend
that all the old buildings are pretty
and all the new ones look like park-
ing lots. We have museums and other
forms of preservation for most every

other kind of art, but a museum full of
old buildings is hardly practical. The
point here is that the only remaining
viable defense for preserving these
old homes would be to consider the
phrase "historic district" as code for
"outdoor museum full of old, pretty
buildings." As I said, I'm all about the
arts, but no amount of artistic value is
worth taking up so much prime real
estate for a giant museum that most
non-residents don't even see. Call me
a dystopian, sightless fool for point-
ing this out - I'd be flattered if you
did, actually - but there's no practical
need to preserve every bit of art in this
world, no matter how big or old it may
be. If I had my way, we'd tear down all
the old historic forts and monuments
to put up homeless shelters.
Expansion should
trump old buildings
every time.
Historic districts, especially in a
time of economic recession with a
need for low-income housing, serve
no pragmatic purpose. If you want to
value aesthetics over advancement,
be my guest. But now is not the time
to get bogged down in buildings of
bygone times.
- Jamie Block is a senior
arts editor. He can be reached
at jamblock@umich.edu.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya,
Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
WILL BUTLER I
Making Detroit sustainable

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers to join
the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing
and writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

Detroit used to be king. It was the Silicon Val-
ley of its day - a city built on innovation and new
technology. Its only rule was to keep advancing
its industry. But Detroit broke that rule. It held
on to the automotive market for too long and
then was forced to watch as the city fell into
economic despair. Detroit's auto manufactur-
ers stopped adapting to a changing society and
foreign competition, which caused its long fall
from grace.
But I know that this isn't the end, and it's
because of Detroit's great automotive past that
the city is uniquely poised for a manufacturing
comeback. Detroit holds the needed infrastruc-
ture, workforce and space to match green indus-
try with profitability and becaame the world's
green epicenter. Detroit can become the king of
innovation and new technology once again.
Detroit is a huge city. Only a small portion
of its approximately 138 square miles is actu-
ally densely developed, and so it contains a large
amount of space. This is a trait that other large
cities don't have. So why not use this space for
something productive and economically benefi-
cial to the Detroit?
The vacant lots, instead of being ghosts of
the city's past, could be turned into commercial
farms and became products of the future. Small
urban farms and community gardens already
exist within the city, which provides examples
of urban environmentalism, but this idea needs
to be expanded to become profitable. Large
commercial farms, with an emphasis on envi-
ronmental sustainability, would grow Detroit
businesses not only locally but also across state
lines. These farms could encompass the not-so-
dense areas of Detroit and provide much needed
employment for the city.
Along with open space, Detroit contains fac-
tories; which makes the idea of bringing green
businesses to the city seemingly contradictory.
But the manufacturing infrastructure of the city
only gives it advantages. It is the most fiscally
responsible choice for green companies. Why
build a new factory when you can use an existing

one? The city not only has the infrastructure for
large-scale green manufacturing but the work-
force as well. Using the city's strong population
of factory workers and engineers, companies
can save time in the turnover from training to
producing. Imagine that famous Detroit muscle
and steel constructing massive numbers of solar
panels on the assembly line instead of cars.
The growth of a green Detroit doesn't just
stop at the city limits. It would ripple through-
out the entire state. Specifically, Ann Arbor
would undoubtedly see enormous benefits since
it's located so closely to Detroit. A green Detroit
would not only encourage job growth here, but
would present unique possibilities to the Uni-
versity for partnerships with the private sec-
tor. Such partnerships would not only aid the
University's commitment to environmental
sustainability and research, such as the goals
highlighted by University President Mary Sue
Coleman in her State of the University address,
but would also educate generations of young,
environmentally-conscious minds. A partner-
ship would also further feed the workforce of
green companies and provide close employment
to graduates.
Detroit was a city built on hard work and
innovation. And although those ideas have
partially been forgotten by the industry that
thrived on them, they can still be used to
rebuild. Detroit, because of its past, is ina prime
position to become the world's green epicenter,
which would benefit not only the city but also
the entire state through increased employment
and revenue.
Michigan's economic success is dependent on
a revitalized and profitable Detroit. Although it
may be hard to see through the lens of today's
economic recession, Detroit's green future is
not too far off. It can once again lead in advanc-
ing industry and innovation. Detroit was once
king, and I say it's time for the city to reclaim
its crown.
Will Butler is an LSA freshman.

Innovation domination

A sk any person on the street, least. This imbalance in innovation
and they'll probably tell you can be partly explained by U.S. leads
that the U.S. has the larg- in another area: graduate schools and
est economy of research universities. According to
any nation in the the Academic Ranking of World Uni-
world. But there is versities, more than 30 of the top 40
much more uncer- universities in the world are in the
tainty about how U.S. With their prestige, research,
the country actu- facilities and highly esteemed pro-
ally got there. Some grams, American research universi-
students probably ties are very successful in attracting
had grandparents brainpower from within and outside
who told them that BRIAN of the U.S.
Americans just FLAHERTY The role of this knowledge is more
work harder than important now than ever. The mod-
people in other ern world of invention looks a lot
countries. The different from the world of Edison
preachers on the Diag might be more or Ford. In growing areas of the U.S.
inclined to tell you that God did it. economy like medicine, energy and
But I'm partial toward the explana- IT, it's increasingly difficult for a
tion offered by President Franklin single person to create breakthrough
Roosevelt, who credited America's technologies in his or her backyard.
success to "that spark of creativity Research universities, corporations
and ingenuity - which has always and startups that employ university
been at the heart of who we are and graduates fill a void by pouring bil-
how we succeed." And universities lions into laboratories, computers
like this one are now at the center of and research projects. This results in
the ingenuity my favorite president new technologies, new products, new
was talking about. jobs and new value for beneficiaries.
One of the most remarkable fea- Among other things, this research
tures of the U.S. is, to me, the coun- contributes to genetic engineering
try's preeminence in innovation. If of food to the drugs you take when
innovation were a pie, Americans you're sick.
would be eatingmuch more thantheir Although it's not always entirely
fair shares. Of the roughly 800 Nobel obvious, innovation is taking place
Prizes awarded since 1901, more than behind the scenes at universities
300 were awarded to Americans in across the country, including here.
areas including physics, chemistry And these innovations have real eco-
and medicine. (The United Kingdom nomic effects. A 2009 study of Michi-
was the runner-up, with 114 at last gan's top three research universities
count.) Although other nations have found that the institutions generated
been gaining ground, the U.S. still a $16 economic benefit for every dol-
holds a hefty lead in the number of lar invested by the state and produced
patents it produces. an economic impact of $14.5 billion -
That the U.S., which comprises less large enough to support more than
than five percent of the world's popu- 48,000 full time employees. On top
lation, has produced over 35 percent of that, they produced more than
of the world's Nobel Prize Laureates 480 inventions, 120 patents and 130
is quite an achievement, to say the t licenses during the past five years.

From the looks of it, at least some
of these inventions are goingto result
in startup companies right in our own
backyard. Just recently, the Universi-
ty announced the launch of the Mich-
igan Venture Center, an organization
that will pair faculty and research-
ers with entrepreneurs and inves-
tors to launch startups based around
University research and inventions.
In the past, the University has been
involved in launching about nine
startups per year, but the number is
anticipated to increase to 12 with this
new public-private partnership.
Research colleges
hold the key to a
great economy.
Research universities make good
use of the limited money available
for their research. But as a nation,
the U.S. is tanking. The U.S. is now
behind Europe and Asia in the num-
ber of degrees it awards in science
and engineering, in both undergradu-
ate and graduate programs. Although
the U.S. continues to spend more on
research and development than the
European Union and other nations,
the percent of GDP the government
spends on R&D is much lower. Politi-
cians don't typically gain popularity
by investing tax dollars in research,
development and universities. But
they ought to. Innovation matters,
and it springs from research univer-
sities - not from thin air.
- Brian Flaherty is an associate
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at bflawumich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and
University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 16, 2009 - 5A

You know what they say about big horns.

'Tame 'Wild Things'

* Though visually stunning,
'Where the Wild Things
Are' can't reproduce the
magic of the book
By JENNIFER XU
Daily Arts Writer
At this point, you have probably seen the
"Where the Wild Things Are"
trailer taking up every other
commercial spot on TV, blar-
ing an earnest rendition of the WIhere
Arcade Fire's "Wake Up." You ffmWfd
have probably looked through
the windows of Urban Outfit- ThingS Are
ters, which peddles the film's At Quality 16
characteristic stuffed ani- and Showcase
mals, T-shirts and leggings -
maybe you have even bought Warner Bros.
yourself a shirt or two. The
"Wild Things" franchise has literally turned
into a hipster's nirvana, and most people haven't
even seen the movie yet. But let this review be a
warning: Don't expect too much, because you
will inevitably be disappointed.
Director Spike Jonze ("Being John Mal-
kovich") and co-screenwriter Dave Eggers
("Away We Go") have adapted Maurice Send-
ak's timeless children's picture book "Where
the Wild Things Are" into a full-length film,
extendinglo lines of plot into 94 minutes of cin-
ema. Max (newcomer Max Records) is a rebel-
lious kid trying to cope with the changes in his
life after his mom (Catherine Keener, "The 40
Year Old Virgin") brings her boyfriend (Mark
Ruffalo, "Zodiac") over. After being sent to his
room and biting his mom, Max angrily sails off

into the land of the Wild Things, where he sub-
sequently becomes their king.
"Where the Wild Things Are" is a film in
which things aren't wrapped up in nice, kid-
friendly boxes. The Wild Things are scary.
These huge-headed creatures do horrific things
like destroy trees, push whole boulders off cliffs
and eat the humans they don't like. But simul-
taneously, their destruction is beautiful. When
Carol, a Wild Thing voiced neurotically by
James Gandolfini (TV's "The Sopranos"), bal-
letically body slams his friends and annihilates
their nests, it's frightening, but also magical.
Directors often tend to romanticize childhood
as a time of painless bliss. "Wild Things," on
the other hand, is a perfect encapsulation of a
child's monstrous capabilities without appear-
ing too threatening.
The dialogue is delivered strictly in"kid speak"
- it's doubtful that any word in the screenplay
exceeds two syllables. In this way, Jonze stays
faithfully true to akid's world. Max is a kid act-
ing like a kid, akid who can't completely express
his thoughts in understandable sentences. While
this is at first charming, viewers will eventually
find themselves in a world they don't completely
understand. If the emotions evoked from the film
can't be described inwords,they need tobe made
up in some other kind of intangibility, and in that
regard, Jonze fails to deliver. When the Wild
Things pile up in a huge sleeping heap, it's cute
and everything, but there's also an overwhelm-
ing feeling of alienation. It's like Jonze tries so
badly to capture the spirit of childhood that he
doesn't consider that maybe the adults watching
can't keep up.
It's difficult to sift through the feelings
evoked from this movie at first because it looks
so damngorgeous. The casting is as close to per-
fect as it can get. Max's face could have been cut
out of a Renaissance painting. Sunlight liber-

ally bathes each camera shot, and it's as if some
minimalist Japanese designer dreamed up the
scenes where Carol and Max tread through a
land inundated with sand. In the film's sound-
track, Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs tenderly
vocalizes through conflict and resolution alike.
If emotions could be told purely through visu-
als and hipster music, Jonze has literally made
the most perfect film of the year. But while this
might well be the mostbeautiful movie of 2009,
it's also the most underwhelming.
The thing is, there is no way Jonze could
have executed the movie any better. The visu-
als stay true to Sendak's haunting, soulful
drawings - even adding a layer of depth to
them. It is undeniable that Jonze has captured
the voice of the book perfectly; however, that is
not enough to translate into a working movie.
Whereas the book focuses on one beautifully
illustrated scene, Jonze tries to turn that scene
into a long parable on life. Somehow it just
doesn't ring true.
This conundrum leads to a larger question:
If something like this doesn't completely gel
with adults, will kids be more forgiving of, or
even feel, the film's emotional disconnect? The
viewer is expected to see the world through
Max's lens, and, for some, this may prove near-
ly impossible. Yet this is a film that necessi-
tates the absence of adult bias in order to truly
appreciate its subtleties. Perhaps Jonze made
a film targeted exclusively toward kids and
adults who act like kids, a kind of Rorschach
test that only the few sincerely connected to
their childhood could pass.
"Where the Wild Things Are" isn't a disaster
- there are some scenes that are truly sublime.
But a movie like this, for all its lush, slightly
unorthodox visuals and standoffish childlike
simplicity, builds itself up to be brilliant. And
it's just not brilliant.

Wilco's Stirratt
(The Interview)
By MIKE KUNTZ the record's cover by having a camel
Daily Arts Writer in a party hat front and center.
"All we had to go on was that we
Wilco's rise from alt-country to were in Milwaukee, we rented a
avant-pop and, camel and we had the Nudie suits,
more recently, and we just threw a lot of shit at the
"dad rock" has wall," Stirratt said, laughing. "We
been well chron- Tonight, tried to find an image that was as
icled. The band 7:30 p.m. close to being, in our minds, iconic
has undergone Hill Auditorium or something, and that was the one
a steady, if not Sold out ... (De Wilde) did a great job, and
unpredictable, that was the shot."
evolution appar- When asked how the new songs
ent with each album. With recent translate live, Stirratt sounded
press anointing Wilco as one of enthusiastic.
the great bands of the generation, "It was a pretty seamless transi-
it seems like the band has been tion to the stage. I think with Sky
brought to the forefront of Ameri- Blue Sky we kind of had to beef
can rock music, with some critics things up a little bit, but with this
going so far as to say that frontman record we didn't have to do that so
Jeff Tweedy sits among the ranks of much."
Bob Dylan and Neil Young. Tonight, The band is known for alter-
the celebrated outfit returns to Hill ing its set lists from night to night,
Auditorium. drawing from a wealth of material
John Stirratt, the disarmingly over the course of its 15-year career.
approachable bassist and backup Last year, Wilco recalled its entire
vocalist in the now six-man group, catalog over the course of a five-
has been with the band since it night residency at Chicago's Rivi-
started in 1994, surviving numer- era Theatre, and has been playing
ous lineup changes and shifts in the newly rehearsed deep cuts ever
the band's sound. Stirratt spoke since.
with the Daily via telephone from "It was funny how much muscle
Toronto, where the band is playing memory plays into the whole thing,"
two nights at the legendary Massey Stirratt said of the older songs. "I
Hall. was so impressed with how easily
"It's funny. Certain places (like everyone who hadn't been around
Massey) just kind of command during those years was able to pick-
respect," Stirratt said. "You go for up the tunes. (This lineup) really
soundcheck and you find yourself claimed a proprietorship of the old
kind of staring around a little bit ... material ... and it made me proud
there's appreciation for a venue like
this and people feel it."
The band has been playinglarger Chatting about
auditoriums for the majority of the
decade, selling out nearly every dad rock.
venueit has visited since 2005. The
release of this summer's Wilco (The
Album) saw the band's highest first of the band in every incarnation,
week sales to date, which is the you know, how much I admired Jay
fruit of years of touring and foster- Bennett's input to the band, and
ingone of the most loyal fanbases in admired even A.M."
music. When mentioning the "dad rock"
"It's encouraging given our his- label that has been mentioned
tory with labels" Stirratt said. "On with regards to the band's recent
the other hand, when you're follow- albums, Stirratt doesn't seem too
ing a bus in Chicago with the Wilco concerned.
album on the front of it, sort of star- "If it means sort oflazy, mid-tem-
ingyou in the face, it's strangely off- po rock, I don't really buy it at all ...
putting." We are 40-year-old guys, you know,
"I think some of it could be and 40-year-old guys tend to have
explained by the blogosphere, with children eventually. There was this
opinions and everythingbeingmore period where we really started to
at arm's length," Stirratt explained see a lot of kids at our shows ... and
when asked about their more recent I love that feeling that you're play-
chart success. "Datingback to (Yan- ing to people in your age group ... it
kee Hotel Foxtrot), our fans have seems natural to playto people your
always been sort of at the vanguard own age, and a lot of people our age
of the message board thing ... it's have kids. But I don't buy the lazy
always been a pretty positive com- connotation."
munity around the band." Despite ties to older crowds,
Wilco (The Album) put the band Stirratt still feels a connection
in a slightly less heavy-handed light with younger audiences, evident by
- refreshing, given its turbulent buzz-worthy openers like Grizzly
history. Bear and Fleet Foxes joining them
"Especially after A Ghost Is on recent tours.
Born and Sky Blue Sky I remember "We're in college towns a lot,
lamenting the fact that we couldn't and we all listen to a lot of music...
express a sense of humor a little I think we're a young 40," Stirratt
bit better," Stirratt continued. "I adds, joking on the band's youth-
mean, Jeff has had it forever, but I fulness. "All we do is kind of prowl
think the heavier tone has always record stores and coffee shops in
outweighed the humor. And (with) college towns, and I don't feel dis-
this record we were definitely connected fromthe culture at all...
enjoying ourselves quite a bit, and it keeps you young."
now was the time to express that. Wilco will be finishing its North
I think the cover was a good way American tour with a show in Ann

to do it." Arbor and two in Chicago. The
Enlistingthe talents of renowned band will be playing to a sold out
photographer Autumn deWilde,the Hill Auditorium tonight, with Liam
band opted for a lighter approach to Finn opening.
LIKE MUSEUMS?
Join our Fine Arts staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an application

"'I'Alv'shows no signs of life

ByANT MITCHELL
For theDaily
For a show about near-death
experiences where every moment
should hold a
tension-filled *
reminder of
mortality; "I'm I'mAlive
Alive"isbizarre-
ly dull. No other Sundays at
network on 9p.m.
earth could turn Animal Planet
the screams of a
fatal spider bite victim into sleep-
inducing lullabies as effectively
as Animal Planet.
"I'm Alive" focuses on indi-
viduals who have had extreme,
dangerous and life-threatening
experiences with creatures like
black widows, charging elephants
and sharks. The survivors give
interviews along with family or
friends who were present at the
attack.
Scattered through these inter-
views,whichareusuallyjuststate-
ments of how painful, scary and
worrying the whole affair was,
are dreadfully shot reenactments
using doubles so unrecognizable
to their real-life counterparts that
even if they were wearing match-
ing shirts, it would still be diffi-
cult to tell who is supposed to be
whom. Nametags would remedy

the wh
couldn
the qua
A go
acted
differe
strang
room v
pieces
Someti
viewee
of thei
camera
else's f
tell wh
"I'm
of the

ole problem, and in truth, on screen for what seems like
't possibly take away from five minutes. No one reads that
ality of the show. slowly. Clearly these are devices
od portion of these reen- used to soak up a little bit of the
scenes are close-ups of show's extra time and remove
nt actors' eyes as well as any chance of the show building
e shaking shots of bath- suspense.
walls, elbows and up-close The ending is perhaps the
of individual's faces. worst portion of "I'm Alive."
imes close-ups of inter- Shots of a hand brushing through
's eyes jump to close-ups grass (please don't be confused,
r double's eyes before the this is not a review of "Gladia-
a moves on to someone tor") as the victim nears death
forehead (it is difficult to are followed soon after by scenes
ose). of the victim's life afterward
Alive" has a definite case (presumably to show how much
wandering cameraman. he had to live for). Home videos
of him playing the trumpet in a
high school band room and dye-
ing eggs for Easter are moments
near-death of his life no one cares to see. If
he's not at least struggling for life,
XperienCes there is absolutely no incentive to
watch the show.
have never All in all, the show simply lacks
any sort of flow. Each sentence
een so dull. spoken is interrupted at least
three or four times by fact cards,
reenactments and even sound
effects. Television is naturally
en the bad acting of the always broken up by commercial
y doubles and the ter- breaks, which means the TV pro-
nematography of both cut ducers' main challenge is helping
and interviews, it's excep- viewers forget that the commer-
y tricky to tell what's going cials ever interrupted. Instead,
ded to this whole mess are "I'm Alive" breaks up the show
e fact cards that linger to the extent that viewers feel the

need for a recap after returning
from commercials.
Ultimately,"I'mAlive"is dread-
fully dull and poorly executed,
capturing little if any of viewers'
attention, and it offers none of the
potential excitement an elephant
attack should provide.

ii - I

RELATE

r
e
b

Mastering Meditation
Free Introductory Series
Topics include:
Concentration and meditation techniques
Creating a meditative lifestyle
Exploring the inner journey
Mondays, Oct. 19, 26, Nov. 2, 9
7:00-8:30 pm
114 S. Main Street - Ann Arbor
Community Room - 2nd Floor
Crazy Wisdom Bookstore & Tea Room
For information, please call
734-994-7114

Betwer
myster
rible ci
scenes
tionall
on. Adc
strange


6A- Friday, October 16, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

forsale
020
OHIO STATE TICKET, ONLY $20,
TRYING TO MOVE THIS FAST
ASK FOR K, 810-923-8283
RECORDS FOR SALE. 33 1/3, 78.
$1 each.810-635-2232.
park ing
025
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmnsprop.om
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
060
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, fmished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in.great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4eeventofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HorvathProperties.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylatig/a mic.ed,
www.nancylat.com
!!!! 4 LG. Bdrm. house. 5 person.
Mary Ct. at IM bldg. Ldry., prkg. May-
May $2210. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Washer and dryer.
$1800 a mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
1 & 2 Bdrm, furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage.
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.

7 7Univerq ty
Plan Ahead! 6
Reserve your housing with
University Towers!
Rising above U-M Central Campus,
UniversityT owers offers fully
furnished rooms, studios,
1, 2 & 3 bedroom units.
Included in the rent is heat, water &
amazing high-rise style amenities.
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
AVAILABLE NOW 1 or 2 bdrm on
S. Forest near South U. 734-996-2836
Management
625 church St.
(734) 668-n 100
Now taking reservations
for fall 2010
Studios, 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 bdrms & Houses
See orZ3Yotonom o1 w~alnw m .eam
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation, www.archrealtyco.co
2010 HOUSES AND aparments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated.tPlease check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apIs. and smaller available toolAll are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.

fTe1iiioan Dailm
P RE SE N TS T H E
Online Classified
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to s00 all of tho
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, al on
o convonient mop!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
groat proportion.
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utt.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE FALL2010 -
1225 White-h bdrm.
341 F. Jefferson-8 bdrm.
www.keysoanagement.net
AVAILABLE MAY- 6 Bdrm house, 2
bdrm apt. on central campus. Avail.
now 5 bdrm Apt. Call 734-665-2723,
visit www.shahproperties.comt
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
.ACROSS 65 Home of the 33 Aquarium fish 46 Lincoln's
1 Seawater witch buried with an iridescent Confederate
component, to a under a fallen stripe counterpart.
chemist house 34 Rene of "Ransom" 47 Separately
5 Egypt's Mubarak 35 Burning desire? 48 Court case
10 Adriatic Sea DOWN 37 Stick in a parlor 50 Grenoble's river
country: Abbr. 1 Chill in the air 38 Airing in prime 51 Boot camp
13 "In other words..." 2 Latin 101 verb time, say negative
15 Decide to 3 Texting device 39 Hardly a speed 53 Debt-laden corp.
participate 4 View trom demon takeovers
10 "Youstinkr " Cleveland 43 Tot's beach toy 56 Suffix with Capri
dunce 0 "The Barber at 44 Bad picnic omen 58 Mariner's "Help!"
18 Seat for eating Seville," e.g. 45 Hotelier Helmsley 58 Pun. neighbor
scaloppine? 7 Represents ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Speaker's stand 8 Zilch S
22 BlueCrss 9Peruvian fH1HOR DISNEY
competitor ancestor NOW R OP E O N WA RD
23 Tool for a dueling 10 Taperoff A o L U S E D S C O U R S
snake? 11Tender beeflcuts C RE S C E N T R O L L
26 Home ofathe 12 Sacha Baron K A T I E MAY E G O
witch who Cohen title
melted character S Y S T P11 P E D R E A M S
27 Earth tones 14 Mother-of-pearl S H A N E R E N T A L
28 Newspaperad 198A bed EdLa M AND CAP E C O
meas 21Atlanta-based saR OA STS TAM L
30 Saintedlfifth- 23 Saab competitor M 0 N K E Y E A R IS W A R
century pope 24 Trap during a
31 Playfully winter storm, A N D Y U R N AE R IE
33 Org. once maybe A L L E N G I NSI E R G
headedby 25 Prefixwith M A R I O N E V E N A G
Heston distant I S I N T O T A M E CCI
36 What Tarzan 29 22-Acr. business T E N E T S S L O T H E E
became ufter 31 Deep-rooted
years nf 32 Miami-tn-N.Y. dir. xwordeditor@aol.com 10115/09
swinging? 1 2 a a 4 7 a a 10 11 12
40 Half and half
41 Madison's neat 13 14 15 16
raomie
42 Boam-line 171 1 19
negative an 41 24
43 Sykora of the
44 'TheTempest"
46 Facts and figures
49 Egotistical 2 31 32 us s 4
describer of laws
oflmotion? 42 53 42 63
52 Month fr fools? 40 41 42
54 Uranium-238,
e.g. 43 44 45
55 Paleontologist's
ski resnat a 40 42 46 50 51
discoveries?
57 "Au c ntrire " 2 5a 54
'60 Nest egg item,
briefly ' 5 66 67 66 59
61 Cheriof"SNL" 60 61 2
62 Firestnne ~ a
Country Club 63 64 65
city
63 Arch site: Abbr. Nr
64 Passover meul (1)2094TriuneMdi evieun.016r

15 DIFFERENT
LOCATIONS !
CHOOSE FROM EFFICIEN-
CIES, It,2, AND 3 BED-
ROOMS, 81-LEVELSAND
TRI-LV Ls Ta!a
Cal today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-76'1-8a0
www.primesh.com
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,W/D in unit,
$950/mo., all appliances, water in-
cluded. Call 734-395-5288.
Ptkiani@gmail.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furmished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshtr/A/C.
$4095, pius alit. 734-996-8506.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at Ill S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg/no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng lllcomcast.net
Make sue
so
students fo hnigaothuigery
sdesinto the
"right cib
ealtyOt.22
Page
PeAnAborOrdinance.doen'tstp
studetasfromthiedkingabihousigear
sonhyushould you? Advertise laes for
nowMay andFaluojo! Reachuover 4,000
studen~ts and otherrUniveriiy memb~ers.
Presentedhby The.SMichigav Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
dailyclassified@gmaii.com
(734) 764-0557

R E A LT Y
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immediate Occupancy Aalable
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
next , zz #o s
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
wWW.archrealtyco.Com
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartmen
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BsA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street froma U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealyco.com
Studio & 2
Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
CAST& eur HPg reock rom amp-us
734-663-530
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdro. aps. avail, at the corner of Hilt
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW IS THE time to reserve your
Apartment for 2010/2011. Stop by Uni-
versity Towers to secure your apart-
ment TODAY! 734-761-2680.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
ON ARBORETUM NEAR midtown.
Historic Frank Lloyd Wright-type, se:
4 bdrms, 2.5 baths, 734-662-7924.
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
the daily classifieds...
they're kind of a big deal.
RESERVE YOUR APARTMENT to-
day with University Towers. 2 Bed-
rooms starting at only $1259.00 and I
Bedrooms at $553.00. 734-761-2680.
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL

Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550;I heat,
Water, & Electric , Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrrn., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.
{

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Eurs $500-$3000hin 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentmeou gobluehouses.com. Taking
orders now for Penn State weekend.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.

help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sates/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part lime, wilt
trai 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/FHr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs..- Students, apply @
winvta a -- imrhprin ^^^ A0

0

BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE tojoin. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
tiCket s & travel
1 00
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

For Saturday, Oct. 17, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
This is the time of the New Moon,
which means it's the perfect time to
make resolutions about how to improve
your partnerships and closest friend-
ships. Got any ideas?
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
The New Moon taking place is an
opportunity to think about how you can
improve your job. Can you do better?
What about a different attitude toward
yamr mark?
GEMINI
(May 21 to0June 20)
Do you have a good balance between
playtime and the amount of time that you
work? Too much of either is not ideal.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
What can you do to improve your
enjoyment of your home,aswell as your
enjoyment of family relationships? Just
think of three things.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Today and tomorrow are great days to
think about your style of communicating
to others. How clear are your communi-
cations?
VIRGO
(Aug. 23to Sept. 22)
What can you do to improve your rela-
tionship with your possessions? Or what
can you do to boost your earnings?
These are good questions to ponder
today.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Today and tomorrow are the time of
the New Moon, which is taking place 'm
your sign! This is the best time all year
for you to think about how to improve
your image. (You never get a second

chance to make a first impression.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
This is an excellent day to think about
your inner world and your belief system.
We all believe in something. What really
matters to you?
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Are you happy with the friendships
you have? Your friends influence you
more than you know, because they influ-
ence your choices. Think about this.
CAPRICORN
(Pee. 2210o Jan. 19)
Are you headed in the general life
direction that you want to go? Do you
ever think about this? This particular
New Moon is the perfect time to do so.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
What further education or experiences
in life can help you in yourjob or enrich
your world? What can you do to expand
your horizons?
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Are you happy with how things are
shared with others? Is it easy or difficult
to live with the values of others? Today's
New Moan is the perfect time to think
about this.
YOU BORN TODAY You live life
with daring and courage. Some of you
show this quite obviously; some of you
hide it; but all of you have these quali-
ties. You're persevering, even in the face
of obstacles. You love drama, excitement
and schmoozing with others; however,
you also need your time alone. Your
focus has been on partnerships this year.
Next year holds an important choice!
Birthdate of Ern Karpluk, actress;
Arthur Miller, playwright; Wyclef Jean,
musician.

0

0

O 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


Deadline for lineads is 11:30am one businessday prior to publication
Rates: $420 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person witha
valid student ID (non-organizationa non-business adsonly)
" Ail ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 16, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October16, 2009 - 7A

Down economy
could improve
people's health,
study reports

Baucus: Democrats will
vote for health reform plan

During the Great
Depression, life
0 expectancy jumped
from 57 to 63 years
By OLIVIA CARRINO
Daily StaffReporter
A new University study shows
that although the current eco-
nomic downturn may be hurting
your income, it may also be help-
ing your health.
According to a University study
published in the current issue of
the Proceedings of the National
Academy ofScience, life expectan-
cy increased by six or seven years
duringtheGreatDepression,while
deaths from disease, accidents and
infant mortality decreased.
Researchers JosTapiaGrana-
dos and Ana Diez Roux from the
University's Institute for Social
Research used historical life
expectancy and mortality data to
analyze the relationship between
economic growth and population
health from 1920 to 1940.
They found that the life expec-
tancy of men and women, both
white and non-white, increased
from 57 to 63 years between 1929
and 1932.
Mortality tended to peak dur-
ing times of strong economic
expansion, but declined dur-
ing times of economic recession
when there were even gains in
life expectancy.
Of course, suicide mortal-
ity, which increased during the
Great Depression, was the only
exception.
Tapia Granados said he believes
that general health tends to evolve
more during periods in which the
economy is weakened, while peri-
,ds of economic expansion are not
good for population health.
'I think that the study quite
clearly shows that the ideas that
economic recession are bad for
society in all aspects are quite
wrong," he said. "In this case it is
quite clear that the Great Depres-
NOTEBOOK
From Page lA
H1NI ON CAMPUS
Also during the meeting yes-
terday, the regents received an
update on the state of the HINI flu
at the University.
According to a presentation
by Dr. Robert Ernst, the medi-
cal director of University Health
Service clinic operations, told the
regents that the extensive coordi-
nation between University Health
Service, the University's Health
System, the office of the Provost
and the Division ofStudent Affairs
are key to controlling a possible
outbreak on campus.
Ernst said currently the Uni-
versity Hospital sees between five
and 10 patients with HIN1 each
day, down from early September
when as many as 50 cases were
visiting the hospital each day.
Ernst explained that while the
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention have classified most
states as having a widespread out-
break of H1N1, Michigan is one of
only a few states not to have been
classified in that category.

While Ernst explained this,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman - a biochemist who has
served onthe board of the Institute
of Medicine - said, "It's just a mat-
ter of time," referring to the fact
that most believe every state will
be classified as having widespread
cases of HINT in the near future.
On a positive note, Ernst said
the University of Michigan Health
System received its first shipment
of HiN1 vaccinations this week
and that it would begin giving
them to staff next week.
Because ofthe limited availabil-
ity of vaccinations, health workers
and people at high risk will receive
vaccinations first, Ernst said.
In an interview after the meet-
ing, Coleman said she was con-

sion, in the aspect of population
health, was not at all harmful."
During the economic expan-
sion period known as the Roar-
ing Twenties, population health
stagnated and there was no prog-
ress in U.S. health as a whole,
Tapia Granados said. However,
during the economic recession of
the 1930s, the general trend was
an increase in longevity.
Although the study did notana-
lyze potential causes for the pat-
tern, including possible advances
in technology and health care, the
researchers offer some explana-
tions about the trend.
Among other theories, during
recessions, there is less work to
do, more time to sleep and less
money is spent on alcohol and
tobacco because people do not
have the means.
Tapia Granados included that
a wrong interpretation of this
study is thatbeing unemployed is
good for one's health.
"The paper is looking at the
whole population and cannot
differentiate what was happen-
ing to people who had jobs and
those who did not have jobs,"
he explained. "To be jobless, to
be unemployed, is not good for
health. Even though in periods of
recession more people are unem-
ployed, at the population level,
at the general level, the health of
the people tend to improve."
Tapia Granados said the
study's findings may also be
applicable to the current eco-
nomic downturn.
"Is this relevant for present
conditions? Well I think so," he
said.
"Not because you can extrapo-
late what happened 70 years ago
or 80 years ago to the present, but
because there have been other
studies in which effects of reces-
sions and expansions of health
have been looked at," he contin-
ued. "They have been looked at in
quite more recent periods, in the
1980s and 1990s, and the results
of these studies are quite con-
sistent with results for the Great
Depression."
fident about the plan's ability to
deal with HN at the University.
"I feel really good about our
preparation," Coleman said. "Who
knows, we might get a big wave,
but I think we're prepared for it."
REGENTS APPROVE
HONORARY DEGREES
By a unanimous vote, the
University's Board of Regents
approved four honorary degrees
to be awarded at winter com-
mencement during its monthly
meeting yesterday.
Jeff Daniels, a well-known
actor, songwriter and playwright,
will deliver the keynote address
at winter commencement. During
the ceremony, University officials
will honor him with an honorary
Doctor of Fine Arts.
Though not speaking at com-
mencement, long-time White
House Correspondent Helen
Thomas will also attend win-
ter commencement and will be
awarded an honorary Doctor of
Humane Letters.
Grace Lee Boggs, an advocate
for civil rights, labor issues and
justice, will also accept an hon-
orary Doctor of Humane Letters
while in attendance at the winter

commencement ceremonies.
Edward Wilson, who spoke at
the opening of the University's
Life Science Institute in 2004,
will return to campus for winter
commencement. While in atten-
dance, Wilson - a widely-known
entomologist - will be awarded
an honorary Doctor of Science
degree.
None of the four individuals are
alumni of the University, but Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man said they were selected to
receive honorary degrees because
of their ties to Michigan and lead-
ership in their fields.
- Daily News Editor Jillian
Bermar contributed to this report.

Senate Finance chair
said lawmakers have
a moral obligation to
reach an agreement
WASHINGTON (AP) - When it
comes time to vote, every Demo-
crat in the Senate - and perhaps
more than one Republican - will
support legislation overhauling
the nation's health care system, the
chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee predicted Thursday.
That assertion by Sen. Max Bau-
cus,D-Mont.,was anotable show of
confidence coming in the midst of
negotiations with Majority Leader
Harry Reid and White House offi-
cials to finalize legislation that can
satisfy liberal Democrats without
alienating moderates - and get
the 60 votes needed to advance in
the 100-seat Senate.
Baucus told reporters that law-
makers have a moral obligation to

repair the health care system to
rein in costs and extend coverage
to millions of the uninsured.
"And that is why we are goingto
pass health care reform legislation
this year, and it is why every Dem-
ocrat will vote for it, and it is why
there will be at least one Republi-
can and maybe a couple more who
also will vote for it," Baucus said.
"Every Democrat will vote for
national health care reform," Bau-
cus emphasized.
Democrats control 60 Senate
votes, but that includes two inde-
pendents, and leaders have been
uncertain of support from a num-
ber of moderates who've expressed
concerns about the price tag of
health care legislation and the gov-
ernment's role in a remade system.
Baucus' prediction followed
approval by his committee ear-
lier this week of a tO-year, $829
billion bill that makes numerous
changes to the health care system
alongthe lines sought by President
Barack Obama, but taking a more

centrist approach than the other
four health care bills approved by
House and Senate committees.
Baucus and Reid met Thursday
with White House Chief of Staff
Rahm Emanuel and other officials
wrestlingto merge the Finance bill
with a more liberal version passed
by the Senate Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions Committee.
Reid later held out hope of get-
ting support from more Repub-
licans than just Sen. Olympia
Snowe, R-Maine, who was the
lone GOP "yes" vote in the Finance
Committee.
Unanswered is whether Reid
will include provisions in the bill
to allow the government to sell
insurance in competition with
private industry. That so-called
public plan is supported by liber-
als, who spoke up in favor of it at
a closed-door Senate Democratic
caucus meeting Thursday.
But because of opposition from
moderate Senate Democrats, any
public plan Reid does include

likely would be some type of com-
promise, such as leaving the deci-
sion on a public plan to states or
offering public coverage only as a
backstop in areas where one insur-
er has a lock on the market - the
approach favored by Snowe.
Reid said, "We're going to work
very hard ... to see what, if any-
thing, we're going to do" on a gov-
ernment plan.
"I favor a public option. Every-
one knows that," Reid added.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., mounted a strong defense
of a public plan at a news confer-
ence, contending that recent
attacks from the health insurance
industry should dispel any doubts
about the need for it.
"Our House bill will have a pub-
lic option," Pelosi declared.
She referred to an industry-
funded study that said insurance
premiums would rise under the
Senate Finance bill, and also ref-
erenced an insurance industry ad
campaign targeted at seniors.


PEDICABS
From Page1A
tion in New York City that limited
the number of pedicabs allowed on
the streets, Schemanski and Lycka
said they were able to purchase two
cabs at a cheap price. Schemanski
said this made the opportunity too
good to pass up.
They started the business last
summer in their hometown of Peto-
skey, Mich., giving tours of the city
during the afternoons and running
as a regular taxi service for the local
bars during the night.
In the fall, Schemanski brought
the business to Ann Arbor, where
the pedicabs were first used during
welcome week.
"At first there were a lot of double
takes," he said. "We started talking
to people about it and alot of people
didn't know what it was. But once
one person rode it, and people saw
it, they joined in too."
For rides under 10 minutes, the
drivers only ask for a tip. But if
the ride is longer than 10 minutes,
they'll give you a quote, typically $3
to $5 per person, per mile.
"Some people questionthe decision
to go by tips," Schemanski said. "But
it has proven itself to work very well.
I would say that I get overpaid much
more frequently than underpaid."
Music School senior Fritz McGirr,
who sometimes drives the pedicabs,
was even tipped with a burrito once
after he transported the co-owner
of Burrito Jointtowork.
"It made my day," he said.
The pedicabs run from 10 p.m. to
3 a.m., Friday through Sunday, and
Schemanski said it is rare for a driver

Calvin Schemanski poses for a photo with the pedicabs he recently purchased to start his transportation business.

to go 10 minutes without giving a ride.
"Most people walk because call-
ing a (regular) taxi for a 10- or
15-minute walk seems silly;" he said:
"But when a guy with a bike andcar-
riage rolls by asking only for a tip to
ride you to your destination, many
people recognize the value and take
advantage of our service."
Engineering freshman Joe Beck,
who is a regular pedicab customer,
said the quality of the service is one
reason he continues to come back.
"Calvin told me he'd take me
down the street for a dollar," Beck
said. "After that, I kept seeing him
and Ikept gettingrides."
Beck is just one of the many regu-
lar customers the new service has
drawn, but once winter comes, they

might have to resort to regular taxis
to transport them around town.
"We pride ourselves on doing our
best to provide an enjoyable ride,"
Schemanski said. "When the tem-
perature is so cold it is hard to offer
that quality experience."
Petoskey Pedicab, LLC will close
for the winter but not permanently.
Depending on the weather, the com-
pany might open occasionally.
Schemanski said the two plan
to return to Petoskey next summer
where they will continue to offer
tours. And, because of their success
in Ann Arbor, they plan to come
back again next fall.
"This was our experimental year.
It didn't costus much.We found alot
of demand for it," Schemanski said.

"We didn't have any problems with
the government or police so we're
buying another pedicab or two and
continuing it next year."
Despite the positive feedback for
the new company;there are some in
Ann Arbor who aren't as excited.
Kevin Tulppo, a dispatcher for
Amazing Blue Taxi, LLC, voiced his
skepticism of the new business.
Tulppo said it was taking away
some of his business, but he didn't
see how the company could last in
the winter months.
"It's a nice novelty, but I don't see
howpeoplecanmakealivingoffofit,"
Tulpposaid. "Theonlytime(pedicabs
can) make moneyisthe first couple of
months of autumn and then the few
weeksbefore graduation."


ENDOWMENT
From Page 1A
investment results underscore the
importance of having a spending
rule that smoothes out the impact
of the volatility in financial markets
and provides a steady and grow-
ing level of distributions from the
endowment to support University
operations."
The University calculates the
overall value of the endowment
by averaging the quarterly market
value of the endowment over a sev-
en-year timeframe. The seven-year
average is by far one of the most
CONVENTION
From Page 1A
ment more relevant to students by
inviting them to take part in the
revision process. Students can apply
to be a part of the convention on
MSA's website starting early next
week. From those applications,
MSA President Abhishek Mahanti,
will select about 40 delegates to
serve at the convention.
MSA representatives will hold
about a quarter of the spots at the
convention.
Mahanti said revising the stu-
dent constitution has the potential
to improve the way students inter-
act with each other and with their
student government.
"The all-campus constitution
governs the way that all the student
entities on campus work, whether
it's student government or student
organizations," Mahanti said. "By
re-writing that, we can get student
orgs to work together in a new, pos-
itive way."
Michael Rorro, MSA vice presi-
dent, will chair the constitutional
convention. He said it will re-exam-
ine how MSA serves student groups
on campus.
"The entire structure of how we

conservative approaches among
universities, since most schools use
three- or five-year averaging sys-
tems.
In an interview after the meet-
ing, University President Mary Sue
Coleman said she's proud of the
University's long-term investment
strategy.
"They arelong-term thinkers and
that has served us extraordinarily
well," Coleman said of Lundberg
and the Investment Office. "None
of us know what the markets are
going to do, but I have great faith in
(Lundberg's) team."
Despite her confidence, Coleman
said additional cuts to University
function is really coming into light
and coming into question," Rorro
said.
After the convention comes up
with a revised document, they will
vote to put the document on the bal-
lot and then the student body will
vote on it during the March MSA
elections, Mahanti said.
Three fifths of the voting student
body needs to approve the docu-
ment for it to be enacted.
Rorro said he hopes the con-
vention will be able to approve the
document by the end of January to
allow for two months of promotion
on campus before the vote.
In the process of rallying appli-
cants, the leaders of this convention
have the added burden of proving
the relevance of the constitution to
the studentbody.
Rorro said the topics that are
most important to students are
funding for student groups, the
Central Student Judiciary and the
power that MSA has to amend the
Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities.
"Every single funding source
from student fees for student orgs is
governed by this document," Rorro
said.
The students on the convention
will have the power to change how

spending would be needed to offset
expected cuts in state funding.
"We'll be tightening our belts,"
she said. "We've already said we've
got to cut this year, but our goal is
to protect the experience students
have and always make that better."
Regent Denise Ilitch (D-Bing-
ham Farms) said in an interview
after the meeting that she recog-
nizes the University will likely face
hardships in the coming years.
"I think it's too early to tell but
I am concerned that we're going to
have a difficult year next year over-
all," Ilitch said. "I think we will
be impacted - to what degree, it's
hard to say."
money is distributed and even what
percentage of the MSA's income will
be given to student groups.
In addition to amending the
funding structure, delegates to
the convention can also amend the
organization of the student judicial
court. CSJ has the power to solve
disputes between student organi-
zations, within student organiza-
tions and students can file a CSJ
suit against MSA.
In the current constitution, there
are no specifics as to who can serve
as a justice on CSJ, which allows for
the possibility of corruption. While
this hasn't come up yet, the current
constitution, for example, does not
prevent the MSA president from sit-
ting as a justice.
"I mean there's not that many
cases through CSJ, but if we clean
up the process and let people know
about it, there might be a couple
hundred CSJ cases a year," Rorro
said. "Which means that MSA is
putting people on this body and
that's actually a really important
thing."
The constitution also gives MSA
the power to amend the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities,
which students agree to when they
apply to the University, Rorro said.
MSA - along with executive offi-
I

However, Ilitch said she is proud
that the University has been able
to outperform many other institu-
tions.
"I'm pleased with the perfor-
mance," Ilitch said. "I think we've
done much better than some of our
peers."
Despite the hit to the Universi-
ty's financial backbone, University
officials expect the overall invest-
ment payout to increase in the com-
ing year, because of the University's
seven-year rolling average method
of calculation.
- Managing News Editor Jacob
Smilovitz contributed to this report.
cers of the University, and Senate
Advisory Committee on University
Affairs, the leading faculty govern-
ing body - has the power to amend
the statement.
This year, MSA will consider pro-
posing seven amendments to the
Statement. There have been no pro-
posals from University executives
or SACUA, Rorro said.
By taking the power out of the
hands of the assembly, Rorro hopes
that the politics involved in MSA
that have made large-scale change
difficult in the past will not get in
the way at the convention.
Rorro cited last year's effort to get
rid of political parties, which failed
because MSA representatives were
each sponsored by a party.
Along with the major changes
that this convention could make
to the constitution, Rorro said that
this process has the potential to
unite student organizations.
"This could, as aside effect, could
really bring campus together,"
Rorro said.
He added that the creation of the
convention shows MSA's commit-
ment to change.
"We languished control of our
organization," Rorro said. "This
assembly had ahuge amount of faith
with the student body."

BECOME A FAN OF THE
DAILY ON FACEBOOK
And get instant updates on our top stories.


8A - Friday, October 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'M' treats No. 1
Penn State like
any other team

Sophomore Kim Siebert played a big role in Michigan's stalwart man-to-man defense against the high-octane Boilermaker offense.
Wolverines extend 12-day scoreless
drought, fall to tough Purdue squad

By MARK BURNS
DailySports Writer
Take a 20-piece puzzle. Now try
and take one of those pieces and
put it into the correct position -
but then you find out that for some
reason, the piece doesn't fit.
The Michigan volleyball team
faces No. 1 Penn State - that awk-
ward piece that just won't fit -
tonight inside an already sold-out
Cliff Keen Arena. The Wolverines
(4-2 Big Ten, 16-3 overall) haven't
defeated the Nittany Lions since
Nov. 2, 2002.
Since then, Penn State has won
two national championships, in
2007 and 2008.
But instead of looking at
tonight's match as an anomaly,
the Wolverines are looking at the
match as just another step in hope-
fully completing their quest for a
Big Ten Championship.
"It's important to know that
they're No. 1, but it's also impor-
tant to know that rankings don't
matter," senior libero Megan
Bower said.
Bower, along with the rest of the
team, isn't treating this game like
it's the end-all, be-all match of the
season. Sure, Michigan has a shot
to knock off the top-ranked team
in the country and end its seven-
year drought against the Nittany
Lions.
But last year, the Wolverines
lost convincingly in straight sets
to end the regular season.
"Sometimes when you're build-
ing cars or trying to win a volley-
ball match or studying for school,
if you think about the big picture,
it can almost become overwhelm-
ing," Michigan coach Mark Rosen
said. "If you think about the end
product, it doesn't get you any-

where. ... We really try to focus on
the process and get back to con-
centrating on the small picture
rather than the big picture.
"Because the season is so long
and because you have such high
goals and expectations, it's easy
to think about the picture and say,
'This win is so important.' And it
doesn't help you."
If the 11th-ranked Wolverines
want to disrupt Penn State's run
for a second straight undefeated
Big Ten season, Michiganwillneed
to stick to the basics. More specifi-
cally, the game will be fought with
the serve-and-pass battle.
Serving aggressively and pass-
ing with very few errors are two
trademarks of Rosen's system. If
the Wolverines win the serve-and-
pass battle, they can contend with
anyone in the Big Ten, according
to Rosen. After all, Michigan leads
the conference with 1.78 aces per
set.
Penn State, on the other hand,
leads in every other statistical
conference category - blocks,
kills, assists, hitting percentage
and opponent attack percentage.
The team is on the verge of being
labeled a legitimate collegiate
dynasty within the volleyball
community, and that has the Wol-
verines in a frenzy.
"(The team) is really excited
about the buzz surrounding this
match," Rosen said. "I'm sure in
the NBA, it's probably like when
Michael Jordan came to town
or when LeBron (James) does.
There's this buzz now that the
match is sold out. ...We've been
sold out for two days. The kids
have been getting phone calls like
crazy from friends asking if they
have any more tickets and if they
can get in."

el

By ZAK PYZIK open eight yards away from goal,
Daily Sports Writer netting in the only tally of the
game. Purdue defeated Michigan
It's been nearly 263 minutes 1-0 in West Lafayette.
since the Michigan women's soccer Though the Wolverines' defense
team has bested a goalie. No Wol- caused the Boilermakers fits, their
verine has netted a goal in 12 days. offense wasn't quite there.
Michigan has succumb, to a cold Against Purdue, Michigan
spell. pitched six shots during the game,
While it MICHIGAN 0 four of which were on goa# This
frustrated PURDUE 1 was an impressive change for a
Purdue all team that ranks last for shots taken
evening yesterday, the end result and shots on goal in the Big Ten, but
was another zero. the most important - goals scored
The 18th-ranked Boilermakers' - was still zero.
fast-paced offense took 15 shots, "I was happy with the offense,"
just four of which were on goal. The Michigan coach Greg Ryan said.
Wolverines' newly instituted man- "We created an incredibly good
to-man defense allowed no time chance in the first half At one point
for Purdue's ballhandlers to make their goalie was down, and the ball
decisions - until the 39th minute. was laying in front of the net and
That's when Boilermaker mid- the player just didn't stick it in."
fielder Jessica Warren stood wide- Though the offense created

chance
and th
great d
Purd
be
overall)
ing off
average
the you
them to
"Inst

s, it didn't produce a score, defense, (Coach Ryan) made spe-
at overshadowed another cific matchups," sophomore mid-
efensive performance. fielder Courtney Mercier said. "We
ue (3-1-2 Big Ten, 8-3-3 needed to individually defend, and
in every matchup, our player had
the upper hand."
Michigan (0-2-2 Big Ten, 5-7-2
'Today we overall) had just three defenders
on the back-line, and that allowed
played the them to have more players focus on
pushing the ball.
'tter soccer, The Wolverines statistically put
up better numbers than the Boil-
Ryan said. ermakers, averaging more shots on
g'oal and producing not even half of
the amount of penalties that Pur-
due did. Ultimately, they couldn't
is the fourth-highest scor- capitalize.
ense in the conference. It "Today we played the better soc-
s 1.92 goals per game, but cer," Ryan said. "If you put enough
tng Wolverine defense held balls in the penalty box, one is
just one notch. going to curve in. Ours didn't, and
tead of playing a more zone theirs did."

With his physical play at forward, Brown shores up
Michigan's second line alongside Hagelin and Rust

By RYAN KARTJE the season last Sunday, Brown
Daily Sports Writer was a big part of the Wolverines
victory and not only was his phys-
Many collegiate freshman for- icality on display, but so was his
wards start their career in hopes ability to put the puck in the back
of scoring as many goals as pos- of the net.
sible. After all, statistics are what Brown led Michigan in scor-
gets them noticed in the junior ing in his first weekend of hockey,
leagues. notching two goals and one assist
But that doesn't concern Michi- and certainly cementing his spot
gan freshman Chris Brown. on the team's powerful second
"My first shift, my first goal was line for the time being.
to get hit or make a hit," Brown Paired with junior forwards
said. "I love to play physical." Matt Rust and Carl Hagelin,
And the first Texas-born Mich- Michigan coach Red Berenson
igan hockey player's physical called attention to the talent of his
prowess has made an impression second line to score at will. But it's
on the players and coaches. Brown's physical presence that
"We haven't had someone to makes him an asset on the ice.
really chirp the other team as "Everyone can't be a power for-
much as he's been doing it this ward, but Chris has the size, the
season," junior forward Louie strength, the body and the mental
Caporusso said. "And I think that makeup," Berenson said. "He fits
kind of gets the other team off the bill really well. We have other
their game and in their head." guys that are going to play physi-
In the team's second game of cal, but that's one of his best attri-

butes that he brings to the table."
Brown isn't the tallest player
on the team at 6-foot-2, nor does
he have the bulkiest frame (194
pounds), but the Texan's intense
and hardnosed style of play makes
him one of the hardest hitters on
the ice for the Wolverines.
And to say he's made that kind
of impression in just a few weeks
of official practices with the team
is a testament to the young for-
ward's ability to affect a game.
"He's adding physicality,"
Berenson said. "Our whole team
has to play physical, but it's a lot
easier when you're a big, strong
kid (like Brown)."
With physical senior forward
Brian Lebler playing on the third
line, Brown is able to usehis physi-
cal skill set to allow for more scor-
ing opportunities for Carl Hagelin
and Matt Rust who combined for
a total of 53 points last season.
But don't countBrown out when

it comes to scoring goals. He'll be
the first to tell you that his shot is
one of the strengths of his game.
As a member of the U.S. Nation-
al Team Development Program
Under-18 Team last year, Brown
led the squad in goals (42) and
points (74). Those numbers were
enough to attract the Phoenix
Coyotes who selected him with
the 36th overall pick in last year's
NHL Entry Draft.
And with the lack of scoring
depth behind Caporusso on the
first line, Brown's offensive prow-
ess could be essential when the
team needs someone to put points
on the board.
"He can definitely be a first liner
and I think he will be," Caporusso
said. "We're only two games in
and it's hard to tell, but I expect,
from what I've seen, for him to be
a great power forward."
Added Berenson: "The scoring
adds the finishing touch."

0I

Senior Veronica Rood and the Wolverines try to snap a seven-year losing skid to
Penn State tonight.

01

01


0

0 . 00

0


with Hornets senior defensive back
Avery Grant
Name the one non-sports-related item
you can't live without:
Video Games.
What's your perfect pregame meal?
I love to eat a lot of pasta.
What would be your ideal superpower and why?
I would want to fly. The ability to fly would
give me a better chance to see the world.
 What's a hidden talent of yours?
I write poetry.
What's your most embarrassing
football moment?
I once blocked one of my own teammates
during a play.
What's your worst school
picture ever? Describe it.
My picture following kindergarten.
I had a snaggle tooth look.
* What's your biggest fear?
I fear the unknown.
Favorite sports rivalry?
Yankees vs. Red Sox.
If we came to campus, where
would we likely find you?
Hanging out with one of my teammates,
playing video games and chillin'.
Favorite class:
Public Speaking.
What's the best option: Playoffs or BCS?
Playoffs.
What's the best meal you can cook by yourself?
Fried chicken. My mother taught me.
Favorite pro sports team?
The New York Yankees.
If you had three words to describe
your coach, what would they be?
Disciplined, Strong, Real (100%).
If you could only watch one movie for
the rest of your life, what would it be?
Remember the Titans.

Football Saturday
10.17.09
MAKIING
the
The Daily football
writers break down
the good, bad and
ugly of the first half
of the '09 season.





0 0

0

REACHING THE 2009 MICHIGAN FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

October 17,2009 1- Football Sat rda

Wolverines should run away with a 'W' against DSU

HALFWAY.POINT
Does this stat scare you? Michigan is 0-1 all-time
against Football Championship Subdivision competi-
tion. The one they lost just so happened to be to one of
the best FCS schools ever -- Appalachian State - but
anyway, we're done rationalizing that one.
The lowly Delaware State Hornets, winners of just
one game this season, are going to bring their best
into the Big House Saturday, because, well, this is their
Super Bowl.
You don't schedule a nonconference game over an
already-scheduled conference opponent and come
600 miles to lay down and die. Trust us, win or lose,
the Hornets will fight tough.
Michael Eisenstein a Ruth Lincoln
Courtney Ratkowiak * Andy Reid
HIGHLIGHTS
Believe it or not, Michigan isn't the only team that
boasts maize-and-blue winged helmets that Delaware
State will play this year. Page three for details.
It's the midway point of the season (and midterm time
for Michigan students), so it's about time for The Daily
to grade the Wolverines' performance thus far.
it's best to know the enemy, right? Read about
members of the opposing team in our weekly Q&A
feature. Up this week is Hornet defensive back Avery
Grant.

Sept. 5 Western Michigan: Before this win, it had been a while since Michigan
fans had anything to cheer about during opening weekend.
Sept.12 Notre Dame: Hey, Chuck Weis, you already got schooled by one true freshman
quarterback this season. This week, you'll make it two after Matt Barkley throws all over the place.
Sept.19 Eastern Michigan: The Eagles put up a good fight in the first half, but Michigan
once agais proved there's only room for one college football team in Washtenaw County.

5

Sept.26 Indiana: Wait, what? Indiana still has a football team? We'll believe it when we
see it. Still haven't, even though it gave Michigan a scare for a few minutes there.
Oct. 3 at Michigan State: So the Spartans beat Michigan for the second year ina row.
Whatever. Keep Paul Bunyan. That thing is butt-ugly anyway. .

From page 6B
MICHIGAN PASSING OFFENSE
- VS. DELAWARE STATE
PASSING DEFENSE
Beyond battling a concussion,
Tate Forcier has a tender shoulder
and bruised confidence after last
Saturday's loss. Against the Hor-
nets, he should get some much-
needed rest.
Enter Denard Robinson.
Saturday could be Robinson's
chance to prove that he's actually
a quarterback and can, you know,
throw the ball. Robinson's game-
ending interception at Iowa last
week left a sour taste in everyone's
mouth, and the freshman quar-
terback would likely love nothing
more than to re-establish himself,
even if it is against a dismal FCS
passing defense that has given up
189.2 yards per game through the
air.
The Wolverine receivers, who
have left much to be desired the
past few weeks against physical
cornerbacks, should see this week-
end as a welcome relief. With two

players to watch ou
that's a stretch.
MICHIGAN RUS
VS. DELAWA
RUSHINGC
Playing a top-
Championship Sub
one thing. Playing
is another. The F
just 14 points a gam
to a dismal seven
Bethune-Cookman
hadn't won agame
it slipped past Del
weekend.
With Brandon
Martin and Craig F
Obi Ezeh and Jona
ing a game against
an FCS school to
fidence, Delaware
overmatched.
Remember whe
one rushing yard t
half last weekend?

it for -- and even MICHIGAN PASSING DEFENSE
VS. DELAWARE STATE
Edge: Michigan PASSING OFFENSE
If Delaware State was going to
HING DEFENSE take the edge in any category, it
ORE STATE would be this one.
OFFENSE The Wolverines are dead last in
-notch Football the Big Ten in pass defense, giving
division team is up more than 250 passing yards
a bad FCS team per game, but they have recently
'tornets average switched things up in the second-
ie and were held ary. After sophomore cornerback
points against Boubacar Cissoko was suspend-
- a team that ed for a violation of team rules
this season until and redshirt freshman J.T. Floyd
aware State last looked vulnerable, Troy Woolfolk
switched from safety to corner-
Graham, Mike back.
Roh up front and That may possibly shore up
as Mouton need- the defense for now, at least until
a teamlike, well, Michigan defensive coordinator
gain some con- Greg Robinson comes up with a
State is simply better solution. Even with all of
the Wolverines' faults, their tal-
n Iowa had only ent should be too much for the
hrough the first Hornets.

interceptions between them this lar performance.
season, defensive backs Greg Ligon
and Francis Adjei are likely the only

Edge: Michigan

SPECIAL TEAMS
Punter Zoltan Mesko had the
game of his life last week against
Iowa, averaging53.8 yards per punt
and launching a 61-yard boot.
There is some reason to fear the
Hornets -- Ligon might be riding a
hot streak after he blocked an extra
point against Bethune-Cookman
last week.
Edge: Michigan
INTANGIBLES
The Hornets regularly play in
front of about 7,000 people. Add
100,000 more, and it's safe to say
they will be a little overwhelmed.
Michigan is bigger, stronger, fast-
er, more tradition-rich, has more
scholarships and is undoubtedly
more physically fit than Delaware
State. And what small school play-
er isn't at least a little intimidated
when he sees those winged helmets
flying at him?
Edge: Michigan

LOOKING FOR
LIVE TWEETS
FROM THE
MICHIGAN/
DSU GAME?
FOLLOW
@MICHDAILYSPORTS

Oct.10 at Iowa: Kinnick Stadium would rank as one of the best in the Big Ten -if they didn't play
"Gotta Feeling" 3,000,000 times and their fans didn't storm the field against unranked teams.
Oct.17 Delaware State: As if Michigan students needed more motivation to skip this
game, the Athletic Department scheduled it during Fall Break.
I
Oct.24 Penn State: Little known fact: Joe Paterno is the only active college football coach
who participated in the Revolutionary War. Just kidding. He is really old, though.
Oct. 31 at Illinois: After a weak start, the Fighting llini are almost as irrelevant as Chief Illiniwek,
the school's mascot that was discontinued in 2007.
Nov. 7 Purdue: Think the Wolverines still have that hook-and-lateral on their minds? With the game
against Purdue one Michigan is expected to win, expect the Wolverines to come out swinging.
Nov.14 at Wisconsin: Hey, Bret Bielema. What are you going to do about that tigerhawk
tattoo on your calf this weekend while your team is playing the Hawkeyes?
Nov. 21 Ohio State: The sweater vest -perfect for when your torso is ice cold but your
arms still need to breathe. Seriously, Tressel, what is up with that wardrobe?


Look for a simi-

Score: M
Delav

Edge: Michigan

Michigan 52,
ware State 7
Guest
Picker:
Drum
Major
Andy David
Reid , Hines Jr.

.._--- ---- - ,,


Like our pictures of
Michigan football?
Get your own.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their
best to predict what happens
in the 2009 football season.
Michigan (NS) vs. Delaware State
No.1 Florida (-24) vs. Arkansas
No. 2 Alabama (-17) vs No. 22 S Carolina
No. 3 Texas (-3.5) vs. No. 20 Oklahoma
No. 4 VA Tech (-3) at No.19 GA Tech
No.6 So. Cal (-10) at No. 25 Notre Dame
No. 7 Ohio State (-14) at Purdue
No. 8 Cincinnati (-3) at No. 21 So. Florida
No. 9 Miami (FL) (-14.5) at UCF
No. 11 Iowa (+2.5) at Wisconsin
No.12 TCU (-22) vs. Colorado St.
No.14 Penn State (-16.5) vs. Minnesota
No.15 Nebraska (-10.5) vs. Texas Tech
No.16 Oklahoma State (-7) vs. Missouri
No.17 Kansas (-10) at Colorado
No.18BYU(-17) at San Diego State
No. 23 Houston (-17) at Tulane
No. 24 Utah (-16.5) at UNLV
Indiana(+2) vs. Illinois
Michigan State (-13.5) vs. Northwestern
Last Week
Overall

Michael
Eisensteir
Michigan
Arkansas
Alabama
Texas
Virginia Tech
Notre Dame
Ohio State
South Florida
Miami
Iowa
Colorado State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Oklahoma State
Kansas.
BYU
Houston
Utah
Indiana
Northwestern
11-11
73-58-1

T

Ruth
Wincolns
Michigan
Arkansas
Alabama
Texas
Virginia Tech
Southern Cal
Ohio State
South Florida
UNLV
Te xas Christian
Minnesota
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
Kansas
San Diego State
Houston
UNLV
Indiana
Northwestern
11-11
67-64-1


Courtney
Ratkowiak
Michigan
Arkansas
Alabama
Texas
Georgia Tech
Southern Cal
Ohio State
Cincinnati
Miami
Wisconsin
Colorado State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Oklahoma State
Kansas
San Diego State
Houston
Utah
Illinois
Northwestern
10-12
70-61 -1

> ;:
;

Michigan
Arkansas
Alabama
Texas
Virginia Tech
Southern Cal
Ohio State
Cincinnati
Miami
Iowa
Texas Christian
Penn State
Nebraska
Missouri
Kansas
BYU
Houston
Utah
Indiana
Michigan State
10-12
61-70-1


Michigan
Arkansas
Alabama
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Notre Dame
Ohio State
South Florida
Miami
Iowa
Colorado State
Minnesota
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
Kansas
BYU
Houston
Utah
Indiana
Northwestern
12-10
69-62-1

Commemorate the Wolverines' unforgettable
upset of Notre Dame by buying The
Michigan Daily's photos from the game.
Visit photo.michigandaily.com.

To apply tobe a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


w w w w w

W.

W.

w

w

W

October 2009 Football ",

MICHIGAN DEPTH CHART
VS.
DELAWARE STATE

OFFENSE

QB

1. Forcier, Tate Freshman, No. 5
2. Robinson, Denard Freshman, No. 16

RB 1. Minor, Brandon Senior, No. 4
2. Brown, Carlos Senior, No. 23
FB 1.Moundros, Mark RS junior, No. 44
FB 2. Grady, Kevin Fifth-year senior, No. 24
W R 1. Stonum, Darryl Sophomore, No.22
2. Mathews, Greg Senior, No. 13
W R 1. Hemingway, Junior RS sophomore, No. 21
2. Savoy, LaTerryal Fifth-year senor, No. 82
SLO T 2.Odoms, Martavious Sophomore No. 7
Grady, Kelvin RSsophomore, No.19

CHANELVONsHABSBUeG-LoOHRINGEsNal
Freshman Denard Robinson will likely get more playing time
Saturday, and his speed will prove to be too much for the Hornets,.
Breakdown:'
will outplay DSU in
every facet of game

DEFENSE
S 1. Graham, Brandon Senior, No. 55
2. Heininger, Will R Ssophomore, No. 39
T i 1. Van Bergen, Ryan RS sophomore, No. 53
2 Banks, GregJunior, No. 92
T i1Martin, Mike Sophomore, No. 68
2. Campbell, William Freshman, No. 73
1. Roh, Craig Freshman, No. 88
2. Herron, Brandon RS sophomore, No. 58
M LB i. Ezeh, Obi S onior,No. 45
!'ALB 2. Fitzgerald, JB. Sophomore, No. 42
1. Mouton, Jonas RS junior, No. 8
2.Leach, KevinRS sophomore, No. 52
S 1. Brown; Stevie Senior, No. 3
B 2. Simmons, Floyd RS freshman, No. 23
LC 1. Warren, Donovan Junior, No. 6
L'. 2. Turner, J.T. Freshman
S 1.Kovacs, Jordan RS freshman, No. 32
2. Van Slyke, Jared RS sophomore
F 1. Williams, Mike RS sophomore, No. 40
2. Emilien, Vladimir RS freshman, No. S
RC i 1. Woolfolk, Try Junior, No. 29
R 2. Floyd, J.T. RS freshman, No.12

The Michigan football team's winged helmets have been a staple since the team's 1938 opening game and are now the most iconic symbol of Wolverine tradition.

MAX COLLINS/Daily

Hornets to face winged helmets
for the second time this season

TE

1. Koger, Kevin Sophomore, No. 86
2. Webb, Martell Junior, No. 80

LT i.Ortmann, Mark Fifth-year senior, No. 71
2. Dorrestein, Perry RS junior, No. 79

By RUTH LINCOLN
and ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editors
It's fall break. It's starting to
get cold. Oh, and the Wolver-
ines are playing a school you
hadn't heard of until the Athletic
Department scheduled the game
in February.
We get it - you're not exactly
excited about Saturday.
But, let's be honest, Michigan
football is still Michigan football.
Whether the Wolverines are play-
ing Ohio State or Delaware State,
you should be pumped to see the
maize-and-blue-clad players run-
ning under the "Go Blue" banner
before the game.
Obviously, the Hornets are
pretty overmatched here, but that
willgivesomeyoungWolverines a
chance to get some much-needed
experience. Players like running
back Vincent Smith, defensive
lineman William Campbell and
quarterback Denard Robinson
should be getting a lot of playing
time this week.

MICHIGAN RUSHING
OFFENSE VS. DELAWARE STATE
RUSHING DEFENSE
Want a glimpse into the future
of Michigan tailbacks? Pay atten-
tion on Saturday. The Hornets
have surrendered 202.8 rushing
yards per game so far this season.
With senior tailback Carlos Brown
questionable for Saturday with a
concussion and Brandon Minor
constantly battling a nagging high
ankle sprain, consider this a bye
week for the senior stars.
Watch for sophomore Michael
Shaw and true freshman Vincent
Smithtocuttheirteethagainstthe
Hornets. Shaw has already shown
flashes of his speed this season,
tallying a five-yard touchdown
run against Eastern Michigan.
And the 5-foot-6 Smith is more
physical than his size would sug-
gest. Whenever the Wolverines
practice the extremely intense
"M" drill, Smith is always the one
to speedily break the tackles.
Edge: Michigan
See BREAKDOWN, Page 7B

LG
C

1. Schilling, Steve RS junior, No. 52
2. Mealer, Elliott RS freshman, No. 57
1. Moosman, David Fifth-year senior, No. 60
2. Khoury, Rocko RS freshman, No. 63

RG 1.Huyge, Mark RS sophomore, No. 72
2. Barnum, Ricky RS freshman, No. 56
RT 1.Dorrestein, Perry RS junior, No. 79
2. Omameh,Patrick Sophomore, No. 65

DSU lost to
Delaware 27-17
earlier this season
By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily SportsEditor
There was something different
about those Wolverines.
On Oct. 1, 1938, Michigan beat
Michigan State 14-0 - and the
game was a sign of change.
"For Michigan, victory was as
sweet as nectar," The Michigan
Daily sportswriter Bud Benjamin
wrote. "For the first time in four
long years the sun began to peep
through the clouds. Michigan foot-
ball was on its way back -
"Why on its way back? What's
new and improved on this 1938
team?"
The lasting answer to that ques-
tion wasn't detailed in the Daily,
but we know now that what was
truly new about Michigan was
its winged helmets - now the
most lasting symbol of Wolverine

tradition.
When former Michigan player
David Nelson got the coaching job
at Delaware in 1951, he took the
helmets with him.
And this season, Delaware's in-
state "rival" Delaware State's two
biggest games of the season are
against teams that sport the tradi-
tion-rich headgear.
Delaware State's game against
Delaware, played on Sept. 19, and
the Hornets' game against Michi-
gan on Saturday were both ini-
tially intended to be just schedule
fillers. The game against Delaware
has turned into an attempt tobuild
tradition, but the game against
Michigan is a one-and-done affair.
Even though FCS (formerly
Division 1-AA) schools Delaware
and Delaware State are only locat-
ed an hour apart, they had never
scheduled a regular-season game
until one of Delaware's opponents
pulled out of its contract and the
Blue Hens needed to fill the open
date. Delaware State lost 27-17 last
month, but the two schools worked
out an agreement and will now play

each oth
But ti
Michiga
intended
Michiga
"It's
a
yo
Sati
Michiga
added th
ensure t
have eig
for 12 s
Rodrigu
"Yeah
guez sai
ment pr
- they

ier in 2012, 2013 and 2014. 12th game. But from a football
he Hornets' game against coach, heck yeah. Let's play five or
n tomorrow was always six, or four or five, and then have a
d to be just an easy way for bye week and go."
n to get to 12 games. The Rodriguez said it has been nice
to be able to schedule teams where
Michigan doesn't have to return
the favor of traveling to a game.
not the same Of course, some of those one-way
teams have been Toledo, which
tmosphere beat Michigan 13-10 last year,
and FCS team Appalachian State,
u have on a which shocked the Wolverines,
34-32.
rirnetin e Those games have predictably
come up in discussion this week.
urday night" "I knew I was gonna get that
question," cornerback Troy Wool-
folk said immediately when asked
if this week reminds him at all of
n Athletic Department the game against the Mountain-
he game on Feb. 7, 2009 to eers. The questions were bound to
hat the Wolverines would happen -- after all, Michigan is 0-1
;ht home games but play against FCS opponents all-time.
traight weeks, something But this opponent is nothing like
ez said he didn't prefer. Appalachian State, one of the most
. I'd play 11 games," Rodri- dominant FCS teams of all time.
id. "Our Athletic Depart- En route to a 1-3 record, Delaware
obably wouldn't like that State has yet to score a single point
want the revenue from a in the third quarter of games. It is

averaging 14.2 points per contest,
has made just one of six field goals
and lost 9-7 to previously winless
Bethune-Cookman last week after
giving up a field goal with a little
more than two minutes left in the
game.
Still, Rodriguez said Delaware
State and the Wolverines have
similar offenses, and he mentioned
the Hornets' speed - as well as the
Appalachian State factor of under-
estimating a FCS opponent- as
things to possibly watch out for on
Saturday.
"As a coach, you worry about
everything," he said. "You worry
about a team that has, you know,
21, 22-year-olds, which they do,
eight or nine seniors. They've got
a chip on their shoulder because
they want to prove they can play
against our guys who are 18 and
19-year-olds in some spots.
"It's not the same atmosphere
you have on a primetime Satur-
day night game we had last week.
... We'll get their Super Bowl - it's
their best shot. So our guys have to
understand that."

SPECIAL TEAMS
P

K

KR
1. Stonum, Darryl Sophomore, No. 22
2. Grady, Kelvin RS sophomore, No.19

1. Olesnavage, Jason RS senior, No. 92 1. Mesko, Zoltan RS senior, No. 41
2. Gibbons, Brendan Freshman, No. 34 2. Wright, Bryan RS junior, No. 43

Note: Depth chart as predicted by Daily football writers.


w w w w w w


w

-W,

w

'W

w

w

.W


Foobal Sturay 0Otobr 1, 009


Six games down, six to go -
it's time to assess what's
wo ng and what
works a at.

THE ,MOST TELLING STATS



Rushing yards per game: 197.3
Get senior tailbacks Carlos Brown and
Brandon Minor healthy at the same time,
and Michigan's rushing production is more
impressive than No. 2 in the Big Ten and
No. 23 in the nation. Besides ablip when
the Wolverines put up a measly 28 yards
against Michigan State, Brown, Minor and
the other Michigan tailbacks havebeen
beyond solid.


Turnover margin: -0.33
It's a statistic that's obviously not
where the coaching staffwould like it to.
he. But after finishing a dismal No. 110
in the nation last year with an atrocious
-12 margin, Michigan will acceptbeing
just below zero. After center David Molk
returns from injury, expect the fumbles at
quarterback to fade.

Passing defense: 246.5
yards per game
It's lonely at the hottom. Six games in,
the Michigan defense finds itself in the
cellar of the Big Ten after givingup 2465
passing yards per game. Chalk some of
that op to talented receivers like Notre
Dame's Golden Tate and Michael Floyd, but
you can't ignore the talent void opposite
cornerbackDonovan Warren. After moving
from safety to cornerback last week against
lowa, Troy Woolfolk looks like he could be
Warren's counterpart in the backfield.

Fourth down conversions: 71%
It's still early and the sampling is small,
but the Wolverines have proven themselves
five of seven times on the down that
matters. Against Notre Dame, quarterback
Tate Forcier capitalized on decisive
play calling when he ran for a 31-yard
touchdown on a fourth down.

*Brandon Graham's 1.67
tackles for loss per game-
Sure, he didn't have a sack during the
first month of the season, and it might
make you think he's slipping, hut Brandon
Graham is findinghis way around the
double teams. His 1.67 tackles for loss
per game puts him at No.15 in the .
nation. Although Graham was left offthe
Rotary Lombardi semifinal list, he's still
contributing with solid numbers you would
expect from the senior defensive end.

THE QUESTIONS GOING FORWARD

DISHING OUT THE GRADES

Which bowl game is
Michigan likely attending
this postseason?
Well, it will be a betterbowl than
last year.
Too soon?
Michigan needs just two more
wins to qualify for a bowl game,
and assuming one-win Delaware
State isn't the next Appalachian
State, the Wolverines will be sitting
pretty after Saturday.
Then, it just depends onwhere
Michigan finishes in the Big Ten.
The Wolverines already have two
conference losses, and no team has
won a Big Ten championship with
multiple defeats since 2000.
But Michigan has a good shot at
eclipsing .500 in the conference if
it can knock off Wisconsin or Penn
State. Wolverine fans can breathe
a sigh of relief - they will likely go
bowling in a warm-weather state,
which means it won't be at the
Little Caesars Pizza Bowl.

Is the force actually with
Tate Forcier?
That certainly seems to be the
case, unless the 188-pound signal
caller gets his bell rung a few more
times.
After a very good first six games
(57.2 completion percentage!
Nine touchdowns!), Forcier is the
clear-cut starter, although that's
assuming injuries don't prove to be
his downfall.
Forcier is the real deal because
he finds ways to win, and his
growth potential over the next
three seasons is exciting for fans.
The rest of the year should help
Forcier solidify his starting spot
for the future, even with the rivals.
com top-rated quarterback Devin
Gardner committed for next

Is Denard Robinson
more than a glorified
running back?
This could take a while to figure
out.
Rodriguez has insisted that
Robinson will play quarterback -
he did groom Pat White at West
Virginia, after all - but time and
time again, Robinson has proved to
be much more effective as a runner.
Saturday's game against
Delaware State will hopefully
provide a little insight. Robinson is
expected to get many more snaps
than he has so far this season. But
then again, even if he looks like the
next Tim Tebow, it is against the
Hornets.
Thetsecond-half Big Ten
matchups will be the best
barometer for Robinson's future,
especially with Gardner poised to
enroll in January.

Could Warren leave
school early?
No. This is Warren's first
excellent season, and his
playmaking ability is accentuated
by the secondary's lack of depth.
But then again, considering
defenses have largely avoided his
side of the field, Warren's numbers
are even more impressive this
season. Warren's statistics, with
three interceptions and 10 pass
breakups, are some of the best in
the conference.
At the moment, Warren doesn't
look likea first-rounder, and
another year under his belt would
significantly help his draft stock.
It seems unlikely right now, but
with Warren playing the way he is,
it's something to keep an eye on..

What will come of the
Free Press allegations?
With all of the Detroit Free Press
allegations coming out this season,
particularly the preseason report
that Rodriguez violated NCAA
practice regulations, it is almost a
sure thing that follow-ups are in
the works.
The practice-related accusations
are currently under investigation.
Although the findings aren't
expected to be released any time
soon, it'll be interesting to see if
they have any significant effect on
the program.
We don't expect the allegations
to have any direct impact on the
team, but you never know what
could happen.

THE PLAYERS/POSITIONS
THAT NEED TO STEP UP

OFFENSE DE ENSE
After getting off to a blistering start on the "Bend but not break" maybecome an
ground, Michigan hita speed bump against extremely overused cliche this season. Yardage-
the Spartans. It recovered against Iowa and is wise, Michigan is on pace for its worst defensive
now second in the conference in rush offense, year, yet the Wolverines somehow lock down
but the running backs still haven't managed to in the red zone. Brandon Graham and Donovan
overshadow comeback phenom Tate Forcier, Warren have been the lone highlights of the unit,
who has exceeded all expectations. Too many and their play has kept the defense from getting
three-and-outs and seven turnovers in the past a 'D' grade. Does the University give anything
two games knock the offense down to a 'B', less than a'C' in classes, anyway?
though.

THE MOST MEANINGFUL MOMENTS OF THE FIRST HALF

Boubacar Cissoko/J.T.
Fioyd, cornerbacks
Through six games, the
secondary has been the most
team's glaringweakness. The
Wolverines are dead last in
the Big Ten in passingyards
allowed per game, and the lack
of a true second cornerback
opposite stalwart Donovan
Warren has deeply hindered
their ability to find consistency
at the position.
one of these two needs to
step upo cornerback-turned-
safety-turned-cornerhack
Tiny Woolfolk can move hack
to strong safety, where his
speed can really help ashaky
defensive unit.
Obi Ezeh, middle
linebacker
Yes, Ezeh is sixth in the Big
Ten with 55 tackles. But there's
more to his position than
takedowns, especially in new
defensive coordinator Greg
Robinson's wacky scheme.
Ezeh's pass coverage leaves

much to be desired, and as the
"quarterback of the defense,"
it's up to the middle linebacker
to shoulder the load for a
defense that's on track to give
up almost 300 points - which
could potentiallybe the worst
in school history.
Greg Mathews, wide
receiver
In the 2008 Capital One Bowl,
Mathews had areakoutgame
- or that's what Michigan fans
thought at the time. Rspecially
after Mario Manningham and
Adrian Arrington left for the
NFL.
Through six games this season,
Mathews has the same number
of catches, seven, as in that one
bowl game - and just 24 more
total yards. He's also averaging
just 3.4 yards per punt return,
and he muffed a critical punt
late against Iowa that could
have changed the outcome of
the game.
Well, at least he had that one
touchdown against Notre
Dame.

Darryl Stonum, vide
receiver & kick returner
If Michigan is going to continue
to play in these tight, heart
attack-inducing games, special
teams is going to plays huge
factor. One could definitely
argue that Stonum is the reason
the Wolverines upset Notre
Dame, but the Texan has trailed
off since then.
Stonum was No. 15 in the
country in yards per kick return
after the Indiana game, hut in
the losses to Michigan State
and Iowa, he averaged just 18.8
yards per return. That definitely
kills the field-position battle.
The return game is essential to
the offense's success - and that
success rests on Stonum from
here on out.
Tate Forcier/
Denard Robinson,
quarterbacks
Here are the Daily, we're not
about to knock these two. They,
especially Forcier, have far
exceeded expectations - and
with their quick adaptation
to college football, there's no
way Michigan would be 4-2 at
the midway point. So, putting
Forcier and Robinson on this
list isn't necessarily negative -
we're just saying they need to
step up even more as leaders if
they Wolverines want to finish
strong.

SPECIAL T EAMS
Sophomore Darryl Stonum has gone from
stunning to just acceptable in the last couple
weeks, but is still just 147 yards away from
breaking Michigan's season record for kickoff
returns. Greg Mathews should find a cure for
that nagging senioritis, but for the most part,
he has been reliable. And who singlehandedly
boosted special teams by a full letter grade? It's
Zoltan Mesko, who has kicked a helluva ball
thus far.

COACHING
It takes a lot to groom two freshman
quarterbacks, especially when one has a full
head of shaggy, light brown hair and the other
sports impressive dreadlocks. Although both
Forcier and Denard Robinson have looked like
freshmen at times, Rodriguez and his staff
have made the necessary adjustments to ensure
the two learn the playbook at an appropriate
pace. But some questionable coaching at crucial
times, like the defensive coaches' inability to
anticipate schemes Michigan hasn't seen on
film, has cost the Wolverines. At some point,
the second-half adjustments need to happen
before the second half.

David Molk breaks his
foot against Eastern
Michigan
Center David Molk broke his foot
on a first-half play against Eastern
Michigan on Sept.19 and had
surgery two days later. His initial
prognosis suggested a return in
four to six weeks, and though he is
making progress, his exact return
date is still unknown.
Molk's injury has showed all too
well the value of an experienced
center. David Moosman, who
moved from right guard to fill
Molk's void, botched six snaps in
the next game against Indiana. The
offensive line, which had been one
of the most consistent units until
Molk's injury, has been struggling
to find its groove ever since.

Denard Robinson
outruns and outjukes
the Broncos
Tate Forcier threw his first
touchdown as a Wolverine to
put Michigan up 7-0 early, but
Denard Robinson answered him
one flashier. On his first play from
scrimmage, Robinson fumbled the
snap and drew collective gasps
of dismay from the Big House
crowd. But Robinson picked up
the ball and ran to the outside.
He shook off a tackler, cut back
toward the middle, found a hole
and broke free for 43 yards and
his first touchdown. The shocking
play showcased both Robinson's
greatest strength (blazing speed)
and his greatest weakness
(unfamiliarity with the offense).
Both would come back to help and
haunt him duringthe season's next
five games.

Mathews and Forcier
pull through in the clutch
vs. Notre Dame
Greg Mathews may only have
seven catches this season, but
one of them was the Wolverines'
biggest of the first half. Michigan,
desperately needing to prove itself
in the early-season game, trailed
Notre Dame 34-31 with 16 seconds
left. On second-and-goal, Forcier
threw under pressure to Mathews,
who caught the ball inside the one-
yard line and stepped into the end
zone. The play proved that Forcier
could calmly lead his team to a
comeback, and he would go on to
help Michigan come back against
Indiana and Michigan State.

With a chance to be the
hero, Forcier throws an
OT interception
That said, Forcier has also
showed he is human. The crazed
hype surrounding the freshman
quarterback after Michigan's 4-0
start followed him to East Lansing,
where the 1-3 Spartans were
determined to spoil the Wolverines'
record. After leading Michigan to
yet another improbable comeback
to force the game to overtime,
Forcier decided to go for the
end zone on third down - and
threw the ball directly at safety
Danny Fortener, who tipped the
ball enough for Michigan State
cornerback Chris L. Rucker to
catch it. Michigan State scored on
the ensuing possession to seal a
26-20 win. Forcier later called the
interception a "freshman mistake."

Michigan's defense
almost costs the team a
win against Indiana
Against Indiana, Tate Forcier's
leaping touchdown run and
two-point conversion run put the
Wolverines up by three with 9:15
left in the game. But that lead held
for just 18 seconds. On Indiana's
ensuing drive, Darius Willis took
the ball and ran 85 yards. Defensive
end Ryan Van Bergen said after
the game that the missed play was
the result of an incorrect check, a
mistake that he said was "something
very basic, first week." Though the
long run wasn't the beleaguered
secondary's fault, it was just another
big play the Michigan defense has
given up at a crucial moment this
season. The play gave Indiana
a four-point lead, which forced
Forcier and Co. to score a late
touchdown to win the game.


