t f ' 9 v 1
! A
III
4
le ic i an 4:)at

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, February 12, 2009

michigandaily.com

BONDING THROUGH DANCE

CAMPUS LANDMARK
Red Hot
to leave
East U.
Owner says landlord denied the
hot dog joint's lease renewal
By MATT AARONSON
Daily Staff Reporter
Red Hot Lovers, the legendary campus hot dog eat-
ery on East University Avenue, will not be reopening in
its current location.
"I feel like I was jerked around," said Troy Slade,
the owner of Red Hot, who claims he was all but guar-
anteed a lease renewal by the landlord and the former
owner of the restaurant when he bought the business
in the fall of 2007.
"I take it personally," he said. "I bought the business
under the impression that I was going to get this long-
term lease. That was why I bought it."
Slade said his landlord, Dick Johnston, told him in
an e-mail yesterday afternoon that his lease will not be
renewed.
Slade, who operates the business from New York,
had given Johnston somewhat of an ultimatum last
year. He told him that he would only stay if he was
given a longer-term lease when his current one runs
out in a few months. Johnston had offered a one-year
extension, which Slade said wasn't acceptable given
the long-term planning and investment needs of this
kind of business.
When reached at home last night, Johnston declined
to comment on the e-mail.
Slade closed Red Hot Lovers during winter break,
expecting to resolve the conflict with Johnston by the
time students came back to campus.When break ended,
the restaurant needed some renovations, so without a
decision from Johnston, Slade decided to keep it closed
rather than invest more money in a location he might
have had to leave soon.
"In retrospect now, I made a savvy decision in a
tough economy," Slade said.
He added that the construction of the Zaragon Place
apartment complex next door to Red Hot wasn't good
for business.
The site of Zaragon Place, where the Anberay apart-
See RED HOT, Page 7A

CHANEL VON HABSRG-LTRINt/Day
Liz Lerman Dance Exchange presented 'Small Dances About Big Ideas: Experts and Reflections' in the League Ballroom yesterday. The performance was in conjunction with a aph Wil iams class,
AN INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
Art School: Time abroad a must

Students required to
complete at least three
weeks at an overseas
institution to graduate
By NICOLE ABER
Daily StaffReporter
When Bryan Rogers, dean of the
School of Art & Design, addresses the
freshman class at the beginning of
each academic year, he tells them three
things: to take care of themselves, not to
define themselves too narrowly and to
use their passports.
This international mentality has
been channeled into a new require-

ment for students at the School of Art
& Design. Starting in the fall of 2010 all
incoming Art & Design students will be
required to study abroad at some point
during their time at the University.
Currently, about half of the school's
500 undergraduates study abroad at
some point during their four years at
the University, said Mary Schmidt,
associate dean for academic affairs and
undergraduate education at the School
of Art & Design.
The graduate program at the School
of Art & Design already has a study
abroad requirement.
Joe Trumpey, associate professor
and director of international engage-
ment at the School of Art & Design, has
been working with Rogers for three
years to develop this new requirement.

He said the program's aim is to give
students a more global education by
requiring them to study in a different
cultural setting.
"The goal is to have our students
get beyond our borders to engage in
some interdisciplinary and intercul-
tural learning and experiences, so the
requirement is broader than just study
abroad," Trumpey said.
The minimum time a student must
study abroad to fulfill the requirement
is three weeks. But the School of Art
& Design administration encourages
students to study abroad for at least a
semester to get the optimal experience,
Schmidt said.
Art & Design students can choose
from a variety of programs including
volunteer, internship and not-for-credit

programs, as well as the University's
Global Intercultural Experience for
Undergraduates program.
The School of Art & Design has
already established 22 partnerships
with various foreign institutions,
Trumpey said. He added that the school
is lookingto establish between 10 and 15,
more partnerships in the next two years
so that students will have a variety of
locations from which to choose.
"The real strategy here is to be able
to have a spectrum of the kinds of expe-
riences that a diverse group of students
could find appealing," he said. "China
and India are certainly top priorities,
and I'd like to get a sub-Saharan Africa
culture on that list as well."
Through these partnerships, a Uni-
See ART ABROAD, Page SA


STUDENT PUBLICATIONS
Money woes hit Student Pubs.

MINI MASTERPIECE

The Daily's parent FOR DAILY EDITOR
organization faces IN CHIEF GARY
financial troubles as GRACA'S TAKE, SEE
industry hits skids OPINION, PAGE 4A


By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily StaffReporter
Consistent with a trend that
is overwhelming print publica-
tions across the nation, the body
that oversees the finances of The
Michigan Daily and other student
publications at the University is

grappling with significant inan-
cial issues.
A budget summary dated Feb.
2 forecasts that Student Publica-
tions' cashflows would be in the
red by the end of the 2009 fiscal
year in June. The prediction, along
with months of mounting revenue
decline, forced the organization
to take a serious look at expenses,

and develop new plans for generat-
ing income.
Student Publications, which is
not funded by the University, and
is almost entirely student-run,
includes The Michigan Daily, the
Michiganensian yearbook and the
Gargoyle magazine. It also pro-
duces the student directory, and
employs a staff of over one hun-
dred students and seven full-time
professionals.
Of the units within Student
Publications, The Michigan Daily
is by far the largest, accounting for
about half of the money budgeted
for the remainder of the fiscal year.

Projects overseen by the Board of
Student Publications are allotted
28 percent of the funds, and 22
percent go to development proj-
ects like seeking alumni donations.
Combined, the Michiganensian,
the Gargoyle and the directory
use about two percent of the total
budget.
In December, the financial
situation of Student Publications
led the board to decide to with-
draw $300,000 from its $3 mil-
lion invested in the University's
endowment, which is usually not
intended for day-to-day operations.
See PUBLICATIONS, Page 5A


CHANGES AT RACKHAM
Ph.D.s in uproar
over new po icy
By KYLE SWANSON faculty body last week, would
Daily StaffReporter require all Ph.D. candidates to
- - -register pay tuition each semester,
A continuous enrollment pro- something not currently required.
posal for Ph.D. candidates has It would also lower the average
come under fire recently by the tuition rate for candidates and
Continuous Enrollment Work provide them with uninterrupted
Group, an organization of Univer- access to University resources.
sity graduate students who say the Formally approved by the Rack-
proposal is not being accurately ham Executive Board in Decem-
portrayed to the community. ber, the proposal has been under
The proposal, which was development for more than a
pitched to the University's top See RACKHAM, Page 7A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA mulls changes
to public comments

By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
In light of a recent surge of
community members protesting
the conflict in Gaza, Michigan
Student Assembly representatives
are considering modifying the
portion of their weekly meeting
devoted to community members'
concerns.
Currently any member of the
community is permitted five
minutes to speak about any topic,

regardless of whether or not that
person is affiliated with the Uni-
versity.
At Tuesday's MSA meeting,
Business Rep. Jason Raymond
made an announcement to the
assembly urging discussion about
modifying this system of "Com-
munity Concerns."
"I don't know where I stand on
it, but I think it's something we
could really talk about," he said.
"Obviously we had some commu-
See MSA, Page 7A

ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
The Arts & the Environment's Earth installation incorporates video, poetry and original
music into its reflection on the relationship between humans and the Earth. The instal-
lation will be on display at the Duderstadt Gallery on North Campus until Feb. 20.


WEATHER HI: 37
TOMORROW 0 23

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news a michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Daily vault: Making fun of MSA, circa 1988
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS .............
Vol CXIX,N o 93 SUDOKU......
2009 TheMichigan Daily O PIN N.I....
michigondaily com

.............2A CLASSIFIEDS.........
.............3A SPORTS.................
.............4A THE B-SIDE..........

hA
A

f


hursday, February 12, 2009

hurdayFebuay 1, 209The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

MONDAY:
Ot; her Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Campus Characters

NTEPRENEURIAL JOB SEEKERS

WEDNESDAY: THRDY ID
Explained Befre ou W re ere Photos of ti"
Forbidden fornication

On June 15,1971, the Univer-
sity's Student Services Hous-
log Policy Board lifted a ban
against premarital sex in the
dormns. The ban, which was put
in place by the Board of Gover-
nors of Residence Halls in 1965,
was deemed ineffective and
impossible to enforce.
A policy hoard member told
the Daily at the titme that ban-
ning premaarital sex and cohab-
itation frotu the residence halls
was "useless."
"(The policy) has never
been enforced and cannot be
enforced,' " the hoard member
said.
The decision to ban pre-
marital sex in the residence
halls- along with other hous-
ing policies- was determined
through secret ballot by the
residents of each University
housing unit's residents.

After the decision had been
made, the Board of Governors
echoed the students' decision
calling premarital sex "unac-
ceptable in University housing
units."
Students at the time weren't
even aware that the policy
existed.
"I didn't even know they
had such a rule," one junior
told the Daily at the time. "My
friend lived with her boyfriend
in South Quad all last semester
and nobody raised a fuss."
John Feldkamp, then-boos-
log director and policy board
tmember, had a different, more
serious view of the ban.
"(Dormitory residents) must
exercise due regard for the
welfare of their fellow students
and for the facilities in which
they reside," Feldkamp told
the Daily, citing a clause in the

information bulletin about res-
idence hall life.
Feldkamp also said that two
students had been expelled
under the ban in 1968.
Most current students don't
have to worry abouthbeing pun-
ished for engaging in premari-
tal sex in the residence halls. In
many dorms, including Mary
Markley Hall and South Quad,
there are no rules against visi-
tors in the rooms.
But at Martha Cook Build-
ing, a female-only residence
hall, there are still regulations
for male visitors. The residents
must escort their guests while
they are in the building. Male
visitation hours are from noon
to midnight from Sundays to
Thursdays, and are extended
from noon to 2 am. on Fridays
and Saturdays.
- JASMINE ZHU

soore Jarres Naughtor talks to a busness reresenta
>raratasn at the MPowered Career Fair yesterday.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor is Chief Easiness Manager
7a4-647'-a3a6 734-764-0058
araea@miehicandail.com bagli@miechigandailyecom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom 010cr1hor: Sun:Thurs. tt1a..-2a~m
News Tips r newsoicigandaily.com
Correctianscoerrecrions@mrichigandailyacom
Leierslaothe Editr totedflymichiganrairy.coem
Photography Department ehoteomichigandaily.com
Artis Section artspaemgichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinian@michigandaily.co
Spants Sectian csportsgoichigandaily.omo
Display Sales aisplaygmiscigadaiy.omo
Classified Sales rclai rihigandlyecom
Online Sales onlineadsgoichigandaily.com
Finance financegmichigandaily.omo
EDITORIAL STAFF
Caartney Ratkowiak Managingsditror ratkowiak@michigandaityacom
Jacab SmiloVitMaaing News Etrior smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SEIRNESEIORS:rilian Brman, TrorCalro, JulieRo,Lindyartevens
ASSrSTANT NES EITORS:0Matt ar oo, Benjamoin,:S . Chase, Catrin Schneidr,
JnSoller, Kyle Swanson
Robert Soave tditorialPe Eoditor soaeo@michigandaity.om
Andy Reid ManagingoSporrtsditor reidamichigandaily.omo
Herig,Rth Lncoln
ASSINTnoSOSE IOS:Ryae a rtiesIan Kays raaoncKohlerChisMeszaros,
Ale rospoer,oRowig
David Watnick ManagingArtsEdiaor watnick@michigandailyacom
SEsIRoARTSEIORS:oamieBock,sBradoneoradis,Whitn~e ow
ASSrrISTATARSEDOR:oshuaBayr, AdrewLpin ae Rep,ensVrnsngor
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandilyrcom
Clii Reeder ManagingPhorotEdirorn
sSrEsOROOEIORS:oarsala hr anel Vronabbrg-L~othrlingen
AngelatChih and deign icrihigandaily.omo
MaareenrStych Maaing DesignEditrsn
Jessica Vosgerchian Mcgczinertdiror vosgerchian@michigandarily.com
Daoid Merian Mulimia Eirdiror merian@michnigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopyrChief mirrhellamichigandailyacom
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenbnoer Disploa dvertisingSalen Managr
Newmanr,Christire Phlps
Ryan Businski ClriassidSlesManagr
Crlrase alesAsistantManagr: Alio hr omasr
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Managr
ien English ProductioDesignManacer
Meryl Hulteng LcroutMcnacer
Vivian Lee and Emily Loaeless FinancerManagers
TheMichigantail ISSN0r45-9is ulished cMronday trrognrdaydcroh~urin h al n itr
trmsocbycrudentsrcterhUnirversyorsMchian.urOnrecorisaaiaboerfreerrrargrto allradr.
Aaairionalopesoaybe pickacuprrt tDaily'scor$2.Subscrptos orl r, sintarting in
SeprcemberaU.S.ccai ace$11. ie erm(Jaurhrouhpril cs1r5,yerlogSeprembr
throhAl)isr15. Unvrsirtysafflaresare rubjecrrroa redcdscriprionrae.On-campus
ccbcrpofrrfltrmare$cr Sbscrposcuctbrepad.Thsciga aiyicanmenbrrf
ThesrociedrPrssad Th sociated Cliteressr c.

:CRIME NOTES
yck student
--fuses
cament
tiOR"r:Nrorthsworrd Itt
Vf N-I'crc-day arund 5:20
Y i studen'rt called an
neforanrother sto-
I:::wars feelinog ill, Uni-
"ol~ ice reported. The
Ir tr eforsed treatment.
-kTital patient
)und with
lirJuana
TIRR': Uniersity Htrspital
VHE:r I'ucuday around 8:05
WHATr A paticot was found
ssirg a crotrolled sorb-
:a.L niversity Police
rte.The substance was
irctad tor be marijuana.

___________CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Police search for Film screening Student musical
but do not find on prison system performance

ticket scalper
WHERE: Lot SC-6, 121111Kipke
Dr.
WHEN: Turesday arounnd 5:51)
p.m.
WHAT: Dfficers checked thre
area for a subject soliciting for
basketball tickets, University
Irolice reported. Police did not
locate the suspect.

jWHAT: A screening of
"Autumn's Eyes" a film about
a little girl who watches her
funnily go to prison in New
York City.
WHO: University Unions Arts
and Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 7 prm, to
9:30 pr.
WHERE: Vandenburg Roomn,
Michigan League

Phone swiped d 'alonbnftfrmhsil of socialism

WHAT: A performance of
"Under Milk Wood", a play
about a day in a small town.
WHO: Departmenat of Musical
-Theatre
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Arthur Miller The-
atre, Walgreen Drama Center
History of
astronomytalk
WHAT: University of Wis-
consin Prof. Michael Shank
will give a lecture on astrono-
may at the time of Galileo.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Tonight from 7:30 p.m.
to 9:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 100, Harlan
Hatcher Graduate Library
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in Ehe Daily En corrections@
michigandailycom.

1A Berlin bartender accused
of killing a 16-year-old boy
by serving him 45 tequila
shots will go to trial, BBC.
comn reported. The bartender
known as Aytac C was alleg-
edly engaged in a drinking bet
with the boy, when he visited
his bar in February 2007, hoc
poured only water for himself.
2Local video game shop,
Get Your Game On,
will be hosting 'a Super
Smash Brothers Tournament
on Valentine's Day.
>>FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE, PAGE lB
3Members of the Sudan
Ulema Authority, are
encouraging Sudanese
children to boycott Valen-
tine's Day, Reuters reported.
The influential body of reli-
gious leaders said the West-
ern holiday could lead couples
astray.

I

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Tuesday arorud 11:30
p.m.
WHAT: A subject reported
chat a black Samsung phonre
was strolen from the hospital,
University Police reported.
The threft occurred otn 'Tues-
day betweenr 9 poum. and 9:411

WHAT: A public meeting
with a discussion that will
focus on the viability of the
world capitalist system.
WHO: Students for Social
Equality
WHEN: Tonight from 7 pr.
to 9 p.10.
WHERE: Michigano Room,
Michigan League

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-MAIL SMILOVITZ@&MICHIGANDAILY.COM

0


a

4120 Maynard, P'OFHoor, Display D~epartiment. Any questions? Call 734-7b64-0554 forer
Ai Doctor of.Al
Chiropractic
Are You Ready to Accept the Challenge?
The Logan Doctor of Chiropractic program includes extensive
study in science, physiotherapy, nutrition, radiology, clinical
sciences, chiropractic techniqlues, bousiness training and extensive
clinical rotations.
Students also have the opportunity to combine their chiropractic
education with a unique Master's degree in Sports Science&
Rehabilitation (MS/DC).
Specialties Within Chiropractic:

matien

* Sports Rehab
+ Pediatrics
*Geriatrics
+ Radiology
# acupuncture

*General Practice
* Neurology
*Orthopedics
*Research
* Personal injury

*I

Contact Lagan University at www loganedu for
an into packet to your tuture as o Doctor of
Chiropractic.
Chesterfield (St. Louia area), Missouri+ 800-533-9

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 12, 2009 -- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Lawmakers agree
on stimulus bill
Moving with lightning speed,
key lawmakers announced agree-
ment yesterday on a $789 bil-
lion economic stimulus measure
designed to create millions of jobs
in a nation reeling from recession.
President Barack Obama could sign
the bill within days.
"The middle ground we've
reached creates more jobs than
the original Senate bill and costs
less than the original House bill,"
said Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, one of the participants in an
exhausting and frenzied round of
bargaining.
The bill includes help for vic-
tims of the recession in the form
of unemployment benefits, food
stamps, health coverage and more,
as well as billions for states that
face the prospect of making deep
cuts in their own programs.
It also preserves Obama's signa-
ture tax cut - a break for millions
of lower and middle income tax-
payers, including those who don't
earn enough to pay income taxes.
WASHINGTON
Peanut*Co. owner
refuses to testify
See the jar, the congressman
challenged Stewart Parnell, hold-
ing up a container of the peanut
seller's products and asking if he'd
dare eat them. Parnell pleaded the
Fifth.
The owner of the peanut com-
pany at the heart of the massive
salmonellarecall refused to answer
the lawmaker's questions - or any
others - yesterday about the bac-
teria-tainted products he defiantly
told employees to ship to some 50
manufacturers of cookies, crackers
and ice cream.
"Turn them loose," Parnell had
told his plant manager in an inter-
nal e-mail disclosed at the House
hearing. The e-mail referred to
products that once were deemed
contaminated but were cleared in a
second test last year.
Summonedbycongressionalsub-
poena, the owner of Peanut Corp.
of America repeatedly invoked his
right not to incriminate himself at
the House Energy and Commerce
subcommittee hearing on the sal-
monella outbreak that has sickened
some 600 people, may be linked to
nine deaths - the latest reported in
Ohio yesterday - and resulted in
one of the largest product recalls of
more than 1,900 items.
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.
Two satellites
collide 500 miles
above Siberia
Two big communications sat-
ellites collided in the first-ever
crash of two intact spacecraft in
orbit, shooting out a pair of massive
debris clouds and posing a slight
risk to the international space sta-
tion.

NASA said it will take weeks to
determine the full magnitude of
the crash, which occurred nearly
500 miles over Siberia on Tuesday.
"We knew this was going to hap-
pen eventually," said Mark Matney,
an orbital debris scientist at John-
son Space Center in Houston.
NASA believes any risk to the
space station and its three astro-
nauts is low. It orbits about 270
miles below the collision course.
There also should be no danger to
the space shuttle set to launch with
' seven astronauts on Feb. 22, offi-
cials said, but that will be re-eval-
uated in the coming days.
LONE GROVE, Okla.
Rescuers search
for more victims of
Oklahoma twisters
Rescuers sorted through bricks
and shattered plywood yester-
day in search of more victims
of a deadly tornado that blasted
through a small Oklahoma town
where many people in a trailer
park had nowhere to escape the
howling winds.
Some people were killed by fly-
ing debris. One man died when a
pickup truck fell on him. At least
eight bodies were recovered.
There were also miraculous tales
of survival: People taking shelter in
a closet pulled a woman to safety
after the tornado blew part of the
roof off and threatened to carry her
away. Another woman was found
injured but alive beneath an over-
turned mobile home.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


Banks agree on greater accountability

vIi

ues to spiral downward in an ever-
worsening recession.
Taxpayers are furious with big
banks that benefited from the fed-
eral bailout designed to get credit
moving again, but which also spent
lavishly on executive bonuses,
company retreats and office redec-
orating.
Lawmakers also are feeling the
heat for signing off on the bailout
package plan, which was conceived
last year under President Bush and
now is in the hands of President
Barack Obama.
Across Capitol Hill, senators
pressed Treasury Secretary Tim-
othy Geithner on whether the
Obama administration will need
to request more money to fund
its financial industry rescue plan.
Obama's finance chief declined to
speculate and told the Senate Bud-
get Committee that more requests
are possible.
"So you have no clue," Sen. Lind-
sey Graham, R-S.C., told Geithner.
"Why not just ask for more? We
know you will."
A day after unveiling an effort
to pump up to $2 trillion into
the financial system, Geithner
defended the lack of detail in the
plan that caused fresh heartburn
on Wall Street and Capitol Hill.
He said the plan was presented
in mistakes of the past 12 months
where things *were rushed out
before they were ready, and strat-

egy had to be adapted because of
that
Over more than five hours in
the House, the CEOs were met
with deep skepticism from law-
makers who aggressively quizzed
them on how they have used
more than $160 billion in taxpay-
ers' money.
Rep. Barney Frank, chairman
of the panel, told the CEOs as the
hearing opened. "There has to be a
sense of the American people that
you understand their anger ... and
that you're willing to make some
sacrifices." Frank, D-Mass., also
asked banks to impose a moratori-
um on mortgage foreclosures until
Geithner comes up with a system-
wide mortgage modification.
The panel's top Republican,
Spencer Bachus of Alabama, said
the bankers and Congress must
sway people by "winning back
their trust and their confidence."
Repeatedly, lawmakers were
scornful and treated the financial
heavyweights almost like naughty
schoolchildren, ordering them to
raise their hands to indicate their
responses to blanket questions
about their own use of perks and
any policy changes made since
accepting the bailout money.
"You created the mess we're in,"
scolded Michael Capuano, D-Mass.
"And now you're saying 'Sorry.
Trust us.' ... America doesn't trust
you anymore."

MANUEL BALCE CENETA/A3
P Morgan Chase & Co. CEO James Dimon, speaks to lawmakers at the conclusion of testimony before a House Financial Ser-
ces Committee hearing on Capitol Hill, yesterday.

.t


Eight top bankers tae
appear before out.
financial committee hav
oft:
WASHINGTON (AP) - Facing offi
a disgusted- public and Congress, Mor
bank CEOs agreed with demands Fin:
for greater accountability yester- tee.
day in the first testimony on how A

y're spending money from the
payer-funded $700 billion bail-
Both our firm and our industry
e far to go to regain the trust
axpayers, investors and public
cials," John J. Mack, head of
rgan Stanley, told the House
ancial Institutions Commit-
dded JP Morgan Chase & Co.'s

Jamie Dimon: "We stand ready to
do our part going forward."
The eight top bankers appear-
ing before the panel were gener-
ally contrite and conceded they
have work to do to win over a bitter
public and an exasperated Con-
gress. They had little choice but
to acknowledge as much, given
intense anger and anxiety as the
troubled financial system contin-

Madoff's wife pulled out
$15 million before arrest

Bank withdrawals
included $10M the
day before her
husband's arrest
BOSTON (AP) - The wife of
disgraced money manager Ber-
nard Madoff withdrew more
than $15 million from a firm co-
owned by her husband - includ-
ing $10 million on the day their
children turned her husband
over to authorities for oversee-
ing an alleged $50 billion Ponzi
scheme, the top securities regu-
lator in Massachusetts said yes-
terday.
Secretary of State William
Galvin said Ruth Madoff, 67,
withdrew $5.5 million on Nov.
25 and $10 million on Dec. 10 -
the day before Bernard Madoff
was arrested - from Cohmad
Securities Corp., a New York
firm co-owned by her husband.
The secretary cited wire
transfer records produced by
Cohmad as proof of the with-
drawals. They came as Madoffs'
scheme was unraveling as inves-
tors filed $7 billion worth of
redemption requests.
They also appeared to fol-
low what authorities consider
a disturbing trend on the part
of the Madoffs to hide money
that could be used to reimburse
burned investors.
Prosecutors have already said
investigators found 100 signed
checks worth $173 million that
Madoff was ready to send out to

his closest family and friends at
the time of his arrest in Decem-
ber. Two weeks later, during the
Christmas holidays, Madoff sent
more than $1 million in jewelry
and heirlooms to family and'
friends.
"We're not accusing her
of anything wrong," Galvin
spokesman Brian McNiff said
of Ruth Madoff. "It's just one of
the things that came out in the
response, such as it was, from
Cohmad" to a subpoena from
Massachusetts officials. "Now,
what someone in New York or
the feds may think of it may be
entirely different."
A telephone number listed
to Ruth Madoff in Palm Beach,
Fla., rang busy and a number in
New York had been disconnect-
ed. A Cohmad spokeswoman in
New York said the company had
no comment. Ira Sorkin, a law-
yer for Bernard Madoff, said he
had no comment on the with-
drawals.
In New York, meanwhile,
the government and lawyers
for Madoff agreed to a 30-day
delay in the Wednesday dead-
line for obtaining a grand jury
indictment against the money
manager.
The new deadline is March 13.
As he had during a similar
extension a month ago, Assis-
tant U.S. Attorney Marc Litt
wrote that the government
requested the extension "for
the purpose of allowing time to
conduct additional discussions
regarding a possible disposition
of this case."

Egyptian workers unveil
perfectly preserved mummy
Mummy sealed in
2,600-year-old
limestone sarcophagus
SAQQARA, Egypt (AP) - Illu-
minated only by torches and cam-
era lights, Egyptian laborers used
crowbars and picks yesterday to lift
the lid off a 2,600-year-old lime- - , ,
stone sarcophagus, exposing - for
the first time since it was sealed in
antiquity - a perfectly preserved
mummy.
The mummy, wrapped in dark-
stained canvas, is part of Egypt's
latest archaeological discov-
ery of a burial chamber 36 feet x
(11 meters) below ground at the
ancient necropolis of Saqqara. The
find, made three weeks ago, was
publicly announced Monday and
shown to reporters for the first
time yesterday.
Egypt's archaeology chief Zahi
Hawass has dubbed it a "storeroona Egypt's antiquities chief Zahi Hawass (left) brushes away the sand to reveal a wood-
for mummies," because it houses en sarcophagus at the ancient necropolis of Saqqara, yesterday.
eight wooden and limestone sar-
cophagi as well as at least two tional media yesterday into the the shaft, holding on to a rope-
dozen mummies. burial chamber, supervising as one pulled winch turned by workers
Hawass-led a group of interna person at a time was lowered into above ground.


C:ar RepaoIr
* Co .etitiVe prxces
* RF 4Tax% bade to campus
* "Fsa'U owwed - 3t 3 ears
ProfessIonal
utomoti ue ProAutoTechs.com
. . . echnicians 734.665.9707
The Driving Force in Auto Repair

,

S U D O K U


w.

4A- Thursday, February 12, 2009

Inioll

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C 4e MIC41*pan wily


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Rackham's mistake
Graduate policy change hurts quality of programs
G oodbye to the exclusivity of Ph.D. programs at the Uni-
versity and hello to strained resources - the days of small
class sizes and hours of face time with professors could
be long gone. With a new continuous enrollment system in place,
Rackham Graduate School will admit more students but leave
funding unchanged. The plan ignores the true purpose of gradu-
ate school, emphasizing an expedient graduation rather than the
gradual process of thorough research. With this policy in place,
the University needs to concentrate more resources so that the
quality of a graduate education does not suffer.

I suggested that we have a talk show together called
'Pallin' Around With Sarah and Bill."
- Bill Ayers, commenting on his idea for a collaborative video show, in a
letter to Alaska governor Sarah Palin, as reported yesterday by CNN.

HARUN BULJINA

E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU-

Obama's
Stimulus Plan

a
I

A low-budget Valentine

Set to begin as early as fall 2010, the con-
tinuous enrollment system will include
already-admitted students and increase
enrollment by almost 30 percent. Under
the policy, students will have to register
each semester to retain an "active" sta-
tus until degree completion. Even during
periods of detached study, students are
required to register and pay tuition to stay
in the program.
The new policy serves the interests of
Rackham more than those of students.
Though a decrease in tuition rates is being
hailed as a welcome change, this won't real-
ly effect graduate students because most
of them have at least part of their tuition
covered by the University. What the pro-
posal will achieve is a higher completion
rates that will give Rackham a comparative
advantage in recruiting. It also argues that
if students retain "active" status, the change
will reduce administrative work in dealing
with the changing needs of Ph.D. students.
But a decreased hassle for the administra-
tion and a better reputation does not mean
a more efficient system for students.
The problem is that the Rackham execu-
tive board is trying to streamline graduate
programs that demand flexibility. Though
the board intends to solve a valid problem
- unsatisfactory graduation rates - it will
create new problems in the process. The

new system will essentially put more stu-
dents into programs not yet designed for
such numbers.
Students will face a higher student-
professor ratio and consequently less
individualized attention. In this case, a
higher enrollment puts quality at risk. Such
a change is not ideal for students investing
money and years of their lives into a pro-
gram - a program meant to facilitate their
independent research, not corner them
into speeding up the process and compete
for time with their professors.
The opportunity to do research abroad
without constraint is a crucial component
of graduate study. It is a time when detach-
ment from the University is often part
of the experience. Students who spend
extended periods of time studying abroad
should not have to deal with continuous
registration nor bear the financial burden
of paying tuition. Rackham's vague inten-
tion to provide University services while
abroad does not warrant the added pres-
sure on students to finish their degrees.
The goals of the continuous enrollment
system must remain open to evaluation
to ensure that the interests of students
are being met. Rackham needs to pro-
vide enough faculty and resources for an
increased number of students to get the
same quality education in graduate school.

With the economic fate of our
country uncertain, it seems
like the perfect time to
redirect our energy
to celebrating love,
companionship
and romance. But
the product place-
ment orgy that is
Valentine's Day
doesn't really lend
itself toward saving
money.R
According to a ROSE
2009 report done AFRIYIE
in conjunction
with the National
Retail Foundation,
Americans plan on spending $14.7 bil-
lion dollars this Valentine's Day. That
same report revealed that the average
woman will spend $85 and the average
man will outspend her almost 2 to 1 on
candy, jewelry and a night on the town
amounting to $156.
While some supporters of chivalry
will be pleased, Iam a little concerned.
While the plight of college students
isn't exactly dominatingrecession cov-
erage, that doesn't mean that students
will be unaffected by our country's fis-
cal changes.
Many here at the University, myself
included, are in the process of saving
money to compensate for our meager
to nonexistent internship income and
the time gap between our graduation
dates and first full-time paychecks.
Then there is the matter of opportuni-
ty cost. If some of us were not wasting
our shrinking discretionary income on
chocolates, expensive gifts and cards,
we might have a little extra for Spring
Break, summer travel or our favorite
charity or non-profit organization.
Valentine's Day can't take all the
credit for what Eva Illouz cited in
Consuming the Romantic Utopia, a
book that documents the history of
romance and capitalism in the U.S. as

the "romanticization of commodities."
This phenomenon is about how build-
ing and maintaining our romantic
relationships is centered on spending
money and how advertising and mass
media has reinforced this concept.
Dinners. Movies. Coffees. Think
about it: When was the last time you
went on a date that did not involve
anyone spending money? Perhaps I
would need to spend an entire column
covering gender stereotypes, relation-
ships and money, but it's worth noting
that mixing money and relationships
can sometimes become a minefield of
problematic expectations. To consider
heterosexuals, we all have that shady
female friend who only dates men who
can foot the bill every time they inter-
act. On the flip side, everyone has that
equally shady male friend who equates
each dollar he spends on a woman
with a sexual act he hopes to receive
that same evening.
Considering all this, I think it's time
for us to accept once and for all that
you don't need money to be romantic.
And I have some ideas on a few free
ways you can spend Valentine's Day
that will only cost you a little effort,
creativity, openness and the desire to
show someone you care.
Cards. Last year, 57 percent of
people bought cards for Valentine's
Day, according to the National Retail
Federation. Instead of buying a card,
climb fully into the 21st century and
e-mail one. Websites such as somee-
cards.com provide really funny, witty
e-cards for Valentine's Day. I almost
fell off my chair at card titles like
"Blow jobs are like flowers for men"
and "I hate Valentine's Day unless
you would like to be my date." The
websites also allow you to create your
own cards - for free.
Events. One of the benefits of being
on a college campus are the many free
and low-cost events that are going on
all Saturday long, as well as leading

up to Valentine's Day. Meeting the
needs of singles, couples and people
of all different colors and cultures, the
online events calendar provided by
the University and arborweb.com has
many free events featured, like movie
viewings and concerts.
Gifts. If you insist on buying some-
thing, put it toward a good cause.
Websites like organicstyle.com sell
organic roses and allow you to donate
You don't need to
shell out cash to
be romantic.
five percent of the purchase prie to
your favorite charity. You can also buy
fair trade chocolates through the site.
Non-profits also need love, too. You
can give a gift donation to organiza-
tions that are working overtime in the
wake of the recession such as Feeding
America, a non-profit that feeds 25
million low-income adults, children
and seniors annually.
Don't be afraid to give yourself
on Valentine's Day - literally. Wake
up next to your partner naked, tied
in a bow. Then proceed to take full
advantage of the fact that Valentine's
Day falls on a Saturday. Spend a good
amount of the day in: talking, blow-
ing through your DVD collection,
cuddling and cooking your own food.
Just don't forget to pick up some free
condoms from UHS this Friday. And,
in the words of someecards.com "have
a fiscally but not sexually conservative
Valentine's Day."
- Rose Afriyie is the Daily's sex
and relationships columnist. She can
be reached at sariyie@umich.edu.

6
I
I
I

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
GARY GRACA I IEWP I
Defending print journalism

Obama's scapegoats

Print newspapers aren't dead.
I say that knowing today's front page story
(Money woes hit Student Pubs., 02/12/2009)
about the financial woes of The Michigan Daily
- and more broadly, the University's Student
Publications - can be easily misinterpreted as
another example of print journalism's inevitable
demise.
I also say that as someone who has no emo-
tional attachment to print newspapers. I've never
bought a newspaper subscription. I don't curl up
on a couch every Sunday to read an encyclopedic-
size The New York Times. And, honestly, I don't.
read any print newspapers except the ones dis-
tributed on campus, like The Michigan Review,
The Michigan Independent and the Every Three
Weekly - all of which I read religiously.
So why, then, didh Iproclaim that we should
stop newsprint's funeral procession? Because
the supposedly common knowledge that print
newspapers are dying is a gross generalization
and a poor reflection of what's happening in the
media world.
The situation, as I see it, is as multi-faceted
as the thousands of print newspapers that exist
in this country. We've just minimized that com-
plexity into a single, fictitious catchphrase: No
one reads news in print.
Sure, many print newspapers are sinking rap-
idly. The Times is the poster boy of that fall from
grace. Even though its website is one of the most
visited on the Internet, it has still been forced
to borrow against. its 52-story, Renzo Piano-
designed headquarters and defile its front page
with advertising - all because it can't generate
the same kind of revenue online it once made
from its print product.
Close behind the Times are many other big
city or national newspapers. The Tribune Co.
- which owns the Los Angeles Times, Chi-
cago Tribune and Baltimore Sun, among other
newspapers - has already filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection. The Detroit Free Press
is cutting back its home delivery to three days
a week. And the Christian Science Monitor has
already made the leap to being an online-only
newspaper.
The rapid online shift these newspapers are
undergoing makes sense. These papers primar-
ily offer news that is intended for a large, het-

erogeneous audience. The Internet is the ideal
medium for that. Compared to expensive home
delivery subscriptions, it's simply a faster, cheap-
er and more convenient way to get information
to all of these people while understanding that
almost no two consumers are alike.
That's not the situation for local and, especial-
ly, college newspapers. These publications have
closed, captive audiences in which a print paper
is still an effective medium. Why? Because it is
still a convenient way to spread information.
Take, for example, The Michigan Daily. The
Daily's greatest strength is that it offers news
about the University of Michigan that no one
else can offer. Because it exists in print for free,
students pick up a copy on their way to class and
leave it on the seatnext to them in lecture, where
another person picks it up, leaves it somewhere
else and continues the chain.
As long as students go to class and are then
bored in class, the print version of the Daily can
be effective. The same thing goes for The Michi-
gan Review, The Michigan Independent and
the Every Three Weekly. The New York Times
doesn't have that same advantage.
That doesn't mean michigandaily.com can'tbe
just as effective, if not more effective, than the
print version of the paper. It can be - but for dif-
ferent reasons. It can offer expanded resources
and different types of content the print Daily
can't, including video and audio content, as well
as resources like an events calendar, entertain-
ment guide, crime map, real estate guide and a
host of other useful tools.
And that's the type of content we've been
adding to the site so students have one central
resource to turn to for information about this
campus. While we build up the site, we also want
to know what you, as readers, want to see. What
do you want from the Daily and its website? How
do you want it presented? How can we serve this
campus better?
Ultimately, that's why we're putting this paper
together. Andnomatter what the formatyou can
be sure of this: The Daily will continue to lead
the campus conversation every day and provide
students with the vital information they need to
get the most from this university.
Gary Graca is the Daily's editor in chief.

Executive pay has been in the
news a lotlately. First, the CEO's
of the Detroit's Big Three auto-
makers hypocriti-
cally flew private
jets into Wash- P
ington to ask for
federal bailout
funds. Then it was
discovered that
many executives
working for fed-
erally bailed-out
banks received PATRICK
huge bonuses in ZABAWA
2008 - the year
their banks almost
failed. So on Febru-
ary 4, President Barack Obama capped
executive salaries at $500,000 for all
firms receiving "extraordinary assis-
tance" from the government. Though
hailed by many as a move in the right
direction, the decision has many nega-
tive far-reaching effects. For starters,
it sets up the precedent that making
scapegoats and limiting their freedoms
is the correct course of action for future
government policy.
Limiting executive pay compensa-
tion was an unnecessary step for the
federal governmentto take in the first
place. The stockholders of these com-
panies are very upset at the pay pack-
ages being given at the expense of their
companies' performance. Many of
them are now insistingthat they have a
vote on executive pay packages. In the
past month, such corporate conglom-
erates as Intel Corp., Hewlett-Packard
Co., and Occidental Petroleum Corp.
have all given shareholders a vote on
their executive pay policies. Besides,
it is the stockholders who know how
their company is running and what
kind of reward its executives should
receive based on their performance.
A limit of $500,000 seems to commu-
nicate to executives that their perfor-
mance doesn't matter - whether the
company fails or flourishes, their pay
will be the same.

And for many executives, $500,000
is an awfully low salary. Author Holly
Peterson, in an article for The New
York Times entitled "You try to live on
500K in this town" says many execu-
tives in Manhattan who earn $2 or
$3 million end up with no money left
at the end of the year. She says that to
many executives, a salary reduction
to $500,000 "means taking their kids
out of private school and selling their
home in a fire sale." And while private
schools may sound like a luxury, many
parents choose to send their children
to them out of care for their children's
education. Obama himself sends his
daughters to a private school where
tuition is upward of $20,000 per child
per year.
At the same time, a salary of
$500,000 restricts executives from
using chauffeurs, whose pays range
between $75,000 and $125,000 per
year. Chauffeurs are essential for cor-
porate executives because running a
company is a 24/7 job and executives
need to be available at all times in case
of company emergencies. Obama is the
same; whether or not the country is
failing, he needs to always be available,
including on the road. The country,
just like any company, needs to have its
chief executive always available. Who's
to say that his ability to have a chauf-
feur - and therefore be available to han-
dle crises on the road - should be taken
away if the country isn't doing well?
Sadly, one of the reasons executives
are getting such harsh treatment is
because they are being used as scape-
goats for the country's current finan-
cial crisis. While they may have had a
part in it, there are other causes such as
private investors and government poli-
cies that have gone unpunished. Now,
new corporate executives hired after.
the crisis will have restrictions placed
on them due to something they had
nothing to do with. But it's easier to
restrict executive pay across the board
than admit that there may have been
other causes of the financial crisis.

What's more is that salary caps
are setting a dangerous precedent for
future economic policy. There will
certainly be an increasing number of
companies receiving government aid
as the $789 billion economic stimu-
lus bill moves through Congress. The
government may soon want the these
companies receiving stimulus funds
to ensure that their executives don't
get "overpaid" by restricting their pay
Caps on executive
padysetdangerous
precedents.
to some arbitrary level. Government
would thenbe restricting the freedoms
of both these executives to earn a wage
worth their work and the companies
to hire better executives at a higher
price.
Worse yet is that government is
targeting a small group of people who
cannot fight back. Corporate execu-
tives are a minority group of people
because there are so few of them.
And as minorities, they have no voice
if they are harassed. Right now, their
lifestyles are being overturned at the
hands of the majority and in the name
of justice.
Making a small group of people a
scapegoat and then punishing them
is not a sign of good leadership but an
omen of bad thingsto come. Should this
precedent be applied on agrander scale
- as any stimulus plan would likely
demand - freedom will become less
and less available to American com-
panies. Let's hope the Obama admin-
istration stops restricting American
citizens' freedoms and starts extend-
ingthem.
- Patrick Zabawa can be reached
at pzabawa@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 12, 2009 - 5A

Study: Money
can help people
quit smoking
General Electric Co. but he said those included too few
people or the financial incentives
paid workers up to were too tiny, some as low as $10.
The $750 was "a good incen-
$750 to quit tive," said Dan Anzalone, a study
participant who quit smoking cold
Dangling enough dollars in front turkey three years ago next month
of smokers who want to quit helps - after a 35-year habit.
many more succeed, an experi- "I was getting rewarded for
ment with hundreds of General something that I should be doing
Electric Co. workers indicates. anyway," said Anzalone, 54.
Among those paid up to $750 to "You'd be surprised at what that
quit and stay off cigarettes, 15 per- little incentive does."
cent were still tobacco-free about AlogisticsspecialistataGE plant
a year later. That may not sound in Schenectady, N.Y., Anzalone
like much, but it's three times the tried quittingwith antidepressants
successrate ofacomparisongroup about seven years ago but couldn't.
that got no such bonuses. He tried quitting on New Year's
GE was so impressed it plans Day most years, but generally only
to offer an incentive program lasted a couple days.
nationwide next year, aiming to So he signed up for Penn's fed-
save some of the company's esti- erally funded study, unaware that
mated $50 million annually in hewouldbe paid. Halfthe878 par-
extra health and other costs for ticipants, at about 85 U.S. GE sites,
smoking employees. were put in the financial rewards
"This kind of reward system group; the other half were just
provides them with direct, posi- encouraged to join quit-smoking
tive feedback in the present," not programs and use the company's
just delayed, intangible health health coverage for doctor visits
benefits, said Dr. Kevin Volpp, the and anti-smoking drugs.
lead researcher of the study. Results of the study, which
Volpp, who oversees the health began in 2005, were reported in
incentives center at the University Thursday's New England Journal
of Pennsylvania, called the study of Medicine.
the largest ever of employer incen- The incentive group got
tives to stop smoking. Several past increasingly higher payments the
studies failed to find higher quit longer they stayed off tobacco, up
rates linked to financial bonuses, to a total of $750 after 12 months.
losing, that's definitely feasible,"
PUBLICATIONS Bugli said.
From Page lA DailyEditorinChiefGaryGraca
said that improving the website,
To prevent further withdrawals of which includes a complete rede-
these funds, the board is crafting sign, is a top priority for the paper.
a series of cuts it hopes will total The Daily is also planning on add-
$64,302.97. While this number ing entertainment and restaurant
will be a substantial relief for the guides, as well as a listing of avail-
budget, it is not a guaranteed fix. able student housing and a crime
Chip Peterson, board co-chair, map, Graca said. As the website
said the board hopes to avoid tap- develops into a resource for more
ping the endowment again, but than just news, he said web traffic
that might not be possible. should increase, and with it, the
"Our goal is to not have to do costs paid by advertisers.
that," Peterson said. "However, Graca said that while the situ-
with where the numbers are com- ation isn't easy, it forces the staff
ing in right now, it's looking like to operate more efficiently and
we might have to." allows the current staff to leave
While the newspaper industry their mark on the paper.
has consistently suffered across "It'sagoodopportunitytolookat
the board, the situation for Stu- whatyou're doingand look atwhere
dent Publications has escalated you want to go in the next10 years,"
over the course of the past year. A Graca said, "to look at the future of
struggling economy, lackluster ad our publication in the national con-
sales and high building and main- text of how other newspapers are
tenance expenses have all put sig- changing and in the context of bad
nificant strain on the budget. economic times."
When the financial circum- In addition to efforts to increase
stances of Student Publications revenue through the website,
were beginning to cause concern Student Publications is making
about a year ago, then-Daily Edi- cuts where possible. The Daily is
tor in Chief Andrew Grossman eliminating some phone lines and
presented a proposal to the Board office supplies, and the editorial
about a year ago to save money staff is expected to take a 10 per-
through a website overhaul. The cent pay cut. The Gargoyle and the
Daily dropped its former web Michiganensian are both look-
host, College Publisher, in part ing at how they can cut down on
because the company took a cut printing costs. Most notably, the
of the Daily's online ad revenue. board decided to make a reduc-
The board then decided to invest tion in force of one professional

$100,000 to switch web hosts in staff position.
order to generate more revenue Peterson said the board is con-
for the Daily, which in turn would fident that Student Publications
benefit Student Publications as a will be able to continue to main-
whole. Since then, officials at the tain the Daily, the Gargoyle and
Daily say that online ad revenue the Michiganensian through the
has increased over 200 percent. cuts and increased focus on online
Online advertisements cost less and other revenue development.
than print ads, though, and can- Peterson said that in contrast
not entirely make up for the empty to many publications, the Daily
spots in the print edition of the benefits from a consistent read-
newspaper. According to Elaina ership and the ability to address
Bugli, the Daily's business man- that target audience in a way that
ager, the fall semester was slow no one else can.
and January was one of the worst "It's very likely that the Daily,
months for advertisements in being what it is and the role that
years. But Bugli said ad rates are up it serves to the students and to
substantially for February, and the advertisers, can be insulated from
business staff has already reached the overall market that's on a fair-
75 percent of their monthly goal ly sizable decline overall," Peter-
for advertising, as of last Friday. son said.
Bugli also said that while it may
be years before online ads become - Because of his central role
as financially viable as print ads, in the decision-making reported
they can compensate for the gaps. in this article, Editor in Chief
"We can make up what we're Gary Graca did not edit it.
Congrats!
January 18th-March 28th
U-M placed 6th in overall TIP: Print double-sided
to reduce paper waste!
total tonnage of recyclables!
But 61st overall for the recycling percentage!
$O COME ON, MICHIGAN!
INCREA$E YOUR RECYCLING!
University of Michigan Waste Management Services
www.recycle.umich.edu

New treatment could solve lung
troubles for cystic fibrosis patients

Nanoemulsion that
was developed at 'U'
kills bacteria that
cause lung problems
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Thanks to anew treatment devel-
oped at the University, the 30,000
adults and children in the United
States suffering from cystic fibro-
sis may soon have a way to curb the
fatal lung infections that are often
associated with the disease.
John LiPuma, professor of pedi-
atrics and communicable diseases
at the Medical School, and James
Baker, director of the Michigan
Nanotechnology Institute for
Medicine and Biological Sciences,
headed the group of scientists that
discovered a new technique to kill
resistant bacteria that colonize the
lungs of people with cystic fibrosis.
"For unknown reasons, (the
lungs of those with cystic fibrosis)
get colonized with bacteria spe-
cies that are very difficult to treat,"
ART ABROAD
From Page 1A
versity student will swap places
with an international student from
a foreign institution, bringing that
student to the University. Schmidt
said the exchange program will
benefit both University students
going abroad and the School of Art
& Design.
"It will also enrich the environ-
ment here by their very presence,"
Schmidt said. "It works both ways."
Schmidt added that both
the University student and the
exchange student will be able to
keep their financial aid awards in
most cases.
Trumpey said that along with
the study abroad requirement there
will also be an increase in available
financial aid so that it is possible
for every student to participate in
an affordable international expe-
rience. This increase in financial
aid will come from alumni donors,
Trumpey said.
"Dean Rogers has stated that
this is kind of our No. 1 fundrais-
ing goal - trying to come up with
appropriate funding so that all of
our students can come up with an
experience without having a finan-
cial reason for not being able to par-
ticipate," Trumpey said.
Art & Design freshman Samara
Harte said thatwhile she thinks the
requirement will benefit students
by giving them the chance to inter-
act with art in another cultural set-
ting, it may also be restrictive for
students who don't want to study
abroad during college.
"I think that it's a good idea
because it introduces other cultures
and how it pertains to art, so I think
it's good for students to be required
to experience that," Harte said.
"But on the other hand, I feel like
it's kind of harsh to force someone
to go. What if they wanted to travel

said Paul Makidon, a lab specialist
who participated in the research
as a Ph.D. student. "Once they get
infected, these patients will develop
second pathologies in their lungs,
and these organisms are often pan-
resistant to antibiotics."
The researchers discovered a
way to use a nanoemulsion - a solu-
tion of two high-energy liquids that
do not mix, like oil and water - to
treat lung infections.
"It's not entirely clear how this
works to kill bacteria and other
microorganisms, but the belief
is that these very small droplets,
which now pack a lot of energy,
somehow fuse with and disrupt the
membranes that hold microorgan-
isms together," LiPuma said. "It
basically just blows microorgan-
isms up."
In the study, researchers tested
nanoemulsion on 150 bacterial
strains that harm those with cystic
fibrosis. The results proved suc-
cessful, as the treatment killed all
of the strains, including one-third
of those resistant to multiple anti-
biotics.
Baker said the drug they devel-
oped is unlike any other antibi-

otic because it physically interacts
with the bacteria to disrupt its
membrane. This kills the bacteria,
eliminating the problem of bacteria
resistance.
LiPuma said the leading cause of
death in people with cystic fibrosis
is lung failure.
"Ninety-five percent of people
with CF die from respiratory fail-
ure, and that respiratory failure
results from chronic and recur-
rent lung infections that eventually
destroy their lungs," he said.
The majority of lung infections
cannot be treated with antibiotics
currently on the market because
bacteria in the lungs have become
highly resistant to standard antibi-
otics.
"There's a need for novel anti-
biotics," LiPuma said. "This nano-
emulsion, at least in the test tube, is
very effective against the types of
bacteria people with CF get."
The goal of the research, LiPuma
said, is to make the nanoemulsion
into an antibiotic that can be used
in an inhaler.
Baker said nanoemulsion has
been used in clinical trials for treat-
ing skin infections like cold sores,

but it has never been used to treat
lung infections.
Makidon helped evaluate the
safety of using nanoemulsion inside
organisms. His work included mea-
suring the effects of nanoemulsion
in test tubes and looking at how it
could affect a living organism like
an animal or person.
"I was involved in looking at how
effective nanoemulsion is at killing
the pan-resistant bacteria organ-
isms and optimizing the platform
itself while at the same time trying
not to compromise the safety char-
acteristics of the material," Maki-
don said.
He said the new treatment
"potentially could have an extraor-
dinary impact on the well-being of
patients with cystic fibrosis."
The researchers have been devel-
oping the antibiotic over the past
two years, and hope to make it pub-
licly available within the next two
to five years.
"Drug discovery takes a very,
very long time and there are many
hurdles to overcome and lots of
obstacles in terms of getting a new
drug from the bench, as we say, into
patients," LiPuma said.

cHANEL VON HABSBURG-LOTH RINGEN/Daly
A student walks through the School of Art & Design yesterday. Starting in thefall of 2010, administrators will make study abroad
a requirement for all incoming students.

later on in life? I just think it puts a
big strain on the student."
Art & Design freshman Jenny
Forrest, who is planning to study
abroad in Italy during her time as a
student, said the requirement will
provide the opportunity for every-
one to get involved in an interna-
tional experience.
"They want you to experience
art in a different country, and
by going abroad it will be a bet-
ter experience than just stay-
ing another semester in the Art
School," she said.

Forrest, who is studying graphic
design and computer art, also said
that going abroad will give students
important skills to help them in the
job market.
"By learning it in a different
country you get more experience
and more education under your
belt, so when you come back here
you're more prepared because you
have that experience, especially if
you're looking into an international

job," she said.
Trumpey said the experience
will help students succeed in an
increasingly interconnected world.
"We live in a globalized world,"
Trumpey said. "Students will
learn a lot about home by getting
away from home. Gaining new
perspectives are really an impor-
tant part of the college experience
and this is really a meaningful
way to do it."


Detroit Opera House . Feb. 17-22
Tinkets at Fisher Theatre box office & all
ticketmaster outlets inc. Many's, ticketmaster.com .
8.0G-982-2787 -eBroadwayInDetroit.cox
siteforrent.com
L c o Groups (12 or more): 313-871-1132
R CH GHER -BROADWAY w"DETROIT Sponsored by your Metro Detroit Lincuon Dealers.


4

6A- Thursday, February 12, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

PARKING SPACE AT corer of Divi-
sion/Huron. Csy access, paved lot -
plowed/salted. $135/mo. 994-8120.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-65-825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL mmd. on
central campus 734741-930111
!AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious ufurnised two bedroom.
Close to C/M campus. AC, dis-
tsashter laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOMVE!!! 2 bdrmt bi-level w/
1.5 buls. funittre & balcony. PREEL
1113 directrmwt DEservice & inter-
tet uncluded w/ eact apt. game rot,
ftess ount and tattch more. 741-9300
ssw.ntarborapartments.net
!AVAIL. ALL'09 4 bdrtahose.
ear B-scttot ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2919!!
I Bdrmms. as low as $75 and 2 Bdrms.
as lows $1200
Ntt Maty Left! Act Now before
Sprittg Break and get tese ne rates.
Ittcreible lttcation! 1 & 2 bedroom
aps. (cult live 2 or 4 people) 715
Chusrht St. & 721 Clurb St. -Across
frta ast Quad!!
Beautiftl, spacious. quiet. Furnised/
ufirnised avail. Luttdry,
ree parkimg, free eat and ater, no
pets, no smkitg.
CALLI C & I Matagement, LLC-ask
fotr Bobbie: 734.20.1245.
'!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrtms fully funrtised lots of closet
sptcc. garage pkg. I1113 Directv witb
D3VR ll included. (734)741-9300
mu .atttarbraprttetts. net
!EFFICIENCY!!
Spaciouts retaodeled apt. witb refit-
ishted tardwod floor, new kithen atd
but. Available Fll. 734-944-2405.
!!NEW FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE!!
Newly built. 4-bdrmn/3 bath.Ilse. Clr.
/c, dwshr..]dry., deck. garage, ree
prkg. Close to ttedicl sol! 1310
Jones 734-995-8695 $1000m.
!2 BDRMS -Great capus locations!
1011 S. Forest, 520 & 917 Packard,
848 Tappn. 515 & 521 Watttt. Alt
furiised, ilude eat, wae, and park-
lng. smte sitb free wireless!
wwm.vrsityatagettett.cota
(734) 68-1100.
3 BEDROOM Apts!
1340feddes & 331 Ctherine:
Ftly ftrnised parking. large bed-
rooms great to sare.
u ow.varsitytaunugement.cumn
(734) 60-1100.
I S
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

coupon for every new tur!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Ff80 Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!ll
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Aue.
Ann Arbor, Ml140104
'MAY- May 2 bedroom!
331 Piackard: Sunny apt. on thse top
foour of a converted htottse, large eat-in
kitchtets w/ disbmashter, latudry and
parking on site.
www.varsitymanagement.cum
(734) 660-1100.
**nFOR SEPT. 29119 Leasennn
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil. 1-3 bdrtm.
apt avail. uww.jtasprup.cottt709-7025.
nuAVAIL. PALL '99. 3 bdrmn souse.
near Yost (St 500/ttt.). 734.223.7777.
I & 2 Bdrmn.Turni. apts. 402 11ill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry.. A/C.
teat, free prkg. Call 734-904-0735.
1 BDRM APT. avail. fur sublet, Free
beat, water, parkittg. 535 Packard.
734-973-7225.
2 BDRM AVAIL Full 09. Heat and isa-
tee inet. Prkg. avail. Ctoin Idry access.
Located on N. State, Cathterine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.cm
3 BDRM. APTS. Last C. $1625/tao.
Pimen. hed/water inci. On site prkg. Pall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
496 EAST JEFFERSON
Pall Lease, 7 tBdrin., 2 Ba~th., 2 Kitchten
734-603-8989. kOldtowttreulty.net
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdris.
bouse. $050 per taontb. 734-665-8825.
MAY LEASES STUD)IO-3 bdrmns
avail on cetttral or norths campus.
741-9300 www.annarburapartments.ttet
VII
Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, mater, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Housnes Available
Now Leaning Fall 2009
Call Today for oar Specials
734-6602-4446
lnfo@issaproperties.com

2 BD)RM., UPPER hsaif ofmiuse isithm
frcc wasber/dryer, separate centranlce.
A/C, lots of closet spauce, extra storage
in basetment. smssll backyard. off street
patrking, cltose to camptis anrd bus lie-s.
bSte pets alltowed. 775/mu + utilities.
Available early Murcht, Cult Mike 734-
046-5771.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 biltcks
frosm campus. 06tBdrm1.-$2,800. Avatil.
Sept 1, 21109. 3 Parkiug spaces int-
citided. U niqume, cosnvenientt. C.all
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
2 BED)ROOMS STARTING at $1250
ITis includes your teat, water. fmini-
lure, and FREE Internet!.
$21)9 signing bonus ott ALL 2 Bedrooum
Dont alas 11Ou1tte Best Central
Catapus tDeals!
(let $5011 ottill May leases
Tis special will tot last lon1g, alien
they're pgsne.Iteyre gonte!
Call thte Best at 734-701-26001
tuttuverS il ooer-S-m11i.c0ni
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall -09. 2 prkg
spaces avail, tn-vile ludmy. $2450+
elec. 321 S. tDivisions. Call 734-996-
1991 ttr visit cstpptstanttsgettett.ctttt
4 BED)ROOM HOUSE Available Iball
09. 2 bathls.lhardwmood floyFree laun-
dry uttd parkitng. Near Youst Aretta
$21101cull: 734-717-6913.
491 EAST MAIlSON - NFW PEICE:
(!) ont Brand New (!) aparttments featrir-
intg: 06IBedruomas + Study. 2.5 bulls-
rooms, wsashter and dryer in unit. aitd
off street patrking, corner of Madison
anid Packard. Flour platts available.
$3.450/months. Wilsoni While Matnage-
mceii 734-995-920(1
maww.si lsomwlmitemsngemntcmms
428 HAMILTON PLACE
0 bdrm. Pall ruase, 3 0bath.. 3 kitchtett.
Newly remtotdeled. (31d1IToit Realt
734-663-8989. Oldtowurealty.net
6 BD)RM. FALL 909. 71061F. Kingsley.
3 buit, 3 prkg. spaces. 01Y State Si.
$3410 eg. gums Lstill. 734-996-1991.
IWAn~~

Hutge mumlti-use parkittg urea
Packard ut FGreettwood
May to May $3400 717-2935
0 BEDaROOM, 2 blocks frouit tsiness
Schtool. till Prospect, Sept-Sept,
$2.400/tou., 0 mci. lease May-Sept
$2,000/no. very nice, 614-395-8104.
7 BDRM. FALL 909. 5111 Catherine. 3
kitels., 31 /2 baths. A/C, 4 prkg. spaces.
2 livittg emis. Btwtt. State amidSit.
$3775 neg. plus mmii. 734-996-1991.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '099
Sprinig and al ll 0Bdrta 3 buit busses.
2 & 3 Bdrta Apartments. Visit ottr web-
site at www.ullmandtruperiies.cum fur
saore itmfim or call 734-973-7300.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BED)ROOMS
nn13051t mass 01ut111nte
Best Central Caimptts tDfALS!
Getcm$501of
itt all May leases attd H Style unmits
Tis still mmiiilastIuttg, swhentthleyre
guile. they're gtone!
Cull mtme Best mt 734-701-2080
mmiersiyiumsers-mi.cm
APARTMENTS AVAIL 21199-10.
I"fliciemicies. I & 2 Bedroms!
Furishsed, seat & wsater included.
1RE Lparkiing anal IEthernet!
Call today fur an appominmmaentm mu see!
Pirisme Stmidenti I busing
761-80010 primeeslmeom
*Amsenities varies by locationi
LARGE FURNISHED) 3 Odria. apt. am
1111 S. State. Near IUM bits stop.
Avail. Ntow or Fall 29(19, 1Heat & water
inci. talc.. A/C, prkg.. Idly.,
$1450-517-50. No sitskg. ito pets.
734-990-3539 sir 734-678-7250.
elmisemig u omimasimmet
7 BED)ROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bails., Lits of parking.
IFall ILease. 734-663-8989.
lOldtumwnrelty.met
!0-BedromaFltouse!
331 Cathserinme; 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 0 8 people. Close mu
Dtsoan, !iisgermians & sumaimer
fuarmm market! (734) 668-1100.
wwvamsiymanagemenmm ut
[ IMMEDIATE & F ALL1
-OCUPANCY I

pethe biI11eg
9I Owded an 09
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.ttt-ota arrttettt.ttet
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009 (some with new pries!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Dakland $2295
lots Packard $1355
205 N. Division 1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $295
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
910 Sybil $3095
1021 . University $2250
1307 . State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 K. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughns $395
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apat-
aents available too! Wilson White
Manageisenm 734-995-9200
www.i lsonwhiemanagement.coma
campus(4a wilsumwhtemanagement.coma
994 S. FOREST 0 2. May 09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes fr Fall 09. Large
ouse. But fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577.
AVAIL 9/1/99 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. L.fI drm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallain Reaty
Co. 734-308-025.
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautifuml I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
tours, ay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 29
7 bdrm. 521 Linden. 2 bath, 0 pkg.
spots. wshrdryerdwslr/disposl, cen-
tral eat/AC $3200 inden52t imecuma
5 bdrm. 525 Linden, 2 bath.. 4 prkg.
spots. wsr/dryer, dwslmrdispsa, cen-
tral eat/AC $2800 linden52S Simecom
Contact Jonah Cpi 415 786 8206.
WE HAVE ALL your ousing needs
from studios mu 0 bdri. houses in alt lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan ealty
734-002-5500 or
www.mictscumrealsy.cum for details.
3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1200/Month
1120 S. Forest

,BIG HSEt 5 1g. Odrias. (5-7 persons)
Living. dinimig rias. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study. Free ]dry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
EFFICIENCY ' AND t bdrim. apts.
avail. Pall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Must inet., seam and water and have
prkg. avail. fur $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappuManagernent. coin
FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrin. House
$2400!!! On Central Campus, 3 bath,
Furs., lre dry. prkg, 734-780-0249.
FREE BEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able far 3, prkg + Indry inet. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400..734-260-4003.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime urna-
tiun. Heat/water included. $1249/mn.
734-665-8825. www.campusreaty.com
[TiTT. &EF ATS
I$50-$651
SEPT. 2009
GOIPROPERTIES
746356 J
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 209
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washingonm (Chancing Dld
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1110 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
6tt Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
810 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished. Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, ansd 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable tmu! Wilsoms White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitmuanagetaentcom
camapusoawilsunwhltemanagement.com
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and waler intel. $1799/ mu.
734-605-8825. www.campusreulty.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Odrm.
Incl. fHeat/Water/Parking
www.HEPAA.cm 996-4992,
Aprtentsaiable!

3 PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of.Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm a pts. with balconies or
patios. Walk -in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.

I
E

6
I

I

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, February 12, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Ldited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Onlypil~m o1 its 4s "The Three
1 Sums old RCAn 1 'Pannsy... not" series directed Siteers' sstles
6 Paciliy 2 Guldesncail, eg. by William no Artssuapporter
10 Inspiron makes 3 Great felu? Shatner 52 Singer Lauper
14 Stallion .g. 4 Wisc. neighor 37 Quarmeling 53 Mudline st at.
a5 Gullet Mickeson 5 Squalidl space 38 Tarzaun pluyer 54 Unleash
to a_ etna: e Adhesiue mused Ely 50 SensiClear target
aftershave right before use 40 Ladypof the haus 598"Deal me in'
17 Laot Martin/Lewis 7 Pat us.onu t 41 Modlel passner indicator
fim release 48 Spanish river 00 Collar type
20 "smali & mighty' 8 Recordi hall 47 Cit Pieldi 62 Kameem,onuns
detergent 9 "Lull Woman" predecessor 83 Lake maker
21 Car har gp 40 Nut phony 64 Behs' gp.
22 Salad dlays 10 Oiimua ofIThe
23 Serouassucial Woender Years" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
engagement 11sMagazine for S A LT Y JA VA H OP)1
27 Part ofCBSAbbr horseuowners
28oisterous 12PFllnofuvgor AE IDO U E L IS IMA N
29 Jack Nicklaus's 13 Banking srips F N E N C H K I S S D A N G
almaumater,. 18 Undtulating E ON A M Y A UB 5ERN E
brieflyp 18 Bakery offerings A T 0 L L A A H0 0
31tOneuof18 kings 24lFauore groups T ES A S LO0N G HO RN NS
32 Kind f ic e 20 _-ran gRI O
35 1817 ahdicator 20 Carry-sn item
39 What a Manhatta 28 Joint tsr
landimark's merriment, 0 VII S AG0A P I N E S
unscriptinis slangily C I NN A M ONCAN TENR
mistakenly 30 Literally. 'ttua ARNM 0 0 0 E S
asumedtuhbe plane' M E SS I AH MNRE CA N
42 Halt an arcadle 31 Dld alums ID S MELBAM00RE
tradlemark 32 Radarmar's LIRA IAG POLKA
43 Theater name bogey
44 "What -!: Hum 33iVeto E T TU A P ES TO AS T
annoying" 34 Nut friendly xwordedIitor@aol.com 02/12/SO

Great location: 1328 S. Uninersity
Negotiable Bates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms.
Call Today!

Copi Properties

F

611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED- IN
UNIT!

I

0

Deadlineafor lne adais 11:30am ore bdsinass day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 pe ie/for theafirstasueanad $2.15 par inalfor each
additiornalaseutive soue.nFrequercy and Bulkortracta are available-
cortact orstaff fr daeta,*Studarts may racaiva a 25%udiscount when
ads arapacedinparson wild a valid atudart ID non-organizational, ron-
businos'ads only) .Allada muat baprapadunaaaspriar bilng priviegaa
hava baer aatabiahd de*We accapt Va, Maytarcard, Amercar Expraaa,
Discvar, ca.h or chack " For Claaaifad Dasplay advartirg, peas0ca5 one

Classification:
01 i otFourd
00-For Sal

auriture

45 Watery expanse
47 Border o
48 Kid_
51 Pancaketflour
55 Bellowing
57 Easily
maneuvered, as
a ship
58 Actress_ Damn
Chong
01 1808 centennial
dehut that
uriginally
featared the endis
of117-, 23,39-,
51-Across and
the initials in the
circled squares
(explained in
tomorrow's
puzzle)
6h Advimsd ahout
00 Writer Ferher
07 Invite as sue's
date tsr
08 Act olfleiance
09 Uniener
detergent
7u Lxpert

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
14 15
17 18
20 21
23 24 25
28
31 32 33 34
39 40
42 43
45 48
48 5 5 52 53 54
55 56 57
61 82
65 66
68 69
By Don Gagliardo
(c)2009'I'ribune Media Services, Inc.

I

o orAccontExecutive
1iday 2
2 lines 86
3 lines 1.9 1
4 lines 1.0 2
Policies:
Abbreviations:m ny tndr a iy

rind

2days 3 days 4 days 5 days

095 Chid Ca

.1

1. Misprints:

-We!:ie,
-Masic

Rates

ing nd p

ie yin/i, n da eeteda a: 0 R
/y rcedule Sning date. Refunds: 140-F
n l be iv n le s teihnoa:yet P
Wed o uri hriadvrt imnfr 15 0 - Pa

airein!

#.Nefusal: A

ine

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandailv.com



The Michigan Daily - midhigandaily.com

Thursday, February 12, 2009 - 7A

Outside comment portion of MSA
meetings could get a name change

Obama praises
Lincoln's legacy
at Ford's theatre

From Page 1A
nity speakers in the past that have
taken advantage of our willingness
to allow them to speak."
Raymond said in recent weeks,
the community speakers havebeen
bringing up international issues
that distract from assembly mem-
bers' abilities to carry out their
positions properly.
"We constantly hear that MSA
needs to be more relevant on cam-
pus," he said. "And when we're
talking about issues that are so far
reaching and so complex and for-
getting issues that tangibly affect
campus, I don't know if we're doing
our jobs."
Business Rep. Alex Serwer,
who has been working with Ray-
mond to promote discussion on the
name change, said he is hesitant
to change the policy because of
the inherent connection between
community members and the Uni-
versity.
"Michigan is the Ann Arbor
community; they're pretty much
inseparable," he said. "So, I feel
like there must be issues where
Ann Arbor community members
would be interested in coming to
the students to talk about certain
issues, like street lighting."
Raymond said that although
some community members might
make relevant contributions when
speaking to the assembly, there
have been many speakers recently
who have taken advantage of the
assembly's commitment to free
speech.
"In the past month and a half or
so we've had alot of members of the

Gala held at Ford
Theatre on the eve
of Lincoln's 200th
birthday
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama praised Abra-
ham Lincoln for his conviction that
a divided nation could be made
whole at a gala yesterday night cel-
ebrating the $25 million renovation
of Ford's Theatre.
The president and first lady
Michelle Obama joined a crowd of
Hollywood stars and Washington
heavy-hitters for the celebration
on the eve of Lincoln's 200th birth-
day. The theater where Lincoln
was assassinated is reopening after
an 18-month facelift that included
new, more comfortable seats, a
modern lobby and new dressing
rooms.
Calling the theater "hallowed
space" where Lincoln's legacy
thrives, Obama praised him for
restoring a sense of unity to the
country.
"For despite all that divided us -
North and South, black and white -
he had an unyielding belief that we
were, at heart, one nation, and one
people," Obama said. "And because
of Abraham Lincoln, and all who've
carried on his work in the genera-
tions since, that is what we remain
today."
The Obamas entered the theater

MAX COLLINS/daily
MSA Rep. Robby Saldana speaks to the Michigan Student Assembly about the Gaza conflct last month.

community come in and utilize our
belief in free speech to talk about
things that in many ways affect the
University, but in more ways might
not and they really might be taking
advantage of MSA, even prostitut-
ing it," he said.
LSA Rep. Andrew Chinsky said
that regardless of who is given per-
mission to speak at its meetings,
the assembly can simply focus
more on the tasks affiliated with
the University.

"We can have a more meaning-
ful impact on strtdent issues than
with other issues at large anyway,"
he said. "We have a lot more power
with anything having to do with
the University."
Chinsky added other, more use-
ful forums exist for community
members to voice their concerns.
"I think the student voice is the
most important," he said. "There
are other community issues that
affect us, but there are other out-

lets for that, like Ann Arbor City
Council and the mayor, that could
handle those types of issues."
Student General Council
Michael Benson said that as early
as 2002, speakers were required
to announce their relationship
to MSA before being speaking
at a meeting. Benson said he
interprets this to mean that only
constituents were permitted to
speak during the open session at
meetings.

Large inventories stall oil prices at $36 RED HOT

In last six weeks,

barrel b
pore on t

crude inventories Exchang
overnigh
grew by more than U.S. c
jumssped
30 million barrels uemplo
gasoline.
SINGAPORE (AP) - Oil prices day from
lingered near $36 a barrel today Adminsis
in Asia, following a steep fall over- inventori
night, as surging crude inventories barrels f
in the U.S. stoked investor concern more tha
that consumer demand will con- barrels e
tinue to fall amid a deep recession. veyed by
Light, sweet crude for March mation a
delivery rose 10 cents to $36.04 a Includi
the michigan daily
CENTRAL CAMPUS 3 ad 4 bed- 334 C
room housen for rent. 734-549-7571. Close
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. FALL
Call today 741-9657. NISHEID
near Ge
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts. Stricklan
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665- CCRB,
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com Sorority
doorstep.
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL front po
HOUSES want to sell your student Kitchen
rental house (248) 626-0614. washer a
parking.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3 734662-
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved www.mit
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch. EH4.-
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009 P
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765 Call t
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995 *Fu
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net FREE
bedro
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call wwm
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7525 THESI'
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet organiza
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus 996-
>A

y mid morning in Singa-
the New York Mercantile
e. The contract fell $1.61
t to settle at $35.94.
rrude oil inventories have
in recent weeks as rising
ytnent erodes spending on
A weekly report yester-
ithe Energy Information
tration showed that crude
ies jumped by 4.7 million
for the week ended Feb. 6,
in an increase of 3.4 million
xpected by analysts sur-
Platts, the energy infor-
srm of McGraw-Hill Cos.
ding last week's build up,

crude inventories have swelled by
more than 30 million barrels in the
past six weeks.
"Conditions in the West and
globally remain quite weak," said
Gerard Burg, minerals and energy
economist with National Austra-
lia Bank in Melbourne. "Given the
economic outlook, there's little to
drive prices higher."
Forecasters continue to lower
their expectations for crude
dema nd. The Paris-based Interna-
tional Energy Agencysaid Wednes-
day that global oil demand in 2009
will likely be 84.7 million barrels
per day, 570,000 barrels less than

the previous estimate.
"It's still a market that's really
focused on demand," Burg said. "I
think there's potential for condi-
tions to weaken further."
Investors are also skeptical
that a Treasury Department plan
announced earlier this week to
spend more than $1 trillion to help
remove banks' soured assets from
their books and unclog the credit
markets will work.
"The bank plan lacked specifics,
and the market is quite concerned
that it won'tkick start the economy,"
said Christoffer Moltke-Leth, of
Saxo Capital Markets in Singapore.

7 BEDROOM
atherise, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
AVAILABILITY: FUR-
five bedroom house located
ddes and South University.
ds Market, Central Campus,
University Hospital, and all
and Fraternity Houses at your
Unique attic space and large
rch. Can sleep 6 residents.
highlights include a dish-
nd new fooring! Laundry and
Contact Michigan Realty at
5500 or
chcomrealty.com for details.
NOW LEASING
rime Student Housing
761-1000
www.primesh.com
oday to see your new Home!
Effiiencies:
344 S. Divisin
I Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-1 LEFT
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
illy Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

e O~d
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub sow hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and foorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-5100.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
jwtur own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
W Pto$ per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
U OF M Student Lab Assistant. Age-
ing Research. Mouse husbandry and
data collection. Holiday and weekend
availability needed. 10-15 hr/wk.
Contact Maggie 936-2164.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island Htouse Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff' Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800)626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

ments used to stand, was purchased
by developers in January 2007 for
an undisclosed amount. The ask-
ing price for the property was $5.45
million.
Slade said he would rather not
speculate as to whether Johnston
has similar ambitions.
As for the future of Red Hot Lov-
ers, Slade said he would like to have
a grand reopening somewhere else
on campus next September. He said
he has already been contacted by
an interested State Street property
owner.
RACKHAM
From Page1A
year. Last week's presentation by
Rackham Graduate School Dean
Janet Weiss to the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs
and subsequent coverage of the.
proposal prompted multiple letters
from CEWG members to respond to
Weiss's claims.
In a letter to the editor published
in The Michigan Daily earlier this
week, Shaun McGirr, chair of the
CEWG, said Weiss may not be accu-
rately portraying the consequences
of a continuous enrollment propos-
al.
"A working group of concerned
graduate students has been consid-
ering the further implications that
Rackham may have brushed over in
its publicity materials," he wrote.
McGirr said CEWG has found
several potential problems with
the proposal. He said the proposal
would decrease a student's flexibil-
ity as he or she proceeds through
their program and has the potential
to force students to pay tuition fees
if departments can't or won't fund
them. McGirr said the proposal
would also complicate the ability
to perform cutting-edge external
research, decrease demographic
diversity by pressuring depart-
ments to admit students who can
quickly finish a program and deter
the best students from the Univer-
sity to schools with less restrictive
policies.
Rackham student Kiara Vigil,
president of the Graduate Employ-
ees' Organization, said in an e-mail
statement that concerns about the
policy aren't limited to graduate
students.
"I have also communicated with
concerned faculty members from
departments across the University,
and they too have expressed con-
cerns regarding the lack of specific
processes related to the implemen-
tation of this policy," she wrote.
In thee-mailVigil outlinedthree
main concerns GEO has with the
continuous enrollment proposal.
Vigil said the GEO Stewards
Council - the executive governing
body of the union - would like to
see plans in place for how schools
will cope with any potential finan-
cial losses.
In an interview yesterday, Weiss
said schools would be required to

to the tune of "Hail to the Chief"
and the enthusiastic clapping of
audience members who stood and
turned to watch the first couple
make their way down the aisle.
Violinist Joshua Bell opened the
show, playing a traditional spiritual
on a violin that was last played at
Ford's Theatre the night Lincoln
was shot in 1865. The gala also
included scenes from a play about
Lincoln's life, along with other spo-
ken tributes and musical perfor-
mances.
Before the event, guests rang-
ing from Cabinet members to
movie producers strode down a
red carpet in sharply cut tuxedos
and colorful gowns. Talk included
prime-time television plotlines
and opinions of the economic
stimulus package being ham-
mered out in Congress.
Many were inspired by Obama.
"I still get a tear in my eye every
time I see him on television," said
Kelsey Grammer, though ie added
that he didn't always agree with
Obama's politics. Grammer later
took the stage to speak of Lincoln's
love of Shakespeare.
Sidney Poitier and "Star Wars"
director George Lucas were both
honored with the Lincoln Medal.
Poitier, who broke down racial
barriers with movies like "A Rai-
sin in the Sun" and "Guess Who's
Coming to Dinner," called Obama
a man of "simple origins" inspired
by Lincoln.
Slade said that when the restau-
rant moves he doesn't want it to lose
"chat rustic, old school vibe."
"I own everything in that
shop," he said. "I will go in there,
and I will strip the walls of every-
thing."
A2003Universitygraduate,Slade
bought Red Hot Lovers because it
was his favorite restaurant on cam-
pus when he was a student.
Slade said he has big plans for
the business, including opening
a second Ann Arbor location and
then bringing it to other Big Ten
campuses.
"My vision is expansion," he said.
"This is just one little bump in the
road. We'll figure it out."
formulate plans in order for the
continuous enrollment require-
menttoube put in place.
"The graduate school is plan-
ning to contribute money to make
sure that all schools will be able to
cover their obligations, and in other
cases schools are using gift monies
or other funds to help cover the dif-
ference between what they will be
expected to pay after the policy is
implemented and what they're pay-
ing now," she said.
Among the three outlined con-
cerns, Vigil said other factors
affecting degree completion, which
Weisshassaidwill increasebecause
of continuous enrollment, need to
be considered in tandem with this
proposal. Increasing financial aid,
decreasing cohort size and improv
ing faculty mentoring, along with
other measures, should be imple
mented alongside the continuous
enrollment proposal, Vigil said.
Weiss said efforts are underway
to address several of these con-
cerns, including a mentoring ini-
tiative and a dissertation-writing
institute.
"We agree that there are many
other factors that can help to pro-
mote completion, and we are work-

ing on many of them," Weiss said.
Vigil said financial consider-
ations for students should to be
taken into consideration in the
proposal as well, because the pol-
icy could result in students paying
more for their education through
tuition and fees.
Weiss admitted that a student
might end up paying more, but said
this would only affect a very small
number of students.
"For most people, we do not
anticipate that it will result in a
total increase in cost across their
graduate career," she said.
Weiss said only students who
bear the entire burden of paying for
their educations might end up pay-
ing more.
"This only applies to those stu-
dents who are paying every nickel
themselves, from start to finish,
and there are almost none of those
people," she said. "Maybe one per-
son or two people who would fall
into this category (each year)."
The proposal is scheduled to
be fully implemented in fall 2010.
When it's implemented, all Ph.D.
candidates - not just new candi-
dates - will be required to comply
with the policy.

T'
SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
oms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
w.annarborapartments.net

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display andl ne
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-based salary
...andhavingoFUNoat the same time
Please e-mail dailyclassifieddgmail.com,
call( 73i 76- 0557, r stop at
4.0 ay aprad no apply
Deadline is March Z, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
nude, semi-nude photography. No expe-
rience, Flexible hours, great pay. Must
be 18. For interview call 734-678-4181.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaid ioThink.com

IS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
tion, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
0566 or writeon@iserv.net


a

8A - Thursday, February 12, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Freshmen duo With'M'off target, Sims
gives Blue jolt serves as lone bright spot

4

play
and
any

ith increased on Nov. 15 at Kentucky on 4-of-4
3-point shooting. But recently,
ing time, Boylan she hasn't exploded like she did
in her first game.
I Reynolds have "We've gone to our bench in
swered the call a hurry with those three kids,"
Borseth said. "They give us a dif-
ferent look. They give us the scor-
By TIM ROHAN ing threat. Boylan and Reynolds
Daily Sports Writer automatically can score."
Borseth said Wednesday that

Senior forward Carly Benson
tapped teammate Carmen Reyn-
olds's thigh when asked about
Reynolds's performance during
the press conference after Michi-
gan's loss to Penn State Monday.
It was an excited, happy motion,
a "you take this one" sort of
action.
Reynolds, a freshman forward,
might not have had to face the
pressure of answering the on
the spot questions before that.
But she certainly knows how to
handle game pressure, which has
led to her increased playing time
recently.
In the last four games, Reyn-
olds has played an average of 23
minutes per game, up from an
average of 10.5 minutes in her
first four collegiate games.
Michigan coach Kevin Borseth
initially played just one post play-
er off the bench. That's when the
hardworking freshman stepped
in.
The Wolverines (3-10 Big Ten,
10-14 overall) boast four seniors
in their starting lineup, but a
youthful injection usually comes
midway through the first half
of each game. Reynolds, fresh-
man guard Courtney Boylan
and junior center Krista Phillips
have been the first players off the
bench.
The future of Michigan wom-
en's basketball has been personi-
fied by Reynolds and Boylan this
Reynolds played with a nota-
ble maturity Monday, scoripg a
career-high 20 points on 4-of-7
shooting from 3-point range. She
filled the stat sheet by snagging
four rebounds and blocking two
shots in 28 minutes.
Boylan believes Reynolds's
ability to score in the post opened
up the perimeter game as taller
defenders were forced to guard
her.
Borseth knows Reynolds has
the ability, but the future will tell
if she can consistently play at this
high of a level.
"She's good in traffic," Borseth
said. "She can shoot well. She
passes well. She sees the floor.
She's got really good hands, so
if you throw it in there and you
collapse on her real fast she's
just able to make some real quick
decisions that most players aren't
able to make."
Boylan has been no slouch,
either. She scored a career-high
18 points in her first college game

before the season started he
didn't even know which players
he was going to play, let alone
what the pair of freshmen could
do.
"At the beginning of the sea-
son, Coach was like, 'We need
more production off our bench.
We need you guys to come out
there and make a contribution,' "
Boylan said.
"And I think that's happening
now."
Boylan and Reynolds each
believe they have learned the
most through in-game experi-
ence and that has translated into
success.
The three came off the bench
early to spark a comeback at
Northwestern and to provide
scoring punch against Penn
State, but the Wolverines lost
both games. Reynolds and Phil-
lips combined for 30 of the team's
56 points against the Nittany
Lions.
Borseth thinks Reynolds's play
will continue to improve, and
her presence is valuable for this
team.
"As a freshman, (Reynolds)
is going to learn as she goes,"
Borseth said. "She may shine
from now on in the rest of the
year, but she may just complete-
ly flop. ... But before this whole
thing shakes out, she's going to
be a very good player.
"Sooner or later, you are going
to throw everything at this kid
including the kitchen sink, and
she is going to know where it's
coming from, wihen it's coming,
and how to deal with it when it
gets there."
The Wolverines have lost eight
of their last 10 games, but the two
freshmen have been one of Mich-
igan's most refreshing surprises.
The team hasn't been consistent
all year, but Borseth knows he
can rely on his duo of super-subs
to make something happen when
they get on the court.
Reynolds's ability to go inside
and out and Boylan's scoring
swagger would make any coach
happy.
"You really need to have kids
coming back every year that can
refuel the system," Borseth said.
"The more experience they have,
the better it's going to be."
Even though the sun seems
to be setting on the Wolverines'
season and their tournament
chances, their future is undoubt-
edly bright.

Wolverines shot just
4-of-24 from 3-point
range against MSU
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily SportsEditor
During warmups before Tues-
day's home loss to Michigan State,
junior forward DeShawn Sims took
a short break from layups.
He walked over to the Spartans'
bench and embraced Michigan
State coach Tom Izzo.
The two smiled and high-fived
like old friends, and they had every
reason to be amicable.
While at Detroit Pershing High
School, Sims was one of the nation's
top players and heavily recruited -
especially by Izzo and then-Michi-
gan coach Tommy Amaker.
Izzo saw Sims's agiliiy in the
post, an attribute that would have
fit well in the Spartans' post-ori-
ented system. Sims decided to head
to Ann Arbor, and Izzo signed for-
ward Raymar Morgan.
"I see it as, if I get one guard,
(Amaker) is getting the other,"Izzo
told the Lansing State Journal in
February 2005, when Sims was an
uncommitted high school junior.
"That's just the way it kind of works
nowadays. ... They're gonna always
recruit well, and we're gonna
recruit well. I do think this (rival-
ry) is still growing and is gonna get
better and better and better."
In Tuesday's 54-42 loss, the
Spartans earned their eighth vic-
tory in the last 10 meetings in the
rivalry.
But if anyone was going to put a
stop to Michigan State's domina-
tion, it was Sims.
The Spartans' defense suffocated

Michigan's 3-point opportunities.
Five times in the first half, the Wol-
verines forced desperation shots as
the shot clock neared zero.
After the break, Michigan took a
different approach.
The Wolverines had just three
assists in the entire first half.
Freshman guard Zack Novak
picked up three in 82 seconds, all of
which went inside to Sims on con-
secutive possessions and brought
Michigan within eight points.
"It was trust in the offense,"
Novak said of the second half. "I
think in the first half, we got away
from things too much and botched
some of plays up, and we can't do
that. We have to have more poise
and I think that we had that in the
second half."
Sims finished with a game-
high 18 points. Against 6-foot-10
Spartan center Goran Suton, Sims
showcased the agility that's always
gotten him attention.
"Find somebody," Michigan
coach John Beilein said of the
absence of scoring options besides
Sims. "It's tough right now. (Fresh-
man) Stu (Douglass) got in foul
trouble, our other guys are in a
shootingslump. We went to (sopho-
more) Manny (Harris) alot, and we
went to DeShawn, and DeShawn
played well."
Izzo said he wanted to hold the
Wolverines, who average more
than 26 3-point attempts per game,
to eight or nine made shots.
Izzo's technique worked and the
Wolverines tied a season-low per-
centage from behind the arc, con-
necting on just 4-of-24.
Even with the extra defensive
pressure, Novak said Michigan
could have gotten more shots by
having a quick release and using
ball fakes. But the Wolverines never

a

4

SA D ALSALAH/Daily
Junior DeShawn Sims scored a game-high 18 points against the Spartans on Tuesday.
found that rhythm from the outside shot an impressive combined 19-of-
and instead relied heavily on Sims. 38 from behind the are.
When the Spartans lost at home "When you don't get a lot of shots
to Penn State and Northwestern - and you're a 3-point shooter, then
their only conference losses of the you can never get in the groove,"
season - 3-pointers were the cul- Izzo said after his team's win. "I
prit. thought that was the biggest differ-
The Nittany Lions and Wildcats ence in the game."

Pateryn adjusts to speed, agility of college game
Defenseman nmay
have to fight to keep
ice time once
Mitera returns
By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer '


When injuries to senior cap-
tain Mark Mitera and junior Steve
Kampfer decimated the No. 4
Michigan hockey team's defense
during the season's opening week-
end, the squad's deepest unit
quickly became its weakest link.
With the Wolverines already miss-
ing freshman defenseman Brandon
Burlon because of an ankle sprain,
it seemed like an appropriate time
for the time to panic.
Fourmonths latertherehasbeen
one silver lining to those nightmar-
ish two nights: the development of
Greg Pateryn.
The freshman blueliner was
forced early into a lineup that was
suddenly without two of its best
defensemen and has played in 26
of Michigan's past 28 games.
The Sterling Heights native
acknowledged having trouble
adjusting to the speed of the col-
legiate game, and during the first
semester, Pateryn rarely exploit-
ed his greatest advantage over
fleet-footed opposing forwards
- his size.
Even at 6-foot-2 and 220
pounds, Pateryn didn't check as
hard or as often as can normally
be expected with such an impos-
- UART
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY S
residency at thei
FRAI
May 18 - Jur
Four Weeks/I
Sat es the LSA Creative
INFORMATIO
Tuesday, Febr ry 17, 5:00pm,Art
Wednesy, Feb 18, 7:00pm,I
Making crew ivity an integral pa
Learn more now: www.a
This course is supported by the University of Michigan'

r, ,
,!
.

'
, :, -
,.
,r


uo

6
6
6

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Freshman Greg Pateryn logged more ice time than initially expected after injuries to defensernen Mark Mitera and Steve Kampfer.
ing frame. adjustment period seems long since was only slappers.
"I think it can happen with a past. As he acclimated himself to "Now, he's looking at situations
lot of freshmen, (with) really a lot the speed, his mistakes became and even down in Joe Louis Arena
of information being thrown at fewer. And as his confidence rose, (against Michigan State), you can
them," assistant coach Billy Pow- so did the number of hits. see he was making passes, and he's
ers said. "A little bit of a change "You could put him on the ice for not just burying his head and tak-
in speed, (and) all of a sudden, the 14 minutes and he could be a plus ing slapshots."
rushes are coming at you quicker. player," Powers said of Pateryn, Though Paterynwon't win many
The counters are coming at you. who has a plus-4 plus-minus rat- sprints in practice, his instincts
quicker, so you end up getting into ing. "It just lessened the load of not and anticipation have masked his
more of containing and thinking having Mark (Mitera). He couldn't relative lack of agility.
the game a little bit more. play Mark's minutes or Mark's role. "I think it's a little bit of hav-
"I think that's what you saw Nobody could've. But it was good ing hockey sense, but also putting
with Greg." that Greg was a little bit over-ready your priorities first," Pateryn said.
Now, with six games left in the for this." "Make sure no one gets behind you
regular season, Pateryn's extended Powers noted Pateryn's offsea- or beats you wide. That's all posi-
son training last summer as a tioning, just kind of where to be at
major contributor to his devel- the right time and not get yourself
CJ 250 -opment. A Montreal Canadiens in situations where you need to
draft pick, Pateryn attended Mon- really bury yourself ina hole just to
treal's rookie camp to improve his stay on the ice."
agility, his most glaring weakness For all the strides he has made
TUDIO-LECTURE COURSE coming out of the United States this season, Pateryn's hold on the
Hockey League. sixth defenseman spot is still tenu-
Abbey of Pontlevoy, "I had a personal trainer over ous. Since Kampfer returned at
the summer," Pateryn said. "We the Great Lakes Invitational Dec.
C E worked on lateral quickness and 27, Pateryn has played in favor of
just quick sprints, skating on the sophomore Scooter Vaughan in 10
ne 12, 2009 ice with power skaters. When I of Michigan's past 12 games. But
Four Credits was in Montreal, they actually Powers said the coaching staff
videotaped my skating and cri- wants Vaughan to play before the
Expression Requirement tiques what I needed to work on." end of the regular season - possibly
N SESSIONS: Powers said Pateryn's heavy- this weekend.
footed skating was the coaching Additionally, Mitera .hopes to
& Architecture Bldg. Room staff's chief concern during his return from a torn anterior cruci-
Michigan Union Pond Room recruitment. The two spoke last ate ligament within the next three
year about how critical the offsea- weeks, meaning there's a chance
rt of students' lives and work. son would be for his development Pateryn's season will end with him
trtsonearth.org/studentu on both ends of the ice. on the bench.
"I see a lot of myself in him last "ThereasonIsaywehaven'treal-
year, struggling with the speed," ly spoken about (who Mitera would
sophomore defenseman Tristin replace) is because it should make
ON EARTq Llewellyn said. "When we first got our whole defense better," Powers
him, I don't think he knew how to said. "Because they all know once
sMultidismipioary Learning and TemTeahing snitiative take a wrist shot or a backhand, it he gets back, no one's safe."-


0I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ports

Thursday, February 12, 2009 - 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, February 12, 2009 - 9A

WOMENS TR

LD

- Wade's renewed faith
fuels her track success

Ultimate Frisbee club team
hopes to travel to Nationals

Sprinter's interest in
nondenominational
church helps her put
sports in perspective
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
A yellow wristband on her left
wrist reads "confident," and a navy
blue band on her right wrist reads
"heart."
Michigan women's track and
field captain Bettie Wade wears
the "heart" band because she gives
it her all every time she competes,
her whole heart is in the sport. And
she stresses the need to be confi-
dent in order to perform her best,
a lesson she has learned after years
of competition.
For the senior, confidence and
heart are just two of the key ingre-
dients necessary to always compete
ather best.
But those she can find in herself.
It took a few falls before she looked
to God, but she hasn't looked back
since.
As a high school senior, she was
the one of the top high jumpers in

the stat
qualify f
she had
was dev
Shec
states in
she had
tier. Anc
the Nike
the even
m4
str
"It k
'Wow, I
my life,'
myself u
what, G
never it
you som
or asked
It wa
ated the
life.

e of Michigan but didn't Growing up in a Baptist family,
or the state championships Wade went to church as a child,
been slated to win. Wade but the eiperience didn't resonate
astated. with her.
did, however, qualify for It was not until she and twin
the long jump, an event brother Marcellus visited their
learned just a month ear- sister Patrice, who was studying
d later that year, she won college ministry at Grand Valley
e outdoor championship in State while Wade was still in high
t. school, that they decided to give
church another try.
"In high school, we always grew
up in the church but we didn'thave
(Track) has a relationship with Christ," Wade
said. "But when my sister went to
ade my faith college and got involved and we
went up to visit her, we were like,
onger,"W ade 'Oh, church can be kind of cool."'
sad Fade withdrew fom the Baptist
said. church and joined a nondenomina-
tional one in college.
Four years later, she wears a
cross around her neck and relies on
ind of made me be like her faith in God more than ever.
can't control everything in "(Track) has made my faith
" Wade sasid. "So I picked stronger,"Wade said. "With my ups
p and was like, 'You know and downs and trials and struggles,
od has a plan for me.' I it has helped me to lean on God
magined God would give more. I'm just on fire for God right
ething you never imagined now, where before it was just likeI
for." was lukewarm.
s then that Wade re-evalu- "But now I am hot just because
role faith could play in her all he has blessed me with in track
and field and just in life."

After finishing
undefeated in fall,
'Flywheel' beats cold
by practicing indoors
By JACK FERNBACHER
Daily Sports Writer
In the bitter cold of winter, fris-
bees have disappeared from the
Diag, but they are still flying around
Ann Arbor. The women's Ultimate
Frisbee club team, Flywheel, prac-
tices during the entire academic
year.
The Wolverines started strong
this year with a 16-0 record in the
fall and won the Michigan Indoor
Tournament in January.
The players practice indoors dur-
ing the cold months in The Sports
Coliseum and at Oosterbaan Field-
house to work on conditioning and
improve their game. And it's that
year-round dedication that led Fly-
wheeltoafifth-placefinishatNation-
als in Boulder, Colo., last year.
"We definitely deserved to make
it to Nationals last year," senior cap-
tain Nell Turley said. "We worked
really hard and earned our spot.
The team came together and played

really well at the end."
Martha Carlson, who has coached
Flywheel for nine years, is a doc-
toral student at the University and
traveled to Nationals in 2003, 2006,
and 2008.
"I came to Michigan for gradu-
ate school," Carlson said. "Flywheel
was looking for a new coach, and
since I had experience playing in
college, they asked if I would help
coach and now I am still here nine
years later."
There is a club A and a club B
team, with three volunteer coaches
heading the A team and two with
the B team. Keely Dinse and Janet
Jin also coach Flywheel.
"We have a lot of enthusiastic
coaches this year, which makes a
huge difference," senior captain
Emily Baecher said. "The team is
much more dedicated this year
because of the time put in by the
coaches. They put in more time then
they ever should."
Ultimate Frisbee is becoming
more popular around the country,.
and Michigan is no exception. Fly-
wheel has a combined 32 players on
the A and B teams this year.
"There are only some people that
have done it before they come to col-
lege," Turley said. "Ultimate Frisbee

is great because it is something that
anyone can pick up and succeed in."
Flywheel hastryoutseveryyear in
the fallto findnewtalent.Tryoutsfor
Ultimate Frisbee are different from
other sports, because many people
trying outhave never played.
"Tryouts are really exciting,"
Carlson said. "We look for raw ath-
leticism, and the people that make
the team are easy to teach because
they are excited about sports. At
tryouts, there is a ratio of one per-
son who has played Ultimate to six
people who have never played."
The Wolverines will be playing
on the road for the rest of the sea-
son. The next tournament for Fly-
wheel is the Queen City Tune Up in
Charlotte, N.C. on Feb. 14. Flywheel
will play in four tournaments before
sectionals, the first tournament of
the postseason.
Flywheel lost two of its captains
from last year, including the third-
ranked player in the nation. Even
with the losses, the Flywheel cap-
tains believe the team will again be
a top contender at Nationals.
"We played above our expecta-
tions last year," Baecher said. "Now
we know that we can play with the
best teams in the country and want
to be a top contender at Nationals."

* From China to Ann Arbor, Xiao fosters champion gymnasts

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
Over a decade ago in China, Xiao
Yuan was a coach for the Chinese
National men's gymnastics team.
Li Xiaoshuang, one of China's most
famous gymnasts, introduced the
coach to a quiet, young boy as pro-
spective student.
No one, not even Li, thought the
boy would amount to much. He had
bad body lines and many bad habits,
both of which boded poorly for his
future in international competition.
But Xiao, now an assistant coach
at Michigan, gave him a shot.
And this past summer, Xiao's
former pupil, Yang Wei, won the all-
around gold medal at the Olympics.
Another ofhis former gymnasts,
Oklahoma's Jonathan Horton, led
the U.S. gymnasts to a surprise
bronze medal in the team compe-
tition while winning an individual
silver on the high bar.
So how did Xiao end up with the
Wolverines?
A COACH FROM THE BEGINNING
Xiao got his start in gymnas-
tics at 10 years old, and just a few
years later, his instructors were
already speculating on his future as
a coach.
"My coach said, 'We know, Xiao,
maybe you're not a good gymnast,
but you're a good coach,"' Xiao said.
"They (knew) I was training more
with my brain than my body."
Xiao wasn't abad gymnast,by any
means. In fact, he won his regional
high bar championship. But com-
peting against the likes of Li Ning,
the gymnast who lit the Olympic
torch for the 2008 Beijing Games,
and Tong Fei, who invented the
pommel horse skill that now bears
his name, Xiao knew his future
wasn't in competing for the Chinese
National Team.
When he retired from competi-
tion in his mid-twenties, a coaching
opportunity quickly lured Xiao to
stay in gymnastics. Both the men's
and women's teams from his prov-
ince competed for his services, and
Xiao took ajob with the men's team.
Then, in 1994, a coaching posi-
tion opened up with the Chinese
National Team. Until 1999, he
coached some of the top gymnasts
in the world, developing stars like
Yang Wei and Xing Aowei. In 1997,
he even earned a Lifetime Achieve-
ment award.
Xiao met current United States
head coach Kevin Mazeika at a
high-level junior meet in Japan, and
the two quickly developed a rap-
port. And when Mazeika eventu-
ally offered Xiao a job, Xiao, already
thinking about leaving China,
jumped t the chance.
"I just wanted to find a different
life," Xiao said. "The U.S. was my
first choice."
In 1999, Xiao moved with his fam-
ily to Houston to coach for Mazeika
at the Houston Gymnastics Acad-
emy. But Xiao, who calls himself an
"education guy," wanted to coach at
the college level, which he believed
would be similar to coaching the
Chinese National Team.
And within less than a year, Okla-
homa came calling.
STRENGTHENING THE SOONERS
In 2000, Oklahoma coach Mark

Williams was searching for a
replacement for his first assistant
coach. Williams had just taken over
the program, and started to revamp,
a year before.
Convincing Xiao to come to Nor-
man wasn't hard.
But there was one major obstacle
- Xiao struggled with speaking
English. So Williams set up English
classes for him and arranged for an
interpreter to come to the gym a few
times asweek to make sure they were
on the same page.
Xiao, along with Williams, played
a crucial role in changing the atti-
tude that pervaded the Oklahoma
gymnastics program.
"At times, I think the previous
head coach had allowed for the bet-
ter athletes to sometimes do less
because they were better and could
talk him into it," Williams said. "I
just felt like if it was going to be a
team, the whole team would do the
same things."
With the addition of Xiao and an
Olympic hopeful, Guard Young, to
the coaching staff, changes began
happening fast.
Xiao provided technical exper-
tise that neither of the other coaches
possessed and helped devise a tough
new training program based on his
experiences. A rookie coach might
not have gotten away with admin-
istering the strenuous workouts,
but Xiao's track record convinced
the gymnasts to give ita try.
The results spoke for them-
selves. From 2001-2005, Okla-
homa won three national titles.
And under Xiao's tutelage, Guard
Young realized his goal of making
the 2004 Olympic team.
"I helped Guard make his
dream, be an Olympian like his
father," Xiao said. "I've been a
part of his life in that moment. I
think that's a great thing (from)
Oklahoma, the best moment."
COMING TO ANN ARBOR
AfterOklahomawontheNCAA
Championship in 2005, Xiao was
ready to move on.
He'd become friendly with
Michigan coach Kurt Golder
through competitions, and often
went out to dinner with him when
the Wolverines came to Norman
for a meet.
Golder had an opening for the
2005-06 season, and at Michi-
gan, Xiao would get to try to build
a team up to the championship
level again.
"Sometimes it's more exciting
to be building a program to that
level than trying to maintain it,"
Williams said. "It just got to be a
time where it seemed like it was
good for both of our programs,
both Michigan and Oklahoma, to
have some changes."
Xiao's credentials gave him
immediate credibility at Michi-
gan.
"It gives you that extra confi-
dence in your coach," said senior
Jamie Thompson, one of eight
gymnasts who were freshmen
when Xiao arrived. "I trust him
fully. Whatever he says, you usu-
ally end up doing anyway, and it
usually works. Might as well keep
doing it. Xiao is always right."
He quickly became a team
favorite for his technical advice
and the strong bonds he devel-
oped through his one-on-one

work with the gymnasts. Williams
said Xiao was always at his best
working individually with a gym-
nast, and he has continued that
trend at Michigan.
Xiao devises unique drills to help
improve the Wolverines' technique
on different events. Senior Scott
Bregman said he's convinced some
of the drills are made up on the spot,
but they're so intuitive and helpful it
doesn't matter.
One of Bregman's most vivid
memories of Xiao, who the senior
calls the best coach he's ever had,
came early in his Wolverine career
during a rough day at practice.
"He told me, 'When you miss a
set, that's my problem. I have to fig-
ure out how to fix it. When you hit
a set, that's yours. You get to keep
that,' " Bregman said. "There's a
sense that he's in it with you."
THE LAUGHING WOLVERINE
Xiao constantly cracks jokes to
keep his gymnasts upbeat, even
when they're having tough work-
outs in the gym. His one-liners are
legendary among the team. Last
season, the gymnasts designed a
team T-shirt with apicture of Xiao's
face, reading, "I Lika Dat." It was
received with universal amusement,

(LEFT TO RIGHT) Michigan assistant coach Xiao Yuan, senioriJamie Thompson, junior David Chan and alumnus Dan Rais.

especially on Xiao's part.
"Xiao is a character," Thompson
said."He's always making fun of peo-
ple, whether they know he's making
fun of them or not. ... He'll just have
little remarks, and if you're paying
attention, they're really funny.".
And as a coach, Xiao is an attrac-
tive force for recruits. Sophomore
and U.S. Senior National Team
member Chris Cameron said that
Xiao's presence was a major factor
in his decision to attend Michigan.

WhenXiao chose to add Cameron
to his coaching group, Cameron said
"it felt like I had won the lottery."
And senior Ralph Rosso credits
Xiao with muchmore thanjusthelp-
ing the gymnasts with their sport.,
"Without Xiao, most of us would
not be the gymnasts that we are
today," Rosso said. "But most impor-
tantly we would not be who we are
today without Xiao's guidance over
the last four years. Personally, Xiao
has been a father-like figure to me

... Our private chats are something
that I will never forget, and I will
take those wherever I go in life."
Still far behind Oklahoma's level
of success, with the Wolverines
Xiao has high hopes for the coming
months and years.
"We've never had a team win,"
Xiao said. "I think this year, we need
to grab that chance. Don't let it go
sliding away. That'sthe picture we're
looking for. So my best moment is not
present, it's in the future."


Enter for a chance to win great prizes including:
+ 8 GB iPod Touch
+ $75 STA Travel Vouchers
+ $50 Barnes & Noble Bookstore Gift Card
+ U-go's Gift Bags -
+ UM Commemorative Books
+ Munchie Money

e
M University Unions ti(t1US.111. , '
"~a , P;e.poM . union DrvsOn of Auden A[ Cin




.. _. _.


4

10A - Thursday, February 12, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

S

r
' '
c

4

Looking for
an Internship?
Pecause...It's not always about who you know!
Come to The Career Center to talk to an advisor
daily from 11-5
Call to schedule an appointment with'a counselor
Use Optimal to produce a high impact resume and
cover letter
Check out great resources for internship seekers
Browse hundreds of postings on Career Center
Connector
(https://umich-csm.sympliclty.com/students)
For more informationcontactus at
3200 SAOP- (734)764-7460 " www.careeroenter.umich.edu

SEASONAL EMPLOYMENT ON
MACKINAC ISLAND, MI
COME MAKE LIFELONG FRIENDS ON MACKINAC ISLAND.
SEEKING MOTIVATED, ENERGETIC INDIVIDUALS FOR SEASONAL
EMPLOYMENT. PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE REWARDED. HOUSING &
SEASONAL BONUS AVAILABLE. CALL RYAN AT 800.626.6304
OR VISIT www.theislandhouse.com FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0

6

A FUN working environment
With FUN activities!
" Swimming, lake sports, arts & crafts,
drama, athletics and nature programs.
" Located on over 16 acres in Milford
" Staff of 70 college students and graduates
* Over 40 years of camping & summer fun
" Must reside in Bloomfield, Farmington,
Ann Arbor, Troy, Milford, Northville, or
adjacent communities

0

a

, The Health & Fitness Center
Live life to the fittest.
LIFEGUARD
Hiring for all shifts, plus on-call. All interestec
applicants are encouraged to apply.
Employees receive free fitness membership.
To apply for the position, please go to the
Employment section of our website,
www.wccfitness.org, and complete the
online application.

a

v aatinca""i
C- z
9123 West Q Ave.
Mattawan, Ml 49071
269.375.1950
ww.prttylakecamp.org

Looking for a summer job that will
impact you for the rest of your life?
Consider Pretty Lake Vacation Camp!
Pretty Lake Vacation Camp is a non-profit organization
whose primary mission is to provide a summer
residential camp experience to under-served children in
Kalamazoo County.
" Now hiring for summer staff positions!
" Great opportunities for growth and learning.
" For more information, visit us at
www.prettylakecamp.org.

AFmLL

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line ads to
clients
Obtaining and building client relationships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-based salary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please e-mail dailyclassified@gmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!

flAY CAMP

POSITION: CAMP COUNSELOR
Applicant must have prior experience working
with children and be certified in CPR/AED
Professional Rescuer, Life Guarding, and First
Aid. References and background check will be
required prior to employment.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 12, 2009 -11A

Are you reacy for twe one o- toe most cnateogmg, rewarag, 8n0
surprisingly un summers of your Ufez
-w w - -- 4-w- - u-r-n- - - - - -a- - -^- -.-,- - - - - - - - - - - - - - t-e-r--w-o
' am 7 in ru

Golt Course Positions

The University of Michigan's
Radrick Farms Golf Course
is seeking motivated and conscienti
to fill grounds crew and clubhouse
the spring and beyond.
Positions available starting April 1st
Contact Paul L. Scott at plscott
EOAAE.

100)

luam nrx expenence at
Mackinac Island's Murray Hotel
* Front Desk Clerks and Management Interns
* Paid Internships
*No Experience Required
Ask about our employee benefits including rent
refunds, discounted meals, and payroll bonus
Murray Hotel

Camp Seo-Gt

Charlevoix, MI
Traditional Girls Camp
Beautiful Lake Charlevoix Location
Female Staff Openings for 2009
Nurse
Riding Instructor/Counselor
Sailing Instructor/Counselor
Excellent Salaries: June 23rd-August 7th

BAY CLIFF HEALTH CAMP
Therapy Center for Handicapped Children

MACKINAC ISLAND
Resort Hotel and Fine Dining Restaurant
Seeking summer staff for all positions.
Go to www.iroquoishotel.com
and fill out an on-line application
or contact Marti at
906-643-8293 for further information.

Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big Bay, MI 49808
(906) 345-9314, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com. Visit us at www.baycliff.org

Car

SUMMER IN MAINE
Males and females.
Meet new friends! Travel!
reach your favorite activity
*Tennis
*Gymnas ics
*English 'ding
*Art
*Pottery
*Swim x
*Sail
*Archery
*Copper Enameling
*Basketball N
*Lacrosse
%ter Ski
* apoand Kayak
r*And More!
lune to August. Residential.
Enjoy our website. Apply online
Tripp Lake Camp for Girls:
1-800-997-4347
www.tripplakecamp.com

RESUME

I

I.

;us Tr i q-


12A - Thursday, February 12, 2009

12A Thrsdy, ebrury 2, 009he Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

40

4


p
The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, February 12, 2009
weekend
essentials
Feb. 12 to Feb.15
VT
{ III -TV
The much-anticipated
HBO comedy "Eastbound
P & Down," co-created by
masters of hilarity Will
Ferrell and Adam McKay
(writer of films "Anchor-
man and "Talladega
Nights"), begins this Sun
day at 10:30 p.m. The
series's hero is a washed-
up ex-professional base-
ball pitcher played by
rising star Danny McBride
("Pineapple Express").
The show chronicles
his efforts to make it
back to the big show.
FLM
If it gets nasty cold this
weekend, then why not
cozy up with a hearty,
healthy laugh at the
expense of the Marx
Brothers? This Monday,
The Michigan Theater's
Screwball Comedies
Series will continue its
legendary laugh-ins at
., a a 7 p.m. with "Night at
the Opera," an arguable
masterpiece in the Marx
. ~canon The "Contract
. scene alone is worth it
CONCERT
Calling all couples out
there: Celebrate Valen-
tine's Day early with My

i Foiky Vaentine, an annu-
al event held at The Ark
featuring performances
by some of Michigan's
- finest married songwrit-
ers. Tickets from $15. But
if folk's not your thing,
head over to the Blind Pig
on Saturday to "dance the
" "passion" with The Love
c ",p,'"Bang!, a special Valen-
tine's Day party hosted
by local dance authority
The Bang! Tickets $8
for those over 21 and
$11 for the young ones.
aming without a good mon," "Lord of the Rings," "Digi- tion of "Dungeons & Dragons" ing. As an additional effort, the think the social aspect of it is
group of players is like mon" and several other card (which, according to several store is strongly pushing board why I like it," Fireman said in
playing in a 'Magic' tour- game franchises. "Magic" is par- annoyed gamers; is just becom- game competitions. On Thurs- reference to his "D&D" habits.
nament without nonbasic lands. ticularly dear to Fireman's heart ing another version of "World day and Sunday nights, anyone Likewise, the store and its
You won't have fun and you'll because it's how he got his start of Warcraft," except on paper). can come in and either demo a many events provide more than
probably be a loser." as a gamer at a very young age. Unsurprisingly, the store has game from the store or bring one just a place for gamers to play.
That's why Joshua Fireman, "My dad actually got me into turned into somewhat of a cen- of their own. They serve a much greater pur-
LSA freshman and avid gamer, is it," Fireman explained. "He tral hub for gamers who go there This whole culture mightcseem pose: bringing gamers together.
thankful to be in Ann Arbor. started playing a little bit after to hang out. strange at first, but one need only "A lot of what we carry is more O N STAG E
"Ann Arbor lets me feel more it came out. And he needed a look at the games themselves social,"saidAlexHorvath,owner
open about playing 'Magic' and play partner, and his four- or to see why they evoke so much of Get Your Game On. "Our big For the fifth weekend
'Dungeons & Dragons' and other five year-old son was a good play devotion from their players. The tournaments, our board games,
activities such as that," he said. partner." Not all gamers games that succeed the most thingslike that.Ithink there's an running, Ann Arbor's
"You feel like less of a nerd when Forthoseseekingopponentsor are those that immerse gamers inherent need in human nature Performance Network
you're doing it at college because partners - whether in games like have pocket in new fantastical worlds while for that social aspect." . Theatre will be perform-
you no longer feel like you're the "Magic," "Warhammer," "D&D," intellectually challenging the Gaming in Ann Arbor is, due ing Tom Stoppard's bril-
only one." video games or evensboard games proteCtors and players. "Magic" has created in large part to Horvath, truly
Fireman isjustone ofthe many - there's no better place to go in numerous fantasy settings from a social event. His store has liant and chilling work,
Ann Arborites who identify with Ann Arbor than Get Your Game decoder rings which the content of the cards become an important meet- "Rosencrantz and Guil-
the elite class of "gamers." Gam- On, the gaming and comic store dr is derived, and "Dungeons & ing place for local gamers. Most denstern are Dead." An
ing is a term with a broad defini- that sits unassumingly at 709 Dragons" features worlds full of of the local groups who play adaptation of "Hamlet"
tion, extending through video Packard Street, just off the State the things its name suggests. But "Magic," "D&D" or one of many
games, board games, card games, Street intersection. don't confuse this emergence into other games meet at the store and a starkly original
figurine games and role-playing The store is a veritable gain- Each day of the week the store imaginary realms with escapism. as strangers and leave as close foray into questions of
games. With so many games to er's paradise. The walls are cov- offers different events and com- These games are merely another friends. Horvath is especially being and the nature of
choose from, gamers often strug- ered with graffiti-esque murals petitions that end up having a outlet for the imagination. After proud of the connections made theatre, this play is one
gle to stick to just one. of Mario and Megaman as well consistentturnout."Magic"com- all, who wouldn't want to take in the store.
Fireman, for example, is cur- as posters of characters and set- petition days have been the most a few hours each day to shoot "We do build an extensive of the great modern dra-
rently involved with "Dungeons tings from magical worlds. The popular, and the store offers a down demons with a crossbow? community, and there are cer- mas. The Performance
& Dragons," "Magic: the Gath- shelves contain every imaginable variety of different tournaments Even so, the fantasy and the tainly plenty of friendships that Network Theatre re-
ering" and "World of Warcraft," object of the gaming world, from for the classic card game. The strategy don't make up the entire have come out of it," he said. "We creates it masterfully.
to name a few. He has also been the latest PlayStation 3 releases store also offers "Warhammer" appeal of gaming. really try to make ita welcoming
through passing phases of "Pok- to the rulebooksuto the latest edi- events that are constantly grow- "I enjoy role-playing, but I See GAMERS, Page 3B Tickets are $12 to $31
with the student dis-
count (call 734.663.0681
for the box office).

.
r


a

2B - Thursday, February 12, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



CALENDAR
The Daly Arts guide to
upcoming events in Ann Arbor
and the surrounding area.
Today 2.12.09
Arts & the Environment Exhi-
bition: Earth
12 p.m.
At the Duderstadt Center (Media Union),
Free
Penny W. Stamps Lecture:
Anne Pasternack, "Public Art
Then & Now"
5 p.m.
At the Michigan Theater
Free
The Show-Off
7:30 p.m.
At the Mendelssohn Theater
$9 to $24 for students
Tomorrow 2.13.09
The Concert Series: Jeff
Parker and Sam Barsh at
Canterbury House
9 pm.
At Canterbury House, 721 E. Huron Street
$10
Concert and Symphony Band
Chamber Winds
8 p.m.
At Waigreen Drama Center
Free
Saturday 2.14.09
Valentine's Day Star Party at
Matthaei Botanical Gardens
7 p.m.
At Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Free for students
Lecture: Inna Naroditskaya
2 p.m.
At Burton Memorial Tower, Room 506
Free
Sunday 2..09
Batsheva Dance Company
8 p.m.
At Hill Auditorium
$18-42, rush tickets available for students
Please send all press releases
and event information to
arts@michigandaily.com.

After the disbanding of Michigan Action
Party, MSA remains irrelevant.
1:1
For Valentine's Day, Michelle Obama
gives Barack the stimulus he really
wanted.
3:1
T.I. attempts to escape from prison by
disguising himself as a calculator.
10,000:1

A notable Ann Arbo rite gives five
answers to a curious question.
u
Macklin Smith
Professor, English Department
What are your five favorite works of
poetry, in five different forms?
Shakespearean Sonnet: "Sonnet 73" ("That time of year thou mayst in me
behold") is an astonishing, perfect poem: everything works together - the
words, the syntax, the figures, the rhythms, the sounds - so that we imagine a
new way of seeing time. Time isn'tchronological or cyclical in 73; it's the subjec-
tive appreciation of the fragile season, day, moment. This is one of my favorite
poems, and I quote or allude to it several times in mybook, "Transplant."
4-beat poem: A tie: "Beowulf" and "Piers Plowman." Both the Old English
and Middle English masterpieces are enduringly entertaining even as they
ask us to consider the vanity of our fondest wishes and bravest actions. These
poems are easy to listen to, and would have been delivered orally, but they are
difficult to study, and were quite obviously studied works.
Long rhyming poem: Another tie: Dante's "Divine Comedy" and Chaucer's
"Canterbury Tales." Despite its title (which refers to thingsworking out rightly,
not to laughs), the former is far more serious, the latter is far funnier. But both
explore the essential issues. These are poems that take a long time to read and
reward every minute. They never get old either. Amazing.
Free verse poet: Several of the anonymous composers (and translators) of
the Psalms from the King James Bible qualify, but perhaps the prize should go
to Walt Whitman. Some of Whitman's poems are horrible, but when he's on,
he's perfect. Among the more recent poets I love are John Ashbery (when he's
on, which is only sometimes) for the way he captures how the mind can get lost
in its own ruminations, and Elizabeth Bishop (who is always on) for the way she
meticulously details the incidence of beauty and mystery in a context of loss.
Hip-hop song: For sheer entertainment, Busta Rhymes, "Woo Hah! Got Yc u
All in Check," but for thematic coherence, prosodic versatility, and "message,"
Outkast, Speakerboxxx/The Love Below, "Reset."

ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK

RAPID WARS
In this cool remake of "Asteroids," you
fly a constantly shooting ship around
the screen blasting strange light forma-
tions before they catch you and sap your
health. Time the collection of power-ups
to maximize their efficacy, and dodge
those damn orange squares.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/be7qqg

SUPER IACKER 2
This game is "Jenga" meets "Snood."
Stack some smiling polygons on top of
each other without letting any them fall
off the screen. It's a challenging exercise
in balance, patience and problem solving.
A single level could take an entire class to
figure out. Happy stacking.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/9fdpr7

I


SINGLE REVIEWS
CRACK A BOTTLE
EMINEM (FEAT. DR. DRE AND 50 CENT)
Yeah, Shady's back. Back again. You'd think this charade of disappear-
ing for awhile onlyto reassert his relevance by infecting the airwaves with
an offensive single would prove to be a bit trite by now. But to the delight
of millions of his fans, it hasn't. After a witty boxing-style introduction,
a piano-backed loop creates a nice flow that displays Mathers's knack for
crafting vulgar yet intelligent verses and an amusing chorus. Enjoy it now,
before the radio, clubs and frat houses start playing it on repeat.
DAVID RIVA
FORK IN THE ROAD
NEIL YOUNG
Neil Young his always been something of a political loose'cannon,
using his music to spew impassioned rants about issues he cares about
one minute and forgets the next. The rush-released "Fork in the Road,"
in which Neil satirizes America's current economic woes, falls squarely
into this classic tradition. It's amateurish, regressive and embarrassingly
topical. And it rocks. Built on a crack garage riff, it's a tragic comedy of
lines like "There's a bailout coming / but it's not for you" and "We salute
the troops / They're all still there / in a fucking war." When Neil says
"Download this / Sounds like shit," it's difficult to argue with him.
DAVID WATNICK
by eorge Kely
S ardvddo dbounds in
this 1920s (omedy
where a little bit of
bluff qoes dlong wdy
Directed by Philip Kerr
Department of
Theatre & Drama
February 12 at 7:30 PM
February 13 & 14 at 8 PM
February 15 at 2 PM
Mendelssohn Theatre
Tickets $24 & $18
Students $9 w/lD
League Ticket Office
154-l764-255S8
MusicTheatre & Dance
' www.music.umich.edu

0

'BROKEN SWORD: SHADOW OF THE TEMPLARS' (1995), PLAYSTATION

A puzzle game with a sense of humor

By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
Sevenyears before Dan Brown's
"The Da Vinci Code" made the
Knights Templar popular, little-
known British software company
Revolution Studios released a
top-tier mystery adventure game
called "Broken Sword: The Shad-
ow of the Templars." The two
works are so eerily similar that,
were the game to be released right
now for the first time, it would be
run out of town for piggybacking
on a stale formula.
Like "Code," "Broken Sword"
also stars an American in Paris
who finds himself knee-deep in
an international conspiracy to
locate a historic treasure. Like
Robert Langdon, the protagonist
in "Sword," George Stobbart, is
assisted on his journey by a lovely
French woman as he fights to
uncover a secret that's ferocious-
ly guarded by the Knights Tem-
plar. Come to think of it, these
similarities are pretty striking -
maybe Revolution Studios should
join the ever-expanding rank of
authors and theologians who've
filed plagiarism charges against
Mr. Brown.
Despite its disappointing lack

of crazy professors claiming that
Jesus fathered a child, "Broken
Sword" is still worth trying post-
"Code." Like all graphic adven-
ture games, it's heavy on text and
problem-solving logic. The player
takes control of Stobbart right
after he witnesses a bomb blast at
a Parisian cafe in the opening cut
scene..
Stobbart then wanders through
luxury hotels, breaks into muse-
ums ' and meanders through
exotic environments - like an
Irish pub and a street market in
Cairo - in his quest to unravel the
meaning of a mysterious ancient
scroll. Along the way, he picks
up a hand buzzer, a matchbook
and many other similarly random
items which he will later use in an
unconventional fashion to uncov-
er clues.
Players who are familiar with
the point-and-clickgenre through
"Myst" and "Escape from Mon-
key Island" know that the thrill
of such games comes from their
many "a-ha!" moments - those
instances when, after travers-
ing the same area for minutes on
end with no clue what to do, the
player gets an out-of-nowhere
breakthrough and suddenly
knows exactly how to progress.

Most of the puzzles in "Broken "She's like a part of the furni-
Sword" are frustrating to the ture," says the receptionist. "You
point of insanity, but with tough- mean she's been here for a long
er conundrums come more sat- time?" Stobbart asks.
isfying "a-ha!" moments. Still, if "No," comes the reply. "I mean
anyone ever claims to have beaten there isn't a man in this hospital
who hasn't lain down on top of
her."
Long before The American masses may
g r have never heard of the "Broken
'Da Vinci Code,' Sword" franchise, but it's a huge
hit in Europe. The game was a top
there was seller across the pond, and it has
spawned three sequels to date,
'Broken Sword.' the most recent of which was
"The Angel of Death" in 2006.
Its successors have only received
minimal exposure in America,
this game in its entirety without and some versions of the games
even glancing at a walkthrough, were released under different
that's a lie. titles or haven't made it over here
Stobbart encounters several at all. Perhaps it's just as well.
colorful characters during his Judging by the progression of the
traipses through Paris, and they box art, the games have grown
all come equipped with droll, increasingly more morbid and
characteristically un-PC wit: less whimsical.
The game's sharp dialogue is its Still, the original game has
main attraction, so it's a good enjoyed lasting popularity. It was
thing many of the puzzles revolve ported to the Game Boy Advance
around striking up the right con- in 2002, and next month a "Direr-
versations with the right people. tor's Cut" version is coming to
Take a level set in a hospital, Nintendo's Wii and DS systems,
where Stobbart grills a reception- with new puzzles and fleshed-out
ist about the identity of one of the plot details. It should be one of
nurses. the year's essential releases.

0
0
0
6


40


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 12, 2009 - 3B

Bruises, bitches
and love ballads

reetings, fellow gossip
devotees ... Ow! Ow!
Sorry, my gossip-writing
hand hasn't been the same since
Chris Brown
attacked me
a couple days
ago. At least
I'm not faring
any worse
than Rihan-
na, whose
injuries MARK
from R&B SCHULTZ
star Brown
include major contusions, a
bloody lip and bite marks (!).
(Regarding these bite marks: Is
it now more appropriate to call
Brown the Ike Turner of our
generation, or the Marv Albert?)
In fact, the "Disturbia" singer is
so banged-up she recently had
to cancel her 21st birthday party,
which would've been carnival-
themed and sponsored by Ciroc
vodka. Ciroc, really? Get with it,
Rihanna; even my 21st was spon-
sored by Grey Goose.
But Rihanna's 21st birthday
won't be nearly as depressing as
the 40th of everyone's favorite
officially over-the-hill "Friends"
star, Jennifer Aniston. Not only
is 40 a tough birthday for every-
one - I believe Madonna cel-
ebrated hers by crying alone in a
champagne Jacuzzi - but John
"Ani's boy-toy" Mayer isn't even
getting her an expensive gift.
He's singing.
Now, I could be wrong here,
but I believe John Mayer sings
for a living. This would be like
Michael Jordan saying to his
wife, "Happy birthday baby. Now
watch me do 10 dunks in a row
with my tongue sticking out ...
just for you, of course." Johnny,
let me just say you should never
take your loved one for granted.
Sure, today she's healthy, writh-
ing half-naked in a tie on the
cover of GQ, but tomorrow she
could be in intensive care after
the most botched liposuction
since Butters's attempted "City
Wok" commercial - like Usher's
wife, Tameka Foster. I suppose I
understand Foster's insecurity -
I mean, she is married to Usher.
But going to Brazil for lipo?
Probably a mistake. The whole
South American continent is not
exactly known for its stringent
medical regulations. Was Foster
too ashamed to have her surgery
in the states, or did she just want
to be somewhere tropical to
show off her newly thunder-less
thighs?
I can't say for sure, but I do
know one thing - Jessica Simp-
son got fat. I mean, when the
POTUS disses you in US Weekly,
you know you've become a
nationwide spectacle. Simpson
apparently blames her balloon-
ing weight on the holidays. Yeah
right. What did you eat over
Christmas, Jessica? The tree? All
right, enough fat jokes. They're
too easy. What astonishes me is
not so much Simpson's weight
gain but how she continues to
perform in low-cut blouses and
"Daisy Duke" cutoffs despite the

fact that, sorry babe, you don't
look like Daisy anymore.
Speaking of the '70s, I was
watching "Network" the other
day. It's an old movie from 1976,
back when "satire" and "comedy"
weren't mutually exclusive -
thanks aslot, Aaron Seltzer and
Jason Friedberg - and actors
whose names didn't rhyme with
'Wreath Hedger" won posthu-
mous acting Oscars (R.I.P. Peter
Finch). The most enthralling
performance besides Finch's
was Faye Dunaway's asa caustic,
nearly inhuman network execu-
tive named Diana Christensen.
Today, ina sign-of-the-times
sort of thing, Dunaway is being
dissed by none other than Hilary
Duff. To be fair, Dunaway started
it when she said, in response to
Duff's latest role in the remake
of "Bonnie and Clyde," "Couldn't
they at least cast a real actress?"
Damn, girl, gotta love that
passive-aggressiveness - Chris-
tensen would be proud.
Dunaway, of course, starred
in 1967's "Bonnie" with Warren
Beatty. Beatty himself probably
won't be happy to see the role of
Clyde go to Robert Pattinson or
Chad Michael Murray or who-
ever happens to be featured in
CosmoGirl the week of casting
calls. Whether she deserved it or
not (she probably did), Duff felt
obliged to defend herself, say-
ing: "I might be mad if I looked
like that too." Ouch. I won't even
bother to point out the fact that
not only is Dunaway an Oscar
winner while Hilary Duff is, well,
Hilary Duff, but that Dunaway
was actually pretty hot back
Hollywood stars
are at it again.
And again.
in the day. (Just check out the
original "Bonnie" if you don't
believe me.) I will point out that
Duff, whose star has fallen at a
fairly constant rate since leaving
"Lizzie McGuire" (just check out
the graphs I've made if you don't
believe me), might seem like an
odd choice to play Bonnie, but to
me it makes sense. After all, her
Disney nest egg must be almost
dried up and, after this movie
fails, she's only a step away from
actually robbing banks to support
that lavish lifestyle of hers. At
least now she gets some practice.
Speaking of losing money, if
you're playing beer pongthis
weekend, be sure to keep the
in-game betting to a minimum.
Michael Phelps didn't, and he
lost $2,000-while partying at the
University of South Carolina last
November. Wow, Mikey, what
were you thinking - were you
high or something?
Schultz is holding his own
auditions for 'Bonnie & Clyde:
Send him your glamour shots
at markhosylumich.edu.

The Neutral Zone has its own performance venue, record label and recording studio
Finding -their voices

The Neutral Zone lets Ann
Arbor teens get in touch with
music and other arts
By SARAH CHAVEY
Daily Arts Writer
It's a Friday night in February, and far from
the stretches of bars on Main Street and South
University Avenue, the streets of downtown Ann
Arbor are cold and desolate. But walk down East
Washington Street and follow the muted bass
beats to a small door on the backside of what looks
like a big, brick warehouse. High school students
spill out from the entrance and just inside the
door are dozens more, soaking up the warm bliss
of live music. This is The Neutral Zone.
On any given weekend, this is the scene you'll
encounter at the Zone. But stop in on a Monday
and it's clear that this local hangout is home
to a veritable mother lode of youth programs.
Located just off campus on East Washington and
South Fifth, The Neutral Zone is, as avowed in its
mission statement, "a diverse, youth-driven teen
center dedicated to promoting personal growth
through artistic expression, community leader-
ship and the exchange of ideas."
Founded in 1998 by a group of ambitious teens
tired of being banned from the 21-and-up scene,
the Zone provides a rare place where minors can
meet after school and on weekends away from
parental controls. Youth programs at the Zone
cover five basic areas: music, literary arts, visu-
al arts, education and leadership. They include
workshops in those areas as well as college prep
and drop-in tutoring. It's also home to youth
leadership groups that discuss everything from
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer
issues to the situation in Darfur.
On weekends, the Zone's performance venue,
The B-Side, hosts concerts and special events
organized by the Zone's music programs. These
programs encompass every side of the music
industry, including a record label called Youth
Owned Records (YOR), a professional recording
studio and The B-Side venue itself.
Continuing in its founders footsteps, the Zone
remains in the hands of those whouse it: the teens.
While adult workers and volunteers lend their
skills and experience, the Zone's youth members
call the final shots. The teens are the ones who

book and promote concerts at The B-Side and sign
bands to YOR (making it one of the only entirely
youth-owned labels in the country).
"There's a really strong feeling of ownership
for them because basically it's their space to do
what they want - even though, you know, we're
here sweeping and mopping it," YOR's music
coordinator Chris Bathgate explained.
The "we"he referred to consists of the 20-some
full- and part-time staff as well as a volunteer
core of more than 70 students and community
members. And it's not too shabby a group.
"We get in like really, really funky individuals
.. a lot of the people who work in these fields are
also leaders in their fields outside of The Neutral
Zone," said Nathaniel Mullen, a Zone volunteer
and University alum.
A good number of those volunteers are Wolver-
ines. Bathgate, an accomplished indie/folk musi-
cian, is a University alum with an Master of Fine
Arts from the School of Art & Design. Although
he wasn't directly involved with the Zone until
later, he was aware of it as a student and knew
people who had worked there.
The connection between the University and
the Zone is due in part to sheer proximity, but
also to a similar vision. "There's a lot of opportu-
nity for University students to be involved here,
and University students also have ... experiences
that they could give to teens," Mullen said.
The Neutral Zone provides students an oppor-
tunity to practice their skills in the real world and
share ideas and interests with like-minded peers.
"There's sort of a long-standing tradition of
people in the local scene sort of fluctuating in
and out and supportingthis place. And you know
that isn't limited to music; it's the same for visual
art and it's the same especially with the writing
workshops," Bathgate noted.
Bathgate's role now?
"I'm just there to support their interests, their
needs and basically to use the knowledge that I
have to enable them to do everything that they
want to do to the best of my ability," he said.
Bathgate's view is also an overarching theme
among Neutral Zone workers. High schoolers
and industry professionals interact as equals.
University volunteers act less as teachers and
more as mentors.
"They're leading programs - they're work-
ing with teens to, I guess, bringthem to the next
level. And that's on all sides; leadership, emotion-
ally and artistically," Bathgate said.

Mullen first fell into the Zone in the summer
between his sophomore and junior years at the
University. Searching for something "produc-
tive" to do with his summer, he walked by the
building and noticed the art in the windows.
"Thatwas definitely something I figuredrfcould
contribute to, so I walked in, talked to some people
and wound up volunteering," Mullen said.
It was such a success that he is now complet-
ing his Americorp service learning at the Zone.
"It worked - it just clicked really well," he con-
tinued.
Volunteers like Mullen help the Zone remain
an integral part of the Ann Arbor community,
especially for local teens. The Zone offers them
a fun and safe alternative on Friday and Satur-
day nights. It's the only consistent all-ages venue
that's geared toward providing young musicians
and artists a venue for their art.
Bathgate mentioned how frustrating it can be
to be a music fan asa minor.
"They're sensitive to (the local music scene)"
he said. "Their finger's on the pulse, but they
don't have access to it."
Most music venues double as bars and clubs,
hosting late-night shows to audiences 21 or older,
preventing teens from seeing their favorite acts.
"It's a total bummer. It's a hard world when
you want to be part of something and you don't
get that sort of jurisdiction," Bathgate added.
r Not only are teens often denied access as-an
audience, but also as performers. Charlie Held is
the drummer for the YOR-signed band Echoes.
His favorite part about the Zone is the oppor-
tunity it provides for students like him to play
shows.
Promoters at The B-Side venue book a wide
variety of acts, including local high school and
middle school bands, college bands and even
the occasional national act to attract a broad.
audience.
"We also really want to connect more with the
U of M campus. We try to cater to their tastes.
We'd like to see the phrase 'all ages' expanded,"
Bathgate said.
Take it from Mullen. "It's all about coming in
and being willing to help,"he said.As he describes
it, "The Zone is hot!"
Get a glimpse behind the scenes at The
Neutral Zone. Check online at michigandaily.
com/section/arts for a video.


GAMERS
From Page 1B
place for both new customers and
new players of the games."
Horvath is committe d to main-
taining this environment for gam-
ers, and he makes a personal effort
to see that the store remains con-
flict-free.
"I remember noticing one par-
ticular player - you know, a little
older, maybe college-age, maybe
mid-twenties - really trash-talk-
ing a younger kid," said Horvath,
before doing an astonishingly accu-
rate nerd-bully impression:" 'Augh,
that's the worst deck I've ever seen.
What are you doing? That's awful.
You're stupid."'

That didn't sit well with Hor-
vath.
"I didn't stand for it," he said.
"I literally kicked him out of the
store and told him he couldn't
come back."
This focus on building a healthy
community, along with the many
scheduled events and always-open
table space that let people play
together, makes Get Your Game
On the epitome of what gaming is
all about: having fun socializing.
But with more magic and elves.
To those who have an interest.
in gaming but fear that they might
not fit within a group of nerd -
caricatures, there's no reason to
fear. Get Your Game On attracts
a far more diverse clientele than
one can imagine.
"To be honest, I was probably

expecting more of the stereotype
when I opened the store: the glass-
es, the pocket protector, the really
introverted non-social," said Hor-
vath. "But that's not what we get.
We get very much mainstream."
Horvath attributes the trend of
more mainstream customers to
the fact that his products and the
town of Ann Arbor both appeal to
the same demographic.
"In general, a lot of the stuff
that we carry here requires
thought. It requires a deal of
intellect and thinking and I think
that attracts all kinds of people,"

said Horvath. "Ann Arbor is really
good for that. It's a very intellec-
tual community."
Whether it's gaming strategy
and problem-solving, the socially
and community-oriented envi-
ronment or the fantasy worlds
and imagination that come with
these games, there's something
about gaming that makes it hardto
resist. So stop trying. Get out your
battle-axe, rally up some friends,
roll the dice and have yourself a
good time.
As they say in the nerd world:
Gamers unite!

.a-

KNOW FLASH?
Work for our online staff.
E-mail graca@michigandaily.com


18 APRIL 2009
BRESLIN CENTER
STUDENT 29 PUBLIC 35
WWW.RHA.MSU.EDU

GRAMMY NOMINATED ALBUM, "NARROW STAIRS," IN STORES NOW
0 E A T N C A B F 0 R C U T I E , C 0M
STUDENT EVENTS CENTER


AodlS A!;od p eb peu;ya!e ui JO aSaqo ; pnois' d a MpO ;{u s a s4BI ud1S dOspu! pu a SOj d 6s oOA


woo-Ajepue~i:J - AleG uei:iA eall

6OOZ'ZL Aienjq;A AepsinqL - t


