SETTING A HIGH BAR A-IG-IASDVENTURE
The men's gymnastics team claimed :Greg Mottola's Adventureland'takes
its first Big Ten title in nine years. the amusement out of amusement park.
See SportsMonday, Inside See arts, page 5A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, April 6, 2009

michigandaily.com

TEACHING ADVOCACY
Law Clinic to
ight human
trafficng
Students will defend example, in businesses-like hair
salons.
victims of 'modern "It is estimated that worldwide
slavery is more prevalent now
day slavery' than at any other time in history,"
she said.
By VERONICA MENALDI Aaron Wenzloff, a second-year
Daily StaffReporter Law student, said he plans to par-
ticipate in the human traffick-
A new University Law School ing clinic this fall. Wenzloff was
clinic will be one of the first in involved in an Urban Communi-
the country to take aim at human ties Clinic led by Carr last fall and
trafficking - or, as one official said he thought this opportunity
calls it, "modern day slavery." would be a "great fit" for him.
The clinic will focus on a grow- Stemming the mounting trend
ing industry that now involves in human trafficking involves
the illegal trafficking of 60,000 more than simply stopping the
to 80,000 people per year across traffickers, Wenzloff said.
international borders - the "Part of the role of a lawyer
majority of whom are women and is to tackle problems holistical-
children sold into sex industries, ly, and that means helping find
according to the U.S. Immigra- supportive housing programs,
tion Lawyers website. education programs, and other
Law School students will oper- social services for the victims,"
ate the clinic and provide legal he said.
representation to human traffick- Carr, who has previously repre-
ing victims in the United States. sented human trafficking victims
The students will also work on in the Detroit area, said students
international law form.projects. will be primarily responsible
to help strengthen anti-human for running the clinic and will
trafficking laws in other coun- receive course credit for their
tries. involvement.
Bridgette Carr, a visiting "The clinic will represent vic-
clinical assistant professor at tims of human trafficking in the
the Law School, who worked on U.S. and also work on prevention
a similar project at the Univer- projectsbothinthe U.S.and other
sity of Notre Dame last year, will countries," Carr said.
lead the clinic. The clinic atmosphere, Wen-
Carr said that while human zloff said, will allow students
trafficking most commonly takes the opportunity to be directly
place in the sex trade industry, involved in the practice of law.
this "modern day slavery" also Since he has taken a clinical class
exists in many other forms, for See CLINIC, Page 7A

Community members join representatives from local Native American tribes to perform a tribal chant at the 37th annual Dance for Mother Earth Powwow on Saturday.
Saline, Powwow moves on
despite strained U relations

Disagreements with
'U push organizers
to relocate after 19
years at Crisler Arena
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
SALINE - Native American
songs sounded through the halls,
dancing pounded the gym floor and
the smell of traditional foods waft-

ed through the air at Saline Middle
School this weekend.
These were usually the sights
and sounds of Crisler Arena during
a weekend inthebeginningofApril.
But for the first time in the past 19
years, the annual Dance for Mother
Earth Powwow was held at a new
location. In its 37th year, the pow-
wow left its stadium setting for the
fieldhouse at Saline Middle School
in an effort to reduce the Univer-
sity's involvement with the pow-
wow and as a statement against the
University's continued possession

of Native American artifacts.
The move follows more than
a year of controversy about the
University's continued possession
of more than 1,900 remains and
artifacts housed in the Museum
of Anthropology that the Saginaw
Chippewa Tribe claims belong to
the tribe. Last March, members of
the tribe appeared before the Uni-
versity Board of Regents to request
the artifacts be returned.
Since then, the University has
refused to return the relics, claim-
ing they are "culturally unidentifi-

able" and returning them would.
violate federal law. According to
the 1990 Native American Graves
Protection and Repatriation Act,
museums must retain possession
of Native American artifacts if they
cannot be identified with a specific
tribe.
In part because of the Univer-
sity's handling of this issue and
in part to reduce the University's
involvement with the powwow, the
Native American Student Associa-
tion decided last month to move the
See POWWOW, Page 7A

Another hit for Hash Bash Amid fun, Relay for Life nets

Attendants celebrate
state's new medical
marijuana law
By VALIANT LOWITZ
DailyStaffReporter
High noon on the first Satur-
day in April means only one thing:
Hash Bash.
A smoky haze filled Monroe
 Street Saturday, as a mixture of
old-time activists, University stu-
dents, adult spectators and mari-
juana enthusiasts came together
to support recreational marijua-
na use, oppose United States drug
laws and enjoy an afternoon in
the sun.
And this year, the mood was a
little more celebratory than usual.
In its 37th year, Hash Bash had
a significant reform to commemo-
rate: the legalization of medical
marijuana in the state of Michi-
gan.
Proposal 1, which was passed by
63 percent of Michigan voters last
November, legalized the posses-
sion of medical marijuana within
the state for those with a doctor's
recommendation. The law took
effect Saturday, the same day as the
festivities.
Andrew Kent, president of
the University's chapter of the
National Organization for the
Reform of Marijuana Laws - the
 event's primary organizer - said
this year's event attracted more
students than he had ever seen
during his three years at the Uni-
versity.
Between 1,500 and 1,600 peo-

$280K for cancer research
More than 2,900
people gather at .it
Palmer Field for
24-hour fundraiser
By A. BRAD SCHWARTZ
Daily StaffReporter
Students passing by Palmer
Field this weekend encountered
an unusual sight: a ring of tents
and thousands of students con-
stantly circling the track, as well
as flags, banners and a stage with
live musicians.
The spectacle was the seventh-
annual Relay for Life, a 24-hour
fundraiser sponsored by the
American Cancer Society. The
event, according to the ACS web-
site, raised more than $280.000e
this year for cancer research.
"We have three mantras: 'Cel-
ebrate, Remember, and Fight
Back,' " said LSA junior Christine
Schepeler, who was the event's
co-chair. "Celebrating everything
that we're doing, everything we've
done; remembering those who
we've lost and who are here with
us; and fighting back is what we're
doing right now." SAID ALSALAH/Daily
The event consisted of 193 LSA sophomores Noah Neary (left) and Nick Teeda (right) play the lawn game
teams made up of 2,965 registered Cornhole at Relay for Life on Palmer Field Saturday.
participants - 32 more teams and "I attribute that completely to with their friends, the event held
almost 400 more participants than the people on our committee," she special significance for those in
last year's relay. Despite the regis- said, "and how much work they attendance who battled cancer
tered tally, Schepeler estimated were willingto put in this year." themselves.
more than 4,000 people partici- Though many students were Colin Pineau, Saline High
pated throughout the day. present to support the cause See RELAY FOR LIFE, Page 7A

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Ann Arbor resident James William Middlestadt (right) plays a didgeridoo and a
drum while LSA sophomore Zachary Zeidner (bottom) plays a sitar on the Diag just
after Hash Bash on Saturday.
ple gathered on the Diag for the Kent attributed the increased
first half of the event according to turnout to wider acceptance of rec-
Diane Brown, a spokeswoman for reational drug use both on campus
the Department of Public Safety. and across the country.
In 2006, an estimated 900 people "I think that drug use is becom-
turned out for the event, according ing much more normalized in our
to The Michigan Daily. See HASH BASH, Page 7A,


WEATHER HI:37
TOMORROW LO 28

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Summers named ice hockey captain next season
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS................2A ARTS...............................SA
Vol. CXIX, No.124 SUDOKU........3...................3A CLASSIFIEDS....A..............6A
©20S 9TheMichiganDaily OPINION............................4A SPORTSMONDAY. . 18
micbitandailycom " "


2A - Monday, April 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

2A - Monday, April 6, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Pornographic movie banned at Maryland

PIGS ON PARADE

A pornographic movie screen-
ing was cancelled at the University
of Maryland at College Park last
Thursday after the Maryland Leg-
islature threatened to withhold
funds from the university if the
film was shown, the Diamondback
reported.
An amendment proposed by
Sen. Andy Harris stated that fund-
ing for Maryland colleges and uni-
versities would be stopped if they
showed XXX-rated films.
"I don't believe in censorship,"
Maryland Senate President Mike
Miller said in the article, "but at
the same time, I don't think that
film was appropriate in a state
building on a state campus."
Following the movie "Pirates
II: Stagnetti's Revenge," Planned
Parenthood was scheduled to lead
a discussion about safe sex prac-
tices.
"We thought it was an oppor-
tunity to have a dialogue revolv-

ing around pornography as a film
genre and promote student dis-
cussion," said Linda Clement, vice
president for Student Affairs.
To protest the administration's
decision to pull the movie, stu-
dents are organizing a screening
of the film tonight.
SPARTANS CELEBRATE
VICTORY IN DETROIT
An estimated 5,000 Spartan fans
gathered along the Detroit river-
front Saturday night to celebrate
the advancement of the Michigan
State University basketball team
to the National Championship, the
State News reported.
After winning 82-73 against
the University of Connecticut, the
green-and-white-clad crowd of
fans threw beer cups in the air and
screamed in happiness.
The party on the riverfront,
called the Big Dance Outdoor

Watching Party, will occur again
tonight for Spartan fans to watch
the game in downtown Detroit.
UCLA SPONSORS GREEN JOB FAIR
The University of California,
Los Angeles will host a green job
fair because of the increasing
popularity of careers involving
renewable energy, the Daily Bruin
reported.
A green job, also referred to as a
green-collar job, refers to a career
that deals with alternative energy
or environmental issues.
Kathy Sims, director of UCLA's
Career Center,.said students have
expressed a heightened interest in
green jobs over the past few years.
"There is a growing social con-
sciousness that puts sustainability
on a high-priority list," Sims said
in the article.
- STEPHANIE STEINBERG

People participate in the Festifools Parade on Main Street
yesterday. FestiFools is a non-profit production of the
START Project, a University of Michigan Lloyd Hall Scholars
Program initiative.

C, he Mihigan Da-11M
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor is Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:sun.-Thurs. IIa.m. -2 a.m.
734-763-2459
NewsTips news@omichigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Lettersto the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section arts@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
lacob SmilOVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, CaitlinSchneider,
Lindy Stevens
ASSITANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt AaronsonBenjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutter
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman,Chris
A NS SEDITORS:RyanKartje,IanKay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
Alex Prosperi, Colt Rosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor watnich@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer,Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandailycom
tit Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,RobMigrin,nSamWolson
AngelatChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchiar Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell CopyChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisingSales Manager
DISPLAY ADV ERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski Classified salesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production DesignManager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daily (ISSN0745-967)is published Mondaythrough Fridayduring the fall and winter
termsby studentsat the University ofMichigan.Oe ncopyisnavailabefreeof charge to altreaders.
Additionalcopiesmay be pickedup at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for flland winter term
(Setember t~hrougtAprl)niaiU.S.nmil aei$0nt Yr-oni~undshnbsitinsn(tll, nen,,Sringand
Sce m nssue>)at e$225Suhsoptnsitprepnad.nheMicgn Dailyisnnn enT
Associated PressandThe AssociatedCollegiatePress

4

4

4

CRIME NOTES
Macbook stolen Skateboarders
from library flee from cops

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Saturday at about 3:40
p.m.
WHAT: A Macbook Pro was
stolen from a male student on
the fourth floor of the library,
University Police reported. The
computer was valued at $2,000.
Hit and run
damages car
WHERE: Lot NC-27 900
Murfin
WHEN: Saturday at about 5
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown suspect
hit an unattended parked car
and then drove away, Universi-
ty Police reported. The parked
car suffered minor damage.

WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Saturday at about 7:45
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
10 skateboarders were skating
in front of the Union, Universi-
ty Police reported. When police
showed up the skateboarders
were gone.
Boy goes missing
from the Diag
WHERE: 700 Block East Uni-
versity
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:40
p.m.
WHAT: A mother called to
report her missing son who was
last seen on the Diag, Univer-
sity Police reported. The police
located the boy and returned
him to his family.

Astronomy
poetryslam
WHAT: A reading of astron-
omy-related poems written
by students and faculty.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Alexander G.
Ruthven Museum Building

Invisible women
WHAT: Investigative jour-
nalist Silja Talvi talks about
the crisis of mothers in jail
in the United States prison
system.
WHO: Department of Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Graduate
School Assembly Hall

Classic folk
Cuba and U.S. concert
relations lecture WHAT: Social activi
cnoxfit Si Kah h x

1Detroit police officers con-
fiscated 5,000 pillows from
citizens looking to partici-
pate ina pillow fight at Campus
Martius Park Saturday, The
Detroit News reported. Peo-
ple on social networking sites
organized the fight, which was
going to be one of 50 occurring
simultaneously around the
world.
Men's gymnastics won
their first Big Ten title
in nine years. Sopho-
mores Thomas Kelley and
Chris Cameron finished first
and second in the all-around.
,FOR MORE SEE SPORTS MONDAY,
INSIDE
Hardee's Monster Thick-
burger was named the
least healthy drive-thru
cheeseburger in America,
msnbc.com reported. The
caloric intake of the cheese-
burger is equivalent to con-
suming six McDonald's
hamburgers and has the sodi-
um equivalent of 84 saltine
crackers.

4

st and
lli1 n r

WHAT: Jake Colvin, expert
in United States and Cuba
relations, will discuss the
Obama administration's new
policies on Cuba.
WHO: The Roosevelt Insti-
tute
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30
p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall, room
1110

songwriter ai.nnn wi per-
form old-time country songs.
Tickets cost $15.
WHO: Michigan Union Tick-
et Office and The Ark
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

I

.

take
this summer
Northwestern University Summer Session offers
hundreds of opportunities to get ahead, catch up,
or try something new. Classes are convenient and
accessible, with day and evening offerings in both
Evanston and Chicago. Whatever your interest
might be, we invite you to study at Northwestern
this summer.
SChoose from more than 300 classes

ry ".3 '
also
i.;
C
k -
i
i%
r,
a;
i
t,
t
t

I


4

4

4

langu<

View 2009 summer courses at
www.northwestern.edu/summer

"asst
rHWEST]
JNIVERSITY

flexible evening schedules
state-of-the-art studio and rehearsal space
multidisciplinary approach
leading-edge technology
personalized attention
designed for the working artist
718-488-1000 ext. 3031 BROOKLYN CAMPUS
Donna Uchizono, Artistic Director
newmediamta@brooklyn.liu.edu IDNGESIAND
www.brooklyn.liu.edu/nmp

4

summer session

4


o The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 6, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, April 6, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Mich. inaugurates
medical marijuana
program today
The first wave of what could be
tens of thousands of people signing
up for Michigan's medical-marijua-
na program is expected in Lansing
on Monday.
For Greg Francisco of Paw Paw,
who is organizing the mass submis-
sion in the state capital, it will be a
sweetmoment after a decade of work-
ing to legalize medical marijuana.
"In a year, we're going to look
back and say, 'What was the fuss
all about?' said Francisco, execu-
tive director of the Michigan Medi-
cal Marijuana Association. "People
have been using medical marijuana
in this state all along. All this does is
give them some legal protection."
Rules for Michigan's medical-
marijuana program went into effect
Saturday, and the state begins taking
applications Monday. The first cards
will be issued to patients later this
month. But questions linger about
how the program will work in prac-
tice, and resolving all the confusion
may require additional legislation or
intervention by the courts.
DETROIT
Winter storm
warning issued for
southeast Michigan
A winter storm warning has
been issued for much of southeast-
ern lower Michigan, where upward
of 10 inches of early spring snow is
expected.
Meteorologist Matt Mosteiko,
of the National Weather Service in
White Lake Township, says Sunday
afternoon rain will change over to
snow around midnight. The warn-
ing will be in effect from 11 p.m.
Sunday until 8 p.m. Monday.
MosteikosaidOakland,Macomb,
Livingston, Genesee, Sanilac, Ing-
ham and St. Clair counties are
expecting six to 10 inches of snow.
Wayne and Washtenaw Counties
are expecting four to eight inches,
while the Grand Rapids area is
expecting two to four inches.
Mosteiko said the heaviest snow
will end about 1 p.m. Monday.
Temperatures are expected to
risegJsto the SQs by Wedoesday and
into the 60s by Saturday.
WHEELER, Texas
Wildfires blaze
throughout Texas
Firefighters from the Texas-
Oklahoma border to the Gulf Coast
struggled yesterday to contain wild-
fires that have destroyed homes,
killed cattle and charred thousands
of acres.
The largest of those fires, an
15,000-acre blaze near the Panhan-
die town of Wheeler, destroyed eight
homes and 26 outbuildings, includ-
ing barns and garages. An unknown
number of cattle were killed, accord-
ing to the Texas Forest Service.
Forest Service spokeswoman
Jeanne Eastham said yesterday

that the fire was about 25 percent
contained. Strong winds continued
to hamper firefighting efforts there
and elsewhere.
Four houses, two businesses and
six outbuildings were destroyed in a
fire in Aransas County on the Gulf
Coast late yesterday afternoon. The
} fire, which covered about 70 acres,
threatened at least 100 homes.
PITTSBURGH
Fight over urinating
dog lured two police
into ambush
A 911 call that brought two police
officers to a home where they were
ambushed, and where a third was
also later killed during a four-hour
siege, was precipitated by a fight
between the gunman and his moth-
er over a dog urinating in the house.
The Saturday argument between
Margaret and Richard Poplawski
escalated to the point that she
threatened to kick him out and she
called police to do it, according to
a 12-page criminal complaint and
affidavit filed late Saturday.
When officers Paul Sciullo II
and Stephen Mayhle arrived, Mar-
 garet Poplawski opened the door
and told them to come in and take
her 23-year-old son, apparently
unaware he was standing behind
her with a rifle, the affidavit said.
Hearing gunshots, she spun around
to see her son with the gun and ran
to the basement.
"What the hell have you done?"
she shouted.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Ban lifted
on coverage
of war dead

Media able to cover
war deaths after lift
of 18-year ban
DOVER AIR FORCE BASE,
Del. (AP) - Media witnessed a
ceremony yesterday night for the
arrival of a Virginia airman killed
in Afghanistan, marking the end
of an 18-year ban on news cover-
age of returning U.S. war dead.
After receiving permission
from family members, the mili-
tary opened Dover Air Force
Base in Delaware to the press.
An eight-member team wear-
ing white gloves and camou-
flage fatigues carried the body of
30-year-old Air Force Staff Sgt.
Phillip Myers of Hopewell, Va.,
off a jet in a solemn ceremony on
a cool, clear night.
Myers was killed April 4 near
Helmand province, Afghani-
stan, when he was hit with an
improvised explosive device, the
Department of Defense said.
The ceremony under the yel-
lowish haze of airport flood-
lights took about 20 minutes with
Myers' wife and other family
members in attendance.
Myers was a member of the
48th Civil Engineer Squadron
with the Royal Air Force in Lak-

enheath, England, one of the
bases the U.S. Air Force uses in
the country. He was awarded
a Bronze Star for bravery last
year in recognition of his efforts
in support of Operation Endur-
ing Freedom, the Department of
Defense said.
The new Pentagon policy gives
families a choice of whether to
admit the press to ceremonies at
Dover, home to the nation's larg-
est military mortuary and the
entry point to the U.S. for service
personnel killed overseas.
Critics of the previous policy
had said the government was try-
ing to hide the human cost of war.
President Barack Obama had
asked for a review of the ban, and
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
has said that the blanket restric-
tion made him uncomfortable.
The administration will let fami-
lies decide whether to allow pho-
tographs.
For example, if several caskets
arrive on the same flight, news
coverage will be allowed only for
those whose families have given
permission.
The ban was put in place by
President George H.W. Bush in
1991, at the time of the Persian
Gulf War. From the start, it was
cast as a way to shield grieving
families.

South Korean protesters scuffle with police officers during a rally against North Korea's missiles near the U.S. Embassy in
Seoul, South Korea yesterday.
North- Korea msil
launch tests Oba-ma

Officials defend the
response to shooting
in Binghamton, NY

President responds
with call to U.N. to
condemn launch
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - The
U.S. and its allies sought to punish
North Korea's defiant launch of a
rocket that apparently fizzled into
the Pacific, holding an emergency
U.N. meeting to respond to an act
that some believe was a long-range
missile test.
President Barack Obama, faced
with his first global security crisis,
called foraninternationalresponse
and condemned North Korea for
threatening the peace and stability
of nations "near and far." Minutes
after liftoff, Japan requested the
emergency Security Council ses-
sion in New York.
South Korean President Lee
Myung-bak told a nationwide radio
broadcast Monday that "North
Korea's reckless act of threatening
regional and global security can-
not have any justification." South
Korea's National Assembly adopt-.
ed a resolution condemning the
rocket launch as a "serious provo-
cation."
U.S. and South Korean officials

claim the entire rocket, includ-
ing whatever payload it carried,
ended up in the ocean after yester-
day's launch, but many world lead-
ers fear the launch indicates the
capacity to fire a long-range mis-
sile. Pyongyang claims it launched
a communications satellite into
orbit that is now transmitting data
and patriotic songs.
"North Korea broke the rules,
once again, by testing a rocket that
could be used for long-range mis-
siles," Obama said in Prague. "It
creates instability in their region,
around the world. This provo-
cation underscores the need for
action, not just this afternoon in
the U.N. Security Council, but in
our determination to prevent the
spread of these weapons."
Council members met for three
hours yesterday, seeking a unified
response, but the meeting ended
with a deadlock, breaking up for
the night without issuing even a
customary preliminary statement
of condemnation.
Diplomats privy to the closed-
door talks say China, Russia, Libya
and Vietnamwere concerned about
further alienating and destabiliz-
ing North Korea.
"We're now in a very sensitive

moment," Chinese Ambassador
Zhang Yesui said after the talks.
"Our position is that all countries
concerned should show restraint
and refrain from taking actions
that might lead to increased ten-
sions."
The U.S. Britain, France and
Japan drafted aproposal for areso-
lution that could be adopted by the
end of the week. It aims to toughen
existing economic sanctions.
Mexican Ambassador Claude
Heller said the council would
reconvene Monday.
In Tokyo, Foreign Minister
Hirofumi Nakasone said Japan
was pushing hard for a resolution
and lobbying "respective nations"
by telephone.
South Korean Foreign Minister
Yu Myung-hwantold lawmakers in
Seoul that "all countries acknowl-
edge" the launch violates Security
Council Resolution 1718, passed
after North Korea's 2006 nuclear
test. "I think discussions will move
forward around that."
Using a possible loophole inbU.N.
sanctions that bar the North from
ballistic missile activity, Pyong-
yang claimed it was exercising its
right to peaceful space develop-
ment.

Response time a
factor in death
of 13 people at
immigration center
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. (AP) -
Even if police officers had imme-
diately entered the immigrant
center where a gunman had just
shot down 13 people, the victims'
injuries were so severe that none
would have survived, a county
prosecutor said Sunday.
But police didn't enter the
American Civic Association until
nearly 45 minutes after the first 911
calls came in at 10:30 a.m. Friday.
They began removing the wound-
ed about 15 minutes after that.
It took more than two hours
to clear the building. Survivors
reported huddling for hours in a
basement, not knowing whether
they were still in danger after
the gunman, 41-year-old Jiverly
Wong, killed 13 people.
Medical examiners who con-
ducted autopsies reported that the
victims' injuries were so severe
they would not have survived,

Broome County District Attorney
Gerald F. Mollen said.
"We definitively can say nobody
was shot after police arrival, and
nobody who had been shot could
have been saved even if the police
had walked in the door within the
first minute," Mollensaid.
The prosecutor's comments
came at a news conference Sunday,
an hour before officials released a
list of names and home countries
of the victims.
Four Chinese were amongthose
killed, and a Chinese student was
also shot in the arm and leg but
survived, officials said. The other
victims came from Haiti, Paki-
stan, the Philippines, Iraq, Brazil,
Vietnam and the United States.
The first 911calls came in atl10:30
a.m., police Chief Joseph Zikuski
said at a news conference. The call-
ers spoke broken English, and it
took dispatchers 2 minutes to sort
out what was happening, he said.
Patrol officers arrived at 10:33
a.m., five minutes before a wound-
ed receptionist called police to
report a gunman in the building,
Zikuski said. Police had earlier
said it was that call that brought
them to the immigration center.

Master's Degree
Flexible .full-time or part-time evening schedules

Strategic Public Relations
Corporate Communications
Integrated Marketing
Communications

GMA iGR 1LST CA 1DA IOAT I PAT
GRE 1 ME IAO I Only KaplanOffers: Kaplan's programs
The MostPersonalizedPrep govirtuall GMAT prep
UnmatchedExpertise is now available live
Gusranteed Results Online.
Visittkaptestcom/150rebate
otall81-800-KAP-TES
*NOmnu


4A - Monday, April 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

74C e firIC4,&Dan 4:3at,&lm

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM1 THE DAILY
The road to recovery
Government should take responsibility for saving Detroit
At this point, the auto industry's cries for help are nothing
new. Chrysler, Ford and General Motors are struggling and
in desperate need of government assistance. A few months
ago, the federal government promised to help these companies if
they meet certain conditions for revamping their businesses. While
the companies struggle to accommodate the government's demands,
the government continues to disparage the industry's progress,
going so far as to force out GM CEO Rick Wagoner. If the govern-
ment is going to take such an active role in the industry's manage-
ment, then it must outline a clear vision to resuscitate the industry
while assuming the responsibility for seeing the crisis to its end.

Last Wednesday, GM's Wagoner resigned
at the urging of President Barack Obama
after a presidential task force claimed that
GM had not made significant progress in
its attempts to restructure. Wagoner was
replaced by Chief Operating Officer Fritz
Henderson, granting GM 60 more days of
federal funding. At the conclusion of this
period, GM is expected to have put forth
significant plans to restructure. The fed-
eral government will cut off aid if these
demands are not met. The government also
told Chrysler it has only 30 days to com-
plete a merger with Fiat SpA before federal
aid will be discontinued.
While the possible side effects of the auto
industry's collapse have been widely dis-
cussed for the state and the nation, students
may not realize just how much is at stake
for the University as well. Automakers like
Ford and GM contribute to the many pro-
grams and scholarships at the University.In
addition, many parents of in-state students
work for the auto industry - or for busi-
nesses dependent upon the auto industry
- impacting their ability to afford tuition.
And University graduates often go on to
work for the auto industry, meaning these
car companies' troubles directly impact
students' ability to find jobs after college.
In light of the auto industry's importance
to the University - as well as the rest of
the country - it's important that the fed-

eral government make a concerted effort
to rescue the industry. And while the gov-
ernment did agree to support these failing
automakers, it needs to do more than simply
make demands and threaten to cut off aid
if the companies don't restructure quickly
enough. Having involved itself in the prob-
lem, the Obama administration now has a
responsibility to the auto industry and to
the people dependent upon the jobs the
industry sustains. Forcing out Wagoner
was only an acceptable move if the govern-
ment is prepared to offer better leadership
for GM and the industry.
But the government doesn't seem to have
a clear plan to fix the problem, instead plac-
ing mandate after mandate on the compa-
nies that won't necessarily create positive
outcomes. The auto industry needs a long-
term solution to its problems, and the fed-
eral government has yet to produce such a
solution.
The government knows what the stakes
are - it understands the dire repercussions
for leaving these companies for dead. It's
evident that millions of Michigan residents,
including University students are depen-
dent on.these companies.
But just understanding the stakes isn't
enough. It's time for the federal govern-
ment to offer a coherent plan. Having fired
Wagoner, Obama has implicitly agreed to
do a better job than he did.

TAE lO LE
A court decision doesn't change
what's right and what's wrong.
- Bryan English, a spokesman for the Iowa Family Policy Center, commenting on a ruling by the
Iowa Supreme Court that will allow gay marriage, as reported on Friday by The New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI| T T A E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
Hw often do you H Have you been to
'lou kowl Ithik Detrot g oDtot ntigi er tt
getsa dretaonIwas t-.j wasn relae
therefor the Final four this 0h, all the time! The Super+
weekend, and it was rcking bowl the AStar Game, the°Isbakakapot
.Is s Cu paradeWt'agreat« *ti
to t
Y ¢ 0
S* w
Wrong move, Rackham
L astThursday,aDailyviewpoint enrolled at all times increases Ph.D. approved the measure with little
written by Associate Rack- completion rates and decreases the advance notice on Dec. 10, conve-
ham Dean Peggy McCracken time to degree by creating a closer niently at the end of the fall term.
extolled the virtues relationship between Ph.D. students Weiss announced the decision on
of the Rackham and their advisers. These arguments Dec. 17, which stunned many gradu-
Graduate School's are reasonable - except there is no ate students with concerns about
proposed continu- empirical evidence supporting them. the proposal. To this day, although
ous enrollment On its website, Rackham links to a she has met with representatives of
policy (More guid- document entitled "Doctoral Degree CEWG, Weiss has refused to pro-
ance for graduates, Completion: Conceptual Framing" to vide substantive written answers to
03/02/09). Accord- support its proposed policy. The doc- questions from concerned students,
ing to McCracken, ument, developed by the University's instead referring us to the empty
the proposal rep- PATRICK Center of the Study of Higher and rhetoric of Rackham's website.
resents a com- Postsecondary Education, stresses
mon sense way O'MAHEN that inclusive faculty-student inter-
to improve fac- actions, adequate funding and other Graduate
ulty mentorship of research and healthcare support for schOOls
graduate students and cut the 33 per- graduate students have improved . i shoul
cent drop-out rate of Ph.D. students completion rates. new 1dea should
at the University. The logical course of action would
Yet in a survey conducted last be to directly address the underlying be discontinued.
month by Rackham Student Gov- problems of inadequate funding pack-
ernment, 807 of the 1,241 graduate- ages by developing effective faculty
student respondents who knew of mentoring programs - especially for
the proposed policy thought it would culturally marginalized students But despite its aura of inevitabil-
affect them negatively. We graduate - and expanding mental health ser- ity, we can still stop the continu-
students may be notoriously paranoid vices. Instead, Weiss and McCracken ous enrollment steamroller. On Apr.
about administration. But this time, express the naive belief that requir- 16, the University Board of Regents
we have good reason. ing advisors to certify their students needs 9 approve tuitipnchasngghat
The truth is this: Rackham's con- are enrolled every term will magical- make the policy work. CEWG has
tinuous enrollment proposal is fatally ly tighten the advisor-student bond already signed up a pair of speakers
flawed. It is poorly designed without and increase completion rates. Yet in to oppose the policy at the meeting,
meaningful input from the students February, when an organization of but we need more. With the support
and departments that it purports to graduate students called Continuous of the Graduate Employees' Organi-
help. Administrators are using laugh- Enrollment Working Group (of which zation, CEWG will be staging a pro-
able arguments to support it. And we Itam a member) sent Rackham a letter test prior to the regents' meeting.
must stop it. with specific questions challenging Show up and make your voice heard.
Continuous enrollment is simple the scholarly support of Continuous Talk to your GEO Steward for more
in theory. Many Ph.D. students who Enrollment, the reply ignored our information. In addition, talk with
have completed coursework and questions and instead offered empty your faculty advisors and department
taken preliminary exams have a sta- platitudes about continued commu- chairs about this policy and encour-
tus called detached study, which nication. age them to express their concerns
means they're not officially regis- This attitude has been typical of to Rackham. Finally, contact the nine
tered and don't pay tuition. Many of Rackham administrators throughout regents (http://www.regents.umich.
these students conduct research at the process. Far from "benefitting edu/about/regents.html) and let
locations far from Ann Arbor. Con- greatly from numerous discussions them know your views.
tinuous enrollment would require with students, faculty, program Together, we can force Rackham
all graduate students to register each directors and chairs," as McCracken to abandon this ill-considered policy
semester. Rackham Dean Janet Weiss blithely claims in her viewpoint, the change. Then, Ph.D. students, faculty
claims the policy would result in no development of the program has been members and Weiss can all sit down
changes in financial aid - tuition for conducted in an arrogant, top-down as equals and develop a policy that
all candidates would be cut to free up fashion with little involvement of the adequately addresses the needs of
funding for tuition waivers for candi- students who continuous enrollment students.
dates on detached study. claims to help and faculty who will
Weiss and McCracken have argued have to make the program work. - Patrick O'Mahen can be

repeatedly that having students The Rackham Advisory Board reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

4

4

4

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
S F I SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Safer health facilities and
emergency care save lives

ing countries.'
countries are i
they might not1
lack of advance
These people a

TO THE DAILY: hospital thanr
Tomorrow is World Health Day, an annual are. Establishi
event that focuses on the issue of healthcare that provide em
infrastructure. This year, it aims to tackle the data on illness
safety of facilities and the readiness of health health care bet
workers who treat those affected by emer- immunizations
gencies. While we in the United States worry of people in the
about losing our health insurance, Cyclone ties safe, we car
Nargis left 138,366 people dead or missing in care costs, and
Myanmar and the earthquake in southwestern call or send a le
China's Sichuan province killed 87,476 people. asking him or h
Even though these events seem very far away health facilitie
from our daily lives, they're devastating to our worldwide.
global neighbors.
Just as disastrous as the cyclone is the medical Jangwon Oh
infrastructure in Myanmar and other develop- LSA freshman

When people in underdeveloped
injured and sent to the hospitals,
be cured perfectly because of the
ed medical facilities and doctors.
re much more likely to die in the
citizens of developed countries
ng safe health-related facilities
ergency care, collect and analyze
and deaths, deliver longer-term
fore and after an emergency and
services are critical to the health
region. By keeping health facili-
n save more lives, decrease health
safeguard social stability. Please
tter to your local congressperson
er to support bills that help keep
s safe in the United States and

BHAVIK LATHIA I

4

True progress for social justice

JASON MAHAKIAN

E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU

We !AQF ZAIIN&e MoR ltY\
,-0 HELL, IN -THe FIdT
A(AtAerST cZA4'CEIZ, WHAT fslgE)
)z. OM E DAV,
TWO CRCEAtf CAUSES?

During my freshman year of college, I saw passion and
possibility on this campus. I saw individuals and groups
dedicating themselves to social justice issues with an
intensity Ihad never seen in high school. Here were people
determined to try and take on some of the most pressing
issues facing our society: poverty, malnutrition, human
rights abuses, massive environmental degradation, insti-
tutionalized and personal bigotry, war and genocide. This
excited me more than anything else, and I was more than
ready to get involved in this campus community.
I jumped in headfirst during my first semester at the
University. For the first month or so, I spent more time
learning about different issues and organizations than I
did in class. I started to notice things that began to turn
me off from the organizations in which I was involved, but
at the time, I couldn't put my observations into words. As a
result, my extracurricular involvement began to shrink to
more manageable hours. In retrospect, this was probably
a good thing. I was in way over my head as a freshman.
In college, away from my family for the first time in
my life, I began to feel isolated and lonely. I don't know
if all freshmen go through this, but by the beginning of
the second semester, I felt increasingly alone on a campus
with tens of thousands of my peers. I had somehow con-
vinced myself to take classes that I had very little interest
in and convinced myself to get involved in organizations
that dealt with issues I had little passion for. At one point,
though I never went to see a psychiatrist, I was more than
likely clinically depressed.
After a summer and a semester of mental recovery,
I was finally able to verbalize some of the things that I
had noticed during my freshman year that had turned me
away from campus activism. As a result of my own isola-
tion, I was able to see and describe the isolation on this
campus.
In the midst of excitement and action, I saw groups of
people trying to change the minds, attitudes and actions

of the campus community, but I also saw them work-
ing almost exclusively within their own, isolated nich-
es. Groups with seemingly similar goals were working
toward these goals separately - they were competing for
the same resources and sometimes even working against
each other. There were some organizations that broke
away from this trend, but they were few and far between.
I felt that if only this one thing could change - if we
could confront the isolation on this campus - it would
take us that much farther in creating and sustaining a
more effective form of campus activism. It was less than a
year ago that I told this to somebody and the word spread,
and the idea of an alliance of social justice organizations
was first envisioned.
This alliance, consisting of a fluid membership of over
two dozen organizations, came to be known as the Pro-
gressive Alliance. In about a year since it was first envi-
sioned, it came together this past weekend to put on the
first-ever Michigan Social Justice Conference. Social jus-
tice organizations and activists from different corners of
the University came to share their issues and experiences
with the broader community. The point was to bridge the
gap in understanding between individuals from different
backgrounds and, in particular, to highlight the intercon-
nectedness of many social justice issues. The hope was
that this would help conference participants to uncover
the structural issues at the root of many societal problems
and would help in building a more unified campus activ-
ism. In this regard, it was a success.
But this conference was only a first step. There is still
much work to be done and we invite all people, with their
unique passions and creativity, to join us. If you are at all
interested in joining us, please contact theprogressiveal-
liance@gmail.com and visit http://www.umsjc.blogspot.
com for more information about the conference.
Bhavik Lathia is a member of the Progressive Alliance.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 6, 2009 - 5A


Lopez tells 'The
Soloist'story
By HANS YADAV on his violin. The obvious ques-
DailyArts Writer tion is 'what is his story, where
did this guy get his training,
In 2005, thousands of read- and why does he only have two
ers followed a true story that strings?'"
was bizarre, wonderful and As it turns out, Ayers was once
heartbreaking all at once. The a prodigy at Julliard - yes, the
Los Angeles Times ran a con- Julliard School of music in New
tinuing column about a home- York City.
less street musician named "I realized it was goingto take
Nathaniel Anthony Ayers. His a while to get the story out of
story, a struggle for redemption him, so I kept going back to learn
and a testament to the power more about his past each time,"
of friendship, is being adapted Lopez said.
into a feature-length film called Once, Lopez witnessed Ayers
"The Soloist," due to hit theaters scratching a list of names onto
Apr. 24. the sidewalk. When Lopez asked
Steve Lopez discovered Ayers whose names they were, Ayers

"Carnies of the world unite!"

A careless carnival

while scouring the poverty-
stricken streets of L.A.'s Skid
Row for a story. The beautiful
music emanating from Ayers's
tattered violin captured Lopez's
attention. The more the col-
umnist got to know Ayers, the
stranger the information he
unearthed about Ayers's past
became. Lopez revealed his side
of the story in a recent phone
interview.
"What struck me at first was
simply that (Ayers) might be a
column for me," Lopez said. "I
heard some music and turned
and saw what I think any jour-
nalist would have seen, which
was this striking image of a guy
whose story needed to be told."
He continued, "It was a guy
playing classical music really
well despite missing two strings

How an L.A.
reporter found
musical talent
on the streets.
revealed they were his Julliard
classmates.
Lopez's conversations with
Ayers showed him to be a talent-
ed musician who has a deep love
for his craft. Lopez described
Ayers's energy as both noble and
inspirational.
"The irony is that you can see
this man living on the streets,
See LOPEZ INTERVIEW, Page 8A

Director Greg Mottola's follow-up to
'Superbad' fails to live up to its predecessor
By Andrew Lapin I Daily Film Editor

There are many details about
the world of college-student,
stay-at-home
summer jobs
that "Adven-
tureland" gets Adventureland
scarily right.
Employeesrou- At the State,
tinely smuggle Showcase and
drugs and Qualityl6
alcohol to work Miramax
right under the
noses of oblivi-
ous bosses who take their jobs way
too seriously. Parents walk in on
after-hours make-out sessions,

then try to make conversation. All
the workplace types are there: the
inexplicably hot girl, the musician
dude in his late 20s whom every-
one else thinks is the coolest guy
ever and the weirdo Jewish athe-
ist.
"Adventureland" captures
its intended atmosphere. It also
makes the most out of its 1987 time
period with a cheese-tastic sound-
track that includes music from
Whitesnake and a Foreigner trib-
ute band.
The problem is that writer-
director Greg Mottola couldn't

decide whether he should exag-
gerate the familiarity for comic
effect (like he did previously in
"Superbad") or use the characters
as stand-ins for the whole of dis-
affected youth (like John Hughes
did so brilliantly in "The Breakfast
Club"). Ultimately, he plays it safe
and tries grabbing from both ends
of the spectrum. But any carnie
worth his salt knows that playing
it safe never won anyone a giant-
ass stuffed panda.
Protagonist James Brennan
(Jesse Eisenberg, "The Squid and
the Whale"), a liberal arts grad
who has never worked a day in
his life, finds himself resorting to
the game booths at the local run-
down amusement park in order to
pay for graduate school. Despite

being recently dumped, he man-
ages to strike up a romance with a
cute co-worker (Kristen Stewart,
"Twilight"), even as she screws the
park's slick-haired, bass-playing
married mechanic (Ryan Reyn-
olds, "Van Wilder"). Without any
goofy subplot about the goings-on
of the park, the careless summer
flirtations between these people
become the driving force of the
film, for better or worse.
There are some colorful back-
ground characters just begging
to break out of the shadows and
steal the showyvrotnotaby Bill
Hader and Kristen Wiig of "Sat-
urday Night Live" fame; who play
a husband-and-wife management
duo. They have some funny bits, but
See ADVENTURELAND, Page 8A

Montreal's newest hipster hitmakers

By SARAH CHAVEY
Daily Arts Writer
There's something in the water in Montre-
al; A substance has leaked into its icy waters,
turning lucky victims into
hipster musicians. Sheer
odds say that, sooner or later,
this phenomenon is bound to W
backfire, turning out lacklus-
ter copycats fallen ill from an Gloves
overdose of"scene." about agirl
But fortunately for front- a
man Charles F. and the rest of Paper Sag
the lads who make up Mon-
treal's latest export band, Winter Gloves has
escaped so harrowing a fate. Forget gloves; the

band's first studio album, about a girl, sports an
energetic brand of party pop that's warm and
fuzzy enough to keep listeners nice and toasty.
Learning from their fellow Canadians, Win-
ter Gloves pulls some inspiration from a few
more established hipster bands. There is a sub-
tle sexuality to the combination of drummer
Patrick Sayers's pulsing "umtz-ah" drum beats
and Charles F.'s raspy falsetto, yet the sound is
still rough around the edges and rave-able.
Winter Gloves carves out a unique sound
comprised of dominating keyboard and
rumbling bass. A low bass guitar grumbles
throughout the album, sounding almost like
white noise that actually adds depth to the
dance beats supplied by the keys and drums.
Charles's lilting tenor is just edgy enough to

cut through the bouncing backup, punctuat-
ing the music with plenty of perky "oh uh ohs,"
"oooos" and "hey heys."
Between his frequent "come-ons" and hand-
A generous helping of
warm party pop from
our northern neighbors.
claps are. surprisingly thoughtful lyrics, espe-
cially for a native French speaker writing in
See WINTER GLOVES, Page 8A

WANT TO COVER
LOCAL ARTS EVENTS?
Work for our Fine Arts staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an application.



Spring/Summer Spaces Available!
STUDENT CO-OP HOUSING
Community Living for College Students
2 & 4 Month Spring/Summer Contracts
(Fall/Winter 8-month contracts also available)
Low Monthly charges include:
-Single room
-Full or partial meal plans
-All utilities and Internet
- Laundry, parking and more!
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414
www.icC.coop
Save some cash - make some friends!



6A- Monday, April 6, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

parking'
02
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Farest
326E. Madison
520 Packard
51t EHoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts will buy you FREE
LUNCH ! First 10 new visitors daily,
weekdays 12-3pm. THIS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!!AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
I bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Famished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATES$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included! !
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
1Anartments A vailabld/I

Ud Town Reai
Houses Available
for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton PI. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
1300 Broadway $2400

$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT on remain-
ing spaces at 4 Eleven Lofts -
734.998.4400 4elevenlofts.com
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Full '09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Offstreet prkg, Indry, water
incl. 734.223.7777.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
.*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
Fall 09. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
1001 S. FOREST
- Great Campus Location!
- Large 2-bedrooms for 2 - 4 people!
- (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagment.com
1346 GEDDES
- 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
- Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
" (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com

3
1
1

1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
- Great Old West Side location!
. Large I & 2-bedrooms!
- (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.comn
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin Idry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is H UGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
331 CATHERINE
- 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
- Kerrytown! m-need we say more?!?!
- Or separate 3-bdrm apts; we'll accom-
modate you!
"(734)668-1100
- www.varsitymangment.cont
331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May - May!
" 1-bedroom private entrance and porch!
" (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM APT, avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site lndry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappotnagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ]dry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.comi
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close tothe Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhlitemanagement.com
418 E. WASHINGTON
- Grad Students Galore!
" Mature, quiet study environment!
* (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
515 & 521 Walnuti
- CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
' 1 & 2 bdrms of all shapes and sizes!
* (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
- Just off West Quad!
" Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 510 Catherine.
only I mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3400 neg. plus util.734-996-1991.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Owmmn n a# etfindi

816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May -09 to August -09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonswhitemanagement.com
848 TAPPAN
- ON Central Campus near B School!
- Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy 1-bedroom!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
917 PACKARD
- Business & Law School so close!
- Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
" (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.con
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allnandpropeties.com for
sore info or cll 734-973-7368.
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
AARDVARKSaAND WOLVER-
INES!. Your uttenion please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialzee
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathontravias@sbeglobal.ne
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
oesce the y
4*4 ,d OW
19 Ged an oc
19 Great Locations

Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.930
www.anrtairborapa tment,.iet
or Visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.

FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/ni/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
*3 BDRM HOUSE, free prkg. & ldry.,
close to campus, 734-649-7571.
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
arVarmity
Management
625 Chuh t
1734)00-tt
varsllvhS
Mesalseaasul
arlal Fdesl
GraAlialtmnI l
cmllltra sa peaallsam

--- - - - - - - - - - - -
WilsonWhite
I M A N A G E M E NT
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST G0.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
I will waivethe application fee and reduce
, security deposittoonemonth'srent
I 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
t www.wilsowhitemanagement.com
Roans, studius, anid1-Is 8-hedroon
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. apt. 1114
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C.
Free ldry. $2650+ util. avail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkgno pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehseng@comcast.net
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a lit of
available properties.
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quet &ise-Hmghr -nHcrnmrpus
- Call BrianvTowsic
734-663-1530
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdnn. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 5. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

www.afonhookcom,734-65-5620j

RELEASE DATE- Monday, April 6, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 28*'Precariously 48 Stir thefire
1 Narrow-necked 1 Cry loudly situated 49 Paparazzi target
pear 2 On-the-job 29 More azure 50 _ and kicking
5 James who protection org. 31 Cheerleading unit 52 It can be chronic
robbed trains 3 Pillow covering 33 "Let's leave _ or shooting
10 Wine glass part 4 Drummer's that" 53 Bear among the
14 Pasty-faced crashers 34 Mediocre stars
15 Laud, as virtues 5 Rockers 37 Pilate's "Behold!" 54 Hari
16 Drive-_ window Tull 38 Late 55 "We're not
17 "Pow!" relative 6 Many a security 41 Trounces serving liquor"
18 Immune nystem guard 44 Annuping penple biely
agent 7 One ofAA's 46James Bond, e .g 57 Brintroduction
19 Litter's littlest twelve 47 Piercing looks 58 Make, as awager
20 *Shu iLewis 8 Sun, in Spain ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
puppet 9 Building
22 '50s first lady addition M A R Y J A N E LAD Y D I
23 50-and-over org. 10 Layer C H A M O N I X I MB E A T
24Open-bodied 11*Duster'sfindata I N T H E A C T M E S S R S
truck crime scene A
26 Moon mission 12 Tennessee-born B AS L E NO NSWCENE
name country singer BoBs LEO SCENA
29 Photo Ford ALA R H Y M E S OQ ROQS
enlargement 13 Likea subdued S ERG I O ENT I R E T Y
30 Nogoodnik trumpet BOQO K E M D A N N O
31 Really punch 21 Biblical spy P L E A S U R E E R U P T S
32 Hosp.scanners 22 Paw's mate? T E R P M E A S L E E O S
35 Einguish, with 24Transmission B A S E S C S 1 ANT E
36 "Shh!"(and a hint 25 Opera box
tothefeature 26MontBlanc's A T 0 M I C R E L A T E T O
shared by the range T A L E N T E N T R Y F E E
answersto 27Protruded-lip S T E R E O S T A Y S F O R
starred clues) expression xwordeditor@aol.com 04/06/ 9
39 Leaal Lance

40 _ away: hide on 1 0 3 0 5
a ship ,4 15
42 Hit, in billiards
43 Puquin and in 15
Nicole Smith
45 Jeff Gordon was200 21
its 1993 Rookie 23
oftthe Year
47 Cavern 2 2 a a
48 Sold for a big
profit, as tickets 30 01
50 Gucci of fashion
51 Brts buob tube 35 3 m3
52 'At all innocent 40 01 02
56 Miscellany
57 Soft-tipped pen as
brand
59 Cnil Warcolor 4 o 4
60 Dole's 1888
running mute
61tGive up 0057 "
82 This, in
Tegucigalpa 60 01
63 Draws away from
shore on64
64 Fore units
65 Swedish auto By Elizabeth A. Long
(c)2009 Tribune MediaServices, Inc.

7 ;241 10 1 12 13
16
19
22
29 32 33 34
38
43 44
47
52 5 54 55
59
62
65
n o4ro6ros

Deadline for lineads is11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per lineforithe first issue and $1.75 per line for each additional
consecutiveissue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts areuavailable- contact our staff for details
* Students may receivea 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, coash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

4

4



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 6, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, April 6, 2009 - 7A

At conference,
activists praise
pot law changes

People from around
the Midwest convene
to talk drug policy
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
More than100 students and mari-
juana policy activists from through-
out the Great Lakes region met at
the Best Western Executive Plaza
on Jackson Road yesterday to dis-
cuss issues of drug addiction, policy
reform and medical marijuana.
The event, the Midwest Confer-
ence of Students for Sensible Drug
Policy, was held to increase aware-
ness about marijuana and allow
attendees to network with other
activists.
"The conference has been a huge
success, with residents from nearly
every state in the Midwest," said
Chris Chiles, the executive director
of the University's chapter of SSDP.
"The turnout is phenomenal."
The conference aimed to bring
drug law advocates together, Chiles
said. Between speakers, conference
attendees divided into groups of 15
to 20 led by drug policy experts,
who facilitated discussion between
group members.
Chiles said he hopes the push
to reform drug laws across the
country will come from grassroots
efforts like the SSDP conference.
Drug reform is necessary, Chil-
es said, because drug education
will allow people to make more
informed decisions.
With the passage of Proposal 1 in
} November, Michigan became one
of 12 states that have legalized mar-
ijuana for medical use. Today will
be the first day that identification
cards will be issued by the state for
patients and caregivers, allowing
them to grow or possess marijuana
for medicinal purposes without
threat of arrest or prosecution.
Conference attendee Renee
Wolfe, who has used marijuana for
medicinal purposes for more than
25 - years, suffers from Multiple
Sclerosis and is looking forward

to the new legal status of the drug
under Michigan law.
"I'll be leading the march up the
steps of the state House in Lansing
tomorrow to hand in my paper-
work," she said.
The card will allow patients or
caregivers to possess up to 12 mari-
juana plants or up to 2.5 ounces of
useable marijuana.
Ethan Nadelmann, executive
director of the Drug Policy Alli-
ance, gave the keynote address at
the conference. Nadelmann said he
was more optimistic than he has
ever been about the future of drug
law reform in the United States.
Nadelmann said he believes the
recent increase in cross-border
violence with Mexican drug car-
tels - who traffic illegal drugs into
Mexico from the United States -
will help to bring about the end of
marijuana prohibition. If marijua-
na is made legal, Nadelmann said,
there would be no black market for
marijuana, which would reduce
violence due to smuggling.
The tax revenue that couldbe gen-
erated by legalizing and selling mari-
juana to both medical patients and
recreational users is another reason
Nadelmann believes the country is
closer to reforming marijuana laws.
The potential regulation of the mari-
juana industry could bring in hun-
dreds of millions of dollars a year in
tax revenue for the country, he said.
Kalamazoo College students
Alex Griffin and Meghan Moriarty,
who attended the conference, said
they were both hopeful about the
future of marijuana law reform in
the state, especially after the legal-
ization of medical marijuana.
"Now, more than ever, it's impor-
tant to discuss drug law reform,"
Moriarty said.
Donald R. Vereen, senior academic
programofficeratthe School ofPublic
Health, spoke about the importance
of making informed policy decisions
when it comes to drug laws.
"Policy of any kind should be
based on research," Vereen said.
"We tend to get into trouble much
faster when we generate policy
without adequate research."

POWWOW
From Page 1A
yearly powwow away from Uni-
versity property this year.
In an interview with the Daily
last month, NASA Co-chair Con-
ner Sandefur said the move took
place because NASA had a desire
to shift the powwow's manage-
ment away from the University's
Office of Multi-Ethnic Student
Affairs and back to the Native
American community.
"We are taking back our central
control of the powwow to honor
ourcommunity," hetold the Daily in
early March."One ofthe greatthings
that have happened this year is we
have been able to connect with the
greater community. Native Ameri-
can students get to meet elders who
feel comfortable comingbecause it's
not within the confinements of the
University setting."
Sandefur, a Rackham student,
said the group had difficulty find-
ing a venue in Ann Arbor after it
made the decision to switch loca-
tions.
"Most places you call, and they
won't call you back when you talk
about a powwow," he said.
After much searching, Sand-
efur said the Community Edu-
cation Department of the Saline
Area School District was one of
the few groups that agreed to
house the powwow.
"They just welcomed us with
open arms, which is a different
experience than we've had at the
University," he said.
Though this was the first time
in 19 years that the powwow was
not at Crisler Arena, American

Culture Lecturer Margaret Noori,
who teaches Ojibwe at the Univer-
sity, said many of the participants
preferred the new location.
"Therewasanice feelingofclose-
ness," she said, "and families who
were venders were able to watch
their kids who were dancers."
In light of the fact that the
powwow was held seven miles
from campus and in a smaller
venue, Sandefur said he was satis-
fied with the estimated turnout of
thousands of people, even though
attendance was lower than in past
years.
Noori, who attended the event
with her family, said there were
more than enough people to com-
pete in the dance competitions,
adding "there's a certain measure
of success that isbeyond numbers."
"I certainly felt that we had the
numbers of people you need to
have a successful powwow," she
said.
In addition to the dancing
competition and traditional fes-
tivities, this year's powwow com-
memorated the death of Irving
"Hap" McCue, the founder of the
first powwow held at the Univer-
sity in 1972.
Besides starting the powwow
in Ann Arbor, McCue also taught
Ojibwe at the University for more
than 30 years.
While McCue passed away
in 2008, Noori said it is Native
American custom to honor the
death of a loved one a year later.
"It's easy to remember them a
week after it happens," she said.
"It's a more significant thing to
remember them a year later."
During Saturday's festivities,
many University faculty and staff

joined McCue's 26 relatives on the
dance floor to perform a memorial
dance in his honor.
In addition to the memorial
dance, participants of all ages,
wearing brightly colored head-
dresses, feathers andbeads, show-
cased their dancing skills in the
various dance competitions held
throughout the day.
At the end of the powwow,
dancers who earned the most
points received cash prizes.
As groups competed in the
center of the gymnasium, Native
American vendors - some driv-
ing more than 10 hours to get to
the event - packed the surround-
ing indoor track to sell their
goods, including beaded jewelry,
dream catchers, moccasins and
drums.
LSA freshman Lisa Letourneau,
a member of NASA, said the event
went smoothlybecause the Native
American community supported
the move.
"It's just kind of bringing it a
little closer to how things used
to be," Letourneau said. "Maybe
taking away the flashy aspect of
powwow and making it more nat-
ural and just more of a celebration
instead of a competition."
Despite the festive atmosphere,
attendees of this year's powwow
noted the continuing tensions
with the University were in the
back of their minds.
Dearborn resident Glen Qualls,
who has attended the annual
event nine times, said this year's
powwow was a very intimate
occasion in the new location.
However, Qualls added he was
upset because the change came in
light of an "underlying animosity

from people at the University of
Michigan."
"It's indicative that there's a
great healing that's needed with
the issue of the respect of the
remains that the University has
chosen to disregard," he said.
Karen Pheasant, a dancer whot
has come to the powwow for
the past three years, drove nine;
hours to attend the occasion and
said that, in years past, holding
the event at Crisler Arena signi-
fied the University's acceptance
of the Native American commu-
nity.
She said this year's change was
"a great loss," signifying the bro-
ken relationship between the Uni-
versity and the Native American
community.
University alum Susan Hill
drove from Ontario to attend the
event. She said she has been com-
ing to the powwow since she was
a freshman 19 years ago.
Hill said she originally par-
ticipated as a dancer, but now she
returns each year as a volunteer.
"It's sort of like the native stu-
dents' homecoming," she said.
"We get to see people we went to
school with who are now all over
the country."
Hill said she supports the move
because NASA made the decision
with the Native American com-
munity's opinion in mind.
While the event went smoothly
in its new location, Noori said she
hopes the controversy over the
University's possession of the rel-
ics will be resolved soon.
"We remain really hopeful that
the University, through continued
awareness, will make a decision to
return the remains," she said.


CLINIC
From Page 1A
just once, Wenzloff said he has
missed being that involved.
"I think my legal education was
much richer when I could actively
engage in hands-on learning," he
said. "It's important to me to use
HASH BASH
From Page 1A
society," Kent said. "People don't
really look down on you in the
same way anymore."
The event included speeches
from Kent, Chris Chiles, the
executive director of the Uni-
versity's chapter of Students for
Sensible Drug Policy, and mem-
RELAY FOR LIFE
From Page 1A
School senior and cancer survivor,
said events like the Relay for Life
have had a "direct impact" on his

my legal skills to serve the public
interest. That's really what I came
to law school to do."
Wenzloff added that it can be
difficult to "give back to the com-
munity" considering all the time
spent in a classroom. He said
clinical classes have a unique
advantage because they are "a
great combination of active learn-

ing and contributing to a greater
cause."
Carr said the clinic's goals are
to raise awareness of human traf-
ficking in today's society as well
as to prevent continuation of the
problem.
As the clinic is set to open in the
fall, Carr said she has great expec-
tations for what it can accomplish.

bers of the Michigan chapter of was a member of an activistgroup
NORML. called the Portage Progressives
After the gathering on the for Peace, said he hasbeen attend-
Diag,supporters marchedtogeth- ing Hash Bash for more than 30
er to the annual Monroe Street years to "celebrate the passing
Fair. The fair featured live music of Michigan's medical marijuana
blaring from a stage in front of laws."
Dominick's and numerous street Prichard said he first attended
vendors selling everything from Hash Bash in 1975.
marijuana paraphernalia to The annual event began in
T-shirts. response to a March 9,1972 Michi-
Mark Prichard, who said he gan Supreme Court decision that

GOT A NEWS TIP?
E-MAIL
NEWS@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

life and the lives of other cancer
survivors.
"[Relay for Life] definitely
spreads awareness," Pineau said.
"A lot of people get involved just to
come and check it out, and it raises
a lot of money."

In addition to events throughout
theday, includingaboxcarrace,bas-
ketball tournament and pie-eating
contest, there were also two major
ceremonies - the Fight Back Cere-
mony and the Luminaria Ceremony.
The Fight Back Ceremony on

the michigan
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
HOUSE OR ROOMS for rent. 2 bath,
furnished, side drive parking, excellent
location, 241-709-9981.
2 BDRM. $1200/MO. negotiable. Lg.
apt. 721 5. Forest, secure elevator
bldg., new fridge, floors, & carpet.
r A/c, dwshr., water, heat, Internet, I
prkg. spot incl. Fully furnished besides
beds. Contact melmorof@umich.edu
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9309
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
slop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
080
HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week- To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.

daily
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-7224791.
BORDERLINE PERSONALITY
DISORDER Healthy, right-handed
women with a diagnosis of Borderline
Personality Disorder needed for a study
of stress and emotions, Study partici-
pants will have 1 fMRI and 2 PET
scans along with psychological evalua-
tions. Compensation up to $650.00
Cull 734-763-3589
IRBMED #2003-0663
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 mi.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
11+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB # :
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu

CANCER RESEARCH SUMMER
INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
(CaRSIP)
As part of its Cancer Biology Training
Program, the University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part
with funding from the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH) is providing expo-
sure to cancer research for highly moti-
vated and talented college undergradu-
ates. This program will give the suc-
cessful applicants an opportunity to ex-
plore potential careers in the field of
cancer. Interns are paid a stipend of
$4,500 for ten weeks during the sum-
mer and are aimed at students who are
completing their sophomore or junior
undergraduate year this spring. In
keeping with the terms of the NIH
grant, we especially encourage applica-
tions from individuals from minority
groups that are currently underrepre-
sented in biomedical and behavioral
research.
The deadline for application is 17 April
2999. Your application must be up-
loaded at the following site:
http://www.cancer.med.umich.edu/pro-
fessionals/summerinternship.shtml
Questions about the program? Please
email La Cheryl Wicker at
lwicker@umich.edu
2009 SUMMER/FALL INTERNSHIP
Beer Distributor located in Ypsilanti,
covering territories in Washtenaw, Liv-
ingston, Western Wayne and Monroe
Counties. Looking for a hard working
Business Student, must be 21 and have
a car. Flexible hours, evenings and
weekends esnecially durinv Football -

For Tuesday, April 7, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Your antennas are so finely tuned
today, some of you can pick up hard rock
through your Mercury fillings. This
makes you very aware of what others are
thinking and feeling, which, in turn,
gives you a better idea of what they
want.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You're highly intuitive today! Trust
your gut reactions about things. Your
hunches are surprisingly accurate today.
GEMINI
(May 21 to Jane 29)
Discussions with others might be ide-
alistic today. In the same vein, you're
probably concerned about helping some-
one or, alternatively, how you can get
help from others.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs are
easy to understand in some ways today.
It's not so much what they say (which, in
fact, mieht be confusitng); it's more
about what you kiow ttey really want.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Your appreciation of beauty is height-
ened today. You're curious about many
things, especially exotic, magical, spiri-
tual ideas. Travel by water appeals to
you.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Feelings of sympathy make you gen-
erous toward others, especially those
who are less fortunate than you.
However, don't be a martyr. Be gener-
ous, but maintain a healthy self-interest
as well.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
It's a good day to smooth over rough
feelings with partners. It's easy to estab-
lish feelings of mutual sympathy

because you can each sense what the
other person wants or needs.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Avoid important decisions at work that
require clear, rational thought. Today
your mind is more like a helium balloon
floating in the sky. It's tough to be
grounded.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Your creative skills are tops today!
Trust your instincts and your imagina-
tion. Playful activities with children will
be fun. Love is very romantic.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jun. 19)
Exend a helping hand to family mem-
bers today; no doubt, someone will
extend a helping hand to you as well.
Secrets might be revealed. (Be discreet.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You wantto escape from drudgery and
chores today. Daydreams, fantasies and
opportunities in "get away from all this"
totally appeal to you today.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Be very careful about finances and
money deals today. Wishful thinking and
an overactive idealism could push you to
do something you might later regret.
(Keep your receipts!)
YOU BORN TODAY You're bold,
daring and have the courage to be exper-
imental. (You take your chances.)
Frequently, something life-changing
occurs in your world between the ages of
28 and 31. You're enthusiastic about
whatever you do. You are both inspired
by others and have the ability to inspire.
This year others will help you reshape
your future goals. Listen to their feed-
back, because you are building or con-
structing something important you.
Birthdate of: Jackie Chan, actor;
James Garner, actor; Francis Ford
Coppola, director.

"I hope the clinic raises aware-
ness within the U of M commu-
nity, the state of Michigan and the
nation about human trafficking
and identifies ways for communi-
ties to prevent it," she said. "I also
hope to provide a unique experi-
ence for Michigan Law students to
engage in human rights lawyering
during law school."
declared unconstitutional the
drug law used to convict activist
John Sinclair for possession of two
marijuana joints.
That decision left the state of
Michigan without laws prohibit-
ing the use of marijuana for almost
a month until a law was passed on
Apr. 1, 1972.
Hash Bash is held every year on
the first Saturday in April to com-
memorate the decision.
Saturday afternoon directed par-
ticipants' attention to dozens of
small flags on a hill, representing
the number of people in Washt-
enaw County who will be diag-
nosed with cancer this year. The
speakers encouraged those present
to do small things like urge others
to quit smoking or exercise regu-
larlyto reduce their risk of cancer.
"We must fight back to honor
the memories of all the people can-
cer has taken away from us," said
Zoltan Mesko, co-emcee for the
event and redshirt senior punter
for the football team.
At the candlelit Luminaria Cer-
emony on Saturday evening, par-
ticipants watched a video of names
and photographs of local residents
who were either diagnosed with
cancer or who passed away this
past year as a result of the illness.
After a choral rendition of
"Amazing Grace," participants
took a silent lap around the track,
which was ringed with luminar-
ias, each representing someone
who has suffered from cancer.
Many student organizations,
including Greek Life and multicul-
tural groups, formed teams to raise
money for the event. Some groups,
like the Lovin' Dans, were made
up of friends who decided to come
together and support the event.
LSA senior Michael Lampl, cap-
tain of the Lovin' Dans, said his
group has been a part of the event
since his freshman year. He said
this year's Relay seemed to have
more participants and events than
in the past.
"Everything about this event
is pretty positive," he said. "It's a
really fun day, especially when the
weather is nice like today."
Pineau encouraged students
not involved in this year's Relay
for Life to consider being a part of
next year's event.
"It's like a party; everybody has
a lot of fun," Pineau said. "Even
if you have no connections with
anybody with cancer at all you're
going to have a great time and
you're going to do something good
doingit."
Business senior Kaylin Connors,
co-chair of the event, said the relay
exceeded her expectations in the
amount of money raised and stu-
dent participation.
"It made me feel like we're
uniting for one common cause,"
she said. "People will still come
together and do something good in
an economy that's not doing really
well at all."

wmnNspuin yung rutm
Hockey Season. Fun, hands-on experi-
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS ence in Sales, Special Events and Mar-
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented, keting. Apply in person at O&W, Inc.
hardworking individuals for our wait 3003 William St. Ypsilanti. 734-480-
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No 4012.
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
093 PART-TIME ITALIAN speaking
babysitter needed for 7 year old child.
email: mamarc@comcast.net
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The * S *
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge pr
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous- 150
ing bonus, and discounted meals avail
able. Call Ryans1E(899)E626H Aa6394A
www.theislandhouse com SOMEONE HELP PAY part of my Ia-


8A - Monday, April 6, 2009
ADVENTURELAND
From Page 5A
those are outnumbered by many
completely wasted comic oppor-
tunities, like a scene involving the
two of them and some pot cook-
ies. And the most memorable kid,
a jerk named Frigo (Matt Bush,
"One Last Thing...") who takes
great pride in his cock-punches,
isn't given nearly enough screen
time to ascend to McLovin-like
status.
Eisenberg, a poor man's
Michael Cera, tries playing James
as endearingly awkward but is
never able to find the right note to
make the audience care about his
predicament. His fellow actors
similarly fail to connect, perhaps
because every line of dialogue
that comes out of anyone's mouth
is dripping with bored sarcasm
and detachment. Obviously they
all deserve better than this job,
but surely college students must
care about something in life -
even during the summer.
WINTER GLOVES
From Page 5A
English. The album's first single,
"About A Girl," presses through
tense beats with confusing yet
heartfelt verses like "You move
and sip every drop to extract
from the glass / wondering
why God, this anger any way?"
between bouncing verses.
The album is full of happy
dance tracks, but Winter Gloves
is more than just a party-maker
band. While on first listen the
tracks seem all too similar, a
second go-through brings out
the subtleties that make each
melody memorable. The band
lays out unique instrumenta-
tion (especially with its specialty
instrument: the glockenspiel)
and brooding lyrics over synthy
dance beats and buzzing key-
boards. It's hipster hip-shaking
music; it's pensive pop.
about a girl ends on a sweet
note with one of its best tracks,

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

"Adventureland" seems to be
a more personal project for Mot-
tola, and making the characters
college grads instead of high
school grads helps to elevate
the film above the usual sum-
mer-lasting-forever teen movie.
There's an added layer of sadness
in their lives that comes from
Adventures in
bland land.
their simple effort to make the
best out of the dead-end predica-
ment they find themselves in.
But when the characters only
show fleeting glimpses of hap-
piness or excitement, the audi-
ence is going to return the favor.
Like the hats on the rotating
dummies in the park's rigged
throw-a-ball-to-knock-off-the-
hats game, the true potential of
"Adventureland" remains firmly
glued upon its own head, and no
one succeeds in knocking it off.
"Piano 4 Hands." It's relatively
subdued, relying heavily on
lightly plunking piano and soft
vocals to carry the melody, and
accompanied by the occasional
drum clap and xylophone flour-
ish. The song tells the story of
reigniting the spark with a love
interest, using lyrics like, "I can't
recall the last time you and I had
a lazy afternoon / Here we are,
Brooding but
never icy.
young lovers / put two hands on
the black keys / I'll play some-
thing that puts us back together
for good."
Whether causing frenzied
chaos on the dance floor or wield-
ing a fine glockenspiel, Winter
Gloves is easy to love. It's a band
that stands up to the high stan-
dards Montreal bands are held to
and, with about a girl, the band
has proven its musical chops.

4

A white-haired woman, a blue blob, a green sea monster and a cockroach walk into a bar. ouch

Close-up encounters

'Monsters vs. Aliens' wedding da
into a giant
combines modern captures he
holding fac
technology with a other gove
sters: Dr. C
star-studde dcast Laurie, TV's
Link (Will
By SHERI JANKELOVITZ Developmer
Daily Arts Writer "Knocked 1
erpillar kn
"Monsters vs. Aliens" has been who only sp
surrounded by hype, expectations Earth so
abounding that by the evi
it will help usher har (Rainn
in the re-emer- ***C Office"), wh
gence of 3-D film ination, ant
as a credible art MOnSteS to save the
form. And while ys. Aljens are lessons
the end result is a way: Belie'
film that certain- At Showcase ship is then
ly looks amazing, and Quality16 the world,a
it suffers a bit DreamWorks their differ,
from lack of cre- Unfortun
ativity. Aliens," the
Susan Murphy (Reese Wither- all been don
spoon, "Legally Blonde") was just ter too). "M
an average woman - that is, until retread of D
she was hit by a meteor on her "Shrek" mo
LOPEZ INTERVIEW
From Page 5A
and it's like, 'look at that unfortunate soul,' "
Lopez said. "But he is in many ways happier
than any of us will ever be because he's found
it. He's found true passion in life and it has
carried him through every challenge that has
been thrown in front of him."
Indeed, Ayers has had to overcome many
challenges, beyond just his living conditions.
Despite being a prodigious musician, Ayers is
deeply troubled. He suffers from schizophre-
nia, which factored in his leaving Julliard.
"Every day when he wakes up, it's another
battle to distinguish what's real and what's
imagined," Lopez said. "He sees and hears
things that I don't ... he's angry; he's scared; he
lashes out and he's very ugly and very offen-
sive. But he fights through it and finds his way
to the music every day."
In the screen adaptation, Jamie Foxx will
assume the role of the gifted yet agitated Ayers
while Robert Downey Jr. will play Lopez.
Toward the end of the interview, Lopez coyly
teased, "I won'tgive it away, but I think the last
scene in the movie is one of the most gorgeous,
uplifting scenes I've seen in a movie in a long
time ... I want you to be surprised by it."
If the movie can capture the surprising and
peculiar aspects of this true story, then it cer-
tainly promises to be a heart-warming, memo-
rable experience.

ay, causing her to grow
. After the government
er, she is placed into a
ility along with several
rnment-captured mon-
:ockroach Ph.D. (Hugh
s "House"), The Missing
Arnett, TV's "Arrested
nt"), B.O.B. (Seth Rogen,
Up") and a gigantic cat-
own as Insectosaurus
eaks bug.
on comes under attack
1 alien genius Gallax-
Wilson of TV's "The
ho's bent on world dom-
d it's up to the monsters
day. Of course, there
to be learned along the
ve in yourself, friend-
most important thing in
appreciate everyone for
ences, etc.
nately for "Monsters vs.
action and lessons have
ne before (and done bet-
onsters" comes off as a
reamWork's successful
vies, exceptwith aliens.

And more monsters.
But the film has plenty of spunk
to make up for what it lacks in orig-
inality. In particular, the moments
where the monsters are just hang-
ing out, playing cards and talking
with each other are hilarious. But
when the action scenes arrive,
they're mostly a letdown - the
audience deserves more time to get
to know the monsters.
The risk of using 3-D in almost
any film is the potential of look-
ing campy or resorting to cliche
gags (like throwing pies in its
audience's faces), but that doesn't
happen here. The look of the film
isn't just a concept - it actually
enhances the movie. Everything
looks crisp, and the 3-D really
helps certain scenes pop. One can't
help but be amazed by the tech-
nology displayed here and think
that 3-D films have certainly come
a long way.
"Monsters vs. Aliens" also bene-
fits from having an amazingly star-
studded cast. Any film that can get
Kiefer Sutherland (TV's "24") to

voice a violence-crazed General
and Stephen Colbert to play a bum-
bling Presidentofthe United States
can't be bad. Although it's doubt-
ful that small children know - or
care - who Seth Rogen is, teenage
and adult audiences will certainly
appreciate hearing his signature
laugh coming from a blue pile of
ooze.
An animated movie is truly
successful when it can entertain
audiences of both young and old,
and "Monsters" certainly can.
Children will be blown away by
the eye-catching 3-D effects, and
older audiences can enjoy the sar-
donic, if not entirely sophisticat-
ed, humor.
DreamWorks may not always be
able to hit the ball out of the park
like its main competitor, Pixar. The
company still has a long way to go
before its films really connect with
audiences the way, say, "Wall-E"
does. But that said, "Monsters vs.
Aliens" is an enjoyable and funny
film with the added bonus of being
amazingto look at.

4

4

4

4

WE SALUTE THE INTERNET

www.michigandaily.com

4

4

MORE ONLINE'For m
night;

4

4


U The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com ( April 6, 2009

AT LAST!
TUMBLERS CLAIM FIRST BIG TEN
CHAMPIONSHIP IN NINE YEARS

Palushaj jumps
to NHL after
two seasons

Sophomore signs
with St. Louis
Blues, reports to
AHL affiliate
By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
Saturday night marked the end
of a one-week offseason for Aaron
Palushaj.
The former sophomore for-
ward for the Michigan hockey
team made his professional debut
in Moline, Ill., for the Peoria Riv-
ermen of the American Hockey
League after foregoing his final
two years of NCAA eligibility.
Palushaj's first game came just
two days after he signed an entry-
level contract with the St. Louis
Blues, who drafted the Northville
native in the second round (44th
overall) of the 2007 National
Hockey League Entry Draft.
Palushaj first thought about
leaving college early last sum-
mer, when roommate and close
friend Max Pacioretty signed with
the Montreal Canadiens after
his freshman year at Michigan.
Palushaj said he put some thought
about turning pro throughout this
season and expressed his interest
with his parents during the year.
After Air Force knocked the
Wolverines out of the opening
round of the NCAA Tournament
on Mar. 27. Palushaj said he start-

ed weighing his options. He con-
tacted St. Louis early last week to
express his interest in joining the
Blues, and said he and the team's
front office were on the same page
in their discussions.
"Theyfeel that if I'm ready, then
they'll welcome me with open
arms," Palushaj said. "It'd be an
opportunity for me, but there are
no guarantees or promises in this
business. It'll be a really hard sum-
mer, and I'll just keep workingvery
hard."
Palushaj met with Michigan
coach Red Berenson and assis-
tants Mel Pearson and Billy Pow-
ers last Thursday to notify them
of his intentions. The Wolverines'
staff, and Berenson in particular, is
traditionally adamant that players
should stay four years to earntheir
degree and to fully develop their
on-ice skills before jumping to the
next level.
Despite the conflicting philoso-
phies, Palushaj said the 90-minute
conversation was neither confron-
tational nor combative.
"It went really well," Palushaj
said. "I just told them how I felt,
where I was. They gave me their
input and their opinions, and I took
it for what it was worth.
"As much as they maybe think
I should stay for another year, I
think all three of them were pret-
ty supportive. They understand
where I'm coming from and there
are definitely no bad vibes leaving
Michigan."
Palushaj believes his maturity
See PALUSHAJ Pa AB

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Sophomore Thomas Kelley beat out teammate Chris Cameron for the conference all-around championship on his way to Big Ten Gymnast of the Year honors.
'M' splits title Kelley wins all-
with Illinois around crown

After judges'
conference, Blue
earns title
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 5 Michigan men's
gymnastics team appeared
shell-shocked, staring silently
out at the competition floor
while the fourth-ranked Fight-
ing Illini started roaring in tri-
umph, holding up the Big Ten
Championship trophy.
But a few minutes after
Illinois started celebrating,
a whisper began to spread
around Crisler Arena.
Michigan's last parallelbars
score was wrong.
Suddenly, the scoreboard
changed, and sophomore Chris
Cameron was awarded a 14.45
instead of a 13.85 - a correction
that moved the Wolverines into
a tie for first place with the Illini
at357.10 points.
The maize-and-blue clad
competitors were already in the
tunnel, waiting to re-enter the

arena for the post-meet ceremo-
nies. Their non-
competing
teammates
See BIG
TENS,
Page 3B

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
No one could blame sophomore
gymnast Thomas Kelley for being a
little surprised.
At Friday night's Big Ten men's
gymnastics championships, his
teammate, sophomore Chris Cam-
eron, was whisked away for a TV
interview as the all-around champi-
on before the six N
teams marched NOTEBOOK
out on the floor
for awards. But when the results
for the all-around were announced,
Cameron was called second.
Kelley won the all-around title by
just a quarter of a point.
"I was not expect-
ing it at

all," Kelley said. "My goal was to
get in the top six, and I had the meet
of my life tonight. I've never been
more on in my life. I stuck floor, six
dismounts - I don't do that."
Kelley posted scores of 15 or
above on four of his six events,
including an astronomical 15.65 on
high bar and a season-high 14.70 on
his last event, parallel bars.
But the sophomore was so
immersed in the team competition
that his individual performance
took a back seat.
"The meet was over, I thought
we'd lost, so I don't even remem-
ber anything that happened in my
p-bars routine," Kelley said.
- The Libertyville, Ill.,
native's success carried
into Saturday night's event
finals. Kelley finished third
on the parallel bars with a
new season-best 14.75 score and
second on the high bar (14.975). To
cap his weekend, Kelley, who was
named Big Ten Freshman of the
Year in 2008, was named Big Ten
Gymnast of the Year.
He is the first Wolverine to win
the award since Justin Laury in
2005 - the last year Michigan
hosted the Big Ten Champion-
ships.
See KELLEY, Page 3B

SAID ALSA LAH/Daily
Sophomore Aaron Palushaj is now a member of the AHL's Peoria Rivermen.
SOFTBALL
Blue sweeps Purdue
for third straight year

ARIEL BOND/Dal y F

Wolverines allow 12 unanswered runs

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan dugout looked
stunned. Wolverine coach Rich
Maloney stared at the scoreboard in
disbelief. The young fans stood pas-
sively, wondering whether to ask for
autographs.
The Wolverines had just allowed
the Nittany Lions to score 12 unan-
swered runs en route to a16-5 loss at
RayFisher
Stadium, PENN STATE 16
which MICHIGAN 5
sealed a
2-1 series loss on the weekend.
The loss yesterday wasn't on the
tail of a major catastrophe or break-
down, and the team hadn't fallen
apart.
On Saturday, the Wolverines and
Nittany Lions (3-3 Big Ten, 17-12
overall) had split their doublehead-
er, with Penn State taking the first
F game 6-4 in the 10th inning. But the

Wolverines fought back from a 5-2
deficit in the second game to win
9-4 with the help of five home runs.
But on Sunday, the Wolverines
just failed to do the little things.
"It all added up over time, one
mistake after another," sophomore
Ryan LaMarre said. "A few plays, a
few inches, a few bounces, then it's
a whole different game. But today, it
just all added up."
Unlike other games where the
Wolverines (3-3, 18-10) have found
a way to fight back, the hole they
dug themselves into was too deep to
escape. As the game went own, the
little miscues became more glaring.
Maloney worked hiswaythrough
the bullpen, using six different
pitchers, but all failed to slow the
Nittany Lions' offensive surge.
And when the Wolverines looked
for a game-changing performance,
no one answered the call.
"It takes one or two guys to step
See NITTANY LIONS, Page 4B

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan softball team
practices like it's on ESPN
- and on Saturday, it paid
off.
The Wolverines have a drill
named after the sports channel.
With-
out a PURDUE 1
ball, the MICHIGAN 3
players
imagine PURDUE 3
diving, MICHIGAN 4
making
spec-
tacular catches and completing
highlight reel, SportsCenter-
worthy plays.
On Saturday, senior co-cap-
tain Teddi Ewing made her
ESPN-caliber play.
And later, she was thrown
out at first base when she was
on the wrong end of a highlight
play nearly as impressive.
With a 3-2 lead in the fifth
inning of Saturday's second
game, Ewing displayed amazing
athletic ability.
Boilermaker second base-
man Kelly Miller led off with
a strong hit to mid-leftfield
for what looked like a base
hit.
Ewing, a shortstop, threw
herself in the air and managed
to turn 180 degrees before land-
ing feet toward home base, her
stomach in the dirt, ball in her

glove.
The play helped close out the
4-3 win to complete the week-
end sweep.
"I always say with diving,
you never know unless you try,"
Ewing said. "So if I think there's
any chance of getting it, I just go
for it. And it's always nice when
it lands in the glove."
In the sixth inning, Ewinggot
a taste of her own medicine.
She made solid contact at
the plate for what 'looked like
a potential double, but Purdue
outfielder Beth Cinadr made a
diving catch in leftfield for the
out.
Cinadr's dive was character-
istic of the scrappy Boilermak-
ers.
After No.10 Michigan won 3-1
in the opening game, spurred by
a 2-0 first-inning lead, Purdue
found its confidence and rhythm
in the second contest.
"The bottom line is, you can't
get your confidence or your lack
of confidence from the other
team," Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins said.
"And they stayed confident
for two reasons: One, because
they were in the game. When
you are in the game, you have
a chance to win it. And two, if
you look at it on paper - who's
supposed to win - they have no
pressure."
The second game went to
See PURDUE, Page 4B

Sophomore Ryan LaMarre went 7-for-12 and hit three homers against Penn State.

BLUE MISSES OUT CENTURY MARK
U The Michigan women's gymnastics team's Senior Chisako Sugiyama tied the all-time
streak of 16 straight NCAA Championship Michigan singles record for wins with 100. She
appearances was snapped. Page 2B. could break the record Thursday. Page 3B.


2B - April 6, 2009 The.ichian aily-m.higndaiyco

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wolverines should aim for
Spartan -like fan base

4

Sophomore Kylee Botterman was one of just three Wolverines to qualify for NCAAs.
Blue's Nationals
streak ends at 16

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
It was a rite of passage to get to
Nationals. It was a hurdle the No.
16 Michigan women's gymnastics
team cleared for the last 16 years.
But this season was different.
The Wolverines tripped up in
their race towards Nationals with
a less-than-perfect performance
at the NCAA South Regional
Championships on Saturday. They
finished third behind first-place
Stanford (196.200) and second-
place Arkansas (196.300). The top
two finishers advance to the NCAA
Championships.
This year's team - with a roster
down to 12 after four seniors grad-
uated last season and no freshmen
came in - was more deserving of
a trip to Nationals than previous
years' teams, according to Michi-
gan coach Bev Plocki.
Six of this year's returning
gymnasts had surgery to correct
injuries before the regular season.
Plocki said some of her athletes
couldn't train until November,
meaning that they lost two and a
half months of practice this sea-
son.
The Wolverines couldn't put
their best lineup together until the
Big Ten Championships on Mar.
21.
"During the season, we were
able to get people back and put
together our best possible lineup
for Big Tens, and we hit and it was
great," Plocki said. "And I know we
brought that confidence from Big
Tens with us, but I don't know if
because everything that this team
has been through if they wanted it
too much, if they tried too hard."
The squad tackled a handful of
obstacles to finish the season with
a 10-0 Big Ten record, despite its
earlier-than-anticipated end to
the season.
But in the end, Michigan missed
second place and a trip to Nebras-
ka by five-tenths of a point.
Going into the final event,
Michigan and host Arkansas were
neck and' neck for second place,
and both teams knew it all came
down to the last event. Michigan

was on the balance beam, the most
difficult event in women's gymnas-
tics, ahead by one tenth of a point.
Arkansas finished up on floor.
Teams generally prefer to
begin meets on vault, because it's
a fast event which is easier to do
under the influence of early-meet
adrenaline. A rotation beginning
with vault automatically ends on
floor.
It is toughest to begin or end on
beam, because there is too much
adrenaline at the beginning of the
meet and it often comes down to
the performance in the last event.
"You can equate (the five-tenths
of a point) to the fall on balance
beam," Plocki said. "But I can eas-
ily find other places were we could
have got those points. It is very
easy to say it was our last mistake
that cost us that trip to Nation-
als, but we could have got that five
tenths back if one person stuck on
vault."
When two Wolverines fell off
the beam in their last rotation,
they knew it was over and that
their dream of competing in their
17th consecutive NCAA Nationals
had disappeared. Sophomore Kylee
Botterman, who will move onto
Nationals as an individual after a
phenomenal floor performance at
Regionals, fell for the first time all
year on beam.
"I can't tell you what happened,"
Botterman said. "I haven't fell on
beam all year and I'm disappoint-
ed, but it's a team sport. This is not
how we thought we were going to
end, but we're looking to next year
and how we can do everything
better."
In addition to Botterman, senior
Becky Bernard (uneven bars) and
junior Sarah Curtis (all-around)
will travel to Nebraska to partici-
pate in individual competition.
"The fact that we got this far, it
breaks my heart that we had to end
this way," Plocki said. "I feel like
this is one of the most deserving
teams that I have ever coached in
terms of their commitment level.
It is heartbreaking, devastating to
get this far and to have our season
end prior to the national champi-
onships."

DETROIT -
I've never seen so much green
and white in my entire life.
Drivingthrough downtown
Detroit on Friday before the Final
Four teams held open practice, I
saw what looked like a Spartan pil-
grimage to Ford Field.
I also realized that most Michi-
gan fans would consider so many
Spartan fans massing together in
a major metropolitan area a sign of
the impending apocalypse
On the way from the parking lot
to Ford Field, I heard "Go Green,
Go White," the
entire way.
From the
moment I
stepped inside
the stadium :.
moment I left,
it felt like the
Michigan State NATE
fight song was SANDALS
on repeat. (I
used to only
know the opening line, "On the
banks of the Red Cedar." I know
much more than that now.)
But as difficult as it was for the
Michigan student in me to take in
that whole scene, stepping back, I
had to admit it was pretty cool.
It was pretty cool that 20,000-
plus Spartan fans skipped work
and school on a Friday just to watch
their favorite teamrun a 50-minute
walk-through.
It was pretty cool that local fans
had a rooting interest in the Final
Four, though it couldn't have been
planned when Detroit was awarded
the event six years ago.
It was pretty cool that the Spar-
tan fans had the chance to jump on
the bandwagon.
Bandwagon fans are usually a
negative part of any team's title
run. They tend to be less knowl-
edgeable and more obnoxious than
the diehards.
But Friday's practice was the
perfect time to let those bandwag-
on fans yell and shout and try to
cover for the fact that they knew
very little about Michigan State
basketball. But those fans have that
right, because the team they're
loosely affiliated with is having a
great season.
The Michigan men's basketball

4

4

4

Twenty-thousand Michigan State fans converged at Ford Field Friday to cheer on the Spartans, even though it wasjust a practice.
team should hope to have so many fans may have been sucked in just gram. 4
bandwagon fans sometime soon. enough to stick around, to learn Michigan State's foundation is
The more bandwagon fans you more about the program and solid. If it wasn't, there wouldn't
have, the better you must be doing become season-long fans. have been so much green and white
that year. John Beilein has a long way to in Detroit this weekend, proximity
The Wolverines saw their band- go in building this program before of East Lansing to Detroit aside.
wagon fill up a little bit when they he catches Tom Izzo's behemoth. Beilein is still building his foun-
made the NCAA Tournament. And (Even longer after the Spartans' dation in Ann Arbor. But he has
it got even more crowded after run these past few weeks.) But it proven at all of his stops he knows
Michigan knocked off Clemson in starts and ends with winning. what he's doing.
the firstround.Followingthelossto Izzo and Co. have been winning So don't stop dreaming of the
Oklahoma, most of those fans prob- for what seems like forever, and each day 20,000 fans in maize and blue
ably jumped right off, not planning successful year builds on the last. attend a Final Four open practice. It
to think about Michigan basketball No team is going to win the might not be that far away.
again until the next big win or the National Championship every year,
next trip to the Big Dance. but even one down year can put - Sandals can be reached
But a few of those bandwagon a dent in the foundation of a pro- at nsandals@umich.edu.

M' remains undefeated with sweep

4

By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
For most of Saturday night's-
first quarter against No. 8 Colo-
rado State, it appeared as if the
Michigan men's lacrosse team's
perfect season might be in dan-
ger.
With 5:50 remaining in the
frame, the Wolverines' high-pow-
ered offense still hadn't found the
cage against the Rams' zone and
the game was tied 0-0.
It was just the calm before the
storm.
Ten minutes later, No. 1 Michi-
gan had taken complete control of
the game, pouring in nine unan-
swered goals.
"Any time you face a zone,
which you don't see that often,
it takes you a little time to kind
of feel it out and see where the

seams are," Michigan coach John
Paul said.
And luckily for the Wolverines
(11-0), they had plenty of time to
resolve the confusion. They domi-
nated the possession battle, win-
ning 51of 80 groundballs en route
to a 16- victory.
The defense held the Rams
(8-4) to just 10 shots on goal and
excelled tremendously in the
transition game. Colorado State
had scored at least five goals in
eachgame before Saturday night's
thrashing at Oosterbaan Field-
house.
"The one thing that I didn't
feel like we've done all year was
put together a complete defensive
game, and tonight we really did
that in all facets," Paul said. "Our
defense played the lockdown style
that we want, (sophomore goalie
Andrew) Fowler played great

in goal and we did a great job of
clearing and handling the ball."
At the beginning of the sea-
son, Wolverine defenders often
extended pressuretoo far fromthe
cage and were beaten by speedy
attackmen. Under the leadership
of senior captain Zach Elyachar,
the talented unit has adopted a
more disciplined approach and is
seeing the results.
"It's great that we played with
this much confidence against a
great team like Colorado State,"
Elyachar said through the Ath-
letic Department. "I think we've
had confidence all season, but this
was the game when we put it all
together; the offense had very lit-
tle turnovers, we executed great
and our defense really buckled
down."
Junior attackman Kevin Zoro-
vich led the Wolverine offense
with five points on two goals
and three assists. Sophomore
attackman Trevor Yealy notched
a game-high four goals and out-
scored the opposition by himself
for the second straight game.
On Friday night, Yealy broke

the Michigan single-game scoring
record, netting 11 goals in an 18-10
win over Minnesota Duluth.
"I just kept moving around, try-
ing to find open holes and seams,
and my teammates kept finding
me," Yealy said.
And at six-foot-three, he's dif-
ficult to miss. His tall frame and
soft hands make him a prototypi-
cal crease-man, since he provides
his teammates with a big target
and releases the ball very quickly.
He moves very well without the
ball, is highly capable of dodging
from the outside and has quickly
emerged as one of the best finish-
ers in the league.
Yealy leads the Men's Colle-
giate Lacrosse Association with
4.9 goals per game, despite strug-
gling for much of the six-week
practice season last fall.
Paul still expected a great sea-
son out of the lanky sophomore,
but was shocked by the perfor-
mance againstthe seventh-ranked
Bulldogs nonetheless.
"We never foresee someone 4
scoring 11 goals in one game," Paul
said. "That's pretty unheard of."

You'll find it
in Aldine! deI

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

April 6, 2009 - 3B

Sugiyama wins No.100,
ties Blue's singles record

Team earns weekend
sweep with two
dominating matches
By GILAD BERKOWITZ
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 23 Michigan women's
tennis team had plenty of motiva-
tion to beat Penn State and Ohio
State this weekend.
With a win Saturday in Colum-
bus, the Wolverines would regain
second place in the close Big Ten
standings. Furthermore, a win at
Penn State would create a cushion
between Michigan and the trailing
Buckeyes.
But second place wasn't the main
thing on the Wolverines' mind.
"We don't even know what the
standings are," Michigan coach
Ronni Bernstein said. "They had
a really good crowd (at OSU), and
that is what we rose up to, not the
standings."
With all the motivation a team
could need, the Wolverines pulled
through, sweeping the field with
a 5-2 triumph over the Buckeyes
on Friday, and a 7-0 romp against
the Nittany Lions yesterday in
State College. With the command-
ing wins, Michigan has extended
its winning streak over the Buck-
eyes to six matches, and the streak
against Penn State to seven years.
Sophomore Whitney Taney
made a ferocious return to the sin-
gles lineup on Friday, breezing past
her competition at No. 5 singles 6-1,
6-1.
"She played awesome," Bern-
stein said. "She was the first one off
the singles court."
Taney had been absent from the
BIG TENS
From page 1B
across the floor began signaling to
them, pointing their index fingers in
the air.
"There was a turn of feelings for
mebecause Iwasveryupset,"senior
Joe Catrambone said. "To work this
hard and get that close, if we were
to lose by that little, it just rips your
heart out. I think most of us would
take a tie any day."
It was the first time the Big Ten
Championships ended in a tie since
Illinois and Ohio State shared the
title in 1983.
The title is Michigan coach Kurt
Golder's third with the Wolverines
andthe 15th forthe program. Forthe
first time since the 2000 season, the
men's and women's teams both won
Big Ten titles in the same year. The
Wolverines placed 10 of 12 gymnasts
in the event finals, more than any
other team.
And on top of all that, the sopho-
more duoofThomasKelley and Cam-
eron finished first and second in the
all-around competition. Kelley hit all
six of his routines for an 89.35 total.
Cameron posted Michigan's highest
KELLEY
From page 1B
FLYIN' RYAN SOARS: Senior
Ryan McCarthy spent the weeks
between Michigan's final regular-
season meet and the Big Ten Cham-
pionships unsure whether he'd even

make the lineup.
His presence, especially on the
parallel bars in team finals, turned
out to be crucial.
Michigan needed a boost after
two missed sets to open the rota-
tion Friday night. After McCarthy's
clutch routine, the Wolverines
roared back to life, setting the meet
up for its dramatic conclusion.
And though Kelley and Cameron
finished first and second in the all-
around, Michigan coach Kurt Gold-
er chose McCarthy as his unofficial
Newt Loken award winner for best
performance of the night.
"It was questionable whether
we were going to use him or not,
and there was a lot of pressure the
last week," Golder said. "He came
through like atrooper the last week
and he came through real well."
McCarthy made the event finals
in both parallel bars and high bar,
and on Saturday, he felt no pres-
sure. He swept easily through his
high bar routine, finishing in a
third-place tie with Illinois sopho-
more Paul Ruggeri.
The gymnast who was ear-
lier on the bubble for making the
lineup found himself standing on
the podium by the end of the night
with two of his teammates - event
champion senior Joe Catrambone
and Kelley. On an event that was
supposed to be a weakness this
season, the Wolverines took the
top three awards.
"That was agreat feeling,"McCa-

WILL MULLLR/Daily
Senior Chisako Sugiyama could become Michigan's winningest singles player Thursday.

singles lineup since the Mar. 22
match against Iowa due to a "nag-
ging" injury, according to Bern-
stein. With a 12-2 career record
in Big Ten competition, Taney's
return was well-timed.
"As far as (Taney's) ground-
strokes, she's fine," Bernstein said.
Senior captain Lindsey Howard's
father attended Ohio State, and for
her, it gives her "extra incentive" to
compete against Michigan's biggest
rival so she can talk trash to her dad,
Howard wrote on the Captain's Log
on mgoblue.com.
Yesterday, senior Chisako Sugi-
yama recorded a routine 6-2, 6-1
victory that was anything but
ordinary. Sugiyama provided the
scores of the night on floor exercise
and pommel horse, and on Saturday
placed second in floor finals.
As the drama-filled night wound
down, Michigan and Illinois
mounted the podium together,
the Illini wearing bright orange
and carrying the trophy and the
Wolverines decked out in brand-
new Big Ten Champion caps and
T-shirts. Catrambone and fellow
senior Scott Bregman couldn't hold
back their emotions, tears running
down their faces as they posed for
pictures with their teammates.
For the first time in their four
years, the tears were of joy, not sad-
ness and disappointment.After three
seasons of finishing fourth at the Big
Tens when they had a chance to win,
the Wolverines delivered when it
counted.
Four of the six events on Friday
night went according to plan. Michi-
gan started strong on high bar and
floor, and in the third rotation, the
pommel horse squad boosted Michi-
gan from third place into the lead.
Redshirt sophomore and pommel
horse specialist Adam Hamers, who
later finished fifth in event finals, got
the team back on track after a miss to
open the rotation. Three of his team-
rthy said. "Having two other guys
from your team up there to sweep
the high bar, one-two-three, itshows
you're powerful as a team. You've got
to bring the love to Michigan."
SENIORS SAVOR HONORS:
For seniors Phil Goldberg and Joe
Catrambone, their stuck landings
on Saturday night meant just a little
more.
Neither gymnast had won a Big
Ten individual title before, and
Catrambone had never before par-
ticipated in an event final. On Sat-
urday, Goldberg won the rings title
(15.325) and Catrambone became
the high bar champion (15.075)
To Goldberg, who came to Michi-
gan as an unrecruited walk-on, win-
ning rings meant even more than

highlight of the road trip by tying
the all-time singles record, snatch-
ing her 100th victory donning the
maize and blue.
Sugiyama will certainly not need
to look far for extra motivation this
coming weekend. At the Varsity
Tennis CenteronThursday, Sugiya-
ma will attempt to break the singles
victory record in a non-conference
test with Texas A&M. On Saturday,
the Wolverines willhonor their two
seniors, Sugiyama and Howard,
before a match against Purdue.
"They have been through a
lot here," Bernstein said refer-
ring to her two seniors. "They are
good representatives of Michigan
tennis."
mates - junior co-captain David
Chan, Cameron and fifth-year senior
Paul Woodward - followed with
scores in the 15-point range.
As Michigan moved to the still
rings, it also moved directly in front
of the team's huge fan section, full
of family, gymnastics alumni and
friends. Senior Ralph Rosso stuck
his dismount and immediately began
gesturing to the cheering section to
reach new noisy heights. Senior co-
captain Phil Goldberg screamed as
he landed his double layout, thump-
ing the block M on his chest.
After a tough vault rotation,
Michigan hung onto the lead by 2.35
points. The Wolverines' momentum
seemed to dissipate on parallel bars
as the Illini hit set after set on rings.
But after the correction on Camer-
on's routine, the Wolverines' perfor-
mance on the last event proved to be
just enough.
Michigan finished the night exact-
ly where it wanted to - atop the Big
Ten podium.
"All of it feels great," Golder said.
"To get back after nine years and go
one-two in the all-around is a coach's
dream. That's what I've worked so
hard for the past nine years, to get
back to that level again."
last year's All-America honor.
"I knew I was going to win,"
Goldberg said. "(Standing on the
podium) was just exciting. Being
taller than everybody is something I
don't get to experience that much."
Catrambone's championship was
the last of the night. After he stuck
his triple backfiip dismount, the
Wolverines enveloped him in hugs.
The senior was one of the last
people to leave Crisler Arena after
the final night of competition,
soaking in one of the most memo-
rable weekends of his career.
"The smile that went ear-to-ear
was priceless," Kelley said. "I'm so
proud of him.
"He's waited four years for this
moment, and it's finally come."

Senior Andrew Mazlin and sophomore Chris Madden helped Michigan to a win over No. 51 Penn State on Saturday /
M' wis ag ainst Penn
State, loses to Buckeyes

M
Ohi

The
tennis
decide
Wolve:
agains
at the'
But
of the
he wa<
Chami
"I
that fi
sophor
referri
needed
that h
the p
'The m
win m
Mad
his tou
agains
Bucha
high-s
Afte

adden salvages always-vocal Madden decided to
switch jersey colors from white to
in against top blue without explaining why.
Whatever the reason, the jersey
o State freshman switch helped the Lotus, Calif.,
native bounce back, winning the
in te am loss second set to force a third frame.
Madden outlasted Buchanan in a
By MARK BURNS 17-15 third-set 10-point tie break-
Daily Sports Writer er to win the match, 4-6, 6-3, 1-0
(15).
No. 47 Michigan men's "(Buchanan) had a very good
team's match had been forehand, and he was solid from
d. There was no way the the baseline," Madden said. "So I
rines could come back had to continue to step up and be
t No. 5 Ohio State yesterday very consistent.
Varsity Tennis Center. "Once I got an attacking ball,
the Wolverines' last player I had to try to attack and get him
afternoon was playing as if moving towards his backhand
s competing for a Big Ten side."
pionship. Madden's win was the only one
definitely recognize when for the squad.
our hits the scoreboard," The Wolverines dropped the
more Chris Madden said, other five singles matches in their
ng to the match victories 6-1 loss to Ohio State (6-0 Big Ten,
d for a team win. "But once 23-1 overall).
appens, I've never gone to But Michigan coach Bruce Ber-
oint where I'm thinking, que wasn't too upset that the Wol-
iatch is over.' I still want to verines lost to the best team in the
y match." Big Ten thus far this season.
Iden was in the midst of "I think we're physically capa-
ighest contest of the season ble of winning matches against
t Buckeye freshman Chase Ohio State, but we're not as sea-
nan, one of the nation's top soned, we're not as polished and
chool recruits last year. we're not as consistent as they
r dropping the first set, the are," Berque said.

"It's not that they hit better
shots than us, it's just they do it
over and over and over again and
we don't yet."
While Michigan wasn't the
best team on the court yesterday,
Saturday proved to be a different
story against No. 51 Penn State
(2-3, 9-9).
Led by Madden and senior
Andrew Mazlin's win (9-8) at the
No. 2 doubles position, Michigan
grabbed five of the six singles
matches and the doubles point to
end up on the winning side of a
6-1 score.
"We knew we had to win that
match," Mazlin said. "Our coach-
es talked about just having every-
one bring their most competitive
effort in singles and doubles, all
nine matches, and they felt we did
that."
While Michigan (2-4, 8-13)
obviously wanted to win both
matches this weekend, Berque's
team was satisfied with the week-
end result: grabbing a split before
heading on the road for its next
two matches against Michigan
State and Purdue.
"In regards to where our level
is - I feel like we're starting to
become the team I thought we
were going tobe at the beginning
of the season," Berque said.

Do you love Twitter?
So do we.
Follow @michigandaily.

I


BRIGH T MINDS. BRIGOHT CITY.
SUMMER SESSIONS 2009
It's never too early to start thinking about summer. Enjoy all that Chicago
has to offer while taking a class to lighten your load for the fall. Register today.
For a full list of courses, visit LUC.edu/summer.
LOYOLA
UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
Preparing people to lead extraordinary lives

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
SUNGLASSES
and...more classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded
its 2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.sa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses.
S; A


4B -April 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com A

F " iftSOFTBALL
Five homers Michigan Findlay slams
Sophomore sends
two over wall in bt
doubleheader split b-ck t

I

4

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
The "Wallverine" was the center
of attention at Fisher Stadium on
Saturday afternoon.
Michigan must have had a long-
ball magnet hidden behind the left-
field wall during its 9-5 win over
Penn State in the second game of
Saturday's doubleheader. The Wol-
verines hit five home runs in the
game, most of which cleared the
wall at its peak. NOTEBOOK
The red-brick
wall, nicknamed
the "Wallverine" by a member of
the Athletic Department, stands 26
feet high and 100 feet wide. Built
duringthe stadium's recent renova-
tion, the wall is meant to be some-
thing opponents remember when
they play in Ann Arbor.
"When we built the stadium, we
had it put in," Maloney said. "I just
wanted the park to be unique. It
gives it character. And I think from
our standpoint, it gives us some-
what of an advantage in the sense
that our guys know how to play
the wall.... Aesthetically, I think it
looks good, it gives a good feel to
the ballpark, and I've always liked
the Fenway monster, so it's kinda
cool."
After the Wolverines lost 6-4 in
the first game, sophomore center-
fielder Ryan LaMarre jumpstarted
the Michigan offense. LaMarre
who had two of the five home runs
in the second game Saturday and
another on Sunday. But others got
in on the act.
"The dugout usually goes wild
for home runs," LaMarre said.
"It's contagious when you see guys
like (fifth-year senior tri-captain)
Timmy (Kalczynski) doing it. ...
The dugout goes insane."
TWICE AS NICE: The Wolverines
played in just their third double-
header of the season Saturday. And
just like in their earlier double dips,
their offense erupted.
Michigan played two games in
one day at Jacksonville on Feb. 28
NITTANY LIONS
From page 1B
up and make a play," Kalczynski
said. "Those small successes are
contagious just like the small fail-
ures have been contagious."
LaMarre provided one of the

Junior Mike Dufek had three hits, two runs and four RBI on the three-game weekend against Penn State.

and then played another double-
header on Mar. 8 vs. Siena. The
Wolverines were 3-1 in those games
and averaged more than 13 runs per
contest while allowing an average
of just over five runs.
Even though the Wolverines
split this weekend's doubleheader,
the offense again brought out the
big bats.
In each game, Michigan won
using different offensive strategies.
In the first game, it strung togeth-
er timely hits with men on base to
score four runs in the 6-4 extra-
inning loss. But in the second game,
the Wolverines' five home runs car-
ried them to a 9-5 win.
"I think we've played in a lot of
situations this year when the wind
has been blowing out, (and) that's
when we can rely on the long ball,"
lone bright spots for the Wolver-
ines. While his teammates allowed
errors to snowball, he managed to
pull himself out of a slump.
After suffering an eight-game
stretch where he batted 4-for-28
with seven strikeouts and just two
RBI at the end of March, the center
fielder made a strong turnaround

LaMarre said. "But lately we've
been playing in games where the
wind is blowing in at 40-50 miles
per hour and it's goodto have ateam
that can win in multiple ways."
Michigan has no more double-
headers scheduled this season.
DUFEK IN DEMAND: Junior
Mike Dufek has had an interesting
season so far, to say the least. As a
starting position player who also
serves as the team's closer, the Wol-
verines have welcomed his versatil-
ity and ability to throw hard.
"To play 16, 17 innings in the
field and then come out and go on
the mound, that's pretty special,"
senior pitcher Chris Fetter said.
"I know it's very tiring, but he still
came out and was throwing 90, 92
(miles per hour) and he was doing
the job. That's big for us. We need
this weekend, batting 7-for-12 with
nine RBI and three home runs.
"It's nice to see him get going,
because you need your star to play
like a star," Maloney said. "And he
certainly did this weekend."
As the Wolverines drop to .500
in the Big Ten, they look forward
to two non-conference games this

someone like that to ste
close."
In the second game of
doubleheader, Dufek hit
homer, then pitched 1..
to get his third save of tl
His earned run average is
third-best on the team.]
out two batters on Saturd
his season total to 14.
This season, Dufek has
in three games in which h
eventually entered as a pi
"When I go out to pitc
clear my mind of anythin
happened (at the plate) ar
separate thetwo," Dufek s
day. "Because if you take
did at the plate out to the
you struggled at the plat
going to be good because
flustered on the mound."
week before gearing up t
nois in a three-game s
weekend at The Fish.
"This could be a turni
Kalczynski said. "It could
two ways. It could go up
fast or downhill really fas
a matter of how mentally
are and how we respond."

Juni
Findla3
her M
probab
she gra
But
one qc
bomb ii
verines
Purdue
The
ermakE
narrow
Michig
half of
teamm
back!"
did jus
due pit
offerin
low lin
center
Alur
foot-ta
the she
ball sta
barely
rightfie
awa - befo
FILE PHOTO gray Rt
Mic]
who'ss
p up and giate sc
a home
Saturday's "Ia
a two-run Hutchi
2 innings point s
he season. The.
now 2.84, had er
He struck bat co
ay to raise broke
when t
s homered A few:
e has then walked
tcher. down
:h, I try to reachie
g else that bright3
nd try and Find
aid Satur- the ba
what you she ret
mound, if she cou
te, it's not the can
you're be The
would
and sw
nine-in
o play Illi- RAIl
eries this cast of
Hutchi
ng point," Maher
1 go one of Sunday
hill really bleheac
St. It's just was fie
tough we urday's
not onl

By IAN KAY out, but also to protect the players'
Daily Sports Writer safety.
"We've put our kids in some
or rightfielder Angela really poor conditions over the
y has hit 11 home runs in years, and why do it if you don't
ichigan career, and she'll have to?" Hutchins said.
'ly hit many more before Saturday afternoon was sunny
duates. and clear, but weather was still
she may never hit another an issue. Even with the aid of
uite like her third-inning sunglasses and visors, outfielders
n the first game of the Wol- on both teams struggled against
s' doubleheader against bright sunlight all day. And swirl-
e on Saturday. ing winds kept the large American
Boil- NOTEBOOK flag beyond the centerfield fence
ers had taut and pointed straight towards
wed right field.
an's lead to one in the top Leading off the top of the third
'the inning, and with her inning in game two, Purdue's
ates screaming, "Get one Liane Horiuchi belted a Jordan
from the dugout, Findlay Taylor pitch to deep right field.
t that. She turned on Pur- Findlay seemed to have a read on
cher Suzie Rzegocki's first it until the last second, but she
.g of the inning, sending a slowed to avoid a collision with
ee drive screaming toward the right-field fence. The ball
field. bounced up against the fence and
mni Field's six-and-a-half- back towards the infield.
ll outfield fences may be By the time Findlay relayed it
ortest of any Big Ten soft- back to the infield, Horiuchi was
adium, and Findlay's drive standing on third base with a tri-
cleared the padding on the ple. She would eventually score
eld side of the 222-foot sign as the Boilermakers (3-3 Big Ten,
ere dropping into a large, 18-12 overall) tied the game at
ubbermaid garbage can. two.
higancoachCarolHutchins, "I thought the sun was a fac-
pent over 30 years in colle- tor a couple times," Hutchins
oftball, said she's never seen said. "I think the one on Angela
run land in a garbage can. kept blowing, but Angela needed
asked for three points," to sprint to the fence and I didn't
ns said. "That was a three- totally see it."
hot." Early-spring softball in the Big
Alumni Field crowd, which Ten may be at nature's mercy, but
upted as soon as Findlay's the elements cut both ways.
'nnected with the pitch, An inninglater, Michigansoph-
out in raucous applause omore first baseman Dorian Shaw
hey saw it land in the can. hit a ball high in the air to left
minutes later, a young fan field. Once the winds took hold,
lover to the can and peered the routine pop up play became an
apprehensively before adventure for Purdue left fielder
ng in and retrieving the Molly Garst. She tracked the ball
yellow prize. towards centerfield but couldn't
lay, who was unaware of make a play as it fell beyond her
ll's final destination until outstretched glove.
urned to the dugout, said Shaw, running hard out of the
aldn't put another homer in batter's box, motored into second
even if she had 100 tries. with a double. One batter later, she
10th-ranked Wolverines would score on an error for Michi-
go on to win the game 3-1 gan's third run of the game.
weep the series with a 4-3 "Regardless, we both had to
ening win in game two. play in the same conditions,"
N, WIND AND SUN: A fore- Hutchins said.
rain on Sunday prompted NOTES: Michigan is 32-2
ns and Purdue coach Kim against Purdue all-time. ... In
to change their Saturday/ eight plate appearances during
series into a Saturday dou- the series, junior catcher Roya St.
der. The decision, which Clair reached base seven times.
nalized shortly before Sat- ... Nikki Nemitz recorded 32 outs
2:00 p.m. start, was made during the series, with 19 coming
ly to protect against a rain- via strikeout.

4

4

4

In return, Williams leads way for Wolverines

4

By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
After missing the first part of the
indoor season with an injury and
struggling to compete in the last
few meets of the year, junior Lex
Williams was looking to redeem
himself when he arrived at the
Hutsell-Rosen Track in Auburn,
Ala., on Saturday.
And the Ann Arbor native raced
as if he hadbeen competing healthy
the entire year.
Williams's performances were
the highlight of the Michigan men's
track and field team performance
at the non-scoring Auburn Invita-
tional this weekend.
In the 1,500-meter run, Wil-
liams and redshirtsophomore Peter
Christmas helped pace each other
to second- and third-place perfor-
mances. Williams's mark was good
enough for an NCAA regional qual-
ifying time (3:46.90).
"Lex has been one of the top
athletes for the last few years
and he definitely went through a

rough patch," Michigan coach Fred
LaPlante said. "It was his first out-
door meet so, it was a nice way for
him to start."
Williams wasn't done for the
evening.
With his teammates setting a
fast pace early, Williams crossed
the finish line first in the 3,000-me-
ter run (8:19.32). The performance
was Michigan's lone victory of the
meet. Following Williams's lead,
Christmas finished second in the
event (8:24.82).
"It was really a tremendous race
he had in the 1,500," LaPlante said.
"Then he came back and won the
3,000. It was a track record."
Though no one else took home
an event title, the rest of the team
shared Williams's success.
Senior Dan Harmsen continued
to improve his time in the 400-me-
ter hurdles. Competing against one
of the best hurdlers in the nation,
Harmsen finished second (51.21)
to Reuben McCoy, a recent Auburn
alum, who finished second at the
NCAA Championships last year.

The invitational was an opportu-
nity for the Wolverines to prepare
for their much-anticipated match
up with Ohio State in the outdoor
edition of The Dual next weekend.
The last time around, Michigan
hosted the indoor meet against the
Buckeyes on Jan. 17 and lost, 77-85.
The meet was decided in the final
event, the 4x400-meter relay. The
Wolverines were edged out by just
over a second.
Not only was the team without
Williams for The Dual, but they
could have used the help of senior
Andre Barnes in the 4x400-meter
relay, who was scratched from the
meet because of an ankle injury.
With a sixth-place finish in the
400-meter dash this past weekend,
Barnes posted his fastest time in
the event this season (47.82). Barnes
also contributed to the second-
place 4x100-meter relay team.
The 4x400-meter relay show-
cased the Wolverines' efforts in
the sprinting events. The team of
Barnes, Harmsen and sophomores
David St. Amant and Carl Bucha-

non crossed the line fourth against
a competitive field (3:09.36). Amant
anchored the relay and finished
with a 46.90 split for the last 400
meters, a performance that was
good enough to give Michigan
another regional qualifying mark.
"I took the first 300 and ran it,"
St. Amant said. "Then with the last
100, I went all out. The first three
guys put me in a great position."
In the field events, redshirt
junior Sean Pruitt continued to
rewrite the Michigan record books
in the hammer throw. His 199-foot-
5-inch throw catapulted him into
third place and set a new school
record.
A healthy Williams could help
secure Michigan's first Big Ten
victory of the outdoor season and
regain the pennant which is award-
ed to the winner of The Dual. Ohio
State took the top spots in the 1,500-
and 3,000-meter runs in January,
dominating the distance events.
"We certainly want to beat them
and they want to beat us," LaPlante
said. "That's what makes it fun."
PALUSHAJ
From page 1B
and strength are light-years ahead
of where they were at the end of last
season. He praised the AHL's devel-
opment of young players, suggesting
it serves as an accurate barometer for
how close players are to the NHL.
Palushaj's exceptional playmaking
ability makes him a constant threat
in the offensive zone. In 82 career
games at Michigan, Palushaj tallied
23 goals and 71 assists. Palushaj led
the Wolverines this season in scoring
with 50 points and was tied for third
in goals with 13. After a mid-semes-
ter lull this winter, Palushaj finished
the season with 10 points in his last
seven games.
"His No. 1 asset is his vision of
the ice and his stick-work skill," said
junior defenseman Chris Summers,
who was named next year's team
captain Sunday. "He's an unbeliev-

4

4

Junior Lex Williams won the 3,000-meter run, Michigan's lone win of the meet.

PURDUE
From page 1B
extra innings before junior
catcher Roya St. Clair broke the
stalemate with the game-win-
ning hit for the Wolverines in the
ninth.
Unranked thus far this season
and winless against the Wol-
verines in three seasons, the
Boilermakers' excitement was
evident in their performance as a
victory against the No. 10
team in the country seemed pos-
sible.
"In our case, we have to avoid
those kind of thought process-
es," Hutchins said. "Our thought
process is play the game because
the game doesn't know who's
supposed to win. The game only
knows there are three outs, three
strikes and that's how you play
the game.

"If you approach it like that
consistently, you have a better
chance."
Pitching was a major factor in
the close games.
In the opening contest, Michi-
gan came away with a 3-1 win
largely due to junior Nikki Nem-
itz's three-hit performance.
She stayed ahead in the count
consistently and gave up no
walks.
Meanwhile, Purdue's Suzie
Rzegocki, who pitched both games
for the Boilermakers, consistently
fell behind and surrendered nine
hits, walking five Wolverines en
route to a 3-1 loss.
The pitching performanc-
es flip-flopped in game two
when sophomore Jordan Tay-
lor started in the circle for the
Wolverines. Taylor let up three
runs and fell behind in the count
often.
Rzegocki regained an advan-

tage from the strip despite throw-
ing 89 pitches in the opening
loss.
Once Purdue tied it up at
three in the sixth, Nemitz went
in for Taylor and quickly ended
the inning with back-to-back
outs.
The game went into extra
innings, the fifth overtime game
for Michigan this season. The
Wolverines are 3-2 in those con-
tests.
Finally, in the ninth inning,
freshman outfielder Bree Evans
bunted to get on base before St.
Clair hit a solid ball to the out-
field, her fourth game-winning
hit of the season.
"I had been hitting her pretty
good all day," St. Clair said. "I
worked the count a little bit. Any-
thing she was going to bring near
the plate, I was going to take a
good cut at it, try to get it into the
gap and score that run."

able stick-handler. His puck deci-
sions are right on almost 100 percent
of the time."
Despite his abilities in the offen-
sive zone, Palushaj brings with him
some question marks. While he was
pleased with his progression under
the team's strength-and-condition-
ing program, he expressed some con-
cern over how he will handle skating
with older and bigger players.
Palushaj, listed as 5-feet-11, 175-
pounds on Peoria's website, is now
the lightest (and youngest) player on
a lineup that features skaters who
weigh has much as 50 pounds heavi-
er. He admitted he still needs more
time in the weight room to have a
legitimate shot at making St. Louis's
roster in training camp in Septem-
ber.
While Palushaj showed some
improvement on defense during
his two years at Michigan, Beren-
son didn't use him to kill penalties.
Should his offensive output struggle

as he becomes acclimated to minor-
league hockey, he will likely need to
prove himself defensivelyto make an
early impression on scouts.
Michigan's coaches are confident
they can develop a player's size,
strength and defense. And while
Palushaj remains grateful for the
time he spent under them, he found
the temptation of professional hock-
ey too great to pass up.
And it's a dream that at least one
teammate thinks players should
approach with a lotof perspective.
"I think (Berenson) says it best:
you're preparing for a life after hock-
ey," Summers said. "There's more to
the world than just skating on the ice
every day. It's a game. It should be
enjoyed.And I think that's what alot
of players miss out on, that it should
be fun.
"It's unfortunate that it turns into
a business once you get to the profes-
sional rankings, but that's the way it
is."

I

4


