1I E X 1''llt I

DRE"E .

At-,.S 0 F ED 1 1T fIAL.,F

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, March 2,2009

michigandaily.com

A FOND FAREWELL

IWF' a
k

I


W MMW ' AV A IL

TfAT, All
4*0
Y

;.
' r'' . ',
"9
.' ° ,. c
3.
n
,;, ..
:. Pik 'u
¢...
.
;
F ,.&.
ySi

MEDICAL SCHOOL TRAINING
University
ends use of
live dogs in
courses

For a slideshow of the Wolverines' weekend series
against Ferris State, go to michigandaily.com..

SAID ALSAL AH/Daly
Senior goaltender Billy Sauer, who was benched in favor of sophomore Bryan Hogan this season, was
given the nod in net Saturday against Ferris State. He posted a 4-0 shutout win on Senior Night in what
could be his final appearance in Yost Ice Arena. For more on the game, see SportsMonday, Page1B.

BOOSTING ANN ARBOR'S ECONOMY
A2 officials ready stimulus wishlist

Decision comes
amid complaints
from medical
ethics committee
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
In a statement released Thurs-
day, the University of Michigan
Health System announced that it
would no longer use live dogs in
its Advanced Trauma Life Sup-
port course at the University's
Medical School.
The decision comes after
the Physician's Committee for
Responsible Medicine - a non-
profit organization that promotes
ethical research and experiment
methods - heavily criticized
-UMHS for the practice and filed
a complaint with the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture arguing that
Dr. Richard Burney, a Medical
School professor, misled a Uni-
versity committee in order to use
live animals in his course.
UMHS has now decided to
use only simulated models for its
training, like the TraumaMan
System - an artificial human sys-
tem that allows users to practice
surgical procedures.
The UMHS statement released
cited a recommendation from an
internal committee as the reason
for the change.
"The decision comes from a
recommendation by the Health

System's Graduate Medical Edu-
cation Committee after a review
of simulators that can be used to
train medical professionals in
trauma procedures," the state-
ment said.
The statement also said UMHS
carefully considers the educa-
tional benefit against the resourc-
es required when evaluating a
project or course.
"In all of its educational
endeavors, careful attention
is given to matching the opti-
mal learning tools and settings
to trainees' needs - including
simulation methods through
the Medical School's advanced
simulation center, where stu-
dents, physicians-in-training and
nurses learn using mannequins,
computer-based simulations and
virtual trainers," the statement
said.
UMHS officials declined
further comment Friday when
details about the policy change
were sought.
Dr. John Pippin, a senior medi-
cal and research adviser for the
PCRM, congratulated UMHS on
its announcement.
"We are very pleased that U-M
has conducted a careful review
of teaching methods for their
Advanced Trauma Life Support
Program, and that simulators are
replacing shelter dogs acquired
through pound seizure," he
wrote in an e-mail Friday. "This
is yet more confirmation that it is
unnecessary to use and kill ani-
mals to teach trauma skills."

Plan
re
Hou
Slight
After
billion s
Ann Ar
quickly
some of
to help t
Whil
lates tha
money
the oth

is include bridge for "shovel-ready" social programs
issued at the state level and often
pairs near Big administered at the local level.
Ann Arbor City Councilmember
ise, making city Leigh Greden (D-Ward 3), who is
coordinating the stimulus requests
ts more efficient for Ann Arbor's City Council, said
that the city compiled a wish list of
By LARA ZADE shovel-ready public works projects
Daily StaffReporter it is hoping the stimulus package
will fund.
Congress passed its $787 Though the city has dozens of
timulus package last month, projects that it would like to be
bor City Council members funded by the stimulus package,
began talking about how Greden said the city has prioritized
that money might be used five projects.
:he city. "The first on the list is anything
e the federal plan stipu- related to repairing Stadium Bou-
at 36 percent of the stimulus levard," he said. "The two south-
must go toward tax rebates, ern lanes of Stadium Boulevard are
er 64 percent will be used closed at the bridge because the

beam that supports that part of the
bridge is deteriorating."
Greden said the city would like
to rebuild the bridge entirely, but
the cost would exceed the amount
of stimulus funding that the whole
county will receive.
Keeping this in mind, the city
expects $500,000 for emergency
repairs to the beam so that traffic
can be opened back up again.
Greden said he's fairly confident
that the city will receive the fund-
ing for the bridge's emergency
repairs because the Washtenaw
Area Transportation Study, the
city's local transportation coordi-
nator, has included the Stadium
Boulevard project as one of its top
priorities.
See WISHLIST, Page 7A

ANN ARBOR'S WISHLIST
The ftie projects officials hope will get
stimulus tunding and estimated costs.
$500,000
Emergencyrepairsfor deteriorating parts
of the bridgeon Statium Boulevard
$1 MILLION
Weatherization of city's low-income housing
$12 MILLION
Phase twoof the projectlto upgrade the
Ann Arbor Municipal Center
$3 MILLION
Phasetwo of a greening project at
Fifth and Division Street
$3.8 MILLION
Convertingall of the city's lights to
environmentally-friendlyLED lights


UNIVERSITY LICENSING
After complaints, 'U' to cut
contract with Russell Corp.

Your bus's ETA? Just a text away

Athletic apparel
company alledgedly
fired employees for
trying to unionize
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
University officials announced
last week that. a licensing con-
tract between the University and

Russell Corporation, an athletic
apparel manufacturer that has
recently come under fire for alleg-
edly infringing on its workers'
rights, will not be renewed.
Russell Corp. has been accused
of firing employees from two of the
company's manufacturing plants
in Honduras because the workers
attempted to unionize.
The University's Advisory Com-
mittee on Labor Standards and
Human Rights sent a letter to Uni-
versity officials last month asking

them not to renew the contract
with Russell Corp. when it expires
at the end of March.
"Because of the company's pre-
vious failure to adhere to its own
standards of conduct, we do not
feel that continuing the license,
even under strict monitoring of any
new code of conduct, is appropri-
ate," the letter said.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said the committee's
recommendation was the main
See CONTRACT, Page 7A

Ph.D. student's new
system could cut
waiting times at
campus bus stops
By MATT AARONSON
Daily StaffReporter
Everyone hates waiting for the
bus.
Computer Science and Engi-
neering Ph.D. student Scott Wol-
chok is no exception.
So when Wolchok, who regu-
larly rode the University buses as
an undergraduate, saw a way that
he could cut back on time spent
waiting at the bus stop, he jumped
on it.
Wolchok recently created
UmBus, a program that allows
students to check Magic Bus -
an online bus tracking service
from their cell phones. By texting
"umbus" to 41411, and using a few
simple commands, students can
find out when a bus will be arriv-
ing at a specific stop.
Magic Bus, a project funded by
Parking&TransportationServices
and carried outby the Atmospher-
ic, Oceanic and Space Science
Department in the College of
Engineering in 2004, adapts GPS
bus tracking to an online interface.
The site gives a route view that

CAMPUS LGBT CONFERENCE
University picked for 2011 LGBT event

Annual conference
draws more than
1,500 people a year
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
The University won a bid last
month to host the annual Midwest
Bisexual Lesbian Gay Transgender

Ally College Conference in Febru-
ary 2011L
For the past 16 years, students
from colleges across the Midwest
have attended these conferences,
which draw about 1,500 partici-
pants each year. The aim of the
conference is to raise awareness
of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans-
gender issues through a weekend
of workshops, speakers and state
caucuses.

The University of Michigan bid
team presented at this year's con-
ference at Indiana University last
month in hopes of winning host-
ing rights to the conference in 2011.
The bid team was composed of
multiple LGBT students and was
advised by Spectrum Center Assis-
tant Directors Lauren Sherry and
Gabe Javier.
Javiersaid the University'sLGBT
See CONFERENCE, Page 7A

Ph.D. student Scott Wolchok has created a way to track campus buses by phone.
displays the number of minutes Wolchok had been using Magic
until a bus arrives at a given stop, Bus since its launch in 2006, even
as well as a map view that shows developing his own desktop and
color-coded buses' positions on a Web applications for it in his free
Google map. See BUSES, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 2 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LU:15 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The Daily's Big Ten hoops power rankings.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S .................................2A ARTS.................... ..........,. 5A
Vol. CXIX,No.100 SUDOKU.................. 3A CLASSIFIEDS. . . A.........6A
v2009TheMichiganDaily OPINION....................4A SPORTSMONDAY................AB
michinandoilycuw

4 4

l 1


2A - Monday, March 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com @

2A - Monday, March 2, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *


Retired UNC faculty offer free work

SPRING (BREAK) CLEANING

(1 t iC ign 0aily
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Basiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sunrhurs.n11a.m.-2am.
734-763-24s9
News Tips newsomichigandaily.com

Retired faculty members
from the University of North
Carolina are telling UNC
officials they are willing
to return to the school and
teach courses without any
compensation, The Daily Tar
Heel reported in an article
last week.
According to The Daily Tar
Heel, the UNC Retired Faculty
Association approved a reso-
lution to offer their services
free of charge in order to help
minimize the impact of budget
cuts on students.
Some faculty are skepti-
cal of the proposal, includ-
ing Joe Templeton, chairman,
of the faculty. Templeton
told The Daily Tar Heel that
UNC guidelines would need
to be reviewed first to see if
the retired faculty would be
allowed to return to their pre-
viously held positions.

YALE UNIVERSITY TO
FIRE UP TO 300 STAFF
TheYale Daily Newsreport-
ed that Yale University may lay
off as many as 300 employees
in an effort to cope with the
current economic situation.
Officials at Yale told the'
Yale Daily News they are
planning to double severance
benefits for all employees let
go, which would provide two
weeks of full pay for each year
of service to the university up
to 26 years.
Yale still expects a $100 mil-
lion budget deficit expected for
the 2010 fiscal year, according
to the Yale Daily News.
WISCONSIN DOCTOR
TAKES FIRE ON LARGE
ROYALTY PAYMENTS
Dr.ThomasA.Zdeblick,chair-
man ofthe University ofWiscon-
sin'sDepartmentofOrthopedics,

has come under heavy criticism
when it was reported recently
thathe collected $19.4 million in
third party payments from 2003
to 2004.
The report by The Chroni-
cle of Higher Education cites
the figures, which outline the
payments Zdeblick received
from Medtronic - a medi-
cal company that supplies the
spinal implants that Zdeblick
invented.
Many critics, including Sen.
Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa),
admit there is not definitive
evidence of any wrongdoing
on Zdeblick's part, but say the
shortage of evidence on either
side is part of the problem,
according to the Chronicle.
Medtronic told the Chronicle
the payments were legitimate r
royalty payments on inventions
belonging to Zdeblick. SDT Waste and
- KYLE SWANSON left in the street
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Corrections
Letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassified Sales
Online Sales

corrections@michigandaily.com
toihedaily@michigandaiy.com
photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@niichigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES

Intoxicated man Bag stolen from Weekly public
urinates all over shared office lecture by Ralph
hospital benches WHERE: ElectricalEngineer- Williams

WHERE: East Medical Center
Parking Lot
WHEN: Sunday at aboutl1:15 a.m.
WHAT: A man unaffiliated
with the University urinated
on concrete benches out-
side the emergency room
entrance, University Police
reported.

ing and Computer Science
Building -
WHEN: Friday at about 9:40
p.m.
WHAT: A staff member's
bag was stolen from a shared
office between 11:30 a.m. and
1:30 p.m., University Police
reported. The bag contained a
wallet, credit cards, eye glass-
es and a cellphone.

Stranger takes
shower in Grad Laptop stolen

WHAT: English Professor
Ralph Williams will hold his
weekly "Of Human Bonding"
lecture. The lecture is free
and open to the public.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Today from 7:00 -
9:00 p.m.
WHERE: Natural Science
Auditorium
Wine-making
exhibition
WHAT: Prof. Daniel T.
Longone will curate an exhi-
bition featuring books and
ephemera about the history
of American wine making.
WHO: Arts At Michigan
WHEN: Today from 1:00 -
4:45 p.m.
WHERE: William Clements
Library

LGBTQ and
friends lunch
WHAT: Monthlyluncheon
for LGBTQ and ally staff
and faculty at the University.
There is no cost to attend, but
you must purchase your own
food.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today at 12:00 p.m.
WHERE: U-Club, Michigan
Union
Free HIVtesting
WHAT: Free and anony-
mous HtV testing will be
offered by a counselor from
the HIV/AIDS Resource
Center.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today from 6:00 -
8:00 p.m.
WHERE: Room 3200, Michi-
gan Union
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The Earl of Iveagh is being
prosecuted for having 1
million tires and approxi-
mately 1,000 tons of rubber
on his property, the Telegraph
reported. The materials were
allegedly on his property
before he purchased it. He
faces fees up to £400,000 to
remedy the situation.
The recently passed stim-
ulus package has added
$14 billion to the Pell
Grant Foundation, which pre-
viouly had $16 billioninfund-
log. The additional funds are
expected to increase the aver-
age grant by $200 next year.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
Two hospitals in the
United Kingdom recently
decided to remove hand
sanitizer dispensers because
patients were mixing the sub-
stance, which contained 75
percent alcohol, with orange
juice and soda, the Telegraph
reported.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SMilOVitZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Julie Rowe, Lindy Stevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoler Kyle Swanson
RobertSoave EditorialPage Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton, Brian Flaherty,Rachel VanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITOR S: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT S PORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Posper, ,Col R: nw
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENssAaTS EDsTaS:'aie Blck,nBan:donConradis:, tnyePow
ASSTANTRTSR DITORS:oshua BayervAdrarinDavRapBenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
ClifReeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, SamWolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary.Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimeadiEtor merian@mnichigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboer DisplayAdvertising Sales Manager
DIPA VETS G ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Ryan lasinakiClasified Sales Mnar
Cassiedsa s stantMager: Also omas
Marissa Gerber Online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
ThenMichigan Daitt (StN074-967)ilished Mondays5:thuh Fidydurinthe fallandwi te
Additionacopiesmaybe pickedupattheDaiy'soficefor$2.subscriptionsforfta and winterterm
(September through AprilviaU.s.nmalareC$20.Year-roundsubscriptionstall winterSpring and
summerissuesares22.Subscriptionsmusbe prepaid.TheMichiganDayisamember oThe
AssociatedPress andThe AssociatedCollegiatePress

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Friday at about8:45 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
an unknown individual was
taking a shower in the sixth
floor unisex bathroom, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
individual was escorted out of
the building.

from laboratory
WHERE: Herbert H. Dow
Building
WHEN: Saturday at about 2:45
p.m.
WHAT: A laptop valued at $700
was stolenfrom a lab thatwas
left unlocked and unattended,
University Police reported.

[

Renowned. Respected.
And really close to home.

4

Oakland University offers more than 100 prestigious graduate programs in the hottest fields,
including master's degrees and short-term certificates so you can:
Stand out from colleagues
Increase your career options
Quickly retool your credentials
Plus research shows those with master's degrees enjoy higher pay, increased employee
benefits, and a better work/life balance than their peers without this credential*
Convenient locations in Oakland and Macomb counties,
and flexible payment options make earning a - e r t
graduate degree easier than you think.
*"Your Big Payday," by AI Fanter, published in Yahoo! Education 2008,
based on a 1998 study bythe institute of igher Education Policy.
Get more information
or apply online at
www.oakland.edu/gograd
or call (248) 370-3167.
Master of '
Oak and
UNIVERSWY ________________________

4

4

4

4





The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday,.March 2, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Mondsy,.March 2, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Obama chief of staff
criticizes Detroit's
ailing automakers
The president's chief of staff
criticized U.S. car companies yes-
terday for relying too long on gas
guzzlers and not investing enough
in alternative energy vehicles.
Rahm Emanuel also said the
automakers have an outdated
health care cost structure. He said
the companies are making the kind
of changes now that many people
long had told them to make.
President Barack Obama's auto
industry task force is trying to
restructure General Motors Corp.
and Chrysler LLC by a March 31
deadline. If the Obama adminis-
tration fails to approve their turn-
around plans, earlier loans could
be called back and the companies
could be forced into bankruptcy.
GM and Chrysler have received
$17.4 billion in loans, and are
seeking an additional $21.6 billion
in aid.
The administration's top budget
official, Peter Orszag, said on ABC's
"This Week" that Americans can
expect higher energy prices as a
result of the administration's bud-
get and stimulus plans.
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark.
Arkansas QB Ryan
Mallett arrested
Fayetteville police arrested
Arkansas quarterback Ryan Mallett
on a public intoxication charge early
yesterday outside of a nightspot
near campus.
The 20-year-old Mallett was
booked into the Washington Coun-
ty Jail at 3:47 a.m. after Fayetteville
police arrested him on Dickson
Street. Mallett was released on bond
about anhour later.
Coach Bobby Petrino said Mallett
would be disciplined.
Mallett is seen as the likely start-
er for the Razorbacks in 2009. He
sat out 2008 after transferring from
Michigan.
"I am very disappointed that
Ryan Mallett put himself in a situ-
ation that doesn't reflect positively
on him or on our program," Petri-
no said.
WASHINGTON
U.S: says Iran has
enough material for
R nuclear bomb
ThetopU.S.militaryofficialsaid
Sunday that Iran has sufficient fis-
sile material for a nuclear weapon,
declaring it would be a "very, very
bad outcome" should Tehran move
forward with a bomb.
Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, offered
the assessment when questioned
in a broadcast interview about a
recent report by the U.N. nuclear
watchdog on the state of Iran's
uranium enrichment program,
which can create nuclear fuel and
may be sufficiently advanced to
produce the core of warheads.
Mullen was asked if Iran now

had enough fissile material to
make a bomb. He responded, "We
think they do, quite frankly. And
Iran having a nuclear weapon I've
believed for a long time is a very,
very bad outcome for the region
and for the world."
State Department spokesman
Robert A. Wood said Sunday that it
was not possible say how much fis-
sile material Iran has accumulated.
BASTROP, Texas
23 homes destroyed
in central Texas fire
A wildfire fueled by grass, brush
and trees has destroyed at least 23
homes and three businesses in cen-
tral Texas.
Officials say two National Guard
helicopters joined other aircraft
Sunday in dropping water on the
blaze near the towns of Bastrop
and Smithville.
Gov. Rick Perry has activated
state resources, including four
Blackhawk helicopters equipped to
drop water and fire retardant, fire-
fighters and equipment.
The wildfire has charred just
over a square mile since it was
started Saturday by a fallen power
 line.
Texas Forest Service spokesman
Lewis Kearney says the fire is about
50 percent contained.
He says some residents who
were evacuated during the night
were being escorted back into
 the area Sunday to identify their
 property.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

AIG to get up
to .$30 billion,
more in Fed aid
Source says Under the new deal, the U.S.
Treasury and the Federal Reserve
insurance company would provide about $30 billion in
fresh capital to AIG from the gov-
will announce $60B ernment's Troubled Assets Relief
Program, or TARP. The money
in quarterly losses would be provided as a standby line
of equity that AIG could tap as its
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) - losses mount, the source said.
Struggling insurer American Inter- AIG has already received $40
national Group Inc. will receive up billion from TARP.
to $30 billion in additional federal In exchange for the latest infu-
assistance in the fourth govern- sion, the Federal Reserve would
ment rescue of the company, a per- take stakes in two international
son familiar with the matter told units, the source said.
The Associated Press yesterday. Instead of paying back $38 bil-
The new infusion is intended lion in cash with interest that it
to prop up AIG - once the world's has used from a Federal Reserve
largest insurer - as it is expected to credit line, AIG now will repay
announce $60 billion in quarterly that amount with equity stakes
lossesearlytoday,thesourcesaidon Asia-based American International
the condition of anonymity because Assurance Co. and American Life
the discussions are still ongoing. Insurance Co., which operates in
Thecompany,whichisconsidered 50 countries.
too large to fail, previously received Under the plan, another $20 bil-
about $150 billion in loans from the lion from a Federal Reserve credit
government, which now has an 80 line remains available for borrow-
percent stake in the company. ing, the source said.
Lions player lost off
Florida's Gulf Coast

President Barack Obama speaks about his fiscal 2010 federal budget, Thursday, Feb, 26, 2009, in the Eisenhower Executive
Office Building on the White House campus in Washington as Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner (middle) and Budget Director
Peter Orszag (right) listen.
Budget chief: Oba-ma
will sign spending bill

Orszag says Obama
would sign $410
billion spending bill
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
White House yesterday down-
played massive deficit spending
and President Barack Obama's
pledge not to sign legislation
laden with billions in earmarks
amid Republican criticism that he
was .recanting on a key campaign
promise.
The administration's top budget
official, Peter Orszag, said Obama
would sign the $410 billion spend-
ing bill despite a campaign pledge
that he would reject tailored bud-
get requests that let lawmakers
send money to their home states.
Orszag said Obama would move
ahead and overlook the time-
tested tradition that lets officials
divert millions at a time to pet,
projects.
It was the Washington equiva-
lent of officials pinching their nose
and swallowing a bitter pill.
"This is last year's business,"
Orszag said, offering an acknowl-
edgment that Obama would sign a
bill that doesn't conform with his
campaign vows. "We want to just
move on. Let's get this bill done,
get it into law and move forward."
White House chief of staff Rahm
Emanuel offered mirrored lan-
guage: "That's last year's business."
The House last week passed the
measure that would keep the gov-

ernment open for business through
Sept. 30, when the federal budget
year ends. Taxpayers for Common
Sense, a watchdog group, identi-
fied almost 8,600 earmarks total-
ing $7.7 billion; Democrats say the
number is $3.8 billion.
Regardless of the precise num-
ber, it was still far more than
Obama promised as a candidate.
He refused earmarks for the eco-
nomic stimulus package he cham-
pioned, as well as a children's
health bill.
"We're going to be working
with the Congress. We want to
make sure that earmarks are
reduced and they're also transpar-
ent. We're going to work with
the Congress on a set of reforms
to achieve those," said Orszag,
who is director of the Office of
Management and Budget.
Obama's top hands assigned
responsibility to their prede-
cessors and President George
W. Bush. By blaming Bush-era
proposals for deficits, Obama
wanted to set up his own bud-
get, which he unveiled last
week with a bold proposal to
cut the deficit by half within his
four-year term with the budget
that would start Oct.1.
"First, this is a $1.7 trillion
deficit he inherited. Let's be
clear about that. We inherited
this deficit and we inherited $4
trillion of new debt," Emanuel
said. "That is the facts."
Facts, aides said, would be the
cornerstone of the administra-
Mention This AD
And Receive $100 Off. Now is the
perfect time to prep with the
nation's leader in test preparation.
-Small Classes
" Expert Instructors
- Great Score Increase
Pri ion
Revww

tion'spublic relations push. Officials
faced a tough haul, even as Orszag
and others said the proposal would
raise taxes on wealthy Americans
and increase energy costs.
Emanuel said energy costs are
too low, anyway. U.S. car compa-
nies relied too long on gas-guz-
zling autos and failed to invest in
alternative energy vehicles, he
said, and contended that the time
for new auto fuels is now.
"They never invested in both
alternative energy cars. They
got dependent on big gas guz-
zlers. They didn't do - they have
a health care cost structure that's
outdated," Emanuel said.

Defensive end Corey
Smith among four
boaters to not return
from fishing trip
CLEARWATER, Fla. (AP)
- Detroit Lions defensive end
Corey Smith and Oakland Raid-
ers linebacker Marquis Cooper
were among four boaters missing
yesterday offFlorida's Gulf Coast,
the Coast Guard and Smith's
agent said.
Smith and Cooper were on a
21-foot vessel that left Clearwa-
ter Pass for a fishing trip Satur-
day morning and did not return
as expected, the Coast Guard said
yesterday. Crews used a helicop-
ter and a 47-foot boat to search
a 750-square mile area west of

Clearwater Pass yesterday.
Cooper owns the boat and he
and Smith have been on fishing
trips before, said Ron Del Duca,
Smith's agent. The pair had been
teammates on the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers in 2004. The Coast
Guard said two others were
aboard, identified as Will Bleakley
and Nick Schuyler. The St. Peters-
burg Times on its Web site identi-
fied them as former University of
South Florida players. Calls to the
school by The Associated Press
were not immediately returned.
Coast Guard Capt. Timothy M.
Close said the weather early Sat-
urday had been fair, but worsened
toward the evening as a front still
battering the area moved in. The
National Weather Service said
seas were about 2 to 4 feet Satur-
day morning and increased to 3to
5 feet in the afternoon.

CHOOSE CHANGE
' Georgetown University.
. tfgis.
Link yourself into Washington, DC, at
Georgetown University this summer.
- Learn with students from all over the world while
you experience life in the nation's capital.
* Network with professionals who can help you
advance your career.
* Enjoy the Georgetown shopping district, area
parks, national monuments, museums, art, night
life, and nearby Maryland and Virginia beaches.
* Take advantage of an opportunity that can happen
only this summer at Georgetown.
CHOOSE FROM
OVER 300 COURSES
Take courses that span the intellectual
,spectrum-including art, math, science,.
business, public policy, languages,
- . international studies, theology,
gender studies, and more.
ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PROGRAMS
Intern and Study: The Semester
in Washington Program
June 1 - August 7, 2009
Intern at Washington, DC area government
agencies, firms, nonprofits, corporations, and
the Congress while earning academic credit
through related courses.
scs.georgetown,edu/washington
 Summer Arabic and Persian
Language Institute
1st Session: June 1 - July2, 2009
2nd Session: July 6 - August 7, 2009
Learn Modern Standard Arabic,
Arabic dialects (Egyptian, Levantine,
and Iraqi), Persian, and
Turkish this summer.
scs.georgetown.edu/arabicpersian

A



4A - Monday, March 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com.

c l e c4Awigan ailm

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Y Ann Arbor, MI 48109
oi- tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROMT E DAILY
Unreasonable costs
'U' must avoid burdening students with higher tuition
n Friday, presidents of Michigan universities lobbied before.
state legislators, asking for more funding from the state. The
response was less than promising, with Rep. Bob Genetski
(R-Saugatuck) wondering aloud if it's worth funding both Eastern
Michigan University and the University of Michigan's teaching pro-
grams if they're only a few miles away. This attitude from legislators
is troubling because funding decreases will force individual univer-
sities to pick up the slack - and the University, for its part, has grown
accustomed to passing these costs onto the students. At a time when
maintaining the quality and accessibility of a college education is
more important than ever, the state and the University must avoid
leaving students with the short end of the financial stick.

I know they're gearing up for a fight as we speak.
My message to them is this: So am I."
- President Barack Obama, predicting opposition from insurance, oil and gas companies to his
plans for health care, energy and education, as reported yesterday by the New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI OUT T PASTURE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
Yeah Didne ego
Dd you hear President something Iikw 'Let me say Allthat was missing was the
Obama speak about his Iraq this as plainly as I can: by g suitWandthe "Mission
plan break? August 31, 201 en. our t Accomplshed" banner.
missionsin Iraq will esdr
"*" a o - pr
Jindl'sall-oo-amilar tor

4

4

I

Michigan universities are facing a pro-
posed 3 percent cut in funding, as part of
Gov. Jennifer Granholm's recent higher
education budget proposal. Granholm also
called on state universities to freeze tuition,
with the hope that federal stimulus money
willhelp tomake up the difference.And with
the passage of President Barack Obama's
stimulus package, nearly $14 billion will be
added to the $16 billion already available in
the Federal Pell Grant program. .
But even though the federal government
has increased funding for Pell Grants, it
remains to be seen whether the increase will
make a significant difference for students.
The extra funds will increase the maximum
loan by about $700 and also will increase the
number of recipients, while the average allo-
cation of funds will increase by about $200
in 2009-10 and $400 by 2010-11. Additional
money for students is always welcome but
in the large scheme of things, this will only
impact a small number of students.
"The extra federal money will have lit-
tle impact in light of proposed significant
funding cuts at the state level. Granholm is
in an admittedly tough position, but reduc-
ing funding for higher education will be

bad for the state economy. Michigan needs
a college-educated workforce to carry its
economy and industries into the 21st cen-
tury. The state economy will never catch up
if Michigan students are kept out of college
because of escalating tuition.
In the past few years, the University's
answer to any budgetary issue has been to
raise tuition. Tuition has already gone up
a nauseating 34.6 percent in the past four
years, and it's long past time to stop that
trend. There are certainly other areas in
which the University can pinch pennies
without compromisingeducationalintegrity,
even if the state deals it a decrease in fund-
ing. Raising tuition should not be an option
for the University at this point - students
just can't afford it, and the cost of tuition is
becoming a barrier to attending college.
Provost Teresa Sullivan, foreseeing an
outcry from students, has again created a
committee with the goal of hearing a student
perspective on the issue. But the University
administration needs to actually listen to the
feedback it receives, and the message from
students couldn't be clearer - tuition must
not increase. The administration shouldn't
need a committee to realize this.

Bobby Jindal told a beautiful
story. Are we all terrible people
for ignoring it?
In his Republi-
can response fol-
lowing President
Barack Obama's
address to Con-
gress on Tuesday,
Louisiana's gov-
ernor was many
things. Chief
among them, as IMRAN
any number of
YouTube compila-
tions will attest,
was awkward.
Attempting to emulate the genial calm
and folksiness of Ronald Reagan, the
generally eloquent Jindal misfired
badly. From Mr. Rogers to "Sesame
Street" to Kenneth the Page from "30
Rock," Jindal's slow, halting over-
enunciations and his robotic Southern
drawl have drawn numerous unflatter-
ing (but painfully fair) comparisons.
But even aside from tone, the speech
was also errant in substance. Jin-
dal cited the response to Hurricane
Katrina as an example of how govern-
ment has failed us, but he failed to note
that the chief problem was the Repub-
lican administration and the corners it
had cut in terms of both preparedness
and response capability. Smugly, he
mocked plans for a light-rail line from
Las Vegas to Los Angeles as a wasteful,
exorbitant use of tax dollars - despite
the fact that Americans overwhelm-
ingly support expansion of regional
mass-transit systems.
Perhaps most nauseating of all, Jin-
dal - governor of the state that nearly
saw its largest city wiped off the map
in a major natural disaster - actually
mocked funding "something called vol-
cano monitoring." As a friend of mine
commented during the speech, "the
cognitive dissonance: It is delicious."
But even if the 90 percent of Jindal's
speech that has been widely lambasted

was an utter miscalculation, that still
leaves the 10percent that was supposed
to be the main focus. Entitled "Ameri-
cans Can Do Anything," the speech
was supposed to highlight Jindal's
(parents') immigrant roots, and engen-
der those warm, fuzzy feelings Ameri-
cans tend to get from such stories.
As Jindal recounted his parents'
wonder at America's stocked shelves,
boundless opportunities and friendly
people, it should have been easy for all
of us, immigrant or not, to get caught
up in the moment (again, lethally sac-
charine tone aside). One assumes the
speech was meant to inspire us all in
our nation's dark hour by reminding
us of the high regard in which people
across the world hold America - or at
least once did.
This gets at the main point that Jin-
dal seems to have missed completely:
this isn't the nineteenth or twentieth
centuries. Long gone are the days when
bleary-eyed foreigners, exhausted
from a fruitless day of toil and hard-
ship, would look to the distant shores
of America for relief, redemption and
prosperity.
Today is far removed from 1959,
when my grandfather boarded ship,
plane, train and bus to get to college in
Carbondale, Ill. It's' also far removed
from 1971, when Jindal's own father
and mother settled in Baton Rouge,
also for an education. Today, illegal
immigrants are actually leaving this
country voluntarily because they can't
find jobs.
Consider the full sadness of Jindal's
errant perception of what America
needed to hear from the Republican
party: Jindal was selected to give the
Republican response because he was a
fresh, different face for the party that
has become known for its blandness
and whiteness. He was to inspire and
awe (like Obama at the 2004 Demo-
cratic National Convention) with his
colorful life story, one so uniquely
American that it has become a rarity in

the GOP
And he failed. Badly.
Not only did he fail, but in his failure
Jindal showed himself to be just as out
of touch and imperceptive to America's
role in the world today as anyone else
in his imploding party. It was quite the
death blow to a party that thought it
had found its own articulate savior of
color.
No, we are not terrible people, for d
completely discounting the story
Bobby Jindal told. Far from it, the
fact that viewers didn't get caught up
in the poetic beauty masking an all-
too-familiar (failed), anti-government

4

A speech painfully
lacking in both
tone and substance.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

ideology shows that we've grown up
as a nation. Where it would have once
been taboo for compassionate people
to mock a man who told his immi-
grant story, our nation has emerged
to a point where we can ask "Okay and
so what?" without feeling the guilt of
ethnocentrism.
Perhaps this is the first sign of the
post-racial society we all believed
Obama's election had initiated. Obvi-
ously, this nation has a long way to go,
and it is unfortunate that Jindal had to
bethefirstcasualty,buthemayrecover.
As we approach the day when minori-
ties will collectively be the majority
in this country, our nation is better off
knowing that a bad policy is a bad pol-
icy, no matter how far away its espous-
er's parents may have been born.
- Imran Syed was the Daily's
editorial page editor in 2007. He can
be reached at galad@umich.edu.

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Early spring break
with many benefits

comes "familial obligations f
travel plans difficult.
As for minglingA
ing new ones during
communal break -

TO THE DAILY: their breaks differer
After reading the Daily's editorial (Breaking the University could
with tradition, 02/19/2009), I felt compelled to coincide with more t
defendthe University's springbreak scheduling schools.
practices. First,-to me, bisecting the semester Furthermore, sch
into two equal halves seems downright logical. spring break seasor
Having a weeklong hiatus in between two sev- that traveling is con
en-week sections of school seems pretty ideal. dents and their fami
Also, because the University's winter break ness substantial rate
is relatively short compared to many other times, of and traditio
schools, and Thanksgiving break is nearly non- included.
existent, it's nice to have a break with no other
commitments. Scheduling spring break dur- Xander Hargraves
ing, say, Easter would most likely have certain LSA senior

for many students, making
with old friends and mak-
some kind of inter-school
well, all schools schedule
atly, and there is no way
schedule spring break to
han just a handful of other
eduling the break before
n is in full swing means
siderably cheaper for stu-
lies. Any destinations wit-
hikes during peak season
'nal spring break times are

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
JANE COASTON W T
MSA needs to be worth our money

4

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus,
the Daily would like students to voice their opinions
on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.
JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
-.
10
\ ,f *
,es i

It's been a tough few weeks for the Michigan Student
Assembly. From the Gaza resolution debacle to the hub-
bub over party structure, it's clear that whatever MSA is
doing isn't working. Though we at the Michigan Review
generally choose to completely ignore MSA, I think it's
time to step in and give my thoughts on the matter.
The problem is that MSA, for whatever reason, thinks
that the student body cares about what it does. But look
at the facts - fewer than ten percent of the student body
votes in MSA elections. Granted, that's our fault. This
lack of voter turnout means the tiny group of people who
are actually interested in sitting in MSA chambers and
voting on whether or not to have a Homecoming parade
basically elect themselves. But let's be honest here: just
because we don't care about who's elected doesn't mean
that we aren't ticked off by the rampant disregard for
actual student issues. There are a multitude of concerns
that MSA might attempt to answer, from the mundane -
why does it take the length of the third Godfather movie
to catch a Michigan bus on a weekend? - to the vital -
how much does this University expect my family to pay
for tuition? But apparently, MSA's time is better spent
organizing events (that no one attends) and issuing state-
ments on world affairs (because Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert obviously cares what MSA thinks). So here's
what its new plan should be: do its job.
The true purpose of the student government is to bring
the concerns of students to the administrative wing of the
University. In the era of the "research university" this
means reminding those who hold the Uniyersity's purse
strings who they're really here to serve: students. During
an economic downturn, the University must realize that
without providing greater help to the students, it will lose
its only paying customers. MSA should push the Univer-
sity to allocate funding for projects that benefit as many
undergraduate and graduate students as possible. Here's
a hint: maybe tearing down buildings and then building
new buildings in the exact same place isn't the best idea.

MSA needs to be a steward of student funds. Every
year, we give MSA about eight dollars. Does anyone
know where it goes? Nope. Think of how much money
that is: eight dollars for 26,000 undergraduates comes
out to about $208,000. One would think MSA's website
would have a great list of things that it does for students,
considering the large amount of money it gets from the
students. But their website's most recent project is from
2004, affectionately labeled "this year." Yes, they provide
funding for student organizations, but let's not forget
the Ludacris debacle from 2005 (we wonder where that
$20,000 went). We need the money to go to things useful
for students - an updated website, buses to the airport,
book lists and prices from professors and a meal plan that
makes sense.
Ideological bias in MSA's practices needs to be reduced.
Going to Michigan doesn't imply that you've signed on to
any ideological or political platform. There's no liberal lit-
mus test to go here. So MSA should remember that as our
representativebody, it represents all Michigan students, not
just the ones with which it agrees. MSA should think twice
about who it invites to campus and the events it sponsors.
MSA representatives should carefully consider why
they even do it. Why did they run? Is ita kick-ass addition
to a resuma? A fantastic supplement to a graduate school
application?. That's completely understandable. But now 4
you are all elected officials, and it's time to stop thinking
about your personal futures. It sounds cool that you can
put that Divest from Whomever petition you co-wrote
on your JP Morgan Chase internship form, but it does
absolutely nothing for Michigan students who can barely
afford to take classes.
I know we probably don't notice the positive things
MSA has accomplished, but we also believe that MSA's
job is to stay out of the news for the wrong reasons. So go 4
get things done.
Jane Coaston is an LSA senior.

/1 $ A.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 2, 2009- 5A

Bickering and bonding
in front of the tube

Those who argue that families who sit
dazed in front of the television are
distant from one another have clearly
never argued with their friends or parents
about which detour option
would be better on "The
Amazing Race" or whether
that one contestant with
the goofy hair reallyj
deserved to be kicked off
"American Idol."
It's a common stereotype
of "TV families" that they JA
are comprised of couch pota- BLOCK
toes who happen to position
their lumpy, emotionless bodies on the couch at
the same time, stare at a screen for a few hours
and then groggily walk away to separate rooms.
While this family surely exists somewhere, it is
far from my personal experience as a member
of what is undoubtedly a TV family.
Television - like all other forms of art - is
not meant to merely entertain but also to pro-
voke thought and discussion. Far from leav-
ing family members to sit mindlessly in their
own separate pods, a lot of modern television
can lead to real bonding between family and
friends. The topics of conversation can range
from whether or not it's bitchy to bet a dollar
more than someone on "The Price Is Right"
(which it is) to whether the writers of"Heroes"
have finally gotten it right again (which they
haven't). And discussingthese things with
someone can tell you much more than just their
opinions on TV, as long as you each explain
yourself.
Take the "Price Is Right" example. You can
learn someone's moral system - or at least
get a glimpse of it - from how they would
handle one of TV's biggest dilemmas. Do they
believe we have.a moral obligation to give our
competitors a fair chance, or can we use our
privileged position as the last one to bet to
our advantage, even though we did nothing
to earn that spot? The answers here provide
more insight than was clear with the initial,
unexpanded question.
Now, some people may think that I'm read-
ing too much into this. But the fact that, when
faced with a current high bet of $900, some
will bet $901 and others will bet $950 is proof
that people show their true colors under the
pressure of Contestant's Row.
The "Heroes" example is less philosophical,
but perhaps a bit more practical, since it caters
more to questions of taste. Choosing whether
or not you like this season of "Heroes" - or any
other show, really - is based on whether yout

like the riddles that come with mind games
and deception, the action and gunfire of epic
battles, the humor of a few good jokes or any
other aspect of television programming. These
choices can say a lot about someone's personal-
ity. I'm not saying all people who like action
or mind games are the same; I'm merely say-
ing that once you've talked a lot with someone
about a lot of TV - even the trashiest stuff -
you can get a pretty good idea of what they like
and what they don't.
Now obviously some TV shows spark bet-
ter conversation than others. Saying why "The
Bachelor" is a bad show takes about two sec-
onds, even if you delve into detail, and once
you're done there's really nothing else to say.
And it's not just the trash that makes for less
than ideal conversation. There are shows like
"House" - great entertainmentbut hard to dis-
cuss in terms of plot, justbecause most people
don't know how to diagnose lupus or some
strange fever the patient contracted while pet-
ting a snake overseas.
But then there are shows like my constant
source of inspiration, "Lost." Whenever I call
home, there's always at least 10 minutes of
conversation set aside for evaluating the show's
latest episode - 20 minutes if my dad stayed
Couch potatoes can
still wax philosophical.
awake through it. (Important note: He does not
fall asleep because it's a bad show, but because
it's on late and he watches it on a very comfort-
able couch.) The best shows for bonding are
those that make you ask a lot of questions, and
no show is more full of mystery than "Lost."
Butbefore I get caught up praising "Lost"
again, let me leave you with some advice. Next
time you tune in with your friends or fam-
ily, turn down the volume for those annoy-
ing Nasonex ads with the French allergenic
bee and talk about what you're seeing, why
it's good, why'it sucks or anything else that it
sparks in your mind. Television by no means
has to turn you and your friends into isolated
vegetables. Besides, at the rate commercial
breaks are lengthening, these could be some of
your longest - and perhaps most interesting -
conversations to date.

"Man. This is almost as awesome as that time I saved the world."

Empty 'Horizon'

Despite the input of
producer Brian Eno,
U2's newest record is a
middling affair
By RHIANNON HALLER
Daily Arts Writer
Brian Eno's influence on No Line on
the Horizon is marked. Not only did he
produce the album,
but he also took part
in the songwrit-
ing process, which
explains why the U2
majority of the songs No Line on
are atmospheric the Horizon
numbers lacking the Interscope
hard rock punch U2
is famous for deliv-
ering. But the record is still distinctly
U2 - as soon as Bono starts singing,
there's no way anybody even somewhat
familiar with the Irish lads' previous
releases could mistake them for anyone
else. Unfortunately, this combination
of Eno-flavored, airy understatement
and Bono's overpowering vocals fails
to mix well.
The album opens with the dis-
appointing title track, an echoing
synthesizer-led number quickly
drowned by Bono's vocals. He
howls "oh" and "woah" through-
out the song, sounding like a
whiny dog. It's an odd mix of min-
imalism and overcrowding - a
puzzle whose pieces are individu-
ally intriguing but don't quite fit
together.
"Magnificent" follows, starting
off with an evil, heavily-distorted
 guitar and dance-poppy synthe-
sizer. Drummer Larry Mullen adds
a good deal of the danceability to
the track, tapping a tambourine
and hitting the drums in a clap-
your-hands fashion. The track is
more typical U2, and would prob-
ably suit a music video where Bono
LIKE
DANCE?
THEATER?
POETRY?
Write for our Fine Arts staff.
 E-mail battlebots@umich.edu.

stands in the middle of an expansive
canyon lifting his arms up to the sky
and belting out the lyrics.
One of the strongest tracks on the
album (and starkest departures from
U2's trademark sound) is "Moment
of Surrender." Beginning with a very
basic, almost-groovy drumbeat, the
song maintains a relaxing, airy ambi-
ance throughout. A keyboard'reminis-
cent of a dilapidated organ buried in a
stained-glass church plays in the back-
ground, accompanied by understated
strings. Here, Bono almost sounds like
a gospel singer taking an extended
solo. Lyrics like "Playing with the fire
until the fire played with me," along
with a choir-backed chorus, solidify
the feeling.
"White As Snow," a blatant (but
acknowledged) rip-off of the tradition-
al Christmas carol "O Come, O Come,
Emmanuel" is, if nothing else, interest-
ing. Carried by soft plinking on piano
keys and the plucking of an acoustic
guitar, it's almost a folk song. Even the
track's lyrics lend a folky feel, as Bono
sings about such down-to-earth topics
as the land and family rather than his
usual sweeping generalizations.
The album closes with "Cedars of

Lebanon," another distinct b
U2's typical style. It feats
instrumentation and a dru
beat, conjuring images of lon
missing their homes and
Towards the end of the tr
asks, "Where are you'in the
Lebanon?," wrapping up
the ballad of a soldier walk-
ing through the cold, misty
woods - hands in his pock-
ets, eyes fixed on the pine-
needle-covered ground,
mind pondering love lost.
While it's clear that
No Line on the Horizon is
different from U2's best
albums, it's still a letdown.
The band, along with pro-
ducers Brian Eno and Dan-
iel Lanois, toted the record
as something of a revolu-
tion in a jewel case, boost-
ing the expectations of fans
and critics by claiming it
was one oftheirbest releas-
es yet. It's not. It's not terri-
ble either, but U2 definitely
would have been better off
had they let their music do
the hyping instead.

reak from
ares quiet
mmer-boy
ely troops
families.
ack, Bono
cedars of

-Block subscribes to the Chuck
Woolery school of thought. Tell him why
Lingo sucks at jamblock@umich.edu.


4

i,


6A-Monday, March 2, 2009.
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

parking
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today.. .734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
fOr reit
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, 4landry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break and get these new rates.
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Direct with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
1 BDRM. & EFE.APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.

WilsonWhite
N AGEMENT


PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
greenspace, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious f 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.

We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com

j

U

I

University
Tower
m

***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter ml. Prkg. avail. Coin dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Internet!
$400 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
Don't miss out on the Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long,.when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.

4 BDRM APT. avail, fall '09. 2 prkg APARTMENTSAVAIL2009-10.
spaces avail. on-site indry. $2450 + Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedrooms!
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996- Fuished, heat & water included,
1991 or visit cappoiaanageinenl.com FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call-today for an appoinitment to see!
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2280; Prime Student Housing
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103. 761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com- AVAIL IMMEDIATELY-FLEXI-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo. BLE leases, furnished or unfurmished.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aolcom Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrn. apt. w/
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur- security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath- arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and Co. 734-368-0256.
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available. AVAILABLE FALL.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage- Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
ment.734-995-9200 floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
www.wilsonwlnitemanagement.com blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
Huge multi-use parking area for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
Packard at Greenwood 5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
May to May $3400 717-2935
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
Bdrm. Units prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quie &ecr' Fgh -onsct mmxamp ( i'9 FALL AVAILABILITYt FUR-
c B T' NISHED five bedroom house located
734-663-1530 near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard. CRB, University Hospital, and all
6 BDM. HUSEmistoffPackrd. Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 fill doorstep. Unique attic space and large
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun- front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter- Kitchen highlights include a dish-
net. $2800/mo. 734-320-1026. washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard. 734-662-5500 or
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full www.michcomrealty.com for details.
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun- EHO.
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $2800/mo. 734-320-1026. FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrm. House
$2400!!! On Central Campus, 3 bath,
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3 Furn., free Idry, prkg, 734-786-0249.
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991..
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3595 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09 Includes heat, water, and parking
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses, 3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web- Now Leasing Fall 2009
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368. Call Today for our SpeCial


CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedroom -
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry mel. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water nel. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
rments Availabe!

iel. Balc., A/C, prkg., dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$788-$949/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213.
MAY LEASESAVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$400 signing bonus on all 2 bedrooms
+ free internet
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
eecl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
t Bedrooms:
520 Packard.
515 E. Lawrence
326E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 SUniversity
411 High
819 Brown
*FullyFurnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
(* At meat locatin)
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.
the
0uwred d
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
WWw.anniiarborapartmenta.Bet
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

RELEASE DATE- Monday, March 2, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Snoopy, notably 38 Always, in verse 51 1970s-80s
1 Fallback option 6 Remove from the 40 London gallery Bond portrayer
6 "Odyssey" magazine, as 43 "Le Misanthrope" Roger
enchantress coupons playwright 55 Buzzi of
11 Sun. church talk 7 Monstrous 45 Violist's need "Laugh-In"
14 Salonilob 8 Falling-out 46 Bachelor pad 56Tense, after
15 The Teamsters, 9 Undersea amenity "on"
e.g. explorer 47Good's opposite 57 "Not a _ out of
16 Chopping tool Jacques 48 Interior designs you!": "Shh!"
17 Yellowstone 10 Big picture?: 49 Manly to the max 58 Throws in
geyser Abbr. 50 Like some 60 A/C measure
19 Prefix with duct 11 Socked away college walls 61 Stable staple
20 Lad 12 Cast out of one's
21 Fillingsubetween country ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
tiles 13 King's domain
22 Williamthe 18Showy bloom O H M S L A W O O M P H
archer 22 Big bang initials N E O L I T H S ARC A R O
23Hipbonesection 23"_.neverwork!" C A D I L L A C S I T C O M
24 Two-seated 25 Debate side A N I M A T R A I N A TIE
bicycle 26 Somber film L E N S C OA L S P R O P
26 It begins with the . genre L Y E H A F T S C R O C E
Gospels 27 Marina fliarIONIC KRONOR
30 Taken by mouth 28 Drfthrugh the F I NW I C K RN A N I R
31 Spiffy air, asudoms INAPE T H
32 W hatonSch. 29Cameanross I NA P E T P R E S S
degree 32 Series opener? STYES A L O E S P S S
35 Kindle, as 33Thrivingtime T E A L F R A N S S O P H
passions 34 Frankor Francis P R S T O K Y O S A T I E
39Collegepayment 36Comumo atn U N I S E X ER I C aBA N A
41tOn Soc.Sec. 37 Turning water M A DM A X IET A I L E R
42 Carpe _: seize into wine, and P L E A S S O N N E T S
thegday others xwordeditor@aol.com 03/02/9
44 efore hng-In
Shakespeare 1 2 a a a a a a 10 11 12 13
45 Daredevils may an4an5a1
live on it
49 Brunch cocktail 17 1as 19
52 Bankthat deters
fluoding 2a 2
53 Conessopenly
54 Movie reviewer "3"a 2
56 Clean air org. 26 27 2 29
8AFL parrter
60 Aistcratic 3a 3a an an an
62 The other woman
63 Half ofocta- 35 36 37 38 39 40
64 Blew a gasket, so a a m
to speak
65 Emotional verse 4 46 47 48
66 Seat finder
67 Staircase units an naa
DOWN 554 55 56 s7 58
1 Dilemma, briefly se 61
2 Stitch's adopter,
in a Disney flm 62 6
3"Raggedy fellw an67
4 Bounced-check
letnert By ElizabethBabikan
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Partially 1 Ornishcd, parking
and La ndry.
Leases for May and
Septeniber
Voted 41 by Michigan Daily,
Readers
ooi . 734-111-5i120

I 34-62-4446 .
sso~naproperties coWm

tWilsonWhite
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNITY
Upscale 5 bedroom
zatrtmeni uts @( 6113
Church! nare
newiq)constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, wif/ i
, a ms s e , ucr a r t n n
lner :tu

Deadinefor Iin
Rates: $4.301
additional cons
contact our sta
ads are placed
business ads o
have been est
Discover, cash
of our Account
2 lines 8.6
3 lines 12.
4 lines 17.
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only
TMD for failure to publ
shall be-lmited to publ
will be responsble for 
Rates: All changes sh
consecutive rate if re
Advertisers may cano
been pubished Refu
resale of tickets attmo
accepting advertising.

e ads is 11:30am one business day prior topublication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
per line for thefirst issue and $2.15 perline for each 020 - For Sale
ecutive issue. Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
ff for details * Students may receivea 25% discount when 030-Automotive
in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040-Cosputers
nly) * All ads must be prepad unless prior blling privileges
ablished 9 We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
, or check * For Classified Display advertising, please call one 050 -Furniture
Executves060 - For Rent
070 - Subet
day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
0- 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Heap Wanted
90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51,60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 -Arrour emens,
standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wl be accepted. Misprints: The liabilty of
ish an advertisement for any reason, or for pubrshing incorrect ads in a specified sue 123 - Websites
ishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD. 125- MusC
classified advetsetro so nlyrf nottob by 5a00 pm on the first day of publcation.
own on the open rates lines are consecutive insertions An ad may be extended at a 130 - Roommates
uested and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
el an ad before publication deadlne, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
sal: All ads are subject to editing and approval, We do not publish advertisements for 150 - Personal
re than face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to 160-Pets

All line ads are plQced in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

i

l


ip The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

T i a l c a yMonday, March 2, 2009 - 7A

Rare snowstorm blasts East Coast 'U' lands LGBT

Storm could drop
more than a foot of
snow in New York
and New England
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) - A
potent March snowstorm blan-
keted much of the Southeast with
snow yesterday before barreling
toward the Northeast, where offi-
cials prepared .snowplows and
road-salt for a wintery assault.
The icy blast threatened to drop
up to a foot of snow in the Philadel-
phia area, 13 inches in New York
and 15 inches across southern New
England late Sunday.
Thousands of New York City
sanitation workers prepared to salt
city streets, and airlines preemp-
tively canceled flights Sunday at
the region's major airports.
The Pennsylvania Department
of Transportation planned to
attack the snow in the Philadelphia
area with 400 trucks and 77,000
tons of stockpiled salt, assistant
press secretary Gene Blaum said.
In Georgia, the snowfall ren-
dered roads treacherous and
delayed flights, while in Alabama,
more than 210 churches in the cen-
tral part of the Bible Belt state had
to cancel morning services.
Vonda Braswell of Alabaster,

Ala. was throwingwsnswblls inher
front yard instead of putting on her
Sunday best. "I think you can wor-
ship in this it's so rare," she said.
Up to 7 inches of snow was
expected through Monday morn-
ing in areas of Maryland, north-
ern. Virginia and Washington,
D.C., where Mayor Adrian Fenty
declared a snow emergency.
In Virginia, nearly 10,000 cus-
tomers of two power companies
lost electric power Sunday night
after the storm blew in.
Maryland has already spent
more than $40 million respond-
ing to pad weather in what's been
a colder-than-usual winter, Gov.
Martin O'Malley said Sunday. Any
money spent on digging out from
the rare March storm will further
burden a state that's facinga $2 bil-
lion budget shortfall.
"I don't like snow," O'Malley
said.
In New York, Mayor Michael
Bloomberg announced more than
1,300 sanitation workers stood
ready to spread salt and plow
streets.
"It's the first of March, which
as you know is the month that we
say comes in like a lion and out like
a lamb," he said. "It's pretty clear
that the lions are getting ready to
roar."
As Wayne Letson drove through
Alabama toward Florida on Sun-


conference in 2011

JOEY IVANSCO/AP
Todd Warren walks to his car in the snow that hit Atlanta on Sunday.
day, the Michigan resident fret- winter weather. The last time it
ted about sharing the roads with snowed in Alabama was more than
Southerners unaccustomed to a year ago, in January 2008.

Despite stimulus spending, states money
problems could last beyond the recession

From Page1A
community wants to talk about the
interconnectedness of systems of
oppression. The theme of the 2011
conference will be "Justice or Just
Us."
"We will be talking about people
at the intersection of their identi-
ties as LGBT and something else,
as a person of color, as a person of
limited ability, as a person who's
an international student," he said.
"We're looking to really ramp the
conversation up."
In an .effort to create this dia-
logue between identities, organiz-
ers hope to include the University's
LGBT scholars and other Univer-
sity groups like the Program on
Intergroup Relations and the Gins-
berg Center.
Though the conference aims to
create a network of LGBT students
in the Midwest, the conference's
organizers stress that everyone is
encouraged to attend.
"We're going to try to push to get
as many U of M students there as
possible to really show as much sup-
port for the conference as possible,"
said LSA sophomore Chris Arm-
strong, co-chair of the Michigan
Student Assembly's LGBT Commis-
sion, who is helping to organize the
conference. "We're going to try to
make it as accessible to all different
types of people who are interested
ins LGBT issues."
Javier said he thinks the Univer-
sity has the resources to hold a con-
ference that varies positively from,
WISHLIST
From Page 1A
The remaining projects that
Greden highly prioritized include
the weatherization of low-income
housing, phase two of the upgrade
of the Ann Arbor Municipal Center,
phase two of the Fifth Street and
Division Street greening project
and a project to convert all of the
city's street lights to LED lights.
Greden believes that the city has
a decent chance of being funded for
phase two of the Fifth andDivision
Street project, a $3 million project
to add bike lanes and LED street
lights to the area and re-brick the
roads in Kerrytown.
However, Greden was not as con-
fident about the other three proj-
ects' chances.
Although Greden said the city's
low-income housing desperate-
ly needs better insulation to cut
down on utility bills, other Michi-
gan communities have low income
housing that is considered worse

State officials,
economists warn
federal aid won't fix
tax shortfalls
(AP) - Even after $135 billion
in federal aid gets spent, many
states will be staring down bud-
getary black holes unless they ini-
tiate dramatic spending cuts or tax
increases, or both.
In the short-term, the massive
stimulus will help balance bud-
gets and keep key services, such as
Medicaid, going. But economists
agree the money will not quickly

eradicate high unemployment, low
consumer spending or distress in
the housing market. - the triple
threats behind a nationwide tax-
collection shortfall thatis expected
to drag on even after the economy
begins to rebound.
Without higher taxes, bigger
cuts to government services - or
yet more federal funding - states
face budget gaps that could reach
$120 billion nationwide in their
2011 budgets, according to an ana-
lyst at the Rockefeller Institute, a
think tank in Albany, N.Y. James
Diffley, managing director of Glob-
al Insight's U.S. Regional Services
Group, says it's unlikely budget
gaps will close before 2013.

"States' budget problems lag the
economy," Diffley said. "What we
see in budgets will get worse for at
least another year."
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
Bernanke last week told Congress
that the recession might end this
year if the government is able to
prop up the shaky banking system.
States simply are not taking in
enough money to cover expenses
that are rising with the recession.
So far, neither the spending cuts
nor the tax and fee increases being
discussed appear large enough to
address the impending revenue
shortfall, economists said.
Spending increases were easier
to cover in flush times earlier this

decade, whentax collectionsjumped
40 percent over five years. Then
the bubble burst. Inflated housing
wealth collapsed, consumers hun-
kered down,businesses slashed jobs
and tax collections plunged. '
Sales and income taxes can pro-
vide around two-thirds of tax rev-
enue. Other revenue streams, like
the real estate fund transfer tax,
continue to take hits, too, as the
housing marketscrapes bottom.
States' combined deficits have
'already climbed to around $50 bil-
lion in their 2009 budgets and are
expected to grow in the following
budget cycle, leaving governors
and lawmakers with more painful
choices.

I

CONTRACT
From Page 1A
reason the University chose not to
renew the contract.
"The committee found that the
company had not respected the
employees' right to association and

had not adhered to the company's
own standards of conduct," she
wrote in an e-mail. "TheUniversi-
ty decided not to renew the Russell
license based on the advisory com-
mittee's recommendation."
At the tims, Russell Corp. denied
allegations that it closed its Hon-
duras plants because workers tried

to unionize. The company said it
was forced to close the facilities
because of economic consider-
ations, not because of employee's
efforts to unionize.
The New York Times reported on
Feb. 24 that officials from Russell
Corp. issued a report addressing the,
workers' rights concerns in which

they wrote: "We acknowledge that
management mistakes were made
that led to a failure to adhere" to
"standards on freedom of associa-
tion." The Associated Press reported
that, among others, Columbia, Cor-
nell, Georgetown, Purdue, Rutgers
and Wisconsin have all announced
they will also cut ties with Russell.

past ones.
"I really think that the energy
and the community surrounding
the LGBTQ and ally community
here is unparalleled," he said. "I
strongly feel like our community
communicates really well with
each other, that we have a great
set of allies all across the Uni-
versity that can really make the
conference feel so much more dif-
ferent."
Although the conference is two
years away, organizers are already
in the beginning stages of plan-
ning.
"2011 seems like so far away, but
we have to get the jump on planning
something really great," Sean Col-
lins, an LSA sophomore who helped
with the University's bid said in a
press release.
The February 2011 conference
in Ann Arbor will coincide with
the 40th anniversary of the Spec-
trum Center, which organizers say
makes holding the conference even
more exciting.
"It definitely does make it a lot
more special, and we're going to
really push the importance of the
Spectrum Center," Armstrong said.
"We're definitely going to adver-
tise and sort of show off how great
Michigan is with LGBT issues."
Some past speakers at the con-
ference include comedian Marga-
ret Cho, activist Angela Davis and
openly gay Iraq war veteran Eric
Alva.
The 2010 conference will be held
next Feruary at the University of
Wisconsin at Madison.
off. Greden believes this will likely
be funded first.
Andeventhoughthecity'sdesign
to "re-skin" the municipal build-
ing would make it more energy
efficient, Greden said he feels that
its $12 million price tag will be too
high to receive funding.
Finally, Greden said that he was
unsure as to whether the city's esti-
mated $3.8milllionprojecttoconvert
all streetlights to LED lights would
be fundedby the stimulus package.
Greden believes that the city will
eventually follow through with its
Fifth and Division St. and LED light
projects, even if they're not funded
by the stimulus package, because
they would make the city more
environmentally friendly would
save money.
Because the governor's office
hasn't finished writing the funding
package's regulations for the state
and local levels, city officials aren't
exactly sure how and when Ann
Arbor will see the funds.
City officials do know, however,
that the money granted to the city
will only go to designated projects.
BUSES
From Page lA
time to help him and his friends
access the information more read-
ily.
He realized, however, that
Magic Bus lacked a way to access
its information from the street,
where Wolchok said it would be
most useful.
Wolchok said he already had
most of the work done in the form
of.coding he used for his previous
applications.
"I had this code sitting around,"
he said, "and itoccurred to me that
I could do it in a couple hours."
Since he launched the service,

Wolchok has been testing it; tin-
kering with the code and gather-
ing feedback from friends. As of
Saturday, he said, only about 20
unique users had used the pro-
gram, but now he thinks it's ready
for more traffic.
According to Wolchok, what
makes UmBus really useful is that
it's available to any text message-
enabled cell phone, not just those
with Internet access.
On the Magic Bus website,
"technically inclined" users are
encouraged to find new ways of
taking advantage of the technol-
ogy.
AOSS and EECS Prof. Chris
Ruf, who oversaw the Magic Bus
project, said Wolchok's service
certainly wasn't the first of its
kind.
"A bunch of those type of appli-
cations have been developed
by students during, the last few
years," he said.
"We haven't decided whether
to make them available to people
or have some kind of repository
where we could put these appli-
cations people have developed
and then other people could use
them," he said. "The problem is
we haven't developed them, so we
aren't doing any quality control
on them."
A guide to the SMSBus com-
mands can be found at mbusre-
loaded.com/smshelp.

t the michigan daily
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, updated, w/ REM(
prkg., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825. Leather
OLD TOWN REALTY Free In
612 Church St. One
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009 TIRED C
All Prices Reduced!!
apartment
8 Bedroom House Managem
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400 with hun
houses on
7 Bedroom Houses agents are
408 B. Jefferson $3,850 place to
1220 Prospect $3,850 Wwwhils
334 Catherine $3,850 www.wils
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,800
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses I
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060 FREE S
624 Church $2,995 hedrob
fr
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store wino
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
OPPENHEIMER PROPERTIES
still has houses and large apts. for rent
for Fall '09. Offering $500-$1000 sign-0
ing bonus for available properties!
4 Bedroom
816 Brookwood. $2700 + util. THESIS
1803 Hill St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. incl. organizatr
506 W Williams. 2 bath. $2100 + util. 996-05
5 Bedroom
401 Lawrence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2 help w
bath. $2875 + electric.
401 Lawrence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2950 + gas and electric.
6 Bedrgom 090
416 Hamilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
$3500 + util. EARN E:
126 Hill St. 2 hulh. $3100 + util. needed AS
 1803 Hill St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath. eing a
All util. paid. May Lease. $3300 ence requi
203 Koch. 2 bath. $2450 + util.
Please Contact 734-995-5575 or SCOREK
www.oppenheimerproperties.com GRILL
WWW.800FULLER.COM hardworki
(734) 769-7520 and kitch
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet exp. necer
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus Maynard,
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs QUIT SM
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all personaliz
lo- study
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty visits in
734-662-5500 or 734.232.0'

ODELED 2 BEDROOMS
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Furniture and Glass Tables,
nternet and Heat & Water,
Parking Space included!
Hurry ....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
OF SEARCHING for your
or house? Wilson White
ent offers One Stop Shopping
dreds of apartments and
Central Campus. Our leasing
eready to help you the perfect
all home on campus. Wilson
Management 734-995-9200
cnnx - - - - - om ntrn

UBLET FINDER. studio-3
ims; 19 locations to choose
rom. (734) 741-9300

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
CASHIERS AND SERVERS needed.
Full or part time. Evening shifts avail-
able. Apply in person after 6pm at
Quickie Burger. 800 S. State St.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www .cashtospend.com
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:
Make a difference in the life of a child!
Summer therapy camp for children
with physical disabilities. Located on
shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI.
Positions available for Couselors,
Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts
& Crafts/ Recreation, Nurses, Thera-
pists, Food Service, and Auxiliary.
Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and
love children. June 14 through Augunt
9: Salary, room & hoard, and experi-
ence of a lifetime provided. Call or
write for application and information.
Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O Box 310
Big Bay, MI 49808, (906)-345-9414,
e-mail BaycliffHC@aol.com. Visit us
at www.baycliff.org
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, honus, and discounted meats avail-
ahle. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
personal
150
COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION
Loving couple wishing to adopt an
infant. Willing to pay legal and medical
expenses. 1-800-488-3038
christinrandtimadoption@gmail.com

For Tuesday, March 3, 2009 materials to do a decent job. Get rid of
ARIES clutter.
(March 21 to April 19) SCORPIO
Continue to work behind the scenes or (Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
work alone. Stay under the radar. Get Romance, love atTairs, playful times
extra rest if you can. Now is the time to with children, vacations and anything
prepare for your new year, which will having to do with the arts and entertain-
begin with your birthday. ment world will delight you during the
TAURUS next few weeks. You want to play!
(April 20to May 20) SAGITTARIUS
It's a popular time for you! Enjoy (Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
schmoozing with others. Join clubs, Focus on home, family and domestic
groups and organizations. Discuss your issues now. It's a good time to start to
dreams and goals for the future with oth- plan home repairs.
ers to hear what they have to say. CAPRICORN,
GEMINI (Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
(May 21to June 20) Short trips, discussions with neigh-
The Sun at high noon in your chart bors, relatives and siblings plus
now acts'like a spotlight on you. This is increased reading, writing and studying
why bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs keep you busy! Just accept this busy,
notice you more than usual. (This also upbeat tempo.
includes the police.) AQUARIUS
CANCER (Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
(June 21to July 22) You're full of moneymaking ideas.
In the next week or so, try to do sote- Some of you are thinking about ways to
thing different. Go someplace you've make money on the side or to change
never been to before. Seek out adven- jobs.
ture. Learn something new. You need a PISCES
change of scenery! (Feb. 19 to March 20)
LEO Do what you want to please yourself
(July 23 to Aug. 22) because this is your turn to recharge your
Take care of bills, taxes and debt. Just batteries for the rest of the year. It's
because you like to spend money doesn't entirely OK if yoU putyourself first now.
mean you can't stay out of debt. YOU BORN TODAY You know what
VIRGO you want and you go after it. Plus, you
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22) do your homework and you're prepared.
Partners and close friends continue to You have a wonderful imagination, and
be the major focus. This is your chance once you have your vision intact, you
to learn more about how you relate to work steadily toward achieving it. You
others. Make the most of this opportu- often work behind the scenes because
oity. you value your privacy. Your year ahead
LIBRA might be one of the nost powerful years
(Sept. 23 to-Oct. 22) of your life. Dream big!
Because you're gung-ho to get better Birthdate of: Alexander Graham Bell,
organized in your life, do something inventor; Tyler Florence, TV chef; Julie
about this. Give yourself the tools and Bowen, actress. ,
"tur

i t
EXTRA MONEY. Students
iSAP. Earn up $150 pee day
mysteryashopper. No experi-
red. Call 1-800-722-4791.
EEPER'S SPORTS
& Pub now hiring talented,
ng individuals for our wait
en staff, and floorman. No
ssary. Apply in person at 310
Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
WOKING! $100, patches, &
ed intervention. Make 3
cluding a brain scan.
705.

y 2009 King Features Syndicate. Inc.


4 A _A


8A - Monday, March 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

4

.4

I

4

Earn your degree faster by taking summer classes at
OAKLAND UNIVERSITY

4

4

If you're spending the summer in the Metro Detroit area, keep moving
toward graduation as a guest student at Oakland University.
You can choose from 1,000 diverse courses in several convenient sessions -
courses that can transfer to your home institution. Check the Michigan Transfer Network
to learn what courses will transfer at wwwmichigantransfernetwork.org.
Registration begins March 16. Free applications for guest students are available
online at www.oakland.edu/guest.
At OU, you'll find the total college experience - with challenging academics,
Division I athletics and hundreds of student orgs - all for a great value. You'll quickly
see how OU makes an exceptional education available at a truly affordable price.
And remember, at OU, students don't pay any fees. So when you need
transcripts sent to your home institution, you won't pay a thingl

Oakland offers 129 undergraduate degree programs in:
" Arts and Sciences
- Business Administration
- Education and Human Services
" Engineering and Computer Science
" Health Sciences
- Nursing
Important summer dates:
. Summer full session: May 4 - August 15
" Summer I session: May 4 - June 20
. Summer 11 session: June 29 - August 15

4

4

4

A

i


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I March 2, 2009

r

Fn
Freshman guard Zack Novak and the Wolverines were outsized and outhustled by a more physical Wisconsin team yesterday. The Badgers won 60-55 in Madison.

Small size won't hurt Comeback attempt
Blue next week falls short in loss

MADISON -
xamining the starting line-
ups in the Michigan men's
basketball team's 60-55
loss to Wisconsin, there was a
clear'size disadvantage:
The Badgers' 6-foot-10 Jon
Leuer on the
} Wolverines'
6-foot-5 Zack
Novak.
Wisconsin's
6-foot-7 Joe
Krabbenhoft
on Michigan's
6-foot-5 Manny
Harris.
In total, the RUTH
Badger start- LINCOLN
ers outsized
Michigan's
leading five-man corps by four
inches - with length and muscle
to spare.
The Wolverines have faced big
teams before, and they know they
must find other ways to score.

Michigan got into a rhythm
early and headed into halftime
with a 34-32 lead. The Wolverines
quickly moved the ball to find
open teammates and hit 3-point-
ers.
But Wisconsin kept up its game,
plan and finished with 34 points
in the paint. Marcus Landry and
Leuer shot a combined 11-of-18,
and Krabbenhoft grabbed 11
rebounds.
The Badgers made it look too
easy.
"You want to compete with
them, but it is tough during the
season to gain 20 pounds," Michi-
gan coach John Beilein said. "It's
like arm wrestling. It's just like
guys who are stronger than you,
and you can't do that much about
it in one season."
Michigan couldn't do much
about its size yesterday, but it's
now more prepared for what lies
ahead.
With just one regular season

game left - Saturday at Min-
nesota - the Wolverines' NCAA
Tournament resume still requires
some polishing.
Yesterday's loss might have
crushed Michigan's hopes to
secure an at-large bid to the
NCAA Tournament. But next
week's game against Minnesota
at Williams Arena is crucial for
Michigan's eventual postseason
destination.
And the Wolverines are in good
shape to make the most of the
opportunity.
The Badgers have never lost a'
home game to an unranked Big
Ten opponent under Wisconsin
coach Bo Ryan.
They're 47-0 in that category.
It would have taken Michigan's
most valiant effort to pull off the
upset.
And in a hostile environment,
the Wolverines came pretty
close.
See LINCOLN, Page 3B

Slow start and lack
of communication
doom upset bid
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
MADISON - With 30 seconds
left in regulation and his team
down four points against Wiscon-
sin, Michigan men's basketball
junior DeShawn Sims launched a
3-pointer from the top of the key.
The forward made one from the
same spot at Crisler Arena late in
Thursday's game when Michigan
upset then-No. 16 Purdue.
But Sims's shot clanked off the
rim, all but sealing the Wolverines'
60-55 loss yesterday at the Kohl
Center.
And the attempt wasn't exactly
what Michigan coach John Beilein
had hoped for.

"Once (Sims) catches it, he's
actually been very successful to get
a guy coming off for a shot," Beil-
ein said. "I was saying 'patience'
to him in his ear. He thought I was
saying 'take it.' So, I've got to use a
different word than patience."
That kind of miscommunication
was common all afternoon.
Wisconsin (9-7 Big Ten, 18-10
overall) and Michigan (8-9, 18-12)
both entered the game teetering
on the NCAA Tournament bubble.
The Badgers now have an edge, and
the Wolverines have just one regu-
lar-season game left to boost their
resum6, Saturday at Minnesota.
Despite all of Michigan's mis-
takes, the team came close to
squeaking out the win.
"We had some lapses on execu-
tion, with getting offensive boards,
but we were right there," said fifth-
year senior guard C.J. Lee, who
finished with nine points, three
rebounds and four assists. We've

just got to make that play, get that
rebound, get that stop. We haven't
been able to get that play on the
road right now."
Just like when the two teams
met in a 73-61 Wisconsin win Dec.
31 at Crisler Arena, the Badgers
jumped to a quick start, scoring on
nine of their first 10 possessions.
The Wolverines edged their way
back, hitting five 3-pointers in the.
first half.
Michigan led 34-32 at the half
but fell to another Badger run at
the start of the second half and
never fully recovered.
Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan's
teams grind opposing defenses
down with slow, meticulous bas-
ketball, often shooting with single
digits left on the shot clock.
"When you get down to one of
Bo's teams, being down by five or
seven is like being down by 15 to
other teams," Beilein said.
See BADGERS, Page 3B

~MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING
Mitera and Sauer return, pave n
way for Senior Night victory to 34th program
Senior duo shines 14 shots he faced. It was just his
... ... ~~~third start ince s qnho mre ran c n e e c i l


after final season
didn't go as planned
By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
BIG RAPIDS - While Satur-
day's Senior Night was dedicated
to the six graduating members of
the No. 3 Michigan hockey team,
the attention centered around how
two of those players would each
finish the most disappointing sea-
sons of their collegiate careers.
Senior captain Mark Mitera
played in Friday's 6-1 victory at
Ferris State, his first game since
tearing his anterior cruciate liga-
ment in the season opener on Oct.
10. Mitera also chipped in a goal
and an assist, his first points of the
season, in Saturday's 4-0 victory
at Yost Ice Arena.
Senior goaltender Billy Sauer
registered his eighth career shut-
out Saturday in what might have
been his final college game: The
Walworth, N.Y. native stopped all

Hogan became the full-time start-
er in early December.
"It's pretty tough, but I felt
pretty into it," Sauer said, regard-
ing the light workload. "The crowd
was pretty loud, and the puck was
around me enough where I didn't
feel like I wasn't getting any
work."
It was a bizarre and frustrating
senior campaign for bothplayers.
Mitera, a first-round draft pick of
the Anaheim Ducks, delayed his
professional hockey dreams to
return for his final year only to
injure his knee in the first period
of the season.
Mitera's decision to stay came
one year after Kevin Porter
returned for his senior season
despite NHL prospects. Porter
went on to win the Hobey Baker
Award as the nation's top player.
Friday night was the culmina-
tion of a surprisingly successful
rehabilitation process.
After undergoing ACL recon-
structive surgery Nov. 6, Mitera
was given a 3-6 month timetable'

Michigan dominates
meet, winning by
over 300 points
By RYAN A. PODGES
Daily Sports Writer .
When the final team scores
were announced at the Big Ten
swimming and diving champion-
ships Saturday night, no one at the
Purdue Boilermaker Aquatic Cen-
ter was surprised.
After winning the first three
events of the meet, No.4 Michigan
held on to its lead for the entire
three-day event and successfully
defended its Big Ten title, winning
the program's 34th conference
championship.
And none of the scores were
even close.
On February 27, after the first
day of competition, Michigan led
the field of ten teams by over 120

points.After two days, the lead
grew to over 200 points. And at
the end of the meet, the Wolver-
ines were a whopping 308 points
ahead of second-place Ohio State.
The team celebrated on the
swim deck in their new cham-
pionship hats and T-shirts, and
then the party continued in the
pool when the swimmers, coaches
and even the trophy were pushed
into the diving well. As the team
splashed around and sang The
Victors, first-year Michigan coach
Mike Bottom said he floated
around and simply watched his
team enjoy the victory.
"It was fun watching the guys
swim their'best and it was fun to
watch them celebrate," Bottom
said. "We went in with a focus
on getting guys to qualify for the
NCAA championship meet. We
knew if our guys were qualifying,
then we would win the meet, and
we did. The points weren't some-
thing we thought a lot about."
See BIG TENS, Page 4B

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Freshman forward Robbie Czarnik scored the first goal of Saturday's 4-0 win,
for a return to the ice. Just two Mitera said Friday. "I think the
months and three days later, he first couple of shifts were pretty
started to skate again. Mitera shaky. I felt a little. out of place
began practicing full-contact Feb. out there, just to get back to game
17. . speed. But other than that, I felt
"I felt pretty good out there," See BULLDOGS, Page 3B

NOT ON TRACK GOING... GOING...
U The Michigan women's track and field team ' The Michigan baseball team suffered its
stumbled at the Big Ten Indoor Championship, first two losses of the season but rebounded
- A" M' <PA N finishing third. Page 4B. for Maloney's 500th career victory. Page 3B.
Ar:.

1


2B - March 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - March 2, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycam

Senior Nights
need students

W' drops seventh straight

f you're like most students on
this campus, you missed two
Senior Nights in the past few
days.
On Thursday, the Michigan
men's basketball team honored its
three seniors and shocked the Cris-
ler Arena crowd with an upset win
over Purdue. On TV, it didn't look
like more than
100 students
attended the
game.
T wo days
later, the hockey
team's sixr
seniors went
through their NATE
Senior Night SANDALS ^
festivities.
A few stu-
dents were scat-
tered around Yost Ice Arena. They
paid full price for their tickets,
since the game wasn't included in
student season ticket packages.
A Senior Night without stu-
dents is becoming commonplace at
Michigan.
In five of the last six years,
hockey's Senior Night occurred
over springbreak. (The 2006-07
Senior Night was on Feb. 3 because
the Wolverines played their last six
regular season games on the road.)
Sometimes there's no way to
avoid having Senior Night over
spring break, especially for the
basketball team, whose conference
schedule is controlled by the Big
Ten.
But there was no reason to
exclude students from this year's
hockey Senior Night. In fact, this
year's last regular-season home
game fell on the best possible night,
considering the CCHA regular sea-
son always ends during Michigan's
spring break.
Students who bought season
tickets were alerted that Satur-
day's game was not included in
the package because it technically
took place during break. They were
given the option to purchase a
ticket for the game at an additional
cost. By the looks of the diminished
(though still boisterous) student
section Saturday, few did.
The Athletic Department had it
backwards in making Senior Night

tickets an add-in to the season
ticket package. Instead, students
should have had the option to opt
out of the game if they knew they
wouldn't be back in Ann Arbor:
Students not only should have
been included so they could enjoy
another game at Yost but so they
could also celebrate the accom-
plishments of the senior class. The
student section is one of the key
dlements of playing at Yost, and
on Saturday the seniors on the
hockey team were deprived of the
well-earned appreciation of their
peers. (Plus, students missed out on
Detroit Red Wings legend Gordie
Howe droppingthe puck at cen-
ter ice before the game. That was
pretty cool.)
It's true that the students will
have at least two more games to
applaud the seniors at Yost this
season, since Michigan will host a
playoff series in two weeks.
But the importance of the Senior
Night ceremonies shouldn't be
understated. It's easy to congratu-
late someone for a strong effort
duringthe game, but there's no
other time dedicated to celebrating
four years of hard work.
Michigan doesn't have complete
control over its CCHA schedule,
but it can request certain dates to
be home, away or open, associate
coach Mel Pearson said Thursday
after practice.
Usually, the biggest concern is
avoiding long road trips around
exam time and home games on
football weekends. But since the
CCHA season always ends during
the last weekend of spring break,
Michigan could request to be home
on the final night of the season.
With many students already back
on campus, Senior Night could rea-
sonably be included in their season
ticket packages.
It may seem like a big hassle just
to get the students there for one
inre game atYost. But ifs player
has worked hard for four years, he
deserves to be recognized.
And the students want to recog-
nize the effort at Senior Night. They
just need tobe given the chance.
- Sandals can be reached
at nsandals()umich.edu.

Benson reaches
1,000-point
milestone in loss to
Indiana
By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
How, did Michigan women's
basketball coach Kevin Borseth
feel after yesterday's 67-61loss to
Indiana?
"Terrible."
Which is fitting, because that's
exactly how the Wolverines
played - at least for the last 10
minutes.
* After dominating the majority
of the game, Michigan followed
the blueprint it had established
throughout the season by failing
to finish.
The Wolverines went into half-
time up six and came out of the
locker room seeing red - or, in
this case, Hoosier crimson. They
went on an 11-2 run to push their
lead to 14 at the 15:40 mark.
"We were playing to win,"
Borseth said. "We played like we
knew we were capable of playing
all season."
Just two minutes later, Michi-
gan started to let the game slip
away. A free throw and two
straight jumpers, one a 3-pointer
by Hoosier junior Jamie Braun,
cut the lead to eight.
Indiana forced Michigan turn-
overs that led to fast-break oppor-
tunities. They scored 22 points off
giveaways, most of them late in
the game.
"We had some critical
turnovers and it seemed like
we lost our wits down the
stretch," Borseth said. "It was
unacceptable."

Indiana did what Michigan
could not - close out the game.
The loss was especially heart-
breaking for the Wolverines
because the first 25 minutes fea-
tured some of their best basket-
ball of the season against one of
the top teams in the conference.
Their ball movement was
impeccable and the emphasis on
passing came from an unlikely
source: senior forward Carly Ben-
son. She is known more for her
draining than dishing, but she
notched a career-high six assists
and only one turnover yesterday
along with a team-high 13 points.
Though it was Senior Night
for Indiana, it was also a special
night for Benson, who scored her
1,000th point on an old-fashioned
three-point play shortly before
halftime.
She became the 19th player in
Michigan history to reach the
milestone.
During their dominant stretch,
the Wolverines put emphasis on
getting points down. low. They
ended the game with 32 points in
the paint, thanks largely to junior
Krista Phillips and senior Steph-
any Skrba, who combined for 22
of them.
Even 5-foot-8 freshman guard
Courtney Boylan got in on the
act, cashing a few floaters inside
on her way to 12 points.
But it was all for naught and
Michigan.lost its seventh straight
game to close out the regular sea-
son.
It was certainly not the end
this team was hoping for, but the
Wolverines won't have to wait
long for revenge - they will be
taking on the Hoosiers again
in four days in the first round
of the Big Ten tournament in
Indianapolis.

WILL uMtLLER/Daily
Senior Carly Benson notched a career-high six assists in the 67-61 loss to Indiana.

I

After fast start, three-week slump
continues in road loss to Washington

The
tennis
define


By MARK BURNS After starting the season an
Daily Sports Writer impressive 5-0, the Wolverines
have lost six matches in the past
No. 18 Michigan men's three weeks.
team's season still can be And Michigan's most recent
d in one word: inconsistent. setback came Friday, thanks to a
4-2 loss to No. 41 Washington in
Malibu, Calif.
This year, Michigan hasn't
yet proven it can compete with
the best. It has faced five ranked
teams in the past month, los-
ing against four. The Wolver-
ines' lone win came against No.
25 California. At this time last
season, Michigan was 7-2 and
went.500 against the four ranked
opponents it faced.
Because the Wolverines
returned most of their roster, this.
season's disparity is surprising.
'Losing is definitely not some-
thing you want to get used to,"

Michigan coach Bruce Berque
said. "Everyone just needs to get
back to practice, work on their
game, and we'll be fine."
After struggling with the per-
formance of his doubles teams
earlier in the season, Berque has
recently shuffled the pairings
to give the Wolverines a boost.
Michigan has responded by win-
ning the doubles point in two of
its last three matches.
Berque consistently empha-
sizes the importance of grabbing
that point and getting the match
off to a good start. Against the
Huskies (8-3), the Wolverines won
all three doubles matches.
Michigan (6-6) then won its
first singles match as junior
George Navas defeated his oppo-
nent at the No. 6 position (6-4,
6-2) to give the Wolverines a quick

2-0 start.
"I noticed that my opponent
was lacking a little confidence
with his game, so I just wanted to
jump on him early," Navas said.
But the strong start didn't
translate into overall team suc-
cess. Navas's win ended up being
the lone singles victory for Michi-
gan, as Washington won the next
four matches.
"Obviously, we wanted to come
out here and get (a) win," Berque
said. "But unfortunately, that
didn't happen."
The Wolverines will play three
more . matches before gearing
up for Big Ten play at the end of
March. Berque said he believes
the Wolverines have the athletic
ability and talent to earn the wins,
if they stay confident and practice
more efficiently.

4

IJI

Chidester's clutch hitting leads
Michigan to extra-inning victory

9

Bad weather cuts
southern trip against
top-25 teams short
ByROGER SAUERHAFT
DailySports Writer
Freshman Amanda Chidester
may not yet have a specific position
to call her own on the Michigan
softball team, but she's clearly mak-
ing a name for herself as the Queen
of Clutch.
With five game-winning hits
already under her belt through the
first fourteen games of the season,
Chidester was exactly who No. 6
Michigan wanted at the plate in
the 13th inningof last Tuesday's 1-0
win against Florida State in Talla-
hassee.
With the score tied at zero, one
out and junior Maggie Viefhaus on
second base, Chidester lined a dou-
ble just over the head of the Semi-
nole third baseman and Viefhaus
sprinted home for the first run of
the extra-inning affair.
Chidester, who played right field
in the game,- said there isn't any-
thing special about her clutch hit-
ting this season. She just tries her

hardest to keep the same approach
in every single at-bat - see the ball
and hit it hard.
Despite some early struggles
hitting. off Florida State's Sarah
Hamilton, her foolproof approach
eventually worked.
"(Hamilton) kept the hitters
thinking, which is what a pitcher
is supposed to do," Chidester said.
"It got me out of my hitting game
because I was thinking the whole
time instead of going up and seeing
the ball and hitting it. In the 13th
inning, to finally get a hit off her,
that was exciting."
Tuesday's win was emblematic
of the rest of the Wolverines' eight
spring break games, Michigan fin-
ished the week with a 5-3 record
The pitchers consistently turned
in stellar performances, but hit-
ting was at a premium in a series
of pitchers' duels. Michigan scored
two runs or less in four of its eight
games, and in two of Michigan's
losses, the Wolverines lost by just
one run.
"We're not hitting as well as we
can, and I don't think we're clicking
as well as a team as we're going to,"
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins
said. "That's what the early season
is for. The offense needs to step up.

Our pitchers have carried their fair
share of the load."
The Wolverines should have
ample time to work out the kinks
on offense. Theyhave 14 roadgames
remainingbeforethefBigTenopener
on March 21 against Northwestern.
"It was a good experience to
see where we actually are," junior
pitcher Nikki Nemitz said. "They
were all close games, and having
that energy and effort there the
entire game helps for getting a feel
for what it's going to be like in the
postseason:"
This past weekend should have
provided one of the biggest early
tests of the season for the Wolver-
ines. They were slated to face off
against four top-25 teams in seven
games at the NFCA Leadoff Classic
in Columbus, Ga. But bad weather
wiped out five of the team's games,
and even the team's flight back to
Ann Arbor was scratched in favor
of a long bus ride.
"One thing you learn when you
coach in softball is that you just
worry about the teams you play,"
Hutchins said. "We can't control
the weather and obviously not the
airline. We're just a team that's try-
ing to evolve and get better every
game."

M


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

March 2, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom March 2, 2009 - 3B

Uneven play characterizes
weekend for Wolverines


Maloney earns
500th career victory
with win over Akron
on Sunday
By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
When Michigan baseball coach
Rich Maloney stepped onto the
field at Sessions Stadium yester-
day before his team's game against
Akron, he was just one win away
from 500 career wins.
But with the threat of rain show-
ers looming, earning the milestone
didn't look probable.
After an 90-minute rain delay,
Michigan (7-2) found itself down 7-2
heading into the sixth inning. Malo-
ney's 500th win seemed even more
unlikely.
But the Wolverines rallied after
senior Nick Urban was bagged by a
pitch and knocked out of the game.
The play helped set up a two-run
bomb by fifth-year senior and tri-
captain Tim Kalczynski that cut the
Zips' lead to three. Sophomore Ryan
LaMarre continued the offensive
production with an RBI single to
move Michigan within two.
The next inning, Wolverines
knocked in five runs to complete
the comeback. LaMarre knocked in
a two-run single to give Michigan
a 10-7 lead and secure Maloney's
500th career victory as the game
was called short after eight innings
due to rain.
"I didn't know about it until after
the game when one of the assistant
coaches brought it up, which I think
speaks highly of Coach," LaMarre
said. "He didn't mention it at all
which means he's putting our team
first."
But inconsistency plagued Mich-
igan this weekend as it dropped its
first two losses of the season at the
Jacksonville Tournament.
The Wolverines went 3-2 at the
tournament and took longer than
expected to give Maloney his land-
mark victory.
Maloney said he used the trip to
get a better idea of his lineup after
LINCOLN
From page 1B
Despite its small size, Michi-
gan played grittier than it has all
season, diving for loose balls, box-
ing out despite a 20-to-30 pound
disadvantage in certain positions
and chipping away at Wisconsin's
nine-point lead.
Take that same mentality to
Minnesota, and Michigan has a
really good shot.
BULLDOGS
From page 1B
pretty good the rest of the game."
Mitera turned the puck over in
his own zone on his second shift
Friday, which resulted in the Bull-
dogs' only goal of the weekend.
But as Friday's game wore on, his
skating seemed more fluid and he
grew less tentative with the puck.
Mitera finished with a rating of
plus-two on the weekend.
"He got off to a little bit of a
rough start," senior Tim Miller
said. "I know he was minus-one

right away. But you could tell
after a couple of shifts, he got into
a groove and played really well
at the end. He was making solid
touches and quick passes."
The sweep of the Bulldogs (9-14-
5-2 CCHA, 12-17-7,overall) was the
Wolverines' eighth of the season.
BADGERS
From page 1B
Every time Michigan pulled with-
in a possession down the stretch,
the Badgers used their superior
size to grab an offensive rebound
or force a turnover.
Sims and Harris led Michigan
with 17 and 15 points, respective-
ly, and collected a combined iS
rebounds. But the duo didn't even
come close to matching its com-
bined 56-point explosion against
Purdue on Thursday.
"You've got to find a way at the
end to gut out a win, and that's
basically what it is," Harris said.
"We need to be poised and find a
way at the end to gut it out."
Michigan has just two road vic-
tories in10awaygames.Withabye
thisweek,theWolverineshaveone
more opportunity to earn a quality
road win.WhenMichiganheads to
Minnesota (8-8,20-8), it will again
be a battle of the bubble teams.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Mark Mitera scored a goal in his second game back after an ACL injury.
Mite-ra -s 1retu-rn
wll rovide
pla yoff spark

 a
Sophomore Ryan LaMarre is hitting .421 this season, with three homeruns.

losing a majority of his starters to
graduation or Major League Base-
ball.
In both of their losses, the Wol-
verines lacked consistent pitching,
and the offense sputtered against
Wisconsin-Milwaukee and host
Jacksonville. With leads in both
games, Michigan couldn't capitalize
once its bats cooled off and its pitch-
ing gave upa fury of runs.
"Yeah, we played them tough in
a building we haven't won in, but
we needed that victory, and we
didn't get it, so it's disappointing,"
fifth-year senior guard C.J. Lee
said. "There are no moral victo-
ries at this point in the season."
Lee's right. It's do or die time..
But that's exactly when this team
has seemed to thrive.
The Wolverines have played
their best basketball with their
backs against the wall. When
everyone had written off an
After an 9-7 start that included
losses to two teams with losing
records, Michigan has won 16 of
its past 20 games and has scored
four or more goals in 14 of those 20
contests.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
couldn't help putting his team's
second-half tear in perspective
Saturday.
Entering December, Michigan
found itself in seventh place in the
conference standings. The causes
of the Wolverines' inconsisten-
cies ranged from a Jekyll & Hyde
offense to an undermanned defen-
sive corps that went without three
regular blueliners for an eight-
game stretch.
"Nobody thought we would've
gotten off to that slow of a start,"
Miller said Friday. "It was really
frustrating. But we got that Christ-,
mas break and we thought about
what we needed to do. We real-

The Wolverines responded to
their first loss of the season with a
dominating victory over Jackson-
ville, winning 21-3.
Senior pitcher Chris Fetter, who
threw seven strikeouts and allowed
just four hits in six innings to over-
power Jacksonville in the first
game, was the star of the weekend
on the mound. Despite the struggles
the offense had in previous games,
NCAA Tournament bid, they
handily beat then-No. 16 Purdue
87-78 at Crisler Arena.
When they weren't even expect-
ed to stay within 20 points, they
nearly upset then-No. 1 Connecti-
cut, losing by just eight points.
And outsized in one of the
toughest Big Ten venues, they
found ways to come close to a win
yesterday.
Michigan has come up short a
lot this season, but after yester-
day's disappointment, the Wolver-
ized that if we didn't pick it up, we
weren't going to make the (NCAA)
Tournament."
Just three months later, the
Wolverines (20-8-0-0, 26-10) are
now seeded second in the CCHA
Tournament, which means a first-
round bye and home-ice advan-
tage in the quarterfinals March
13-15.
When reflecting on the regular-
season finale, Berenson pointed
out that Michigan's 20 conference
victories matched that of last
year's Frozen Four team.
That was a squad that featured
two 30-goal scorers, including the
program's second Hobey Baker
Award winner, and arguably the
best season by a goalie in school
history - from none other than
Sauer.
What's more surprising, con-
sidering the puzzling first half, is
that the Wolverines' 26 victories

FILt PHOTO
the Wolverine batters lit up the
scoreboard against the Dolphins.
Led by LaMarre, they overpowered
Jacksonville with a fury of runs
throughout the game.
"This weekend, I think it was our
offense's turn to show what we can
do if our pitchers happen to give a
few runs," LaMarre said. "We have
no problem answering and putting
some runs of our own."
ines should be very eager to win
in Minneapolis.
"(Focusing) is the least of our
concerns right now," Lee said.
"We're playing for something
right'now. Everybody's going to be
focusing, and if there not, some-
thing's wrong with them."
A lot is on the line next week.
The Wolverines should be hungry
enough to deliver.
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr@umich.edu.
this season is just one short of last
year's regular-season total.
"one reason we get better dur-
ing the season is that we're a
young team, and I play the young
players," Berenson said. "And then
they learn and they get better. And
they get more confident as the
year goes on. I've always said the
first semester takes forever for a
freshman. Then the next thing you
know, you're graduating. That's
how quick it goes."
The Wolverines seem to have
finally gotten over their problems
with inconsistent scoring: The
offense generated goals from three
different lines in five of its past
eight games.
And though it took nearly five
months, Michigan's greatest
strength entering the season -
depth on the blueline - has now
finally manifested itself with Mit-
era back in the fold.

So what does Mark Mitera's
return really mean?
First of all, it means
another 'C' on a Michigan hockey
jersey.
And it created two Wolverine
goals in Saturday night's 4-0 win
over the Bulldogs, too.
But it also directly caused Fer-
ris State's lone tally of the series,
which occurred just three minutes
and 11 seconds into Fridays game
after Mitera
turned over
the puck.
A major
questionn
heading into
Mitera's post-
injury debut
was simple. NICOLE
With other AUERBACH
defense-
men looking
impressive in his absence, is a
less-than-100-percent Mitera still
deserving of a roster spot?
You bet.
And the long-awaited return
of the team's senior captain, isn't
over yet.
His official comeback won't be
complete until he's back to playing
like one of the top defensemen in
collegiate hockey.
And according to Michigan
coach Red Berenson's evaluation of
Mitera's play this weekend, that re-
emergence might notbe too far off.
"You're starting to see the Mark
Miterasthe real Mark Mitera,"
Berenson said. "At the start of
the year, he would have been our
best defenseman, so he's got to
grow (back) into that. But you saw
glimpses of that this weekend."
And those snapshots of Mitera's
talentgrew more frequent as the
series continued.
Mitera tore his anterior cruci-
ate ligament in the first period of
the team's season opener on Oct.
10. He didn't play again until this
weekend, the team's last regular-
season series. During each of this
weekend's periods, he felt like he
was improving.
"It's tough to adjust to situations
and see plays developing," Mitera
said. "As (I) get moreandmore
time on the ice, everything's start-
ing to come back to me a little bit
- where I should be anticipating
plays, stepping up, tryingto read
forechecks - small things like that
are starting to come back."
But even as he returns toform,

Mitera's not just your average
shutdown defenseman. He's a
first-round draft pick for the Ana-
heim Ducks. Last season, Inside
College Hockeynamed Mitera
the Defenseman of the Year, and
Mitera also earned Michigan's Vic
Heyliger Awa'rd as the team's out-
standing defenseman. He posted
career highs in points (23), assists
(21) and plus/minus (plus 30).
He's a smart player, and he's got
three full seasons of experience
under his belt. He's also likely
learned from taking on a captain/
assistant coach-type role this sea-
son, analyzing practice and games
from the bleachers.
Even in his six periods of play
this weekend, his on-ice adjust-
ments were sharp. His turnover on
Friday that led to the Ferris State
goal quickly became alesson, and
Berenson said Mitera had fewer
giveaways than all other Michigan
defensemen in the series overall.
Miteraprovides a big, physical
presence for the Wolverines on
the blueline, even if he's not totally
back in game shape yet.
And just seeing him in uniform
provides a spark for Michigan, an
emotional boost that could carry
into the playoffs.
Mitera's teammates have seen
that in a variety of forms - from
his determination during rehab to
his surprising goal in Saturday's
second period, and most impor-
tantly, his behavior at practice.
"Him being on theice the past
month has been awesome," junior
defenseman Steve Kampfer said.
"Just giving pointers here and
there to the freshmen, the younger
guys and even myself. It's been
great. He's our captain. He's our
leader. He's been showing it these
past few weeks, and he showed
that this weekend."
Kampfer said he expects an
even stronger and more confident
Mitera to emerge after acouple
more weeks of practice.
That works out quite conve-
niently for the Wolverines, who
finished second in the CCHA and
received a first-round bye in the
conference tournament. They
won't play again until March 13.
By then, Mitera still mightnot
be 100 percent..But his impact on
the team isn't simply measuredby
assists or blocked shots.
- Auerbach can be reached
at naauer@umich.edu

r

"We can practice pretty hard,
get guys running ... and get us
ready for this game, because it is
going to be a war," Lee said.
a oto FESr&AS T" c tSTSNCE739r
T - S HIR T PR INT ERY
-Expert Screenprintng
Embroidery
TEES, SWEATS, SHORTS a
CAPS, TOTES,APRONS
Muht-Color yu We Turs
*Prntin~g ( Yur Skewtch
M Our speciality Into T-ShiretArt
* EMAIL DESIGN FOR PROMPT QUOTE E
CATALOGUE, & EMAIL LINK AT
* 505. FROM CAMPUS
1002 PONTIAC TR. 994-13670
1 E M N Oil N A v M N 8 M


Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
Air SUNG'ASE
and... more classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded its
2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.lsa.umich.edu/Isa/newcourses.

!
,'

V



4

4B - March 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

Bue I11T
Michigan finishes
just 7.5 points out
of first place in
Bloomington
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Colorful "Go Blue" and "Michi-
gan Wolverines Big Ten '09" signs
hung conspicuously in the stands
of the Harry Gladstein Fieldhouse
this weekend.
Last week, the No. 4 Michi-
gan women's track and field team
threw a poster-decorating party as
a chance to loosen up before their
biggest meet of the season so far -
the Big Ten Indoor Championships
in Bloomington.
"I think for the most part, every-
body went in relaxed," senior
co-captain Casey Taylor said.
"Everyone had the same goal in
mind. We were all happy and excit-
ed to be there."
The Michigan contingent in the
stands, mostly composed of par-
ents, was slightly outnumbered by
the hometown Hoosier crowd.
But despite their enthusiastic
cheering, after two days of compe-
tition the Wolverines didn't rank as
high as they hoped.
BIG TENS
From page 1B
Bottom estimated that 15 swim-
mers secured qualifying times and
possibly three or four more could
be added. Last season, the team
took 12 swimmers to the NCAA
championship meet.
Michigan absolutely dominated
the meet from start to finish; win-
ning 13 of the 18 swimming events.
No other team won more than two
events.
Sophomore Tyler 'Clary was
named the Big Ten's Swimmer of
the Year and the Swimmer of the
Championships. Clary broke a
record in each of his events, includ-
ing a school record in the 200-yard
backstroke and a Big Ten record in
the 200-yard individual medley.
Clary also set an NCAA record in
the 400-yard individual medley
(3:38.03) which was formerly held

The squad placed third in the
meet with 121.5 points, behind first-
place Minnesota (129) and second-
place Penn State (125).
Lastseason,theWolverinescame
to second in the Big Ten Champion-
ships, just behind Minnesota and
ahead of Pettn State.
"We always expect to be in the tsp
three and to be in position to win,"
Michigan coach James Henry said.
Since 2005, Penn State, Minne-
sota and Michigan have all placed
in the top four at the Big Ten Cham-
pionships, swapping places every
year.
In 2005 and 2006 respectively,
Michigan took the title. In 2007
and 08 Minnesota carne in first.
"Minnesota and Penn State were
both favored, and we were justhop-
ing we would be able to get in front
of them," Henry said. "It has been
a three-team race for years, and
it just so happens that Minnesota
and Penn State got the better of us
today."
A championship was looking
promising after the first day of the
competition, when the Wolverines
were tied for first with Minnesota.
Michigan was led by impressive
performances by senior co-captain
Tiffany Ofili, the top scorer in the
entire meet with 31 points, and
senior co-captain Bettie Wade (28
points), helped the Wolverines.
by three-time Olympic gold medal-
ist Ryan Lochte. Michigan has now
won that event in 11 consecutive
seasons.
"I felt really good in the water,"
Clary said about his race in the 400-
yard individual medley. "I didn't
think I was going to go so fast, I,
thought I would swim a 3:39 high
or a 40 low. But as I turned to start
the breaststroke, I heard the roar
of the crowd get louder, which was
cool. So I knew I was swimming
fast at that point and I just buckled
down and tried to get my hands on
the wall."
. Senior co-captains Matt Pat-
ton and Bobby Savulich also had
outstanding swims. Patton won
the 500-yard and 1,650-yard free-
style events and Savulich won the
100-yard freestyle. Patton, who
was tired from a challenging week
of training leading up to the meet,
said his race in the 1,650-yard free-
style was the most painful race of

e e MEW~S TRACK I ELD
ird-place finish 'Despitle injuries,
Wolverines take
, second at Big Ten

4

FILE PHOTO
Senior Tiffany Ofill won the 60-meter hurdles at this year's Big Ten Championships.

"A lot of stuff that was stressed
(in our team meetings last week)
was to make sure we had fun and
to go as hard as we could because
every point was going to count,"
Wade said. "Overall, we tried our
best and gave it our all and ran our
hearts out."
The Wolverines are now instead
his career.
"Basically, Matt just gutted it
out," Bottom said. "He didn't win it
easily. There was a guy right there
racing him and we all watched Matt
fight his way through that race."
But Michigan's overall margin of
victory was not built on first-place
finishes alone. In fact, the team's
top swimmers were all quick to
share the credit for the Big Ten title
with their teammates.
Bottom said the team's victory
was built on swims where the ath-
letes overcame some kind of dif-
ficulty to swim well - swims like
junior Alon Mandel's race in the
backstroke. Mandel had three races
on Friday, all 20 minutes apart. Bot-
tom advised Mandel to back off on
his middle race to save his energy
and win his final race, the 100-yard
backstroke. Mandel tied for fifth in
the 100-yard butterfly, the middle
race, and first in the backstroke.
"Alon said to me, 'That's not the

gearing up for nationals on March
13-14 in College Station, Texas.
"Asa captain, I feel it's important
to stay positive and keep our head
up," Taylor said. "It's a time people
can beat themselves up. But all four
captains are keeping their heads
up, just looking forward towards
nationals and the outdoor season."
Michigan way.' And I just said,
'You do it your way, go for it," Bot-
tom said. "I'm still learning from
these guys about the tradition of
this program and being a Michigan
man means having a drive that goes
beyond points and winning, it's a
attitude of not giving up and learn-
ing from competition and applying
it to life."
Michigan has clearly been the
best team in the Big Ten all season,
finishing undefeated in conference
dual meets. Savulich called the
atmosphere on deck for Michigan
"relaxed" and said the Wolverines
felt more comfortable being the
team with the lead instead of trying
to catch up.
"When it counted, our guys were
pumped and ready to swim fast,"
Savulich said. "But at the same
time, the pressure wasn't on us,
it was more on the other teams to
come after us, so we just focused on
finishing the job."

Harris shines with
two individual wins
as Minnesota takes
the championship
By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
All season, the Michigan
men's track and field team has
been plagued by key injuries
and unpredictability. And when
a tweaked hamstring prevented
junior captain Frank Shotwell
from attempting to defend his Big
Ten heptathlon title Saturday, it
looked as though the conference
championship meet would be
more of the same.
But Sunday proved tobe differ-
ent. Four Wolverines won a total
of five events - including two
conference titles by senior sprint-
er Adam Harris - which helped
Michigan finish second overall
behind No. 13 Minnesota at the
Big Ten Indoor Championships
in State College.
The Golden Gophers entered
the meet as the clear-cut favorite
and obliterated the rest of the field
with 135 team points. Michigan
wasn't within 'triking distance
of first with 92 points, but it had
more than enough to place ahead
of host Penn State's 78 points.
Michigan coach Fred LaPlante
was satisfied with his team's per-
formance, given the wide array
of injuries the Wolverines have
dealt with this the season. But he
stopped short of saying he was
surprised by how well his squad
competed.
"Minnesota had clearly shown
they were the strongest team
on paper," LaPlante said. "But I
felt like if we somehow got it all
together, we could give them a
run for their money.... There is a
crazy part of me that thought we
could win if we somehow pulled
it together."

Despite not being able to bring
home the Big Ten Indoor Cham-
pionship, the Wolverines 'still
validated the optimism of their
coach.
Harris, an All-American who
struggled with back ailments
throughout the season, rebound-
ed last week at the Silverston
Invitational to break his own
school record in the 60-meter
dash with atime of 6.60 seconds
- the best recorded time in the
Big Ten this season.
He followed it up with a 6.62
on Sunday to defend his 60-meter
title, while also taking first in
the 200-meter race, an event in
which he'd never before reached
the finals and breaking another
school record.
"That was definitely the high-
light of the Big Ten meet for me,"
Harris said. "I was telling every-
one I've never made a final before
and hoping this year was differ-
ent. I knew if I just went as fast
as I could and tried to hold it, I
could get it.
"I knew I was really close to
the school record. ... That time
was great - I definitely didn't
expect to go that fast."
The distance medley relay
team also won a conference title
behind the effortsofjuniorsBran-
don Fellows and Roger Billhardt,
sophomore David St. Amant and
senior anchor Justin Switzer. In
addition to running on the cham-
pion medley squad, Switzer also
came in first-place in the mile
with a 4:02.60.
Redshirt junior thrower Sean
Pruitttook the weight throw after
coming into the meet with the
top throw in the conference and
a school record in the event. His
throw of 67 feet and 7.50 inches
was more than a foot longer than
any other throwers.
"It was a day where our big
guns were great and our sup-
porting cast was great," LaPlante
said.


4

I

4

4

4


L


