w e 13idigan Bail

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, January 28, 2009

michigandaily.com

MAKIN' LOVE TO THE CAMERA

CITY HOUSiNG
Affordable
housing to
come to A
Plans mulled to planning to replace any loot
parking space by either build-
convert one of three ing underground parking lots or
additional levels to the parking
parking lots into lot on the corner of Ann Street
and Ashley Street.
low-income housing The housing site would include
60 to 100 single, one-bedroom
By LARA ZADE units, Hall said. She added that
Daily Staff Reporter the project requires a minimum of
60 units so that the revenue from
Washtenaw County and the rent can support various services,
city of Ann Arbor are teaming up like social work and security, for
to combat the lack of low-income its residents.
housing downtown. Hall said building on city- or
Community development offi- county- owned property is erd-
cials from both the city of Ann nomically beneficial because
Arbor and Washtenaw County there are no land acquisition
are proposing the conversion of costs. In addition, downtown
three downtown parking lots location offers readily available
into future sites for low-income services for special-needs tenants
housing. The development will be nearby.
especially targeted at residents The development costs to build
who make tO to 15 percent of the 60 units can range from $6.3 mil-
Ann Arbor area's median income. lion to $10.8 million and $7.4 to
Jennifer Hall, housing man- $14.7 million for 100 units, Hall
ager for the Washtenaw commu- said. Service costs range from
nity development department, $5,583/unit per year for 60 units
said the plans are geared towards to $4,848/unit per year for 100
people who have been displaced units.
by rising rents in the downtown Federal tax credits would
area and the closing of the city's cover 80 percent of the .build=
former YMCA, which used to ing's construction. Rent would
house low-income residents. be subsidized by project-based
The parking lots, which are vouchers, which are funded by
all city- or county-owned, are the federal Department of Hous-
located at the northwest corner ing and Urban Development.
of Catherine Street and Fourth Hall said developing low-
Avenue, the southwest corner income housing in a college
of Catherine Street and Fourth "town like Ann Arbor can be
Avenue and the southwest corner challenging because of the large
of Ann Street and FourthAvenue. student population. On the one
City and county officials are See HOUSING, Page 7A

Samantha Stencel and Matt Plonsker, self-proclaimed "sexperts" and hosts of WOLV-TV's "Turned On," offer their insights into the sex lives of students last night.
ICE HOCKEY AFTERMATH
DPS toreview-.o .n-ice clash

Two Michigan State
players leave team,
i one leaves school
By TREVOR CALERO and
CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily StaffReporters
On the same day that two Michi-
gan State players involved in an
on-ice attack on a Michigan defen-
seman decided to leave the team,
the Department of Public Safety
confirmed that they would be look-
ing into a possible criminal investi-

gation of the incident.
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown
said yesterday that University
Police will review the on-ice con-
duct of both Michigan State play-
ers, Andrew Conboy and Corey
Tropp, to determine whether or .
not to proceed with an investiga-
tion. The confirmation comes just
hours after Michigan State coach
Rick Comley announced the depar-
ture of both players at his weekly
press conference.
With less than a minute left
in Saturday's 5-3 win against the
Spartans, Michigan junior Steve
Kampfer laid a clean hit on Tropp.

Seconds later, Kampfer was hit
from behind into the boards by
Conboy and, while laying motion-
less on the ice, was slashed in the
head and neck areas by Tropp.
Comley called the hits "cheap"
and "uncalled for" after the
game.
Brown said that intent would be
a determining factor when consid-
ering whether or not to investigate
the incident, something that can be
hard to do in an athletic setting.
Many actions considered com-
monplace on an athletic playing
field would be viewed completely
differently in normal, everyday

life, Brown said. She added that
University Police must determine
if the players' actions contain ele-
ments of a crime, even in an on-ice
environment.
Both Conboy, a freshman, and
Tropp, a sophomore, decided to
leave the team a day after both
were suspended for the rest of the
hockey season, Comley said at his
weekly press conference yester-
day.
Conboy will also be withdraw-
jng from Michigan State University.
It is unclear if Tropp will remain
at Michigan State, but Comley said
See FALLOUT, Page 7A

MEDICAL BREAKTHROUGH
Students design gadget I
with power to save lives

Battery-powered
surgery lamp needed
for energy outages
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
A surgeon is performing open
heart surgery in the Philippines.
But halfway through, the hospital
loses power. The lights go out. The

nurses fumble around in the dark
until they find a flashlight. With
no other option, the doctor con-
tinues the surgery with only the
flashlight's single beam of light for
guidance.
This is not a fictional story.
Hospitals in the Philippines and
across the world frequently expe-
rience blackouts in the middle of
surgeries and use flashlights as
their only light source. A Univer-
sity student group, Michigan's

Health Engineered for All Lives
(M-HEAL), is trying solve this
problem.
Last January, a group of 12
M-HEAL members, all College of
Engineering students, began con-
structing a design for a battery-
operated surgical lamp.
Julia Samorezov, president and
co-founder of M-HEAL, said the
group thought of the idea after
meeting technicians from World
See LAMP, Page 7A

ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN
University economists say Obama's
stimulus rebates won't do much

Michigan Student Assembly members, led by Sabrina Shingwani (center), watch as a man voiced his concerns about Gaza.
MSA passes trio of resolutions

Professors say
tax rebates fail to
achieve intended
'bang for the buck'
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
While politicians in Washing-
ton D.C. debate over how to lead
the United States out of its current

recession; two University profes-
sors have their own ideas to add to
the discussion.
According Business Prof. Joel
Slemrod and Economics Prof.
Matthew Shapiro, tax rebates
shouldn't be a significant part of
the federal economic stimulus
package under consideration in
the U.S. Congress.
Though the $825 billion Ameri-
can Recovery Reinvestment Plan,
proposed by President Barack
tbama and Congressional Dem-

ocrats includes $275 billion in
rebates for taxpayers, Shapiro and
Slemrod's research shows that the
plan isn't likely to have a substan-
tial economic impact.
Research by the two profes-
sors on the last year's $152 billion
Economic Stimulus Act - which
provided tax rebates for low- and
middle-income families and tax
incentives for business investment
- found that the package didn't
provide the intended economic
See ECONOMISTS, Page 7A

Proposals seek to
solve problems for
student groups,
student-athletes
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
During last night's Michigan
Student Assembly meeting, mem-
bers passed resolutions to form
committees to address challenges

facing campus groups and help
better relations between students
and student athletes.Theyalsoput
in a bid to host a conference deal-
ing with gender identity issues.
Early into the meeting, mem-
bers voted to approve a student
organization task force designed
to "investigate any and all chal-
lenges facing student organiza-
tions on campus."
The resolution to create the
task force was authored by LSA
Reps. Gibran Baydoun and Chris
Armstrong.

The task force will conduct
interviews with student organi-
zations and provide reports with
recommendations for, improve-
ments to the assembly. The task
force will address challenges
including recruitment, funding,
advertising and findingvenues for
events.
Armstrong said he believed the
task force would prove useful in
fosteringmore involvementinstu-
dent organizations.
"There's a lot of red tape for
See MSA, Page 7A


WEATHER HI:26
TOMORROW LO: 16

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news(michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
How should we characterize Bill Ayers?
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S.................................2A CLASSIFIEDS.................,...6A
Vol CXIX, No. 82 OPINION .....tTS.......................... A
l'2009 The Michigan Daily ARTS ....... ............A THE STATEMENT . 1B
michigundoilycow A T ES A E E T....... ..1

fl


2A - Wednesday, January 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MOt~4DAY: TUESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:

MONDAY: TUESA:WDESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters Explained _Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
WHAT HAPEc e PTY KEGS?
A ecretbew?

As many have put it before,
beer is the leading social lubri-
cant distributed at college parties
across the nation. The average
college student is well-read in
this area of study, drinking his or
her beer either from a can, bottle,
beer bong or as is the case at the
select house party, a keg.
Students looking for their beer
fix can find kegs at liquor stores
all across campus, from Strick-
land's Market on Geddes Avenue
to Blue Front Kegs on Packard
Street. But what happens when
hung over students bring their
kegs back to the store the day
after a party?
Most liquor store employees
don't really know.
Ronk Patel, an employee at
Blue Front Kegs, said once the
kegs are returned, customers
are given their deposit back

and empty kegs are sent back
to the distributing company. He
said beer distributors pick up
the kegs each week, but that he
doesn't know exactly what hap-
pens to the kegs after that.
"We have nothing to do with
them after they get picked up,"
Patel said.
Eliza Brace, an employee at
Village Corner on South For-
est Avenue, said their process
is similar. The main keg suppli-
ers for Village Corner are Silver
Foam Distributing Company and
Rave Associates, which oper-
ate in Jackson, Mich., and Ann
Arbor, respectively. The compa-
nies pick up the empty kegs for
recycling and then return them
to the stores-fresh and full of
beer.
"It's just like recycling cans -
whenever there is a beer delivery,

we get new, full kegs that replace
the empty ones," she said.
Bill Stanford, vice president
of operations at Silver Foam Dis-
tributing, explained that these
local companies are merely
distributors, and the kegs are
shipped from corporate head-
quarters to the local distributing
companies.
"Miller Brewing Company
goes about cleaning, recycling,
refilling them, and all that good
stuff," he said.
Anheuser Busch Inc., another
company that brands its name
on many of the aluminum kegs
sold throughout campus, had
little to say about the process.
"I honestly, really don't have
an idea about the process", said
Bill Etling, press coordinator for
the company.
ELYANA TWIGGS

sunny Bhagat, owneraof Blue Front Kegs, moves a keg in the store's
storage room. Bhagat said the store sells10 to 40 kegs each weekend.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours: Sun.-Thurs.1tna.m. -2am.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
torrettionscoectinsi@meichigandaily.com
letterstothe Editor tothedaily@meihigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0s63
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaly.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classified@nichigandaily.coni
734-764-0557
Online Sales ontineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734.-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor eratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitz ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:JillianBerman,TrevorCatero,Julie Rowe,LindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoller, KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaht, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
AlexProsperi,ColtRosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
SERA RTS n nEIS: Jameie Block,Brandoen nradis, WitneyPow
ASSTIN As DITORS:ssuaBayerAndrewLainDave ,BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidiAlsaah,uChanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSANT PHOTO EDITORS: MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,RobMigrin,Sam Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazinetEditor vosgerchjan@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@nichigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopytChief mitchetl@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer DisplayAdvertisingSales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
NewmanChristiePhillips
RyanBasinskiClassiiedSalesManager
ClassifiedSalesAssistantManager:AlisonThomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Leeand Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMiaiganl ISsS 74-6 s pnubleished nay throughtidayidurig the fallndn J ten
tes by studes at 76e Uniersity odMihigan. Oneopy is availablehfee of carg e ,t emr.
Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupatthe Dalysoffice for2.Subscriptionsforfal term,staringin
SeptemberviaU.malare$110.inter term(anuary through April)isi5,yearlong(September
tho AsshAprile issn hUieAsityaefilietesesut tred edsubsrptiorate.Qn-ampus
nssriptonsfraltermete$3s.Sbt6ftmeuthb6pepa675,iThee~rDtaftnnf'
TheAssociated Press ad The AsocatedColetePhess.

CRIME NOTES
Cash stolen

iPods stolen

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Fair of winter Talk on heart
traditions disease

from ice arena from dorm room

WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Sundayat about7:55
p.m.
WHAT: Two students called
to report cash stolen from
their wallets, University Police
reported. The money was taken
while the students were playing
hockey. The students said there
were seven or eight other vic-
tims. There are no suspects.
Window broken

WHERE: Couzens residence
hall
WHEN: Monday at about 7:25
p.m.
WHAT: A student called to
report that two iPods were
stolen from his room, Univer-
sity Police reported. The iPods
were stolen between 4 p.m. and
9 p.m. on Saturday. One of the
iPods was valued at $188 and
the other was valued at $530.

WHAT: A celebration of dif-
ferent cultural winter tradi-
tions featuring free food,
presentations and perfor-
mances. * * 1b1
WHO: Engineering Global
Leadership
WHEN: Today from 6:30 p.m.
to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Chesebrough
Auditorium, Duderstadt
Center
University
Philharmonia

WHAT: Epidemiology Prof.
Karen A. Matthews will give
the 35th Annual Thomas
Francis, Jr. Memorial Lec-
ture on the psychobiological s
origins of cardiovascular
disease.
WHO: Department of Epide-
miology.
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m.
to 4:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1690, Lane
Family Auditorium, SPH
Tower

A Pennsylvania woman has
offered to put ads on her body
in exchange for tickets to this.
year's Superbowl, ABC News
reported. Audra Turner said
she would sell space on her fore-
head and arms for adsduring the
game. She also offered her car as
a billboard while she travels to
Tampa, Fla. for the game.
Professors at the Univer-
sity of Ottawa's Internet
Policy and Public Interest
Clinic issued a complaint with
Canada's Office of the Privacy
Commissioner, claiming that
behavioral advertisinginvades
people's right to privacy.
"FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,7B
3A The U.S. Mint released
the Washington, D.C.
quarter on Monday, The
Associated Press reported. The
coin features jazz musician and
D.C.native Duke Ellington.It
also has an inscription of the
city's motto, "Justice for All."

in West Quad Contaminated

WHERE: West Quad residence
hall
WHEN: Monday at about 8:10
a.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
broke a window in the Educa-
tion Abroad Office of Cam-
bridge House, University Police
reported. The window was bro-
ken sometime between Jan. 24,
2009 and Jan. 29, 2009.

iiXures uumpeu
WHERE: East Medical Center
WHEN: Monday at about 11:40
a.m.
WHAT: Fixtures containing
mercury were dropped in a
dumpster, University Police
reported. The Occupational
Safety and Environmental
Health Office was notified.


CORRECTIONS
concert 0 An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Univer-
WHAT: A concert featuring sity alum Kang will be one of
performances of Schubert's Obama's closest assistants)
Symphony No. 8 "Unfinished" misidentified the president
and Shostakovich's Symphony of Oberlin College. His
No.12.
No. 12.name is Marvin Krislov.
WHO: University Philharmo- Pae rpt K ror
nia Orchestra Please report any error
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. the Daily to correc-
WHERE: Hill Auditorium tions@michigandaily.com.

*1

M NIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

WHAT DO
IHODESIMARSHALL/MITCHEJ4L
SCHOLARS
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
Well, this guy became
' president.

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

Muhammed Serdah, left, holds his son Ahmad, 7, who was allegedly wounded in the eye when the Israeli armyfired a missile at a
Palestinian militant riding his motorcycle in Khan Younis, southern Gaza Strip yesterday.
Roadside bomb, airstrikes
undermine Gaza truce

William Jetterson Clinton, President of
the United States of America, 1992-2000

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Koessler Room, Michigan League
Thursday, January 29, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons Center Room
Thursday, February 5, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union

Bomb kills soldier,
Israel counters with
airstrike
JERUSALEM (AP) - A Palestin-
ian roadside bomb killed an Israeli
soldier patrolling the border with
Gaza yesterday, and Israel respond-
ed with an airstrike that wounded a
Hamas militant in a flare-up of vio-
lence that undermined a cease-fire
on the eve of a visit by the new U.S.
Mideast envoy.
Israel briefly sent tanks and bull-
dozers across the border into Gaza
after its soldier was killed and three
others were wounded in the bomb-
ing. Hamas said the Israeli airstrike
wounded one of its militants as he
rode a motorcycle in the southern
Gaza town of Khan Your'is.
It was the worst bloodshed since
the sides declared the cease-fire on
Jan. 18 to end a three-week Israeli
offensive. Since withdrawing its
troops, Israel has threatened to
retaliate hard for any violations of
the informal truce.
"We will respond, but there is no
point inelaborating," Israeli Defense
Minister Ehud Barak said during a
trip to a military base in southern
Israel. Later, he convened an emer-
gency meeting of top security offi-

cials. He spoke with Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert after the meeting, but
no details were released.
Olmert later hinted that a much
tougher response could soon follow,
telling a gathering of senior civil
servants that Israel is not bound by
any formal cease-fire with Hamas.
"Israel's response has yet to come,"
he said.
There was no immediate claim
of responsibility for the bombing,
but Ramattan, a Palestinian news
agency, later released a video of the
roadside bombing allegedly filmed
by militants it did not identify.
The video showed a large explo-
sion next to a jeep moving on the
Israeli side of the border fence. A
huge plume of smoke emerges as
the jeep stops. Two Israeli soldiers
are then seen running toward the
jeep, and gunfire is directed at
them before a secondary blast hits
them, too.
Mushir al-Masri, a Hamas law-
maker, said Israel was to blame for
continuingtofire intoGaza.Al-Mas-
ri said his group had not agreed to a
full cease-fire but only to a "lull" in
fighting. "The Zionists are respon-
sible for any aggression," he said.
After yesterday's blast, heavy
gunfire was heard along the bor-
der in central Gaza, and hovering
Israeli helicopters fired machine

gun bursts, Palestinian witnesses
said.An Israeli jetset off aloud sonic
boom over Gaza City not long after-
ward, possibly as a warning.
Palestinian residents said Israeli
tanks and bulldozers also entered
the area where the roadside bomb-
ing took place and were tearing up
some vacant land - apparently to
prevent it from being used to stage
attacks.
'Not long after the bombing, a
27-year-old Gaza farmer was killed
by Israeli gunfire along the bor-
der several miles away, Palestinian
medical officials said. The military
had no comment, and it was unclear
if the two incidents were related.
The violence cast a shadow over
the arrival of George Mitchell, Pres-
ident Barack Obama's special Mid-
eastenvoy. Mitchell arrived inEgypt
on Tuesday and was set to visitIsrael
onWednesday for three daysoftalks
with Israeli and Palestinian leaders
on how to get stalled peace efforts
back on track. Mitchell is expected
to meet Olmert, top security offi-
cials, and the pro-Western Palestin-
ian president, Mahmoud Abbas.
Mitchell has no plans to meet
with Hamas, which the U.S., Isra-
el and European Union consider
a terrorist group. Hamas seized
Gaza from forces loyal to Abbas in
June 2007.

4

To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

4.



The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

Wednesday, January 28, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 28, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
ATLANTA
Food inspectors
didn't consider
salmonella a threat
Food regulators didn't consider
salmonella a threat to most pea-
nut products before they traced an
outbreak to a peanut butter plant in
Georgia two years ago. Officials in
the nation's top peanut-producing
state promptly began checking for
the bacteria during routine inspec-
tions, and everything went fine for
about a year.
+ Then this month, investigators
zeroed in on another Georgia plant
while probing a second bout of sal-
monella that began in the fall and
has sickened some 500 people in 43
states, and may have contributed to
at least eight deaths.
As health officials scramble to
limit the effects of the latest out-
break, food safety advocates have
renewed calls for increased test-
ing at peanut processing plants.
It's a costly and time-consuming
proposition for an inspection pro-
cess that, as an Associated Press
review of state and federal proce-
dures shows, already suffers from
a lack of manpower and transpar-
ency, and from uncertainty over
how much testing is enough.
LANSING
State senate panel
votes to lower
business tax
Michigan Republicans are again
trying to repeal a 22 percent sur-
charge added to the state's main
business tax to help resolve a bud-
get crisis 14 months ago.
The Senate Finance Committee
voted along party lines Tuesday to
send a business tax cut to the full
Senate. The GOP-led chamber may
vote as early as Wednesday.
Similar legislation approved last
year died in the Democratic-con-
trolled House. The new measure
again faces tough odds because the
state is confronting a big deficit in
the next budget.
Gov. Jennifer Granholm has
been open to reducing the Michi-
gan Business Tax in exchange for
cuts in prison spending.
WASHINGTON
Bill Clinton made
millions from
foreign sources
Former President Bill Clinton
earned nearly $6 million in speak-
ing fees last year, almost all of it
from foreign companies, accord-
ing to financial documents filed by
his wife, Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton.
The documents obtained yester-
day by The Associated Press show
that $4.6 million of the former presi-
dent's reported $5.7 million in 2008
honoraria came from foreign sourc-
es, including Kuwait's national bank,

other firms and groups in Canada,
Germany, India, Malaysia, Mexico
andPortugalandaHongKong-based
company that spent $100,000 on fed-
eral lobbyinglastyear.
Executives at many of the firms
that paid honoraria to Bill Clinton
have also donated large amounts of
money to the Clinton Foundation,
according to documents it released
last year as part of an agreement
A with Congress on Hillary Clinton's
nomination as secretary of state.
NEW YORK
John Updike, prize-
winning writer
dead at age 76
John Updike, the Pulitzer
Prize-winning novelist, prolific
man of letters and erudite chroni-
cler of sex, divorce and other
adventures in the postwar prime
of the American empire, died yes-
terday at age 76.
Updike, best known for his four
"Rabbit" novels, died of lung can-
cer at a hospice near his home in
Beverly Farms, Mass., according to
his longtime publisher, Alfred A.
Knopf.
A literary writer who frequently
appeared on best-seller lists, the
tall, hawk-nosed Updike wrote nov-
els, short stories, poems, criticism,
the memoir "Self-Consciousness"
and even a famous essay about
baseball great Ted Williams.
He released more than 50 books
in a career that started in the
1950s, winning virtually every lit-
erary prize, including two Pulit-
zers, for "Rabbit Is Rich" and
"Rabbit at Rest," and two National
Book Awards.
Compiled from
Gaily wire reports

Obama looks to GOP for compromise

President asks
Republicans to work
together for job
creation, stimulus
WASHINGTON (AP) - On
the eve of a key vote, President
Barack Obama privately promised
Republican critics he stands ready
to accept changes in $825 billion
economic stimulus legislation, and
urged lawmakers to "put politics
aside" in the interest of creating
badly needed jobs.
"The American people expect
action," Obama said Tuesday as
he shuttled between closed-door
meetings with House and Senate
Republicans on atrip to the Capitol
that blended substance with politi-
cal symbolism.
Republicans who attended the
sessions said the president did not
agree to any specific changes but

did pledge to have his aides consid-
er some that GOP lawmakers raised
dealing with additional tax relief
for businesses.
Prodded to budge on another
point, Obama said that despite
Republican opposition, he will
insist on giving relief to wage-
earners who pay Social Security
taxes but do not earn enough to owe
income tax.
In a measure of the complicated
political dynamic in Congress, one
Republican quoted the president as
saying any changes would have to
come after the House gives what
is expected to be largely party-
line approval Wednesday to the
Democratic-backed bill. The mea-
sure includes about $550 billion in
spending and roughly $275 billion
in tax cuts.
The Senate shows signs of greater
bipartisanship, including a deci-
sion in the Finance Committee on
Tuesday to add a new tax break for
upper middle-income taxpayers, at

a two-year cost of $70 billion. It was
advanced by Sen. Chuck Grassley of
Iowa, the panel's senior Republican.
Democratic leaders in both
houses have promised to have
legislation ready for Obama's sig-
nature by mid-February, and Tues-
day's developments coincided with
fresh evidence of deterioration in a
national economy seemingly grow-
ing weaker bythe day.
Housing prices tumbled by the
sharpest annual rate on record in
November, according to a closely
watched private report released
during the day, and a measure of
consumer confidence dropped to a
historic low.
Separately, the Treasury Depart-
ment announced distribution of
$386 million to 23 troubled banks,
the first awards from the federal
bailout fund since Obama took
office a week ago.
Obama traveled to and from
the Capitol in a snowy motorcade
on Tuesday, far different from the

inaugural parade seven days earlier.
This was a business trip, marking
his second reach across party lines
in as many days in keeping with a
pledge to seek bipartisan solutions
to major problems.
On Monday, he leaned on House
Democrats to jettison an item that
would make it easier for states to
provide family planning funds for
the poor under Medicaid, a pro-
vision in the legislation that had
become a target of ridicule for
Republicans. Press Secretary Rob-
ert Gibbs said Obama supports the
concept but wants it included in a
different bill.
Ironically; Democrats said delet-
ing the provision would wind up
increasing federalspending, since it
probably would mean more money
spent on higher pregnancy and
post-natal care. -
House Republican leaders wel-
comed the president a few hours
after urging their rank-and-file to
oppose the stimulus bill, and it was

far from clearthat Obama had man-
aged to pick up any GOP support
during the day.
Gibbs said the White House
expects some GOP lawmakers will
vote for the measure on Wednes-
day in the House, and indicated he
hopes there willbe more in the Sen-
ate and even more later when a final
compromise is reached.
One Republican senator, speak-
ing on condition of anonymity,
said the president pledged to Sen.
John Ensign, R-Nev., to have aides
reviev two specific proposals. One
would affect businesses that pay
down their debt. The other would
provide a temporary tax holiday for
companies that have money over-
seas and bring it back to the United
States to invest.
Obama ventured into an uncer-
tain political environment when he
stepped intothe Capitol, apresident
with high approval ratings pitching
a plan that also has been favorably
received in the polls.

I

U.S. economic
mood darkens

One of Gov. Rod Blagojevich's quotes is displayed as evidence during the second day of his impeachment trial in the Illinois
senate in Springfield, Ill. on Tuesday, Jan. 27, 2009.
FBI tapes played for jurors.
during Blagoj evich trial

Tapes document Ill.
Gov. demands for
money in exchange
for signing bills
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) -
Gov. Rod Blagojevich was hun-
dreds of miles away but his voice
boomed through the Illinois Sen-
ate's chambers yesterday as his
impeachment jurors listened to
FBI wiretaps of conversations in
which he seems to demand cam-
paign contributions in exchange
for signing legislation.
One person on the recordings
assures Blagojevich that a horse-
racing track owner "is good for
it" and just has to decide "what
accounts to get it out of." Anoth-
er assures him the track owner
knows he must keep his "com-
mitment" soon.
Blagojevich replies with com-
ments like "good" and "good
job." Legislation sought by the
racing industry had been sent to
the governor's desk, and on the

tapes, he says to reassure a rac-
ing lobbyist he hopes "to do this
so we can get together and start
picking some dates to do a bill-
signing."
Senators conducting the trial,
which Blagojevich is boycot-
ting though it could remove him
from office within days, listened
intently as the fuzzy, indistinct
conversations echoed through
the room - the heating system,
reporters typing on laptops and
the occasional cough accounting
for the only other noise.
Neither the governor nor the
others on the call - the gover-
nor's brother and chief fund-
raiser Robert Blagojevich and
former chief of staff Lon Monk,
officials say - specifically men-
tions money or any amounts.
Thegovernor was arrested last
month on a variety of corruption
charges, including scheming to
benefit from appointing Presi-
dent Barack Obama's U.S. Sen-
ate replacement and demanding
campaign contributions in
exchange for state services. He
denies any wrongdoing and nei-

ther his brother nor Monk has
been c rged.
Before the tapes were played
Tuesday, an FBI agent vouched
for the accuracy of those and
other Blagojevich quotes that
were included the federal crimi-
nal complaint against him.
Again and again, agent Daniel
Cain told state senators he had
accurately quoted Blagojevich in
a sworn affidavit filed when the
governor was arrested. At each
stage, House prosecutor David
Ellis displayed the most damn-
ing quote on a poster board.
' The affidavit quoted
Blagojevich saying his power to-
name a replacement to Obama's
vacant Senate seat was a "valu-
able thing, you just don't give it
away for nothing." Ellis asked
if that was accurate. Yes, Cain
replied.
As Blagojevich's private words
took center stage in Springfield,
the governor remained in New
York for the second day of a
media tour focused on portray-
ing the impeachment as unfair
and politically motivated.

Consumer The gloomy news initially sent
the Dow Jones industrial average
confidence down 50 lower, but by mid-afternoon it took
heart from some positive earn-
points, hits record low ings reports, finishing up about 58
points at 8,174.
NEW YORK (AP) - This is one President Barack Obama and
recession Americans aren't going to Congress are scrambling to enact
spend their way out of. a $825 billion package of increased
The Conference Board said yes- federal spending, including money
terday its Consumer Confidence for big public works projects and for
Index edged down to 37.7 this states, as well as tax cuts to revive
month, a record low, from a revised the economy.
38.6 in December. It stood at about That could encourage Ameri-
87 just a year ago. cans to spend more, but Baumohl
Americans are battered by head- believes the relief would be only
lines about massive job cuts, includ- temporary unless financial insti-
ing thousands at Home Depot, tutions become healthy enough to
Corning, General Motors and Cat- revive lending. Tighter credit has
erpillar in just the past two days,. been a challenge for shoppers and
and are still watching the values of businesses alike.
their homes and retirement funds Feder-al Reserve p6licrnakers
'dwindle. are gathering this week to exam-
"Virtually, there is no confi- ine what other tools they-can use
dence out there," said Bernard to help ease a recession that start-
7iauiiiT,-chief g o al eonsrmist ed in December 2007. They are all
at The Economic Outlook Group but certain to leave the benchmark
LLC. "Household anxiety has interest rate at its current record
reached a point that we can count low.
them out to get us out of the reces- But without the help of consumer
sion." spending, which accounts for more
Economists believe Americans than two-thirds of economic activ-
will remain in a financial funk ity, the economy faces a slow recov-
until they start seeing fundamen- ery. In past recessions, consumers
tal improvements in the economy, had helped the economy dig itself
includingaturnaround inthe hous- out of its funk.
ing and job markets. And two other Americans"arefeelingextreme-
reports Tuesday suggested that's ly bad about jobs - both current
unlikely to come soon. and expected," said Lynn Franco,
The Labor Department director of The Conference Board
announced that state unemploy- Consumer Research Center.
ment rates shot up nationwide The Conference Board survey
in December, with Indiana and showed fewer people expect to get
South Carolina racking up the raises over the next few months, or
largest monthly increases. South for jobs to be plentiful.
Carolina's jobless rate bolted to 9.5 Nationally, the unemployment
percent, more than 2 percentage rate, which stands at a 16-year
points above the national rate. high of 7.2 percent, could hit 10
And the Standard & Poor's/ percent or more later this year or
Case-Shiller 20-city housing early next year, according to some
index dropped by a record 18.2 analysts' estimates. Michigan and
percent in November from the Rhode island already had unem-
same month a year earlier - the ployment rates in double digits
sharpest annual rate since the last month. And the pink' slips
index's inception in 2000. keep coming.
Gates: U.S. missile
strikes to continue
in1 Pakistan

Citigroup won't buy new
jet after $45B gov't bailout

Pressure from
politicians leads
bank to reject plane
NEW YORK (AP) - Citigroup
won't be getting a new corporate
jet after all.
Under pressure from President
Barack Obama, one of the nation's
largest banks reversed course,
announcing that it will not take
delivery of the jet it had planned
to purchase before the credit cri-
sis unfolded.
The canceled deal came as
many politicians voiced concern
about how banks are spending
government bailout money.
The White House reached
out to Citigroup on Monday to
reiterate Obama's position that
such jets are not "the best use of
money at this point," calling them
"outrageous" spending for a com-
pany getting taxpayer dollars,
said a White House official who
spoke on condition of anonymity
because the official was describ-
ing private conversations.
In a statement late Mon-
day, Citigroup Inc. said it paid a
deposit in 2005 to acquire the jet.
The New York-based bank said jt

did not plan to use government
money for the purchase, and it
noted that any cancellation of the
deal would probably lead to mul-
timillion-dollar penalties.
On Monday, the New York Post
reported that Citi was set to take
possession of the jet even after
receiving $45 billion from the
government.
The government is also provid-
ing guarantees on hundreds of
billions of dollars of Citi invest-
ments in mortgages and other
troubled investments.
With the cancellation of the jet
deal, a deposit on the plane will
be lost, but is recoverable once the
jet is sold, according to a person
familiar with the situation. Citi
was in the process of purchasing
a Dassault Falcon 7X for $50 mil-
lion, the person said.
Citi is also planning to cut
the number of corporate jets
in its existing fleet from five to
two, said the person, who also
spoke on condition of anonymity
because the details have not been
made public.
Corporate jets have become
controversial during the credit
crisis as critics of large companies
question the cost of owning and
operating the aircraft especially

for businesses receiving govern-
ment help.
In November, executives of
automakers Ford Motor Co., Gen-
eral Motors Corp. and Chrysler
LLC were sharply criticized for
flying on corporate jets to Wash-
ington to ask Congress for federal
bailout money.
Amid the credit woes, Citi
has been working to streamline
its operations and shed assets to
regain profitability. The bank has
posted five consecutive quarterly
losses, including a fourth-quarter
loss of $8.29 billion.
Earlier thismonth,Citireached
a deal to sell a majority stake in
its Smith Barney brokerage unit
to Morgan Stanley. xCiti has also
announced plans to split its oper-
ations into two units, separating
its traditional banking businesses
from its riskier operations.
Citi may have to wait a while
to recover its deposit on the can-
celed jet deal, as the market for
corporate aircraft has softened
with the economy.
Before the jet market cooled
last year, speculators sometimes
placed orders with no intention
of taking delivery of the plane.
They would sell their position
in line. ;

22 people killed
in attacks last week
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama is retaining a
powerful but controversial weapon
left over from the Bush administra-
tion's war on terror: Predator mis-
sile strikes on Pakistan.
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
signaled to senators yesterday that
missile strikes will continue. He
did not directly refer to the Preda-
tor hunt-and-kill dronwe program
but said the U.S. would continue to
strike at al-Qaida inside Pakistan
along its border with Afghanistan.
But senior Obama administra-
tion and Capitol Hill officials say
the Predator strikes are effective,
and there is no plan to discontinue
the program.
The Predator attacks have
strained U.S. relations with Paki-
stan, which has urged Obama to
halt them.
Pakistan was struck last week
by missiles that killed at least 22
people. The strike was part of a
continuing wav of more than 30

missile attacks since August.
In testimony Tuesday to the
Senate Armed Services Commit-
tee, Gates said Obama and former
President George W. Bush were
twinned in their efforts to pursue
al-Qaida.
"Both President Bush and Presi-
dent Obama have made clear that
we will go after al-Qaida wherever
al-Qaida is, and we will continue to
pursue them," Gates said.
"Has that decision been trans-
mitted to the 'Pakistan govern-
ment?" the panel's chairman, Sen.
Carl Levin, D-Mich., ssked.
"Yes, sir," Gates responded.
The U.S. rarely acknowledges
such missile strikes, at least some
of which are carried out with
unmanned Predator drones, used
by the Pentagon and CIA to hunt
down and kill terrorists.
A senior Obama administration
official told The Associated Press
that the Predator program would
remain, saying simply: "It works."
The comments were made on con-
dition of anonymity because the
official was not authorized to dis-
cussihe program publicly.


4A - Wednesday, January 28, 2009


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

be* Midian iail


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Hi Friends, I wanted you all to be among the first
to know that I've launched my new
political action committee, SarahPAC."
- posted by former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin on her Facebook account, announcing
the creation of a committee to remain a player in national politics, as reported yesterday by CNN.

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position ofnthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofntheir authors.
Technology overhaul
'U' and state would benefit from G.G. Brown renovations
T ucked away on North Campus, the G.G. Brown Laboratory
Building is in desperate need of a renovation. As a result
of its outdated resources, the Mechanical Engineering
Department, which resides in the building, has been unable to add
facilities and equipment to keep up with rapid advances in the field.
Thankfully, a new proposal to renovate the building would allow
the Mechanical Engineering Department to remain competitive
with programs at other universities. And the renovations aren't
just helpful for the University. The state would also reap the bene-
fits of a program that turns out highly skilled workers and attracts
the brightest scientific minds and newest research to Michigan,
giving our struggling state a much-needed economic boost.

ROSE JAFFE

E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU


7 _ __ _17
-Feo C+o' Fe 'w.'r
IA \\\ ;',C ) "j" 1 1 / il
iji?07-/

- i

n41 1

The G.G. Brown Laboratories house the
Mechanical Engineering Department,
which is consistently ranked within the top
five programs of its kind in the country in
both undergraduate and graduate studies.
The $11t million proposal to renovate the
building, submitted to the state as a part of
the University's capital outlay request for the
2010 fiscal year, would create new research
facilities for bio and nano-technologies. It
would also include general renovations like
more student-friendly classrooms. Typi-
cally, the state funds about 75 percent of
such a project, while the University picks up
the other 25 percent of the cost. But more of
the project's costs will fall to the University,
according to its expectations.
Even if the state is unable to contribute the
typical amount, the University must ensure
that this project is brought to fruition. For
the University, it's critical that the depart-
ment maintains its edge. A building that is
equipped to expose students to the future
technologies is more attractive to potential
students. Churning out the best students
trained in the most rapidly advancing fields
increases the employability of its gradu-
ates and the marketability of the program.
Advanced, cutting edge training for Michi-
gan's engineers is more important than ever,
as employment in the auto industry becomes

less and less realistic.
But keeping mechanical engineers up-to-
date with technology is in the state's best
interest as well, because projects like this
are an investment in the future of the state's
economy. With the auto industry suffering,
the state desperately needs engineers who
are equipped with the best training. A better
building goes a long way toward attracting
the best in the field to the University, which
in turn benefits the state in the long run, in
the same way that purchasing the former
Pfizer Inc. campus and expanding stem cell
research does.
At the same time, it would be overly
optimistic to presume that the proposal
could be approved unless the University is
willing to foot a greater percentage of the
project's cost, especially since a similar
proposal submitted to the state last year
was rejected for obvious financial reasons.
Luckily, the University seems aware that it
needs to be flexible in the current econom-
ic environment.
For the benefits that renovating the G. G.
Brown Laboratory Building are goingto pro-
vide, $110 million is a reasonable sum to pay.
It is necessary that the state and the Univer-
sity work together to finda solution for fund-
ing the project and facilitating the building's
long overdue renovations.

Bill Nye's got nothing, on us

Hello and welcome to Science
Solutions,theguide designed
to help those students who
have chosen class-
es in which effort,
persistence and
enthusiasm can
result in ulcers.
Just kidding! We
at Science Solu-
tions recognize the
importance of the
sciences in every- WILL
day life; without
calculus, it would GRUNDLER
be impossible to
determine the
number of people who attend Michi-
gan Football games.
Therefore, we encourage readers
struggling with math, biology, astron-
omy, chemistry, etc., to submit ques-
tions (as long as they don't contain
numbers), and we will do our best to
provide accurate responses.
Only first names will be published
so as to avoid embarrassment. As Ein-
stein once said, "There are no stupid
answers, only stupid questions, even
if the people involved are traveling at
the speed of light."
With those-inspiring words, let us
begin.
Our first question is from Steven, a
freshperson, who asks: "I'm in Math
115 and I have two stomach ulcers.
Anyway, one of my homework ques-
tions is about heating a cold yam and
finding an equation or something, so
my question is, what is a yam and/or
an equation?"
SS: Heating a cold yam is a prob-
lem that befuddles many students. In
order to analyze the question effec-
tively, it must be noted that a yam is
a unique species of Antarctic penguin
whose meat is considered a delicacy
among polar scientists. Ergo, it should
make sense that we want to heat the
yam (it is best served heated). We
hope this answers your question. And

an "equation" is simply the Latin form
of equinox, the point in time when the
Sun is located directly above Antarc-
tica.
Our next question comes from Alli-
son, a sophomore, who says: "I also
have a math question that concerns
animals. I was taking a test and one
of the problems asked us to model 'a
population of deer (a large mammal).'
Shouldn't it read 'a population of deer
(a small to medium-sized mammal)'?
I would consider a bear or a moose to
be a large mammal, but not a deer."
SS: A deer is a type of vegetable.
Eric, a freshperson who can bench
210 pounds, sends us this: "So in my
astronomy class, we talked about the
speed of light, and my GSI said light
was so fast it could circle the Earth
seven times in one second! I don't-
think that's possible. It's not faster
than the Internet, is it?"
SS: We agree with you entirely. For
instance, imagine this, scenario, or
"thought experiment": When some-
one turns a light bulb on in Australia,
does it race around the globe at a zil-
lion miles an hour and appear in your
vision? Of course not. But can you
receive an e-mail from down under?
Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Lin,
a senior: "I'm currently enrolled in a
course about coral reefs. My professor
is very nice, funny and knowledge-
able, but he wears sandals. Is he a real
scientist?"
SS: Is that aserious question?You're
asking us to base a man's credibility,
his reputation and perhaps even his
life on his footwear?
That's absurd. As anyone will tell
you, the way to determine if a person
is a scientist is whether or not they're
wearing glasses.
Lin: "What does that have to do
with anything?"
SS: One question per person.
Alan, a sophomore, asks: "Is there
any point in studying for a physics

test? One time I studied for hours and
scored a 31 percent before the curve;
another time I didn't study at all and
got an 88 percent!"
SS: Your experience is a classic case
of the Uncertainty Principle, a law
created by the great Werner Heisen-
berg. In his usual eloquent fashion,
Heisenberg states: "The Universe is
crazy, man. I mean, supposedly intel-
ligent, carbon-based life forms have
been heating cold yams for thousands
of years. Don't expect anything to be
certain." We hope this answers your
question, though we can't be sure.
Answers to those
ulcer-creating
questions.
Our next question is from Burt, a
junior, who wants to know: "How did
whales evolve from wolves? It's the
craziest thing I've ever heard in my
biology class!"
SS: What a stimulating question!
If we do a bit of detective work, we
find that the Old English word whalve
(wolf), from the Latin wharwhalv
(hairy), connoted an evil presence,
the kind that eats humans. Conse-
quently, early English mariners, upon
seeing the mighty whales for the first
time, cried out "Whalve! Whalve!" To
a passing schooner, the wind made
"whalve!" soundlikewhal,or"whale,"
and the rest is history.
Our last question is Gale, agraduate
student, who asks: "Have you taken
any science courses whatsoever?"
SS: Of course not. We don't want
ulcers.
Will Grundler can be reached
at sailgull@umich.edu.

f

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Shannon Kellman,
Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
JONATHAN SLEMROD I
Cap-and-trade fantasies

4

During his presidential campaign, Barack
Obama made many promises to clean up the
environment. One of his proposals, which has
been favored by other environmental activists,
was to establish a cap-and-trade program. This
would give the government the right to regulate
greenhouse gases through a system of emissions
trading. Under the plan, the government will
give businesses credits that specify how many
tons of pollutants - like carbon dioxide - they
are allowed to emit. Businesses are permitted to
then sell or trade any excess credits. With this
plan in mind, Obama promises to "solve" global
warming by reducing greenhouse gas emissions
80 percent by the year 2050. That prospect may
sound great, but it's not as realistic as Obama
hdpes and will likely do major damage to our
already-limping economy.
The government's history of attempting to
regulate emissions is long and harrowed. Last
summer, Senators Joe Lieberman (I-Conn) and
John Warner (R-Va.) introduced the Climate
Security Act, a cap-and-trade proposal that was
the strongest global warming bill to ever make
it to the Senate floor. By 2050, the act aimed for
emissions to be 70 percent lower than 2005 lev-
els. The Senate held a lengthy debate on the bill
but it ultimately fell 12 votes short of advancing.
But last summer's debate over the cap-and-trade
bill was merely a litmus test. With Obama at the
helm, a new, stronger cap-and-trade bill will
inevitably resurface.
Obama probably won't be able to rely on a uni-
fied Democratic Party to help his cause. During
the debate on the Lieberman-Warner Climate
Security Act, ten Democratic Senators from
the Midwest - including Michigan's own Carl
Levin and Debbie Stabenow - sent a letter to
their colleagues voicing concerns over the effect
of a cap-and-trade on the manufacturing bases
in their respective states. And their concerns
were legitimate. A swift overhaul of the govern-
ment's climate control regulations could nega-
tively affectbusinesses that will have to struggle
to meet them.
And consumers will alsobenegatively affected.
The Environmental Protection Agency estimated
that the Climate Security Act would reduce the
gross domestic product by 0.9 percent to 3.8 per-
cent in 2030, and 2.4 percent to 6.9 percent in
2050. The EPA also predicts steep increases in
electricity and gas prices with the scheme, which

would negatively affect almost every corner of
our economy. Higher energy costs will be passed
directly onto consumers, and that includes any-
one who pays an electric bill.
One group that will benefit from a cap-and-
trade system is politicians. As lobbyists push for
more credits for the companies they represent,
politicians will reap the benefits of their favors.
Thinkingthatthe politicsofcap-and-trade would
work any other way in Washington is nothing
more than a dream. If transparency and account-
ability were major concerns of Congress, they
would support a simpler carbon tax, one which
would charge polluters a dollar amount per ton of
carbon emitted, and one that would avoid a mas-
sive expansion of bureaucracy in the process. But
don't hold your breath for such a solution to come
to fruition - politicians enjoy the clout they will
have in determining who gets carbon credits.
But if Congress waits too long to approve a
cap-and-trade system, Obama will be able to
allow Carol Browner, his newly-minted ener-
gy czar, to move towards regulating "danger-
ous pollutants" like carbon dioxide under the
already existing Clean Air Act. If this happens,
the government could regulate emissions on
everything from schools to lawnmowers, caus-
ing an enormous financial burden on business
and killing jobs. Worst of all, backdoor EPA reg-
ulation would skirt the Congressional debate on
global warming where both sides of the debate
can state their cases.
For anyone interested in continuing the debate,
the College Libertarians and Young Americans
for Freedom are hosting a lecture on February 3
by Patrick Michaels, a professor ofenvironmental
sciences at the University of Virginia and Senior
Fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C.
Michaels will present a viewpoint you might not
hear elsewhere - that global warming is modest
and by no means a crisis that merits such massive
government involvement in its solution.
As Obama and Congress move toward expand-
ing government in the name of preventing global
warming, it is crucial that all sides of the scientif-
ic and policy communities are represented. This
event is a great place to start, and skeptics are
welcome.
Jonathan Slemrod is an LSA junior
and the co-chair of the University
chapter of College Libertarians.


SUTHA KANAGASINGAMJI

4

The criminal implications, of DNA

The law enforcement process used to consist of obtain-
ing a warrant, cornering the suspect and putting them in
a cell. After that came the trial and the conviction. But
starting July 1 of this year, there will be an added proce-
dure in Michigan - automatically obtaining the arrested
person's DNA.
Later this year, people who are arrested for crimes like'
murder, assault and robbery will immediately have the
insides of their cheeks swabbed and their DNA recorded
in a national database. It will then be analyzed to see
if there is a possible match for a previous crime. Under
Michigan's previous law, only the DNA of convicted crim-
inals was put into the database. Laws that require any,
person arrested for a violent crime to submit their DNA
are already in effect in several U.S. states.
Proponents of the legislation argue that this will be
a useful tool for law enforcement agencies to solve cold
cases. In some cases, the DNA could prove convicted indi-
viduals innocent. These are worthy goals, but a simple
cost-benefit analysis shows that the problems accompa-
nyingthis legislation outweigh its proposed benefits.
To begin with, this isn't a very effective use of the
state's money. The new legislation will cost the state $1
million to staff crime labs. Right now, the state could do
better by spending its money on more pressing needs.
for example, a state legislature committee on spending
recently suggested that the state cut financial aid and
scholarship funding to the University. The state should
be cutting down where it can to protect the quality of
higher education, which will determine the direction of
the state's economy as its automotive and manufacturing-
based market fails. A procedure that potentially infring-
es on the civil rights of citizens certainly isn't pressing

enough to outweigh the needs of higher education and
benefits that it provides for the state's economy.
Opponents of the bill have also argued that this legisla-
tion may constitute a breach of civil liberties. And they're
right - people who are arrested are now being labeled as
criminals instantly, without being given the presumption
of innocence that is vital to our legal system. This could
potentially start a new type of discrimination where
employers request DNA samples from applicants.
And, even for people who are never charged with a
crime, a close DNA match could be enough to condemn
them. Employers might argue that because a family mem-
ber is a criminal, a potential employee is not fit for hiring.
That may seem like a long shot, but it's not impossible.
The noble aim of solving cold cases may not even be all
that feasible. As it turns out, it's been reported that some
victims from unsolved cases are unwilling to partake
in any follow up investigations. USA Today pointed out
that reopening cases "can awaken frightening memories,
some decades old, in victims and their families" (Push to
solve cold cases has benefits - and costs, 12/23/2008). The
report also notes that even when victims are willing to
testify, prosecution is not possible if the statute of limi-
tations for filing charges has expired. So even if a victim
wants to prosecute based on DNA evidence, it sometimes
isn't possible.
It's true that this new legislation could be a benefit in
some cases, but the problems it raises are plentiful than
the potential good it could do. It's expensive, and more
importantly, it sticks people with a label who may not
have done anything wrong.
Sutha Kanagasingam is an LSA junior.

4
1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 28, 2009 - 5A

An album too
cool for you to
understand

COURTESY OF DREAMWORKS
The original Enzyte ad.
A tedio Revolutio

By SARAH CHAVEY
Daily Arts Writer
Buying single tracks for only 99
cents on iTunes
is a temptation
that gets the best
of us all from Franz
time to time, but
Tonight: Franz Ferdinand
Ferdinand is a Tonight: Franz
shining example Ferdinand
of an album best
listened to from Domino
start to finish.
As a whole, it paints a picture of
love lost, loss remorsed, revenge
relished and love re-discovered,
carving out a complete thematic
circle. The songs aren't as singu-
lar as past material like "Take Me
Out" or "Do You Want To," and the
album takes Franz in a fresh direc-
tion, updating their familiar pulse
of sonic energy with a coolly sin-
ister edge.
Leadoffsingle and album-open-
er "Ulysses" introduces the deca-
dently gritty sound that prevails
throughout the disc. Its heavy
beat and minor chords mix with
Alex Kapranos's vocals - a blend
of arrogance, aggression and cool
-as he snarls lyrics like, "So sin-
ister but last night was wild." Gut-
tural "ha ha ha"-packed choruses
create a perfect barroom ambi-
ance. The song is straight from
a '90s neo-noir movie, evoking
imagesofmysterious andtortured
characters in smoky, impious bars
slamming down beverages resem-
bling gasoline.
"Send Him Away" grooves with
Stevie Wonder-esque keyboard
vamps and pulses with not-so-
subtle sexual undertones. "Live
Alone" keeps the energy high with
icy, computerized ornamenta-
tion that comes off as more Talk-
ing Heads than "Mario Kart." But
the lyrics are a bit of a buzz-kill as
Kapranos whines, "Wherever you
are / you know that I'll be here
wishing I could be there." At this
point in the movie, cool boy is sit-
ting at the bar wallowing in love-
sick sorrow.
The mushy solemnity doesn't
last long. By "Bite Hard," the
denial phase is but a lingering
memory and Tonight's hero is
out for revenge. A balladic begin-
ning gives way to resolute drum
kicks that beg the listener to
find someone to get angry with.
And what better way to follow
the vengeful pump-up song than
spiteful I'm-better-off-without-
you anthem "What She Came
For"? The venting session warns
of a man-eating, hard-ass chick

that's out for blood, culminat-
ing in a mosh pit-inducing finale
of manic drums, cymbal crashes
and power chords.
"Lucid Dreams" lowers the
intensity level, numbing the anger
with a quality "trip-out" session
and doing away with Kapranos's
usual clipped and cool vocal style
for a more legato feel. The eight-
minute acid trip peaks with an
instrumental break at the five-
minute mark. A raw vibe oozes
from the entire track, perpetuated
by abrasive distortion.
The seductively sinister
album winds down to a chill
and dreamy end with the last
two tracks, "Dream Again" and
A story of lost
love, angst and
bitterness.
"Katherine Kiss Me." The clos-
ers document the ride home after
a well-rounded night of liquor
and heartache. "Dream Again"
rocks gently, echoing in and out
of focus like the blurred lights on
a dark, wet New York City street.
The haunting tune with a hope-
ful message leads seamlessly
into the stripped-down love song
"Katherine Kiss Me." It features
a much more personal Franz
Ferdinand than ever before. The
simple, honest combo of acous-
tic guitar, occasional piano and
vocals presents a crack in the
armor of cool that most Franz
material shrouds itself in.
Tonight gives you the feeling
that the Brit boys of Franz Ferdi-
nand are way cooler than you are.
To put it simply, they definitely
wouldn't sit with just anybody in
the dining hall. In fact, they prob-
ably wouldn't be there at all, opting
instead to slink in an anonymous
doorway, smoking cigarettes
with faces that read clearly, "you
wouldn't understand."

Even Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet
can't make a film about everyday life exciting
By Emily Boudreau Daily Arts Writer

Who wants to pay $7 to watch
a couple yell at each other? Well,
apparently the Academy does; con-
sidering "Revo-
lutionary Road"
has received
three Oscar Revolutionary
nominations. It
also won a Gold- Road
en Globe. But At Showcase
whether or not and Quality 16
the movie actu-
ally deserves
these accolades
is another matter.
"Revolutionary Road" is the
story of Frank Wheeler (Leon-
ardo DiCaprio, "Body of Lies")
and his wife April (Kate Winslet,
"The Reader"). The couple has
just moved into a quaint suburban
house during the 1950s suburbia
rush. Frank works in New York

City and April raises their two
children and does chores around
the house.
Despite its superficial sheen, life
really isn't so great for the Wheel-
ers: Frank hates his job, the mar-
riage has fizzled and both Frank
and April feel "hopeless empti-
ness" in their existences. Trying
to make their lives special again,
April and Frank make plans for the
family to move to Paris, and, for a
brief moment, their lives are reju-
venated. But, as expected, all their
dreams fall apart in a depressing
downward spiral.
The scenes in "Revolutionary
Road" are as neat and tidy as the
Wheeler's manicured suburban
lawn. Unfortunately, like the sup-
posed lives of those who landscape
so meticulously, the movie is a bit
empty.

Essentially, almost nothing hap-
pens in "Revolutionary Road."
Frank and April get up, go to work,
take out the trash and fight in
scene after scene to tedious effect.
It's also a bit too convenient that
the Wheeler children are out of the
house for the majority of the movie
and none of the neighbors seem
to take notice of the Wheelers'
extreme marital problems. Nobody
ever hears the sound of breaking
glass or impassioned yelling. And
this is supposed to be suburbia -
where everybody knows his or her
neighbor's business.
The only person who does take
notice is John Givings (Michael
Shannon, "Before the Devil Knows
You're Dead"), a neighbor's son
recently released from a mental
institution. He's the only charac-
ter who doesn't blend in with the
film's mass of gray wool suits. He
has an uncanny knack for picking
out the truth and turning it into
something funny. He's unique, -
something that can't be said for
any other character.

DiCaprio and Winslet turn in
excellent performances as immor-
al, boring people. Despite each
actor's on-screen prowess, their
chemistry seems to have faded
since they appeared together in
"Titanic." The few scenes of each
of them on their own, like April
gazing out a window or Frank at a
train station, are the only moments
with real resonance. Neither Frank
nor April is a particularly appealing
character - they are certainly not
the couple anyone would want to
invite over for a dinner party and a
game of bridge - but it's hard not to
feel sorry for them.
"Revolutionary Road" may
be well-crafted and delicate,
but it leaves a bitter aftertaste.
The material is nothing new for
director Sam Mendes ("American
Beauty") and the decaying subur-
ban landscape is far from original.
All the same, there is something
about the harsh "Revolutionary
Road" that manages to captivate
with its brutal portrait of the real-
ities of life.

ARTS IN BRIEF
Film Review
Staining the screen
"Inkheart"
New Line
At Showcase and Quality 16
Seeing memorable fantasy char-
acters like the Flying Monkeys from
"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz"
leap out of the pages of a book and
into reality is a compelling concept.
Unless, of course, it's at the expense
of the audience's intelligence. Such
is the case with "Inkheart," a movie
inspired by a best-selling children's
novel about the quest of Mortimer
Flochart (Brendan Fraser, "The
Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon
Emperor") to find the rare book
"Inkheart," using his unique power
to bring the book's characters to life
with his voice.
The movie's problem is that it
assumes everyone in the theater
lacks basic reasoning skills. Mortim-
er and friends go to the home of the
author of "Inkheart" to obtain a copy
of the original manuscript - why
Mortimer didn't go to the author
earlier in his decade-long search for
the book is a mystery that viewers
are expected to ignore. And in the
film's finale, all the audience discov-
ers is that the entire movie up to that
point was a huge waste of time.
Theonlyslightlyredeemingqual-
ity of the film is its use of CGI. It's
entertaining to see swirling fire and
crazy cyclones, but even the orgy of
special effects featured can't possi-
bly make up for the rest of the films
shortcomings. "Inkheart" is yet
another perfect example of a movie
that should have never left the pages
of a book.
,HANS YADAV

Art & Design puts professors' work on display

By SARA SCHNEIDER
DailyArts Writer
At the School of Art & Design's 5th
Annual Faculty Exhibition, artists stepped
outside their boundaries

to connect with the new
vision and direction of
School of Art & Design
Dean, Bryan Rogers.
"Young faculty inspired
and pushed the old to
approach new ways of
thinking, creating a unique
synergy unlike any other
faculty show," said Mark
Nielsen, director of exhibi-
tions at the Slusser Gallery.

A&D5th
Annual
Faculty
Exhibition
Through
Jan.30
At the Slusser
Galley

The exhibition runs until Jan. 30 in the
Slusser Gallery in the Art and Architecture
Building on North Campus and features 3S
faculty artists and designers. It provides stu-
dent audiences a chance to take a closer look
at the personal work of their professors.
From Jim Cogswell's eight-panel shelf
paper wall display to Heidi Kumao's digital
interpretations of everyday objects to Louis
Marinaro's powerful metaphors displayed
in painted bronze, a single peek inside the
gallery doors reveals a variety of mesmeriz-
ing works that challenge traditional art.
"The artists really pushed themselves into
new spaces this year," Nielsen said.
Cogswell's piece, O Reader, stemmed
from a passage in Italo Calvino's novel "If
On a Winter's Night a Traveler" and past
work with dancer Peter Sparling. The work
transforms each letter into a unique artistic
creation that challenges the idea of textual
reading while using everyday materials like
adhesive shelf paper. The use of common
office items in the piece invites those who
don't normally identify with art into the
creative magic.
Kuiao's Correspondence also uses an

everyday object to create its magic. Through
her digital work, a simple white envelope
enclosed in a glass bell jar acts as multiple
settings and transforms the ordinary into
something remarkable.
Marinaro's Woman with Two Rocks is a
painted bronze sculpture depicting a nude
woman with a brown sack over her head hold-
ing a rock in each hand. The work transcends
the literal interpretations usually associated
with sculpture and manages to express an
inexpressible emotion.
"You know what he is saying but can't
quite articulate it," Neilsen said.
With these three works among a host of
others, the exhibition promises to astound.
Nielsen partially attributes the show's inno-
vative display to the new curriculum and out-
look adopted recently by the School of Art &
Design.
"People reflect the state of the institu-
tion they are a part of," he said. "And with
Bryan Roger's new focus on bringing cre-
ative thinking to every walk of life, the fac-
ulty's works are reflecting this change just
as much as the students."
Teaching since 1990, Jim Cogswell agrees
that the changes within the program are
directly affecting the faculty.
"I think it is impossible to be part of a staff
and not be influenced by the transformations
Aspiring artists can
use this exhibition
as a resource.
occurring within it," Cogswell said. "Art-
ists are like sponges. Whether consciously
or unconsciously, the huge diversity, part
of what the chool is about right now, has

Associate Prof. Heidi Kumaa ouses an envelope to set many scenes in her piece Correspondence

brought a new energy to the show this year."
Even with the show's energy, Cogswell is
not fully convinced that students are taking
advantage of the opportunity.
"I sometimes worry students aren't terri-
bly interested in what we are doing. Not many
students have come up to me to comment on
my piece or any other professor's work," Cog-
swell said. "It is not that I am upset by it, I just
want my students to understand that you are
never doing this alone in the art world. It is
always a conversation."
For growing artists, perhaps it's not always
clear that the work of other artists can direct-
ly and positively influence their work. When
artists emerge into their own projects, it's
often difficult to see the importance gained
from conversing about them with other art-
ists, especially those who are directing their
education.

Despite the perceived lack of student
enthusiasm toward the show, Cogswell loves
the opportunity to see his colleagues' work.
Nielsen also sees the merit in the show as
something special for the staff themselves.
"The show allows faculty to learn from
each other and gain a view into who people
are outside of their A&D teaching world,"
Nielsen said.
Following the program's current empha-
sis on diversity, the 5th Annual Faculty Art
Exhibition offers something for every viewer.
It's a collection of works that show the true
meaning of art, according to Nielsen.
"The best artwork is the stuff that makes
you want to keep looking," Nielsen said.
"Anything can come into it and play a role.
There are no rules. It's all OK and the world
of art, and this year's exhibition shows there
are no boundaries."

41


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Wednesday, January 28, 2009
the michigan daily

[FIED l

PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
automotive ,
2002 BUICK CENTURY - loaded,
80K miles, great shape, all mechanicals
work. $6,200. Call 734-665-3489.
f or rent
060
! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!HALF MONTH FREE!! !!Avail.
Fall 2009!! (Sign up before Jan. 31st
and get one half mo. free on 2 bdrm.
apts.-up to $700 off.)
I & 2 bedroom apts. (can live 2 or 4
people) 715 Church St. & 721 Church
St. - Incredibe location! Across from
East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
parking, heat and water paid by land-
lord, no pets, no smoking. Small man-
agement company with excellent
record of personal service. We provide
first rate service! Lease with a
company that truly cares!
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!2-BED 2-Bath!
515 Walnut: Huge apt., great for 3 or
4, tons of sunlight, furnished, new
kitchen, laundry and parking!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!3-Bedrooms! 1346 & 1506 Geddes:
Only I left@each location
331 Catherine: Two apartments in a
large house, great Kerrytown location.
www.varsitymanagement.com

Ai~
WilsonWhite
EIA NA GEM N t N
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
(,pscale bedroom
apartments @61 1
urciT Teg are
newlg constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, with a/I
the latest anclgratest
amen/t/es, like a
washer and drger in
unit!

I

coupon for every new tour!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!

I

. I

e

Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
Tower
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry, 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back. $3300.
Call 248-214-8708!
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
p Studidt& 1
E BdrmDO Units
teriPeza Condominium
uet & Secur Hrghnse - One block rnm Campys
Call Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220,Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
hdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fal 09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net

19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarboraparentsnet
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2& 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I hdrm., and 2 brm. aps. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. IMMED. 2 bdrm., hardwood
floor, full basement, 2 car garage, suit-
able for grad student. $1150/mo. Heat
and water included. (734) 662-9446.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
BIG 2 BDRM. for 3 persons. 2 baths.
2 blocks from Union. Free heat/prkg.
Fall '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.

wwVaraty
Managem et
625 Church St
(734) 668-1100
917 Packard
Between Vaughn& B
University
Large 2-bedroom
apartments
Each has apatio or balcony;
Greatlfor 3 -4 people
Furnished, laundry, parking
APARTMENTSAVAILABLE
FALL 2009
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard (Furnished) $1890
915 Oakland (Grand Victorian Home)

1015 Packard
$1355
205 N. Divi
$1995
4 Bedrooms

(Near State and Packard)
sion (Cathedral Ceilings)

7-BEDROOM HOUSEdavailahle for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full haths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Shrt
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!

ine:62 full kitchens, 2 full haths, great
for 6-8 people. Close to Downtown,
Zingerman's & summer farm market!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
401 EAST MADISON - Brand New
(!) apartments featuring: 6 Bedrooms +
Study, 2.5 bathrooms, washer
and dryer in unit, and off street park-
ing, corner of Madison and Packard.
Floor plans available.
$3,995/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best BIG HSE: 5
local website for the best selection of Living, dinin;
apartments and houses. We specialize study, Free ld
in houses and apartments with. 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus. CAMPUS L
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller prkg, ldry, nor
availahle too! Alt are attractively includes alt ati
priced, most include parking, many are ltpetiet@
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to 3
schedule a personal showing with our 3 B
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101. 8M(
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses, SE
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at .www.allmandproperties.com for $15
more info or call 734-973-7368.
112
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the COp
January Blowout Deals!!! 73
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This absolutely ends on 1/31/2009! CAMP
Call the Best at 734-761-2680 AVAIL
universitytowers-mi.com
3 Bedrooms
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. 720 West W
Call today 741-9657. West Side Ho
911 Oakland(
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts. 1116 Hill (A
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665- $1785
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
5 Bedrooms
IMMEDIATE & FALL 611Church(A
743 Packard (1
OCCUPANCY 816P ackard
1014 Vaughn
Great location: 1320 S. University 6 Bedrooms
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term 921 Dewey
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet $3095
1, 2& 3 Bedrooms Studios, 1, ar
able; and son
Call Today! gotiable too!'

1g. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
g rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
ry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
ARGE 4 bdrm. apt. furn.,
m-smkr only, $1680/mo.
ilities (734)-973-6499.
Demerson-schools.org
drm Apt.
onth Lease
ept-May)
00/Month
0 S. Forest
o Properties
4-663-5609
PUS PROPERTIES
LABLE MAY 2009
ashington (Charming Old
me) $1795
(Furnished) $2395
cross from South Quad)
Above Amers!) $3995
Packard and State) $2995
d (Remodeled Kitchen)
(Furnished) $2995
(Furnished, Dishwasher)
nd 2 Bedrooms also avail-
me May rates are now ne-
Wilson White
734-995-9200
hitemanagement.com
onwhitemanagement.com

1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard (Newly Remodeled)
$2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division (Historic Home) $3125
916 Sybil (Brand New House) $3295
1021 E. University (Across From Sgt.
Peppers) $2495
1307 S. State $2595
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison (Brand New!) $3995
1014 Vaughn (Plenty of Parking)
$3695
1814 Geddes (Close to Diag) $3795
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson (Victorian Mansion)
$4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
CURRENTLY PRE-LEASING Stu-
dio- 12Br Houses/Apartments; Great lo-
cations both Downtown and on Cam-
pus. Call Wilson White Management at
734-995-9200, stop by 616 Church St.
across from Amers or see
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com for
available units. '
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in -prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1199/mo.
734-665-8825 www.campusrealty.com
GREAT 5 BEDROOM house plus
study in prime location. Free laundry &
parking. 2 full baths. $2999. 734-665-
8825. www.campusrealty.com
GREAT LOCATION, 2 doors east of
CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 bath. house has
screened front porch, giant Living
Room, d/w & microwave. Parking in
lot behind house. 2 bdrms. could be
used as doubles! Call Pat 734-663-4101.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
ApartmentsAvaiable!

Issa Properties
Furmished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, January 28, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Silver rider, with 39 Two-tone 50 Meter maid of
1 Lacking tread "the" treat song
5 Snitch 4 Crack legal org.? 41 Stimulating 51 Secret plotfound
9 Fryer piece 5 Spouse-to-be capsule in 17-, 26-, 44-
14 _ vera 6 Peruvian empire 42 "I Got a Name" and 55-Across
15 Privy to builder singer Jim 53 Powerful TV
16 Numbered 7 Neither here 45 Grocery princess
supermarket there employees 54 Winged deity
area 8 Prayer joint? 46 Went wild 55 Kilmer of
17 Rich desserts 9 Burritocousins 48 Old Italian "Tombstone"
25 Pocatello-to- 10 Broad in the bread? 56 Hot mo.
Provo dir. beam, soto 49 Celtic land 57 Yale Bowl rooter
21 "Reflections speak
Golden Eye" 11 Homed goddess ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
2McCullers novel) 12 Unrestrained joy R E B U S ETA LE I NO
22 Passhby 13."_So Fine":
23 Campus military 163 #1 ehitl FASit S I CA R O D A NA
25 akeoffl liisBendel F E ELIN G A L D V E
26 Squid, e.g. 24dPrfwith-pas a R A W L A a S 0 R D
31 Saturated 26eMovie segment I R E A L 0 T oPP
34 Singing, in Sicily 27Readytfor action F I N A L S T R A W I M A M
35Micasfmgul 28Representative S T A LK T S N O R E
36 Tankardlfiller 29 Long-snouted O S L 0 FO0C AL P 0 I N T
37 Maker ofFlip hrowser H A L E L I A S I S
Flop wanfles 30 Rioul oftencient BIASED EN TE
38 Lukewrm Carthage
39Someulls 31 Deliwrap F U 5 L E A 0 R O E N D
40 Wedding 32 Aromaticresin R E P 0 C L I P I L O N A
announcement 33 Basic belief A N E W E L S E N A V A L
word 38 Publicans of old T 0 I L D V E D G I A N T
41 High anxiety Rome xwordeditor@aol.com 01/27109
4  de menthe 1 2 4 , 7 9 10 11134M s
44 Grade booster 14 s 18
46 Tach measure
47 Circuit 17 18 1$
48 Skydiver, atlfirst
51 Post-WWI 1 2
nuclear org. 2a
52 Bunyan's tool
55 Boston ivy so 31 32
relative 439
58 "The Tempest"
spirit 37 38 3
59 Istanhul native
65 Staren around 412
midnight 4 "
61 19-time grand
slam singles as 47
finalist
62SQuiteuawhlie a's s2sas
63 Funds for the
golden yrs.
ss s9 s o
DOWN
1 Streisand, in I6 2 3
fanzins

WilsonWhite
MA AG EfMEN
How~e~r Avilable roll
2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500

(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com j

Management
www.wilsonw
campus@wils

lwww.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201

Deadline for fine ads is 11:
Rates: $4.30 per line fo
additional consecutive is
contact our staff for deta
ads are placed in person
business ads only) All a
have been established ",
Discover, cash, or check
of our Account Executive

2 lines
3 lines
4 lines

1 day
8.60
12.90

30am one business day priorto publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
r the first issueand $2.15 per linefor each 020 - For Sale
sue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
ils " Students may receivea 25% discount when 030- Automotive
with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040 - Computers
ds must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
045 -Tdchnology
We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, 050- Furntug
For Classified Display advertising, please call one 050 -Furniture
is 060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080- Services
12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
eviations as defined by TMD wll be accepted. Misprints: The lability of
ement forany reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
sequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125 - Music
rtisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
pen rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended ata 130 - Roommates
id in ful by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
publcation deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
e subject to editing and approval. We do not publish advertisements for 150 - Personal
lue, TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to 160 - Pets

4

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbr
TMD for failure to publsh an advers(
shal be imited to publishing in a sub
will be responsible for classified adve
Rates: Al changes shown on the o
consecutive rate if requested and pa
Advertiers may cancel an ad before
been pubshed. Refusal: Al ads ar
resale of tickets at more than face va
accepting advertising.

2 Word of woe

By Robert E. Lee Morris o
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

01/28/09

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michioandaily.com



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

._

Wednesday, January 28, 2009 - 7A


FALLOUT
From Page 1A
thatifthesophomorestaysenrolled
through the spring, the coach will
be willing to discuss the forward's
future with the team.
"It was a tough decision, but the
right decision," Michigan State
coach Comley said. "I think the
action that took place in the heat of
the battle was inappropriate.
Idon'tthinkthekidsarebadkids.
I don't think it was premeditated."
Yesterday, Michigan coach Red
Berensonagreedthathe feltKamp-
fer wasn't specifically targeted.
"It all comes down to intent -
sometimes, its not what you do and
why you do it," Berensonsaid."This

wasnotapremeditated thing,butit
was an instant reaction and it was
too serious to overlook."
Kampfer suffered a concussion
and strained neck in the inci-
dent. Though he didn't practice
yesterday, Berenson is hopeful
Kampfer will practice with the
team tomorrow pending medical
clearance.
Berenson said he was unaware
of the Michigan State players'
decisions.
"I think it's a serious situation
and that's a serious reprimand,"
Berenson said. "When you're a
coach,thefirstthingyouwanttodo
is defend your players, but there's a
point where there's no defense. But
I respect Rick Comley for making a
tough decision like that."

HOUSING
From Page 1A
hand, the high student populas
tion actually induces higher rent
for downtown living, because
students are able to afford ris-
ing rent costs. As a result, lower
income residents are pushed out
of the downtown area.
But by including the student
population in the federal census
conducted every 10 years, the
city and county can get more
federal funding for low-income
housing.
"When we do our census every
10 years, that includes student
housing. On paper students look
extremely low income," she said.
"We probably get more money
than if they were supposed to
take students out of that formu-
la."
City-county community devel-
opment officials are planning to
continue to work with local busi-
nesses and residents within the
neighborhoods of the proposed
sites and are looking to hold pub-
lic hearings to address concerns
in upcoming months.

ADVISING THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT


LAMP
From Page 1A
Medical Relief - a non-profit
organization based in Detroit -
who traveled to the Philippines
and assisted in a surgery that
was performed in the dark with a
flashlight.
"We figured if we could devel-
op a light that had good optical
properties and at the same time
had good battery backup so that
if there was an electricity short-
age or a blackout or a brownout,
the light could still keep running,"
Samorezov said.
Stephen DeWitt, who led the
lamp design, said the group's aim
was to set the cost of initial proto-
type lamps at $200 so developing
countries could afford to construct
them.
"The long-term goal is to meet
up with entrepreneurs in the
developing countries themselves
and have them fabricate it," DeW-
itt said.
He said that once the lamp
becomes mass-produced, the cost
shouldeventually decreasebecause
of lower material and labor costs.
The project is currently funded
by the University's Department of
Biomedical Engineering.
Initially the lamp was to be
piloted in Ghana and Uganda,
but the first prototype will be
sent with World Medical Relief to
Liberia in March.
Samarezov said M-HEAL plans
to keep up contact with the hos-
pitaltesting the lamp so they can 
later determine what improve-
ments need to be made.
"We want to go there, drop the
lamp off, see how it does and see
if the technicians and the hospi-
tals think 'Oh this is great, but we
would really like it if it also did
this," she said. "So we really want
HAVE A
TALENT
FOR
WEB
DESIGN OR
BUILDING?
E-mail graca@
michigandaily.
cor
for more
information.

to have a good dialogue with the
people there, come back, make
improvements and then turn it
into a business model where we
can get the plans to people in the
developing world."'
If the lamp works success-
fully in Liberia, M-HEAL plans
to produce another four lamps
by the end of the semester to
send with WMR and other Uni-
versity medical student groups
traveling to countries over the
summer.
in addition to the surgi-
cal lamp, the group has been
researching new design ideas.
One idea is to create a centri-
fuge that relies on a gyroscope
and can be hand-powered to spin
blood samples. These samples
would show how much iron is in
the blood and would indicate ifa
patient was anemic.
Another idea isto invent a reus-
able glucometer test strip that
people with diabetes can use to
check their blood sugar.
Samarezov said M-HEAL sent
out surveys last spring to hos-
pitals in Jamaica, Mongolia and
Cuba, which identified centrifug-
es and glucometers as "high-need
items."
"Our design plan is to have
some people research these ideas
and see if they're feasible, see if its
already been done and thentake it
to the same process the lamp has
been through," she said.
Aileen Huang-Saad, M-HEAL
advisor and biomedical engineer-
ing lecturer, said she is excited
about the potential of the-surgical
lamp.
"I think we have an extremely
dedicated group of individuals
that have really identified some
critical needs and (have shown)
how students at the University
of Michigan can impact people
beyond borders," she said.

At last night's LSA-SG meeting, Tim Dodd, the director of the Newnan Academic Advising Center, told students to work wit
departments to improve the University's academic experience and, in particular, advising. "I'm talking about departments
creating internship opportunities, advising, teaching; and the best wayto do that isto get students involved," Dodd said.


MSA
From Page 1A
students who want to be active on
campus," he said. "And we want to
deconstruct that red tape."
The resolution passed with no
objections.
MSA also approved a bid for
the University to host the 2011
Midwest Bisexual Lesbian Gay
Transgender and Ally College
Conference. The conference is
held at a different college in the
Midwest each year.
The University put in a bid last
year to host the conference, but
was unsuccessful. The assembly
ECONOMISTS
From Page 1A
boost.
"Because of the low spending
propensity, the rebates in 2008 pro-
vided low'bang for the buck' as eco-
nomic stimulus," Shapiro said in a
press release. "Puttingcash into the
hands of the consumers who use it
to save or pay off debt boosts their
well-being, but it does not necessar-
ily make them spend."
In a survey of more than 2,500
people, Shapiro and Slemrod found
that 80 percent of Americans who
received a tax rebate as part of the
2008 Stimulus Act either saved the

will find out if the University won
the right to host the conference at
this year's conference in February.
In the past, the University has
hosted to the conference.
The assembly's Chief of Staff
Ashley Schwedt, who is helping in
the effort, said she thinks the Uni-
versity is a likely candidate.
"I think we have a good chance,"
she said. "I think that Michigan is a
pretty obvious choice to have it."
The resolution passed in a 21-0
vote with four abstentions.
The final resolution approved at
last night's meeting called for the
creation of the Athletic Relations
Select Committee.
money orused itpay offexistingdebt.
The remaining 20 percent said they
spent at least part of their rebates.
The survey also found that older
Americans were the most likely to
spend their tax rebates, with 28.5
percent of people over the age of 65
spending their rebate checks, com-
pared to only 11.7 percent of people
under the age of 29.
Most individuals who qualified for
the Stimulus Act received between
$300 and $600. Couples who filed
jointly received between $600 and
$1,200.Parentswithchildrenreceived
an additional $300 per child.
Intended to inject more money
into the economy, the percentage
of people who actually spent their

Athletics personnel have previ-
ously approached MSA to address
interactions between student-ath-
letes, the student body and athletic
policies, according to the resolution.'
LSA Rep. Andrew Chinsky, who
authored the resolutionwas accept-
ed as chair of the committee.
The purpose of the committee
will be to strengthen the relation-
ship between student-athletes and
other University students. It is also
intended to heighten fan participa-
tion and morale. The committee
also hopes to work with athletic
personnel to address concerns
related to both students and stu-
dent-athletes.
rebate money was significantly
lower than expected when the
package was first proposed.
"Putting cash into the hands of
the consumers who use it to save
or to pay off debt boosts their well
being, but it does not necessarily
make them spend," Shapiro said.
Though part of the Obama
stimulus plan includes a $500 tax
rebate to most working Ameri-
can families, the professors'
research initially concluded that
this approach might not be the
most effective way to improve the
economy. In light of the worsen-'
ing financial conditions in recent
months, Shapiro said a more long-
term solution to the economic cri-

Chinsky said he hopes the com-
mittee will enhance the experience
of attending all types of student
sporting events.
"There are a lot of things that we
could be doing to improve the expe-
rience for students, whether it's
football or any of the other sports,"
he said. "And so hopefully we can
work with the athletic office and
the different teams to increase an
awareness and appreciation for all
the different sports."
The resolution passed with no
opposition.
Mallory Beberman
contributed to this report.
sis is necessary.
"Those designing the next eco-
nomic stimulus package should
take into account that much of
the temporary tax rebate is likely
not to be spent," Shapiro said.
"Instead, tax changes that give
a sustained boost to purchasing
power of households are more
likely to be effective."
Shapiro and Slemrod published
their findings in a report entitled,
"Did the 2008 Tax Rebates Stimu-
late Spending?"
The professors shared their
research at an annual meeting of
the American Economics Associa-
tion, which took place earlier this
month in San Francisco.


the michigan daily
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully NORTH C
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered Incl. Heat
porch & much more. 741-9300. www.HRF
www.annarborapartments.net LARGE I
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE 1111 S.1
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT! Avail. No
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms mcl. Ba
universitytowers-mi.com $1450-$17
734-761-2680 734-996-3
HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard. ehtseng@
5 or 6 people. Pree prkg. No pets. Pree. WE WILl
ldry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818. M Housir
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms room 02-
avail on central or north campus. have dea
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net fancy dre
hoosing f
NOW LEASING White Ma
Prime Student Housing www.wils
761-8000
www.primesh.com SPACIOU
Church. S
Call today to see your new Home!
sblet
Efficiencies:
344 5. Division
1 Bedrooms: I
529 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover 1-3 PER;
1320 S. UNIVERSITY Great loci
2 Bedrooms: Furnished
909 Church net/heat/w
1320 N.University-I LEFT 810.923.0
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
326 E. Madison Servi C
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 Highn080
819 Bromn
*Fully Furnished apartment THESIS
*Parking Included organizat
*Free Ethernet 996-
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations) U-M PH.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE nology e'
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3 search pa
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty 7864 or sr
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
MUST SEE! BI-level duplex just one
block to Rackham. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea-
tures dishwasher, carpet, fireplace and LIFEGUA
a separate Dining Room. Health &1
Parking included. rently acc
Call Pat 734-663-4101. Call Life
W W W.800FULLER.COM please go
our webs
(734) 769-7520 completet
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus WEB Dl
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in design w:
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and company.
water incl. $1799/ mo. 734-665-8825. home. Pa
www.campusrealty.com call Jon (7

WANT TO
WRITE
ARTICLES
FOR DAILY
NEWS?
E-mail
smilovitz@
michigandaily.
com
for more
information.

AMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
/Water/Parking
PAA.com 996-4992.
FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
State, Near UM bus stop,
w or Fall 2009, Heat & water
alc., A/C, prkg., idry.,
50, No smkg./no pets.
539 or 734-678-7250.
comcast.net
L BE there - will you? U of
ng Fair, Michigan Union ball-
04-09 12-4:30; we will
Is, specials, giveaways, and
ss! Stop by and find your
ror next year ...now! Wilson
nagement 734-995-9200
onwhitemanagement.com
S 1 BDRMS at Hill and
825 -.$925. 734-260-4003.
S. APT. May-Mid-Aug.
ation! 3rd floor at U-Towers.
, FREE cable/inter-
water. $1100/mo.
1964 / dkaz@umich.edu
S EDITING- LANGUAGE,
ion, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
:566 or writeon@iserv.net
D. offers expert science/tech-
diting for dissertations, re-
apers. SciTech, (734) 668-
htech@comcast.net
ARD (ON-CALL). The
Fitness Center at WCC is cur-
epting applications for an On-
guarding Position. To apply,
to the Employment section of
ite, www.wccfitness.org, and
the online application.
ESIGNER NEEDED to re-
ebsite for Ann Arbor based
Flexible hrs./work from
ay hourly or by the job. Please
'34) 677-5562.

EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
TEST OUR PRODUCT and Get Free
Stuff! Ann Arbor tech startup seeks
volunteers to test our software product.
Your input will directly help drive our
product! TestOurProduct@gmail.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pas, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefundumich edu or 763.4499
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (899) 626 - 6394.
www.theislandhouse.com
Chl I dCare
095
CHILDCARE / DRIVER needed M,
W,F 2:45pm-6pm. Dan 649-7009.
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15
yr. old son needed, 10 min. from cam-
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev-
eral meals/wk., grocery shopping. Own
reliable transportation. Call 761-8489.
tickets & trave _
SPRING BREAK 09 TRAVEL FREE
Hottest Destinations, Hottest Parties
LOW LOW Prices!!Before its too late!!
BOOK NOW!! 1-800-426-7710
www.sunsplashtours.com

For Thursday, Jan. 29, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
A bright idea might occur to you
today. It's one of those "Eureka!"
moments. (It's great when they happen,
because they make you feel alive!)
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
You might meet someone who is a
character today. Or someone you already
know might do something bizarre and
surprising. Interesting!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Bosses, parents and VIPs might be
shocked by something you say or do
today. Something thrusts you into the
limelight briefly so thateveryone notices
you.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Surprise opportunities to travel or to
further your education might existltoday.
Someone from a different background or
different culture could intrigue you.
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
Unexpected gifts, favors or goodies
from others might come your way today.
People are spontaneously generous to
you. Alternatively, surprise solutions to
problems with inheritances or insurance
matters might arise.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Expect a few surprises from partners
and close friends today. They might say
or do something that catches you off
guard. Someone might also express the
need for more space or more freedom.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23to Oct. 22)
Interruptions at work are likely today,
possibly due to computer crashes, power
outages, fire drills, staff shortages or
sudden changes in plans. Stay light on
your feet!

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
A surprise flirtation might make you
sit up and take notice today. Parents
should be vigilant with children under
their care, because it's an accident-prone
day for children.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Unexpected company might drop by
today. Expected company might be a no-
show. Power outages and surprising
events create a hiccup in your domestic
routine.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
This is a mildly accident-prone day for
your sign. Take extra care with whatever
you're doing or saying. Slow down and
allow extra time for everything.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 toFeb. 18)
You might find money today; you
might lose money today. Something to
do with your money or your possessions
is unpredictable! If you're shopping
today, you'll succumb to impulse buy-
ing.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You want the freedom to do your own
thing today. You won't like being
restricted by others. Something unex-
pected might catch you off guard.
(Perhaps it makes you realize what it is
you really want to do.)
YOU BORN TODAY You're playful .
and fun-loving, and you have excellent
social skills. You also have a fine mind
and a sincere desire to make the world a
better place. Although you are essen-
tially passive in your approach to things,
nevertheless, you will always fight for
the underdog. A major change will take
place this year, perhaps something as
significant as around the year 2000.
Birthdate of: Thomas Paine,
writer/American revolutionary; Oprah
Winfrey, TV host/philanthropist; Teresa
Teng, singer.


C 2009 King Features Syndicate, inc.

A


8A - Wednesday, January 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam I

8A - Wednesday, January 28, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

1

No longer just
Harris shows

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
Last season, Manny Harris was
one-dimensional.
The then-freshman guard
would slither around defenders
and slash to the basket with amaz-
ing moves. He led the Michigan
men's basketball team in scoring
in 21 of 32 games,
including nine of
its 10 wins. Michigan at
Harris was a Ohio State
pure scorer, but
not much else. Michigan
One year later, 14-6; Ohio
and 20 games State 13-5
into the season, When: Tonight
the sophomore 6:30 P.M.
forward has set-
tled into his new Where: Value
position with ca
different mind- TV: BTN
set. Live Blog:
"Last year we http://thegame.
won 10 games," blogs.michigan-
Harris said at daily.com
Michigan Media
Day on Oct. 14.
"I was in full-attack mode, and
it wasn't enough. So this year,
I'm just getting my teammates
involved and believing that they
can knock shots down because
they can."
Despite a recent shooting slump
- 3-of-18 in his last two games -
Harris has become the versatile
threat Michigan coach John Beil-
ein wants out of his star player.
At this time last season, Harris
had 61 assists and 91 rebounds.
Entering tonight's matchup
with Ohio State in Columbus, he's
bumped those figures up to 91 and
152, respectively, while still con-
tributing a larger percentage of
offense than this time last season.
Against Oakland on Dec. 20, Har-
ris had 13 assists and was one short
of tying Gary Grant's 1987 single-
game school record.
"We expect some great things
from him," sophomore point guard
Kelvin Grady said of Harris on Oct.

a slasher,
versatility
span. The five opponents are a
combined 79-18.
The Buckeyes (3-4 Big Ten, 13-5
overall) play a 1-2-2 zone defense
that can easily collapse on a player
willing to drive to the basket.
The Wolverines struggled
against the system when the two
teams squared offjust11days ago in
Ohio State's 65-58 win. Once again,
Michigan (4-4, 14-6) will rely on
Harris to find his teammates when
he gets double-teamed.
But even is he doesn't put up hug
scoring numbers, Beilein knows
Harris's presence will be felt.
"You see these matchups on TV,
(which player) is leading the Big
Ten, all that," Beilein said. "That
should not be a stat that's relative.
It should be, 'Are you winning?'
Beilein emphasizes assist-to-
turnover ratio as the trademark of
a winning team, and he praises the
"little things" like the assist rather
than the basket.
And when Beilein's grooming
his next crop of players, he's not
looking at the scoreboard, either.
"When I recruit a kid, after a
game, I say, 'How'd you guys do?'"
Beilein said at his weekly radio show
on Jan. 26. "He'll say, 'Well, we won.'
I never ask him how many points he
has unless he brings it up.
"I'll say, 'How many assists did
you have? How many rebounds did
you have? What'd you think you
did well in the game?' That's the
way you do it because that's the
common thing. ... It's winning the
game that everyone has to realize
is the real deal."
Although former Michigancoach
Tommy Amaker recruited Har-
ris, the Detroit native has bought
into Beilein's philosophy, even if he
doesn't reach double figures.
MAX COLLINS/Daily "I've had 20-something and
sts than at this time last season. we lost," Harris said. "The big-
gest thing is we're winning. I'll get
their best for the next two mine soon. I'm not worried about
After Ohio State, Michigan that part."

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Sophomore Carl Hagelin and his linemaes combined for four goals last weekend.
Hage lin, Rust
and Palushaj
reunite to spark
stagnant offense
By CHRIS MESZAROS attribute of the second line is its
Daily Sports Writer speed. Hagelin is one of the fastest
players in the country, and Palush-
A reunion could spark memo- aj and Rust aren't slouches.
ries of high school glory days or Just 36 seconds into last Satur-
awkward family gatherings. day's game against Michigan State,
But Michigan hockey coach Red Palushaj slid the puck to Rust, who
Berenson'sideaofareunioninvolves sped past the Spartan defense
a whole lot of lamp-lighters. before whipping a wrist shot into
After his team scored just one the net.
goal in Michigan's series two Later in the game, Hagelin made
weeks ago against Bowling Green, a similar play, receivinga pass from
Berenson decided to mix up the Rust and skating past the Spartan
forwards on Michigan's top two defensemen before scoring just 12
lines. He moved sophomore Aaron seconds into the third period. '
Palushaj to play with sophomores "He has the ability to create
Matt Rust and Carl Hagelin, who offense just by cutting back or
were all part of a high-flying offen- beating a guy with his speed,"
sive line last season. Rust said of Hagelin. "And Aaron
"I think it was more of a point is a guy who just has tremendous
that Coach wanted to get some playmaking ability. He can just
more scoring going," Rust said. find you wherever on the ice. I've
"Especially with me and Carl being never seen a player that can pass
kind of snakebitten, he wanted to it through four pairs of skates, or
put Palushaj back with us to get us over and under sticks like Aaron
going." can."
And after the all-sophomore line Palushaj describes himself as
combined for four goals and six the linemate who likes to slow the
assists in the Wolverines' sweep play in the neutral zone to draw
of Michigan State last weekend, it attention from the defense. He
looks like this reunion has helped then takes advantage of his line-
Michigan finda permanent second mates' speed as they streak down
line. the wings by delivering them the
The three sophomores played puck, which creates a scoring
together for about half of last sea- opportunity for the Wolverines.
son, becoming Michigan's second Palushaj tallied three assists
most productive line with 89 total Saturday, one each to Hagelin,
points. The three have put up bet- Rust and junior acting captain
ter combined statistics this year Chris Summers.
than last, but Hagelin and Rust "For Palushaj, it's been good for
struggled to score throughout the him," Berenson said. "He's been in
first half of the season. But the a bit of a rut since he's been back.
addition of Palushaj, who has 31 When you're playing with Carl and
points so far this season, will likely Rust, they play so hard that things
help. happen, andhe complements them.
"Starting last year, it didn't take He can make plays even if he's not
too long for us to get used to each scoring."
other and start putting up num- Like the rest of Michigan's
bers,"Palushaj said. "Ijust thought unpredictable season, it's hard to
it would be a matter of time before tell what will happen next for the
we played together again and just line. But as No. 1Notre Dame looms
start producing again." large this weekend, the sophomore
Besides the scoring threat that trio must continue its success for
it provides, perhaps the greatest Michigan to beat the Irish.
MEN'S TRACKA DFED
From Jamaica to A2,
Peddlar adjusts well

Sophomore Manny Harris currently has 30 more assi
14. "But at the same time, we've to be at
got players around, too, that he'll weeks..

make better. We'll make him bet- plays No. 16 Purdue, unranked
ter, but he'll make us better, too." Penn State, No. 2 Connecticut and - Alex Prosperi
And the Wolverines will need No. 9 Michigan State in a 14-day contributed to this report.

By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
The only other time Robert
Peddlar had ever seen snow was
on television, and his warmest
coat was his blazer.
But as the Jamaican native
sat in class last winter, Peddlar,
a sophomore on the Michigan
men's track and field team, saw
something new out the window.
"I was so amazed," Peddlar
said of the snow. "I remember the
first time I was out of class, just
to be in it and touch it and feel
what it was like."
Assistant coach David Kaiser
said when Peddlar showed up in
Ann Arbor a few weeks before his
first semester, it was comical how
underdressed he was.
Kaiser laughed as he described
a SO-degree outdoor practice dur-
ing Peddlar's first year. Through
chattering teeth while shivering,
Peddlar voiced his disbelief that
practice wasn't indoors. He was
grossly unprepared for the win-
ter in front of him.
"We gave him a pair of gloves
and a cap, but as far as a true win-
ter coat, he didn't even have one,"
Kaiser said. "Winters in Jamaica
are like our summers here, so
when temperatures got below 50,
he was pretty uncomfortable."
Junior captain Frank Shot-
well said teammates rallied
around Peddlar and that he never
doubted his teammate's ability to
adapt.
"Seeing him all bundled up

is the funniest thing," Shot-
well said. "He was wearing long
sleeves and sweats in August
when we were out in spandex.
But I knew he was going to make
it. He's a tough kid."
Peddlar weathered his way
through injuries last season and
has improved this year. A week
after he finished a close second in
the 60-meter hurdles at the East-
ern Michigan Invitational, he
won both the long jump and the
high jump against Ohio State in
"The Dual" on January 17.
Peddlar said he has adjusted
very well since August 2007
and doesn't get bothered by the
weather anymore. He said he
chose Michigan for its outstand-
ing academics, and he hopes to
apply to the Ross School of Busi-
ness.
But Michigan might never
have been on Peddlar's radar if
not for his high school coach at
Wolmer's Boys School, former
Wolverine runner Neil Gardner.
He considered Gardner's words
to be gospel, and when making
his college decision, it was Gard-
ner's advice he listened to most.
"Ifa track career was the only
thing I wanted, Michigan wasn't
the place for me," Peddlar said of
Gardner's advice. "But if I want-
ed to be well off in life, I should
come to this institution because
it not only builds you academi-
cally, but also athletically and in
other areas.
"When he told me this was a
good place, I believed him."


0

0

0" 0"0 "

I 8B The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, January 28, 2009

A home plate away from home

sat before my television on
Election Day and tried to hold
my emotions in check as I wit-
nessed one of the most symbolic
moments of American history.
In my head, I thought of the first
image that came to my mind when
I heard the word "America."
It wasn't the Statue of Liberty or
the American flag.
It was an upper-deck view of
Yankee Stadium from behind
home plate during the playing of
Kate Smith's rendition of "God
Bless America." I could feel the
crowd roaring on this windy night
in the Bronx. This was America to
me. Watching the last game to be
played in Yankee Stadium on tele-
vision, my eyes really started to
tear up after it finally hit me what a
special place the "House that Ruth
Built" really was and the impres-
sion that 16 years going to games
there had left on me.
I attended my first game wear-
ing a Michigan T-shirt at age four,
on May 15, 1992 against the Oak-
land Athletics. I sat in the upper
deck, just to the right of home plate
with my father, and my friend Jas-
per, who also was with his father.
The pitchers that night were
both familiar names in my family.
My father graduated from Michi-
gan and chose the game because
former Wolverine Scott Kamien-
iecki was starting for the Yankees.
His opponent was Bob Welch, who
attended Eastern Michigan while
my father was in Ann Arbor.
My father says he knew Welch
through a mutual friend and often
drankwithhim.He also claimsthat
he barely recognized Welch on the
scoreboard that night because his

eyes weren't bloodshot. Inciden-
tally, Welch had authored a book in
1991 chronicling his fight against
alcoholism.
The two pitchers threw strong
games, and my father probably
hummed "Hail to the Victors" as
we walked to the car after Kamie-
niecki grinded out a 3-2 victory.
My only vivid memory of the game
was watching a middle-aged man
throw paper airplanes around
empty seating sections and being
mesmerized at how well they flew.
The action on the field was slow
and I neverthoughtbaseball would
click for me.
I only returned once between
then and July 22, 1999, when I had
finally had my sports-fan awaken-
ing. As I settled into my seat with
my fellow day campers, a bit of deja
vu came to me. I was in those same
seats. It was almost surreal -- the
forgotten memory of my real first
game returned. At 11 years old, I
witnessed the first play I can fully
recall as the Yankees' Bernie Wil-
liams crushed a first-inning homer
that made the crowd roar.
The loudest I ever heard the
stadium get was June 10, 2002 in
a grudge match from the previous
World Series against the Arizona
Diamondbacks. Before a packed
house in a scoreless game against
the unhittable Randy Johnson,
Yankees rookie Marcus Thames
stepped in to face baseball's top
pitcher for his first career at-bat.
On just the second pitch he saw,
Thames swung and connected for
a two-run homer to left - fans got
so loud that it shook the stadium
for minutes on end.
Yankee Stadium was more than

just a place where great plays were picked three seats in my tradition-
made and records were broken. al spot: tier reserve nine, behind
The place was made up of per- home plate. That year, Alex Rodri-
sonal memories, the kind of anec- guez, Kevin Brown and Javier
dotes that are never as good in the Vazquez were the team's new addi-
retelling because the listener could tions. The Yankees were stacked,
never feel that rush of excitement and our tickets cost just $12 each
you get when you recall them. per game.
On Sept. 17, 2000, the infamous That fall, I went to a few playoff
Jose Canseco dropped two fly balls games, one of which remains the
in a 15-4 loss. On the highway after most memorable (and despised) of
my life: Game 6 of the 2004 ALCS
against Boston.
Up 3-2 in the series, my Yankees
How Yankee faced a nearly one-legged Curt
Schilling, whose tendons were
Stadium became stuck together by medical pins.
y lof Each time he had to make a play,
my symDo O it took him minutes to return to
.aroim the mound. Many fans yelled for
pairlolism the Yankees to bunt to no avail.
Schilling's heroic performance
that led to the Game 6 win and the
eventual series victory for the Red
the game, Canseco was in the car Sox will go down in history as "The
next to my family's as we sat in Bloody Sock Game".
traffic. I asked my mother if I could Even as our ticket prices rose to
toss Canseco my baseball to sign, $27 per game in 2008, my parents
but she told me not to. She said he kept the seats. Ican safely say their
would drop the ball. decision to purchase those tickets
I only left one game early. For Cal was the best investment they could
Ripken Jr.'s last game in the Bronx have ever made for me as a kid
on Sept. 30, 2001, the music from growing up in New York. I really
"The Natural" played each time can't think of many other things,
he came to bat. Ripken went hit- besides death, that have ever made
less with four strikeouts in seven me cry - Yankee Stadium has been
at-bats. With the score tied in the the source of most of those tears.
15th inning, the game was called Thinking back on the stadium's
due to rain. I had pneumonia and history, there were so many events
had missed a few days of school the that made it such a hallowed place:
week before, so my mom made me Lou Gehrig's famous "Luckiest
leave in the fourteenth inning. Man Alive" speech, the dying Babe
By 2004, after years of picking Ruth using a bat as a cane months
random games to attend, my par- before he died to wave goodbye,
ents decided it was finally time to Bobby Murcer's tribute to Thur-
buy a ticket package. Naturally, I man Munson, George Bush show-

ing a thumbs-up tothe world before
firing a perfect strike in the wake
of the Sept. 11 attacks and the Paul
O'Neill sendoff from fans in 2001.
When I think of America's game, I
think of those nights in the Bronx.
Twenty-six World Champion-
ships and 17 retired numbers don't
hurt its image, either. Oh yeah, and
the visits from the Pope, the Super
Bowls, including the Colts ' vs.
Giants in 1958, the championship
boxing matches - the list goes on
and on. And after Sept.11, although
allbaseball stadiumsspentthe next
year playing "God Bless America"
during the seventh inning, Yankee
Stadium stood alone in continuing
the tradition until its closing day.
By Aug. 15,2008, my lastgame at
the stadium, I was able to navigate
the ballpark without even looking
at seat or row numbers. I knew the
names of many other fans in my
section, along with those of a num-
ber of vendors and even a few secu-
rity guards. Yankee Stadium felt
fike dome to me. At the end of the
game, I turned to my parents and
thanked them for the experience.
I'm immensely sad to see it
brought down. As the stadium's
planned "gradual demolition"
continues throughout 2009, we're
saying goodbye to so many memo-
ries and so much history. Driv-
ing through the South Bronx will
never be the same. The good news
is that I'm just 21 and the new Yan-
kee Stadium looks gorgeous. But
for now, so long Babe, Lou, Joe D
and Mick. Hope to see you some
day across 161st Street.
Roger Sauerhaft is a
Daily Sports writer.

Students push to get new Business School building LEED certified

From page 5B
"It definitely costs you money -
there's no doubt about it - but you
really don't know how much," Mer-
cer said.
The dean acknowledged that
cost concerns inhibited their flex-*
ibility to take extra environmental
steps. However, several of the Erb
students said that scrapping the
expensive architectural firm, New
York-based Kohn Pederson Fox, that
doesn't specialize in educational or

green building would have allowed
for considerably more wiggle room
in the budget.
Swett said that instead of hiring
a "starchitect" - slang for a high-
profile and high-cost architectural
firm - he would have focused more
on using local, recycled materials
for the building.
The Ross building's environmen-
tal plan could have gone further,
according to Erb Institute Prof.
Andy Hoffman, by including an
energy-saving geothermal heating
and cooling system and solar pan-

els.
Third year Erb Institute student
Jackie Pitera, who helped research
eco-conscious carpet options for the
building, said that while she liked
how the environmental aspects
merged well with the aesthetic
design of the building, she wished
the administration had taken more
steps to make the building a nation-
al example.
"If they're going to go through
the efforts of making a green build-
ing, it would have been nice if they
had taken it a bit further so it could

have been a demonstration piece or
learning tool," shesaid.
But Swett said that given the ini-
tial resistance, he was pleased with
how the building turned out.
"Do I think we made a lot of
progress? Yeah," he said. "And is it
a good building for the university?
Definitely."
Swett and others are quick to
point out that lobbying efforts have
also resulted in plans for the C.S.
Mott Children's and Women's Hos-
pital to achieve LEED certification,
and possibly the Law School expan-

sion as well.
Administrators haven't
announced any plans for North
Quad, the residential hall set to open
in 2010, to achieve ,certification.
According to a November Universi-
ty budget request, the complex aims
to exceed code-minimum energy
requirements by about 40 percent
and will have maximum insulation.
"If the business school building
going LEED Silver sets a minimum
bar for future (University of Michi-
gan) buildings, then that's a great
accomplishment," Swett said.



p p p p p

9 " S

0


el

The Michigan DDaily Wednesday, . 2009

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Lan Truong
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

new rules
rule 176: Mak-
ing a big show
of washing one
sink full of dishes
doesn't amend
for many plates
you let get crusty
in the living room
all year.
rule 177: It's
really not all right
to get upset if
someone doesn't
notice your new
haircut.
rule 178: Wak-
ing and baking
is fine in some
situations - bad
hangover, lan-
guage class --
but only if no one
can tell.
E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

Ads with eyes

Sponsored Links
Think You're Pregnant?

by Kristen Steagall

Oral contraception.
Morning-after pill.
Pregnancy tests. Click
here.
Teeth Whitening

of your Inbox and the reason tnherently, there is contro- as online marketing becomes
why advertisers take so much versy surrounding this type of more popular. For many, it
interest in your Facebook inter- advertising, and not just from seems like Big Brother really'
ests. The Big Brother-esque ads those targeted by it. is watching their every online
change according to e-mails First, there is much specu- move.
you send, items you search for lation over whether or not this Last weekend, I created
and information you put dn type of seemingly advanced four new Facebook accounts
your Facebook profile page. form of advertising is even for straight and gay male
in a media climate that is effective. If the ad is placed in and female users to see just
quickly becoming more based a social network like MySpace- how the advertising on Face-
online than on TV or in print, or Facebook, it may be shown to book adapts to information in
advertisers are struggling to its target audience, but there's a user's profile. The lesbian
regain the security of invest- the question of whether view- account I created generated ads
ing in a TV commercial. It used ers will even notice it. People for The Perfect Partner, a dat-
to be that a company could go to Facebook.com to use the ing site "designed exclusively
purchase an ad spot during a product that Facebook offers: for today's gay women by gay
certain hour on a specific chan- -online socializing. women" and for Proud Singles,
nel and they would know what "In the ad world, there is a another gay dating site. Both

sive, ano otten invasive, worto
of advertising, the question
remains of what could be done.
For an answer, we could look
to our neighbor to the north.
Professors at the University of
Ottawa's Internet Policy and
Public Interest Clinic have
issued a complaint with the
Canada's Office of the Privacy
Commissioner over the issue.

A digital scan qf your
photo albums proves you
need it!
Your One True Love

THE EDITOR'S NOTEBOOK with JESSICA VOSGERCHIAN
A look at the big news events this week and how important they really are. Conveniently rated from one to10.

RABBIT R.I.P.
American master novelist John Updike died of lung cancer Tuesday. He was
72. Updike, best known for the "Rabbit" series, was a master of letters of
such quality that many people assumed he must have already been dead.
But the prolific author was anything but - in fact, he continued to publish
about a book a year and write criticism for publications like The New Yorker
up until his death. Basically, he was more productive in his dying days than
you'll likely be in your lifetime.
REMEMBER THE CONSTITUTION?
President Obama issued a series of executive orders last week meant to
dismantle former President Bush's most controversial anti-terrorism poli-
cies. If all goes according to plan, the Guantanamo Bay detention center
and the CIA's network of secret prisons will be closed within a year. The
CIA will also cease to use interrogation techniques that some claim are
torture. Obama's gesture is bittersweet, though. A government with con-
stitutional limitations will be so much more predictable than what we had
in the Bush years. Slander, even.

NATIONAL NO WORK DAY
Companies from every corner of the job market annouced layoffs amount-
ing to more than 65,000 jobs cut on Monday alone. The United States
economy has lost more than 2.5 million jobs since the recession began in
December 2007. But on the bright side, The Detroit News reports that one
industry is thriving in these hard times: area psychics have seen a spike in
business from people wanting to know about theirjob security. That might
be a career path to consider for recent graduates. "You're in great danger of
losing yourjob" - now, that isn't so hard.
A LOT OF HOT AYERS
Controversial activist Bill Ayers spoke at the Hatcher Graduate Library
Tuesday with his wife and fellow activist Bernadine Dohrn. A former
member of the violent activist group The Weather Ground, Ayers was
thrust into the spotlight during the election when Republicans tried
to attack Obama for knowing the former "terrorist.*In his speech on
campus, Ayers lectured that real change comes from the ground up. But
if the result of youthful activism is nearly propelling someone like Sarah
Palin to the White House, perhaps we should abstain.

2

We've scoured the web
to find your perfect
match.
More Ads


! S - -0 i*

0

.AOL .I

Wednesday, Janua y 28, 2009 -The Michigan Daily

1
I

t ; - ..o
' r_ t
f '
_ i
,
t , " r
k , .
3

ABOUT CAMPUS

ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN OQUIST

QUOTES OF THE WEEK
"It is clear that the boy,
I remember the first at the age of three, knows
thought I had was,'Oh, what to do with a lighter
crap, I just died.'" and cigarette."


E

I ff 'f t i E :'..

Students of Zen
The joys and challenges of
living in Ann Arbor's Zen
Buddhist Temple
It's about 7 a.m. on a Wednes-
day morning at the Zen Buddhist
Temple on Packard Street. LSA
junior Joslyn DeVinney is demon-
strating how to do a prostration in
the sonbang, or meditation room.
She slides a mat onto the floor in
front of an altar, kneels down,
bends over until her head is almost
touching the floor and sits back up,
her elbows bent and her hands in
a praying position in front of her
face. Every morning.- except for
Wednesdays, when the residents of
the temple hold a group meeting -
she does 108 of these.
"You don't have to do it with a
mat, but if you don't, your knees are
going to kill you," DeVinney said.
"But 108 - it's a good workout."
DeVinney, one of the temple's
seven live-in members, isn't who
you'd expect to find in a Buddhist
temple. Or rather, the temple isn't
the kind of place you'd expect to
be a student residency. But several
of the residents are like DeVinney:
non-Buddhist students who were
drawn to the tutelage of Reverend
Haju Sunim, the temple's resident
priest.
"I came to the meeting, talked to
the other residents and I got a good
vibe," she said..
Consisting of a modest house,
sangha hall and garden surrounded
by an imposing wall, the temple is
not a typical college residence, nor
does it look like a typical temple.
Sunim said that before it was
converted into a temple in 1981,
the house was at separate times a
doctor's office, a bordello and a fra-
ternity.
While the temple is far from

the cinematic imagining of Bud-
dhist monastic life -there's no
monument on the mountain and
no thousand steps to climb for the
daily water -DeVinney endured
an extreme lifestyle change after
moving in last September.
"It was difficult," she said. "It's
counter-student lifestyle."
The daily regiment is enough
to make any undergrad shudder.
Every morning, except for Sat-
urdays, residents wake up at 5:30
a.m., stretch and practice yoga
for a half-hour and do the afore-
mentioned 108 prostrations - all
before breakfast. Then there are
the smaller but equally important
rituals they must do throughout
the day, whether it's making the
traditional breakfast of grains,
vegetables and yogurt, bowing
when entering or leaving certain
rooms like the sonbang, or saying
prayers before meals.
"Initially, there was a lot of con-
fusion," said Daniel, a graduate stu-
dent who preferred not to give his
last name because of the nature of
his work at the University. "There's
lots of rituals and I was afraid to do
the wrong thing."
Like DeVinney, Daniel, who
considers himself "a Jew who's
interested in Buddhism," made the
decision to move into the temple
primarily out of convenience.
"I was moving from Kansas and
I was looking for a place to live," he
said. "I had been exposed to medi-
tation and had traveled through
Southeast Asia. I showed up for
a Sunday service, and came back
again and it turned out there was
an opening ... so I took the leap."
BothDaniel and DeVinneynoted
the soothing, welcoming atmo-
sphere of the temple as one of the
best reasons for livingthere.
"I look forward to coming back
here," Daniel said. "There's a real

C.

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Contaminated peanut butter on campus
2. Violence on the hockey rink
3. John Updike
And three things you can't:
1. The Jonas Brothers in the White House
2. SarahPAC
3, "The Curious Case
of Benjamin Button"

- DAVE KREEB, a 30-year-old man from
Pasco County, Fla., on being hit by the side
mirror of a semi truck on the shoulder of a
highway. Kreeb had pulled over to tend to an
injured deer that was on the side of the road.
Kreeb walked away with minor injuries.

- JONATHAN REES, a prosecutor in Britain, argu-
ing that 24-year-old Kelly Marie Pocock should be
sentenced for cruelty to a child under 16 for letting
her child smoke. The boy was filmed smoking in a
cell-phone video that was given to a social services
agency. Pocock was present during the filming.

"I tried to wake her up every day. I wanted to talk to her."
- SAM SACO, co-owner of Romulus Liquor in Michigan, quoting an 8-year-old boy who came into
his store and tried to purchase food with his mother's expired credit card. His mom had been dead
for more than a week, and the boy had been living alone, subsisting on dried rice, butter and flour.

peacefulness to this place. It has
this really profoundly calming
effect."
The residents come from diverse
backgrounds, ranging from a mid-
dle-aged auto industry worker to
an ordained priest, but there's a
unifying philosophy that creates a
positive community.
"It's a refuge in away," DeVinney
said. "The people who come here
are on the same page. We're look-
ing for real connections with peo-
ple. It's been very helpful to have
this kind of support as I'm navigat-
ing my way through the world."
Each daily routine in the temple
has served as a learning experi-
ence, although some, like the early
morning shoveling of snow - a

task signaled by the ringing of a
bell - seem physically grueling
before spiritual.
"I'm happy and sad when I hear
the bell," Daniel said, referring to
both the hardship and bondingthat
come with waking up early to labor
alongside his housemates. "Even
when we shovel, it's an opportu-
nity to practice mindfulness."
Chad Johnson, a student at
Shimer College in Chicago who
commutes, agreed that a mixture
of joy and apprehension are a part
of adjusting to the temple lifestyle.
"I'm enjoying (the experience),
but I'm exhausted right now,"
Johnson said.
But despite the difficulties of liv-
ing there, the temple has had pro-

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
foundly positive long-term effects
on the residents.
"It's having this slow, subtle
effect on me, particularly in my
work," Daniel said. "It's just been
improving the quality of my life."
DeVinney originally moved
into the temple because she felt
she wasn't ready to spend a year
abroad in France. But she said that
living in the temple, with all its cul-
tural differences, has turned out to
be "kind of like studying abroad"
itself.
"I'm definitely more mindful,"
she said. "I might get caught up in
school issues ... but being here, it's
just kind of like,'Stop. It's going to
be OK."'
-BRANDON CONRADIS

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
A musical in the mall
If the cast of "High School Musi-
cal" ever decided to join forces with
a comedy troupe, the result might
be something like this - minus the
teeny hboppers hyperventilating at
the sight of Zac Efron.
A production from the group
ImprovEverywhere, titled "Food
Court Musical," the video opens with
a screen of text declaring the group's
mission "to create a spontaneous
musical out of nowhere." The group
is about to test its mettle in the mall
food court.
The group's act begins when an
employee at an eatery spills a glass
of lemonade on the counter. Instead
of cleaning it up, she breaks out in
song, singing "there's ice and lemons
everywhere, and I've got to clean it
up!" Dressed in a yellow, red, white
and blue uniform (including hat),
she laments the fact that she only has
three napkins. Soon enough, a dozen
people are united in song, belting out
their plea for more napkins.
The best part of this video is with-
out adoubt the reactions ofthe people
sitting at the tables in the food court.
They are perplexed and taken aback,
embarrassed and indignant. They
roll their eyes and stare in disbelief at
the absurdity of this spectacle.
Perhaps the only thing that could
make this more unbelievable is a Zac
Efron guest appearance.
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos of the week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily

BY THE NUMBERS

Number of students who applied to Harvard this year
Number of students who applied last year
Number of spots in the freshman class

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Chinese New Year Party - Whether you knew
it or not, Monday marked the start of the Chinese
New Year. The Year of the Ox has officially begun,
and this calls for celebration. Of course, Chinese
astrologers are saying that prospects for the Year of
Ox look dismal. But that's even more of a reason to
distract yourself with fireworks and dim sum.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Women who use "I" in IMs are happier with mates
The more often young women use the pronoun "I" in their instant
ntessages, the happier they are with their partners, according to a study
published last month in the journal Personal Relationships by research-
era at UCLA.
In the study, the researchers examined 10 days of IM conversations
from nearly 70 couples who had been together for about a year and a
half and had an average age of 19. The researchers also asked the couples
questions about their relationship satisfaction.
After six months, the couples reported back whether they were still
dating. Then, the researchers analyzed the IM conversations again, tak-
ing note of the use of pronouns and the emotional words.
The researchers concluded that women who frequently used "I" in
the conversations were 30 percent more likely to still be in a relationship
than those who didn't. The study showed that men are also more satis-
fied with their relationship when women use "I."
- BRIAN TENGEL

WRITE FOR THE STATEMENT

E-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com





The Michigan Daily- Wednesday, January 28, 2009

0

0

0

0

0

a

I Wednesday, January 28, 2009 - The Michigan Daily 5B



HOW STUDENTS CONVINCED ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATORS THAT MAKING'
R NEW SCHOOL GREEN IS GOOD BUSINESS. BY LISA HAIDOSTIA. PHOTS Y SAM WOLL0

THE

the dark marble countertops and heavy
wood-paneled doors of the new Ross School of Business
building's bathrooms, the electric green handles on the
toilets seema little out of place.
Coated to resist germs, the handle can be pushed
either up or down, creating a high-intensity or low-in-
tensity flush. The dual-flush toilets, estimated to reduce
water consumption by as much as 67 percent, are just
one example of the eco-friendly features included
throughout the building.
The new Tappan Street landmark has been officially
open for nearly a month, but the buzz surrounding it
has barely dimmed. Its modern, rust-colored exterior
sits in sharp contrast to nearby buildings like the col-
legial, ivy-coated buildings in the Law Quad. And any
LSA student must be a little envious of the three-story
atrium and 7,500-square-foot fitness center.
But while the bold design and exceptional facilities
have garnered the most attention, the most noteworthy
aspect of the building might be in its environmentally-
conscious features.
Featuring huge skylights above the main atrium,
the 270,000-square-foot building takes advantage of
natural light while using high-efficiency electricity and
daylight-dimming systems. Some of its roof is covered
with soil and plants to insulate the building, filter rain-
fall and improve air quality by trapping impurities.
Receptacles throughout the building are dedicated
to recycling cans and paper, and the building also has
non-toxic carpets and waterless urinals. The walls are
covered with low-VOC (volatile organic compound)
paint, which reduces the emission of air pollutants and
greenhouse gases.
And from the start, 94 percent of demolition debris
and 50 percent of debris from construction was recy-
cled.
Though the paperwork hasn't yet been submitted,
administrators will apply for LEERD (Leadership in
Environmental and Energy Design) certification and
expect to achieve the Silver level. By no means a nation-
al stand out - silver is only second out of four levels of
certification - the Rossbuilding's biggest achievement
might be to set a new standard for University build-
ings.
The Dana Building, home of the School of Natural
Resources and the Environment, is the only campus
building to date that has received a LEED certification,
attaining the Gold level.
0 This latest addition to campus suggests that envi-,
ronmentally conscious construction may now be the
norm for University projects. Students and faculty have
begun to demand greener standards for campus devel-

opment - and in the case of the Business School, have
succeeded.
"This was a watershed moment in changing how we
design buildings at the University of Michigan," said
University alum Brian Swett, who was one of several
graduate students in the Erb Institute for Global Sus-
tainable Enterprise who pushed for the LEERD certifica-
tion of the Business School.
Prof. Tom Lyon, Director of the Erb Institute, said
it's especially important for business schools to achieve
LEED certification because so many of the employers
who recruit MBA and BBA students are doing so them-
selves.
"I think the fact that we got it LEED certified makes
a very important statement because it says you're really
on the cutting edge of what businesses should be doing
in the future," said Graham Mercer, assistant dean of
the Ross school.
But the national benchmark for green construction
has gotten so high that even with the steps it's taken,
the Business School remains far from the environmen-
tal cutting edge.
The new Stanford Business School campus, set to
open in 2010, is seeking the highest possible Platinum
level LEED certification, as will the Glendale, Arizona-
based Thunderbird School of Global Management.
MIT's forthcoming Sloan School of Management
will be solar-ready, allowing for the installation of solar
panels at a later date, and New York University's Stern
School of Business provides bottle filling stations to
encourage students to reuse their water bottles.
"We should not be tooting our own horns, and we're
not taking a leadership role at all," Swett said, adding
that the University of Michigan has a "terrible record
of building green."
Save for the Dana Building, which features solar pan-
els and composting toilets, the University of Michigan
has lagged in environmentally-conscious construction.
Though its College Sustainability Report Card grade
for green building rose from a C in 2007 to a B in 2008
and 2009, schools like the University of Virginia, the
University of California at Berkeley and the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill each scored an A in the
category in the last two years.
Sue Gott, a planner who worked on site consider-
ations for the new building, insisted that green con-
struction is a main priority for the University even if
LEED certification isn't obtained due to administrative
costs.
"In anything that we are designing, we look for ways

to be energy conscious and we look for sustainability approached the administration with "literally a binder
opportunities," she said. of resources." The student team of "rabble rousers," as
Swett called them, wanted to prove to the administra-
tion that the price premium for achieving the certifica-
According to several professors and students tion was not prohibitively high. Though some contend
involved in the building's initial planning phases, Uni- the cost of LEED certifying a building can be up to 25
versity administrators, architects and the New York percent of the total cost, Lyon, with the Erb Institute,
City-based architectural firm Kohn Pedersen Fox ini- said those estimates are far off base, with extra costs
tially resisted certifying the building due to the extra usually being less than one percent.
expense. "The numbers are not huge," said Prof. Andy Hoff-
The LEED system faces criticism for not only add- man, an associate director of the Erb Institute. In a
ing costs in the form of paperwork, extra research and paper he co-authored, Hoffman cited several recent
LEED consultants, but also employing a too-rigid point studies showing that when lowered operating costs
system. For example, the green roofs of the Ross build- are taken into account, the construction and certifica-
ing - while no doubt environ- tion costs of green building
mentally beneficial - do not and standard buildings are
count toward a LEED certifi- - - - negated by savings in ener-
cation. M-A R R , RtS2 H A O N gy costs within years.
Despite itsfaults, the system .- - Mercer said the cost of
is still widely well-regarded ' - '- - H - R certifying the Ross project
because it helps force builders W U C N was one percent of the $110
to think more broadly about million total construction
environmental options. It V . cost, which would mean a
also serves as an recognizable hefty $L1 million.
yardstick for green buildings nationwide. At the very In meetings with Ross administrators, the Erb stu-
least,ea LEED certification generates good publicity. dents presented case studies, best practices and options
"It would have been tremendously embarrassing if for materials. One student took Business School Assis-
Ross had opened with less than the Silver, given what tant Dean Graham Mercer, who headed the project, on
our competition is doing," Swett said. a tour of the LEED certified Ford Rouge plant in Dear-
Several Erb Institute students started a petition for born.
the Ross building to achieve LEED certification and set After a few meetings, Magnus said the administra-
up meetings with Ross administrators to make their tion shifted from being "skeptically interested to sin-
case for it. cerely interested" in pursuing the certification.
"We just kind of took it on as a personal mission that "The Erb students were the instrumental factor in
we wanted to convince the leadership of the business moving the school to go for LEED certification," Lyon
school that they should consider making the build- said. Magnus said the administration "definitely hadn't
ing LEED," said University alum Bryan Magnus, who considered" achieving the LEED label.
was one of the first Erb students to begin research- "To their credit, the deans at Ross really listened to
ing sustainable options for the building. He said they what the students had to say," Lyon said. "Once they
,YY t fI

decided to pursue LEED certification, they've been very
enthusiastic about it and really followed through."
Mercer said that although the administration was
"still debating" whether to certify the building when
the Erb students first approached them, greening the
building was a stated objective from the start.
"Our goal was always to make it an environmentally-
friendly building," he said. "We wanted to make some
sort of statement that this is important."
Mercer said a reason they decided to follow through
with the certification was so students and employers
would know the extent of the building's green fea-
tures.
"You can throw an awful lot of money into a build-
ing trying to get to some esoteric level with not a lot of
gain," he said.
Of course, a lot of the decisions on what could and
couldn't be made green came down to money. Swett
said that by the time he got involved in the project,
there were significantbudget constraints.
"The costs very quickly were running out of con-
trol," he said. "They were open to suggestions, but not
at added costs. From a green perspective, it inhibits a
little bit what you can do."
But Mercer said that when plans had to be shifted
around budget crunches, environmental features were
never scrapped.
"We said we're not doing it because that's a big part
of the building, a big part of the design - we've got to
leave it alone," he said.
Unless two separate plans had been drawn up - one
with LEED certification and the other without it - one
could only guess at how much of the building's price tag
the green attributes actually made up.
See BUSINESS SCHOOL, Page 8B

(LEFT and RIGHT) The three-story atrium inside the new Ross School of Business building. (FAR LEFT) Special tiles on the
building's exterior insulate the building to save energy.


