c Illic1 i an ail..V

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, January 7, 2009

michigandaily.com

COURSE EVALUATIONS
Online
evals go
smoothly

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Ann Arbor resident Nick Jacobsen smokes a cigarette yesterday inside Fleetwood Diner. Despite expectations that a bill to ban smoking in public places would pass during
the Michigan legislature's lame-duck session, the state House and Senate failed to reach a compromise on two separate bills late last month.
Public s-mokingbastle

Participation holds
steady as surveys
go paperless
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily Staff Reporter
Bolstered bystrongencourage-
ment in classrooms and e-mail
inboxes, about 25,000 students
participated in the University's
first set of online course evalua-
tions.
According to James Kulik,
director of the Office of Evalua-
tions and Exams, that translates
to about 72 percent of students
taking the time to fill out at least
one course evaluation.
Despite concerns that a shift
from the in-class paper format
to online surveys would lead to
lackluster participation, 60-per-
cent of all the online evaluations
were filled out. In past years,
when evaluations were done on
paper, roughly 64-percent of the
evaluations were completed.
The new system follows schools
like Northwestern University and
Brigham Young University, who
have had electronic course evalu-
ations in place for years. Kulik said
like these schools, he expects par-
ticipation numbers to grow in time.
While turnout numbers were
on par with previous years, the
launch wasn't without glitches.
"This was our maiden voyage,
and you expect to learn things the
first time out," Kulik said.
Technical problems caused
delays in the automated e-mail
system, which led to an exten-
sion on the deadline for submis-

sion. Additionally, professors and
departments have yet to receive
reports on the evaluations, which
were initially scheduled to become
available on Dec. 22. Kulik said the
reports shouldbe available shortly.
While the paperless evalua-
tions were intended to be easier
and more efficient,oneofthemain
selling points was the program's
environmental appeal. But, many
teachers asked students to print
off confirmation provingtheyhad
completedthesurveys- arequest
that conflicted with the effort to
save paper. Kulik said possible
solutions to the problem include
e-mail receipts that students can
forward to instructors or faculty
access to alist of the names of stu-
dents who have submitted.
"We have to get instructors
more information about how
things are going, and when stu-
dents are responding online,"
Kulik said. "At a minimum we
want to let them know how many
students have responded at any
given time so that they know
whether to bug students to get
in their evaluations or thank stu-
BY THE NUMBERS
25,000
Students participatedonline
60'
Percentof all the online evaluations
were filledout
64
Percent of the evaluations were
completed on paper in past years
See EVALUATIONS, Page 7A

Despite expectations,
state legislature can't
reach agreement on
smoking ban
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
State lawmakers tried to change
Michigan's status as one of 15 states
without a smoking ban before the
legislature adjourned on December
19, but the attempt ended with a stale-
mate in Lansing. The state House
and Senate approved the ban in two
different forms, but couldn't reach a
compromise between the two.
On May 8, the Republican-con-
trolled Senate voted 25-12 to pass
an absolute ban prohibiting smok-

ing in all indoor public places. But
on May 29-, the House of Represen-
tatives, under Democratic control,
approved a bill by a vote of 65-39
to ban smoking only in restaurants
and bars and make exceptions for
casinos and smoke shops.
An agreement on the bill was
never reached before the end of the
legislature's lame duck session in
December.
State Rep. Pam Byrnes (D-Lyn-
don Township) said the deadlock
came from lawmakers that had dif-
fering opinions about the right to
smoke in public places.
"The differences between the
House and Senate versions of this
legislation were not so much a mat-
ter of partisan politics as it was an
ideological discussion," Byrnes said
in an e-mail.
Now there is uncertainty among

legislators about whether the bill
will be reintroduced in the 2009
congressional session or if it will be
placed on the ballot for state resi-
dents to vote on int2010.
Byrnes, who supported the more
far-reaching Senate version of the
bill over the House version, said she
would be willing to compromise on
the issue if it comes up for reconsid-
eration in the House.
"I am hopeful that the legisla-
ture will revisit this issue in the
coming legislative session," Byrnes
said. "While I support a ban with
no exemption, I would be willing
to support a compromise, as I feel
it is important to have some level of
protection in place for employees."
Though the ballot initiative
would likely pass in 2010, Byrnes
said she hoped lawmakers would
pass a bill on a ban during the

upcoming legislative session.
"Puttingthisissueontheballotfor
voters to decide is always an option,"
Byrnes said. "But I would hope that
the legislature would take action
before that became necessary."
Though there is strong support
for a smoking ban - which Byrnes
described as "overwhelming" in her
district - the issue is still contro-
versial. Many establishments, espe-
cially casinos and bars, argue that a
ban would be bad for businesses and
drive away customers who smoke.
At Ann Arbor's Fleetwood Diner,
located at the corner of Ashley
Street and Liberty Street, manager
Aviva Woodward echoed the con-
cerns of casino and bar owners dur-
ingan interviewwith The Michigan
Daily in November. Woodward
said business would likely suffer if
See SMOKING BAN, Page 7A

FRATERNITY BREAK-IN
State St. fraternity
robbed and flooded

A
bro
into

Mem
ternity
to find t
house a
hosts vo
lawn, s
flood an
the sam
Home
the hou
Dec. 23
Police
Ellinger
of the br
Dec. 23.
A ne
Ann Arb
break-in
When I
they fou
glarized
ken wat
flooding
els of th

lpha Delta Phi In addition, Max Barack, the out-
going president of ADPhi, said sever-
thers move back al things were stolen from the house.
A complete list of stolen items is still
damaged house yet to be determined, but according
to Barack, expensive items like tele-
By NICOLE ABER visions, DVD players and speakers
Daily StaffReporter were reported missing.
According to the police, it is still
bers of Alpha Delta Phi fra- unclear whether the burglary and
came back from winter break the flood are related.
heir house in shambles. The "It can't be determined whether
t 556 S. State St., which often it was from the cold temperature or
olleyball games on its front whether the window was broken,"
uffered damage from both a Ellinger said. "We don't know."
d a burglary that occurred in Barack said many of the rooms
e week. have been damaged because of the
e to 18 fraternity brothers, break-in, and certain walls have
se was broken into between been torn down in order to repair the
and Dec. 27, said Ann Arbor pipes.
Detective Amy Ellinger. Although officials initially deemed
added that the last time any the house unsuitable for living, the
others were in the house was fraternity brothers have moved back
in this week, Barack said.
arby resident notified the "There was a brief time where it
bor Police Department of the was deemed unlivable. We consid-
on Dec. 27, Ellinger said. ered that as an alternative option,
police arrived at the house but ultimately that's not going to be
und a broken window, bur- forced upon us now," Barack said.
i bedrooms and several bro- Barack added that contrac-
ter pipes, which resulted in tors have been working to repair
on the upper and main lev- the damages since they were first
e house. See FRATERNITY, Page 7A

M-Den to
take over
empty
storefront
Apparel retailer will fill
space vacated by bankrupt
Steve and Barry's
By LINDY STEVENS
Daily News Editor
The former Steve and Barry's storefront on
State Street won't be vacant for long. M-Den,
the locally owned retailer of University appar-
el and souvenirs, officially took possession of
the building Jan. 5 - two days after Steve and
Barry's closed its doors.
A number of businesses, including CVS
Pharmacy, were interested in the location
according to Ed Davidson, the building's
landlord. Despite other offers, Davidson
said he only considered M-Den for the
space.
"There was no contest," Davidson said in an
e-mail. "I thought M-Den was the best fit and
called them early on."
Davidson said he first contacted M-Den
about the space after Steve and Barry's

People walk by the shuttered storefront of Steve and Barry's yesterday. M-Den, another University apparel
retailer, took control of the store on Monday, but the store's officials are not yet sure when it will open.

national chain filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
in July. When the retailer filed for Chapter 7
bankruptcy in November - effectively shut-
ting down the company - Davidson said
M-Den made plans to move in.
Though M-Den officially took possession of
the property on Monday, plans for the space
haven't been solidified, said Doug Horning, a
spokesman for M-Den.
Details regarding renovations and an
official opening day for the store will be
released at a later date, Horning said in an
e-mail.
The new store will be the latest addition
to Ann Arbor M-Den locations, with one on
Main Street and another in Briarwood Mall.
The State Street M-Den location will com-
pete for customers in the market for Univer-

sity gear with Great Lakes Team Apparel and
Moe's Sport Shops, both located nearby.
Robert Duerksen, owner of Great Lakes
Team Apparel, said the new M-Den came as a
surprise. Though he said it would have been
nice to have one less competitor on the block,
Duerksen said he suspected his store would
fill the void in low-cost apparel left by Steve
and Barry's - formerly his biggest rival, he
said.
"I think we'll become the place for that val-
ue-conscious customer looking for a $10 tee,"
Duerksen said.
But despite a slow economy and a hand-
ful of competitors within walking distance
of his store, Duerksen said he thinks there
will be enough customers to support all the
See M-DEN, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 29
TOMORROW :10 20

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news o michigandaily.com and let us know.

ON THE DAILY BLOGS
See how the Big Ten's hoops teams stack up
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S................................2A CLASSIFIEDS.. . ............ 6A
Vol. CXIX, No. 68 OPINION .............. ..... .....4A SPO RTS ....B..........................1B
009TheMchiganDaily ARTS.. . . .......5A THE STATEMENT........t........1C
michigondoilycom

4

k


4

2A - Wednesday, January 7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MOVING BACK IN

When grades aren't on time

It's a University-wide
policy that professors sub-
mit their final grades with-
in 72 hours of giving their
final exams, but University
administrators don't enforce
the policy.
Instead the deans of indi-
vidual schools are charged
with making sure professors
get their grades in on time.
Alan Deardorff, associ-
ate dean at the Gerald Rt.
Ford School of Public Policy,
said he has no written list of
punishments, but if a faculty
member repeatedly submits
grades late, he said he would
sit down with that person to
see how to meet the deadline.
Deardorff added that he
hasn't seen any problems
with the system so far.
"We haven't had problems
with it that I'm aware of," he
CRIME NOTES

said.
Deardorff said the Ford
School has a large staff that
can helps ensure grades are
processed quickly.
"We care a great deal about
whether (students) get their
grades in a timely fashion,"
he said.
Deardorff said that a
reminder of the policy is sent
to faculty prior to the exam
periods and that staff moni-
tor to make sure grades are
submitted.
Deardorff said any delay
in grades typically results
from professors thinking
they submitted grades when
they hadn't. Staff then help
process the grades.
"This doesn't mean that
all the grades get in under
the 72-hour deadline," he
said. "A lot of our courses

involve papers rather than
an exam, and papers could~
take quite a while to grade if2
you do it well."
University spokeswom-
an Kelly Cunningham said
that although each school
has direct responsibility for
enforcingtheir own policies,
central administration helps
schools ensure that grades
are submitted on time.
"U-M facultygradingpro-
cedures are administered
in academic units, schools
and colleges, rather than by
central administration," she
said in an e-mail interview.
"However, central admin-
istration joins the units in
encouraging faculty to meet
the grade submission dead-
line each semester." MAX COLLINS/ D
Residential College freshman Sophia Mannisto moves into her East Quad resi-
KYLE SWANSON dence with the assistance ofther mom Nancy and little sister Aili.
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES r E

(Me N'chgan Bailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-055
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom oficehours:Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaiy.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
734-763.0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
D73s-763-0379
Sports Section sports@nmichigandailyncom
Display Sales display@michigandailyecom
Classified Sales classifed@michiandailycom
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineade@michigandaily.com
finance finance@michgandaitycon
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaiy.oom
JacobSniloVitZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@rnichigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: JillianBerman,TrevorCalero,Julie Rowe,LindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoer,KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTA NT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
ColtsRosenweig
DavidWatnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SNtOARS EDIORS Je Bn~lck,eradonCoai, Witne ow
ASSTANTATS EDTOSoshaBe, AndrewLapien,eReeBenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaiy.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidM Asalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, SamWolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
MaureenStych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica VOsgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandailycom
KatherineMitlchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvneisingSatles Manaee
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski classified sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Daniel Cheung Finance Manager
The Micigan Daily (SsN 0745-967)is published Monday through Fridayiduringthe fall and i:ter
Adi onalcopismaybepiepatthea icefo2.epiotsor fall term ,srtin
Septembervia U.S.mailare$t1.inter term(Januarythrough Apiist$11syearongseptember
through Apr)is $195.University afilates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
bscriptiosforfalltermare$s crioptin ustbeprepaid.TheMichiganDailyisamembero
TheAoci~ated ss arnd esoiatrteCllegie res.

Laptop lifted Buick, Dodge Socialist group
from Chem collide in lot to discuss war
building WHERE: 512 Thompson in Israel

WHERE: Chemistry Building
WHEN: Monday at aboutt:45
p.m.
WHAT: A laptop of unknown
value was stolen between Dec.
24 and Dec. 27, University
Police reported. Police have no
suspects at this time.

WHEN: Monday at about 7:45
WHAT: One vehicle backed
into another vehicle in lot
W-18, University Police
reported. The cars sustained
minor injuries, but there were
no human injuries.

WHAT: A meeting of the
International Students for
Social Equality to discuss
Israel's recent military
strikes in Gaza
WHO: International Stu-
dents for Social Equality
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Room C, The

iPod stolen from Couple splits for Michigan League
patient's room in a day after Student leads
hospital scuffle in dorm talk on S. Africa

Tango boot
camp
WHAT: An intensive boot
camp for students interested
in learning the Tango
WHO: M Tango
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to midnight
WHERE: Wolverine ABC,
Michigan Union
Swing dance
lessons
WHAT: Wednesday night
swing dance lessons.
WHO: Swing Ann Arbor
WHEN: Tonight from 7:30
p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
WHERE: Pendleton Room,
Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The city of Sertaozinho,
Brazil is erecting a 128
foot statue of Jesus Christ
in to eclipse the 125-foot stat-
ue in Rio de Janeiro, Reuters
reported. The statue will be
inaugurated on Easter Sun-
day.
During fundraising
efforts, the Univer-
sity sometimes receives
donations that officials deem
inappropriate. One such
inappropriate gift: a taxider-
my wolverine. It frequently
rejects these donations.
FOR MORE,
SEE THE STATEMENT, PAGE 6C
Hazel Whitt Mitchell,
a 73-year-old woman
from Gwinnett County,
Ga. turned herself into police
after readingshe was want-
ed in California for stealing
$300,000, The Atlanta Jour-
nal-Consitution reported.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Tuesday at about 2:05
a.m.
WHAT: A 30-gigabyte black
iPod was stolen from a patient's
room in the main hospital,
University Police reported. The
iPod was valued at $250. Police
have no suspects at this time.

WHERE: Northwood IV
WHEN: Monday at about 1:55
p.m.
WHAT: A male and female
who are dating got into a verbal
argument in their residence
hall, University Police reported.
Both parties agreed to separate
for the day. No assault or fe-
ther problems were reported.

WHAT: An informal talk on
the exhibit "Apartheid and
Resistance." PhD candidate
Monica E. Patterson will lead
the talk.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Tomorrow from 12
p.m. to 1 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Lobby,
Hatcher Graduate Library




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 7, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 7, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Gupta considered
for surgeon general
position
President-elect Barack Obama
has approached CNN's chief medi-
cal correspondent, Sanjay Gupta,
to be the country's next surgeon
general, the cable network said yes-
terday.
CNN said it has kept Gupta from
reporting on health care policy and
other matters involving the incom-
ing Obama administration since
learning he was under consider-
ation for the post.
Two Democrats with knowl-
edge of the discussions over the
surgeon general spot said Gupta
was under consideration but cau-
tioned there was not yet a final
decision on who would fill the
post. They spoke on condition of
anonymity because they were not
authorized to speak to the media
on the matter.
Obama's transition office did not
immediately respond to requests
for comment.
Gupta hosts "House Call" on
CNN and contributes reports to
CBS News.
JERUSALEM
Israel agrees to
"humanitarian
corridor" in Gaza
Israel says it has agreed to set
up a "humanitarian corridor" to
ship vital supplies to the people of
the Gaza Strip.
The office of Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert says in a statement
that the humanitarian corridor
idea came from the U.N. Security
Council, and he accepted it.
Under the plan, Israel would
suspend attacks in specified areas
of Gaza to allow the people to
get supplies. The statement early
today said the goal was to "pre-
vent a humanitarian crisis in the
Gaza Strip."
Israel insists it has allowed
enough supplies into the terri-
tory during 11 days of conflict,
but the U.N. says there is already
a humanitarian crisis there
because of shortages of food, fuel
and medicine.
WASHINGTON
Reps. Schauer,
Peters sworn into
U.S. House
Michigan's new members of
Congress saidyesterdaytheyhoped
to use their committee assignments
to give the state's ragged economy a
needed boost.
Democrats Mark Schauer and
Gary Peters were sworn into the
U.S. House, joining a large class
of freshmen lawmakers who are
expected to act on a multibillion-
dollar economic stimulus plan dur-
ing the first weeks of President-elect
Barack Obama's administration.
"I'm ready to get to work," said
Schauer, of Battle Creek.
Schauer, the former minor-

ity leader in the state Senate, was
selected to serve on the House
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, which will shepherd
road and bridge construction proj-
ects considered a key part of the
stimulus package.
Peters, a former state senator
and state lottery commissioner,;
was chosen for a seat on the House
Financial Services Committee,
which took a lead role in shap-
ing the $700 billion bailout of
the financial sector last fall and a
separate aid package for domestic
automakers.
WASHINGTON
Feinstein says
Senate should seat
Blagojevich's pick
The chairman of the Senate
Rules Committee has parted with
many of her Democratic colleagues
and says that the Senate should seat
former Illinois Attorney General
Roland Burris.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein of Cali-
fornia said yesterday that Illinois
Gov. Rod Blagojevich, however
tainted by corruption charges, has
the right to appoint someone to
President-elect Barack Obama's
former seat. The Rules Committee
decides whether Burris is qualified
to serve.
Feinstein said that blocking
Burris would have ramifications
for other governors' appoint-
ments.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports
A

France, Egypt push
for Gaza cease-fire

(PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAI/AP>
Members of the House of Representatives of the 111th Congress, accompanied by family members and guests, are sworn in at
the House Chamber on Capitol Hill in Washington.
New Congress vows to fix
crisis-rdden -ieconomy

At least 30
Palestinians left
dead after mortar
shells explode
GAZA CITY, Gaza (AP) -
France and Egypt announced an
initiative to stop the fighting in
Gaza late yesterday, hours after
Israeli mortar shells exploded
near a U.N. school sheltering hun-
dreds of people displaced by the
onslaught on Hamas militants. At
least 30 Palestinians died, staining
streets with blood.
FrenchForeign MinisterBernard
Kouchner released no details of the
cease-fire plan, saying at the U.N.
Security Council that the presi-
dents of his country and Egypt were
awaiting aresponse from Israel.
Israeli officials in Jerusalem
declined immediate comment on
the announcement, which came
amid diplomatic efforts by the U.S.
and other nations to resolve a con-
flict between Israel and the Islam-
ic militants of Hamas that has seen
600 people killed in11days.
President-elect Barack Obama
broke his silence on the crisis
Tuesday, saying that "the loss of
civilian life in Gaza and in Israel is
a source of deep concern for me."
He declined to go further, reiter-
ating his stance that the U.S. has
only one president at a time.

Israel's military said its shelling
at the school - the deadliest single
episode since Israeli ground forces
invaded Gaza on Saturday after a
week of air bombardment - was a
response to mortar fire from with-
in the school and said Mamas mili-
tants were using civilians as cover.
Two residents of the area
who spoke with The Associated
Press by telephone said they saw
a small group of militants firing
mortar rounds from a street near
the school, where 350 people had
gathered to get away from the
shelling. They spoke on condition
of anonymity for fear of reprisal.
Majed Hamdan, an AP pho-
tographer, rushed to the scene
shortly after the attacks. At the
hospital, he said, many children
were among the dead.
"I saw women and men - par-
ents - slapping their faces in
grief, screaming, some of them
collapsed to the floor. They knew
their children were dead," he
said. "In the morgue, most of the
killed appeared to be children. In
the hospital, there wasn't enough
space for the wounded."
He said there appeared to be
marks on the pavement of five sepa-
rate explosions in area of the school.
An Israeli defense official,
speaking on condition of anonym-
ity because he was not allowed to
make the information public, said
it appeared the military used 120-
mm shells.

Burris kept from
claiming seat in
Senate
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
Capitol rang loud with vows to fix
the crisis-ridden economy yesterday
as Congress opened for business at
the dawn of a new Democratic era.
"We need action and we need action
now," said Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Republicans agreed, and
pledged cooperation in Congress
as well as with President-elect
Barack Obama - to a point.
On a day largely devoted to cer-
emony, new members of Congress
and those newly re-elected swore to
defend the Constitution. The Senate
galleries were crowded; children
and grandchildren of lawmakers
squirmed in their seats in the House
chamber as the winners in last fall's
elections claimed their prizes.
One office-seeker was not
among them.
In a scripted bit of political the-
ater, Democrat Roland Burris of
Illinois was informed he would
not be seated because his paper-
work was not in order. He pledged
a lawsuit, the latest twist in a
political drama that began when
he was named to Obama's Sen-
ate seat by Gov. Rod Blagojevich,

who has been charged with having
attempted to sell the appointment.
Obama was across town in a
meeting with his economic advis-
ers as the opening gavels fell in
the House and Senate at noon. His
inauguration as the nation's first
black president is two weeks away.
Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, a veteran of numerous battles
with President George W. Bush,
made plain how glad he was the old
administration was winding down.
"We are ready to answer the
call of the American people by put-
ting the past eight years behind us
and delivering the change that our
country desperatelyneeds,"he said
on the Senate floor. We are grate-
ful to begin anew with a far more
robust Democratic majority."
At the same time, in comments
directed at Republicans, he said,
"we are in this together" when it
comes to the economy, the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, health care
and the country's energy needs.
Sen. Mitch McConnell of Ken-
tucky, the Republican leader, replied
in a speech of his own, saying, "The
opportunities for cooperation are
numerous." He said Democrats
should avoid a "reckless rush to meet
anarbitrarydeadline" topass aneco-
nomic stimulus bill that could reach
$1 trillion, and he outlined possible
changes in the approach Obama and

the Democratic congressional lead-
ers have been considering.
Among themwas a proposal to
cut taxes by 10 percent. Another
was to lend money to hard-pressed
state governments rather than
give it to them. "States will be far
less likely to spend it frivolously"
in that case, he said.
By the new political calculus,
McConnell will soon be the most
powerful Republican in government
after elections that handed Demo-
crats the White House and left them
with gains of least seven seats in the
Senate and 21 in the House.
McConnell's counterpart in
the House, Republican leader
John Boehner of Ohio, handed
the speaker's gavel to Pelosi in a
traditional unity tableau. He, too,
pledged cooperation, then said,
"America's potential is unlimited.
But government's potential is not.
We must not confuse the two."
Obama spent much of Monday
in the Capitol, conferring with
Republicans and Democrats alike
on the economic stimulus measure
he hopes to sign early in his term.
The nation's consumer spending
has plummeted, manufacturing
has withered and job losr h nsc
grown in recent months, adding
urgency to the legislative effort in
contrast to the customary sluggish
start to a new Congress.

WANT TO WORK FOR THE
DA ILY?
COME TO ONE OF OUR MASS
MNE ETINGS.
SUNDAY, JAN. 11, 8 P.M.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 14, 8 P.M.
TUESDAY, JAN. 20,8 P.M.


Coleman files lawsuit over
Minnesota recount results

Lawsuit alleges
Canvassing Board
made mistakes
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) - Repub-
lican Norm Coleman filed a lawsuit
yesterday challenging Democrat
Al Franken's apparent recount
victory in Minnesota's U.S. Senate
race, delaying a resolution of the
contest for weeks or months.
At a Capitol news conference
filled with cheering supporters,
Coleman said he won't accept a
board's determination a day ear-
lier that Franken captured 225
more votes in the November elec-
tion. He had a seven-day window
to file the lawsuit.
"We are filing this contest to
make absolutely sure every valid
vote was counted and no one's was
counted more than anyone else's,"
Coleman said.
Coleman shrugged off the idea
that he might concede the election
to avoid a protracted fight thatcould
leave Minnesota with only a single
senator in Washington for months.
"Something greater than expe-
diency is at stake here," Coleman
said. He added: "Democracy is not
a machine. Sometimes it's messy
and inconvenient, and reaching
the best conclusion is never quick
because speed is not the first
objective, fairness is."
State law prevents officials from
issuing an election certificate until
legal matters are resolved.
Franken attorney Marc Elias
called Coleman's lawsuit "essential-
ly the same thin gruel, warmed-over
leftovers from meals we've all been
served over the lastfew weeks."
He said that Coleman has the
right to sue, but that doesn't mean
his claims have merit, and he is
confident Franken would prevail.
Franken e-mailed supporters
Tuesday to request donations to
continue the fight, just as Coleman
did a day earlier.
Coleman, whose term expired
Saturday, led Franken by 215 votes
in the Nov. 4 count but that advan-
tage flipped during a prolonged
recount.
In going to court, Coleman
has three big challenges: raising

money to pay escalatinglegal bills,
proving the election was flawed
and managing the public's desire
to have the race over.
"They definitely have an uphill
fight on their hands," said Guy-
Uriel Charles, a professor of elec-
tion and constitutional law at the
University of Minnesota. "Their
legal theory will have to overcome
a burden of proof, and then they
have to find enough votes to over-
come Franken's lead."
That could prove difficult, since
any bloc of new votes would almost
surely include some for Franken,
who declared victory Monday.
A lawsuit gives both sides
options they lacked during the
recount, such as accessing voter
rolls, inspecting machines and
introducing testimony from elec-
tion workers.
Coleman's filing includes some
of the points his lawyers have
been making for weeks. It centers
mainly on claims that hundreds
of rejected absentee ballots from
Republican-leaning areas should
have been part of the recount, that
some ballots in Democratic terri-
tory were counted twice and that
election officials were wrong to
use machine tallies for a Minne-
apolis precinct where ballots went
missing.
But there are new angles, too.
The lawsuit alleges that the
Canvassing Board made mistakes
when determining voter intent on
challenged ballots, that ineligible
voters cast ballots and that some
absentee ballots were erroneously
opened early, raising chain-of-
custody concerns.
A race that was a couple of
years in the making - Franken
announced his campaign in Feb-
ruary 2007 - is now two months
past Election Day.
The case would fall to a three-
judge panel selected by Chief Jus-
tice Eric Magnuson of the state
Supreme Court, an appointee of
Republican Gov. Tim Pawlenty and
a member of the Canvassing Board.
The costs of the election law-
suit fall to the losing campaign,
although state law could require
various units of government to
foot the bill if their errors or irreg-
ularities lead to a reversal.


Get paid to be an
IM Official for Rec Sports!

New officials must attend
Wed. January 7th
7:00 PM
IM Sports Building
Basketball
[nner Tube Water Polo
SMini Soccer
Contact Nicole Green
at 734.764.0515 or
nmgreen@umich.edu RT
SPORTS
for more information m nTaMuRASo

*


4

4A - Wednesday, January 7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
A promise to the students
Continuing a 119-year history of editorial freedom
ver the past 12 months - The Michigan Daily's 118th
year of editorial freedom - the spirit of campus activism
was truly reinvigorated as students became increasing-
ly involved in a climactic presidential election. Students decided
that the direction of the nation had to change and fought for that
change more energetically and aggressivelythanwe had in decades.
Thanks to our successful efforts to alter our political reality, the
ears of the nation are now listening to what college students think
"changing for the better" really means.

I look at the governor's problems
as his problems:'
- Ronald Burris, Gov. Rod Blagojevich's nominee for Illinois junior senator, explaining why he
should be allowed to be seated in the U.S. Senate, as reported yesterday by CNN.

a

MAX FABICK |

E-MAIL MAX AT FABICKM@UMICH.EDU
AND I Dou8T RoD
6LAGoJeVICH CAN SEE
4 JTHAT HAIR.
AD ~ AL AePIoG N1ts
'rND NAVE AtoThuMG
FN To HIDE.

I
4

The fairer sex?

Because of these developments, college
students' ideas are as relevant as ever. Now
that students have once again demonstrated
that their activism can have historic results
on the world around them, it is critically
important to discuss how we want our world
to change. The Michigan Daily's opinion
page is one of the forums in which that dis-
cussion is most vital.
Throughout the paper's history, the Daily
has fulfilled a dual purpose: sponsoring the
debate over how our society can and must
change and providing an informed view from
the paper itself on the changes that are most
urgently needed. The opinion page's method
for revealing its thoughts about relevant top-
ics are the editorials that appear on the left
side of the page. They contain the historical
wisdom of editors and the fresh ideas of the
paper's current and diverse staff. I promise
that the Daily's editorials will provide essen-
tial guidance for campus discussion.
Traditionally, the Daily's voice has been
thought of as liberal, but that is a mislead-
ing label. We argue passionately for the con-
servation of the world around us. We stand
firmly behind social equality for all people
regardless of race, gender or orientation. We
critically and independently evaluate the
actions of the institutions around us - be
they University administrators or our local,
state and national governments.
My goal is to address the issues that are
most relevant to the University and Ann
Arbor. In the pursuit of this goal itwill some-
times be necessary to discuss national issues,
especially in light of the effect that overarch-

ing problems - like our faltering economy -
can have on students.
But this is only half of my promise on
behalf of the Daily. It is equally vital that
the opinion page is a forum for debate that
includes people from all parts of campus
and all angles of the political spectrum. It is
important to me that no viewpoint feels left
out from the Daily. Columnists have been
chosen specifically to represent alarge cross-
section of backgrounds, interests, topics and
agendas, but if none of our regular columnists
get across the message that's most important
to you, you should write a letter or submit a
viewpoint of your own.
In this historic time for the nation and for
student involvement in its affairs, it is up to
us to determine what changes we want to see
in the coming months at all levels of govern-
ment and facets of society. I promise that the
Daily's opinion page will serve as a vital tool
for hosting that debate. In return, I ask that
you, the readers, utilize this resource to its
fullest extent and help create something that
reflects your sentiments. This is - and will
continue to be - a paper that belongs to the
students of the University of Michigan.
Robert Soave
Editorial Page Editor

(tereotypes are funny things.We
know some are based on igno-
rance and hate. Whenthere was
an influx of Polish
immigrants com-
peting for jobs
around the turn
of the 20th cen-
tury, for example,
other disgruntled
workers claimed
that "all Poles
are dumb." SomeE
stereotypes are EILEEN
based on what is STAHL
perceived to be
true. Many Asian
cultures place a very high priority on
education, so the "Asians are smarter
than everyone else" stereotype was
born.
Whether good or bad, "fact" or
fabrication, stereotypes are unfair
because they are shortcuts. True,
some white people can't dance, but
I'm dating a white boy with the most
amazing sense of rhythm I've ever
seen. "Positive" stereotypes are just
as bad because they place unreason-
able expectations on people who hap-
pened to be born into a certain family.
How would you like to be the Asian
kid who sucks at math?
So this week, I'm going to do my
civic duty and tackle a "positive"
stereotype that is pervasive, unfair,
and - perhaps most importantly -
affects me personally: girls are neat
and tidy.
I cannot begin to describe how
untidy I am. You're fortunate that
you're reading this article in print
because my handwriting looks like it
belongs to a third grader on a sugar
high. My room looks like a combat
zone in which it was strategically
viable to plant a land mine in an
underwear drawer. Sometimes - and
I know this may shock readers - I do
not smell good.

It wasn't as if I didn't try to be neat,
but my childhood attempts always
ended in failure. When my class-
mates and I had to cut out pictures
for collages, mine came out looking
like they'd been attacked by paper
clip-sized wolverines. It was depress-
ing because I thought I was the only
messy one; I eyed the other girls'
papers enviously, marveling at their
flawless bubble letters, complete with
perfect tiny hearts dotting their I's.
Sometimes, in secret, I would prac-
tice "girl writing" in my journal,
desperately trying to reproduce that
beauty. No matter how long I spent,
my little hearts came out looking like
butts.
I thought I was one of an unfor-
tunate few, although girls I knew
well all seemed to have secret sloppy
habits. But it wasn't until I began to
frequent various online humor com-
munities that I began to suspect the
opposite. A common topic was the
horrific sights and smells found in
public restrooms, and there was no
shortage of input from people who
had at one point been forced to clean.
them.
On multiple occasions, the con-
sensus was that the ladies' room was
much grodier. I realized they could
be onto something. I've experienced
disgusting bathrooms from middle
school to Angell Hall: paper every-
where, water in places it should not
be, and God knows what sorts of
bodily substances in and - if you're
truly "lucky" - around the toilets.
But since I'd always assumed that
men's room had to be 10 times worse,
I decided to run an experiment. My
boyfriend and I visited a series of
public restrooms in his hometown
and took notes comparing the nasti-
ness of the men's and ladies' rooms.
The worst thing we ever found in the
men's room was water around the
sinks and ascrawled assurance on the-

wall that "TOY STORY2 WAS OKAY."
Meanwhile, the women's rooms were
filled with unflushed toilets, soggy
paper strewn about, and some truly
horrible sights that I'm confident you
don't want to read about.
Of course, this isn't enough to
prove that women are the grosser sex
(and according to my guy friends, the
men's room can be nasty, too), but it
certainly goes to show that we're
capable of being vile. But why, then,
did all of the girls seem to be so per-
feet when I was a kid?
My theory is that, while some
ladies (and dudes) are naturally neat,
girls are conditioned to act like we're
cleaner from a young age (as it hap-
pened, I had a slight motor disorder
that prevented me from doing so).
Women can be
just as disgusting
as men.
But as someone in a recent discus-
sion on the humor website Something
Awful put it, people are "completely
inconsiderate of anything they do"
in public restrooms. Hey, you're busy
and you've got to go. No one's going to
know if you don't flush!
I'm not sure if I truly believe that
women are naturally messier than
men, but we've certainly got the
potential. It might just be that after a
day of pretending to be pristine prin-
cesses, the anonymity of the restroom
is the girls' chance to be a slob.
We should probably stop that. It's
nasty.
Eileen Stahl can be reached
at etstahl@umich.edu

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emma Jeszke,
Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Emily Michels, Matthew Shutler,
Jennifer Sussex, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
PATRICIA BRADLEY I
The legacy of white privilege

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to Eothedoiiy@umich.edu.
SUJAL PARIKH AND HASAN SIDDIQI I

Campus diversity provides students with an
education far beyond what they receive in the
classroom alone, and that's because diversity is
not something that can be taught - it's some-
thing that must be experienced. And where
could be a better place to experience diversity
than in the heart of a progressive town like Ann
Arbor?
But let's face it - we aren't always going to
be living in a place like this. Even if we do end
up staying around campus after graduation,
the "real world" isn't quite so pretty. Here's
something you may not be aware of: racism and
white privilege still exist here at the Univer-
sity.
The Sociology 102 discussion I was a part of
last semester, entitled "Race and Class Inequal-
ities in Detroit, the USA, and Beyond," had a
very unique way of taking attendance. Instead
of raising a hand to signify one's presence, we
were expected to turn in a one-sentence exam-
ple of white privilege.
This idea came from Peggy McIntosh, a
professor at Wellesley College. She created
the "White Privilege Backpack," a collection
of examples of the general benefits that white
people unwittingly experience. My class's
"backpack" differed slightly because the exam-
ples of privilege were supposed to be things
that students saw on campus or within the city.
The goal of the backpack project was to raise
awareness of the prominence of white privi-
lege, because it is only possible to change the
way we think about a problem after we become
aware of it.
At first, I found it difficult to determine
what exactly qualified as white privilege. But
then, after hearing what my fellow classmates
thought, I realized there were privileges all
around me that I had never noticed. The exam-

ples made me think about something I hadn't
before, and I gained a new understanding of
the reality of social inequality.
It wasn't just the big things, like being able
to walk around late at night without receiving
suspicious looks. For me, the little examples
had the most profound impact, such as, "No one
ever asks me what to call the people of my race,"
or "As a white person, I can attend a prestigious
school and no one will wonder what sport I
play," It's a simple example, yet sadly true - a
white person has the privilege ofliving without
having their opportunities questioned.
Some other examples included, "People don't
automatically assume that I'm from Detroit,"
"No one questions if I was admitted to the Uni-
versity because of affirmative action," "I can
be in a group with peers of my own race and
no one thinks we're a gang," and, perhaps most
importantly, "I have the privilege of not think-
ing about my privilege." These examples show
that white privilege still exists on our campus.
Here's where you, the average University
student, come in, My class created a mural that
expresses many of the ways white privilege has
affected our lives. It is now located across from
Amers in the Union. It will be hanging there
through the month of January.
Next to the mural, there is a blank poster.
This space is for all of you. Add your ideas and
see what other students have to say. It might
just surprise you. Perhaps soon you'll find
yourself considering that you're never told your
accent is hard to understand. It might make you
realize something about the world in which we
live, and maybe it will even give you the moti-
vation to do something about it. After all, end-
ing white privilege is up to us.
Patricia Bradley is an LSA freshman.

Celebrating I

On December 10, 2008, the world celebrated Human
Rights Day. This holiday marked the 60th anniversary
of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights by the United Nations General Assembly. The
UDHR's first sentence boldly states, "Recognition of the
inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights
of all members of the human family is the foundation of
freedom, justice and peace in the world."
In thirty articles, the UDHR outlines people's univer-
sal rights, such as the right to life, liberty, and security
of person; the right to participate fully in cultural life;
the right to an education; freedom from torture or cruel
treatment or punishment; and the freedom of thought,
conscience, and religion. In setting the global defini-
tion for the words "fundamental freedoms" and "human
rights", this document has not only given human rights
advocates around the world hope, it has provided a moral
claim against governments to respect, protect, and fulfill
the rights of their citizens.
The UDHR was adopted in 1948 in the aftermath of
World War II. The terrible atrocities committed during
that war exposed the lack of an international consensus
on individual human rights. The document arose out of
an understanding of the need to have a universal proc-
lamation that would serve as a constant reminder of the
unique and inalienable rights of their citizens. As a result,
it serves as a safeguard to ensure the rights of people
around the world are upheld and made explicit to all.
Though not legally binding, the UDHR has spurred
the creation of many legally binding treaties, such as the
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cul-
tural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, collectively known as the International
Bill of Rights. Many of its articles have been incorpo-
rated directly into national constitutions, and its tenets
of respect and dignity have become the cornerstone for
rights movements around the world.
However, as we look at recent events around the world
and in our own country, it is sometimes difficult to believe

"I
iuman rights
that we have come very far from the days when these
rights had yet to be fully articulated. Israel's recent, dis-
proportionate attacks on Gaza have resulted in hundreds
of deaths, most of which were civilian. For the past eight
years, our government has openly pursued policies of tor-
ture and illegal detainment. China and Burma deny their
citizens a full range of civil and political rights. Rape con-
tinues to be used as a weapon of war in the Democratic
Republic of Congo.
A striking example has developed in just the past few
weeks as the medical and public health infrastructure
of Zimbabwe collapsed. A cholera epidemic has claimed
the lives of at least 1700 people, with many more dying
each day. The Zimbabwean government chose to respond
by arresting and detaining teachers, doctors, and nurses
rather than addressing the real problems at hand. It is
terrifying that the government would respond to the
situation by denying even more rights. A month later,the
Zimbabwean government finally declared the epidemic a
national emergency. It must now take concrete steps to
provide support to its hospitals and medical school so that
patients can receive the care they need. For its part, the
international community must not only deliver humani-
tarian aid but also demand that a responsive and legiti-
mate government is in place in Zimbabwe.
Though Human Rights Day has passed, we should
continue to celebrate the decisive victories won over the
last sixty years. We should also keep in mind that the
UDHR will become little more than words on paper if we
ignore our responsibility to demand that governments
respect, protect, and fulfill their citizens' human rights.
Only through our individual and collective actions can
we truly realize the noble intentions and fundamental I
assertions of this historic document that we commemo-
rate today.
Sujal Parikh and Hasan Siddiqi are students
at the University of Michigan Medical School and
members of Physicians for Human Rights.

TheDailyislookingfor adiversegroup ofstrong,informedwriterswithan
interest in campus issues to be editorial board members next semester.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 7, 2009 - 5A

Theatrics can't
land Fall Out
Boy on its feet
By JACK PORTER able but memorable cut. "America's
DailyArts Writer Suitehearts" stands out due to its
tightly wound funk groove buffet-
Pop-punk's popularity is wan- ed by angular guitars and a soulful
ing, and Fall Out Boy knows it. tenor vocals a la Maroon S's Adam
So Pete Wentz Levine, but suffers fromstale lines
and company like "I must confess / that I'm in
are trying to love with my own sins."
graduate from Fall Out Bo The obvious winner on the disc
the genre they is lighter-waving "What a Catch,
dominated a few Folie a Deux Donnie." Stump's balladeering
years ago, aban- Island reaches a surprising high on the
doningshipwith track, where he tempers hishyper-
kindred acts like active take on R&B vocal stylings.
Panic at the Disco. The band's new What's most intriguing is how
sound on Folie d Deux is grandiose much the track reveals about the
yet amorphous, filling tracks to band itself; the second half is filled
the brim with theatrical flair and with quotations from its previous
restless experimentation. But-the singles like "Sugar, We're Going
result is an over-stuffed turkey of Down," "Dance, Dance," and "This
an album that's too invested in try- Ain't a Scene, It's a GoddamnArms
ing to please both old fans and new Race." The ease with which these

listeners at the same time. It shows
that Fall Out Boy's real strength is
in wanton teen guitar pop, not the
new arena alt-rock veneer they
strive for here.
One thing hasn't changed: Lead
singer Patrick Stump still revels
in the sound of his own voice. He
savors every impassioned "whoa"
and careless sigh, and his perfor-.
mances have grown ever more
breathless and blustery to match
the album's self-important tone.
The showmanship is to the album's
detriment - Stump drowns out
the cameos that were supposed
to sell the album in the first place.
Where are Pharrell Williams and
Lil' Wayne? Even Elvis Costello is
hard to distinguish from Stump
on his token appearance (he sings
only four lines).
Opening track "Disloyal Order
of Water Buffaloes" sets the stage
with its organ-led intro and melo-
dmimauetic iyra.s like 'n one wants
to hear you sing about tragedy."
Its thunderous chords give way
to lead single "I Don't Care," com-
plete with narcissistic lyrics ("I
don't care what you think /as long
as it's about me") and pentatonic
swagger that make for a predict-

A failed attempt
at maturity.
lines fit together shows a certain
cynicism - Fall Out Boy knows
that, to some extent, its songs are
interchangeable.
Folie d Deux is a curious album
that's stuck between the imma-
ture charm of earlier Fall Out Boy
efforts like From Under the Cork
Tree and an excitable impulse
to strive toward musical adult-
hood. The inclusion of symphonic
strings on "Donnie," the organs
on "Disloyal Order of Water Buf-
faloes" and the horn blasts on "20
Dollar Nose. Bleed" are merely
superficial gestures that suggest
a desire to "grow up." If Stump
developed his R&B melodicism
beyond throw-away recognition
and Wentz came up with a new
bag of lyrical tricks, Fall Out Boy
may become something more
than just a clever joke. That has
vet to happen.

"Nobody move! I'm posing for my commemorative coin."

Landslide victory

Sean Penn's career-defining
performance makes biopic
one of the year's best films
By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
The obvious film to compare "Milk" with
would probably be "Brokeback Mountain."
Both are mainstream, Focus
Features-produced films that
tout gay issues and aim for
awards. Both present pro- Milk
gressive idealism set against
tumultuous times, and are Atthe
strong, romantic melodra- Michigan
mas. But there's one slight Theatre
difference that makes "Milk" Focus Features
far superior to its ideological
contemporary: "Milk" has
emotion.
Whereas "Brokeback" was an austere and
cold effort, "Milk" is an emotional work that
deserves to endure. A heartfelt story about

human rights and the neglected legacy of
openly gay San Francisco politician Harvey
Milk, "Milk" has a charismatic and affable
main character, an insightful history and a
sense of intimacy seldom seen in typical Oscar
bait.
It's 1970, New York City. Harvey Milk, por-
trayed by the effortless Sean Penn, is 40 years
old and hasn't done much in his life as a silent
cog. But with a middle-aged desire to bloom
and find happiness, Milk decides to flee from
the "machine" and re-establish himself in San
Francisco.
There, Milk becomes the voice of a grass-
roots gay movement. But it's not quick and easy;
he begins as just another small business owner
looking for equal rights and freedom from
harassment. But then Milk starts running for
public office. He runs several times for different
positions before finally getting elected to the
San Francisco Board of Supervisors, where he
encounters his fellow supervisor, the infamous
Dan White (google the "Twinkie Defense" after
seeing the film.)
Yet "Milk" is never truly about Milk's politi-
cal ups and downs. It's about his infectious

idealism and what he meant for human rights
in the late 1970s. Articulate, passionate and
quite likable, Sean Penn doesn't just play Milk.
Penn embraces him. Milk was about creating a
voice that could be heard and understood, and
by presenting it in a way that anybody could
notice and remember. And with messages like
"never blend in" and "you gotta give 'em hope"
buttressing Milk's cause, it's hard not to fall for
the film.
Milk was a gifted speaker with tremendous
presence. He's incredibly engaging here via
Penn's portrayal. And judging by the film, he
combined the presence of the Obamas with
the charisma of the Clintons. Self-deprecating,
approachable and incredibly bright, Penn gets
everything honorable and admirable about
Milk just right. To watch Penn act here is to see
a performer working at his peak.
"Milk" scores as an accessible biopic thanks
to lyrical camerawork, 1970s historical antiq-
uity and a great supporting cast. Also con-
tributing to the success is the script by new
screenwriter Dustin Lance Black (TV's "Big
Love"). But, overall, Penn and director Gus Van
See MILK, Page 8A

"Man, the bus was supposed to be here four hours ago."

Doubt' divinely, shines

By BLAKE GOBLE
DailyArts Writer
There's something fascinating
about the antiquity and rituals of
churches. They
are stuffy, con- *,**
fusing and kind
of creepy; they Doubt
produce the same
over-arching At Showcase
sensations felt and Quality 16
when watching Miramax
"Doubt."
There are
two reasons to see "Doubt." First,
there's never been such an accu-
rate depiction of Catholic schools
in popular film. Second, "Doubt"
arrives at dueling cultural corner-
stones, setting itself right after the
assassination of John F. Kennedy
and opening now, at a time of Cath-
olic bewilderment.
A minimalist prodding of ideas
realized with great performances,
"Doubt" is a sensationally pro-
vocative film. Based on the award-
winning play by John Patrick
Shanley ('Moonstruck"), "Doubt"
is a series of circumstances, inci-
dents and revelations at a Bronx
Catholic School in the fall of 1964.
At its core, it's about adults in con-

flict ov
may no
Miller;
youngA
Fath
Hoffma
is a nev
a libera
kindne
he adh
tion of>
pencha
Mea
(Meryl
the sch
old-gua
infinite
A
hor
of 1
Cat
she's no
her pow
more th
sion tor

'er something that may or When suspicions arise that Don-
t have happened to Donald ald was molested by Flynn, ques-
(newcomer Joseph Foster), a tions and accusations are tossed
African-American student. about by all. But, much like faith
er Flynn (Philip Seymour itself, "Doubt" isn't about finding
an, "Charlie Wilson's War") answers. It's title doesn't mince
w priest at the school with words.
al approach to sermonizing Everyone knows about Catholic
ass and understanding. Still, guilt, but "Doubt" presents a lesser
eres to old-school assump- known trait: Catholic intrusive-
priority over nuns and has a ness. A mix of broad humor and
nt for eerily long nails. deadly serious drama, "Doubt" gets
nwhile, Sister Aloysius its ideas out any way it can. Starting
Streep, "Mamma Mia!") is off as a historical pastiche of maud-
ool's principal and resident lin Catholicism, writer-director
ard nun. Stern, strict and Shanley understands the humor of
ly terrifying to the parish, private schools and their rules.
According to Aloysius, ballpoint
pens are ruining penmanship in
this country and a photo of the
Ln eerie and Pope at the front of class is rever-
ent, as well as a good mock-mirror
nest depiction through which to watch the stu-
of dents. The manners, relating to
the politics of meddling and formality, are fasci-
. natimng because they're so true. For
holic schools. outsiders it's funny and unusual,
but for Catholic school refugees,
it's almost too honest.
But it's the intrusiveness that
ot quite a ruler-swinger, but leads to a series of religious quan-
wers of guilt and accusation daries and tested fights over what
an compensate for her aver- exactly happened to the boy. Did
physical punishment. Flynn do something? Or is Aloysius

over-reacting? The drama, which
shouldn't be elaborated upon too
heavily, is breathtaking. As an audi-
ence member, you can never take
sides or make assunptions because
See DOUBT, Page 8A
JOBS!!!
Winter Term
Apply now at the
Law Library-
*Non-Law Students
*Law Students
*S.I. Students
Minimum pay is $9.00
per hour!
Apply at the hiring table
outside room
S-180 in the Law Library's
underground addition.
AA/EOE

READER
KNOWS BST
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

h

A


6A - Wednesday, January 7, 2009
the michigan daily

The Midhigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I
I

parking
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300

6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
!!AVAIL. FALL 2009!! 1 & 2 bed-
room apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Incredi-
ble location! Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
parking, heat and water paid by land-
lord, no pets, no smoking. Small man-
agement company with excellent
record of personal service. We provide
first rate service! Lease with a
company thaltruly cures!
CALL BOBBIE: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAIL. FALL '09.3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.

WilsonWhite
$3,995 HAS
NEVER
AFFORDED
YOU THIS
MUCH!
rand New u pscale 5
bedroom apartments
@611 Church! The9
are newlyt constructed
5 bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments ,wth all
the latesat andgreatest
amenites, like a
washer and drtjer in
unit!

AvalI Mau 72oo

OUR APARTMENTSINCLUDE
Heat& water
Excellent maintenance
Great lcaion
FREE FOOD
FREE wireless internet
24r attendant
THE BEST OF
ANN ARBOR 2008
7347612680
UniersityTowers-m/.com
CHECK OUT OUR
AWESOME SPECIALS!
University
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
AVAILABLE JANUARY - room, 1
bdrm or house. fully furnished, flexible
ease. Call today 734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE NOW 1 bedroom. 428
S. Division. $875 negotiable. Call
734-996-1991 for viewing.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call (734)
649-5549 anytime.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primes.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
515 Lawrence-l LEFT
610 S. Forest-I LEFT
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. STATE-1 LEFT
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
1000 Oakland-LEFT
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320&. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
525 Walnut- 1 LEFT
1000 Oakland- LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct. -1 LEFT
1320S. University-l LEFT
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
SPACIOUS 1 BDRM at Hill and
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003.
WisnWhite

OCned anddP
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.7419300
wwwanrarborapartments.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
avalable at 1115 Willard. Free prkg.
$3299/mo. Campus Realty
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CURRENTLY AVAILABLE- WE
have a few left, but they re going to
go fast at the prices we have them at!
Call to get in today! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwitemanagement.com
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint-
ments available too if you need them!
Wilson White Management
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
FALL 2009. PEPPERS Properties. 3
bdrm. apts. East U. furn. heat/water
incl. on site prkg.810-231-0229.
umcampushousing.com
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm.
700+,sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave.
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #Bl.
May Lease. $900/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
GREAT PACKARD LOCATIONS:
526 and 917, large balconies/patios,
heat, water, parking, furnished, dish-
washers, laundry. Huge 2 bedroom
apartments great for 3-4 people!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown.
Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully
furnished and much more! 741-9300
www.anarborapartments.net
idut Stud io & 7
Bdirm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qu,et lcu g r^eeboc firomCamps.
Cll Bin Tomic
734-663-1530
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!*SPIN TO WIN UP TO $500 OFF
AT UNIVERSITY TOWERS
Furnished Studio, 1, 2 & 3 bedrooms
FOR 2009/2010 SCHOOL YEAR
Call or stop by TODAY FOR A TOUR!
734-761-2680 universitytowers-mi.com
!6-BDRM, 2 Bath colonial, Central
campus (1143 S.forest Ave.). 5 mina
walk to college w/2 fridges/mi-
crowave/toaster/sink/free Indry/private
deck/ample prkg. Call 734-578-4625.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
CAMPUS 2 BED, 2 BATH:
Exceptionally large apts., super loca-
tion: 51 5 Walnut St. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
830 SYLVAN 3 bdrm. Near Cent.
Camp. & B-school. Hardwood firs. At-
tached garage. Prkg. Aug. '09. $1695.
Ldry. & Dryer. 248-515-7440.

Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the
most detailed listings in town! As you
can see things are moving quickly-
secure your housing now for next year.
Call 663-4101 to schedule a personal
showing!
HOUSES AND LARGE APTS.
908 E. Ann St. -6 BR/l1.5 BA / $2995
912 E. Ann 5. - 4 BR / RENTED
515 Calherine - 6 BR/'2 Studies/ 2BA
/$3495
1349 Geddes - 5 BR / RENTED
710 Catherine - 6 BR / 4 Studies / 2
BA/ $3740
811 Catherine - 6 BR / 3 BA/ $3895
909 Dewey -6 BR / RENTED
535 S. Fifth Ave. - 4 BR /1 BA / $2295
1331 Geddes -6 BR / RENTED
934 Greenwood #2 - 4 BR / RENTED
203 N. Ingalls - 3 BR / 2 BA/ $2595
408 E. Jefferson #1-6 BR / RENTED
516 S. Fourth - 5 BR / all utils. incl. /
$2525
511 Lawrence -6 BR / 2.5 BA / $3195
809 Lawrence #1- 4 BR/2.5 BA/$2245
517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED
332 E. Madison #1-3 BR/2 BA/ $1945
1031 Michigan - 4 BR / RENTED
206 N. Thayer - 4 BR / RENTED
1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5
BA / $3295
1342 N. University Ct. - 3 BR / I BA
/ $1865
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR /
RENTED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR /
RENTED
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
January or May. Hardwood floors,
fully furmished, washer/dryer and car-
port. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.com
5 & 6 Bedroom Houses
Sept & May 2009
Copi Properties
734-6635609
MAY - MAY 2 BEDROOM:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
NEED TO BE on N. Campus?:
Check out our Walnut St. and Geddes
Ave. locations! 1, 2, & 3 bdrms near
CC Little bus stop. Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100
4 BEDROOM APARTMENT:
To see it, is to say WOW! A Unique
and spacious apt. in a beautiful con-
verted house. Hardwood floors, high
ceilings, furnished, dishwasher, large
yard. www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1350/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
4 BLOCKS FROM Union. Big hse: 5
Ig. bdrms. (5-7 persons) Living/dining
rms. 2 kitch., 2 bath., 2 study, Free
Idry. & parking. $3200 (734) 717-2017.
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. 2 fridges. front porch &
deck in back. no coin lndry. $3400. 502
Benjamin. Call 248-214-8708. Fall
2009.

www.Bartonbrook.com.734-665-5620'
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
available too! All ame attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact as by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY

4

a

Apartments Available!

1 BDRM APT avail. for 6-mo. sublet
at Hillcrest Apartments. $699/mo. No
rent til Feb! 800+ SF third floor apt,
walk-in closet, free internet, Close to
AATA. Call 734-649-6831.

"AVAIL AL U9 +bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
NORTH CAMPUS
HEAT/WATER/PARKING
1 & 2 bedrooms available now!
734-996-4992. www.HRPAA.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
UP TO $500 OFF YOUR RENT
May/Aug Leases Available
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
VARSITY MANAGEMENT
734-668-1100, Studios, 1, 2, 3 and 4
bdrms. 09/10 on Central Campus!
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com
7, 2009
aily Crossword Puzzle
and Joyce Nichols Lewis
41 ChicJohnson's 55 Capital of
vaudeville partner India?
42 Shine 57 Decisive '40s
47 __ dixit event
48 Hosp. worker 59 Crew's control
49 "Where were you 60 _-Aztecan
on the night of' languages
stories 61 E'en if
50 Smooth 62 "Forget _": 1964
51 Canine hit
scavengers 63 Child expert
53 "Mule Train" LeShan
singer 64 Tennis redo
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
TaRwU E PAP A B OnNE R
R O P E U RA L A B O V E
E WE R L EN O C OD E X
VAN NI L L A S H A KE
I N D E B T A B S G D R
S A F E BE C O O L
V A T S B A B Y R A 7 T L E
E L I H U I o [U T R I E S
S P R i N G R O L L L TD S
P E EP E R K E E N
A SS D OE C Y B O R G
B I G J O E T U R N E R
C A R A T E A VE A T T A
O H A R E C H E R V 0 1 D
W I P E D T U RN A P E S
xwordeditor@aol.com O1/06109

THESIS EISITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help w anted
!!!BARTENDING!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
traning provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
GOT MILK? SEEKING kick a$$ pro-
grammers for cool new company.
Email info@netarx.com to meet the
owners.
Classifieds
continued on
the next page

A

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, January
Los Angeles Times D
Edited by Rich Norris
ACROSS 3 Outlying
1 Eminent communities
opening? 4 Hem again
4 Knocks 5 Forum greeting
8 Fully aged, as 6 Short shot?
wine 7 School zone
14 __-les-Bains, warning
France 8 Emmy-winning
15 Bad doings journalist Roger
16 Online 9 High-tech code
newsgroup acronym
system 10 Air on tubes
17 Hosp. heart ward 11 A, in Acapulco
18 Inferior 12 Legal thing
20 Stooge count 13 Aliens, for short
22 "Garfield" drooler 18 Picher Hideo
23 Space to 2! Fair-hiring abbr.
maneuver 24 Acted dizzily
27 Sweet that's 25 River to the
oftenlicked English Channel
31 Market initials 26 SeaWorld city
32 Overthrow, 28 First name in
usua/ly '70stennis
34 Banned fruit 2Zola heroine
spray 30 Forbidding
35 DDE, for one 33 Mickey of "9 1/2
36 Family name of Weeks"
three popes 35 Exam for srs.
38 Carolina 37 Battle of Atlanta
Mudcats, e.g. soldier
43 Prime minister 38 Painter Chagall
before Charchill 39 "Am _ early?"
44 Union-mgmt. 40 Accident-
dispute watchdog investigating org.
45 Thorny bloom
46 Performed well 1 2 s 
48 Eye protector I4 '
52 Early computer I4 I 5
language 1T 13
GA Ta ennmaoempo

r
i
a

4

12br/4ba 1307 8. State
$5500
9br/ 4ba 916 Sybil $5775
Sbr/4ba 1302 . Forest
$3750
7br/2ba 335 E. Ann $4195
7br/ 2ba 222 N. Thayer
$3995
6br/3ba 1814 Geddes
$3795
6br/3ba 804 Lawrence
$3545
6br/2ba 705 . Division
$3925
6br/2ba 507 Walnut $3995
6br/3ba200 Packard $3495
May othe EsffIoIenoy
to I 2 Br Avoilable tool

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one businessday prior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Founc

Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue. e Frequency and Bulkcontracts are available-
contact our staff for details " Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) a All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check # For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives


5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
16
119

1 day 2 days 3 days
8.60 12.90 17.20

4 days 5 days
21.50 25.80

2 lines


54 Takeover attempt
56 Boys 20 21 22
58 Bring together
59 Hired consultant, 23 24 as 06 27 28a29 s
e.g. 3
65 Wine cellar un t
66 Goddess of 35 38 37
wiodom
67 Cannes concept 08 sa s40 1 02
68 One-million link
69 "60 Minutes" a 44
humorist
70 It can follow the 45 as 4 48 5 0 51
last word of this
puzzle's fine s2 3 s
longest answers s 7s 58
71 M.O.
59 80 l61 82 63 64 6s5
DOWN
1 USC'sWN 8
conference
2 How penthouses 89C7001
may be
decorated ny Jack McIntur 01/07/09
(e)2 ' Tribune Media Services, Inc.

3lines 129C
4lines 17.2C

38.70
51.60

020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 -Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Pent
070 - Sublet
080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
1600- Fete

39,40 43

Policies:
Abbeviatios: adrabbraions as defined by TMD wi be accepted. Misprints: The ability of
TD for falure to pubish an advertisement for any reason, or for pubishi incorrectads in a specified issue
sha'l be imited to pubishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
will be responsible for classified advertisementerrors only if notified by 5:00 pm onuthe firstday of pubbcation.
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates lnes are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds:
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadlne, but no refund wil be given unless the ad has not yet
been pubshed. Refusal: A ads are subject to editing and approval. We do not publish advertisements for
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right torequest samples of rnai order items prior to
acceptingadvertising

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

A



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
How the U' saves
energy over break

Wednesday, January 7, 2009 - 7A

THE NEXT CHAPTER

Resident advisors
checked rooms to
make sure power
wasn't wasted
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
After Bursley Hall residents
left for winter vacation, LSA
junior John Ray - a Bursley resi-
dent advisor - entered 88 rooms
to check if students defrosted
their freezers, unplugged appli-
ances and turned off lights. As an
RA, Ray assisted the University's
effort to conserve energy over
winter break by inspecting each
room to see if students followed
the University's energy-saving
techniques.
"Most students complied with
making sure their appliances were
off," Ray said. "There were only a
few incidents in which the refrig-
erators were still plugged in."
To conserve energy in the resi-
dence halls, residential computing
sites are completely shut down,
and the dining services staff were
instructed to turn off unnecessary
lights and equipment.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan said the University
cannot entirely shut down build-
ings over breaks because people
still work in them.
"One of the challenges is that
because there are some live-in
residential education staff in
some buildings, we can't turn the
heat down completely nor can we
turn the heat off in any facilities
because that would run the risk of
pipes freezing," Logan said.
Logan said that while stu-
dents are gone, housing staff walk
through each building daily to
make sure areas are secure and
energy is not being wasted.
Alan Levy, director of commu-
nications for Information Tech-
nology Central Services, said
computers at ITCS campus com-
puting sites were on low-energy
consumption sleep mode during
FRATERNITY
P From Page 1A
discovered. He said the repair
costs, which are being covered
by insurance, haven't been deter-
mined.
Despite the inconvenience

the break.
"IT administrators in schools,
colleges and departments advise
faculty and staff to turn off as
much computing equipment,
including printers, during the
break as feasible given ongoing
research, laboratory and other
essential activities that don't stop
during the break," Levy said.
Other universities in Michigan
practice similar energy conserva-
tion strategies.
Western Michigan University
officials named its energy plan
"Holiday Setback."
Cheryl Roland, a spokeswoman
at WMU, said WMU plans to save
between $250,000 to $350,000
from Holiday Setback this year.
"Our Energy Command Cen-
ter has computer access to adjust
the settings for about 3,000 ther-
mostats in 75 buildings campus-
wide," Roland said in an e-mail
interview. "Beginning at noon
Dec. 24, our entire campus will
go into holiday mode with much
of the building space at about 55
degrees."
From 1996 to 2008 WMU's
campus experienced a 19-percent
increase in building square foot-
age. During the same period, it
reduced energy consumption by
17 percent.
Roland said representatives
from the University of Michigan
and colleges in Ohio and Indiana
have visited WMU this semester
to observe its energy consumption
practices.
"Our campus regularly attracts
colleagues from other institutions
- including U of M - who pose
just one question, 'How do you do
it?"' she said.
Michigan State University
attempts to conserve energy
through Environment Stewards,
a group of 613 faculty volunteers
who work to make MSU more
environmentally friendly. Almost
every building has one steward
who engages co-workers in ener-
gy-saving, waste reduction and
recycling practices.
Lauren Olson, one of the coor-
dinators of Environment Stew-

ards, said the program works well
because it's easy for volunteers to
talk to their co-workers working
in the same department.
"Having direct contact is bet-
ter than getting some e-mail (with
energy-savingtips)," Olson said.
In preparation for winter
break, the Environment Stewards
advised co-workers to turn off and
unplug appliances and turn down
the heat.
Sharri Margraves, MSU direc-
tor of housing and food services
and maintenance and interior
design, said MSU saves $200,000
for every degree lowered in resi-
dence halls and campus buildings.
"In the campus buildingswe ask
that we do not exceed 70 degrees,"
Margraves said in an e-mail inter-
view. "In the residence halls, the
heating is reduced to about 65
during the break."
MSU Housing also set up post-
ers in residence halls to remind
students what to do before leav-
ing for break. The posters alerted
residents to unplug electronics
because "plugged-in electronics
create phantom energy waste by
drawing electricity." The signs
also told students to report any
dripping faucets or showers since
one dripping faucet can waste
more than 100 gallons of water
per day.
The University of Michigan has
not been able to estimate how much
money it saves from energy reduc-
tions over breaks due to weather
variations, differences in vacation
length and difficulties in measur-
ing energy use for short periods.
"Basically, University Housing
has conducted these 'shutdown'
efforts for years because we know
that it reduces energy and water
consumption, and it's the right
thing to do," Logan said.
When asked if the University
could improve its energy conser-
vation during breaks, Logan said
the University does everything it
can to cut consumption.
"Given the facilities we need to
manage, some of which are pret-
ty old, we do a pretty good job,"
he said.

MAX COLLIN5/Daily
Michigan Book and Supply employee Jenny Gutsue checks out books yesterday for LSA sophomore Tricia Shine in preparation
for the upcoming semester, which starts today.
Apple alters song prices

Tech company to use
three-tier system
for song purchases
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Apple
Inc. is cutting the price of some
songs in its market-leading iTunes
online store to as little as 69 cents
and plans to make every track avail-
able without copy protection.
In Apple's final appearance at
the Macworld trade show, Apple's
top marketing executive, Philip
Schiller, said yesterday that iTunes
song prices will come in three tiers:
69 cents, 99 cents and $1.29. Record
companies will choose the prices,
which marks a significant change,
since Apple previously made all
songs sell for 99 cents.
Apple gave the record labels that
flexibility on pricing as it got them
to agree to sell all songs free of"dig-
ital rights management," or DRM,
technology that limits people's abil-
ity to copy songs or move them to
multiple computers. Applehad been
offering a limited selection of songs
without DRM, but bythe end of this
quarter, the company said, all 10
million songs in its library will be
available that way.
While iTunes is the most popu-
lar digital music store, others have
been faster to offer more songs
without copy protection. Amazon.
com Inc. started selling DRM-
free music downloads in 2007 and
swayed all the major labels to sign

on in less than a year.
Schiller also announced that
iPhone 3G users will be able to buy
songs from the iTunes store using
the cellular data network. Previous-
ly, iPhone users could shop for tunes
when connected to a Wi-Fi hotspot.
The iTunes changes marked the
highlights of Schiller's run as a
stand-in for CEO Steve Jobs, who
used to make Macworld the site
for some of Apple's biggest prod-
uct unveilings, such as the iPhone.
Apple said last month that Jobs
would not address the throngs this
time because the company plans to
pull out of Macworld next year.
Apple shares slipped $1.56, or 1.7
percent, to close at $93.02.
Schiller got a warm welcome
from the attendees - who packed
the convention hall despite the pall
cast over the industry by the eco-
nomic downturn - especially at the
start of his talk, when he thanked
them for showing up despite Jobs'
notable absence. He ran seamlessly
through his 90-minute presenta-
tion, getting applause and dohs
from the audience, varying little
from the format of slides and demos
established by Jobs. And like Jobs,
he gushed about Apple's products
being the best in the world.
"Phil did an exceptionally good
job in representing Apple," said Tim
Bajarin, presidentoftechnologyana-
lystgroup Creative Strategies Inc.
Lower iTunes prices were
Apple's only nod to the recession -
and an oblique one atthat, as record

labels have been asking for years to
set varying song prices. Rather than
an inexpensive new Mac to lure
budget-conscious buyers, Schiller
unveiled a new $2,800 Macbook
Pro laptop with a 17-inch screen
and the sleek aluminum casing the
company debuted with the super-
thin Macbook Air.
He also unwrapped new versions
of two software packages for Macs,
includingthe iLife multimedia pro-
grams. For instance, iPhoto '09 can
recognize faces and sort photos
based on who's in them. Garage-
Band '09 includes videotaped,
interactive music lessons given by
Sting and other musicians. Apple
added more professionalvideoedit-
ing features to iMovie '09.
Apple's answer to Microsoft
Corp.'s Office productivity suite,
called iWork, also got a makeover,
including zippy new ways to add
animation between slides in the
Keynote presentation software.
And Apple unveiled a "beta" test
version of a Web site for sharing
documents, iWork.com. Unlike
Google Inc's online documents
program, however, Apple's version
does not allow people to edit docu-
ments in a Web browser.
Apple said the thin new 17-inch
aluminum-cased Macbook Pro,
which joins an existing 15-inch
model, will start shipping at the
end of January. Perhaps the biggest
twist is the laptop's battery, which
is designed to last longer on each
charge - up to seven or eight hours.


caused by the two incidents, spir-
its remain high for the ADPhi
brothers. Barack said the support-
ive response from the Greek com-
munity, is "the silver lining to this
incident."
"Members of the Greek commu-
nity were very much open to and
offering alternatives and options

for the guys in the house," Barack
said. "Some of the other Greek
houses called and offered places
to live. So the response was really
nice."
Any information regarding the
case can be reported to Detective
Amy Ellinger at 734-996-3282 or
aellinger@a2gov.org.


the michigan daily
WWW800FULLER.COM QUIT SMOKING! $100, patches, &
(734) 769-7520 personalized intervention. Make 3 T M ichigan ai l H oros cope
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet study visits including a brain scan.
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus sitemaker.a .c7edu 5stadies/quit

For Thursday, Jan. 8, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Be careful. Slow down. This is an
accident-prone day: It's also very easy to
fall into negative thinking or to be overly
gloomy about something. Let it go. This
is just a temporary dark cloud on your
horizon.
TAURUS
(April 260 May 26)
Your finances are definitely unpre-
dictable today. Furthermore, you might
feel broke. Keep an eye on your money.
Guard against breakages of something
you own. This stress will be gone soon!
GEMINI
(May21 toJune 20)
Something unexpected might happen
that gets you down today. It could relate
to dealing with authority figures - par-
ents, bosses, VIPs, teachers or the police.
Easy does it.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
This is a mildly accident-prone day.
It's also easy to fall into negative think-
ing. Guard against all of this. This is just
a temporary negative celestial influence.
Yikes!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Something about your financial scene
might worry you today. Or you might
lose something and regret it. However,
whatever happens is minor in the big
picture.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
This is a poor day for dealing with
authority figures, parents, teachers, VIPs
and bosses. Wherever you turn, all you
hear is, "Talk to the hand!"
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Matters connected with work or even
with your health might be disconcerting

today. Things are difficult, and others are
not cooperative. Just bear with all this as
best you can.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Parents, teachers and child-care work-
ers must be vigilant with children under
their care today, because it is an acci-
dent-prone day for kids.
Misunderstandings also can arise easily.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 221t Dec. 21)
Be patient with family members and
partners today. People are quick to take
offense and then suddenly do something
rash or unthinking. Cool your jets.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Keep an eye on your money today.
Financial matters are unpredictable.
Something to do with your possessions
is also subject to loss, theft or breakage.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Romance is disappointing today.
Parents must be extra patient when deal-
ing with children. Even your finances
are shaky, Fortunately, this is temporary!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
It's hard to know what is happening
today, because you could be discouraged
or caught off guard by something. Take
it easy. Don't overreact to anything.
YOU BORN TODAY You're an origi-
nal thinker, and you're not afraid to
blaze new paths. Sometimes your dis-
coveries allow you to make a huge
impact on others. Many of you experi-
ence the so-called overnight success.
You're motivated, determined and will-
ing to drive yourself to the limit.
Partnerships, marriage and close friend-
ships will be a major focus this year.
Birthdate of: David Bowie, singer;
Elvis Presley, rock 'n' roll icon; Stephen
-Hawking, physicist, cosmologist.

SMOKING BAN
From Page 1A
customers were no longer allowed
to smoke in the tin-covered diner.
"People come here every single
day because they can smoke,"
Woodward said. "We had a couple
customers who flat out said we
don't only come here for the food."
But Byrnes said some of her
constituents have told her that the
ban would in fact make them more
likely to go to a restaurant or bar.
EVALUATIONS
From Page 1A
dents for gettingthem in."
Later this month, teams will meet
toreviewtheperformanceofthenew
system and discuss ways to improve
it. The teams include representatives
from the Office of Evaluations and
Exams, Administrative Information
Services and CTools. One team will
focus on communication and design
and other teams on evaluation issues
and software design. In tweaking
the system,Kulik said the teams will
also consider input from students
and faculty.
LSA freshman Amanda Gram-
lich filled out all of her course
evaluations without any problems.
She said that her sociology profes-
M-DEN
From Page 1A
local retailers that sell University
apparel.
"We'll all still survive," Duerk-
sen said. "But in this economy we
have to become more lean in each
and every way that we can."
At Moe's Sport Shops, which
sells the same Adidas and offi-
cial University apparel carried
by M-Den, store manager Drew
Christensen said it's too early to
tell what kind of impact the new
competition will have.
Christensen said he had his
fingers crossed that a rival

"I have been told by many that
theywouldmakemorefrequentvis-
its to local business if smoking were
no longer allowed," Byrnes said.
Public health experts argue
that the ban is necessary to protect
non-smoking patrons and restau-
rant employees from second-hand
smoke, a point that Byrnes said
made a decision on the ban par-
ticularly important.
"This legislation was about
workers' health and is an impor-
tant preventative healthcare mea-
sure," she said.
sor devoted class time to having
students fill his out and that all her
instructors pushed for student par-
ticipation.
"One of my political science
GSIs even brought us candy and
asked us to please do it and fill
them out" Gramlich said.
College of Engineering senior
Ray Smith said one of his profes-
sors made filling outthe evaluation
extra credit. After completing that
one, he figured he might aswell do
the rest. Smith said the transition
to online evaluations was easy.
"For me it doesn't make that big
of a difference," Smith said. "It's
probably easier in terms of keep-
ing track of sheets of paper versus
keeping track online. And, I can
generally type faster than I can
write, so it's just faster in general."
retailer wouldn't fill the Steve
and Barry's vacancy. He added,
though, that his .store already
has a good working relationship
with M-Den and that the two
regularly refer customers back
and forth.
Though the two stores sell the
same name brand apparel and tar-
get the same shoppers, Christens-
en said Moe's would find a way to
remain competitive in the local
retail market.
"We've been here since 1915
and we've seen companies come
and go," Christensen said. "We
always find a way to adapt, and
Moe's will find a way to adapt to
this change."

READER
KNOWS
BEST.
Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

CONQUERING FEAR - A Spiritual
Approach. Sat., 10 Jan 09, 2:00-4:00
pm. trazy Wisdom Book Store, Main
St, Ann Arbor. Open discussioneregard-
ing the antidote to any fear and the path
to self-mastership. Facilitated by local
members of Eckankar, Religion of the
Light and Sound of God. 734-255-7691.

s2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8A - Wednesday, January 7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MILK
From Page 5A
Sant steal the show.
After directing indie gems like
"My Own Private Idaho" and
"Paranoid Park" and mainstream
hits like "Good Will Hunting"
and "Finding Forrester," Van
Sant finally found a balance with
"Milk." Between mass appeal and
obscure art, "Milk" is a film that
deserves both applause and guilt-
free tears. Van Sant, a gifted visu-
alist, allegedly wanted to make
this film for more than a decade,

andit shows.
It's almost perfect. The only
setback? James Franco.
Yes, he's attractive, but "Milk"
proves he's a middling actor.
Working with a stock on-and-off
love story with Harvey, he's just
another popular face in a film in
which he doesn't belong. Think
Jake Gyllenhaal in "Brokeback."
"Milk" is an ideologically
American film about great pro-
gressive values and fighting to be
heard. Milk was a man who for-
tunately was listened to, and the
film shows the beauty of standing
up and speaking out.


DOUBT
From Page 5A
you never know what to make of
anyone in "Doubt."
It's the kind of film that the
Academy drools over. In immac-
ulate performances, Hoffman,
Streep and Adams each put
themselves at differing points in
their faiths. But the real runaway
winner will be Viola Davis ("Dis-
turbia") as Mrs. Miller, Donald's
mother. Her beautiful soliloquy
about her son is worth the price

of admission alone. It transcends
the simplicities of religion to
show how faith never gives per-
fect answers.
With a film that has such brave
ideas, presented ornately and
with historical thoroughness,
the only letdown may just be the
direction. Shanley, an Oscar-
winning writer, directed here
and pangs of first-time decisions
are apparent throughout. Tilted
angles, a bit too much screaming
and an all too debatable conclu-
sion make "Doubt" imperfect.
Just like any religion.

"They don't call me the human nail-clipper for nothing!"

A bloated blunder

Will Smith lacks
his usual charm in
confusing drama
that fails to deliver
By SHERI JANKELOVITZ
Daily Arts Writer
"Seven Pounds" suffers from
two major flaws.
First, very little ,
is explained dur-
ing most of the S
film, making
every scene baf- POUndS
fling. And sec- At Quality 16
ond, while the and Showcase
conclusion of the .
film finally offers Columbia
a . much-needed
explanation, it's a lame one.
Ben Thomas (Will Smith) is an
I.R.S. agent and a morose guy. His

sullenness arises from his terrible
secret - one that propels him to
find and help those he deems wor-
thy of saving. So muddled and yet
so obvious at the same time, the
secret is easily guessed within the
first 15 minutes. Still, the end of
the film is rife with confusion.
Thomas seems to possess all
the attributes of a first-class
stalker. He lurks in hospital hall-
ways, stands over a blind man
while he eats and has a generally
eerie demeanor. Because nothing
is explained until the end of the
film, it's hard to determine just
why Thomas is behaving like such
a creep. This is most likely done
intentionally, to shroud the entire
film in cheap mystery. Instead, it
proves to be a headache-inducing
experience.
By the time Thomas's true
motives are revealed, there's so
muchsuspensethatthetruthwould
have to be something spectacular

to appease viewers. Unfortunately,
it's nothingspecial. The film swells
to a mind-blowing conclusion, but,
when it comes, it's far closer to a
whimper than a bang. The truth is
much less exciting than any of the
possibilities - Thomas is an angel,
Thomas is the messiah, it was all a
crazy dream - running through
the audience's mind.
Smith is such a charismatic guy
that it's almost a crime to keep him
so subdued. The rare moments
when his character cracks a joke or
a smile make the audience laugh or
smile in turn. After all, it's nice to
see Will Smith being Will Smith.
If only we didn't have to suffer
through his dreariness for the rest
of the film's running time.
Looking beyond Smith's per-
formance, the entire film is actu-
ally rather bleak as well, though
several scenes demonstrate its
potential. As two of Ben's seven
chosen people to save, Rosario

Dawson ("Sin City") and Woody
Harrelson ("No Country for Old
Men") garner interest as multi-
faceted characters who, unfortu-
nately, aren't given enough time
to shine. Dawson gives off an
especially luminous quality; each
of her scenes with Smith works
because both actors are simulta-
neously dramatic and human. In
particular, the scene where Smith
and Dawson share a candlelit din-
ner showcases the chemistry they
could have, if only the film gave
them room to explore it.
The film's transparent attempts
to get viewers to think and cry
at the same time are exhausting.
Whatever is supposed to be so
moving or thought provoking is
left a mystery. In the end, noth-
ing much happened, and the little
that did borders on ridiculous.
The film just jerks us around, and
when it's all over, it's not a very
exciting ride.

4

a

Opportunity Favors the
Prepared Mind
What: BlackRock Information Session
Speaker: John Nichols
Managing Director
BlackRock Solutions
Class of '88
When: Thursday January 8th
7:00 p.m. - 8:30 P.m.
Where: Michigan League
Hussey Room
S > BLACKROCK
INVESTMENTS
www.blackrock.com

a

4

I

I

0

A

02008 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved.



The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I January 7, 2009

'M' looks
to shake
road-game
troubles
By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
Before the season, Michigan men'sobasketball coach
John Beilein knew what the Wolverines needed to do
to make the NCAA Tournament for the first time since
1998.
Turnsome heads in the nonconference season. Two
wins against top-five opponents on national television
- check.
Protect Crisler Arena against Big
Ten foes. A decisive 10-point victory Michigan
over an improved Illinois team, even at Indiana
when Crisler was less-than-impos-
ing because students were home on Matchup:
break - the jury's still out, but signs Michigan 11-3;
point to check. Indiana 5-8
Steal a few conference games on When: Today,
the road. That's not so easy.
With a travel schedule that 6:30 p.m.
includes upcoming games at Illinois, Where:
Ohio State, Purdue, Wisconsin and Assembly Hall
Minnesota, the Wolverines' game TV: BTN
tonight against struggling Indiana
- their only contest against the bot-
tom-feeding Hoosiers this year - is crucial, despite
Indiana's lack of depth and veteran talent.
"(With) the state of our program right now, any
win on the road is just huge for us," Beilein said. "We
haven't had a lot of road experience, so this would
really be an important win for us, just in the confer-
ence and going on the road. Because that could be con-
tagious as well."
Finding success in rival Big Ten gyms would be
just another step for the Wolverines to put last year's
dismal 10-22 season behind them. Although a win at
Indiana - where they haven't won since 1995 - might
not look like much to a selection committee, it could
give the Wolverines confidence going into the meat of
Big Ten play.
Beilein knows that his team will more than likely
slip up on the road at some point this season - but
Michigan won't be the only team to do that.
"When Sparta went to Athens, they probably lost,
and when Athens went to Sparta, they probably lost,"
See HOOSIERS, Page 3B
Caporusso
" earns MVP at
Great Lakes
Invitational
By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
DETROIT - Entering the Great Lakes Invitational
on Dec. 27, the Michigan hockey team had two con-
cerns: how rusty the Wolverines would look after a
three-week layoff and
how the offense would MICHIGAN TECH 0
adapt to the absence of its MICHIGAN 5
leadingscorer, sophomore -
Aaron Palushaj. MICHIGAN 5
. LouieCaporusso MICHIGAN ST. 1
answered both questions -
in 12 minutes.
With eight minutes left in the first period of the
tournament's opening round against Michigan Tech,
the sophomore forward completed a natural hat trick,
effectively clinching the eventual 5-0 victory before

the first intermission.
1 The Woodbridge, Ontario native added another
goal the following night in No. 10 Michigan's 5-1, tour-
nament-clinching win over Michigan State. Caporus-
so's prolific weekend earned him tournament MVP
honors. The Wolverines (7-5 CCI{A,13-7 overall) have
now won five of their last six games.
See GLI. Page 3B

Laval Lucas-Perry transferred to Michigan from
Arizona after less than a semester in Tucson. Now
in maize and blue, 'LLP' has found the perfect fit
for his explosive shooting abilities.

The day before the Michigan
men's basketball team upset
then-No. 4 Duke, redshirt fresh-
man Laval Lucas-Perry played
the part of Blue Devil Kyle Sin-
gler on the scout team.
This was normal for Lucas-
Perry. Since he was the most
talented Wolverine on the scout
team, he often played the part of
the opposing team's best player.
It was a role he had to play while
sitting out a year after transfer-
ring from Arizona.
After being outrebounded by
12 against Duke when the two
teams played two weeks before,
Michigan coach John Beilein
added another rim atop the bas-
ket to cause more rebounds.
Shortly after the drill began,
Lucas-Perry swished a high-arc-
ing 3-pointer from the left wing.
Beilein stopped the drill for a
moment.
"Laval, you weren't supposed
to make that shot," he said.
"Great shot."
Minutes later, against Michi-
gan's starting five on a normal
rim, Lucas-Perry hita step-back,
fade-away jumper in the face of
freshman guard St nDouglass.
To those in attendance, it was
clear Lucas-Perry was special.
It's good to be back
Had it not been for the unex-
pected departure of former
Arizona coach Lute Olson,
Lucas-Perry probably would still
be in Tucson, Ariz., and Michi-
gan would be without one of its
top shooters.
After rivals.com ranked him
a top-25 point guard as a senior

at Flint Powers Catholic High
School, Lucas-Perry chose Ari-
zona over Boston College, Iowa,
Michigan State, Penn State, Wis-
consin and Michigan. Olson was
one of the main reasons he chose
to leave his home state.
Lucas-Perry felt comfortable
with Olson, the way he ran his
program and the success that the
Wildcats had had on the court.
Olson took a leave of absence
prior to the first game of the sea-
son due to undisclosed personal
and medical reasons, and with
interim coach Kevin O'Neill at
the helm, Lucas-Perry decided
to transfer.
Lucas-Perry averaged just
four points, 1.6 rebounds and .8
assists per game in five games at
Arizona.
Last December, Lucas-Perry
informed Beilein of his deci-
sion to attend Michigan. Due to
NCAA regulations, Lucas-Perry
had to sit out the rest of last sea-
son and the first semester. Sit-
ting on the bench wasn't easy for
him, especiallywhilehewatched
Michigan finish 10-22.
"365 dayssis a long time,"
Lucas-Perry said.
When the 2008-09 season
rolled around, local message
boards started heating up with
speculation about how Lucas-
Perry would fit into the lineup
when he became eligible Dec. 20
against Oakland.
With nine games and count-
less hours of practice already
behind them, there was a chance
the Wolverines would have a
rough time welcoming a new
See LUCAS-PERRY, Page 3B

KRISTA BOYD/Dail
ABOUT
L AVA L
Height: six feet,
three inches
Weight: 185
pounds
Forty Time: 494
seconds
* High School:
Flint Powers
Catholic
AAU Team: The
Michigan
Mustangs
Rated the No. 6
recruit in the state
of Michigan as a
high school senior
(Manny Harris was
No. 2)
Committed to
Arizona: July 19,
2006
Transferred to
Michigan: Dec:19,
2007
Named one of
Dick Vitale's top
five impact trans-
fers of 2008-09
Wants to apply
to the Ross School
of Business, accord-
ing to mgoblue.com

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Loule Caporusso tallied four goals en route to
Michigan's second straight GLI Championship.


4

2B - January 7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Wolverines win
out at Orange
Bowl Classic

English class resumes in
Wash tenaw County

a

First-year coach
focuses on team
bonding during
weeklong trip
By MARTY LAROUERE
Daily Sports Writer
Though the Michigan football
team didn't go bowling this year,
the men's swimming team did -
and it dominated.
No. 4 Michigan won all of its 11
events against competition from
Duke, Rutgers and George Mason
in the Orange Bowl Classic in Key
Largo, Fla.
Victories by sophomores Tyler
Clary and Neal Kennedy and
senior Bobby Savulich highlight-
ed the non-scoring meet. Clary
swept both the 50-meter and
100-meter backstroke events,
while Kennedy won both breast-
stroke and Savulich both free-
style events.
Junior Alon Mandel also stood
out, finishing second in the 100-
meter backstroke and helping
the 200-meter medley relay team
earn first place.
"In my opinion, Alon is the
best backstroker on this team,"
first-year Michigan coach Mike
Bottom said. "He proved to me he
can compete in the event and has
the willingness to improve."
For the first time this sea-
son, the team's races were mea-
sured in meters instead of yards.
This slightly altered Michigan's
approach to last weekend's meet.
Bottom said swimming in
meters was "liberating". Instead
of worrying about individual
times, swimmers focused on
their stroke counts and the other
swimmers in their race, which
made for a more relaxed atmo-
sphere at the meet.
Prior to the Jan. 3 meet, the

team had a week-long training
period in Florida.Bottom stressed
conditioning, intelligence and
building team camaraderie.
The swimmers trained for
seven to eight hours each day,
which included a dry land prac-
tice with running drills, morning
and afternoon pool practices and
a weight lifting session.
Bottom was pleased with the
physical progress his team made
over the week and praised former
Michigan coach Bob Bowman for
instilling discipline in the pro-
gram.
"They are physically prepared
and well-conditioned," Bottom
said. "Bob was a real driver. He
made them do incredible amounts
of swimming and that has carried
over to this year."
In additionto physical training,
Bottom also stressed strength-
ening every swimmer's mental
approach.
"Because Michigan is academi-
cally the brightest of schools in
the top 10, everyone here needs to
use that to our advantage, break
out and think creatively," he said.
Savulich heeded his coach's
calling at the Orange Bowl Clas-
sic and made personal improve-
ments.
"Bobby made critical changes
to his stroke technique in the
freestyle events," Bottom said.
"It's not just about swimming
back and forth, but having cre-
ative intelligence and constantly
evaluating yourself."
The swimmers spent a lot of
time interacting with each other
outside of the pool with activi-
ties like snorkeling and boating,
which helped build team chem-
istry.
After their solid showing in
the Orange Bowl Classic, the
Wolverines are poised to prove
themselves on the national scene
against No. 6 Tennessee and No.
14 Indiana this weekend.

The news from the Michi-
gan football program over
the holiday break was
mostly about departures.
Defensive coordinator Scott
Shafer
"resigned."
Dual-threat
quarterback
Shavodrick
Beaver decom-
mitted for the
greener pas-
tures of..Tulsa?
But the big- NATE
gest college SANDALS
football story
in Washtenaw
County over the break was an
arrival, and it didn't come to Ann
Arbor.
Believe it or not, the biggest
news came just down the road in
Ypsilanti.
For those of you who missed
it, former Michigan defensive
coordinator Ron English was intro-
duced as the head coach at Eastern
Michigan on Dec. 22. The hiring
came one year and four days after
Rich Rodriguez was introduced as
Michigan's head coach - a job Eng-
lish reportedly interviewed for.
This column isn't calling into
question the Rich Rodriguez hir-
ing, nor is it suggesting English
should have replaced Lloyd Carr at
Michigan.
But English deserved a chance
to runa program. Carr certainly
thought so. After all, Carr was
brought in by Eastern to consult on
its search, and you better believe
he played a big role getting Eng-
lish's foot in the door.a
Now that he has the job, it's up
to English to prove himself as a
leader, and there's little doubt he
has the tools.
At Eastern, English is charged
with turning around a program
that is awful, even by Mid-
American Conference standards.
The Eagles went 3-9 last season,
includinga loss to Toledo. Sound
familiar?
All skewed comparisons to

I

4

FILE PHOTO
Eastern Michigan coach Ron English was recently hired by the Eagles after a coaching search orchestrated by former Michigan
coach Lloyd Carr. English served as defensive coordinator for the Wolverines for two years.

Michigan aside, it will be inter-
esting to see English develop as
a head coach just down the road
from where he made a name for
himself as a defensive coordinator.
English is an energetic, young
coach who has great recruiting
ties across the country, especially
on the West Coast. English won't
compete with Michigan for top
recruits while he's in Ypsilanti.
The Eagles haven't had a wincing
season since 1995, and they won't
have one in 2009, either. ,
But this is the first stop in what
is likely to be a long coaching
career. Five years from now, don't
be surprised if English is the head
coach for a big-time program.

After watching English's intro-
ductory press conference, it was
easy to see he still has the fire that
helped make Michigan's 2006
defense one of the best in school
history. Sure he was working with
a lot of talent, but talent doesn't
translate to success without good
coaching.
English becomes one of just
six black head coaches at the 119
Football Bowl Subdivision teams,
and for many, that will be the big-
gest angle on his hiring. English
told the Ann Arbor News at his
introductory press conference that
he would rather just be known asa
head coach, regardless of his race.
But he admitted that the lack of

minority representation in head
coaching positions is an "issue."
For now, the color of English's
skin might be what draws atten-
tion to his hiring at Eastern
Michigan. But with his energy
and passion for coaching, success
on the field will likelybe the story
when he leaves the Eagles for a
high-profile gig.
And the Wolverines won't have
to wait long to see what it's like to
have their old coach glowering at
them from across the field.
English's Eagles visit the Big
House on Sept. 19.
- Sandals can be reached
at nsandals@umich.edu.


40

0

I

I

I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

January 7, 2009 - 3B

Balanced attack propels
Blue to tournament title

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
DETROIT - Entering this sea-
son, Michigan hockey coach Red
Berenson stressed the importance
of balanced scoring if the Wolver-
ines wanted to repeat their success-
es from last year.
But the first NOTEBOOK
half of the season
was marred with
inconsistency. The Wolverines' top
scorers were lighting the lamps,
but the production from the bottom
half of the lineup wasn't there.
Michigan has tallied 68 goals
this season, but half of them came
from three players - Caprosusso,
Palushaj and freshman forward
David Wohlberg.
But in the GLI, which took place
December 27th and 28th at the Joe
Louis Arena in Detroit, not only did
No. 10 Michigan's leading scorers
tally goals, but much of the Wol-
verines' offense came from unlikely
sources.
Junior acting captain Chris
Summers tallied a surprising three
assists against Michigan State in
the tournament championship,
with three assists on the 28th,
to bring the defenseman's career
total to four goals and seven assists
against the Spartans.
More unexpected than Sum-
mers's breakout was the play of
some of Michigan's unheralded for-
wards.
In the tournament's first game,
a 5-0 win against Michigan Tech,
rarely-used junior forward Antho-

ny Ciraulo, got his name up on the
scoreboard.
The Wolverines played without
sophomore forwards Matt Rust
and Aaron Palushaj, who played
for Team USA in the IIHF World
Junior Championship during the
tournament. Their absences opened
up a spot for Ciraulo on the fourth
line.
Ciraulo took advantage of the
ice time, threading a wrist shot
past a shell shocked Husky goalie
Josh Robinson. His goal extended
Michigan's lead to 4-0 in the first
period.
"We knew our fourth line would
be important," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said. "They looked good
in practice. They were excited.
Ciraulo hasn't played much this
year, but he came out and gave us a
good game."
The entire second line - seniors
Brandon Naurato and Travis Turn-
bull and sophomore Ben Winnett
- had combined for just eight goals
this season before the tournament.
But all three tallied a goal in the
championship game against the
Spartans.
A key for the Wolverines heading
into the latter part of conference
play will be whether they can con-
tinue to get balanced scoring from
all of their lines.
KAMPFER RETURNS: Junior
defenseman Steve Kampfer
returned from injury against Mich-
igan Tech. Kampfer fractured his
skull in an off-campus altercation
on October 12 and was out for two
months.

ranked 17th in final ni
By MARK BURNS sets by Nebraska on Dec. 12.
Daily Sports Writer Michigan (26-9 overall) con-
sistently showed its resiliency
Down 2-1 in the first round of throughout the year. Midway
the NCAA Tournament against through the season, the Wolverines
then-No. 20 Kentucky on Dec. traveled to Illinois and Purdue,
4, the Michigan volleyball team where they lost two heartbreak-
could have easily given up, called ing, five-set matches. Wins at
it a season and returned home. both schools could have propelled
But the Wolverines rallied to Michigan to a third- or fourth-
win a five-set thriller and advance place finish in the Big Ten instead
to the next round of the NCAA of its eventual fifth-place finish.
Tournament. But the Wolverines didn't let
The second-round match the the losses shake their confidence.
next day was nearly dejA vu for the After the two road defeats, Michi-
then-19th-ranked Wolverines. gan finished Big Ten play with a
Michigan coach Mark Rosen 6-2 record, led by sophomore set-
found his team down 2-1 again, ter Lexi Zimmerman. The Bar-
this time against 13th-seeded St. rington, Ill., native was the main
Louis. The Wolverines won in five architect of the highly potent
sets and advanced to the Sweet 16 Michigan offensive attack.
before they were swept in three She helped the Wolverines fin-

His impact on the ice was felt
immediately, with two assists dur-
ing the tournament.
"First game back, I felt a little
rusty, but as the game went on,
I felt a lot better," Kampfer said.
"Playing with (sophomore) Tristin
(Llewellyn) really helped out a lot."
Kampfer was paired with
Llewellyn on the third defensive
line. Lewellyn's physical presence
on the ice made it easier for Kamp-
fer, who still needs to be cautious
after the injury.
GETTING BORED: Sophomore
goaltender Bryan Hogan faced 15
shots in the first period against
Michigan State. After that, he saw
just five.
Sowhatdoes agoalie do whenhis
team seems to be on an extended
power play deep in the opponent's
zone and he rarely sees the puck?
"You try to stay awake," Hogan
said. "That's the toughest part,
being included in the whole game
even when you don't face many
shots."
Michigan fired 54 shots against
Michigan State, and Hogan faced
just 20. He also shut out Michigan
Tech the night before. Although he
didn't have to work too hard in net,
his efforts were still enough to earn
him a spot on the GLI All-Tourna-
ment team.
NOTES: Michigan players took
four of the six spots on the GLI
All-Tournament team. Caporusso,
Summers, Hogan and sophomore
defenseman Chad Langlais were all
recognized on the ice after the Wol-
verines' tournament win.
ational poll
ish ranked No. 17 in the season's
final poll, their highest ranking of
the season.
With the team losing seniors
Beth Karpiak and Kerry Hance,
Rosen will look to now-freshman
libero Sloane Donhoff and now-
junior hitters Megan Bower and
Juliana Paz next season. The trio
will need to elevate its play if the
Wolverines want to contend with
Big Ten powerhouses Penn State,
Illinois and Purdue.
Michigan will need to continue
to improve the blocking aspect of
its game if it wants to contend for
next season's conference title. The
Wolverines finished dead last in
the Big Ten in the category, and
the inability to team block severe-
ly plagued the Wolverines all sea-
son.
game, Novak's light-out, fearless
shooting could be the difference
down the stretch if he gets a few
good looks.
Growing up, the Chesterton,
Ind., native used to root for the
Hoosiers and made the three-and-
a-half-hour trip to Bloomington
several times to watch games from
the stands. He even attended for-
mer Indiana coach Bobby Knight's
basketball camps, where the coach
taught him and the other attend,-
ees, "If you see a nice-lookin' girl,
turn and run the other way, 'cause
she's going to kill you."
"That's what I remember stick-
ing with me," Novak said with a
laugh. "I was in third grade, and he
was telling me about girls."
game and Michigan State scores

just 1.59.
The Wolverines were the clear
favorite to win this tournament
with or without Palushaj.
But Michigan's season so far
has been unpredictable. The Wol-
verines have lost to conference
doormats Northern Michigan and
Western Michigan. Michigan play-
ers admitted after a series-split with
the Broncos on Nov. 14-15 that the
team's mental preparation was a
concern.
That the Wolverines so thor-
oughly ripped apart two inferior
opponents in the GLI suggests they
finally realize they can't take any-
thing for granted. Besides recent
victoriesovertalent-deficientteams,
Michigan notched its signature win
of the season at No. 3 Minnesota on
Nov. 28.
In its last five victories, Michi-
gan has scored 27 goals, all in front
of sophomore goalie Bryan Hogan,
who appears to have locked up the
full-time starting job in net. After a
shaky start this season, the Wolver-
ines appear to have finally found a
sense of urgency.
And with games against top-
ranked Notre Dame and No. 6
Miami (Ohio) this month, "urgen-
cy" will be the operative word with
Michigan looking to solidify a spot
in the NCAA Tournament.

JEREMY CHO/Daly
Senior Carly Benson led Michigan in scoring with 21 points, but the Wolverines fell to Penn State 76-58 Sunday.
After two road losses,~gn okso
co ence toughness
Borseth says team long year." upsets, defense kept it in the game
Toughness is a hard area to and allowed its confidence to
must focus on coach, but other weaknesses of build. On the road, that confidence
this Michigan team are also being is missing, and it is affecting other
tebounding to addressed. areas of the team's game.
-nSenior guard Jessica Minnfield Borseth believes the team he
said that Borseth is doing all he puts on the court can turn things
can to drill his players in practice, around and improve its play. He's
By TIM ROHAN and ifthey don't execute,theyhave working with the players in prac-
Daily Sports Writer to run as punishment. Rebound- tice and believes firmly in the
ing and transition offense are two idea of identifying weaknesses in
Some people are afraid of spi- things Borseth noted as key areas games and working on them in
ders. Others are afraid of heights. to improve down the stretch. practice.
Michigan women's basketball But something still needs to be Although some coaches .might
coach Kevin Borseth is afraid of done about the team's poor per- make drastic lineup changes to get
his team peaking too early. formance on the road. Minnfield a team rolling, that is not part of
That's exactly what Borseth was thinks it's just about confidence. Borseth's pedigree.
worried about when Michigan lost "We know that we have a bad "Some people wear the same
76-58 at Penn State Sunday. He record on the road," she said. "And socks every game," Borseth said.
also questioned the Wolverines' I feel like we all think that, and "Some people eat the same meal. I
toughness on the road, where his have a mindset that we go into it start the same lineup."
team is just 3-5 this season. thinking 'All right, we are on the Michigan takes on Illinois (0-4,
Michigan (1-2 Big Ten, 8-6 over- road. We have to play hard. We 4-11) Thursday night at Crisler
all) upset then-No.8 Notre Dame usually lose on the road.' So I feel Arena. The Fighting Illini have
and then-No.13 Vanderbilt earlier like it's a level of confidence that lost five straight and 11 of their last
in the season, butboth games were we all need to have." 12 games.
played at Crisler Arena. But confidence is something Benson acknowledged that the
In those upsets, the Wolverines the Wolverines don't intrinsically Wolverines must go at least .500
shot the ball well and relied on have just yet. in the Big Ten to make the NCAA
their defense to slow the opposi- "If we get down, we lose con- tournament.
tion. fidence," senior forward Carly Borsethsaidhe thinks Michigan
Now, after a game in which Benson said. "And a lot of that is can stay competitive in road games
Michigan gave up 20 offensive probably from our lack of success justby improving in practice.
rebounds, Borseth is attemptingto in the past. "We can't afford to have off
fix his team's weaknesses in prac- "We are capable of playing well nights," Borseth said. "You have
tice. together, and I think that does help off nights. That's how it goes. And
"We've got a long way to go," build our confidence. If we can just you have on nights.
Borseth said after the loss Sunday. consistently work on that, and not "We just have to get a little bit
"We better all buckle up. Every get down on ourselves when little better at what we do, so that when
player better buckle up and play things go wrong, we'll be okay." we do have an off night ... we can
a little harder, or it's going to be a In Michigan's early-season rally to make something happen."
LUCAS-PERRY: Redshirt freshman
steps up in first game as Wolver ine

HOOSIERS
From page 1B
Beilein said. "This has been going
on for a long time, We're not going
to be the first team to have trouble
winning on the road."
The Wolverines (1-1 Big Ten, 11-3
overall) could face an adjustment
period early while they get used to
playing in front of a hostile crowd,
like the one they'll face in Indiana's
Assembly Hall. Michigan has only
played one true road game this sea-
son, a loss to Maryland.
Last year, Michigan played six
games away from home, includ-
ing losses to Harvard and Duke.
Although Beilein acknowledges
GLIs
From page l B
Junior forward Brian Lebler
moved to the top line to replace
Palushaj, who along with sopho-
more Matt Rust, missed the GLI to
play with Team USA at the World
Junior Championships. The trio of
Lebler, Caporusso and freshman
David Wohlberg combined for an
eight-point weekend. Michigan
coach Red Berenson admitted he
was surprised how crisp his offense
looked after having just three prac-
tices in the previous two weeks.
"We needed to play in (Michigan
Tech's) zone, and that's where the
chances occurred," Berenson said
after the opening game. "I thought
Wohlberg made a couple of great
plays to Louie. ... And they worked
hard. It wasn't like the goals came
easy. Louie was in the right place at
the right time."
The final two periods of play
against the Spartans were perhaps
the Wolverines' most dominating
performance this season.
. Michigan scored four goals and
outshot Michigan State 36-5 during
the final two frames of the champi-
onship round. The Wolverines dis-
played excellent puck possession by
winning almost every battle along
the boards, beating defenders to

the pros of scheduling tough road
games early in the season, he's not
too worried about the Wolverines'
lack of road-game experience.
"At this point, you'd like to have
had some success on the road,"
Beilein said. "But I thought our
team this year didn't need to have
a schedule like last year, where the
road games became road losses,
and you lose your confidence."
Freshman Zack Novak, who
seems to be building confidence
with every game, will likely get
his first road start today despite
receiving six stitches above his left
eye during the Wolverines' win
over the Fighting Illini. With stars
Manny Harris and DeShawn Sims
likely drawing heavy pressure all
loose pucks and putting relentless
pressure on Michigan State goalie
Jeff Lerg.
Forced to scramble so much in
their own zone, the Spartans had
few chances to break out in transi-
tion.
"I think Michigan played very
well," Michigan State coach Rick
Comley said. "Good team, good
speed, worked hard. And once they
got going, there was nothing we
could do.
"Our young kids just couldn't
handle that speed - their speed and
their strength."
Michigan Tech coach Jamie
Russell echoed a similar sentiment
after the opening round, indicating
his team played too hesistantly and
wasn't physical enough to keep up
with the Wolverines' superior tal-
ent.
"Michigan's a very good skating
team," Russell said. "They get up on
their toes and move their feet well.
If you make soft plays and soft deci-
sions, you're going to pay for it."
Berenson said the Wolverines
must take the GLI title with "a grain
of salt," since the Huskies (1-11-2
WCHA, 5-15-2) and Spartans (3-9-
2-2 CCHA, 6-13-3) are in the midst
of horrendous seasons. Both teams
are at the bottom of their respective
conferences in scoring. Michigan
Tech averages just 1.32 goals per
at

From page 1B
player to the court. But Beilein
knew Lucas-Perry would be an
integral part of the lineup once
he was allowed to play. Earlier
this season, he would sometimes
include Lucas-Perry in drills with
the starting five.
And as Lucas-Perry's first game
grew nearer, Beilein put him into
the starting lineup more often in
practice. But like any new addi-
tion, there was a chance his pres-
ence wouldn't fit with the team's
on-court cohesion.
"We didn't talk a lot about it,
but we did talk about this being a
transition and that it was going to
be bumpy," Beilein said. "We were
trying to prepare them a little bit,
but there is just agreat teamchem-
istry going on right now."
In Lucas-Perry's first game, it
was clear Beilein's changes paid
off.
THE DEBUT
With wins against UCLA and
Duke alreadyinthebag,the excite-
ment surrounding the Michigan
men's basketball program was the
highest it has been in a long time.
And the addition of Lucas-Perry
just added to it.
With 13:13 left in the first half
against Oakland, Lucas-Perry
rose from Michigan's bench and
walked toward the scorer's table.
With his jersey rolled up at the
shoulders, Lucas-Perry looked
comfortable and ready to play.
With about 40 family members
in attendance, he felt like he was
back in high school.
"I was ready for this moment,"

Lucas-Perry said. "They were all
ready for me. All my friends texted
me before the game."
And according to sophomore
Manny Harris, there was a lot on
the line withLucas-Perry's first
shot.
"(Junior) DeShawn (Sims) said
if (Lucus-Perry) missed his first
shot, (Sims) was going to knock
(Lucus-Perry) out," Harris said
with a smile.
About a minute after he entered
the game, Lucas-Perry made his
first impact play as a Wolverine.
Playing the wing of the 1-3-1 zone
defense, Lucas-Perry drew an
offensive foul on Oakland.
And then it happened - Lucas-
Perry made the shot that prevent-
ed Sims from attacking him.
Lucas-Perry buried a 3-pointer
from the left wing, bringing the
Michigan faithful to a thunderous
cheer.
Seconds later, he hit another.
And another.
Before Oakland had a chance to
see what happened, Lucas-Perry
had sunk three quick 3-pointers
and sparked a 17-3 run.
"I'm not surprised," fifth-year
senior C.J. Lee said. "That man
can score the ball very easily. He
had open looks. We expect him to
knock those down every time."
DEADLY SHOOTER
Just how good is he frombehind
the arc?
According to Harris, Lucas-
Perry's 4-for-6 performance from
downtown against Oakland wasn't
a fluke.
"(He makes) almost 90 percent
in practices from behind the arc,"

Harris said. "That's why when he
missed one, I kind of smiled, like
I was surprised. He's open, he
doesn't usually do that."
Lucus-Perry's undeniable
skills were evident in a popular
YouTube video of him at Arizona
blocking Jarryd Bayless, the No. 11
draft pick in the 2008 NBA Draft.
But Lucas-Perry isn't just a perim-
eter player.
His size (a strong 6-foot-3, 185
lbs.) will come in handy during Big
Ten season - especially playing as
a guard, a position where Michi-
gan lacks big men.
In five games, Lucas-Perry has
shot 44 percent from the field and
50 percent frombehind the arc. He
is averaging 11.6 points per game.
Even when Lucas-Perry has
struggled making baskets, he has
still found a way to score. Despite
scoring on just 6 of 18 shots in
Michigan's two Big Ten games, he
still scored more than 10 points in
both games.
With that type of efficiency,
he will likely be the Wolverines'
third-leading scorer behind Har-
ris (18.8) and Sims (16.6) by the
end of the season.
Lucas-Perry cemented himself
in the Wolverine lineup, by start-
ing for the first time against Illi-
nois. And expect him to remain in
the starting five for the rest of the
season.
Beilein has said all season that
for Michigan to compete in the Big
Ten, his team needs to find a con-
sistent third scorer.
Since Lucas-Perry stepped off
the practice floor and into the
games, Beilein might have found
what he has been looking for.

'A


4B - January 7, 2009

S -I
portsWednesday

The Michigan Daily -- michigandailycom


SportsWednesday The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

PAPAJOHNS.COM BOWL ,
RUTGERS 29, NORTH CAROLINA STATE 23
And the game ball goes to: The Scarlet Knights."
After startingtheir first Ray Rice-less season 1-5,
they rifled off seven straight wins, capping an improbable turn-
around with a win over the Wolfpack.
Best bowlname: This one. Why not just the Papa Johns Bowl?
Because that's lame. Papajohns.com it is.
ANDYREID
PACIFIC LIFE HOLIDAY BOWL
OREGON 42, OKLAHOMA STATE 31
And the game balligoes to: Oregon quarter-
back Jeremiah Masoli struggled in the first half,
but the sophomore must have made some adjust-
ments at halftime. Masoli ran for three third-quarter touchdowns and
added a passing score in the final frame, finishing with 364 yards of
total offense.
Most disappointing subplot: Oklahoma State wide receiver Dez
Bryant was completely unstoppable early in this game, victimizing
Oregon's defensive backs to the tune of nine receptions for 110 yards
and a score before halftime. But Bryant injured his left knee on an awk-
ward tackle late in the second quarter, and his explosiveness was virtu-
ally gone.
IAN KAY
EAGLE BANK BOWL
WAKE FOREST 29, NAVY 19
I didn't change the channel because: I
wanted to see if Wake Forest would throw an a
incomplete pass. Quarterback Riley Skinner led a
comeback, going 1t-for-11passingon the game and completing a pass
for a two-point conversion.
Craziest moment of the game: Why anyone would want to go a
bowl game at old RFK Stadium in Washington D.C. in freezing cold
weather to watch a mediocre bowl game. That's probably why just
30,000 fans showed up.
CHRIS MESZAROS
KONICA MINOLTA GATOR BOWL
NEBRASKA 26, CLEMSON 21d
Closest call: Cornhusker backup quarterback
Patrick Witt seemingly fumbled the ball, which
was then returned for a touchdown by the Clemson
defense. After reviewing the play, the officials deemed his knee was
down before the ball came out.
Most interesting part of the game: The second half. Clemson
went into the half with a 14-3 lead, but Nebraska coach Bo Pelini must
have remembered his team was in the Big12 conference, which could
have spurred the team's 20-point, third-quarter explosion.
TIM ROHAN
OUTBACK BOWL
IOWA 31, SOUTH CAROLINA 10
And the game ball goes to: Iowa's Shonn
Green, who cemented his status as the nation's
best running back with 121 rushingyards and
three touchdowns. Green was the sole reason the Hawkeyes were rel-
evant this season, rushing for over 100 yards each game.
Best imitation of Michigan quarterback Nick Sheridan: Game-
cocks quarterback Stephen Garcia. He committed a turnover on each of
South Carolina's first four possessions.
FELIX CARREON
VALERMO ALAMO BOWL
MISSOURI 30, NORTHWESTERN 23 (OT)
I didn't change the channelbecause: I couldn't
take myeyes off of the field. It wasblue.In fact, I
read that officials at Boise State have had a problemn
with birds dive-bombinginto the turf. I wasn't goingto be the one that
missed a bird possibly lunging mid-play at Nevada quarterback Colin
Kaepernick.
Andthe game ballgoes to: Maryland running back Da'Rel Scott.
Scott, who was suspended for the first half after breaking curfew the
night before, ran for174 yards and twontouchdowns in only a quarter and
a half of work. Maryland coach Ralph Friedgen responded to the curfew-
breaking byclaiming, "This isn't my first rodeo". Well, on his next rodeo, a
nice slap on the wrist will do just fine..
KEVIN RAFTERY

TEXAS BOWL
RICE 38, WESTERN MICHIGAN 14
I didn't change the channel because:-There
weren't many reasons to stay tuned after the
Owls took a 38-0 lead, butI kept watching to see
if somehow Rice quarterback Chase Clement could score in every way
possible. He passed, ran, and caught a touchdown, leaving only a field
goal and an interception return.
Andthe game ball goes to: Clement. In his final collegiate game, he
accounted for almost 400 yards and five touchdowns. But the award for
"notforfeiting when your team's spirit has clearly been broken" goes to
Western Michigan coach Bill Cubit, who got a contract extension that day.
RYAN KARTJE
ROADY'S HUMANITARIAN BOWL
NEVADA 42, MARYLAND 35
I didn't change the channel because: I couldn't
take my eyes off of the field. It was blue. In fact, I read
that officials at Boise State have had a problem with
birds dive-bombinginto the turf. I wasn'tgoingto be the one that missed
a bird possibly lunging mid-play at Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
And the game ball goes to: Maryland running back Da'Rel Scott.
Scott, who was suspended for the first half after breaking curfew the
night before, ran for 174 yards and two touchdowns in only a quarter and
a half of work. Maryland coach Ralph Friedgen responded to the curfew-
breaking by claiming, "This isn't my first rodeo". Well, on his next rodeo, a
nice slap on thewristwill do just fine..
RYAN KARTJE
FIESTA BOWL
TEXAS 24, OHIO STATE 21k
It was over when: With 16 seconds left in the
fourth quarter and the Longhorns down 21-17,
Texas quarterback Colt McCoy hit senior Quan
Cosby on a quick slant, which Cosby turned into the game-winning
touchdown by slithering through the Buckeye defense.
Bum ofthe game: Buckeye quarterback Terrelle Pryor had a five-
yard touchdown, but the freshman phenom has some work to do this
summer, considering he was a measly 5-of-14 passing and split time
under center with senior Todd Boeckman.
ALEX PROSPERI
INTERNATIONAL BOWL
BUFFALO 28, UCONN 20
Mostvaluable player: Before Jan. 3, few people
knew the name Donald Brown. But'after Connecti-
cut's 38-20 victory over Buffalo last Saturday, he's a
little more popular. The junior rushed for 261 yards on just 29 carries,
including a 45-yard touchdown run.
Reason for disappointment: Brown had some bad news for Husky
fans at the postgame press conference - he's foregoing his senior sea-
son and declaring for the NFL Draft.
ALEX PROSPERI
AUTOZONE LIBERTY BOWL
KENTUCKY 25, EAST CAROLINA 19
Biggest momentum change: Kentucky
returned an East Carolina fumble for a touchdown,
but the play was overturned. Then the Wildcats did
it again to break the 19-19 tie. Defensive end Ventrell Jenkins recovered
and returned the ball 56yards with just over three minutes left.
I didn't change the channel because: East Carolina, the Confer-
ence USA champion, led by 13 at halftime and kept its SEC foe on its
heels for most of the game.
ANDREW CLAUW
COTTON BOWL
MISSISSIPPI 47, TEXAS TECH 34
And the game ball goes to: Mississippi wide
receiver Dexter McCluster, who torched the Texas
Tech defense for 180 total yards and a touchdown. The 5-foot-8 junior
averaged nine yards per touch.
Most surprising part ofthe game: The Rebels outgained the Red
Raiders 515-469. And Texas Tech's offense thrived despite sophomore
wide receiver Michael Crabtree haulinginjust four catches for 30
yards (and a touchdown).
GJONJUNCAJ

ORANGE BOWL
VIRGINIA TECH 20, CINCINNATI 7 .
You knew it was over when: Cincinnati run-
ning back John Goebel, a former Birmingham
Brother Rice standout, was called for roughingthe kicker
with just under six minutes to play in regulation. The penalty virtually
eliminated any chance of a Bearcat comeback.
And the game ball goes to: The Virginia Tech defense. After giv-
ing up a touchdown on the opening drive, the Hokies didn't give up
another point the rest of the way. They picked off Bearcat quarterback
Tony Pike four times and stuffed Pike on fourth-and-goal with just
over seven minutes to play.
KEVIN RAFTERY
GAYLORD HOTELS MUSIC CITY BOWL
VANDERBILT 16, BOSTON COLLEGE 14
And the game ball goes to: Commodore kick-
er Bryan Hahnfeldt. The Nashville, Tenn., native
tied his career high with three field goals, includ-
ing the 45-yard game-winner with 3:26 left.
Craziest moment of the game: Vanderbilt's lone touchdown came
on a punt with 10:35 left in the third quarter. The Commodore punt
bounced off the knee of Boston College returner Paul Anderson and
was recovered for Vanderbilt by Sean Richardson. After a long replay
review, the call was confirmed.
GILAD BERKOWITZ
INDEPENDENCE BOWL
LOUISIANA TECH 17, NORTHERN ILLINOIS
10
Andthe game ball goes to: Louisiana Tech
cornerback Weldon Brown. As a kid, he played Pop
Warner games at Shreveport's Independence Sta-
dium. Fittingly, Brown looked like a man among boys
in his final college performance. The senior recorded 14 tackles and made
every defensive play imaginable: he recovered a muffed punt, picked off a
pass, forced another interception on a blitz and came up with two fourth-
down stops.
Most exciting play ofthe game: "He can break one at any time," ESPN
announcer Pam Ward said as Louisiana Tech's Phillip Livas received a first-
quarterkickoff.FollowingWard's comment, Livas found ahole, made acut
and raced down the sideline.With only Northern Illinois's Shane Carter
betweenhimandthe end zone, Livas abruptly stopped, head fakedthenhit
the gas. Carter dove, but Livas was already long gone for a 97-yardetouch-
down.
IAN KAY
SUGAR BOWL
UTAH 31, ALABAMA 17
Most surprising part of the game: Utah won.
Biggest mistake ofthe game: Alabama sus-
pended left tackle Andre Smith four days before
the game for improper contact with an agent. Utah ripped apart the
Crimson Tide offensive line and sacked Alabama quarterback John
Parker Wilson a shocking eight times. And Smith announced the day
after the game that he was leaving for the NFL. Don't let the door hit
you on the way out.
COURTNEYRATKOWIAK
CAPITAL ONE BOWL
GEORGIA 24, MICHIGAN STATE 12
Most interesting part of the game: Michigan
State attempted a double reverse pass and the ball -
carrier looked for a receiver downfield. But Geor-
gia sniffed the play out and sacked the runner.
And the game ball goes to: The Georgia defense. The Bulldogs
held Michigan State running back Javon Ringer to just 47 rushing
yards. Ringer averaged nearly 140 yards a game this season
FELIX CARREON
INSIGHT BOWL
KANSAS 42, MINNESOTA 21
Andthe game ball goes to: Kansas quarter-
back Todd Reesing, who threw for 313 yards and0
four touchdowns. He also made a school-record 14
straight completions in the first half.
I didn't change the channel because: Well, I couldn't. The game
was only shown on the NFL Network, which I didn't have. Thank
goodness for the Internet.
KEVIN RAFTERY

EMERALD BOWL
CALIFORNIA 24, MIAMI (FLA.) 17 r
Most inspiring effort: California senior line-
backer Zack Follett finished his career with nine "
tackles and two sacks. With 3:28 left in the game, Fol-
lett forced a fumble on the nine-yard line, which the Bearsrecovered to
set up their winning drive.
Funniest moment: On the opening kickoff, Miami's kickerslipped
running up to the ball. He kicked the ball, but itsquibbed downfield to the
37-yard line.
JACK FERNBACHER
CHAMPS SPORTS BOWL
FLORIDA STATE 42, WISCONSIN 13
Best Commentary Award: ESPN, for its lovefest
of Seminole punter Graham Gano. Sure, he's good,
but no one who sees the field five times a game to kick
a ball should be showered with the type of praise John Madden gives to
Brett Favre.
I didn't change the channel because: The Badgers are in the Big
Ten. If I didn't have a vested interest in them, I would have changed
the channel before one of Gano's kicks could have plummeted from the
stratosphere.
JACK FERNBACHER
MEINEKE CAR CARE BOWL
WEST VIRGINIA 31, NORTH CAROLINA 30
Andthe game ballgoes to: West Virginia senior
quarterback Pat White, who threw for 332 yards and
three touchdowns to become the only quarterback in
college football history to start in four bowl victories. The stellar perfor-
mance might have proved to NFL scouts that he has the stuff to succeed at
the next level.
Craziest moment of the game: Actually, it was after the game. West
Virginia coach Bill Stewart laid a big kiss on the top of White's forehead
before receiving his team's trophy.
MARK BURNS
MOTOR CITY BOWL
FLORIDA ATLANTIC 24, CENTRAL MICHIGAN 21
And the game ball goes to: Florida Atlantic
quarterback Rusty Smith, who threw for more than
300 yards and two touchdowns to give the owls their
second bowl victory in school history.
Biggest momentum change: Down 17-13 in the third quarter, Central
Michigan wide receiver Antonio Brown broke free from the Owl second-
ary for a 72-yard scamper to the end zone. But a facemask penalty brought
the score back and the Chippewas had to punt.
MARK BURNS
HAWAII BOWL
NOTRE DAME 39, HAWAII 21
Commentator's MVP: Notre Dame coach Char- y
lie Weis. With two knees awaitingsurgery, Weis ran
the Fighting Irish offense from the press box with a DietCoke in hand,
not evengoing down to the locker roomfor halftime.A segmentinwhich
Weis's knees weren't discussed was about as rare as the times Weis has
weighed less than 300 pounds.
And the game ball goes to: Fighting Irish quarterback Jimmy
Clausen. Seriously. He threw for 300 yards and three touchdowns,
both Notre Dame bowl-game records, and that was just the first half.
Clausen finished with 400 yards and five touchdowns in the blowout.
MIKE EISENSTEIN
CHICK-FIL-A BOWL
LSU 38, GEORGIA TECH 3
Worst bowl game of the year: Congratula-
tions, Yellow Jackets - you were completely out-
matched by a bigger, faster and stronger opponent.
Maybe next year you should play more to your level and shoot for the
San Diego County Credit Union Poinsettia Bowl or somethinglike that.
And the game ball goes to: The Tiger defense, which held the
potent Georgia Tech triple-option attack - the same ground game that
torched Georgia for 409 yards in the regular-season finale - to just 164
rushing yards.
ANDYREID

SAN DIEGO COUNTY CREDIT UNION
POINSETTIA BOWL
TEXAS CHRISTIAN 17, BOISE STATE 16
Biggestmomentumchange: Lookingto build
on a 10-0 lead with eightminutes remaining inethe
first half, Boise State returned an interception to Texas Chris-
tian's 11-yard line. But on second down of the ensuing drive, Horned Frog
safety Stephen Hodge dropped speedy Bronco wide receiver Vinny Per-
retta for a seven-yard loss. Boise State settled for a field goal - and even-
tually lost by one point.
Andthe game ball goes to: Aaron Brown. Texas Christian's offense
isn't flashy, but it possessedthe ball more than anyother team in the
nation this season. AgainstBoise State, the Horned Frogs held the ball for
36 minutes withthe help of a grindingrushingattack. Brown led the way
with 102 yards, five first downs and one touchdown on 14 carries.
IANKAY
R+L CARRIERS NEW ORLEANS BOWL
SOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI 30, TROY 27 (OT)
Craziestmoment ofthe game: Southern
Mississippi blocked Troy's field-goal attempt in
overtime. The block was a fitting end to the Golden
Eagles' 10-point, fourth-quarter rally that tied the game at 27 and sent the
game to overtime in the first place.
Most interesting part ofthe game: Why a freighthaulingecompany
would want to have a bowl game named after itself. Who has heard of R+L
Carriers, anyway?
CHRIS MESZAROS
LAS VEGAS BOWL
ARIZONA 31, BRIGHAM YOUNG 21
Biggest momentum change: Brigham Young
missed a game-tying field goal after an impressive
12-play drive with 2:13 left in the third quarter. On
Arizona's next drive, quarterback Willie Tuitama tore apartthe Cougar
defense with three passes for 60 yards to extend the Wildcats' leadto 10.
And the game ball goes to: Tuitama. He threw for 325 yards and two
touchdowns, and also ran for a touchdown inthe fourth quarter to seal
Arizona's first bowlwin since 1998.
JACK FERNBACHER
SUN BOWL
OREGON STATE 3, PITTSBURGH 0
You knew it was over when: Pittsburgh
punted the ball on all four of its drives in the third
quarter. After a dismal first half by the Panthers'
offense, Pittsburgh gained just 28 yards in the third quarter.
Most interestingpart ofthe game: Each team punted 10 times.
The Beavers and Panthers were a combined 5-for-32 on third down
attempts.
JACK FERNBACHER
BELL HELICOPTER
ARMED FORCES BOWL
HOUSTON 34, AIR FORCE 28
I didn't change the channel because: Hous-
ton kept tempting Air Force to make a comeback.
The Cougars not only committed two turnovers in the final quarter,
but left ample time for the Eagles to win the game with a touchdown.
Lingering questions: With Houston quarterback Case Keenum
runningethe show, was this really the best offense in the nation?
The Cougar attack didn't put on much of a show. Would anyone take
Keenum seriously if he does well next year, since he hails from Confer-
ence USA?
ANTHONY OLIVEIRA
NEW MEXICO BOWL
COLORADO STATE 40, FRESNO STATE 35
It was over when:Well, it wasn't really over
until the teams had played for 59 minutes. The
Rams scored with 1:46 left to go up by 12, but
Fresno State drove the ball all the way down the field and scored less
than a minute later. Colorado State recovered the ensuing onside kick
en finally end the suspense.
And the game ball goes to: Colorado State running back Gartrell
Johnson, who ran for 285 yards and two touchdowns, including the
winningscore on a 77-yard run. He also finished with the second-most
rushing yards ever in a bowl.
COURTNEYRATKOWIAK

GMAC BOWL
BALL STATE 45, TULSA 13
You knewthe game was over when: My man- "
aging editor told me to finish this writeup after the 4
end of the third quarter with Tulsa leading 31-13.
Most interesting part of the game: It rained. Hard. Seriously, that
was probably the best part of the game. They slipped. They slid. It was
like a slip and slide with football players.
JASON KOHLER
THE MAGICJACK ST.
PETERSBURG BOWL
SOUTH FLORIDA 41, MEMPHIS 14
And the game ball goes to: South Florida's Matt Grothe, who threw
for 236 yards and three touchdowns, becomingthe Big East's newcareer
leader in offensive yards. Memphis defense did little to slow down the
experienced quarterback, who still has a year leftwith the Bulls.
Craziestmoment ofthe game: The factthat MagicJack - acom-
pany that basically sells Skype - sponsored a brand-new bowl game that
nobody asked for or wanted and then held it at a converted baseball field.
The St. Petersburg Bowl was simply just meantto be.
CLIFREEDER
ROSE BOWL
SOUTHERN CAL 28, PENN STATE 24
You knew it was over: Before it even started.
Prior to playing Penn State, Southern Cal had an
eight-game win steak against the Big Ten, averaging more than 35
points per contestewith each victory comingby a double-digit margin.
Funniestmoment: USC senior linebacker Rey Maualuga pretend-
ed to grind on ESPN sideline reporter Erin Andrews prior to the open-
ingkickoff.
MARK BURNS

Ak

Ah

r

r

A&

i

A




iii - .

V V U

W

w

0

v

-W,

-W

From the picket line

utside the gates of Fort
Benning in Columbus,
Georgia on Nov.18, 25,000
people gathered to protest the
School of the Americas. But you
wouldn't have gotten that from any
major newspaper.
The facility, recently renamed
the Western Hemisphere Institute
for Security Cooperation, trains
Latin American soldiers for com-
bat in their countries - although
many maintain that the graduates
partake not in military-style cam-
paigns, but wanton violence upon
civilian populations.
For 18 years, peaceful protests
have occurred at the Fort to call for
an end to the US' role in perpetuat-
ing and providing means for coups
and the constant oppression of a
population that such overhauls are
predicated upon. A group of Uni-
versity students including myself
made the 13-hour, Waffle House-
laden trip to join voices with the
School of the Americas Watch.
STORIES OF TORTURE
"They tortured me because I
am a writer. And because I was an
activist. I worked for labor rights,"
Maria Guandardo spoke fluidly in
her native tongue, preferring now
to communicate in Spanish since
English is marred by the nights
she spent in a Colombian prison,
brutalized by blows and slurs. Her
wordspounded into me even before
they were translated.
I am a writer. I am an activist. I
work for labor rights. If I was born
and raised in a house next door to
Maria's, I might be dead for the
words I furiously type and send off
to anyone who will read them, for
the words I shout into bullhorns on
sidewalks.
While I know that the United
States is not wholly exempt from
arresting dissenters without

affording them due process, there
doesn't need to be a word for it
here as there is in South America.
There, paramilitary forces are
notorious for "disappearing" men,
women and children, sometimes
in broad daylight, sometimes even
in front of their families or right
out of their homes. As if it is some
magic act that no one cares to gar-
ner a crowd for, thousands of peo-
ple are pushed through the trap
doors of putrefied legal systems
where whoever holds the biggest
stick gets to pick the next victim.
The majority of University stu-
dents who participated in SOA
Watch are members of activist
groups, and it became apparent to
us during the weekend that those
persecuted by SOA graduates often
took part in the same type of activ-
ist work that we engage in not only
on campus - but then and there at
Fort Benning.
While the ominous whirl of heli-
copters never left our earshot and
soldiers in fatigues patrolled the
premises, we never once had the
sense that we might die for what
we were doing, although haunted
by the ghosts of those who had.
MOURNING THE
DISAPPEARED
The main event of the week-
end is always a funeral procession
to commemorate the uncount-
able thousands massacred by the
60,000 soldiers trained at the SOA
over the last sixty years. Led by
people in black clothing and white
masks carrying white coffins, a
funeral procession inched up to the
gates of the school. Breathing new
spirit into the names of those long
dead and perhaps even longer for-
gotten, we marched towards the
gate in a steady mass as voices on
high incanted names and ages in
the intonations of Catholic clergy,

followe
who rai
low, slo
presenc
It too
but see
crosses
ingly i
chain-li

d by the crowd of mourners nique is to wholly undermine the
sed their crosses and spoke humanity of those tortured. It is
w "presente" to mark some no matter that most of these tactics
e for the deceased. are deemed illegal under interna-
k hours to reach the gates, tional accords the United State has
ing the multitude of white signed because for the federal gov-
stuck desperately, plead- ernment and the paramilitary it
nto the impossibly high trains they are all "standard oper-
nked and barbed-wire ating procedure," even if they are
performed on innocent civilians
without a shred of information to
offer

Joining the
two-decade
protest against
the School of
the Americas
fence I understood why. Mulling
over the immensity of crosses and
flowers made me feel like I was
looking at the gates of Buckingham
Palace after Princess Diana's death
or Ground Zero just after 9/11,
except that this tragedy is one that
continued on even as we mourned
it.
The School of the Americas is
a place where the sort of draco-
nian torture that we have consid-
ered morally reprehensible for
centuries and "cruel and unusual
punishment" since this coun-
try was founded is written into
textbooks and advanced with
modern techniques and technolo-
gies. According to the CIA's own
"KUBARK: Counterintelligence
Manual," these methods of so-
called enhanced interrogation "are
designed to induce regression ... the
result of external pressures of suf-
ficient intensity is the loss of those
defenses most recently acquired by
civilized man." In short, the tech-

It is ironic even that it is called
both a Fort and a School as if there
is no internal conflict between the
purpose of either.
Regardless of what it is called,
if its walls could speak- for them-
selves, they would scream.
CROSSING THE LINE
While.thousands come to dem-
onstrate, only a few protestors
engage in actual civil disobedi-
ence, such as "crossing the line."
Optimistic about President-elect
Barack Obama's promises to shut
down the SOA, only eleven people
jumped the fence into Fort Ben-
ning this year, but 226 have since
the Watch began. Wanting to
learn more about those who give
up months of their lives and up to
$1,000 for the cause, I dropped into
the workshop for those thinking of
"crossing" and found a friend.
Whenaskedonewordtodescribe
our feelings as "crossers" or "sup-
porters" a young man next to me
simply uttered a single profane
syllable: fuck. He said he wanted
to cross. He had no one to support
him so I said I would. I promised to
write him letters in jail, pay for his
bail, and when he said his school's
bus would not wait eight hours
for him as he was held at County,
I offered our van, promising we
would hold out and swing through
Indiana on our way back to drop
him off. We talked it all over with

a snide lawyer who said he made
over $150,000 a year and refused
to let us pay for our pizza.
But David did not cross. Through
the constant crowds, I saw him the
next day sitting on the curb and
cannot deny that I was disheart-
ened that he hadn't gone through
with it although I had urged him
not to- his small, private, paro-
chial college promised him that
an arrest would merit expulsion,
he would have to pay rent despite
being in prison, and his hard-head-
ed father would probably not speak
to him for some time after. But
despite all of this, something in me
will always believe in self-sacrifice
for the battles worth fighting -
especially this one, where life is the
price that is paid for protest for the
damage enacted by this facility.
TAKING TO THE STREETS
After the weekend was almost
over, after the funeral of so many
people none of us would ever know,
after donning bloodied shirts and
dresses to represent them, lying
in the streets after the machete
became a weapon of mass destruc-
tion and took out whole villages,
after I cried my eyes out like I
always do at such displays, a parade
of colorful puppets and confetti
overcame it all. Chanting and beat-
ing on drums, swinging the sweat-
ers and scarves it had suddenly
became too sunny for, we took to
the streets, dancing through them,
claiming them for ourselves, for
everyone. We reminded ourselves
that we were still alive, and that
we would fight so long as we had
to, gaining energy from the kind of
public movements everyone thinks
are now extinct.
-Beenish Ahmed is a senior in the
Residential College and the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts

HIS APPLE.
HER APPLE.
? APPLE.
WHY SINGULAR PRONOUNS
AREN'T AS SIMPLE AS A RULE
IN THE GRAMMAR BOOK
PAGE 4C

WHAT'S YOUR PERSONAL STATEMENT?

Email submissions to vosgerchian@michigandaily.com.



U U U U V

-IF

W- 9-

_W

W-

W-

w

.w

I -

Wednesday, January 7, 2009 - The Michigan Daily

40

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Lan Truong
Cover photo illustration:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

new rules
rule 167: You
really don't have to
ask how everyone's
Winter Break went.
rule 168: If you're
the only one who's
organizing your
future roommates
to sign for a house,
accept that you'll
also be the only
one to set up utili-
ties and pay bills.
rule 169: When
your friends who
went abroad this
semester send you
pictures of them-
selves enjoying
warm locales, you
don't actually have
to look at them
until spring.
- Email rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

THE EDITOR'S NOTEBOOK with JESSICA VOSGERCHIAN
A look at the big news events this week and how important they really are. Conveniently rated from one to 10.

WRITE FOR THE STATEMENT
Email vosgerchian@michigandaily.com for an application.

3

PAGING SURGEON GENERAL GUPTA
President-elect Barack Obama has reached out to CNN medical correspondent Sanjay
Gupta to serve as the next surgeon general. Gupta, a University alum with a gleaming white
smile and smooth voice, takes Obama's team of superstars to a whole new level. While the
appointment might be criticized as a media gimmick, it's sure to be welcome here. It shows
that there is room amongthe Washington elite for University alums. Well, at least the
attractive, TV-ready ones.
MUSICAL CHAIRS
All Roland W. Burris wants to do is claim his seat as Illinois senator. But having been
appointed to the position last month by scandal-ridden Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, Bur-
ris faces a chorus of opposition in the Senate that threatens to block his appointment. It's
true that Burris might have had nothing to do with Blagojevich's alleged scheme to sell
Obama's vacant seat. But with the scandal still hot as the new Congress convenes, it likely
won't matter. It's as simple as musical chairs, Burris. If you don't have a seat when the
music stops, you're out.
NOT-SO-HAPPY NEW YEAR
The world rung in the new year last week. Friends popped bottles of champagne. Boy-
friends kissed their girlfriends. Israel invaded Gaza. Obama predicted trillion-dollar defi-
cits. If you couldn't shake the feeling that the joyous New Year's Eve festivities felt a little
forced, you're not alone. Lingering just below the yells of "Happy New Year!" was the fear
that 2009 might leave us feeling nostalgic for 2008.

When Tuesday January 13th at 7:30pm
Where Palmer Commons (Great Lakes South)
Don't miss out on this inspirational opportunity!



-9 V 9 V V 9 9

v

s

0

Wednesday, January 0" Daily

ABOUT CAMPUSTR A

T4RE jUm4i o --q


QUOTES OF THE WEEK
"We are hoping and pray-
...patients were lymg ing that they will not be
everywhere, and people able to deny what the Lord
were dying before they has ordained."
got treatment." -
-ROLAND BUIRRIS a former Illinois attor

Donation duds
'U' to eccentric donors:
Thanks, but no thanks
The big donors to the University
are easy to spot. The $100 million
that Stephen M. Ross donated to the
business school is obvious to any-
one on Central Campus who looks
south, and the story of William
Cook's famous donation to build the
Law Quad is told to all prospective
students on campus tours.
But not all donations to the Uni-
versity, as anyone who has worked
for the Telefund would know, are
large, obvious or even of the mon-
etary sort. In fact, some of the
donations the University has been
offered were so bizarre or inap-
propriate they were rejected, said
Judith Malcolm, spokeswoman for
the Office of Development Commu-
nications and Donor Relations.
An alum recently offered the
University a taxidermied wolver-
ine as a token of his continuing loy-
alty to the University. But unsure of
where to display the wolverine, the
University graciously declined the
offer.
Malcolm said donations of deco-
rative items like the wolverine are
not uncommon. The University

sometimes receives clothing from
historical periods, which are passed
along to the School of Music, The-
atre and Dance, as well as works of
art, which are given to the Univer-
sity of Museum of Art if they are of
any value.
Another common donation to
the University is real estate, both
commercial and residential. Sev-
eral times, the University has been
named in a will as the titleholder to
a deed for a piece of property.
But some of these offers were
unfavorable for the University
to accept. Many times they have
unpaid mortgages which the Uni-
versity would have to pay off, are
located on contaminated lots or
have serious structural problems.
If the University is able to accept
the donation of real estate, it is
usually sold for its monetary value
unless the property could be of use
to the University.
The University will also receive
donations that it cannot accept due
to the ideology surrounding the rea-
son for the donation, Malcolm said.
"(W)e have to be careful that we
don't accept gifts that are illegal,"
she said. "(We) cannot cross the
boundaries of what an educational
instruction is supposed to do."
One donation that crossed this
boundary was a monetary gift from

a donor who wanted the University
to create a professorship in econom-
ics - one specializing in the eco-
nomic structures of fascist regimes.
Malcolm said it became evident
upon further discussion that the
potential donor did not just want a
professor to explore fascism objec-
tively, but rather to endorse it and
promote it to the students in the
class. The University did not accept
the donation.
The University has also received
donations of the theological sort.
Recently, there was an offer to fund
the construction of a chapel of a
specific undisclosed denomination
on campus. The University declined
on the grounds that it is a secular
educational institution, Malcolm
said.
It is not often that the Univer-
sity will refuse gifts. Normally, an
alum is in a constant dialogue with
the University to avoid all possible
donation hiccups or is already a fre-
quent donor who knows the ropes.
But once in awhile, a new, more
eccentric donor is spontaneously
compelled to give back, even if that
means dusting off great-grandma's
old bathing suit in the basement
or having the spoils from a recent
hunting trip taxidermied for the
sake of an alma mater.
-KRISTEN STEAGALL

k *~
ILLUSTR ATION BY L AUR A GARAVOGLIA

TALKING
POINTS'
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. War in Gaza
2. Ponzi schemes
3. Vigil parishes
And three things
you can't:
1. Richard Simmons
and feet
2. Lance Armstrong in politics
3. Ballot recounts
BY THE NUMBERS
The decline, in percentage, in car sales at Ford Motor Company last
December, compared with sales in December 2007
The decline, in percentage, in Ford's total sales in 2008
The decline in number of Ford cars sold in 2008
Source: The New York Times

- ERIK FOSSE, a Norwegian doctor volun-
teering at Shifa Hospital in Gaza, explaining
the overflow of hospital patients who were
injured during the Israel-Hamas conflict.

ney general, on his appointment by Gov. Rod
Blagojevich to fill Barack Obama's Senate seat.
Blagojevich is facing federal charges for trying
to sell Obama's seat, and many lawmakers have
threatened to block Burris' appointment.

r-

"Every time she opens her mouth, it gets worse."
- ANN COULTER, a conservative pundit and author, on Caroline Kennedy and her potential role
in filling Hillary Clinton's Senate seat. In an interview with the website wowOwow, which stands for
The Women on the Web, Coulter said that Kennedy doesn't deserve the seat and that her candidacy
is headed for a "crash landing" .

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Cooking Doggystyle
What happens when Snoop Dogg
tries his hand at more complicated
recipes than gin and juice?
In this video, Snoop works under
the watchful eye of Martha Stew-
art, who coaches Snoop on the finer
points of fresh mashed potatoes.
With his characteristic swagger
and unique, if sometimes incoherent,
dialect, Snoop starts out by telling
Stewart that he's never before cooked
potatoes with a "machine." Instead,
he says, "we inthe 'hoodwelike 'yah,
yah, yah, yah,' "while making karate
chop motions with his hands.
After Stewart tells Snoop to cut
the skin off, Snoop says "ahh, the ski-
zin," which prompts Stewart to ask
about his vocabulary. Snoop laments
the fact that nobody really under-
stands him, not even his kids. Then
he adds: "And you know what's crazy,
Martha? I don't even understand it."
When they finally start mashing
the potatoes, Snoop asks Stewart if
he can add something to it. Perhaps
predictably, Snoop then presents a
bottle of cognac that is shaped like a
voluptuous woman's body. The bot-
tle is wrapped in what appears to be
a red evening gown, with a matching
red hatadorningthetop,trulyresem-
bling a miniature woman.
The only problem, says Snoop, is
that the skirt is too low. He then deli-
cately hikes itup.
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily

A grammar turf war in the English department
PRONOUNS, FROM PAGE 5C

"they" to respect their users' desire
not to be labeled in terms of sex.
But as Facebook started to
attract users from other countries
and began to offer its services
in other languages, a problem
emerged with singular "they."
In languages where making pro-
nouns gender-specific is obliga-
tory whether in writing or speech,
there is no understandable transla-
tion for "themself."
Never once entertaining the
concept of gender-neutral "he," the
website then made users designate
themselves as male and female.
One argument against the
change is that convenient transla-
tions shouldn't come at the cost
of people's personal identities and

original meaning.
"You've chosen not to specify, so
why in translation would you have
to specify?" Curzan said.
But as Gleit wrote in The Face-
book Blog, "themself" isn't an actu-
al word, and it's also as awkward as
could be.
THE PROFESSOR'S
CHECKING PEN
Despite all the confusion sur-
rounding singular pronouns in
areas of public life, there's a reason
why most college students know
not to match their singular ante-
cedent with a plural pronoun.
"There is no such thing as sin-
gular 'they' - 'they' is plural,"
English Prof. John Rubadeau said.

"It's counter intuitive and oxymo-
ronic. There are some people in my
department who disagree with me,
but they're wrong."
For Rubadeau, spoken English
is spoken English, formal English
is formal English and Facebook is
irrelevant to the composition of
any class assignment short of being
a distraction.
It's a familiar stance for an Eng-
lish instructor, one that holds that
while it is one thing for Obama to
use plural "they" for the sake of a
more fluent speech, formal written
English requires a higher level of
grammatical attention.
"What you say and what you
write are two different things,"
Rubadeau said. " (For example,)

'Everyone has their own opinion'
- I would say it but I would never
write it, because it's basically illit-
erate."
The difference between spo-
ken English and written English
is where the University's English
Department splinters. Linguists,
like Queen and Curzan, typically
believe that the syntax of the com-
mon English speaker should be
accepted as formal English. But
a professor like Rubadeau, who
is known for grading grammar
severely, refuses to accept a singu-
lar plural.
"Students have to kind of know
what kind of professor they're
dealing with," Queen said.
Curzanand Rubadeau areknown

around the department for their
semi-jocular grammatical rivalry.
The two have met a few times over
a strategy Curzan teaches her stu-
dents to introduce singular "they"
to academic writing.
"What I tell my students, actu-
ally, is that they're welcome to use
singular "they," she said. "And they
should footnote the first incident of
it and I say they can actually cite
me and their professor can come
talk to me."
What the clash of the lecturers
shows is that even a department
that attests to teach English at the
highest level can't settle the matter
of one of the language's simplest
building blocks - generic pro-
nouns elude us still.

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Resolution dissolution - It's the first full week
of 2009, which means that many of you are prob-
ably still confident that you'll be able to keep your
New Year's resolution. You're still going to the gym
every day, you haven't smoked pot yet or you've so
far refrained from uttering one of those four-letter
words. But let's face it: you won't make it into Febru-
ary. Cut the idealism and throw a party to indulge
your sins. After all, it'll happen sooner or later.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Happiness can be contagious among friends
In a social network, happiness can spread to people as many as three
degreesremoved from each other, according to a study published last
month in the British Medical Journal by James Fowler, a political sci-
ence professor at the University of Californiain San Diego, and Dr. Nich-
olas Christakis of Harvard Medical School.
In the study, the researchers used data from the Framingham Heart
Study to chart a network of 4,739 spouses, siblings and friends. Then,
they examined the network members' self-reported happiness levels
from 1983 to 2003.
The study concluded that each happy friend increases a person's like-
lihood of being happy by 9 percent. Moreover, according to the study, a
person is 15 percent more likely to be happy ifa direct relation is happy,
10 percent more likely ifa friend of the friend is happy, and 6 percent
more likely ifa friend of a friend of a friend is happy.
The study said that sadness also spreads, but not as fast as happiness.
- BRIAN TENGEL


V V V V V

M- m m m

0

w

9

w w

w

w

w

WensaJnay7 200 - wh ihia a

4 The Michigan Daily -Wednesday, January 7, 2009

Consider these options:
A. Every student shaves his
face or puts on his make-up
before he visits home.
B. Every student shaves their
face or puts on their make-
up before they visit home.
C. Every student shaves hiS
or her face or puts on his or
her make-up before he or she
visits home..
D. Every student shaves hir
face or puts on hir make-up
before ze visits home.
Gender confusion, mismatched ante-
cedents, bulky construction and unrecog-
nizable words - these sentences and their
problems aren't likely to go unnoticed by a
professor's red pen.
There are easy solutions to rectify these
grammatical quandaries: make Sentence
B plural or for Sentence A, use both "his"
and "her" for the coordinating activities
and switch in "visiting" for "he visits."
But those edits evade the fact that the
English language lacks an unquestioned,
singular pronoun that can stand in for an
individual, regardless of gender.
It might seem like a petty issue - some-
thing spawned from political correctness
or academic stuffiness - but once "some-
body rips his panty hose" or a friend asks
whether it is "your sister or brother who
holds his breath the longest," even the
strictest English teacher would have to
admit there is a problem.
Attempts to introduce genderless alter-
natives to the English lexicon like "ze" and
"hir" stretch back to the 1800s. But as can
be seen everywhere from the presidential
election to Facebook News Feed and per-
haps even your last term paper, the gener-
ic-pronoun question still dogs the English
language.
THE PRESIDENCY AND'SHE'
Pronouns were front and center in the
last Democratic primary race, with Sen.
Hillary Clinton (D-NY) forcing "she" into
the presidential candidate discourse.
The linguistic novelty of the situation
tripped up even Clinton herself. At a rally
in Virginia last May, she told a crowd that
EPICENE
F A I LU R E

issues brought up by voters "are ones that
the next president can actually do some-
thing about if he actually cares about it."
The well-educated Clinton was likely
drawing from long-taught grammar rules
that promote "he" as the standard singu-
lar pronoun before any subconscious belief
that the president must be male. But in
any case, the senator didn't let the slip go
uncorrected. According to the Associated
Press, she quickly added: "More likely, if
she cares about it."
As the Democratic National Convention
approached, Clinton paid close attention
to her pronouns and antecedents, routine-
ly using "she" and "her" in any sentence
she began with "the next president of the
United States."
The pronoun choice expressed confi-
dence that might have swung a few voters,
but what it also did was prove that neither
"he" nor "she" can be detached from the
sexes they represent.
"'She' is marked as female, and 'he'
is marked as male," English Prof. Robin
Queen said. "It's very difficult for people
to actually get a gender neutral read."
The concept of gender-neutral "he"
again cropped up in Clinton's campaign,
as seem in a lawsuit filed last April to keep
Clinton off the Nevada ballot.
The plaintiff of the suit, the Reno
Gazette-Journal reported, argued that
because the U.S. Constitution uses "he"
and "him" to describe the president,
women are constitutionally prohibited
from holding the office.
Ironically, this Reno-based man's rea-
soning parallels that of feminist ideologues
of the 1960s women's movement who also
rejected the notion that "he" could be gen-
der neutral.
"The push back against generic 'he' was
definitely coming out of the feminist move-
ment," said English Prof. Anne Curzan,
co-author of the linguistic guide, "How
English Works."
When someone uses generic "she" or
another pronoun instead of "he," Curzan
said, it's a challenge to the idea that lan-
guage is neutral - a challenge that Eng-
lish speakers have found disturbing, or in
other cases, too petty a point to be taken
seriously.
" 'It's just language, it doesn't matter.'
'Leave it alone. 'It's a silly issue', " Curzan
said. "We want to believe that our lan-

guage is neutral."
But underlining the dismissal of the
generic "he" debate could be the fear that
grammatical rules and social equity might
not be so disconnected as contemporary
sensibilities would like.
"People have strong beliefs about what
is correct English and what is incorrect
English and when you challenge those,
people are surprised and they aren't sure
what they want to do with that challenge,"
Curzan said.

'SHE' IS MARKED
AS FEMALE,
AND 'HE'IS MARKED
AS MALE.IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT FOR PEOPLE
TO ACTUALLY GET
A GENDER
NEUTRAL READ.
ENGLISH PROF.
ROBIN QUEEN

"they" in sentences with singular subjects
without explanation.
Queen said that Murray's correction
came at a time when English grammar-
ians were trying to bolster legitimacy for
English as a formal written language by
making it grammatically more similar to
Latin.
She said part of this was ignoring the
tendency of English speakers - and in sev-
eral incidents, writers - to use "they" as a
generic singular pronoun.
"In spoken English, the plural has
always been around or been around for a
very long time," Queen said. "In respect to
the generic 'he,' people probably saw the
argument that it's not really a generic."
Singular "they" can be found in the
writings of classic authors like Jane Aus-
ten, Mark Twain and Shakespeare, who
used "they" at times to refer to yet-un-
known characters or in conjunction with
general singular nouns like "everybody"
and "someone."
In "Romeo and Juliet," Friar Laurence
warns Romeo of an approaching interlop-
er: "Arise; one knocks ... Hark, how they
knock!"
But generic "he" is no invention of the
1880s. The neuter masculine pronoun
dates back as far as Old English and the
advent of written English.
This discrepancy in historical prec-
edent and common usage is a reason why
the grammatical debate persists today and
why efforts to introduce truly gender-neu-
tral pronouns stretch back for centuries.
Startingasearlyas1850, accordingtothe
book "Grammar and Gender," the alterna-
tive pronoun "hiser" has been championed
repeatedly (albeit, with slightly varying
spellings) by different writers and gram-
marians looking for a single word to sup-
plant "his" and "her."
In a more recent movement, "hir" and
"ze" (pronounced "here" and "zee") are
sometimes used to describe transgender
people ~ a contemporary challenge that
confronts the idea of epicene English like
never before.
Then there is the colloquial, seemingly
organic rise of "yo" in Baltimore public
schools as a catchall pronoun for men and
women. Examples: "Yo is passing back
papers" for "She is passing back papers" or
"Peep yo" for "Peep him."
But as 19th century grammarian James

Rogers wrote about the experimental pro-
noun "thon," the nongender pronouns "ze"
and "hir" and any other that might arise
are likely doomed to fail "because every-
one has to be told how to pronounce it."
Rogers, who attempted to propagate
his own pronoun inventions "e," "es" and
"em," wrote that only the "shortest and
easiest" pronouns stand a chance. But
changing language isn't as simple as find-
ing the right word - it means convincing
people at large to use it in both speech and
writing, which is something even Murray
couldn't fully achieve with generic "he."
"Efforts to introduce an artificial pro-
noun have historically, soundly been
unsuccessful," Curzan said.
OBAMA'S GUIDE TO GRAMMAR
Today, the English language leaves
writers and public speakers in a pickle,
having to attach their singular nouns to
the potentially alienating "he," the cum-
bersome "he or she" or the conventionally
ungrammatical "they."
It's a problem that President-elect
Barack Obama also ran into during his
campaign. Known as the "articulate" can-
didate, or by some the "too-intellectual" or
"elitist" candidate, Obama's syntax choic-
es were up for more than just grammatical
scrutiny.
The conscientious politician must have
been aware of the criticism he risked if the
media's hyper-scrutiny ever fell upon his
singular pronoun usage: "he," sexist; "he
- or she," academic; "they," dumb.
To the close listener, a single sentence in
Obama's half-hour pre-election commer-
cial exposes his thoughts on the matter:
"Every parent in America wants the same
thing. A good education for their child."
The inaccurate pronoun wasn't notedby
any major news outlets - in fact, the gen-
eral watcher probably didn't notice it at all,
which is exactly why the Obama campaign
must have found it advantageous to script
the grammatical error into the prerecord-
ed commercial.
Obama's usage falls in line with recent
research showinga decline in use of gener-
ic "he" in favor of singular "they" - one
study of British English speakers found
that singular "they" was used 95 percent
of the time.
"To use 'he' or 'she' would sound overly
formal and scripted," Curzan said. "If it

was a scripted choice, it was to follow the
spoken standard."
To appeal to the Amerigan people,
Obama must have reasoned, it was best to
sound like them, no matter what the gram-
mar books say.
FACEBOOK KILLS'THEMSELF'
But whereas Obama goes in for populist
syntax, Facebook.com, another favorite of
the youthful masses, eradicated singular
"they" from its News Feed and Mini Feed
operations last summer.
It used to be that Facebook referred to
users who didn't list a sex on their profiles
as "them," which led to such News Feed
stories as "John Doe edited their About
Me" and "Jane Doe tagged a picture of
themself." '
But starting in June, Facebook forced
their unassigned users to choose a sex. A
prompt appeared when these users signed
on telling them that while they didn't have
to list a sex in their profile, they must select
to be referred to as either a male or female
in feed publications.
"'Themself' isn't even a real word,"
Facebook product manager Naomi Gleit
wrote in the company blog. "We've used
that in place of 'himself or herself.' We
made that grammatical choice in order
to respect people who haven't, until now,
selected their sex on their profile."
In the June 27 post, Gleit explained that
the change was made to avoid the awk-
wardness of "themself" and confusion
in translating feed stories into other lan-
guages used on Facebook.
"(W)e've gotten feedback from trans-
lators and users in other countries that
translations wind up being too confus-
ing when people have not specified a sex
on their profiles," Gleit said. "People who
haven't selected what sex they are fre-
quently get defaulted to the wrong sex
entirely in Mini-Feed stories."
It is suspicious how Facebook's new
stance on grammar coincided with adver-
tising spots along the side of the website
that target users according to age, sex
and interests. But despite other factors,
the networking site's decision hits on all
the major points of the singular-pronoun
conundrum.
Ruling out the clumsy "himself or her-
self," the website first turned to singular
See PRONOUNS, Page 6C

As for the case challenging Clinton's
candidacy, the Nevada court threw out the
lawsuit, asserting that the use of"he"in the
constitution is not specific to men alone.
But this reaffirmation of gender-neutral
"he" more likely stems from modern-day
ideas of women's rights and interpreta-
tion of the constitution than the belief that
"he" is epicene.
Since women couldn't vote, let alone
hold office, in 1787, it's not unbelievable
that the founding fathers did only have
men in mind for the presidential office.
And of course, there's the fact that generic
"he" was never officially recognized as a
grammatical rule in English before 1794.
WHAT WOULD SHAKESPEARE SAY?
Lindley Murray, anAmericangraimar-
ian, is thought to have first promoted "he"
as a generic singular pronoun in his widely
circulated "English Reader" in 1974.
Murray, who also disparaged dangling
prepositions and endorsed "it" as the prop-
er pronoun to describe a child, prescribed
generic "he" in his guide by switching out

ne, nis, nim;
hiser

le, lis,rlim
emulates French

hee, hirnt,
his'er, his'er's
from Chicago Tribune artice

s/he, him/er, his- shev, shem, sheir
or-her

ala, alan.alis
emulatesLatin"ar' for "other"and Hawaiian epicene
pronouns "oia" and "ia"

en

thir

hse

g O
originated colloquially i Blmoe,



GENDER-NEUTRAL PRONOUNS
THAT NEVER TOOK OFF
SOURCE: "The Epicene Pronouns: A Chronology of the Word that Failed" and the University of Pennsylvania's blog, The Language Log

ons
derivedfrom"one-

ha, hez,
hem

se, Sim, ss

ho, hom
hos, homself
derived from"homoL.atin for"human"

ghach
created frcio,55,, nallnuge Vulman in the
"5StrTek"TV so

hu
pronounced"huh"


