41C Illi.c1 i an i1M

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, February 4, 2009

michigandaily.com

FROM THE FIELD TO THE DANCE FLOOR

A NEW-AGE UNIVERSITY
profs
turn to
blogging

CLF REEDER/Daily
For a sldeshow of more Mock Rock moments, The men's track and field team performs at the tOth annual Mock Rock fundraiser in Hill Auditorium yesterday.
go to michigandaily.com. The event featured performances from a number of athletic teams and aimed to raise over $80,000 for C.S.
Mott Children's Hospital and 'Telling It, an RC-sponsored program that uses art to help high-risk young people.
FUNDING HIGHER EDUCATION
Gov.:Tuitionfrez

New medium offers
tool for both classes
and recognition
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily Staff Reporter
The booming blogosphere is
a world dominated by celebrity
gossip, confessionals and radical
opinions. But blogs are increas-
ingly hosting a new breed of user:
university professors.
In recent years, academics
across the country have started
using blogs to relay information
and ideas. Many are now incor-
porating the medium into their
classes, asking students to take to
their keyboards and post thoughts
or resources on course material.
"It's been extraordinarily suc-
cessful," said Brian Porter-Szucs,
an associate history profes-
sor, who has students blog their
responses to class readings. He
has them search for other rele-
vant material on the Interrletand
post it on the class blog.
Porter-Szucs said he decided
to include blogging in his classes
after reading one of his 15-year-
old daughter's homework assign-
ments. Porter-Szucs was alarmed
to see his daughter's writing suf-
fer as she tried to mimic what she
perceived as an academic style.
He suspected his own students
might be writing poorly for the
same reason and decided to use a

class blog to test the theory.
"My suspicions were con-
firmed," he said. "Part of the
problem wasn't necessarily that
the students didn't know how to
write, it's that they hadn't been
taught how to write effectively in
a variety of settings. If I could just
break through the sense of artifi-
ciality that came with the term
paper, I could actually get good
writing."
Communications Studies Prof.
Fara Warner, who uses blogging
in her classes, said the medium
allows students to write quickly
with relaxed prose. The class
blog also serves as a single space
in which to archive links or ideas
and facilitate class communica-
tion. Warner's personal blog is
called "The Power of the Purse,"
though she doesn't update it con-
sistently because of the amount of
time it takes to write posts.
"Blogging, for me, is a piece of
journalism," said Warner. "That,
for me, makes it a bigger task to
blog than to just throw my opin-
ion out there. I still struggle with
the immediacy of blogging and
wantingto be ethical as a journal-
ist and do right by sources and do
right by myself as well."
The time commitment means
professors need to prioritize
when it comes to blogging. Those
who write personal blogs do so
outside of their teaching require-
ments, but as blogs become more
popular, the question of their role
See BLOGGING, Page 7A

University to wait
for details of plan
before making a
decision
ByKYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
During her annual State of the
State address last night, Gov. Jen-
nifer Granholm called on Michi-
gan's public universities not to raise
tuition rates next year.

Although details of Granholm's
proposal were not officially
announced, aides from her office
said she is expected to reward
schools that freeze tuition rates
with increased state aid and federal
funding from the stimulus pack-
age currently before the U.S. Sen-
ate. Granholm is also expected to
penalize schools that raise tuition
with decreased state funding.
In her speech, Granholm empha-
sized that increasing tuition could
result in fewer students enrolling
in college.
"As we accelerate our push to

get more kids to college, we cannot
have them priced out of the market
by tuition increases," she said. "I
am asking Michigan's universities
and community colleges to freeze
tuition for the next academic year.
No tuition hikes during this year of
economic crisis."
University Spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham issued a statement
following Granholm's comments
on a possible tuition freeze.
"We look forward to learn-
ing more details when we see the
governor's budget proposal," she
wrote.

Cunningham's statement also
said the University has made, and
will continue to make, financial aid
a major priority.
"We agree with the governor
that students and their families'
ability to access higher education is
a priority," she wrote. "This is why
we have so aggressively moved to
raise funds for financial aid during
our recent capital campaign and
why we use other strategies like
MPACT grants to help keep col-
lege affordable for students who
coptinue to demand a world-class
See TUITION FREEZE, Page 7A

SPECTRUM CENTER
Program helps students
considering coming out

SGu
and
lau
The
versity
offerin
studen
Lau
ance, S

idance, Support gram, known as GPS - is designed
to provide students with infor-
[Perspective was mation, guidance and assistance
regarding issues dealing with sex-
inched last week ual identity.
The GPS program seeksto differ-
By JASMINE ZHU entiate itself from other Spectrum
Daily StaffReporter Center programs through schedule
flexibility and the option to meet
Spectrum Center, the Uni- away from the Spectrum Center to
's LGBT affairs office, is provide anonymity. Inthe program,
ig a new program to assist students who've already come out
its who are coming out. work with students who are plan-
nched last week, the Guid- ning to discuss their sexual orien-
upport and Perspective Pro- tations with family and friends.

The program's flexibility allows
students and their mentors to meet
any time during the school year,
unlike other support programs that
may meet on a weekly basis.
GPS also allows for increased
confidentiality. Kevin Correa, the.
Spectrum Center's administrative
and programmingcoordinator, said
many students who are coming out
want more discretion, which GPS
provides through an unintimidat-
ing environment.
"Students who are closeted
See SPECTRUM CENTER, Page 7A

Face-Off Blood Challenge pits
students against in-state rivals
Organizers hope to
exceed goal of 1,700
pints of blood
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
This Valentine's Day season,
Alpha Phi Omega, a co-ed service
fraternity, is helping students give
a gift that's truly from the heart.
APO is holding a "Face-Off
Blood Challenge" between theU\
University and Michigan State
University from Jan. 19 to Feb.
27 as one of several blood battles k
the organization holds each year.
The challenge pits the two schools
againsteachothertoseewhichone
can donate more pints of blood.
Although University organiza-
tions have regularly held blood
battles with MSU in the past,
the tradition fizzled out and was
replaced with the Big Ten Blood
Challenge. But when coordinat-
ing between all of the Big Ten
schools became confusing, APO
decided to reinstate the Michi-
gan-MSU battle. JED MOCH/Daily
LSA sophomore Mary Rock, LSA senior Paula Papay donates blood yesterday in the Michigan Union at the
one of APO's Blood Battle chairs 2009 Face-Off Blood Challenge. The drive benefits the American Red Cross.
who organized the event, said The other Blood Battle chairs battle. The Red Cross site repre-
she hoped the rivalry would help include LSA senior Brian Talpos, sentatives from the areas around
encourage students to contribute. and LSA juniors Laura Yocky and each school have been maintain-
"We can take advantage of the LSA junior Katy Wallander. ing the "score" between the two
competitive atmosphere to do APO coordinated with MSU's universities.
something really positive," Rock chapter of the AmericanRed Cross APO members said they hope
said. club in order to carry out the blood See BLOOD CHALLENGE, Page 7A

STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES
Device turns words into sign

Student's technology
shows sign language
on cell phone
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
For most students, a laptop or a
college-ruled notebook is enough
to get through most lecture class-
es at the University. For hearing
impaired students, the process is
much more challenging. They need

both a translator to transcribe the
lecture and then extra time to read
through the notes once class is
over.
Using a cell phone, two Universi-
ty students have a plan to complete-
ly change the way hearinginpaired
students attend class.
Jason Gilbert and Judy Yu,
graduate students in the College
of Engineering's Department of
Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space
Sciences, have developed a sys-
tem that translates sign language
into speech using cell phone

technology. They say that their
invention, Mobile Sign Language
Systems (MSigns), will revolution-
ize comrnmunication for the hearing
impaired.
"The idea behind it was to create
some software that would take spo-
ken English on any handheld device
like a smart phone and translate it
into a video of the sign language
like an interpreter you can carry in
your hand," Gilbert said. "This will
be really useful for deaf and hard-
of-hearing people who needed to
See TECHNOLOGY, Page 7A


WEATHER HI:24
TOMORROW 10:15

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news(&michieandailvrcom and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
MSU player involved in scuffle will return to team.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX
Vol CXIX, No. 87
(2000 The Michigae Dai,
icivvniiycvr

NEW S..........
OPINION.....
ARTS.............

. ...2A CLASSIFIEDS.............
....4A SPORTS...............
....5A THE STATEMENT....

.6A
....8A
.......1B


b A




2A - Wednesday, February 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MON0AY~ TUESDAY; ' ' THURSDAY:

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:i THURSDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters -xplained Before You Were Here
Y SOME RESiNE HALLS AREN'T d rLEmS
Findingf a signal In the dorms

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Finding a comfortable place to
browse Facebook in a dorm room
can be tough. Without wireless
Internet available in most resi-
dence halls, using the Internet
means struggling to stay plugged
in.
This isn't a concern in the
recently renovated Mosher-Jordan
Residence Hall, which is complete-
ly wireless. And once Stockwell
Hall and North Quad open they
will also be equipped with wire-
less - but what about the rest of
the dorms?
Peter Logan, University Housing
spokesman, said one of the major
challenges for installing wireless
in dorms is funding.
Logan said that University
Housing is a self-sustaining unit
with basic revenue that comes from
student room and board rates. As a

result, Housing has to prioritize
plumbing and electrical improve-
ments and heating and roofing
repairs over installing wireless.
"University Housing recog-
nizes wireless is important but it's
expensive," Logan said.
He added that it can cost sev-
eral thousands of dollars to install
wireless access points throughout
an entire residence hall, especially
in dorms like West Quad and East
Quad with complicated hallways.
"The larger and more complex
the building, the more it costs to
run wiring for the wireless access
points," Logan said. "In some halls,
existing conduit may work, in oth-
ers there have to be new wiring
channels constructed."
But the renovations of Mosher-
Jordan and Stockwell required
entire sections of walls to be taken

down, making it easy to installwire-
less as part of the reconstruction.
Though it's expensive, Logan
said Housing officials are looking
to add wireless to certain locations
in the residence halls. To help pri-
oritize prime wireless spots, Hous-
ing is working with an advisory
group within the Residence Halls
Association. This advisory group
suggested that Housing officials
should focus first on installing
wireless on North Campus.'
As of right now, one wing of Burs-
ley Hall is equipped with wireless,
and by the end of the academic year,
a second wing will be equipped,
which will constitute half of the resi-
dence hall.
Housingofficials and RHA are
also workingon installing wireless
in chief study areas in the dorms.
VANESSA NUNEZ

Businessschool sophomore Peter Gao uses the wireless Internet
in the Mosher-Jordan Residence Hall.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-ease
graea@miehigandailyeom bugti@michigandaily.eom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tipsnews@miciandaily.com
torrections corrections@sicindaity.o
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0s63
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaiy.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-05s4
Classified Sales classiied@michigandaily.cor
OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
734-61s-013s
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZ ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR NEWS EDTORS: Jllian Berman, Trevor Cl ero, Julie 0owe, Lindy Stevens
aASS S umT ES aEIORS:Matt Arn,,,BenOajain 5.heta, ,CtinSchneider,
Jenna Skoller, Kyle Swanson
RobertSoave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Emad Ansari,Emma Jeszke, MatthewShutler
Andy Reid ManagingsportsEditor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR 5PORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
David Watnick Managing Arts Editor watnick@michigandaiy.cm
SENIOoARTSEDITOS: amie c,u ran,,don ea,,di, WhitneyPo,
ASS NRT SEDTRS JoshuaaraoArewLapiDaveRapBenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
tif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins, Chris Dzombak,RobMigrin,SamWoson
AngelaChih and dsies@michiandaiy.eom
Maureen Stych ManagingDesigntdiory
SENIOR ESIGN EDITORS:HRilardtrs
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopyChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboer oisplay Advertising SalesManager
DISPLAYADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS Daniel
Nem,,,C hriiehillips
Ryan Busitski CtassifiedsalesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager:Alison Thomas
MarissaGerber Online salesManager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichiganoaly (ISsNO745-967)ispublished Monday throughFridayduringthefall andwi(ter
temms by student tthe University at Michigan. Onmcpyinaailablefetof heto arntrs n
Additoal co ienmybenpicked up atthe DOihin ottisefor$2.Scptonsorstoall ten, strigin
September,viaU.s.mal are$110Winteriterm anuarythrough April)s$115yearilng(September
through Aprl) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
sbsc tinorall temo$35.Subscipiomustabeprepaid.Thecian Daily annbest
The ssaxted Prss nd TheAscaitdClleite Pres.

CRIME NOTES
Couch listed on University staff
Craigslist almost slips, falls on ice

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

stolen
WHERE: Northwood Apart-
ments III
WHEN: Monday at about 8:10
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
a subject tried to swindle
$2,600 and a couch that was
listed on Craigslist. The case is
under investigation.
Obscenity at
Engineering
building
WHERE: Electrical Engineer-
ing
WHEN: Monday at about 11:40
a.m.
WHAT: A subject contacted
staff at EECS and made obscene
sexual gestures to two women
at the office. The case is under
investigation.

WHERE: Angell Hall
WHEN: Mondayat about 10:50
a.m. . .
WHAT: A University staff
member slipped and fell on ice
near Angell Hall. She suffered
injuries, but declined assistance
from a Huron Valley Ambu-
lance.
Cell phone
swiped from
hospital
WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Monday at about 3:05
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
an unknown subject stole her
cell phone from the hospital.
The cell phone is valued at $70
and was left unattended.

Face-off Blood
Challenge
WHAT: A blood drive to
benefit the American Red
Cross. University students
will compete against Michi-
gan State University to collect
the most blood donations.
WHO: Blood Drives United,
Alpha Phi Omega
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 6 p.m
WHERE: Vandenberg
Room, Michigan League
Film screening
of the 'Lioness'
WHAT: A screening of the
documentary "Lioness," a film
about female army support
soldiers who were the first
women in U.S. military his-
tory to be sent into combat.
WHO: Student Veterans
Assistance Program
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Forum Hall, Palm-
er Commons

Housing Fair
WHAT: Housing Fair 2009
will be providing students the
opportunity to learn about
the housing options both on
and off campus.
WHO: Off-Campus Housing
Program- Housing Informa-
tion Office
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 4:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Resume writing
workshop
WHAT: Resume writing
workshop to review the skills
and tools necessary to write
an effective resume.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Room 3003, Stu-
dent Activities Building
CORRECTIONS
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

A case that was started in
1926 was recently reopened
due to suspicions of murder,
the BBC reported. The case is
about a 16-year-old girl who
went missing while cycling to a
railway station. Family wants to
find the body to give hera prop-
er burial.
Starting this May, stu-
dents will be able to
study "abroad" at Wol-
pole Island, home of the Bke-
jwanong First Nation. The
island is two-hour drive from
Ann Arbor.
>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT, 7B
New York City mayor
Michael Bloomberg
was bitten by a Staten
Island groundhog yesterday,
Bloomberg.com reported.
Charles C. Hogg bit the mayor
after he teased the animal with
corn on the cog.


Bloomberg
MOVE THE MARKETS.
Buid the best.
Join the company at the forefront of finance and technology.
Bloomberg provides information to business leaders around the world. Our employees have a passion
for excellence, no matter what their experience is. We foster that passion and encourage growth and
development in every way possible.
At Bloomberg our developers make an immediate impact on our product every day. The time-to-market is
short; you will work on the full development life cycle of a portion of our product, and the results will be used
by hundreds of top-level financial professionals around the globe. Learn from talented people and be part of
a team that is at the front of the financial services industry. Join Bloomberg R&D.
We are hiring intelligent, enthusiastic individuals with technical backgrounds (computer science, math,
physics, engineering), basic programming experience and an interest in developing financial applications.
To learn more about careers with Bloomberg R&D, come to our info session
on February 4th in 1200 EECS from 5-6pm, or visit us at the Winter Engineering
Career Fair at North Campus February 5th from 10am-3pm.

4

4

4

4

eers.bloomberg.com

4

4

i
t.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 = 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, February 4, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
UNITED NATIONS
Darfur pullout
rejected by key U.N.
council members
Key U.N. Security Council mem-
bers rejected Sudanese pressure to
withdraw thousands of peacekeep-
ers from Darfur yesterday, even as
the U.S. reported a wave of govern-
ment air strikes near a rebel-held
town.
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice
said the United States is "gravely
concerned by reports of intense
aerial bombardment" - at least 28
bombing raids Tuesday morning
alone - by Sudanese forces on the
outskirts of the town in southern
Darfur.
Sudan's government on Sun-
day asked the U.N.-African Union
peacekeepers, on a mission known
as UNAMID, to leave the town
before bombing began, but U.N.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
has said they won't go.
While Sudan has regularly chal-
lenged the U.N.'s fragile presence
in the country, the request was the
first of its kind from Sudan, U.N.
officials said. U.N. and Sudanese
officials meet in Khartoum to dis-
cuss the request, a spokeswoman
for the U.N. mission has said.
WASHINGTON
Obama plans to
limit executive pay
The Obama administration plans
to issue new limits on executive pay
today for companies that receive
help from the government's finan-
cial sector bailout program.
"One of the things that that we're
going to do tomorrow is talk about
the need to control executive com-
pensation for companies that are
taking money from the federal gov-
ernment," President Barack Obama
said in an interview Tuesday with
"NBC Nightly News.
"If the taxpayers are helping you,
then you've got certain responsibili-
ties to not be livinghigh on the hog,"
the president added.
The administration will make
its announcement as congressio-
nal lawmakers work on their own
proposals to restrict compensa-
tion for companies that get money
from the $700 billion government
rescue fund. One legislative plan
would set the highest salary at a
government-assisted institutions
at $400,000.
BOSTON
Mass. couple who
led gay marriage
fight to divorce
A lesbian couple who led the
fight for gay marriage in Massachu-
setts have filed for divorce.
Julie and Hillary Goodridge
were among seven gay couples who
filed a lawsuit that led to a court rul-
ing making Massachusetts the first
state to legalize same-sex marriag-
es in 2004. The couple became the
public face of the debate in the state

and married the first day same-sex
marriages became legal.
The divorce case was filed last
week in Suffolk Probate and Fam-
ily Court and was not unexpected.
The couple announced they were
separating in 2006.
Messages left for the Goodridges
were not immediately returned
Tuesday.
GRAND RAPIDS
Dow Chemical
posts $1.5B loss
in fourth quarter
Dow Chemical Co. reported a
$1.55 billion fourth-quarter loss
yesterday as a deteriorating global
economy led to a 23 percent drop in
sales and huge job cuts.
The loss was larger than expect-
ed and revenue came in below Wall
Street expectations.
"We are planning for a global
recession throughout 2009 and will
continue to take actions on manag-
ing our cash and controlling our
costs,"said Andrew N. Liveris, Dow's
chairman and chief executive.
Dow slashed operating rates
h to 64 percent in the fourth quar-
ter with demand for its products
evaporating. Diminished produc-
tion led to operating rates not seen
in more than 25 years, according to
the company.
The nation's largest chemical
maker said its loss amounted to
$L68 per share in the three months
ended Dec. 31. It had earned $472
million, or 49 cents per share, dur-
ing the last quarter of 2007.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Daschle leaves, health reform uncertain

South Dakota Sen.
will not be Obama's
HHS secretary
WASHINGTON (AP) - Tom
Daschle's decision to withdraw his
nomination as health and human
services secretary clouds hopes
that President Barack Obama
will make significant progress on
health reform in his first 100 days
in the White House.
But the problems of unafford-
able medical bills and millions of
uninsured aren't going away, and
a deepening recession has more
Americans feeling worried about
their jobs and insecure about their
health benefits.
So even if Obama's hand-picked
architect of health reform sud-
denly leaves the political scene,
the president himself still has an
opportunity to refocus the nation's
attention on its health care woes

and on his own program for mak-
ingthings better.
"It's a real blow to the effort
because Tom really was knowl-
edgeable," Sen. Christopher Dodd,
D-Conn., who himself is deeply
involved in health care issues, said
Tuesday. "This is an issue I had
hoped would be a priority, and that
we could deal with it very quickly."
He added: "It hurts. It slows
things down. So this has been a
setback."
At the White House, spokesman
Robert Gibbs put on a brave front.
"I don't think the effort slows
down for health care reform, and
I think Sen. Daschle and others
would admit that the effort is far
bigger than any one individual."
"We'll miss Sen. Daschle's lead-
ership," said White House senior
adviser David Axelrod, "But this
issue has great power of its own."
Obama has a chance to recover
some lost momentumright away.As
early as Wednesday, he's expected

to sign legislation to expand health
coverage for uninsured children
of low-income working parents, a
major priority for Democrats. The
president's words at the signing
ceremony will be closely followed.
The White House has been plan-
ning a health care summit early in
the spring to kick off the health
reform campaign, but that may
now be delayed.
Obama must quickly select a
new HHS nominee who can be
confirmed smoothly. The list of
possible picks includes Kansas Gov.
Kathleen Sebelius and others with
state and national leadership cre-
dentials, including Howard Dean,
the former Democratic presiden-
tial candidate and party chairman,
Vermont governor and medical
doctor, Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Ren-
dell and Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland.
Not only could prospects for
health reform dim further if the
choice is delayed, but it means that
problems at HHS agencies such as

the Food and Drug Administration
could continue to fester. Agency
heads are not usually named until
a cabinet secretary is in place.
The loss of Daschle hurts Obama
in two ways. Daschle knows both
the details of health care policy
and the ways of the Senate. If a
bipartisan deal is to be struck on
health care, the best chance is in
the Senate, which is not as polar-
ized as the House.
"He brought special traits to the
job that were tremendous advan-
tages," said Judy Feder, a health
care policy expert who was a top
HHS official in the Clinton admin-
istration. "But the commitment of
the president is the key here. You
can't underestimate that."
Most health care reform advo-
cates say conditions are still favor-
able to get a bill passed. Interest
groups from insurers to small busi-
nesses, to the seniors lobby AARP
say the time has come. Key com-
mittee chairmen in the Senate and

the House remain committed.
SenateFinanceCommitteeChair-
man Max Baucus, D-Mont., whose
panel will write much of the bill, said
he's not slowing down. "It will take a
couple, three weeks at best, not alot
longer, to get health care reform leg-
islation up and ready," Baucus said.
"So this has no effects on our efforts
in the Congress."
But false starts do take their toll
in Washington. You don't get back
lost time. Other crises flare, compet-
ing for time and attention. Former
President Bill Clinton's delay in get-
ting a health care bill written and
delivered to Congress is widely seen
as a major factor in the subsequent
collapse of the legislation. And the
Obama administration has no short-
age of serious problems to confront.
Between the loss of Daschle and
continuing economic problems, "I
don't see how we get to health care
reform until the fall," said Robert
Laszewski, a policy analyst and con-
sultant for health care companies.

Militants bomb
U. S. supply route
in Afghanistan,

PAUL SANCYA/AP
Ex-Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, center at rear, leaves the Wayne County Andrew C. Baird Detention Facility in Detroit
yesterday after serving 99 days in jail. Kilpatrick will serve five years of probation after a plea to two criminal charges.
After 99 das, ex-Detroit
mayorreleasedfrom jai

Kilpatrick to pay
$1M in restitution
to the city
DETROIT (AP) - Kwame Kil-
patrick regained his freedom
early yesterday morning, emerg-
ing from jail after a 99-day sen-
tence and stepping back onto the
cold, dark streets of the city he
once ruled as mayor.
The 38-year-old Kilpatrick,
about 25 pounds lighter than
when he entered jail at the end
of October, left the downtown
Detroit facility wearing a dark
suit just after 12:30 a.m.
Before leaving the building, Kil-
patrick stood for several minutes
in the jail lobby, consulting with
lawyers and friends on the other
side of the glass front doors.
As he stepped onto the side-
walk, Kilpatrick stood for a long
moment amid bright television
camera lights, a crush of await-
ing reporters and swirling snow-
flakes, smiling occasionally to

those in the crowd who called his
name and shouted: "We love you,
Kwame. Detroit loves you, baby!"
Flanked by a number of men,
several dressed in fedoras and
long coats, Kilpatrick then was
rushed to a waiting blue Chev-
rolet Suburban. The Democrat
waved from behind tinted win-
dows as he was whisked away as
part of a multi-vehicle caravan.
Kilpatrick made no statements
to the media during his release,
upon the orders of new defense
attorney Willie E. Gary.
"He's not bitter. He said he
learned a lot," Gary said a short
time later during an impromptu
sidewalk news conference. "He
said this has been an experience
he'll never forget, and he thinks
because of it he'll be a better
person. Right now, he's just con-
cerned about getting home to his
mom, his sister, and of course his
other family.
"The former mayor ... he
wishes the city well, all the peo-
ple of Detroit well and that there
are no hard feelings one way or

the other."
It's been more than a year since
a text-messaging sex scandal first
reported by the Detroit Free Press
started the long process that
ended in Kilpatrick's disgraceful
arrest, plea, jailing and release.
Now, the man who quickly rose
from a state representative to
mayor of a city of 900,000 people
simply is looking for work.
Kilpatrick was expected to
meetwith stateprobationofficials
before heading to a job interview
Wednesday with an unnamed
company at an undisclosed loca-
tion in Texas. His wife, Carlita,
and three young sons, already
have left Michigan.
A judge has ordered that he
return by Feb. 9.
"The job prospect is very, very,
very favorable," Gary told report-
ers. "We want to make sure he can
get, and land, the job. That's his
first thing. He wants a job. That's
what he is concerned about now.
He wants to get with his family,
get with his kids so he can start
his life again."

Bridge in Khyber
Pass collapsed from
explosion
KABUL (AP) - U.S. troops in
Afghanistan saw their supply lines
squeezed from the north and east
Tuesday after militants blew up
a bridge in Pakistan and Kyrgyz-
stan's government said it would end
American use of a key air base fol-
lowing Russia's announcement of
new aid.
Securingefficient and safe supply
routes into Afghanistan has become
a top priority for U.S. officials as the
Pentagon prepares to send in up to
30,000 more American soldiers
this year. Some 75 percent of U.S.
supplies travel through Pakistan,
where militants have stepped up
attacks on truck convoys destined
for U.S. bases.
Attackers yesterday blew up a
bridge in northwestern Pakistan in
a fresh salvo in an escalating cam-
paign seeking to cripple Washing-
ton's war effort in Afghanistan.
The red metal bridge in the Khy-
ber Pass partially twisted and col-
lapsed on one end, with chunks of
concrete scattered about. A trailer
truck caught on the span - about 15
miles northwest of Peshawar - fell
on its side and spilled dozens of bags.
While U.S. officialshavelongsaid
they are seeking fresh supplyroutes,
they have never hinted publicly at
any concern about running out of
food or fuel. American forces stock-
pile enough supplies to last 60-90
days in the event that their supply
chain is severed, U.S. officials say.
The top U.S. military spokes-
man in Afghanistan shrugged off
any supply worries after Tues-
day's events, saying that traffic
was already flowing again in Paki-
stan after the attack. "They made a
bypass," said Col. Greg Julian.
He also dismissed Kyrgyzstan's
threat to close access to the Manas
air base as nothing but "political

positioning." Gen. David Petraeus,
who oversees the wars in Afghani-
stan and Iraq, met with officials in
Kyrgyzstan last month and "came
away with the sense that every-
thing was fine," Julian said.
"We have a standing contract,
and they're making millions off our
presence there. There are no plans to
shut down access to it anytime soon,"
Julian told The Associated Press.
Pentagon spokesman Geoff Mor-
rell said: "I have seen nothing to
suggest, other than press reports,
that the Russians are attempting to
undermine our use of that facility."
Pentagon planners and logistics
officers have a variety of alterna-
tive supply routes into Afghanistan,
although defense officials acknowl-
edged that Manas is singularly
important.
"There are other ways to resupply
via air or land if need be, but Manas
is well situated, it's well-appointed,
it's well run and it well serves our
troops in Afghanistan," Morrell
told The Associated Press. "We
think it's in everybody's interest to
continue our operations there."
Petraeus, chief of the U.S. mili-
tary's Central Command, said
last month that agreements had
been reached to use supply routes
through Central Asia, but details of
the deals have not been announced.
Kyrgyzstan President Kurman-
bek Bakiyev's statement that U.S.
forces would have to stop using
Manas air base came after Russia
said it was providing the poor Cen-
tral Asian nation with billions of
dollars in aid.
The Kyrgyz government "has
made the decision on ending the
term for the American base on the
territory of Kyrgyzstan and this
decision will be announced tomor-
row or the day after," Bakiyev said
in televised comments.
The United States set up the
Manas base and one in neighboring
Uzbekistan to back operations in
Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 ter-
ror attacks.

Chrysler sales plunge 55

Killefer withdraws

percent; GM, Toyota down bid for Obama post,

Automakers hurt by
unemployment and
tough credit market
DETROIT (AP) - Chrysler's
U.S. vehicle sales plunged 55 per-
cent in January, while General
Motors' tumbled 49 percent and
Ford's dropped 40 percent, start-
ing 2009 at an abysmal pace for the
whole auto industry as lower sales
to fleet buyers like rental car com-
panies weighed down the results.
Toyota's sales dove 32 percent
for the month, Nissan's dropped
30 percent and Honda's fell 28
percent, putting the overall indus-
try on track for its fourth straight
month in which U.S. sales plunged
30 percent or more.
But Subaru bucked the trend
of declines for a second month in
a row, posting an 8 percent sales
increase, and Hyundai said its
sales jumped 14 percent.
Hyundai credited its increase
to its offer to cover a new vehicle's
depreciation if customers return a
car within 12 monthsbecause they
are unable to make the payments.
"This program gets to the root
cause of today's economic con-

cerns - fear of job loss," Hyundai
regional general manager Peter
DiPersia said in a statement.
Chrysler's sales chief, Steven
Landry, told reporters yesterday
at a meeting with dealers that
U.S. industry sales could drop as
much as 35 percent in January.
The annualized sales rate for the
month could drop below 10 mil-
lion for the first time in more than
26 years, he said.
According to Ward's AutoIn-
foBank, the last month in which
the seasonally adjusted annual
sales rate dropped below 10 mil-
lion was August 1982, when it
hit 9.9 million as the nation was
mired in a recession.
Domestic and foreign auto-
makers have been struggling as
unemployment rises, consumer
confidence weakens and many
people have a tougher time get-
ting loans. General Motors Corp.
and Chrysler LLC have received
$13.4 billion in federal loans to
stay afloat, and they hope to get
more after they submit a viabil-
ity plan to the government by
Feb. 17. Ford Motor Co. has said
it does not plan to use govern-
ment aid.
GM said earlier this month it is

planning its turnaround under the
assumption the entireindustry will
sell 10.5 million new vehicles in the
U.S. this year. Chrysler has said it's
planning on 11.1 million units, and
Ford last week reduced its forecast
to a range between 11.5 million and
12.5 million. But few people were
expecting the automakers to start
2009 at such a pace.
January is typically a slow sales
month, and many automakers and
analysts are expecting the mar-
ket to rebound in the second half
of the year as the economy and
access to credit improves.
Detroit-based GM sold 128,198
light vehicles in January, while
Ford's sales totaled 93,060 and
Chrysler sold 62,157. Toyota Motor
Corp. sold 117,287 cars and trucks.
The automakers have rolled
out hefty incentive offers to boost
sales. Edmunds.com estimated
the average automaker incen-
tive at $2,714 per vehicle sold in
January, down 5.2 percent from
December but up 12.5 percent'
from January 2008.
Jesse Toprak, the auto Web site's
executive director of industry anal-
ysis, attributed the year-over-year
increase to a greater number of lin-
gering2008 model year vehicles.

citing unpaid taxes

Chief performance
officer nominee
owed $946.69 to IRS
WASHINGTON (AP) - Nancy
Killefer withdrew her candidacy to
be the first chief performance offi-
cer for the federal government on
yesterday, saying she didn't want
her bungling of payroll taxes on her
household help to become a distrac-
tion for the Obama administration.
Killefer was the second major
nominee to withdraw.Within hours,
former Sen. Tom Daschle also with-
drew his nomination to be secretary
of health and human services.
In a brief letter to President
BarackObama,Killefer,theSS-year-
old executive with consulting giant
McKinsey & Co., wrote that she had
"cometo realize inthe current envi-
ronment that my personal tax issue
of D.C. unemployment tax could
be used to create exactly the kind
of distraction and delay" that must
be avoided in responding to urgent
economic problems.
She offered no further details of

her tax difficulties.
In announcing his choice of Sen.
Judd Gregg to be commerce sec-
retary, Obama took no questions
Tuesday and left the White House
lectern ignoring a shouted question
about why so many of his nominees
have tax problems.
But White House press secretary
Robert Gibbs later insisted Killefer
and Daschle decided on their own to
withdraw. "I think they both recog-
nized that you can't set an example
of responsibility but accept a differ-
ent standard in who serves," Gibbs
told a White House briefing.
When Hillefer's selection was
announced by Obama on Jan. 7,
The Associated Press disclosed
that in 2005 the District of Colum-
bia government had filed a $946.69
tax lien on her home for failure
to pay unemployment compensa-
tion tax on household help. Since
then, administration officials have
refused to answer questions about
the tax error, which she resolved
five months after the lien was filed.
It wasn't clear whether theadmin-
istration was aware of Killefer's tax
errorsbefore Obama named her.

h A

A A


4A - Wednesday, February 4, 2009

4A Weea FbaThe Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Calling for tough cuts
Granholm's efforts to balance state budget are critical
L ast night, Gov. Jennifer Granholm delivered her annual
State of the State address from the floor of the Michigan
House of Representatives. With the federal stimulus pack-
age - which could fund many state programs - facing an uncer-
tain future, Granholm focused on several major suggestions to
reduce the state budget. She also implored state universities to
freeze tuition for the upcoming school year. These efforts to pre-
vent an increase in college tuition costs are necessary to provide
for the state's economic revival, which hinges upon establishing
an educated workforce. With this goal in mind, Granholm's bud-
get cuts should be adopted, and the state must work with univer-
sities to keep the price of a Michigan education low.

ROSE JAFFE

E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

Y1- o c'Mog 15 over
ii Lp
________

A stimulating solution

During her address, Granholm suggested
massive budget changes to counter the defi-
cit predicted for the upcoming fiscal year.
When the new fiscal year starts on Oct. 1,
Michigan's budget is anticipated to be short
a staggering $1.6 billion. In response, Gra-
nholm suggested cutsto state agencies across
the board, which would mean eliminating 10
of 16 state departments and funding for the
state fair. She also requested that the State
Officers Compensation Commission, which
sets salaries for elected officials, cut salaries
by 10 percent.
Though these cuts will probably mean job
losses for some state employees, they are
nonetheless necessary so that the state can
control its budget. Now, more than ever, the
state needs to decide which expenditures are
vital to the well-being of the state - and cut-
ting education funding just isn't acceptable.
The state needs higher education to be acces-
sible and affordable to diversify Michigan's
economy with a workforce well educated in
a variety of academic fields.
Cuttingstate departments is vastly prefer-
able to the 7.1 percent across-the-board cut to
public university funding that was suggested
last month. These cuts, in conjunction with
other plans to save money in the state's cor-
rections system, will hopefully prevent the

state from cutting education funding.
And if the state is able to avoid cutting
education funding, these universities will
be more prepared to heed Granholm's call to
freeze tuition rates. Considering that tuition
here at the University has increased 34.6
percent in the last four years alone, an end to
the constantly increasing rate would bewel-
come to college students and their families.
But this becomes an impossible goal to. live
up to if the state ends up slashing education
funding. Granholm said that if colleges can
freeze tuition rates, the state will reward
them with funding. The University should
feel compelled to take her up on this offer.
In her discussion of the state's finances,
Granholm also mentioned the pending fed-
eral stimulus package. She noted that, while
there are projects that could benefit from
the federal aid, the stimulus package isn't a
cure-all for Michigan's problems.'And she's
right - the federal stimulus package mak-
ing its way through Congress is an uncertain
prospect. And, no matter how much money
Michigan gets, it won't solve our overarching
budget problems in the longterm.
If our options are between cutting funding
to higher education and scaling back on non-
essential spending, we would much rather
sacrifice the state fair.

The word "stimulus" always
makes me giggle. It just sounds
dirty to me. But despite the
fact that I never left
puberty, the stimu-
lus everyone is talk-
ing about today is
hardly a dirty joke.
In fact, it's probably
the nation's great-
est hope for salvag-
ing the economy.
Last Wednesday, M
the House of Rep- ATTHEW
resentatives passed GREEN
President Obama's
economic stimulus
package. Supporters and critics alike
have deemed it one of the largest
social spending programs since the
New Deal. Its basic tenets include vast
increases in funding for education
and Medicaid, more unemployment
benefits and the creation of public
works projects to secure employment
for millions of Americans.
In addition, the stimulus sets aside
funding for increased broadband
access, alternative energy investment,
financial assistance for college stu-
dents, infrastructure repair and health
care for blue-collar workers. It also
protects unemployed Americans from
losing their health care coverage.
In hopes of appealing to conserva-
tives, Obama pressured Democrats
to exclude a measure that would
make contraceptives more accessible
through Medicaid. Contraceptives
help many families stay afloat and
serve as a crucial element of family
planning. Failing to aid families with
this is an unfortunate means of com-
promise.
Nevertheless, close-mindedness
has compelled conservatives to ignore
the Democrats' concessions. Many
believe the package should focus on

things they view tobe more pertinent
to the economy. What they fail to rer-
ognize is that investing in the afore-
mentioned programs is investing in
the economy..
ProvidingAmericanschools withthe
resources to better educate American
students will lead to a more intellectu-
al workforce. Maintaining affordable
health care will inevitably result in
more people staying healthy and work-
ing more efficiently. Focusing on alter-
native energy will probably help save
domestic industry and simultaneously
rescue the environment in which all of
us work and live. And similar realities
are to be found for each individual part
of the stimulus.
"Well, fine," Republicans might
say, "lots of fancy new programs -
but there aren't enough tax breaks
for 'real Americans.'" In fact, a third
of the stimulus package goes back to
taxpayers in need in the form. of tax
breaks. But it's important to note that
in spite of what conservatives might
say, tax cuts alone are simply not the
answer.
The purpose of a tax cut is to
encourage taxpayers to spend more
at businesses affected by the failing
economy. But at a time when credit is
at a virtual standstill and people are
increasingly nervous about spending,
what little they have, money unspent
in taxes would likely be saved rather
than reinvested into struggling busi-
nesses. Thatmeansmajor cutsintaxes
at this point in time would decrease
government revenue while doing
nothing to help moribund businesses,
in effect making things worse.
To illustrate this point Congress
enacted amoreconservativeapproach
last year to an economic stimulus
program by passing a $168 billion tax
cuts and rebates package. That was
in February 2008. Are we more eco-

nomically sound in February 2009, or
were Americans once again duped by
the myopic social philosophy of the
far right?
To be fair, when discussing public
policy and especially economic poli-
cies, it's important to look carefully
at both sides. When members of both
parties have dissenting opinions in
Congress, representative democracy
is playing its 'A'-game and coming
closer to a holistic middle ground. But
when those opinions yield only bitter
argument - and no results - then the
process is entirely undermined.
Stimulus - it may
sound naughty,
but it's needed.
The House did manage to pass
Obama's stimulus plan, so any further
discussion might seem like a non-
issue. But it passed without a single
Republican vote, and the stubborn-
ness exhibited by House Republicans
scares me. It's a powerful pigheaded-
ness and it must not continue into the
future. There are too many important
bills to pass for partisanship to get in
the way of professionalism.
Regardless of whether or not
everyone on Capitol Hill agrees with
the current terms of the stimulus
package, policy gridlock will get the
U.S. nowhere. That much is clear. If
liberals are willing to come to the
table ready to bargain, Republicans
ought to do the same.
Matthew Green can be reached
at greenmat@umich.edu.

4

4

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
JIM BRUSSTAR IEWP 1NT
MSAs Band-aid solution

4


If any students were still unconvinced of the
ineptitude of the Michigan Student Assembly,
Monday night's Town Hall Meeting has surely
convinced them. Setting the tone for the night
was yet another laughable tirade against the
"Zionists" allegedly in control of MSA and, by
extension, U.S. foreign policy. What followed was
as equally detached from reality; MSA and other
student government leaders took questions from
a small audience of about forty people (comprised
mostly of those already in student government),
assuaging their concerns with nothing more than
recycled and unfulfilled campaign promises.
MSA has spouted a lot of rhetoric of late regard-
ing "accountability," but this is not it.
Over the past week, MSA's Gaza resolution
debacle has brought on a deluge of coverage
detailing its shortcomings, but none were as tell-
ing as Monday's Letter to the Editor (Student
government leaders to hold Town Hall Meeting,
02/02/2009) penned by none other than the
presidents of MSA, LSA Student Government
and the University of Michigan Engineering
Council: Sabrina Shingwani, Leslie Zaikis and
Danny Hsiao, respectively. The central thesis of
their letter seems to be that better communica-
tion with students will lead to more effective
student governments. On the surface, this is hard
to disagree with. A dialogue with constituents is
essential for an efficient government, student or
otherwise.
The problem is that it's completely insincere.
If MSA truly wanted transparency, it might con-
sider updating its website. The most recently
listed meeting minutes and resolutions are a full
11 months out of date. Likewise, this letter would
seem to be the extent of MSA's advertising for the
town hall meeting. Where was the mass email?
Where were all the flyers? A meeting with the
public doesn't work if the public doesn't know
where or when to meet.
The letter goes on to play one of the oldest
(and, incidentally, least effective) cards in the
political deck - blaming the media. The authors,

in an attempt to shirk responsibility for their
administrations' lack of transparency, compares
MSA to NASA. She claims that, like NASA, only
MSA's failures are publicized while their suc-
cesses go unnoticed. While comparing MSA to a
U.S. government agency is an interesting attempt
at implying legitimacy, the comparison is ridicu-
lous. If this is truly the case, then I challenge the
student governments to explain.why every robot
that gets shipped off to Mars is front-page news.
IfMSA is hurting for some positive press, it has
no one to blame but itself. Sure, not everything
MSA does right will make the papers. But with
a budget of hundreds of thousands of dollars,
the lack of newsworthy projects or initiatives is
simply a disgrace. The letter from the presidents
exposes the "town hall meeting" for what it real-
ly was - not an opportunity for real feedback,
but rather a public relations band-aid to stem the
recent bleeding only long enough for inevitable
student apathy to kick back in.
So how do we fix MSA and finally restore
accountability to student government? The
solution is quite simple - we must rid our-
selves of the single-party system. That means
we need an alternative to the Michigan Action
Party. Despite years of stagnation and scandal
(remember Zack Yost and Anton Vuljaj?), and
the same unfulfilled campaign "promises" each
semester, MAP continues its single-party reign
over student government. Without another
party in serious contention, voters cannot oust
the ineffectual party from office. Consequently,
our elections have become just about as mean-
ingless as North Korea's.
If there is any real leadership left in student
government, your mandate is clear. Break off
from your party bosses and forge into the future
under a new banner. The voters will reward
you. Until you do, your "town hall meetings"
will remain nothing more than "Tammany
Hall Meetings."
Jim Brusstar is an Engineering sophomore.

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Argument against LSA foreign
language requirement is faulty

Patsy recycles ti
right. He argues th
ed to build his way
construction of th
been encouraging

TO THE DAILY: seven years prior t
I just read a viewpoint in the Daily in which an out- Patsy's other ma
of-state freshman complains to everyone about having ment in 1938 rems
to fulfill the foreign language requirement (Foreign lan- New Deal progran
guage frustration, 02/02/2009). The author says he does course of 1936 and
not want to take any more Italian, because he does not the fastest rate in1
like it and will never use it. He also informs us that no one 14 percent. In 1938
should be required to study languages, alluding generi- starting another re
cally and inanely to a globalized world in which everyone reason? Roosevelt,
speaks English. attempted to balan
How nice. First of all, people should take a language works projects.
that interests them and that they could someday use. That With a bit of hon
way, they can take a more serious interest in studying it. tics he cites prove t
If you don't want to take Italian, you shouldn't. Second, if
you don't believe you should have to fulfill this University Zachary Martin
requirement, keep in mind that you knew what you were LSA sophomore
getting yourself into when you came here. And no stu-
dentis entitled to skip the foreign language requirement, Daschlesc
because the University has good reasons for enforcing it.
Obviously, only a minority of the world's population can forpolitic
speak English. But beyond that fact, not everyone wants
to, nor should they have to. The aim of this requirement
is to prepare you to be a world citizen, willing and able to TO THE DAILY:
work respectfully and cooperatively with other people of In the wake of
the world. Assuming everyone will speak English to you director of the Del
is arrogant and incorrect, and this attitude perpetuates es nomination, ant
an embarrassing stereotype of Americans abroad. such as Bill Rich:

he standard dishonest claims of the far
hat President Herbert Hoover attempt-
out of the Great Depression, citing the
e Hoover Dam. In reality, Hoover had
construction of the dam since 1922,
o the stock market crash. ,
jor piece of evidence is that unemploy-
ained at 19 percent after five years of
ms. He leaves out the fact that over the
1937, Gross National Product grew at
US history. Unemployment dropped to
, the GNP fell and unemployment grew,
cession after five years of recovery. The
after a half-decade of deficit spending,
ce the budget by cutting back on public
esty, Patsy would realize that the statis-
he necessity of government spending.
,ndalprompts the need
al accountability
Tom Daschle's withdrawal from his
partment of Health and Human Servic-
d as other high-profile political officials
ardson and Nancy Killefer have been

4

4

forced to drop
Adam Ajlouni isn't it time w
LSA senior under review fi
People faile.
Patsy should have considered all before the pet
While Bill Ric
statistics in New Deal evaluation officialskneed t
ing back contr
was the Senate
TO THE DAILY: more than $80,
In.order to justify his opposition to the proposed eco- is called tax ev
nomic stimulus package, Vincent Patsy marshaled a host This is beyond1
of statistics to suggest that both the New Deal and World don't find amoi
War II failed to pull the United States out of the Great
Depression and, instead, made it worse (Recession and Asa Smith
depression myths, 2/3/2009). LSA freshman

out of the limelight due to similar scrutiny,
e examine our officials before they come
or high-profile jobs?
d to realize these things were happening
ople in question were up for nomination.
hardson was preaching about how public
o do what is best for the people, he was kick-
acts to political supporters. Tom Daschle
e majority leader while he failed to declare
,000 in income in 2007. For anyone else, this
asion. For politicians, it's an, "Oops, sorry."
unacceptable. Just imagine the skeletons we
ng our other 535+ public servants.

4


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
&


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 - 5A

Nas brings his
rhymes to EMU

"'m Jason Bourne in 20 years."
indleM ssthrill

By JEFF SANFORD
DailyArts Writer
Ladies and gents of the University, roll
your blunts up tight; dust off those old
bottles of Moet and Alize; and please,
for God's sake, put away
that tired, auto-tuned NaS
hip hop. Nas is here.
Well, not yet. But Friday,
this Friday, acclaimed 7:30 p.m.
rapper Nas will be per- Atthe EMU
forming just down the Cunvocation
road at Eastern Michi- Center
gan University's Con- $35 and $45
vocation Center.
In 1994, Nas debuted
with the now-legendary album Illmatic.
Ever since, he has been a titan of the
hip-hop industry, maintaining a repu-
tation as the rap game's poet laureate.
Considering the elaborate rhymes and
abundant literary allusions sprinkled
generously throughout his songs - not
to mention his beautifully poignant ren-
derings of inner-city life - the title is
hardly unwarranted.
Yet in the 15 years since his debut, his
career hasn't been all handshakes and
backrubs. From pestering accusations
of selling out to his involvement in one
of hip hop's most notorious feuds (with
fellow rap elite Jay-Z), Nas has seen his
share of drama. But he and Jigga have
long since made amends, and his recent
street-consciousworkhas allbutsilenced
the critics. His name remains one of the
most revered in hip hop today.
Nas is not one to settle into compla-
cency, and his cushy throne at the head
of the rap kingdom hasn't made him shy
away from controversy. His most recent
LP, released in July, was originally sup-
posed to be titled Nigger. But after a furi-
ous shit-storm of uproars from various
retailers and high-profile personalities
like Reverend Jesse Jackson, the album
was simply re-titled Untitled, with Nas
remarking: "The people will n always
know what the real title of this album
is and what to call it." Still, it proved to
be an epic call-out of a record - slam-
ming FOX News, belittling George W.
Bush and successfully predicting Barack
Obama's rise to the presidency. The
reviews weren't bad either, with a four-
star review from Rolling Stone and a
prestigious four-and-a-half out of five
rating from The Source.
Performing with Nas on Friday are
Royce Da 5'9", hip-hop collective Street

Justice and rapper Johnny Saxx. Native
Detroiter Royce has a history in the rap
game stretching back to 1997, when he
and Eminem collaborated and released
several tracks together. After some sig-
nificant buzz early on, a brief prison sen-
tence hampered the young rapper's rise
to fame. But now he's out and looking
again to break into the mainstream with
the upcoming March release of his fifth
album, Street Hop.
Also Detroit locals, Street Justice and
Johnny Saxx have The D in their hearts
and aim to bring Motown back into the
hip hop limelight. Undoubtedly, theywill
shine in front of the hometown crowd
Friday. The Michigan Dance Team will
also accompany all acts on stage.
It's not every day that a living legend
comes to town. And Nas truly has the
credentials to be considered, as the pro-
One of hip-hop's
most revered artists
hits Ypsilanti.
motion for the show not-so-farfetched-
ly calls him, "One of the five greatest
emcees of all time."
Contrary to the title of Nas's 2006
effortHipHop isDead, hip hopisunques-
tionably alive. And on Friday, the evi-
dence will be indisputable to those who
make it out to the Convocation Center.
For Michigan students, free bussing
will be provided to and from the show
with proof of an MCard. Buses will leave
from the Michigan Union for the Convo-
cation Center at 7 p.m. After the- show,
buses will be running back to the Union
and to popular bars and clubs around
Michigan's camnus.

With Liam Neeson
onboard, this run-of-the-
mill action flick manges
to get most things right
By SHERI JANKELOVITZ
Daily Arts Writer
"Taken" appears to be an above-aver-
age action film - until you start thinking
about it. Now, thinking,
about an action film is
never a particularly good
idea because it's probably Taken
full of holes, and "Taken"
is no exception. At Showcase
Bryan Mills (Liam and Quality 16
Neeson, "Batman 20th Century Fox
Begins") is a retired
government agent try-
ing desperately to live a normal life so he
can get to know his daughter Kim (Maggie
Grace, "The Fog"). His former job drove
him to paranoia, so naturally he's opposed
to Kim jetting off with a friend to spend

her summer in Paris. Sure enough, when
they go, Kim and her friend are abducted
by a gang of Albanians faster than Mills
can say, "I told you so."
It's up to Mills to tear through Paris
until he finds his daughter, who appar-
ently has been sold into sexual slavery.
He's given only 96 hours to find her, which
explains why he's never seen eating,
showering or even sleeping. In fact, Mills
doesn't seem to need to participate in any
of these human practices;'he acts more like
Robocop or The Terminator than a flesh-
and-blood person. But he's surprisingly
effective at what he does, considering that
all the evidence he has to work with is a
string of convenient coincidences.
When it comes to action, "Taken" defi-
nitely delivers. There are car chases, fist-
fights and ample explosions. The action
scenes are also blissfully short so there's
no opportunity for them to get boring. Like
any action film, the bad guys are sniveling
weasels - caricatures whose departures
won't be mourned by anyone, least of all
the audience. The film is less about these
bad guys (none are even given names) and
more about Neeson simply wreaking havoc

on everything in his path. The man is sur-
prisingly limber for his age; perhaps more
action films will be in his future.
But then, inevitably, come the ques-
tions. How exactly is Mills not in any sort
of trouble for the fact that he has destroyed
a ton of Parisian property and killed doz-
ens of bad guys, all on his own? What
exactly is this government conspiracy he
has stumbled upon? And who keeps hiring
these henchmen? Obviously, nobody has
been teaching them how to win a firefight:
they can't hit the broad side of a barn, and
yet they're defeated by the hero with one
bullet. They could use some practice in a
shooting gallery.
While the film is undeniably ridiculous,
it's hard to nitpick, except when it comes
to the preposterously happy ending. With-
out giving it away, there is simply no way
everything could return to normal after
what transpires before the mushy conclu-
sion. Like everything else in the movie, it's
best to simply accept the flawed finish.
Like most action films, "Taken" has its
fair share of problems. And though it may
be all action and little brains, it still gets the
job done. Just don't think too much into it.

Dilek delivers

Eve
groun
hop
two-pi
Ddlek
sider.
MC (a
Ddlek)
politica
sociall
 rhyme
minde
Jedi M
ing bea
Oktop
that p
guitar
fromin
gaze, d
the u
strippe
Shea
the lo-
a grim
As
rap
post-in
statem
ragga/
Brookl
checks
MC Di
is enca
"Concr
tumult
on shoe
weight
Suc
the en
from t
tion." N
respon
tion of
victory
these
dent d
A rich

By JACK PORTER kind." It's a sharp rebuttal to Jeezy's
Daily Arts Writer claim that Obama is "stuntin' on
Martin Luther feelin' just like a king
n within the eclectic under- / Guess dis is what he meant when
d hip- he said dat he had a dream."
scene, the While MC Dilek is an icono-
ece outfit *** clast, he's just as cocky as the main-
is an out- Diek stream rappers he puts down: on
While the "Gutter Tactics" he spits, "I've had
iso named Gutter Tactics it with these half-assed kids,.only
writes Ipepac concerned with material / inferior
ally and insight, rhymes superficial." His
yconscious hypnotic delivery is backed by a
s that resonate with similarly bizarre symphony of oceanic gui-
d groups like Aesop Rock and tar growls and yawlping dissonant
hind Tricks, the accompany- chords. Despite the unconventional
ats are truly unique. Producer sounds, MC Dalek still shows his
us crafts huge soundscapes dedication to cultural roots on
ulse with layers of buzzing tracks like "Armed With Krylon,"
feedback, drawing influence where he confides his "only solace
ndiesplinter-genres like shoe- lie(s) in the language of drums."
Prone and post-rock, although Though the album keeps up a
nderlying drum loops are level of consistent quality through-
ed-down and traditional. out, the most accomplished cut is
aths of dissonance smother "Street Diction," where both mem-
fi rhythm section, illustrating bers of the DOlek duo are at their
portrait of post-modern and best. Fractals of crystalline chimes
erupt over melancholy bass yawns
while MC Dilek's tightly wound
cocky as the verses weave through the cracks.
He pays homage to the wordsmiths
pers it mocks. before him - he "hope(s) to reach
apex like Kerouac at his peak."
Dilek is innovative and daring,
dustrial life. The aesthetic but Oktopus's distinctive produc-
ent complements that of tion style threatens to drown out
dubstep producer The Bug's his MC's impassioned stanzas. It
yn Zoo, and Dilek even name- takes several careful headphone
the artiston"StreetDiction." trips to appreciate both the sonic
Ilek'sbleakvisionofthe world and lyrical depth of the album.
psulated on "We Lost Sight": Still, MC Dilek's flow and wordplay
ete terrain turned molten / can't live up to those of his more
uous days fall consecutive distinguished peers. His imagery
'ulders of men / got enough is powerful but his vocal delivery is
without beingcondemned." predictable. The danger is that the
h pessimism extends across duo will only be known for its sound
tire album and is felt right and not its rhymes, which are often
he opening salvo, "No Ques- impressively iconic, as on "2012
MtC Dilek offers up a skeptical (The Pillage)": "Lives change direc-
se to Young Jeezy's celebra- tions / like Nile we life's essence /
f President Barack Obama's Engaged eternal, we struggle with
, "My President is Black," in peril / Perhaps we are gutter, but
caustic lines: "A black presi- . your God is my devil." MC D51ek
on't ensure the sun shine / has talent, but-in his words -has
president represent his own yet to reach his apex.

OK, SMARTY PANTS
LET'S DO T-HE MATH.
You grab a friend and head out to any of [j Qdoba locations in Ann Arbor.
of you has a Buy 1 Burrito Get Free Coupon in your cell phone.
You show the coupon when you come in and get free, delicious burrito.
2 friends enjoy a great meal, friend eats for free. Calculates quite nicely.
Or, you come as a party of j , and you show your coupon when you come in.
[ii person enjoys 2j burritos and burrito is absolutely free. Adds up equally
well. To get your Buy 1i Burrito Get 1 Free Coupon, take a * 0 @O0
picture of this JAGTAG with your Verizon or AT&T phone
and send the picture to 15L ~ fif~ J(iPhones send to
iphone@jagtag.net). You'll get your coupon (up to a $6.50 value) sent right back
to your phone. Just bring your phone when you come in, and show us your coupon

when you check out.
Available only to AT&T and Verizon customers.
Standard messaging rates apply.
Now by North Campus!
Plymouth Road 2252 South Main Washtenaw Avenue
& Murfin Avenue ic AA-Saline Road & Haren Parkway

MEXICAN GRILL

Coupon expires 2/8/09. Void where prohibited, taxed or restricted. Consumers must pay any sales tax. Not responsible for
misdirected, garbled, delayed, lost or late coupons. Certain other restrictions may apply.To view program Terms & Conditions,
visit http://www.jagtag.com/support/TernisConditions.htm.

4


6A - Wednesday, February 4, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


FOUND: WOMEN'S WINTER
hat/beret. E-mail @
mwelfel@umich.edu
parking
025 OC
PARKING SPACE AT corner of Divi-
sion/Huron. Easy access, paved lot -
plowed/salted. $135/mo. 994-8120.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths. furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL '09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!NEW FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE!!
Newly built, 4-bdrm./3 bath, hse. Ctr.
a/c, dwshr., !dry., deck, garage, free
prkg. Close to medical school! 1318
Jones 734-995-8695 $1990/m.
!2 BDRMS - Great campus locations!
1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917 Packard,
848Tappan, & 521 Walnut. All fur-
nished, include heat, water, and park-
ing, some have free wireless!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100.
2-BED 2-Bath!
515 Walnut: Huge apt.. great for 3 or
4, tons of sunlight, furnished, new
kitchen, laundry and parking!
www.varsitymangcment.com
(734)1668-1100.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 719-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 whin, walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houes Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Special
734-6p2-4446
no@iaapropertie.com

WisonWhite
MA
U of M
Housing Fair!
02.04.2209
Michigan Union
ballroom
We will be there with
specials, decl,
freebies, and will be
dressed to impress!

!3 BEDROOM Apts!
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherinc:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.-
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)1668-1100.
.6-BEDROOM House!
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 - 8 people. Close to
Downtown, Zingerman's & summer
farm market! (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or entail
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info apostrealtyproperties.con
**AVAIL. FALL '09. 3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. fuin. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,.
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM., UPPER half of house with
free washer/dryer, separate entrance,
A/C, lots of closet space, extra storage
in basement, small backyard, off street
parking, close to campus and bu:s lines.
Some pets allowed. 775 hs + utiliies
Available early March, Call Mike 734-
-4-5771.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water nel. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Pagkard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath.. 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net

Now until they're gone, get a pizza
coupon for every new tour!
We offer many arnenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave. j
Ann Arbor, MlI 481041
734-761-2680
www.unversitytowers-micom
University
6 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer,nno coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges.
front porch & deck in back.
Call 248-214-8708!
6 BDRM. FALL 09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
Styudi & 1
8d!r. Un its
TwrPlaza Condominium -
""77Q.x&.cM _gh-ris- Onrb ockfnmCag.
Ca'I nan Toms
734-663-1530
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldownrealty.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
F REE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
711-8000 prib essconm
*Ameeities varies by locution
lA
WilsonWhire

the .
PR6tPBRTY MAMA66MbiET
'OS.taed &old095
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms

CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
16 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$17$5
5 Bedrooms

Avail. 611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
Spring & Fall 2009 826 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995

734.741.9300
www.attiarborapartmetits.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes AVe.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the
Best Central Campus DEALS!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and 11 Style units
This will not last long, when they're
gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www. wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus si wilsonwhitemanagement.com
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Cull today 741-96357.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security huzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2009!!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. -Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking. Small management
company with excellent record of per-
sonal service. We provide first rate ser-
vice! Lease with a
cospany that truly cures!
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to casmpus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BIG HSE: 5 lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free ]dry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.

6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1199/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard.
Hor 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free
dry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818.
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water incl. $1799/ mo. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
qrtmntc A i ahio


MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248)626-0614.
3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1400/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-1 LEFT
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown


4

4

p 'i 1G t6t 6 26.C V'1CHY It/ Ittll *Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Partially ?urnished, par-k ng *'Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
Leases for May and WE WILL BE there - will you? U of
M Housing Fair, Michigan Union ball-
room 02-04-09 12-4:30; we will
Voted -# by Michigan Daily have deals, specials, giveaways, and
fancy dress! Stop by and find your
Readers housing for next year...now! Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
sww.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-5620
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009 IMMEDIATE & FALL
3 bedrooms: OCCUPANCY
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695 Great lucatiun: 1328S. University
4 bedrooms: Negotiable Rateu & Flexible Term
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895 FurFREE Internet
113 Hill $2050 - --

4

4

5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995

1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. antat 1312 Svhil ..3 ha-rm

4

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, February 4, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 TV production co. 38 Price 51 Diarist Bridget's
1 Jerk whose mascot 39 Sounds from portrayer
6 Unwilling to listen was Mimsienthe Santa 52 Down-at-heel
10 Pinochle calls Cat 40 Top 53 Rug rat
14 Emulate Cicero 5 Bodies oftwork 42 "Exodus" actor 54Bum
15 Questionable 6 Brit's nappy, here 43 Leafy green 55 Afflictions
16 "A Death insthe 7 Immature 45 Bit of corn 56 Gloria
Family" novelist salamanders 46 Leaves holder Estefan's
17 Site of strange 8 Cape Verde's 47 Cheese in a ball birthplace
disappearances cont. 50 Each of this 59 Surfing venue
20 Somme summer 9"This might puzzle's four 60 Camera type, for
21 BMOCs, e.g. interest you," in longest answers short
22 Entrance memos begins with one 61 Kanga's son
23 High-quality wine 10 split
25 Singer Redbone 11 Pop of rock ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
27 Gulf of Panama 12 Site ofna wA T S _SC A T S O B S
archipelago memorable
32 Displays at a St. "When Harry MetE HALO 0 U 0 1
Petersburg, Sally"scene D E C A F A V E O U S C G
Florida, museum 13 Observed P E R F E C T M A T C H
35 They may be 18 Primasdonna M A X SO T S U B S E T
rolled t9SMilmrants AS SA IL RtA ItD
36 Texastea 24Hugeinpscoe MYOL D F LAME T OF U
37 Venna-based 25 Whoppermaker?
sante! 28 Created, on MODSE IDO EASES
38fWinechoice, signs AUTO T R A I L B L A ZE
brnefly 28 Awhole lot GEAR U EC K ER
40 U2 co-founder 29 High time? M A EN S S N A S S
and Nobel Peace 30Cacophonies A N G E L A S A S H E S
Prize nominee 31 Ginflavoring J I L L B E N T Z E B R A
41 Whole lot 32 Things to M
42 Frame oftmind connect
43 Perceive 33 Each R E 0 S E D E R R I G B Y
44 Roman landmark 34 Actress Olin xwordeditor@aol.com 02/03/099
rising from the 1 2 3 45 6 7 a 8 9 1 11112 13
Piazza di Spagna
48 Digging 14 1s 1s
48 Changing
careers ? 17 819
53 Lent or Zehulan
58 "The odathe 20 21
astor 23 225z
57 Ose known as
58 Song vessel 27 28 29 30 31
beneath an"sea of
green" 32 33 4 u 35 36
62 Leafy green
83 Site ofl 73 9a
Napoleon's exile a1 a2 a3
64 Murmuredlovingly
65 Formerly, us 45 4 47
formerly
66 Show onf a a 505162
e7Sweetepie us 66 51
53 a 55 56 67
DOWN ss 5 0 1
1 Solemn
2 Centeroflthe 62 63
Minoan
civilization 65 66 67
3 Calves : cows::
leverets : By Donna S. Levin 004/
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

4

611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEW
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT'S
Upscale5 bedroom
.aartmernts @61 1
Church! iheij art
newlg constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, wt/ ,ai/
the a test antcsgtc ufe'sf
minsc t/es, lice a
washer a i d rieir in
uni

Deadlineforline ads is 11:30amone business day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 perlinefor each
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for detalsn Students may receive a 25%discount when
ads are placed in person with avalid student ID (non-organizational non-
business ads only) a All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been established n We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check a For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
I day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 8.60 12.90 17.20 21.50. 25.80
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
160- Pats

4

4lines 17.20 25.0
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined
TMD for failure to publsh an advertisement for any reaso
shal be limited to publshing in a subsequent issueandn
wll be responsible for classified advertisement errors onl
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rates ines aret
Ion eueoa itreuestvii and paid i u yt 1132 n
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadline
been published. Refusal:Al ads are subject to editing a!
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves tf
accepting advertising.

.40 4:

4

fby
)n,
na
ly i

y TMD wi be accepted. Misprints: Theliablity of
i, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
ot more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publcation.
nsecutive insertions. Anad maybe extended at a
on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds:
but no refund wil be given unless the ad has not yet
d approval. We do not publsh advertisements for
e right to request samples of mal ordertitems prior to

4

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

I

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigantlailycom Wednesday, Fehruary 4, 2009 - JA

SPECTRUM CENTER
From Page 1A
or who are uncomfortable with
their sexual orientation or gen-
der identity may find the prospect
of entering the Spectrum Center
or attending an LGBT student
group meeting to be too risky or
intimidating," Correa said. "Some
may fear being seen by others and
being identified as LGBT, some
may not be ready to be around a
group of LGBT people."
Correa said the new program
is being launched as a response to
previous insufficient support pro-
grams for students.
"We've found that existing
coming out support resources
were insufficient," he said. "We
needed a new way to support stu-
dents going through a difficult
time."
After filling out a confidential
online request form, students will
be matched with a GPS student

mentor by a GPS coordinator. The
student and the GPS mentor will
be pairedbased on shared identi-
ties and backgrounds.
Correa said the program is
designed to benefit students who
are coming out, and also the stu-
dents who are providingsupport.
"It's also a great way for stu-
dents who already have experi-
ence with coming out to give back
to their community by helping
others going through a situation
they might have been through,"
he said.
Correa said the main goal of
GPS is to provide a program for
students who are coming out to
feel more at ease with their sexual
identities.
"We hope to give students a
new tool to use as they are navi-
gating their way out of their
closet," Correa said. "I-opefully,
the program will help students
struggling with their identity
to feel more comfortable with
themselves."

Professors enter the blogosphere


TUITION FREEZE
From Page 1A
education from the University of
Michigan."
Cunningham did not respond
to whether the University would
agree to freeze tuition or whether
it would raise tuition next year,
but said the University is currently
working on its budget for next year.
"We're in the early stages of
developing next year's budget,
which typically is presented to
the Board of Regents in June," she
wrote.
Mike Boulus, leader of the Pres-
idents Council, State Universities
of Michigan - the body that rep-
resents the presidents of Michi-
gan's public universities - told
the Associated Press that a tuition
freeze without increased state
funding would be "a tough pill to
swallow."
"We're being cautious right
now," he said. "We would have to
TECHNOLOGY
From Page 1A
communicate on the spot and
didn't have a professional inter-
preter with them at the time."
Gilbert and Yu began working
on MSigns in January 2006. They
entered their idea in a program at
the Digital Media Commons in the
Duderstadt Center, which awards
cash grants to students who sub-
mit project ideas that incorporate
digital media.
Gilbert, who is fluent in sign
language and Yu, who has comput-
er-programming experience, col-
laborated to develop the project.
As an undergraduate student
at Brigham Young University, Gil-
bert worked as a sign language
translator to help pay his tuition
bills. He said many deaf and hear-
ing-impaired people told him they
preferred sign language to writ-
ten speech because it was easier to
understand.
Gilbert realized it was pos-
sible to create an application for a
smart phone, which would trans-
late speech into a video image of
sign language.
"We'd like it to be something
you can use on your phone like
more along the lines of a Google
app, or an iPhone app or an add-on
program to an install phone plan
- or even a service you could use
on the Internet," he said.
While a few products exist
that can translate speech to sign
language, they are expensive -
including the iCommunicator,
which costs $6,500.
"It's out of the range of the
everyday person, and that's who
we want to bring this to," he said.
Though the MSign's technol-
ogy isn't currently compatible
with cell phones, it's designed to
work with PC computers. Gilbert
and Yu said they plan to develop
a model the public can use within
the next month and distribute the
BLOOD CHALLENGE
From Page 1A
to exceed their goal of 1700 pints
of blood.
Talpos said he thinks donating
blood is one of the most charitable
things a person can do.

"It seems to me so simple," he
said. "There is no reason people
should be dying for lack of blood.
It's a way we can help someone
out without having to receive any-
thing in return."

hear more about the details."
Last year, Granhom asked
state universities to limit tuition
increases to the rate of inflation
- then 2.3 percent. In exchange,
Granholm had planned to
increase state funding to the uni-
versities by 3 percent, but the leg-
islature reduced the increase to 1
percent.
The University has raised
tuition every year for the past
nine years. Increases have ranged
from a 2.8- percent increase in
2000 and 2004 to a 12.3-percent
increase in 2005.
The University raised tuition
by 5.6 percent last year, when
the state's 15 public universi-
ties averaged a 7 percent tuition
increase.
Granholm's entire plan will
become public next week when
she submits her budget proposal
to the state legislature.
- The Associated Press
contributed to this report.
product by next fall.
Ina later version of the technol-
ogy, Yu said that using a camera
phone, the goal is to develop the
product to translate sign language
into words.
Currently, the program can
only translate English into sign
language, ut Yu said she intends
to add more languages.
"Sign language, like spoken lan-
guage, is different in every coun-
try so we'd have to basically redo
the whole process with another
set of vocabulary," Yu said. "It's
certainly something to think of
but (English speakers) are by far
the largest sign language commu-
nity right now."
To film their current prototype,
Gilbert and Yu used the Motion
Capture Studio at the University's
3D laboratory to record the videos.
"We really want to doa motion
capture version of sign language
rather than just video taping
a human," he said. "We think
there's a lot we can do with the
digital data in the long run."
So far, deaf and hearing-
impaired high school students
who attended a College of Engi-
neering summer program have
been involved in the testing of
MSigns.
"They were excited to see it,"
Yu said. "It wasn't the perfect
solution because it only does one
way right now, but they were glad
to see there was something being
developed that was targeted for
them because that doesn't happen
very often."
Yu said she hoped MSigns will
have a positive impact on the edu-
cation and employment prospects
for the hearing impaired.
"Transcribers, when they
take notes for the students, it's
still pretty difficult for hearing
impaired students to interact
inside a classroom or with stu-
dents," she said. "We want to fill
that gap so they can more fully
integrate into society."
Talpos also stressed the impor-
tance of donating blood despite
the snow and cold.
"In the cold winter months, we
get a lot less peoplebecause people
are less likely to leave their hous-
es to donate," he said. "We could
really use aslot more people show-

ing up because there is always a
blood shortage."
For a full list of places, dates
and times to donate blood for
the Face Off, go to www.give-
life.org and use the sponsor code
"goblue."

From Page 1A
in academic research and publish-
ing becomes more complex.
Mark Perry, an associate profes-
sor of economics and finance at the
University's Flint campus, is a self-
described "slave" to his economics
blog, "Carpe Diem." Perry said he
spends up to five hours a day mak-
ing various posts to his blog and
thinks there is a place for blogging
in the duties of a university profes-
sor, albeit an evolving one.
"It's so new that (universities)
haven'tquite incorporatedityetinto
the three areas that we're respon-
sible for - teaching, research and
service," Perry said. "But it really
kind of overlaps in all those areas."
Perry said he believes that blog-
ging could be considered applied
research.
But in an interview, University
Provost Teresa Sullivan said that
blogging lacks an important ele-
ment, which generally elevates the
credibility of a publication: peer
review.
"Peer review is an important
quality marker," said Sullivan.
"With electronic media now, any-
body can publish anything."
While the University doesn't
view blogs as a form of official
research or publishing, Sullivan
said she encourages professors to
use them, even if they express con-
troversial opinions or ideas.
"That's what universities are
about," Sullivan said. "The univer-
sity is the place where you're free
to put ideas out there, and we're
tolerant of other people's ideas but
it also means you've got to be ready
for somebody to go after you and
attack your ideas."
That open door for comments
adds a dynamic element to blogs,
which can further strain bloggers-
who take the time to edit readers'
posts. Harvard University Econom-
ics Prof. Greg Mankiw has removed
the comment feature altogether from
his economics blog.
History Prof. Juan Cole writes
what is probably the most well-
known of University of Michigan
professors' blogs as well as the most
controversial. His blog "Informed
Comment,". focuses on the Middle

Communication Studies Prof. Fara Warner works on her laptop during office hours at Starbucks on South University yesterday.

East and has received both posi-
tive and negative critical attention.
Cole said most of his students know
about his blog, and he references it
in class but doesn't make it part of
the curriculum.
"I don't do my blog as part of my
university duties," Cole said. "I do it
on my private time. For that reason,
I can sometimes be a little more
political."
With his blog, Cole has gained
recognition as an expert on the
Middle East and gets at least
800,000 visits a month.
While many professors anchor
their posts in facts and data, others
employ a less journalistic style and
write on topics outside their aca-
demic expertise.
Engineering Prof. Thomas Zur-
buchen writes a blog through the
Center for Entrepreneurship web-
site, though his content generally
addresses subjects other than his
academic specialty.
"The vast majority of topics are

about things other than engineer-
ing," Zurbuchen said. " feel it's
important to recognize as an engi-
neer that we have to learn how to
recognize the impact that we can
make, and see opportunity and
adjust to change. Engineering is not
just engineering, it's about much
more than that, and it requires
skills in many other areas."
Regardless of how this niche
of the blogging world evolves, the
trend shows no sign of slowing. Uni-
versity Librarian Paul Courant, who
is also a Public Policy professor and
author of the blog "Au Courant,"
said the trend is a positive thing.
"I actually think it's very good
if professors talk or convey their
views less formally to a broader
audience than we do in our formal
research publications," said Cou-
rant. "So I very much like the idea
that members of our. faculty use
their expertise in the wider world."
Blogs considerably raise the pro-
file of University professors, which

is good for the University. Through
their archive of posts, professors
advertise their expertise in a given
field. Establishing that authority
leads calls from the media - and
the University's appearing in print.
Perry used himselfas an example
of what blogs can do to elevate an
instructor's status, saying a Google
search of his name yields substan-
tially more results than University
President Mary Sue Coleman. Cole-
man's name generates 246,000
results while Perry's name registers
more than 2,620,000 results.
"Someone like Mary Sue Cole-
man, who has a very high profile
- you would expect a lot of atten-
tion to her on the Internet," Perry
said. "Now here I am just as a pro-
fessor without any staff, without
any research, writing a blog that's
gotten pretty popular. I've now got
this presence on the Internet that
in terms of the number of hits is
even higher than the president of
the University."

DO YOU KNOW HOW TO USE FLASH AND WANT TO
GET INVOLVED IN-THE DAILY?
E-mail graca@michigandaily.com for more information.
the michigan daily

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
090
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
nude, semi-nude photography. No expe-
rience, Flexiheie hoss, great pay. Must
he t5. For interview call 734-675-4151.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
PLANNED PARENTHOOD AFFIL-
IATES of Michigan (PPAM) is look-
ing for a motivated indiv. for P/T posi-
tion based in Lansing. Responsibilities
intl. donor gift recording and acknowl-
edgment, datahase mgmt., and general
office support. High school degree,
database exp. and attention to detail are
req. Send cover letter and resume to:
Planned Parenthood, Human Resources
- Dept. FA, P.O. Box 3673, Ann Ar-
bor, 48106; fax (734) 973-0595; or
email recruiter@ppmchoice.org EOE.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
atetoget the experience you need!

ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript In camhedu@aol.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and footman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
U OF M Student Lab Assistant. Age-
ing Research. Mouse husbandry and
data collection. Holiday and weekend
availahility needed. 1015 hr/wk.
Contact Maggie 936-2164.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
tiCkets & travel
SPRING BREAK IS better BY THE
SEA! Why? Rooms right on Panama
City Beach from per $49* night,
rooms across the street for even less,
1,100 feet of sugar-white beach,
heated gulf-front pools and
whirlpools, Spring Break specials at
our beachfront bar and grill, loca-
tions minutes from Spring Break hot
spots and the Pier Park shopping
and entertainment complex plns
more. Learn about our VIP contest
and all the Spring Break mayhem at
bythesearesorts.com. Call 888-627-
0625 to claim your room now! *Rate
based on double occupancy and does
not include tax.


For Thursday, Feb. 5, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Today you feel passionately about
practically anything and everything. It's
almost as if you have lost your center of
balance. It's OK to enjoy things to the
fullest, hut don't get your belly in a rash.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
You are quietly determined to do
something, and you're prepared to move
mountains to make it happen.
Determination is a wonderful thing, but
obsession is questionable.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
Friends could become lovers today. At
the very least, you'll feel something very
strong far a friend or even a cassal
acquaintace. (And you can't hide it!)
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Others want your creative input on
something today. They feel that your
ideas will make an improvement. Just
say yes, because you can do it.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You feel very strongly about some-
thing related to publishing, higher edu-
cation, medicine or the law. Or you
might be super determined to travel
somewhere. You mean business!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Conversations with partners and close
friends are very intense today. They
could be romantically intense or, altema-
tively, intense about money and shared
possessions. Go easy!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23to Oct. 22)
Today you have a do-or-die attitude
about something, and it could be about a
close relationship or a partnership.
(Partnerships are very important to you.

Don't throw the baby out with the bath
watet.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov.21)
You've got big ideas about how to
make improvements at work. Let's hope
people listen to you. (A romance at work
could also begin today!)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You'reatraveler and you love a sense
of adventure. Today you feel passion-
ately about romance, vacations, the arts
and playful activities with children.
You're raring to go!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Home-entertaining or -decorating pro-
jects mean a lot to you right now. You
wool to improve your family, relation-
ships and how you fret ahout where you
live.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
You can sell snow to the Eskimos
today! You're fervently passionate about
whatever you're talking about. Look out,
world!
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You might discover new sources of
income today. However, if you're shop-
ping, you're practically obsessed about
buying something. (Slow down. Best to
give things a sober, second thought.)
YOU BORN TODAY You're clever
with words. You have such style and
grace that people listen to you. You
know how to appeal to the emotions of
others. Many of you have secret, private
lives that very few are aware of You
need to be captain of your ship, master
of your soul! This is a powerful time.
You're wrapping up something to get
ready to move on to new turf.
Birthdate of: Don Cherry, hockey
commentator; Barbara Hershey, actress;
Jeremy Sumpter, actor.

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc

WANT TO WRITE FOR
DAILY NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com


4

8A - Wednesday, February 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'1W surprisingly
hasn't seen a
shootout so far

The Victors vs. the eSt
We know the Wolverines have a game tomorrow against Penn State. So what? The team is taking on
Connecticut, the top-ranked squad in the nation, on Saturday - and that's always a big deal. The Daily
has dug through the record books and found Michigan's all-time record versus the No.l team in the na-
tion, and guess what? It's not great. In 19 tries, the Wolverines are 1-18. Can they make it 2-18 on Saturday?

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily SportsEditor
Last month, the CCHA released
its annual captains' poll. The
awards given out ranged from the
serious (best passer) to the silly
(best nickname).
"Best shootout skater," intended
to be a legitimate category, turned
out to be one of the most comi-
cal. The honor went to Wolverine
sophomore forward Aaron Palush-
aj, a talented skater and stickhan-
dler.
What's so funny about Palush-
aj's nod? Well, he plays for the
Michigan hockey team - the only
squad in the conference to not play
in a shootout so far this season.
During the off-season, the con-
ference became the nation's first to
implement a three-player shootout
formation for CCHA games that
remain tied after 60 minutes of
regulation and a five-minute over-
time period.
But the Wolverines haven't
competed in a shootout, let alone
played in overtime, through their
first 20 conference games.
By this time last season, Michi-
gan had already posted three ties.
And it's not like the Wolver-
ines haven't been in close games.
They've played eight games decid-
ed by one goal and won five of
them..
"It's kind of weird," junior act-
ing captain Chris Summers said.
"I guess it's just how the puck
bounces. We don't really expect to
go into overtime or anything like
that. I guess it's just a coincidence
that we haven't."
Summers said it would have
been nice to have an extra period
Saturday night against then-No. 1
Notre Dame, the closest the team
has come to ending regulation in
a tie.
With 31 seconds left in the game,
it appeared that junior defense-
man Steve Kampfer had battled a
loose puck into the back of the net
for the game-tying goal, complet-
ing a comeback from a three-goal
deficit and drawing comparisons
to last year's Frozen Four game

between the two teams.
"They called the goal off, so I
wasn't really getting my hopes up,"
Palushaj said. "Since we haven't
been to overtime this year, I don't
think it went through most of our
heads (that we might)."
And because Michigan hasn't
played an extra pefiod all season,
it logically hasn't competed in a
shootout, either.
The conference decided to
institute the shootout because it
needed a tie-breaking procedure
for the CCHA standings. The team
that wins the shootout gains an
extra point - making it equiva-
lent to a regular or an overtime
victory. Coaches voted and league
officials agreed that an NHL-style,
three-player shootout would be
crowd-pleasing and less draining
on players than endless overtime
periods.
Each Wednesday in practice, the
players divide and compete against
one another in a mock shootout.
But Berenson doesn't think a prac-
tice environment simulates the
pressure of a game-deciding shot
in a hostile arena.
"You try to create some compe-
tition," Berenson said. "But still,
I couldn't tell you for sure who's
going tobe good in a shootout until
they actually do it in a game."
Palushaj, the captain's poll
favorite, and fellow sophomore
forward Carl Hagelin are likely
selections for a shootout. Players
seem to enjoy Wednesday shoo-
touts, always teasing teammates
who miss and cheering players
who score.
This weekend's opponent, Lake
Superior State, has the experi-
ence in shootouts that Michigan
lacks. The Lakers have been in six
overtime games and are tied for
most in the conference. And while
that could give them an edge in a
potential extra frame or pressure-
packed shootout, the Wolverines
aren't worried.
"They've been in them, and we
haven't been in their," Berenson
said. That doesn't concern me.
We're playing to win every game,
not to tie."

4

FILEANDAPPHOToS
From left to right: The Wolverines lost to No.1i's UCLA in 2006, Duke in02001, Illinois in 2005 and Ohio State in 2007. They will face No .1Connecticut this Saturday.
No. 1 No. 1 No.1 No.1No.1
Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Duke Kentucky
LOSS LOSS LOSS LOSS LOSS
80-58 89-64 72-57 100-93 84-
N0.1 1 No 1 No. 1 No. 1
UCLA * Indiana Indianaf Indiana f Indiana
LOSS LOSS LOSS LOSS LOSS
90-77 74-48 80-74 72-67 OT 6
NoNo0. 1 No.l No. * No.1
Duke f Duke f Indiana , Duke Duke
LOSS LOSS LOSS WIN LOSS
88-85 OT 71-51 93-92 81-73 104-6
No.1 No.1 No.1l No.1 -No.1
Duke Illinois UCLA Ohio State Connecut
LOSS LOSS LOSS LOSS
104-83 57-51 92-55 65-61 0
What's wrong with recruiting?
Theprocess, not the players

HOLLAND -
When wide receiver Roy
Roundtree decom-
mitted from Purdue
in favor of Michigan on National
Signing Day last year, he drew the
ire of Boilermaker football coach
Joe Tiller.
"If we had an early signing date,
you wouldn't
have another
outfit with a
guy in a wiz-
ard hat sell-
ing snake oil
to get a guy at
the last min-
ute, but that's DAN
what hap- FELDMAN
pened," Til- _
ler told the
Indianapolis Star last February.
You probably won't hear any
coaches blast A.J. Westendorp or
Nader Furrha today, the first day
high school football recruits can
sign National Letters of Intent.
Westendorp is a senior at Hol-
land Christian, and Furrha gradu-
ated from Ann Arbor Pioneer last
month. Both were excellent high
school quarterbacks and will play
at the collegiate level next year --
Westendorp at Central Michigan
and Furrha at Michigan.
Although neither verbally com-
mitted anywhere, both called the
coaches at the other schools that had
recruited them once they decided
to go elsewhere. It wasn't hard for
them. It was the right thing to do.
Roundtree didn't call Tiller,
and the redshirt freshman said at
Michigan Media Day last summer
that he regrets it.
Dissecting how the recruiting
process has changed, several pun-
dits have criticized "kids these
days" for being disloyal. The Mich-
igan football team has already had
seven players back out of verbal
commitments, and it'd be pretty
surprising if at least one more
didn't today. Schools all around the
nation have had similar issues.
But fixing the kids isn't the way
to solve the problem. The bet-
ter answer is ensuring high-end
recruits go through a lower-pres-
sure process like Westendorp and
Furrha, who had a single Division
I offer between them. Although the
rules for Division II recruiting aren't
different, the practices clearly are.
Westendorp says his strength is
scoring touchdowns, and his num-
n 0%

bers certainly back that up. He's not
the fastest, and he's not the biggest,
but he threw 40 touchdowns (with
just four interceptions) and ran for
another 25 this year while leading
his team to a state title.
Most of his interest came from
DivisionIIschools.Themostuncon-
ventional element he encountered
in the recruiting process was Grand
Valley State coach Chuck Martin
stopping by his house to pick up a
highlighttape and askinghimnotto
take an official visit to North Dakota
State. Hardly sinister.
But Westendorp spent most of
his time in the process waiting for
a Division I offer. He finally got it
Sunday, and he will attend Central
Michigan.
Furrha grew up so close to
Michigan Stadium that he proba-
bly would have heard the cheers on
football Saturdays had he not been
at the games.
Division II powerhouse Grand
Valley State also pursued him. He
weighed his options and opted to
walk on at Michigan. It wasn't a
drawn-out public affair. He follows
recruiting, sees players waver in
their commitment to the Wolver-
ines and wonders how hard it is to
make a decision.
Well, it's hard because the pro-
cess is so screwed up. I'm sick of
everyone putting the blame on'
recruits not being mature enough
to honor their commitments.
Are Westendorp and Furrha
better people than all the recruits
nationwide who decommit, or are
there other factors for the recruits
who have multiple options with-top
schools?
Our generation isn't the problem.
It's the way recruiting is set up.
It's in a recruit's best interest to
commit early, even if he's not sure
he's want to attend that school.
By verbally committing, at least in
theory, a school will hold a scholar-
ship for him.
But that isn't always the case.
South Carolina coach Steve Spur-
rier pulled a scholarship offer from
a committed recruit, according to
Palmetto Sports. Spurrier found
better recruits and cast the lesser
player aside.
The NCAA needs to take a few
steps to ensure these tricks don't
spiral out of control:
1. Give recruits the option of
signing a. non-binding letter of
intent at any time. A recruit and a

school can agree to hold a schol-
arship, and the player wouldn't be
allowed to have contact with any
otherschools.
If a player wants to re-open his
recruitment, he could formally 4
rescind the letter. The school
couldn't void it unless the recruit
has disciplinary problems.
This way, schools and recruits
know exactly where they stand.
Players couldn't hold a spot while
flirting with other schools, and
coaches can't pull the rug out from
under recruits.
2. Eliminate oversigning. More
and more, schools are signing more
players than they have room for
under the NCAA's 85-scholarship
limit. It always seems to work out
because someone doesn't qualify
academically or someone isn't
cleared medically to play.
But that leaves coaches in the
position of needing some of their
players to fail. Coaches should have
to show the available scholarships
for every letter of intent, binding or
non-binding.
An added benefit is coaches
would give preference to players
they know would qualify academi-
cally.
3. Guarantee scholarships for
four years. Currently, scholar-
ships are granted on a year-to-year
basis. This would also help stop
coaches from oversigning since
they wouldn't be able to jettison
older players to make room for new
recruits.
4. Investigate and punish. No
set of rules will work if the NCAA
doesn't actively seek out offenders
and discipline them.
These suggestions are not origi-
nal, and they're pretty straight-
forward. But until these or similar
measures are implemented, college
football recruiting will continue to
be a mess.
Recruiting used to be annoying.
It's quickly becoming unbearable.
The NCAA needs to take action
and give top recruits the chance to
show the class of Westendorp and
Furrha.
Although not calling Tiller was a
mistake, Roundtree isn't necessar-
ily a worse personthan Westendorp 4
and Furrha. The other two justben-
efited from goingthrough a simpler,
less-stressful recruiting process.
- Feldman can be reached
atdanfeld@umich.edu


w ,. _ .r

lqw ._ -_ -. IRW


Personal Statement
The tantric New York Times ByBrianTengel

friend of mine once told me
that reading the Sunday
ew York Times was better
than sex.
Being unfamiliar with the paper
at the time, I couldn't validate his
statement. But it gave me pause.
The Sunday Times must really be
something, I thought, if he's argu-
ing that it's better than sex. So I
started reading to find out.
Originally, I bought the paper
every Sunday at Starbucks on State
Street. But this became too risky -
if I showed up any later than noon,
I'd walk in and find an empty news-
stand, an experience that left me
paralyzed with rage and despair. To
prevent any health complications, I
soon switched to home delivery.
It Now, I walk outside my apart-
ment every Sunday morning at
about 11 a.m. to get the paper. The
heart palpitations begin immedi-
ately. "It better be there, it better be
there," I murmur under my breath,
as if this chant will somehow guar-
antee that my paper has been deliv-
ered. As anyone with a subscription
will tell you, a delivery is anything
but certain.
On those blessed days when I get
the paper, I take it inside and glance
at the content to whet my appetite.
Then, I make a pot of coffee, put on
my beige slippers and go to work. A
LUNDBERG
From Page 5B
ment's payout, or the percentage of
money that's taken out each year
for use by the University.

feeling of utter bliss soon sets in.
And so I've become addicted to
the knowledge the paper provides.
Without it, I feel shamefully igno-
rant of what's happening in the
world. I feel stranded in Ann Arbor,
enclosed in the bubble of academia.
The paper is my antidote to obliv-
ion.
Three years after I first held the
Sunday Times in my hands, I've
realized that my friend's claim
reflects an impassioned reverence
for the art of print journalism and
an enthusiasm for the power of
ideas in shaping society.
But I've also realized something
else - reading the Sunday paper is
perhaps not so unlike having sex.
Both are an art to be pursued with
patience and dedication.
Just as there are different sex
techniques, there are different
techniques for reading the Sunday
Times. And in both cases, some
techniques are much more suc-
cessful than others. It takes time
to discover what works and what
doesn't. If you're impatient, in both
cases things are bound to go less
than smoothly.
Since I've been reading the Sun-
day Times, I've worked tirelessly to
come up with a way to peruse the
entire paper in a reasonable amount
of time (three hours).
The endowment currently pays
out 5 percent of its average market
value each year to the University for
operating costs, financial aid and
other expenditures. At the time of
Lundberg's proposal, the time span
taken into account when calculat-

First
on the f
way, Il
most im
in und
of theI
front pa
the In
W
be
Report
and firs
I the
day St
myself'
reviews
tion, wi
latest t
once ha
intrigui
love of
him fr(
sports
tennisc
misfort
about n
their ca
Next

,I read every word of text and Sports sections, none of which
ront page of the paper. That I spend much time reading. In fact,
have a sense of what's the I mostly just glance at the pictures.
aportant news, which helps I'd feel guilty if I didn't at least
erstanding other sections look.
paper. Once I've read the I spend virtually all my time
ge, I move quickly through reading the Book Review, the Week
ternational and National in Review and the Sunday Maga-
zine. For me, these three sections
constitute the cornerstone of the
hy reading the Sunday Times. They represent the
climax of my week, an orgasm of
imes may be incisive news analysis and literary
reviews. On some wintry Sunday
:tter than sex. mornings, these sections are the
only reason I get out of bed.
In the Book Review, I start with
the cover article and then read each
s, scanning the headline successive review. There's one ele-
t paragraph of each article. ment of the Book Review, though,
n tackle the Arts and Sun- that makes it indispensable: since
yles. For Arts, I restrict the reviews are so comprehensive,
to reading the major movie it becomes unnecessary to actually
. The Sunday Styles see- read the books themselves. When
hich features articles on the you're short on both time and
rends, can be hit or miss. I money, this proves really helpful.
d the pleasure of reading an For the Week in Review, I read
ing piece on how Obama's the feature stories first, then the
f basketball distinguishes political cartoons and opinion
om past presidents, whose pieces. Of the four Sunday colum-
of choice have often been nists, I find two essential: Thomas
or golf. But I also had the Friedman on foreign policy and the
une of reading an article environment, and Nicholas Kristof
sen who are obsessed with on humanitarian problems. The
ts. other two, Maureen Dowd and
t come the Business, Travel Frank Rich, are liberal satirists

whose ranting can become trite
after a few columns.
In the Sunday Magazine, I first
read "The Way We Live Now," a
column on current events and cul-
tural trends. I then read the weekly
interview, which typically features
a prominent person in politics (Karl
Rove) or the arts (Sheryl Crow).
Next comes William Safire's col-
umn, "On Language," in which he
examines the etymology of words
that are often used in the media.
Finally, I read the cover story,
which is almost always relevant
and illuminating.
So that's what I do for three
hours every Sunday. Yes, it's time-
consuming. Yes, the whole endeav-
or may seem a bit strange. But that's
how I remind myself that there's
more to life than homework. Read-
ing the Sunday Times is my reward
for all those sleepless nights spent
studying at the UGLi. It's a remind-
er'that I can learn without being
graded and that an intellectual dia-
logue exists outside the classroom.
The Sunday Times may or may
not be better than sex. But if you
haven't had much luck at Score-
keepers lately, it might be worth a
try.
-Brian Tengel compiles The
Junk Drawer for The Statement
man or Lloyd Carr. He has culti-
vated a renowned investment team,
consistently grown the total value
of the endowment and implemented
measures to protect the endowment
fromcrises.And with his impressive
track record, he has helped encour-
age more giving to the University,
illustrated by the $3.1-billion Mich-
igan Difference fundraising cam-
paign, which is-the largest ever for
an U.S. public university.
But you won't hear Lundberg talk
about his legacy. He is too invested
in his job at the moment to think
about how he will be remembered
after he leaves it. This October will
mark 10 years since Lundberg came
here. Hearing him talk, he could
still be CIO for another decade or
two.
"Before I got here, it was, you
know, 'Where am I going to next?
Where am I going next?'" he said.
"But now it's, 'I don't want to go
anywhere else. I'm happy here.'
This is a great institution. A great
place to work."


i

18 Congrats!.
January Mtarch 2
ry MiP: Anything metal
U-M placed 4th in overall can be placed in the
toal tonnage of reclablescontainer bin, like old
total t nb nails and staplers!
But 56th overall for the recycling percentage!
$0 COME ON, MICHIGAN!
INCREASE YOUIR RECYCLING!
University of Michigan Waste Management Services
www.recycleumich.edu

ing the average market value for the
5-percent payout was three years.
But to better shield the endow-
ment from volatility in the market,
Lundberg proposed extending that
average market value calculation to
seven years. The longer-term fore-
cast would keep the payout consis-
tent from year to year, regardless
of financial market behavior, and
allow University operations that
use endowment funds to confident-
ly plan for a fixed amount of funding
each year. Lundberg's payout plan
was given the go-ahead, and was
instituted at beginning of the 2006
fiscal year. And today, as many uni-
versities make painful budget cuts
due to decreasing funds from their
endowment, the seven-year payout
has allowed funding for University
operations to stay consistent.
In retrospect, what was so
impressive about implementing a
seven-year average market value
was Lundberg's prudence to do
so in the midst of an overwhelm-
gly bull market. "It's easy to be

complacent when things are going
well, but, you know, we know that
markets will go up and they will
go down," Lundberg said. "And so
when markets go up, it's a good time
to take action and look out and say,
'What could possibly happen?"'
LUNDBERG WILL BE the first
to tell you that crises like the burst-
ing of the dot-com bubble in 2001 or
the fallout on Wall Street this sum-
mer aren't nearly as destructive to
a university endowment as they're
made out to.be. That's because a
major university endowment, like
the University's, is invested in per-
petuity for an infinite amount of
time. There's no end date for the
endowment and no terminating
point when allassets are sold off.
Barring any unforeseen disasters,
the endowment will be around for
as long as the University.
With that in mind, Lundberg's
legacy as the first CIO, though not
as easily seen, could be far more
lasting than that of Mary Sue Cole-


-W mw



WedesayFeruay , 00O

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
ManagingEditor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Hillary Ruffe
Cover photo:
Chanel Von Habsburg-
Lothringen
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

new rules
rule 179: It's
acceptable to
keep your socks
on during sex in
this weather.
rule 180:
Throwing all your
plastic bottles
in a bin labeled
"newspaper only"
doesn't make you
a good environ-
mentalist.
rule 181: It's
fine to have your
guilty pleasure
TV shows. It's
not OK to watch
the same epi-
sode of "The Real
Housewives of
Orange County"
more than once.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

jr the beaten pathB

But tempted by cheaper trav-
el costs and better exchange
rates, more students are getting
adventurous or creative with
their study abroad experiences.
The 2008 Open Doors study,
an annual report on study abroad
trends published by the Insti-
tute of International Education,
found that the overall popular-
ity of "non-traditional" destina-
tions like Asia, Africa and Latin

American surged last year. From
2007 to 2008, the numbers of
American students studying in
China, South Africa and India all
grew by more than 20 percent.
Below are just a few of the
more unconventional options
offered by the University, from
study "abroad" trips you won't
need a passport for to remote
locations on the other side of
the globe.

v Kelly Fraser

kE ABROAD
Lakota territories in the Quebec, Canada

Khon Kaen, Thailand
Through a program administered
by the Council on International Edu-
cational Exchange, University stu-
dents can spend a semester studying
the Thai language and national
issues including political and envi-
ronmental tensions- fieldwork that
has certainly grown more intense
given the country's recent political
turmoil. Khon Kaen, in central Thai-
land, wasn't a part of the eruptions of
sometimes-violent anti-government
demonstrations this summer and fall
that, at one point, forced the closure
of both of Bangkok's airports and
portions of the capital's government
district. When a court banned Thai
Prime Minster Somchai Wongsawat
from politics in early December, the
protests dissolved and the airports
were re-opened.

Tibet
In past years, the University's
Department of Asian Languages
and Cultures occasionally organized
summer tours of the region, but the
program is currently postponed indefi-
nitely until the political climate of the
region calms down. The autonomy
of region has long been contested -
Tibet's spiritual leader, the DalaiLama,
has lived in exile since1959. These ten-
sions most recently boiled over last
March when protests turned devolved
into a riot violent and ended with the
Chinese government instating martial
law in the region.
The last University trip was in 2007
when students and faculty toured
monasteries and the countryside on
tourist visas, said Nicole Baker, the
department's graduate program coor-
dinator.

Walpole Island, home of the Bke-
jwanong First Nation, a community
of a few thousand native people,
is just a two-hour drive from Ann
Arbor. Located on the opposite
shore of Lake St. Clair, Walpole
Island is practically shouting dis-
tance from metro Detroit. The trip,
which is sponsored through the tn i-
versity's Global Intercultural Experi-
ence for Undergraduates Program,
is now in the planning stages for this
May. During their four-week stay
on the island, students will work
primarily with Bkejwanong youth,
learning about Ojibwe culture and
the island's ecology.

Dakotas
Similar to the Bkejwanong First
Nation trip, GIEU students will also
have the opportunity to spend a
month this summer on the Lakota
reservation - 1,000 square miles
of unrecognized territory covering
parts of the Dakotas, Nebraska,
Wyoming and Montana. Under
the direction of Engineering Prof.
Kim Kearfott, students will work
witfh area nonprofit organizations
to measure and assess the dan-
gers of radiation levels caused by
a long history of uranium mining
in the region.

The University's five-week sum-
mer program with Universite Laval
is a popular choice with French
students who don't have an entire
summer to spend abroad or stu-
dents who don't want to shell out
the big bucks to cover the high cost
of living in Paris. And although a
plane ticket is probably the most
practical, if you always longed to
take a road trip through Ontario,
here's your chance. The campus
in Quebec City is just a short 12.5-
hour drive away. That's closer than
Orlando, Fla.

4


COLDER THAN MICHIGAN

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
UNGLASSES
Yand. more classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTs has expanded its
2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.A
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses.

TELL
HOW
TO
LIVE
Submit new rules to
vosgerchian@michigandaily.com

ABROAD ABOARD
Semester at Sea voyages earn students between 12
Who says studying abroad and 15 credits and dock at about a
requiresalocationonlandSemester dozen ports across the globe. The
at Sea, a study abroad program with Spring 2010 cruise includes stops in
a reputation for luxury, is run from a Ensenada, Mexico; Chennai, India;
state-of-the-art cruise ship complete Naples, Italy; and Southampton,
with air conditioning, a England. But the
piano bar and program comes
a swimming with a big price
l. The -- tag - cabins
approxi- , -on the Spring
matelythree- - .voyage begin at
month-long $22,395.

o

IN-
20
.., is
r'
{
L Wwp

Russia (Moscow, St.
Petersburg, Yaroslavl or
Irkutsk)
The University has paired up with
several other colleges to offer stu-
dents multiple study abroad loca-
tions in Russia, including universities
in Moscow and St. Petersburg. But
if you're looking for a change of cli-
mate from grey Ann Arbor, kseep
searching. With high temperatures
hovering somewhere in the mid-20s
Fahrenheit during the winter months
in every single city is likely to be just
as chilly as Ann Arbor during a bad
week in February.
Scandinavia (Sweden,
Finland)
The University participates in
three different programs in the
region, including partnerships with


The Wednesday, 2009

w w w.

lomr- - low

WdedyFeray42009I

G aL

",
' 1
; s v, +ax:e. >;xvrc ac+, : .aassa : ;;. sa e.,a z r .c .

ABOUT CAMPUS

.,.01[3I
INI


QUOTES OF THE WEEK
Needless to say, the eighth
was a surprise to us all,
but a blessing as well."'
- KAREN MAPLES, a doctor at the Kaiser
Permanente Bellflower Medical Center in Cali-
fornia, delivering a statement from the uniden-
tified mother who gave birth to octuplets last
week. According to the woman's mother, she
already has six children aged 2 to 7 years old

"Perhaps after 34 years, it's
time for us to confess we
invented 'cello scrotum.'"
- ELAINE MURPHY, a prominent British doctor,
admitting in a letter to the British Medical Journal
that she and her husband lied about the existence
of 'cello scrotum,' which they claimed was an ail-
ment that could result from cellists repeatedly
rubbing the instrument against their genitals. They
wrote the original letter in 1974, and decided to
confess after a recent article discussed the ailment


M

ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN OQUIST

Back to school charcoal editorial cartoons, ink-pen
Th elwhpthat lets pro renderings of journalism bigwigs
Theafellowship and atableholdingeverymajorpub-
journalists attend classes lication you can think of, Wallace
House radiates journalism.
It's sort of like a movie about a The work of Pulitzer Prize-win-
successful, career-oriented person ning political cartoonist Patrick
who, stuck in a rut and tired of rou- Oliphant cover the walls on the first
tine, gets the chance to go back to floor. Caricatures of a big-toothed
school and start all over again. Sarah Palin and a curvaceous Hil-
You mighthave seenthem in your lary Clinton hang above the couch.
psychology lecture or your sports Over the fireplace is a big-eared ren-
management class. They sit near dering of President Obama on the
the front and chat jokingly with the face of a nickel, and in the corner is
professors as if they know a secret an image of Henry Kissinger's head
we could only figure out with time on a plated fish.
and experience. ThehouseisnamedforMikeWal-
* They're the Knight-Wallace lace, a University alum who worked
Fellows - a group of mid-career as a correspondent on "60 Minutes".
journalists who take off one aca- Wallace and the Knight Foundation,
demic year to attend classes and do which gives grants to foster the field
research at the University - and if of journalism, founded the fellow-
you listen, they could teach you a ship about 30 years ago.
thing or two. Along with the posh hangout,
Each year, about two dozen jour- the Fellows enjoy the company
nalists from around the world are of colleagues hailing from major
accepted into the fellowship, which publications across the world. It's
allows them to audit University just like the social dynamic of the
classes and go to school for the sake dorms, except no one has to sneak
of learning and growing rather to buy alcohol and everyone has
than the grade. more totalk about than high school
"(It has) given me a chance to memories.
take a step back from journalism, "There's sort of like a "Real
and get back to the day to day, use World" or"Survivor" dynamic to it,"
my brain in different ways," said said Knight-Wallace Fellow Rona
Knight-Wallace Fellow Richard Kobell, a reporter for The Baltimore
Deitsch, who is a special projects Sun. "You put 12 people from differ-
editor at Sports Illustrated. ent backgrounds together and see if
The Fellows are able to audit any they can get along."
class- some take the chance to actu- Knight-Wallace Director Charles
ally study rocket science without Eisendrath has seen many a Fellow
the risk of failing - but the official come and go, but said what always
reason for their stays are individual remains is the family-like chem-
research projects. istry of the house, including the
Having covered the 2008 Beijing funny moments.
Olympics, Deitsch is now stepping "When we first got the grand
back to analyze the dynamics of piano donated, (we) went to pick it
the games. But for many of the Fel- up at a little recording studio with
lows, anything they could see here a U-Haul and a case of beer, just a
must pale in comparison to some of bunch of Fellows," he said. "When
their experiences on the job - like we got it into the house, no one
being inside the hole that Saddam really thought about how much a
Hussein was found in, which Robin piano weighed, and it went right
Pomeroy experienced as a corre- through the floor,"
spondent for Reuters. It might seem like a dozen glo-
Fellows generally take up private betrotting journalists would tire of
sublets around Ann.Arbor, but when life in a college town, but many of
they're not rubbing elbows with stu- the Fellows said they've taken to
dents, they meet up at the historic Ann Arbor.
Wallace House on Oxford Road. "I've just been impressed by it,"
Adorned with decades-old pho- Deitsch said. "It's just less sleepy
tographs of past Fellows, large than I thought it would be. Reminds

f1
r
IL5TAI5 YLUA5AA/5I

TALKING
POINTS.
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Unpaid taxes
2. Iraqi elections
3. Stimulus packages
And three things you can't:
1. Obama sans suit jacket
2. Rod Blagojevich
3. Bong-hitting Phelps

"Ah, fundamentally true. The specifics aren't quite right."
- TED HAGGARD, founder of New Life Church, responding to Larry King about allegations made
by Grant Haas, a 25-year-old man who said that Haggard masturbated next to him in a hotel bed in
2006. Haggard resigned from New Life in 2006 after admitting to having sex with a male prostitute

me a little bit of New York in that
whatever you're passionate about,
you can find it here.
"But the weather sucks," he
added.
Some of the Fellows said it could
be a little jarring to don a book bag
for the first time in decades and
walk into a classroom where even
the lecturer seems to be younger
than you.
Kobell was not surprised that
the presence ofther and the Fellows
on campus confuses some Univer-
sity students.
"When I went to school here,
the fellowship wasn't very known,"
she said.
Deitsch, who has written for
Sports Illustrated for 12 years, said
the introductory creative writ-
ing workshop he took was a novel
experience.
"We had to write and get our work
workshopped around the room," he
said. "What's more fun than get-
ting ten 20-year-old girls telling you
what's wrong with your writing?"

Pomeroy, a Rome correspondent
for Reuters, took a screenwriting
class and realized just how differ-
ent his life experiences have been
compared to the average University
student.
"I've heard a couple oftheirscript
ideas, and it's very interesting to see
what they write about," he said. "I'm
not American. I'm not 20 years old.
And there's just such a huge differ-
ence. They write about kids in high
school or kids in high school who've
just come to University."
The fellows attend a seminar
at Wallace House twice per week.
Such notable speakers as Madeleine
Albright, Bill Cosby, Ira Glass, Steve
Forbes, Michael Moore and Gloria
Steinem have given talks beside the
house fireplace.
There are similar programs as
this at Stanford and Harvard, but
the University of Michigan's fellow-
ship stands out for its emphasis on
travel. Each class of Fellows takes
two domestic and two international
trips. Already this year, the Fellows

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
have been to Buenos Aires and sat
down to talk with Argentinean Vice
President Julio Cobos. Later this
month, they'll be in Moscow and
chat with Mikhail Gorbachev, the
last president of the Soviet Union.
One thing to be noted of the
Fellows is their cultural and jour-
nalistic. Former Fellows include
journalists like Jill Abramson, a
managing editor The New York
Times, and ABC News anchor
Charles Gibson.
This year's Fellows hail from
publications like the BBC and The
Washington Post and from as far
away as Madrid, Moscow, Prague,
Buenos Aires, London, Seoul and
Israel.
It might confuse the typical
University student who's itching
to study abroad in Italy, but Pome-
roy said he has enjoyed the change.
from his normal post in Rome.
"Already it is life-changing, and
I've only been here three weeks,"
he said.
-ZENAIDA RIVERA

BY THE NUMBERS
Number of people in Zimbabwe who have
been infected with cholera
Number of people in Zimbabwe who have died
from cholera since August 2008
Amount of time, in months, that foreign doctors and nurses in
Zimbabwe have been on strike due to salary complaints
Source: CNN

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
A vegetable orgy
For some people, half the fun of
watching the Super Bowl last Sunday
was seeing the new commercials that
companies paid millions of dollars
to roll out. This adtthough, wasn't
among them. And that may or may
not be a bad thing.
This video presents a commercial
sponsoredbyPETA,the animalrights
organization, that NBC banned from
airing on Sunday. Let's just say that
it may encourage all those carnivo-
rous football fans to reconsider their
views of vegetarianism.
With a heavy metal guitar riff
slowly building in the background,
the video starts by showing three
different scantily-clad women seduc-
tively undressing themselves. Once
they're wearing nothing but lacy bras
and panties, the music climaxes and
the debauchery begins.
The women each start caressing
and fondling different vegetables.
One woman rubs a stalk of broccoli
up her leg, another provocatively
licks the curvaceous side ofa pump-
kin. The third woman pretends she's
thrustingasparagusintoherself.Dur-
ing this vegetable orgy, the women
are illuminated by the soft glow of
candles. And halfway through the
video, a message appears: "Studies
show vegetarians have better sex."
Pamela Anderson is a PETA activ-
ist, so perhaps this ad isn't so odd.
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos of the week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Welcome back, Kwame! - Kwame Kilpatrick,
Detroit's favorite felon and former mayor, was
released from the clinker Tuesday after 99 days in
an isolated cell. Kilpatrick has already high-tailed it
to Dallas, but you can still celebrate with a Kwame-
style party of your own. Get out the champagne and
the motorcycles. Make a stripper disappear. Then
claim the expense on your income tax. Remember,
it's not a party unless it's on the taxpayers' dime.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Boys with unpopular names more likely to be felons
Boys in the United States with less popular names' like Ernest or
Ivan are more likely to commit crimes than boys with popular names
like Michael or David, according to a study recently published in the
Social Science Quarterly by researchers from Shippensburg University
in Pennsylvania.
In the study, the researchers examined the first names of male
juveniles compared with the first names of male juvenile delinquents.
Then, they generated a popularity-name index (PNI) for certain names.
Michael, for example, has a PNI of 100, meaning that it was the most
popular name during the time of the study. David has a PNI of50. Names
like Alec, Earnest, Ivan, Kareem and Malcolm all have a PNI of one.
The researchers concluded that juveniles with unpopular names are
more likely to engage in crime, regardless oftheir race.While unpopular
names obviously don't cause crime, researchers said, they often result in
social isolation that canlead to crime.
- BRIAN TENGEL



NW low

The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, February 4, 2009

Wednesday, February 4, 2009 -The Michigan Daly

I

Erik Lundberg is the biggest name on
campus that you don't know. As chief
investment officer, he oversees the
University's multi-billion-dollar
endowment. And in the midst of a financial
crisis, he has never been more needed.
By Andy Kroll
Daily Investigative Editor
The most important office in the entire
University of Michigan system isn't
even on University property. About a
mile from the Ann Arbor campus, it's at the
cornerofHuron Street and Main Street, where
a towering, angular office building looms large
over the city's business district.
In a fifth floor suite of that building, ateam
of finance specialists in the University Invest-
ment office are hard at work managing the
school's vast investment portfolio. The largest
of these is the University's multi-billion-dollar
endowment - a portfolio of over 6,000 differ-
ent investments in stocks, bonds, venture capi-
tal, real estate and energy, among others - and
the school's financial backbone.
At the entrance to the Investment Office is
a glass door that bears the University seal, a
reminder of nearly 200 years of history. And
it's the job of the investors on the other side of
that door to lay the financial groundwork for
another couple centuries of maize and blue.
Leading that team is Erik Lundberg, the
University's 49-year-old, Norwegian-born
chief investment officer.
Since arriving in Ann Arbor in the fall of
1999, Lundberg has transformed a relative-
ly modest portfolio into one of the leading
endowments in all of higher education. Before
the collapse of the financial markets last fall,
Lundberg had more than tripled the value of
the endowment - from $2.5 billion in 1999 to
$7.6 billion as of June 30. For the 2007 fiscal
year, the endowment recorded a return of over
25 percent, one of the highest in the country.
In annual rankings published by the National
Association of College and University Business
Officers, the University's endowment climbed
from13th overall and 4th among public schools
in 2002 to 8th and 2nd, respectively, in 2007.
The success in investing couldn't have come
at a better time. State appropriations, once
a substantial and reliable source of funding,
have decreased more than $96 million in the
past seven years when measured for inflation
- meaning that the University must rely on its
endowment more than ever before.
Lundberg is the one who must guide the
University through the current financial crisis,
guarding the endowment against depletion at
a time when donors are tightening their belts
and the stock market is wrought with uncer-
tainty. It's a difficult job and the University has
not ridden through the recession unscathed.
Since the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1,
the endowment has lost an estimated 20 to 30
percent of its value. But with the economy as it
is it's to Lundberg's credit that the University
wasn't hit harder andsooner. The endowments
of other major universities can attest to that -
in June 2007, when the University recorded a
6.4 percent on its investments, large endow-
ment funds lost an average of 4.4 percent.
J. Ira Harris, a veteran investor and long-
time member of an external investment com-
mittee that advises the chief investment officer

and investment team, says Lundberg's job is
paramount to the success of the University.
"There are a very important number of jobs
at Michigan, including the president, includ-
ing the head football coach and including the
chief investment officer," Harris said.
Yet unlike University President Mary Sue
'Coleman or Michigan football coach Rich
Rodriguez, Lundberg keeps a low profile on
campus.,He tends to stick to his downtown
office - that is, when he's not on the road,
meeting investing partners and fund manag-
ers from throughout the world.
Nor does he fit "master of the universe"
financial guru image, either. Over two inter-
views in October and January at the Invest-
ment Office, Lundberg spoke with me about
his job, how the endowment works and his
thoughts on the future of the financial mar-
kets. In each interview, his modest, laid-back
tone and impression (he prefers sport jackets
with khakis or jeans over suits) belied the sub-
ject of our conversations: billions of dollars of'
investments, a financial crisis crippling the
global economy and the University's future.
His faint Norwegian accent affecting the
occasional word or two, Lundberg described
the composition of the endowment simply,
patiently,.for someone unfamiliar with long-
short trading strategies or derivatives. For
instance, in discussing the endowment's vari-
ous assets classes - the groupings of invest-
ments like stocks or realestate worth hundreds
of millions of dollars each - he referred to
them instead not as complex financial assets
but as "buckets" with money in them.
That modesty, however, understates the
growingimportance ofthe endowment.Today,
the University, quite frankly, could not exist
without it. And it follows that the University
wouldnot be where it istoday without the man
guiding the University endowment.
ALMOST 4,000 MILES fromAnn Arbor lays
the port city of Stavanger, Norway, located on
the country's southwestern coast bordering
the North Sea - territory once occupied by
Vikings. It was in this nearly 1,000-year-old
city founded on industries like shipping, ship-
building, fishing and canning where Lundberg
grew up. And it was with the discovery of oil in
the North Sea off of Norway in the late 1960s
that the futures of both Stavanger and Lund-
berg were transformed.
With money flowing in almost as fast the
newfound oil, Stavanger quickly grew into a
thriving energy hub for all of Europe. Today,
nearly every major oil corporation in the world
- Shell, BP, Exxon Mobil, Total, ConocoPhil-
lips and Norway's Statoil - have operations in
or near the city, and the city website describes
Stavanger as the "energy capital of both Nor-
way and Europe." This influx of wealth and
prosperity to Stavanger provided the city's
young people with the chance to study busi-
ness abroad and then return home, degrees in
hand, to well-paying jobs in the oil industry.
Lundberg followed suit and traveled to
Madison, Wis. as a 20-year-old to study busi-
ness at the University ofWisconsin. But instead
of returning to Norway, he stayed in the U.S.
after meeting his future wife in Madison. He
then went on to earn an MBA in finance and
international business from Ohio State Uni-
versity. When asked about trading Scandina-
via for the Big Ten, Lundberg laughed, saying
that the Midwest was his home now. "I like it
here," he said. "I like public schools; I went to
public schools."

In 1986, after graduating from Ohio State,
he began working in corporate finance at
Wisconsin Bell and later took a job in inves-
tor relations with phone company Ameritech.
Lundberg rose within the company to become
an international equity analyst and then an
investment strategist in Ameritech's pension
department in Chicago. But by that point, he
decided he needed a new challenge. That's
when the University of Michigan, in the midst
of a national search for its first-ever chief
investment officer in 1999, came knocking.
Harris, of the external investment advisory
committee, was workingin Chicago at the time
as an executive for a major private investment
firm, and interviewed Lundberg on behalf of
the University for the CIO position. At the end
of the interview, Harris immediately knew
the search was over. "After spending a couple
hours with him my response back to the peo-
ple in Ann Arbor was if they didn't hire him, I
was going to hire him," Harris said.
University officials took Harris's advice and
hired Lundberg to be the first CIO. He would
be in charge of getting the University's newly
conceived Investment Office off the ground
and responsible for building a new investment
team from scratch. Yet the endowment Lund-
berg and his fresh-faced team took over in the
final few months of 1999, valued at $2.5 billion,
was hardly the robust nest egg it is now.
PRIOR TO LUNDBERG'S ARRIVAL, manage-
ment of the endowment was left to the Uni-
versity's Treasury Office, which traditionally
handles financial operations like debt and risk
management (including University employee
insurance coverage), check writing and over-
sight of the MCard program. Under the Trea-
sury Office's direction, the endowment made
small gains - $1.9 billion in the 10 years before
Lundberg arrived - and measured poorly
against portfolios at comparable universities.
"The University went through a long, long
time years ago with terrible performance in its
investments, in its endowments," Harris said.
University officials knew they needed a bet-
ter performing endowment because, as recent
years had shown, poor endowment perfor-
mance greatly hindered the University's abil-
ity to raise money and court potential donors.
When a donor gives money, the University's
investment tyam generally invests it in hopes
of generating the largest returns possible on
the original donation amount. But when the
endowment was recording poor investment
returns, University fundraisers faced a daunt-
ing task in convincing donors to give.
"Well, the school does such abad job invest-
ing it, I'll invest it and give it to you myself,"
Harris said, recalling a common response he
heard from donors during capital fundraising
campaigns.
All that began to change around the turn
of the century. As the new CIO leading ; new
Investment Office, Lundberg's first major task
was establishing and training a team of ana-
lysts and experts working around him to grow
the endowment. Looking back on Lundberg's
decade as CIO, colleagues say the development
of a top-notch investment group has been one
of Lundberg's main achievements.
University chief financial officer Tim Slot-
tow, who works closely with Lundberg, said
the investment team, which Lundberg almost
single-handedly built and developed himself,
today ranks as one of the top among all uni-
versities public and private. And he did this,
Slottow added, without hiring senior investors

away from elite hedge funds or endowments.
"He's done it rather by hiring, you know, junior
or mid-level analysts, and working with them
to develop their expertise and their ability to
really learn what he does," Slottow said.
For Lundberg, managing an elite invest-
ment team doesn't mean hovering over their
shoulders all the time. Instead, he believes in
givinghis analysts the autonomytosucceed on
their own and to develop individually as inves-
tors. One of his key ingredients for successful
endowment investing, as he described it in an
investment presentation last April, is to "Allow
staff to excel as long term investors."
In terms of strategy, one hallmark of Lun-
dberg's tenure as CIO has been to diversify
the endowment by increasing the number of
investments made abroad. In the nine years
since his arrival, Lundberg and his team have
increased investments in markets like China,
Japan, Hong Kong and Russia. And until the
global financial crisis devalued investments
worldwide, this internationalization of the
endowment reaped dividends for Lundberg
and his investment team, especially due to the
U.S. dollar's decline in comparison with inter-
national currencies.
Within the U.S., Lundberg and his team
have succeeded in investing with some of the
best partners. One such venture capital firm,
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers in Menlo
Park, Calif., is one of the leading green tech-
nology funds in the country, if not the world.
Kleiner was the subject of a New York Times
Magazine cover story in October, and lauded
by The Times as "a temple of capitalism."
No university endowment is immune from
the global financial turmoil. In early Decem-
ber, Harvard announced losses of 22 percent,
or more than $8 billion, to its endowment,
which was valued at $36.9 billion as of June30.
Likewise, the University of California endow-
ment lost $1 billion-in the first nine months of
2008, $700 million of which tanked between
July and the end of September.
The University of Michigan's endowment
has suffered losses, too. By December the
endowment had lost between $1.52 billion and
'$2.28 billion. And it wasn't the first time the
endowment took a hit ina financial crisis.
When the dot-com bubble burst in2000 and
2001, the endowment recorded an first annual
loss of $200 million, dropping from $3.6 to
$3.4 billion - it's first loss in 12 years, and the
firstsince Lundberg's arrival.With the current
financial crisis, however, Lundberg smartly
protected the endowment in the years preced-
ing the recession and lessened the impact such
a crisis would have.
As the full scope of the subprime credit
crisis became apparent in 2006 and 2007,
investments in risky mortgage-backed securi-
ties began suffering huge losses. Unlike other
university that watched their investments in
mortgage-backed securities plummet, Lun-
dberg and his team had deemed such invest-
ments too risky, and avoided what in fact
turned out to be a toxic market. "We didn't get
paid enough for taking that risk," Lundberg
said. "So we steered away from the subprime...
and focused the investments other places."
But Lundberg's most notable move was
changing the way the endowment pays out
money to the University. A little over two
years ago, when the endowment was record-
ing incredible returns, Lundberg came to Slot-
tow with a proposal: He wanted to change the
way the University determines the endow-
See LUNDBERG, Page 8B



