AddEmolkh-
44W 46F
.4f li I an 43 AM
c 40 "Itu

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, February 16, 2009

michigandaily.com

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Congress adds
to Pell Grants

QB Threet to transfer

More than 3,000
University students
benefit from federal
scholarship program
ByBENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
Much of the attention surround-
ing the federal economic stimulus
package has focused on the benefit
it will provide for large, struggling
institutions, like national banks
and domestic automakers.
However, the effects of the stim-
p ulus package could soon be felt by
thousands of students here at the
University.
When Congress passed Presi-
dent Barack Obama's $787 billion
American Recovery and Reinvest-
ment Act on Friday, the Federal
Pell Grant Program -federally
funded scholarships for students
with demonstrated financial need
- received a significant boost in
funding.
For the 2007-2008 academic
year, 3,349 University students
received Pell Grants, totaling over
$9 million in aid with each student
receiving an average of $2,776,
according to Margaret Rodriguez,
senior associate director of the

Office of Financial Aid.
The bill proposes changes to
the program that could increase
both the number of students who
receive grants and the amount of
money students receive.
The federal government grants
between 5 and 6 million scholar-
ships through the Pell Grant pro-
gram each year. That number, and
the number of applicants for the
grants, has increased every year
since 2005, according to the U.S.
Department of Education.
Federal funding for the Pell
Grant program has fluctuated over
the past several years, from $12.35
billion in 2005 to $17.34 billion in
2006, according to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education. In 2008, fund-
ing for grants was $16.26 billion.
The increases in funding per
grant are modest under the bill.
But, the bill includes provisions
for more substantial increases the
future.
Calling for an additional $13.869
billion to be allocated for Pell
Grants in the 2009 and 2010 fiscal
years, the stimulus package will
permit an increase of $281 in indi-
vidual grant money for 2009-2010
and $400 for 2010-2011.
Additionally, the bill will
increase the maximum amount for
individual grants to $5,012. The
See PELL GRANTS, Page 7A

Redshirt freshman
started eight games
last season
By DAN FELDMAN,
COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
and ANDY REID
Daily SportsEditors
Redshirt freshman quarterback
Steven Threet will transfer from
Michigan, according to a state-
ment released early this morning.

"I have decided to transfer
from the University of Michigan,"
Threet wrote in the statement. "I
have requested and received my
release.I do not yet know where I
will continue my collegiate career,
and have no further comment until
that decision is made."
Calls to StevenThreet's cell phone
last night from The Michigan Daily
were not returned. When contacted
last night by the Daily, Threet's
father, Jewel Threet, said his son
would release astatementtoday and
declined further comment.

AnAthletic Departmentspokes-
person also declined to comment
about the statement.
TheWolverines'starterin8-of-12
games last year, Threet transferred
from Georgia Tech prior to the 2007
season. He finished last season 102-
of-200 for 1,105 yards, nine touch-
downs and seven interceptions.
Michigan signed two quarter-
backs, Tate Forcier and Denard
Robinson, on National Signing
Day on Feb. 5. Forcier, a four-star
recruit according to rivals.com,
enrolled early in January and will

practice with the team this spring.
Redshirt sophomores Nick
Sheridan and David Cone are the
only returning quarterbacks on
Michigan's roster. Sheridan start-
ed four games last season. Fresh-
man Justin Feagin, who began last
season at quarterback and moved
to slot receiver, will also return.
Phil Jacobs, Threet's coach at
Adrian High School, said yester-
day he didn't know about Threet's
plan to transfer.
"He's pretty much kept it to
See THREET, Page 7A


VIDEOGAMES IN THE CLASSROOM
'U' course offers
gamer's paradise

Education 222 looks
at role of videogames
in education
By JOHN A. WEISS, JR.
Daily StaffReporter
Staring at a flat-screen televi-
sion, Nintendo 64 controller in
hand, ignoring piles of schoolwork
and replacing it with nine straight
hours of Super Smash Bros., may
not actually be a complete waste of
time.
Thanks to Education 222: Vid-
eogames & Learning, a new class
offered by the School of Education
this winter semester, video game
enthusiasts will now be able to do
homework and play their favorite

game at the same time.
Barry Fishman, associate pro-
fessor of Educational Studies and
Information Sciences, said he start-
ed the class as a way to change how
people view videogames, to help
them understand that they can be
used for more than just late-night
fun.
"The objectives (of the class)
are to give people a different way
to think about videogames, about
learning and about schools," Fish-
man said.
Fishman said videogames are
built off of a rewards system, the
ability to "die" and start a level
again without penalization. This
keeps a player committed to play-
ing, to get to the next level and
eventually beat a game.
See VIDEOGAMES, Page 7A

Officers rope off part of the fourth floor of Van Duren house in Bursley Hall late Friday night after flooding caused damage tothe hallway and nearby rooms.
Flood causes damage to Bursley

Nearly three dozen
students displaced
from rooms after
sprinkler goes off
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
The third and fourth floors of
the Van Duren House in Bursley
Hall are littered with industrial
fans and lined with caution tape,
the lone remains of a flood that
left roughly three dozen students

without a place to stay late Friday
night.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan said the fans are being
used to help soak up the water left
by a damaged sprinkler in one of
the roomson the fourth floor.
Nearly all students displaced
by the flood could return to their
room early Saturday morning,
Logan said, with just the residents
of the two rooms directly connect-
ed to the sprinkler that started the
flood left in temporary housing.
Logan said their rooms should be
ready this week. .
Significant portions of the hall-

ways affected by the water are still
taped off, leavinglimited access to
the 18 damaged rooms.
Around 9:30 p.m. Friday night,
a sprinkler in a room on the fourth
floor of the Van Duren House went
off, flooding the east wings of the
third and fourth floors. The sprin-
klers triggered the fire alarms
throughout the building, and stu-
dents were forced to evacuate.
"It was like brown water every-
where," LSA freshman Anne Ber-
renberger said. "It flooded the
hallway and came into (our) room
through the door."
Berrenberger lives in the room

directly connected to the room
where the flood started, and said
she won't be allowed back into
Bursley until Tuesday.
Berrenberger's roommate, LSA
freshman Jenny Nowierski, said
they have both been staying in a
friend's room since Friday.
All of the residents whoseroons
were not affected by the water
returned to their rooms within a
half hour. Those in the affected
hallways returned to their rooms
around 12:30 a.m. to collect some
of their belongings, but were
advised not to sleep there.
See BURSLEY, Page 7A


NAACP'S 100TH ANNIVERSARY

COMMUNITY R EMEMBERS
Ford School mourns sudden
passing of beloved administrator

Members of the Univensity's chapter of the NA ACP col a reae celebrate the erganization's tDO-year ansiversary en Friday.

Vlcek passed away
after car accident on
way to work Tuesday
By EMILY ORLEY and
STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily Staff Reporters
Yesterday afternoon, mem-
bers of the University community
gathered to honor the life of Faith
Vlcek, a program administrator
in the Ford School of Public Pol-
icy who was killed in a car acci-
dent on her way to work early last
Tuesday.
A memorial service was held at

the Manchester United Methodist
Church, as friends and colleagues
paid their respects to Vlcek, who
worked at the Ford's School Inter-
national Policy Center.
Colleagues remember Vlcek for
her kind spirit, helping hand and
the great impact she had on the
lives of those whso krnew her during
the 10 years she spenut working at
the University.
"She was the hseart and soul of
every place I worked," said Jan
Svejnar, director of the Interna-
tional Policy Center.
Vleek first came to the Universi-
ty to work at the William Davidson
Institute as an executive assistant.
In 2004, she moved to the Faculty

Support group at the Ross School
of Business. She later joined the
Ford School in 2007.
While Vlcek's main responsi-
bilities were to make travel and
event arrangements, Svejnar said
she always went well beyond what
was asked.
"Professorn woculd visit fromru all
over the world," Svejnar said, "anud
mone than just nmaking their travel
arrangements, sire would tarke cute
of that-t."
"She did whatever was needed,"
said Alan Deardorff, associate
dean of the Ford School.
Deardorff said Vleek will be
remembered as a truly warm per-
See VLCEK, Page 7A


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 39 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LO: 31 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newspmichigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The Daily finally joins the crowd on Google News
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM
f wlNinMN~l

INDEX NEWS.........
Vol.CXIX, No.95 SUDOKU.....
02009 The Michigan Daily OPINION....
michigosdeily.com

....................2A A RT S.....
.3A CLASSIFIEDS .
.4A SPORTSMONDAY


4

2A - Monday, February 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


British colleges see application jump

SING ALONG STARS

Faced with dim prospects in
an ever increasingly weak job
market, many British students
have made the decision to
attend college, the Chronicle
of Higher Education reported.
Applications to Universities
in Great Britain are up 8 per-
cent, with a huge influx of that
coming between December
and January.
Applications coming from
students older than 24 greatly
contributed to the spike in
applications, with a 12.6 per-
cent increase despite the fact
that financial aid for adults
has been decreased in recent
years.
NORTHERN ILLINOIS U.
UNVEILS MEMORIAL TO
FIVE STUDENTS KILLED
LAST YEAR
A year after five students

were shot and killed in Cole
Hall at Northern Illinois Uni-
versity, the school announced
plans to create a memorial gar-
den to honor the students, the
Chronicle of Higher Education
reported.
The garden, which will be
constructed east of the build-
ing, will feature five illumi-
nated red-granite panels, each
bearing the name of one of the
victims.
The final design for the gar-
den was chosen from an ini-
tial batch of 200 suggestions
reviewed by a university com-
mittee.
FORMER STUDENTS SUE
EAST STROUDSBURG U. OF
PENNSYLVANIA
One current student and
five former students sued
East Stroudsburg University

of Pennsylvania on Friday,
alleging the university did not
properly investigate a former
vice president who allegedly
made blatant sexual advancesy
toward male students, the
Chronicle of Higher Education
reported.
The suit seeks more than
$50,000 for damages, claiming
Isaac W. Sanders used schol-
arships to get close to young
African-American students
before he then made advances
on them.
"These were boys who were
preyed upon because of the
fact they were from single-
parent households, they were
looking for mentorship. That's
one of the things that hurts the
most," Albert R. Murray Jr., a
lawyer for the plaintiffs told
the Associated Press.
WILL MOELLER/Daily
Students performs at the first annual Taiwanese Student Association
- TREVOR CALERO Karaoke Competition Friday, Feb. 13, 2009.
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

C, C iditioan DAMl
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor is Chief easiness Manoger
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officebours:Sun.-Thurs.lua.m.-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
torrections corrections@michigandaiy.com
Letters to the Editor tohedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0s63
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page - opinion@michigandaiy. com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaiy.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classified@mnichigandaily.com
734-764-0ss7
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitz ManagingNewsEditor smilovit @michigandaily.com
SENIR NEWSEDITORS:JilianBerman,TrevorCalero,Julie RoweLindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
JennauSkoler,aKylenSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutter
AndyReid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDI'TORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandailycom
Clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said AlsalahChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, SamWolson
AngelatChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertising Sales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman,Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski ClassifiedS ales Manager
Classfed Sales sssantManager:Alson Thomas
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDaily(ISSN0745-967)ispublished MondaythroughFridayduringthefalland wine
term yn n studtsatteU iniestyotichian.SOnopisaialt fe eofrtoalre
(September through Apri)via USmailtre$200:Yearroundsubscriptions(Falk Winter,Springand
Summer issues) are $225.Subscriptions must be prepaid.The Michigan Daily is a member of The
AssociatedPressand TheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

U

CRIME NOTES
Suspect steals Hockey puck
table from hits spectato
Oxford Res Hall WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Saturdayat about
WHERE: Oxford Residence p.m.
Hall, Vandenberg House WHAT: A male spectatc
WHEN: Friday at about 3:20 hit with a hockey puck dr
p.m. hockey game, University
WHAT: An unknown suspect reported. He suffered al
stole a patio table, University tion near his right eye an
police reported. The table porarily lost consciousne
was located outside.

Wine-making Toronto band to
r exhibition play at The Ark

t 9:30
:or was
uring a
Police
dacera-
Zd tem-
ess.

WHAT: Prof. Daniel T. Lon-
gone will curate an exhibition
featuring books and ephemera
about the history of American
wine making.
WHO: Arts At Michigan
WHEN: Today from 1:00 - 4:45
p.m.
WHERE: William Clements
Library

Woman assaults Series on
ignitpeientparking worker a and the
ignites fire environment

WHAT: Porkbelly Futures,
a band that plays original
rhythm and blues music. Gen-
eral admission tickets are $15.
WHO: Michigan Union Tick-
et Office
WHEN: Today at 8:00 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
International
lawworkshop
WHAT: In a workshop
intended for non-specialists,
speakers will present for 25
minutes followed by discus-
sion and questions.
WHO: Center for Interna-
tional & Comparative Law
WHEN: Today from 4:00 -
5:15 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Hall
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

1In order to boost his chanc-
es of reelection in July in a
metropolis overwhelmed
with traffic, smog and crimi-
nals, Mexico City Mayor
Marcelo Ebrard is usinguncon-
ventional methods to improve
life for the city's people, The
New York Times reported. For
one, the mayor is giving away
free Viagra to poor men above
age 60.
The Michigan Vision
Party is holding a mass
meeting tonight at 8:00
p.m. in Room 3411 Mason
Hall.
sFOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
According to a scientist
from the University of
Illinois, people living on
tree-lined streets live happier,
healthier lives, United Press
International reported. These
people are also more, likely.
to show better attention and
cognitive function and are less
likely tobe victims of crime.

1

WHERE: Chemistry building
WHEN: Friday at about 4:30
.m.
WHAT: A small fire started
during a research experiment,
University Police reported.
The researcher immedi-
ately put out the fire with an
extinguisher. No damage was
reported.

WHERE: M-18 Carport East
Medical Center
WHEN: Saturday at about 6:00
p.m.
WHAT: A woman threw
money at a parking booth
attendant while paying for
her ticket, University Police
reported. After assaulting the
attendant, the woman immedi-
ately drove away.

WHAT: A special series that
melds science and the arts
together to reconnect viewers
to the natural world. It incor-
porates video, poetry, sound
composition and stone.
WHO: Arts on Earth
WHEN: Today from 12:00 -
6:00 p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Center

OAKicaioinGADedieEiATSeNtVoRFerur MPN
*Application Deadline Etended to Februar 19

r
4

The Indo-U.S. Science and Technology Forum (IUSSTF)
and Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU)
announce a prestigious research-based exchange
program that willprovide opportunities for American
graduate students to conduct research in India.

4

RISE will provide
American Students
- International Professional
Experience
- Enhanced Practical Skills
" Work experience on
international teams
+ Exposure to Indian science
and culture
" Life-long professional networks

Eligibility
" US Citizen
" Open to science, engineering,
technology and medical
disciplines
" Graduate students currently
enrolled at a regionally
accrediated institution of higher
education in U.S.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 16, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
MIDLAND, Mich.
Dow Chemical
plans to sell solar
shingles by 2011
Dow Chemical Co. says it aims to
start selling power-generating roof
shingles by 2011.
The Midland-based chemical
giant has been at work for the past
year on a $50 million project called
Dow Solar Solutions.
The company's scientists and
engineers are working to develop a
product to sell thermoplastic solar
roof shingles throughout North
America.
Dow Chemical is collaborating
with three home builders - Len-
nar Corp. of Miami, Pulte Homes
Inc. of Bloomfield Hills and Prost
Builders Inc. of Jefferson City, Mo.
- and with Tucson, Ariz.-based
Global Solar Energy Inc., a maker
of flexible materials.
The researchers have conduct-
ed numerous tests in preparing
the shingles for market, said Rob-
ert J. Cleereman, senior director
of solar development for Dow
Chemical.
"We've thrown everything you
can imagine at them from (simu-
lated) hail to fire to see how they
react," he told The Saginaw News.
"One day, a person would no more
think about buying a house without
solar shingles than they would buy
a house without plumbing. That is
our hope, at least."
LUBBOCK, Tenas
Peanut growers feel
effects of outbreak
With hundreds of thousands
of Americans out of work and the
economy in a nosedive, the U.S.
peanut industry expected sales to
soar this year.
Americans tend to turn to peanut
products to stretch their food dol-
lars in tough times, avoiding more
expensive protein sources such as
steak and ground beef.
Enter an ongoing salmonella out-
break that has'sickened some 600
people in 43 states and been linked
to nine deaths, and those rosy pre-
dictions after a record growing sea-
son have been dashed.
"They've tainted our entire
industry," said Shelly Nutt, execu-
tive director of the peanut produc-
ers board in Texas, the nation's
second largest growing state
behind Georgia. "Public perception
is killing us."
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.
Northwest plane
diverted, smoke
reported in cockpit
A commuter plane operated by
Northwest Airlines was diverted to
Gerald R. Ford International Air-
port after the pilot reported smoke
in the cockpit.
Flight 2125, a Northwest Air-
link flight operated by Northwest
subsidiary Pinnacle Aviation, had
taken off from Minneapolis and
was headed for Cleveland when

it landed in Grand Rapids about 6
p.m. Sunday.
The 39 passengers were immedi-
ately transferred to another flight
to continue on to Cleveland.
Airport spokesman Phil Johnson
tells The Grand Rapids Press that
the airport experiences "a number
of diversions throughout the year."
The plane was being inspected to
determine the source of the smoke.
A message was left with Northwest
media representatives.
LANSING, Mich.
Analysis: Granholm
has tough path to
fix prison system
Gov. Jennifer Granholm's
ambitious plan to save money
by releasing more prisoners is
doable, but a lot has to go right
for it to work.
Since the number of inmates
exceeded 51,000 almost two years
ago, her administration has low-
ered the population to just over
48,000 through paroles and com-
mutations, a timely drop in felony
convictions and prison intakes, and
an expanded program that aims
to keep parolees from committing
new crimes.
The trend certainly could contin-
ue, but the Michigan Department
of Corrections has a tough path
ahead to reach its goal of reduc-
ing the head count an additional
7 percent by year's end. The last
time Michigan was under 45,000
inmates: 1999.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

University holds its first
Bean Chili Cook-off

Competitors ranged
from rookies to
veteran chili cooks
By SAGAR DESHPANDE
For the Daily
Last Friday, the East Quad caf-
eteria took on a distinctly south-
western flair, becoming the site
for the Residential Dining Ser-
vices Bean Chili Cook-off.
The competitors included
eight dining services employees,
including two students. Several
contestants brought decades of
chili cooking experience to the
competition, and others were
cooking chili for the first time in
their lives.
The contestants were ranked
on their chili dishes by both a
panel ofthree judges and by popu-
lar vote. The dishes were required
to be made from blends of beans
grown in Michigan.
West Quad Kitchen Cleaner
Meena Bajrachanya, a 10-year
chili veteran, took home the
judges' gold with her Himalayan
Spicy Chili, an exotic vegetarian
blend of kidney beans, onions,
green and red peppers and many
spices.
Bajrachanya said she brought

the recipe with her from her
homeland of Nepal.
Joyua Williams, a cook from
Bursley Hall, took home the
"crowd favorite" prize with her
New Orleans Chumbo.
Another 10-year veteran of the
trade, Williams said her recipe
was a personal creation loaded
with hamburger, Italian sausage,
andouille sausage and shrimp.
LSA freshman Annemarie
Friedo said Williams's dish was
one of her favorites.
"A lot of the other chili was
really good," Friedo said, "but
most were too different from tra-
ditional chili to be called chili."
LSA freshman Maddie Con-
way, Friedo's friend and self-
proclaimed chili connoisseur,
completely disagreed.
"The Himalayan didn't look
like a traditional chili, but tasted
like one," she said. Conway also
said that she and her father have
participated in many soup and
chili competitions, adding valid-
ity to her sentiments.
Like many other competitions,
this one wasn't without its share
of underhanded tactics.
"Mysupervisorlied to me,"said
Engineering sophomore and East
Quad server Mischa Veenhuysen.
"I thought I was signing up to be
a judge, and then all of a sudden I

was asked to come up with some
chili."
Veenhuysen said he got the
recipe for his "South of the Diag"
chili from a friend, which he said
he "added a couple of things to."
"It kind of turned out as a bean
dip," he said, "but it still came out
well."
Most in attendance agreed that
the chili cook-off was a welcome
break from the monotony of regu-
lar cafeteria food.
"I think this really helps, it gets
us outofthe mundane," said Engi-
neering sophomore Jack Linkous.
Many students expressed a
desire for other similar events.
"It would be really cool if they
could havea pie-making competi-
tion," Friedo said.
LSA sophomore Rose Partirich
agreed, saying she would "like to
see a cookie or cupcake competi-
tion."
Residential Dining Services is
having a salad competition over
spring break, on Feb. 26th, in
Bursley Hall.
Steve Meyers, executive chef
for Dining Services, said the chili
cook-off could possibly become
an annual event, a popular idea
among students.
"It would be really sweet if
they could do this again," Conway
said.

President Barack Obama exits a vehicle at his house in Chicago yesterday.
Obama to apoint
panel to head auto
recovery efforts

Illinois Senator Burris rebuffs
calls for him to give up his seat

Affidavit contradicts
earlier statements
made by senator
CHICAGO (AP) - Just as Illi-
nois was moving past the agony
and embarrassment offormer Gov.
Rod Blagojevich's ousting, the fel-
low Democrat whom Blagojevich
appointed to the U.S. Senate was
hearing calls for his own resigna-
tion yesterday amid allegations he
lied to legislators.
Freshman Sen. Roland Burris
released an affidavit on Saturday
that contradicts his statements
last month to a House commit-
tee investigating Blagojevich's
impeachment.
"I can't believe anything that
comes out of Mr. Burris at this
point," Rep. Jim Durkin, the
impeachment committee's rank-
ing Republican, said at a news
conference Sunday. "I think it
would be in the best interest of
the state if he resigned because
I don't think the state can stand
this anymore."
But an adamant and sometimes
emotional Burris told reporters
later Sunday that he hadn't done
anything wrong and never misled
anyone.
"I've always conducted myself
with honor and integrity," he said.
"At no time did I ever make any
inconsistent statement."
Gov. Pat Quinn, who advanced
to the governor's mansion after
Blagojevich was ousted over cor-

ruption allegations last month,
also called on Burris to explain
the contradiction.
"My opinion is that he owes
the people of Illinois a complete
explanation," Quinn said, accord-
ing to spokesman Bob Reed.
Durkin and House Republican
Leader Tom Cross also want an
investigation of Burris for pos-
sible perjury.
It's not clear what action state
legislators could now take against
Burris, said Dawn Clark Netsch,
a Northwestern University law
professor and former Illinois
Comptroller.
"I'm not aware that anything
quite like this has happened in
any state before," she said.
Based on federal law, the state
Senate could argue that Burris
was a temporary appointment,
then pass a bill calling for a spe-
cial election to name a permanent
senator, Netsch said.
But Quinn's hands may be tied.
"I don't see anything that the
current governor could do, except
to ask for legislation to ask for a
special election," Netsch said.
Saturday's disclosure by Bur-
ris reflects a major omission from
his testimony in January when
an Illinois House impeachment
committee specifically asked if
he had ever spoken to Robert
Blagojevich or other aides to the
now-deposed governor about the
seat vacated by President Barack
Obama.
"Clearly, it would have been
better if Senator Burris had pro-

vided this information when he
first testified," said Jim Manley, a
spokesman for U.S. Senate Major-
ity Leader Harry Reid, who was
among the Democrats who only
consented to seat Burris on the
belief that there was no chance of
"pay for play" politics surround-
ing Burris' appointment.,
He said Reid "is reviewing the
affidavit and will await any action
by Illinois legislative leaders after
they review the matter."
Manley and Christina Anga-
rola, a spokeswoman for Illinois
Sen. Dick Durbin, both said Sun-
day that Burris informed the
senators of the affidavit on Friday,
but Angarola said Burris didn't
provide a copy.
But Burris explained Sun-
day that he voluntarily gave the
committee a Feb. 4 affidavit dis-
closing the contact with Robert
Blagojevich because question-
ing during his January testi-
mony abruptly changed course
and he never got a chance to
answer a direct question about
Blagojevich's brother.
Transcripts of Burris' tes-
timony, however, show he had
opportunities to provide a full
response to Illinois legislators.
In one instance, when asked
directly about speaking to Robert
Blagojevich and other associates
of the former governor, Burris
consulted withhis attorney before
responding.

President forgoes
'car czar,' will
instead form senior
group of advisors
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama plans to appoint
senior administration officials -
rather than a single "car czar," as
had been discussed - to oversee a
restructuring of the auto industry.
Treasury Secretary Timothy Gei-
thner and National Economic Coun-
cil Director Lawrence Summers will
oversee the across-the-government
panel, a senior administration offi-
cial said yesterday on the condition
of anonymity because no announce-
ment had been made.
"The president understands the,
importance of this issue and also
understands that the auto industry
affects and is affected by a broad
range of economic policies," the
official said.
As the teams move forward,
Obama "wants to make sure that
we're getting the expertise and
input of agencies across the govern-
ment," the official said.
Obama and his aides face diffi-
cult choices on the fate of the U.S.
auto industry, weighing the cost of
pouring billions more into strug-
gling companies against possible
bankruptcies that could undermine
plans to jump-start the economy.
General Motors Corp. and
Chrysler LLC are racing against a
Tuesday deadline to submit plans
to the government. The plans are
to be followed by weeks of intense
negotiations ahead of a March 31

deadline for the final versions of
the reports.
GM and Chrysler are living off a
combined $13.4 billion in govern-
ment loans. If they don't receive
concessions by March 31, they face
the prospect of having the loans
pulled, followed by bankruptcy
proceedings.
Any bankruptcy would be par-
ticularly painful, with some econo-
mists predicting the country could
lose 2 million to 3 million jobs this
year and the unemployment rate,
now 7.6 percent, could swell past 9
percent by the spring of 2010.
In television interviews Sunday,
White House senior adviser David
Axelrod didn't respond directly
when asked if the U.S. economy
could withstand a GM bankruptcy.
Nor did he directly address a ques-
tion about whether the-Obama
administration would let GM go
into bankruptcy.
"I'm not going to prejudge any-
thing. I think that there is going to
have to be a restructuring of those
companies. I'm not going to get
into the mode of how that happens.
We'll wait and see what they have
to say on Tuesday," he told "Fox
News Sunday."
Executives at the two automak-
ers have said bankruptcy is not an
option because consumers would
not buy cars from a company that
might go out ot business.
"How that .restructuring comes
is something that has to be deter-
mined," Axelrod said. "But it's
going to be something that's going
to require sacrifice not just from the
auto workers but also from credi-
tors, from shareholders and the
executives who run the company."

JI


BRIGHT MINDS. BRIGHT CITY.
SUMMER SESSIONS 2009
It's never too early to start thinking about summer. Enjoy all that Chicago has to offer while
taking a class to lighten your load for the fall. Registration starts February 13.
For a full list of courses, visit LUC.edu/summer.
LOYOLA
UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
Preparing people to lead extraordinary lives


4A - Monday, February 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

E

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
'tAnn Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FR Y 'JiED gtY
The name game
MSA, LSA-SG should focus on issues instead of labels
Student governments at the University have been getting a lot
of attention so far this year, and not because of any impressive
accomplishments. Instead it has been the unnecessary reso-
lutions, disturbing inaction and party politics that have captured the
student body's interest. The collapse of student government's domi-
nant party, the Michigan Action Party, and a controversial attempt
by the LSA Student Government to drop party labels from the bal-
lot, are certainly reflections of this negative attention. But while
these changes may represent the slightest of improvements to stu-
dent government's approach, dropping party labels isn't the change
it needs. Instead, MSA and LSA-SG need to change their definition
of parties into an entity that actually works for students.

It started as a crazy love poem in food
dedicated to an amazing candidate:'
- Zilly Rosen, a pastry artist in Buffalo, on her mural of President Barack Obama and former President
Abe Lincoln composed completely of cupcakes, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI T T PASTURE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
So when I came to, the They told me they're not Why does being drunk
trough was upside-down, going to let you in the barn excuse you from being an
there was slop everywhere, anymore. assholef
andlIsmelled terrible. a i'm ~if ' ~ ~ ~
~ LLA, * dank,2.~.KLA. en Oh please. They'renPIGS!a
~ ______ me brak___ aleay filthy! ;
e 6
y 10 go
I II II -I l-II 11111 1 11H H T'1111-

U


Schooling Granholm

The Michigan Action Party has swept
the past two elections with campaign
promises that are left unfulfilled and get
MSA and LSA-SG nowhere. The party has
been an election-winning machine because
of its ability to rally around one cause: get-
ting re-elected. Sadly, it has failed to act in
the best interest of students, instead func-
tioning only as a tool to get a select group
of students into LSA-SG and MSA.
Early last week, MAP split into two dif-
ferent groups - the Michigan vision Party
and the reMICHIGAN Campaign, which
doesn't want to be thought of as a party. On
top of that, LSA-SG decided to go party-
free this election - at least in principle,
since the LSA-SG bylaws require that can-
didates be allowed to identify with a party
on the ballot. Getting rid of parties is cur-
rently all the rage.
But just because these organizations
don't want to be classified as parties
doesn't mean anything has really changed.
Whether they call themselves parties, cam-
paigns,-groups-or-anything else, student
governments need to form entities that
have greater concerns than getting elect-
ed. The name doesn't matter - what mat-
ters is that representatives come together,
to work toward a common goal of meeting
student's specific needs. Student govern-
ment leaders, whether they form new par-

ties or shed the label of party altogether,
must keep in mind that their groups should
be based around the idea of policymakers
working together to help their constitu-
ents. A "party" should have a policy agenda
that aims to better the University.
Ideally, parties are a proven way for a
group of candidates with a similar mes-
sage to work together and articulate their
goals. And if there were more than one
legitimate, constructive party in the run-
ning, actual competition might drive voter
turnout - or at least turnout that's better
than 9 percent (the abysmal percentage).
Higher voter turnout could even result in a
measure of accountability for these parties.
Restoring student government's account-
ability should be a central concern of any
new group in MSA or LSA-SG, and party
labels should exist to accomplish this goal.
An effective student government would
achieve real policy changes, create effec-
tive political parties and build a system of
accountability. If this happens, students
could see their elected officials actually,
get things done. MAP certainly wasn't the
first group in student government to mis-
interpret the word "party" as a club to get
people elected - and it probably won't be
the last - but with its dissolution comes an
opportunity for MSA and LSA-SG leaders
to have parties the right way.

n page 34B of the farce mas-
querading as her higher edu-
cation budget proposal, Gov.
Jennifer Gra-
nholm proposed a
3-percent budget
cut to state univer-
sities.
paragraph, play-
ing the world's
smallest violin,
she beseeched PATRICK
colleges to freeze
their tuition rates O'MAHEN
in light of "dif-
ficult economic
times" for students and families.
Apparently Granholm's bargain for
universities is "Don't raise tuition and,
in exchange, we'll cut your aid." I sup-
pose she also expects universities to
maintain their quality of instruction
and research, too.
Governor, I want a unicorn, but that
doesn't mean Ican get one.
Aside from state officials' impos-
sible dreams, historical analysis shows
something more pernicious at work.
Instead of making reasonable appro-
priations to support higher education,
Michigan has quietly shifted the cost
of higher education from the state to
students.
Using data from the University's
Office of Budget, I calculated the per-
centages of the University system's
general fund revenues provided by
state funding and tuition since the turn
of the century. In 2001-02, tuition dol-
lars made up 54 percent of general fund
revenues. This school year, they make
up 64 percent. In contrast, the state's
contribution to the University has
slipped from 34 percent to 24 percent.
These trends do not reflect runaway
spending increases at the University;
they reflect reductions in Lansing's

contribution.
Adjustingfundingtotals forinflation
with data from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics makes the picture bleaker.
To put it in starker terms, the governor
has proposed $362.1 million in funding
to the University system in 2009-10. If
state funding kept up with inflation,
the system would get $511.3 million.
Undergraduates and their families will
have to pay higher tuition to bridge that
$149.2 million gap.
No matter how the numbers get
sliced, they demonstrate the whole-
sale gutting of higher education fund-
ing during the last decade. The state of
Michigan has abdicated its responsi-
bility to make a good college education
accessible to all residents who have the
talent for it.
In calling for a tuition freeze, Gra-
nholm cynically hopes to shift respon-
sibility and outrage for the state's own
shortcomings to state universities to
raise tuition.
But the numbers don't lie. Politicians
do - and we're paying for it.
So Michigan Student Assembly
President Sabrina Shingwani, what are
you goingto do about this?
What about you, LSA Student Gov-
ernment President Leslie Zaikis?
And all the rest of you, elected offi-
cials in student government?
I'm calling you all out. Despite pop-
ular opinion, I know you're intelligent
and hard-working and you care about
us. Here's an issue to mobilize your
constituents. Here's your chance to
make a real difference in student gov-
ernment.
And you, Nathanial Eli Coats Styer
over at the University's chapter of the
College Democrats - I'm calling you
and your organization out. You regis-
tered 4,700 voters last fall. I challenge
you to get 4,700 signatures on a peti-
tion to Lansing.

And what about all of us at the
Graduate Employees Organization?
Last year, we stood up for ourselves
and won a great contract. Now we have
a chance to stand up for our students.
So Solidarity Committee Chair Shana
Greenstein, let's get to work.
We need to pass resolutions, cir-
culate petitions and call lawmakers
to apply pressure. We need to orga-
nize our constituents and members
and encourage them to make a differ-
ence. But most of all, we need to work
together and coordinate our activities.
Together, we speak much louder than
we do as individuals.

Students leaders
need to defend
higher education.

4

Finally, we need to contact our sister
organizations at every other state uni-
versity - from Michigan State Univer-
sity to Grand Valley State University.
When 100 students from Ann Arbor
show up at the capital, no one cares.
But if 10,000 students from all over
Michigan march on Lansing, lawmak-
ers might wake up.
So man the phone banks. Fire up
the word processors. Knock on some
doors. Light the torches. Sharpen the
pitchforks. Let's tell state lawmakers
exactly what to do with Granholm's
higher education budget proposal -
loudly and often.
And for once, let's organize as a com-
munity and stick up for ourselves.

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus,
the Daily would like students to voice their opinions
on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.
MICHIGAN VISION PARTY | VlEWPuNT
A new vision for MSA

- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to ohedaiy@umich.edu.
BRIA GRAY AND ALEX LEVY IEWPOINT
What Israel's election means

What's your vision?
It's a simple question, really. Think back,
whether it be a few months or a few years, to
the moment you first became a student at the
University of Michigan. What were your expec-
tations, not only of college in general but of the
University of Michigan? What did you hope
this school would offer you, and what did you
hope you could offer this school?
We are a campus of activists when we choose
to be. From Dance Marathon to Detroit Part-
nership to Circle K and beyond, students are
involved in many service organizations com-
mitted to making our university community
and society a better place. Yet year after year,
the Michigan Student Assembly, the very orga-
nization that is supposed to serve our needs and
interests, falls short. But rather than acquiesce
to this embedded notion of failure, we firmly
believe that MSA has the ability to represent
our school's best.
If you are reading this, you likely have
noticed the recent number of students on this
page railing against what they see as an inef-
fective governing body. Chances are that many
of you gave up on student government long ago,
convinced of its uselessness. Instead, you chose
to devote your time to an organization with
more tangible, effective results.
Today, we ask you to re-enter the fold. We
ask you not to consider what student govern-
ment has been, but what it could be. Today, we
ask you to help us create a new vision for MSA,
with a new set of transparent, tangible goals to
help make up for all the discontentment. Today,
we ask you to help create a Michigan vision.
The Michigan Vision Party does not exist to
serve as a sounding board for a small group of
students, but rather, as a medium for the entire
student body. We have already set up an e-mail
address, whatsyourvision@umich.edu. Send us a
note. Tell us what you think. Give us your vision.
A lot of you are probably asking yourselves,
"How is this party going to be any different?"
Promises have been made and broken in the
past, and concerns that this cycle won't end
are legitimate. But our vision is different for
one main reason: It belongs to all of us. We will

not be fighting our own battles, but rather the
battles of the student body.
This is not to say MSA has not made signifi-
cant strides over the years. What we aim to do,
however, is to close the gap that exists between
the assembly and the student body. Our vision
is for an assembly that goes out of its way to
inform and engage the student body rather
than sitting back and waiting for the student
body to come to it.
We will talk to the students about real, sub-
stantive ideas. There will be no flyers with
clever monikers and empty promises. We will
give students actual information about the
issues they care about and what we will do to
solve them.
What is being done to increase campus light-
ing? How can we improve busing? How can
we combat rising tuition? Is it possible to shift
spring break to be more aligned with other
colleges? As a means to facilitate this ongo-
ing conversation, we will have a forum on our
website, michiganvisionparty.com. We hope all
of you will become a part of this free and hon-
est exchange of ideas, discussing how we can
improve our campus.
We will be held accountable. Every member
of our party will have one specific, substantive
idea that will become that person's platform. If
an issue is not being dealt with properly, you will
know where to turn. We will act as your place to
turn in times of trouble, not an exclusive body
disconnected from your true concerns.
We will be your voice. If others do not heed
our concerns, we will band together to make a
difference.
Our mass meeting is today at 8:00 p.m. in
Room 3411 of Mason Hall. We hope you will
come and join us, to get involved and to learn
about how, together, we can create a better,
more interactive and more transparent student
government. Our party is about vision. Your
vision. Our vision. The Michigan vision.
So take a look into the future of student gov-
ernment. Let us know what you see.
This viewpoint was written by
the Michigan Vision Party.

4

Feb. 10 was a big day in Israeli politics. For the past few
months, the recent elections have been a source of tension,
with the center party, Kadima, and the center-right party,
Likud, competing for majority seats in the parliament and
for prime minister. Although Tzipi Livni, who has been
the head of Kadima since Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's
resignation in September, had the chance to form a coali-
tion a few months ago, the parties on the left held too few
chairs in the Knesset to form a majority. That difficulty
predicted the future challenges of either center-leaning
party to form a coalition.
The exact seating of the parties in coalition hasn't been
announced, however, the recent elections showed a sig-
nificant shift in the views of Israeli citizens toward the
right. Both Livni and Binyamin Netanyahu, the head of
Likud, are claiming victory in this election. Although
Kadima gained more seats in the election, Likud still has
the upper hand. With Yisrael Beiteinu, the party of the far
right, gaining four seats and Likud gaining 15, the right is
in the best position toform a coalition and gain a majority
of seats in the government. In Israel, the right side of the
political spectrum is less willing to compromise on land.
The left, on the other hand, is willing to consider more
peaceful options. Although the new prime minister has
yet to be announced, predictions point to Netanyahu.
So where does that leave us now? It is not surprising
that Israeli citizens would vote right as a result of the
recent war with Gaza. American politics, however, fol-
lowed a different trend with the left becoming stronger
as people grew increasingly more tired of war. The differ-
ent attitudes of the U.S. and Israeli governments toward
war will pose a problem for U.S. President Barack Obama.
Although Obama called the Israel-Palestine peace pro-
cess one of his top priorities, it will be more difficult for
America to work with a right wing Israeli government
that is less inclined to negotiate or even address the con-
flict with Palestinians, as past governments have been
under Kadima.

As part of the left-wing Zionist movement, The Union
of Progressive Zionists works toward a peaceful two-
state solution in the Middle East. But how should we react
when we're not in support of the future government of the
country we love so much? Currently, we are a small group
here on campus, with the goal of promoting education and
dialogue on the current situation as well as promoting our
ideals: peace, equality and social justice for all citizens.
You might have noticed on Facebook that people have
been "donating their statuses," using applications like
"QuassamCount" or "SupportGaza." Even though this
"activism" seems unimportant, it portrays a deeper issue
within our generation. People often focus merely on statis-
tics and one-sided views from the media and ignore the big-
ger picture. We need to address our problems' roots, and we
can't do that by pointing fingers and refusingto take respon-
sibility. It is imperative that we not blindly support one side.
As members of a left-wing movement, we are not in support
of a right-wing government in Israel. This doesn't mean that
we aren't Zionists. It is important that we not automatically
agree with all of Israel's policies just because we are Zion-
ist. As Zionists, we have a vision of equality for all citizens,
and a separate state for Palestinians. Our criticism of Israel's
government, therefore, does not come from an anti-Israel
approach, but from the fear that without a peaceful, two-
state solution, Israel's existence could be at risk.
Withthe results of the electionslastweek,we urge every- '
one totake the extra step and educate themselves on differ-
ent perspectives of the situation. Form your own opinion
- do not simply take the views of the extreme right, or the
radical left. While the path to peace may not be looking too
bright, we still hold hope for the future. Although they may
currently be a minority, there are still many Israeli citizens
who believe in dialogue and education toward peace. Let's
help their voices be heard.
Bria Gray and Alex Levy are the President of UPZ
and a member of the executive board, respectively.

OS

k


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 16, 2009 - 5A
FINE ARTS COLUMN
Examining ourselves
through self-portraits

The world's most extreme piggy-back ride.

p
p

Kingai
Unnecessary horror est region only to be stalked and killed
by the hulking, deformed killer known
remake fails to break as Jason Voorhees (Derek Mears, "The
Hills Have Eyes II"). Then, in a brilliant
new ground twist, more college students show up and
get killed off by Jason. And that's about it
By BRANDON CONRADIS as far as plot goes.
Senior Arts Editor The film is certainly diverting, but
even judged primarily by its merits as
"Friday the 13th" is part of a string of a slasher film, it feels somewhat tepid.
recent horror movie Jason is menacing, the girls are attrac-
remakes, and out of tive and the woods look suitably spooky.
all of them, this film is But the film just reeks of laziness, as if
perhaps the least war- Friday the filmmakers, knowing full well that
ranted. After all, "Fred- audiences wouldn't care about the plot,
dy vs. Jason" - a stupid the 13th hashed out a script in a matter of days
but memorable contin- At Showcase and started shooting without making any
uation of the original and Quality 16 revisions.
'80s franchise - was Take the narrative structure, for
released just six years r . example. The 20-minute-long pro-
ago. So what's the point logue of the film, which introduces the
in starting the series all over again? audience to the first set of campers, is
Nonetheless, this new effort is mod- so satisfying in its blending of humor,
efately entertaining. It's not great, even atmosphere, tension and shocks that
in the context of the "Friday the 13th" it's impossible for the film to regain its
series, but it's not embarrassing, either. footing when it shifts focus and intro-
Ultimately, it's a film for tried-and-true duces another set of soon-to-be-dead
"Friday thel13th" fans. Everyoneelse will characters. What follows is essentially
probably just shrug and forget about it as the same thing as the prologue, only at a
soon as it ends. much slower pace and with less likable
The plot is simplicity itself. A group of actors. ,
college students hike into a secluded for- It doesn't help that there's nobody to

[assic
root for. While not entirely the fault of
the actors (the writers deserve the most
blame), the college students depicted in
this film are perhaps the most pathetic,
unlikable and downright stupid victims
ever to grace a "Friday the 13th" film.
And that's saying a lot.
But the film's biggest fault is its famil-
iarity. At times "Friday the 13th" feels
amusingly postmodern in its attempts to
poke fun at the conventions of the sub-
genre, but most of the time it seems con-
tent to merely tread the same ground as
its predecessors. No one is going to see
a film like this looking for high art, but
even those just seeking a good slasher
film might find this movie redundant and
annoyingly derivative.
Still, "Friday the 13th" is what it is.
Complaining about a film like this for
being derivative is about as pointless as
throwing the same criticism at a James
Bond film. Ultimately, viewers come to
these movies because of their familiarity.
If that's the case, this "Friday" is a minor
winner, as it delivers everything the ear-
lier movies did - mainly boobs and blood
- in spades.
So, while not impressive - even as
a slasher film - this remake is a decent
time-waster, even:if it can't compare to
its brethren from the '80s.

Self-portraiture is usually seen as one
of two things: either a somewhat
narcissistic piece of art made by a
well-known, self-congratulating artist, or
a somewhat narcissistic
MySpace photo taken by a
not-so-well-known, self-
congratulating person.
The idea of self-portrai-
ture has changed over
the years, especially with
the advent of the digital
camera. It has become too WiNY'
easy to make an image POW
of yourself - just point and
click, and there you go; a second later you
have a hazy-eyed picture of yourself that you
can immediately review.
The idea of the narcissistic self-portrait
is different, though, when you consider the
other end of this concept: When you're stuck
in a quiet room with a mirror, your lovely
face and some ink pens. And you sit there
staring at yourself for hours. In that time,
you'll probably be able to produce a few
sketches of differing, flattering-to-unflatter-
ing quality.
I don't think we spend enough time with
our faces. It's the fleetingness of it, really:
We glance at ourselves in mirrors or reflec-
tive coffee shop windows for a few seconds
a few times a day. And similarly, we catch
fleeting glances of ourselves in the digital
photographs that are posted, quantity over
quality, on social networking sites. These
self-portraits are just glimpses, and in the
same way, we flip through these photos after
glancing at each for a second of two at a
time. We don't really look at ourselves.
And glimpsing is different than looking.
Glimpsing means spending as little time as
possible with our faces and their unsightly
bits: zits, moles and floppy chins. Looking,
on the other hand, means staring at these
faults of ours without flinching. We're our
own worst critics, and it really is hard to
look at the things we dislike about ourselves.
It might actually be a good thing that we
aren't able to see ourselves without the aid
of something - a mirror, a camera, the bowl
of a spoon.
With this in mind, self-portraiture can
be self-congratulating, but more often than
not, it's self-critical. It forces artists to stare
at signs of old age and imperfection and
re producethosethings ona canvas, in a
photograph or in a sketch book. Whether or
not these imperfections are re-created in the
image is an entirely different story; the per-
sonma ycdos6f se coverhhem up or display'
them at his orcher own discretion. But the
point is that analog self-portraiture involves
a persistent stare at oneself, one's faults and
one's changing self-understanding.
Chuck Close is a world-renowned Ameri-
can artist primarily known for his photo-
realistic portraits and self-portraits. Much
of his art is painted on larger-than-life
canvases that can be as big as 10 feet by 12
feet. Close's concept of himself as an artist
changed, however, when in 1988 he suddenly
became paralyzed from the neck down.
Although he was able to regain some control
of his body, he had to have paint brushes
attached to his arms in order to paint. He
still continued to work, however, and it is
fascinating to see how his self-portrayal has
changed over the years.

Close's self-portrait titled Big Self-
Portrait, painted from 1967 to 1968 depicts
the skinny, artsy upstart shirtless from
the shoulders up. He has a smoldering
cigarette in his mouth, his eyes are eerily
half-opened and hazy. His head is tipped
upward, cockily daringsomeone to chal-
lenge him. The image appears self-appreci-
ating. It's a glamour portrait that suggests
youth, drugs and sex.
Close produced another self-portrait
called, yes, Self-Portrait in 1977. In this
painting, Close has a full beard, and his hair-
line has receded to the top of his head. The
painting still depicts him from the shoulders
up, although this time he looks directly at
the viewer in his collared, button-up shirt.
His eyes are open, expressive and lucid. His
image suggests his stark reality: he is the
aging painter.
Finally, we'll jump to 2000, 12 years after
he became paralyzed form the neck down.
The portrait is also titled Self-Portrait,
though the painting contains only his head
from the neck up. This reminds us of the fact
that this is the only part of Close's body over
which he has immediate agency. He is com-
pletely bald. His eyes look off the corner of
the picture, evasive, suggestingsomething
that has been closed-off or disconnected.
Perhaps it's meant to remind the viewer that
his paintings are now made with the help of
an assistant, because Close does not paint
these intimate portraits by himself anymore.
Close's self-portrayal changed a great
degree over a period of forty years. And the
way we see ourselves changes over time
as well, for better or for worse; it's paral-
lel to how our looks, our memories and our
relationships change. Who we are is grittier
than what the haphazard glance will reveal,
and a self-portrait contains more than
attractive aesthetics; it contains personal
meaning, the passage of time and details
we might not want people to know or care
about. It's honest, and honesty is not always
pretty.
Staring at yourself
in the mirror isn't
just narcissistic.
The fact that a self-portrait, by its own
nature, encourages self reflection is unique.
' Byspehding time withour own image;
somethingwe rarely spend more than an
hour a day looking at unadorned, we are
forced to look at ourselves in a way that can't
be replicated with the instantglimpses of
digital cameras and the age of profile pic-
tures. We've begun to take the self-portrait
for granted as something that is effortless to
create, and equally effortless to delete if it
depicts us in an unfavorable light.
A self-portrait is easy to conceive. Mini-
mally, it takes a pen, a napkin, a mirror and
an opened eye. What may be more difficult is
looking at yourself in a way that's more than
just a casual glance.
Pow wants to paint your self-portrait.
Explain to her why that doesn't make
any sense at poww@umich.edu.


An odd couple in advertising

By TOMMY COLEMAN
For the Daily
The buddy comedy is a subgenre that
always holds great
potential. From Joe and
Jerry in "Some Like
it Hot" to Harry and Trust Me
Lloyd in "Dumb and
Dumber," it's still sat- Mondays at
isfying to see two best 10 p.m.
friends screw around TNT
and stick together
through thick and thin.
"TrustMe"isaworkplacedramedythat
follows the exploits of an odd couple in the
advertising world. Mason (Eric McCor-
mack, "Will and Grace") is the respon-
sible half - a high-strung, hard-working
art director. Connor (Tom Cavanagh,
"Ed") is the goofball - a fast-talking but
laid-back copywriter. The duo works
as a creative team at a fictional Chicago
agency called Rothman, Greene & Mohr,
which also houses some other memora-
ble personalities. There's Monica Potter
(Sarah Krajicek-Hunter, "Boston Legal"),
a talented but neurotic and thin-skinned
newcomer to the office, and the hilarious
team of Tom (Mike Damus, "Numb3rs")
and Hechtor (Geoffrey Arend, "Greek"),
a mischief-making pair who, when their
powers combine, become the agency's
two-headed village idiot.
Indeed, Rothman, Greene & Mohr

proves to be the ideal setting for "Trust
Me." The preposterously pressure-filled
atmosphere of the world of advertising
quickens the pace of the show. In addi-
tion, advertising executives work in pairs
(one art director with one copywriter),
which is perfect for a buddy series. Pre-
dictably, some of the most powerful
scenes in "Trust Me" are those featur-
ing Mason and Connor hard at work in
fierce brainstorming sessions, where
each spews out ideas, both compelling
and awful, for their latest advertising
campaign.
This competitive environment fre-
quently puts Mason and Connor's rela-
tionship to the test. In the pilot, Mason
and Connor's stressed-out boss kicks the
bucket, and the agency's creative direc-
A well-played
buddy comedy.
tor Tony Mink (Griffin Dunne, "Law &
Order: Criminal Intent") needs to find
a replacement. He chooses Mason to fill
the position. Connor is upset that his
partner chose not to tell him about the
promotion, and their friendship must
survive the added tension. It's clear this
symbiotic relationship will be consis-

tently tested through the rest of the sea-
son with similar plot lines.
Unlike "Mad Men," AMC's popular
drama-heavy series about a New York
City advertising agency in the 1960s,
"Trust Me" finds humor in the stress-
ful world of advertising. During one of
Mason and Connor's brainstorming ses-
sions for a client, Arc-Mobile, a fictional
telephone company, Connor humorously
suggests that a gladiator named "Spar-
text-icus" be the mascot for the brand,
"slaying a lion with one hand and texting

with the other."
Whether they're
getting along or not,
it's McCormack
and Cavanagh that
hold the whole show
together. When they
aren't working on an
ad campaign, they
quibble and squabble
like an old married
couple over anything
and everything. But
it's obvious that, at the
end of the day, they'll
still be pals.
Watching these two
talented actors bicker,
fight andmakeupforan
hour each week prom-
ises, if nothing else, to
be entertaining.

U


Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line ads to
clients
Obtaining and building client relationships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improvingyour resume
Makinga commission-based salary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please e-mail dailyclassified@gmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!

.invest in You
Invest W~ow
Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are now
being awarded to top applicants for a new one-year
Master's Program in Finance beginning Fall 2009.
" Acquire the expertise you will need to succeed in
the market place of the future.
" Leverage a dedicated career specialist and extensive
alumni network in entering the market.
* Build your leadership potential in the co-curricular
program and meet with distinguished speakers.
For more information, or to apply, please visit
www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate, or contact
us at rdsadmission@claremontmckenna.edu.
THE ROBERT DAY SCHOOL
CLAREMON TM KEN NA COLLEGE
500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711 TEL: 909-607-3347

it

.


6A- Monday, February 16, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I

I

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
f f ent
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break and get these new rates.
Incredible location! I & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
***FOR SEPT.;2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprp.com 769-7025.
3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1200/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609

Otdr Eoless nger
WGkE T IroomIG BtUyO L Lug,
cupdonoreerontV ounge!
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-ri.com
University
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
*2 BEDROOMS - Great campus loca-
tions* 1001 S. Forest. 526 & 917
Packard, 848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Wal-
nut. All furnished and include heat, wa-
ter, and parking, some with free wire-
less! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
*3 BEDROOM APTS*
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share. (734)1668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*6-BEDROOM HOUSE*
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full.
baths, great for 6 - 8 people. Kerry-
town! Close to Downtown, Zingerman'-
s & summer farm market! (734) 668-
1100. www.varsitymanagement.com
*BIG HSE! 5 lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free dry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
*MAY- MAY 2 bedroom*
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.coms
1 & 2 Bdrm. forn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg: Call 734-904-6735.

c the 1I
~~404
'nd and t
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.aniarbOrapartrtnents.net
or visit IS at
1700 Geddes Ave.
AVAIL. MAY - 5 bdrm. duplex. 1114
Prospect. Lg. bdrms., modern kitch.,
central A/C. Free Idry. $2650+ util.
734-665-2723. shahtiger /hotmail.com
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2009
7 bdrm. 521 Linden, 2 bath, 6 prkg.
spots, wshr./dryer,dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $3200 linden521@ame.com
5 bdrm. 525 Linden, 2 bath., 4 prkg.
spots, wshr./dryer, dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $2800 linden525@&,me.com
Contact Jonah Copi 415 786 8206.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmnsiproperties.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
Tdo m Unit s
Tower Plaza Condominium

ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimmina pool. Pet friendly!

U

2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ]dry access.
Located on N. State. Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagenent.com
3 BDRM. APTS. Fast U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. Ott site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall -09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappoisanagemtent.comtt
IMammagemesd
o yourfor your
'apartment before Break!
Furnished Studios, 1, 2, & 3
bedrooms still available!
Call 734.660.1100 today
for an appointment!
L ww arsitymnuagemneteam
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available Fall
'09. 2 baths, hardwood floor, Free laun-
dry and parking. Near Yost Arena
$2000 call: 734-717-6913.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Efl 1 bdrin., and 2 bdrm. apt. i/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
4-5 BDRM IHouse. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath. A/C, dry, prkg, fireplace.
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@uaol.com
401 EAST MADISON - NE W PRICE
(!) ott Bratid New (!) apartmsents featur-
lng: 6 Bedrootss (+ Study, 2.5 bat-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitenanagement.coni

428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3400 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more intfo or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTSAVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FR EE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studiis to 6 bdrt. Isoses in all lo-
cations.tlease contact Michigat Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1328 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
CallToday!

CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet. Rent from $430 - $520.
Call 734-276-0886.
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown

4


Qui t& -cecI ldcu H 0gs nebrCampu:s *Fully Furnished apartment
Ca Brian Tomslc *Parking Included
734-663-1030 *Free Ethernet
*Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
3 Bedrooms $450-$650
720 West Washington (Charming Old SEPT. 2009
West Side Home) $1795 PROPERTIES
911 Oakland (Furmished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad) 74-663-5609
$1785
5 Bedrooms 2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995 ture, and FREE Internet!
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995 $200 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen) Don't miss out on the Best Central
$2995 Campus Deals!
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995 Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long, when
6 Bedrooms Cheyre gone, they're gone!
w- --- - Call the Best at 734-761-2680 - . -
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher) universitytowers-mi.com
$3095
CENTRAL CAMPUS 3 and 4 bed-
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail- room houses for rent. 734-649-7571.
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
Management 734-995-9200 May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
www.wilsonwitemanagement.com bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com 734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
Apartments Available Post Realt
properties
Partially Furnished' parking,
2-bedroom apartments
and LandryFall and May leases available.
Leases for May and Spacious apts., great location,
SeptemberFree internet. 912 S. Forest.

4

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com


I

4

RELEASE DATE- Monday, February 16, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 69 Toon dog 35 "The Jazz 49 Stuck during rush
1 Trooper prefix 70 CPR experts Singer" singer hour, say
5 London lavs, 36 Hawaiian volcano 50 Reader's
initially DOWN 37 Jade and quartz, popular
8 Popular tourist 1 __.party: e.g. magazine
areas sleepover 39 Market optimist 51 Dred and George
14 The slightest bit 2 Pioneeringagame 42 Radio CD players C.
15 "Go, team!" systems 43 Advanced study 55 " Mio"
16 Highway entrance 3 Baltimore group 57 Health resorts
17 Jazzy 1940 NFLers 45 Hindu priest 59 Open a little
standard that 4 Hersey's "A Bell 46 One wayto get to 62 15-Across, at a
begins "Ilove for _" the airport bullfight
coffee" 5 Cite for speeding 48 Gum glob 64 Luau instrument
19 Carpenter, at 6 Sixer's opponent
times 7 Queens ballpark ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Rebuttal to "Am for45 seasons
so!" 8 Fourth-largest F A SIT T A L K S I C E M
21 Awayfromthe state A T T H E DOOR T R A L A
prow 9Bambi'saunt Y O U A N D W H O S E A R M Y
.23Adriaticseaport 10Babybed E I N T I E S C R I B E S
24 Studied 11 Ristorante squid B O E R R E S O R T
secondarily, with 12 Made in the MET A T CHAS E
"in" SHates E G ESC U S
26 Thanksgiving 13EGrizzle EAGLESCO T ASS
eggie 1CS"actresspFox I D I D N T C A T C NHI H A T
28 60secs. 22"Juut so you NSF AL L TH ERAGDE
29 Bamyard brayer know,"on a B O R I S A E S O P
30 Conditioning memo O N B ASE PAD S
exercise 25 Key with two R OOTCIA P A T L S N O
33 Like a visit from sharps: Abbr.
Benedict XVI 27 Leo's studio S O W H A T E L S E I S N E W
34 Unconcerned 31 "Peyton_ " O S I E R N O T I N T I M E
with right and 32 Kangarookid N E E D S BON E U P O N
wrong 33 Sausage meat xwordeditor@aol.com 02/16/09
35 Bulletn and such
38 Quick punch 1 2 3 4 0 0 8 8 s 10 11 12 13
40 Berlin article
41 Scottish
landowners 17 11
44 Holefor sorting
47 Cheap earrings, 20 21 22 23
etc.
49 Prfs of age, 24 2 26 in 28
briefly
52 Word before 29 m 31 32
"BlastofflI"
53 Like a wee baim
54 Concise n m n37 3 30 40
56 Phyllis's TV
husband 41 42 43 4 is 4i
58 State Eatfinash.
n Attempts, with. 47 48 4 sos1
" 6 2 53 sa 55
61 Apply
haphazardly i5 57 5 50 60
63 747, e~g
65 Yves's "Wow!" 61 62 06 3i
66 Letters before an
alias 6566&7
67 Tenth out often
61 Egyptianleader 69 70
for whom a lake
is named fyHolly Barnes 02/16/09
(c)2009I Tribune Media Services, Inc.

406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 B3drrs., 2 Iath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net

F

It

IC
in
n
,d.
357
54
.5pt

all or email Post Realty for
showing or more
nformation: 734-761-8220 or
o@postrealtyproperties.com
m
ClaSSification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking

Deaine: for lie adsi 1-ihcmrone busirnes dytcirrto pu bircatiron.

Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contacto ur staff for details n Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
busiress ads only) " All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing prvleges
have been establiShed n We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
uscover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertiing, please call one
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 8.6 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70
4 lines 17.20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60

09C
09-
095

- Com puters
STechnology
Furniture
-For Rent
- Subet
Services
- Help Wanted
- Summer Employment
- Child Care
- Tickets & Travel
- Announcements
- Websites.
- Music
- Roommates
- Food & Entertainment
- Personal

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only
TMD for failure to publ
shall be limited to publ
will be responsible for
Rates: All d oanges s

abbreviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
/ertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrecthads in a specified issue
a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the firstday of publication
he open rates lines are consecutive insertions, An ad may be extended at a
id paid in full by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds:
efore publication deadline, but no refund will be given unlessthe ad has not yet
s are subject to editing and approval. We do not publish advertisements for
ce value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to

120
123-
125-
130-
140-
150-

-4

I Refusal: i

160 - Pets

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 16, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, February 16, 2009 - 7A

Venezuela votes to end term imits I PELL GRANTS

54 percent of voters
support proposal
CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) -
President Hugo Chavez won a ref-
erendum to eliminate term limits
yesterday, paving the way for him
to run again in 2012 - and beyond
- and push through his vision of a
socialist Venezuela.
Fireworks exploded in the sky
and caravans of supporters cel-
ebrated in the streets, waving red
flags and honking horns.

With 94 percent of the vote
counted, 54 percent had voted in
favor of the constitutional amend-
ment, National Electoral Council
chief Tibisay Lucena aninounced.
Forty-six percenthad voted against
the measure to eliminate term lim-
its on all public officials, too few
to make up the distance with the
remaining votes.
"Today we opened wide the
gates of the future. Venezuela will
not return to its past of indignity,"
Chavez proclaimed after singing
the national anthem from the bal-

cony of his Miraflores palace.
Voters on both sides said their
decision was crucial to the future
of Venezuela, a deeply polarized
country where Chavez has spent a
tumultuous decade in power chan-
neling tremendous oil wealth into
combating gaping social inequality.
The recorded blare of bugles
jarred Venezuelans awake before
dawn, and long lines formed even
before the polls opened at 6 a.m.
Information Minister Jesse Cha-
con projected turnout as high as 70
percent.

People voting "yes" said Chavez
has given poor Venezuelans cheap
food, free education and quality
health care, and empowered them
with a discourse of class strug-
gle after decades of U.S.-backed
governments that favored the
rich. No successor has emerged,
and voters said they worry their
gains will vanish if Chavez leaves
office.
"If Chavez loses, his social
achievements will all disappear,"
said Richard Mijares, a 40-year-
old secretary.


Deardorff said the most memo-
VLCEK rable thing about Vlcek was the joy
From Page 1A she took in learning everything she
could about everyone in her life. .
son who cared about others. "I loved talking to her about
"We depended on her not just as my life and hers," Deardorff said.
a secretary, but as a human being," "Often she would tell me about her
I he said. "She had a greater under- kids and grandkids."
standing of the world." Marysia Ostafin, program man-
Deardorff, who attended the ager for the Center for Russian &
visitation before the service yes- East European Studies, worked
terday, said there were a lot people with Vicek for 10 years. She said it
present to pay their respects. was wonderful to work with Vlcek
"She clearly had a huge number because she pushed others to work
of friends and relatives," he said. well together.
"There were a lot of people that "It is hard to imagine our work
cared for her." without her," Ostafin said. "Her
the michigan daily m

wry humor and understanding
will be much missed."
Thomas Ivacko, administra-
tor and program manager for the
Center for Local, State and Urban
Policy, worked with Vlcek as well.
As a colleague, he said she was
always looking to lend a helping
hand, often going beyond her job
responsibilities.
"She was an extraordinarily
thoughtful and caring person,"
Ivacko said. "She always had a
smile on her face and she was
extremely easy to talk to."
Vlcek lived in Tecumseh, Michi-
gan with her daughter. She liked to

spend her free time cheering on the
Manchester High School wrestling
team, which is coached by her son.
Susan Collins, dean of the Ford
School, attended the memorial
service. She said there was an out-
pouring of support for Vlcek's fam-
ily and friends.
"Faith was a vibrant, benevolent
member of the Ford School com-
munity who we will miss greatly,"
Collins said. "The Ford School is
really in mourning of having lost
her so suddenly."
Vlcek is survived by her chil-
dren, Elizabeth Malcolm and Ste-
ven Vlcek.

maximum grant size for the 2008
fiscal year was $4,731.
These funding increases come at
a time of need for students and fam-
ilies struggling to afford the rising
cost of higher education.
"Giving more students an oppor-
tunity to obtain a college degree is a
smart, long-term economic invest-
ment that will help us prepare the
next generation ofworkers for high-
tech jobs," said Rep. Mark Schauer
(D-Battle Creek).
Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.)
addressed the issue of Pell Grants
and higher education funding as
a part of the federal economic
recovery package in an address
given on the floor of the Senate
last week.
"The bill adds $13.9 billion to
increase the Pell Grant maxi-
BURSLEY
From Page 1A
"All of the rooms should be dried
out by Monday," Logan said. "The
room where the sprinkler actually
detonated will take significantly
more cleanup. It could take several
days to a week, but there is no per-
manent damage."
Mostoftheroomsdonothaveper-

mum award and pay for increases
in program costs resulting from
increased eligibility and higher Pell
Grant awards," Levin said, "which
will help 7 million students pursue
postsecondary education."
In an e-mail statement last week,
Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.)
wrote that investments in higher
education funding and, in particu-
lar, in programs like Pell Grants, are
critical to the long-term viability of
the nation's economy. She wrote
they also provide more immediate
relief for families burdened by the
cost of college tuition.
"There is no question that fami-
lies throughout our state are strug-
gling to make ends meet,"Stabenow
wrote. "The crucial investment in
Pell Grant funding in the econom-
ic recovery package will provide
much-needed financial assistance
for students tryingto afford college
and technical trainingduringthese
difficult economic times."
manent damage and fans are being
used to dry themout, Logan said.
The fans ,are expected to run
continuously for the next few days,
Logan said.
The effects of the damage ranged
from only a few drops to over an
inch of standing water.
"We had standing water," LSA
freshman Jamie Burghdoff said.
"The water came down. We lost the
carpeting."


APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1114 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available tool Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrm. House
$2400!!! On Central Campus, 3 bath,
Furn., free ldry, prkg, 734-786-0249.
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$788-$949/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213.
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Oeddes and South University.
Srricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GRADUATE STUDENT? 418 E.
Washington studios and one bedrooms
available. Close to Main St. and central
campus, modern, quiet, many updated
kitchens. Visit
www.varsitymanagement.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
inc. Balt., A/C, prkg., ]dry,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call
248-177-0859 or 248-217-6896.
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$200 signing bonus on all 2 bedrooms
+ free internet

universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-24110

ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.

SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
WANNA MAKE A quick $300? Well
you can help rent houses. 717-2017.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
ate to get the experience you need!
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

slimmer emp Oy1,
093
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

1 . .1
Are You Feeling Sad or Blue
and Without Energy?
Have you lost interest in people?
Do you have problems with sleep?
If you answered "yes" to these questions,
you are a woman or manover the age of
18, and NOT takineications,
yo ay be eligble topartcipae i
studies lokn t stress hormones'.
Botharstusies vle mltaple
bior a eanuee in2a
studyomisitsa ingienght.
for suypanrtiiation.
For further information, please contact
www.depressnietudiesumich.edu
or 7,34-232-0382
150
COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION
Loving couple wishing to adopt an
infant. Willing to pay legal and medical
expenses. 1-800-488-3038
n --:-c :- -a .:--tmnri :-in -n omn . v

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

VIDEOGAMES
From Page 1A
"It's clear that (videogames) are
motivating,"Fishmansaid. "There's
something about a well-designed
game that is compelling."
The goal, Fishman said, is to
explore why educators haven't
shaped high school algebra, or Sta-
tistics 350, in the videogame mold.
"Playisthe oldest formoflearning,"
Fishman said. "But when we designed
schools, we went away from that."
Fishman stressed that the course
is notjust fun and games. It focuses
on the relationship between videog-
ame technology and social science
in the field of education - some-
thing that, Fishman said, is not a
new concept.
Fishman pointed out that the mili-
tary has been at the forefront of using
videogames as tools for learning.
Simulators and virtual experi-
ences can present elements and
situations that live training, or book
theory, cannot re-create, Fish-
man said. The armed forces also
used videogames to help with their
recruitment needs.
Fishman said he often invites
colleagues and professionals in the
field to be guest speakers to stimu-
late class discussions. His list of
future speakers includes game
designers, educational researchers
and game developers.
As part of the course curriculum,
students are required to do their
own at-home research by playing
video games, Kinesiology junior
Josh Leskar said in an e-mail. But
Leskar stressed that this type of
homework is not just all play.
"Sure, we get to play video games
for homework throughout the semes-
ter," Leskar said. "But we also haveto
do a lotofcthinking about what we are
playing, and why we are playing it."
There are currently 70 students
in Fishman's course, and because
of such popularity, he expects the
class will be a regular offering for
the winter term.
While parents might gripe about
videogames' negative role in child-
hood development and question the
necessity ofa college course dedicated
THREET
From Page 1A
himself and his family," Jacobs said
yesterday before the quarterback
announced his intention to leave
the Wolverines. "He's going to do
what's best and do the right thing.
I'm supportive of the kid."
Threet enrolled at Georgia Tech
in January 2007 but transferred
after spring practice. He cited the
departure of Yellow Jacket offen-
sive coordinator Patrick Nix, who
primarily recruited Threet, as the
main reason for the transfer.
Although Michigan had five-star
quarterback Ryan Mallett, Threet
told Jacobs he wasn't intimidated.
Threet thought he outplayed Mal-
lett at Michigan's quarterbackcamp
after his junior year of high school,
Jacobs told The Michigan Daily
in September 2008. When Threet
decided to transfer to Michigan,
Jacobs said the quarterback called
him with a simple message.
"'Coach, I'm going to go back
to Michigan, and I'm going to beat
Mallett out for that starting job,' "
Jacobs said Threet told him.
Threet sat out the 2007 season
because of NCAA transfer rules,

and Mallett transferred to Arkan-
sas after that season.
Threet competed with Sheridan,
a former walk-o during spring

to the study, Fishman argues that our
culture has entered a different era.
"Videogames are a huge part of
popular culture," Fishman said.
As for the concerns of elder gen-
erations, he says that it is normal.
"This world doesn't look like the
world they remember."
Even games that have sparked
outrage and public debate have
some intrinsic value worthy of
study, Fishman said.
"Grand Theft Auto is full of fas-
cinating ethical problems," he said.
"You could shoot the guy, or you
could choose not to."
Fishman hopes that other uni-
versities take advantage of popular
technology to enhance the classroom
learning experience, and not to sepa-
rate the classroominto technological
and non-technological divisions.
"I want schools to take advantag
that lots of kids have iPods, lots of kids
have cell phones. Video games are a
part of that," he said, noting how his
class doesn'tuaeleglrs," blujtcgk
messaging to participatein lectures.
Fishman's class is part of a larger
movement in the University to push
the importance of popular technol-
ogy in modern learning. A videog-
ame archive on North Campus that
plans to make every videogame
ever created available to students is
another example.
The goal of the course is not nec-
essarily to train future teachers,
Fishman said, but to make educa-
tion better.
Leskar says he definitely has
learned a lot in the class, adding
that every lecture is a pleasure to
attend and he is glad he enrolled.
"I was blown away. Before this
class, I figured that video games
could improve hand-eye coordina-
tion, and 'educational' video games
like MathBlasters could help you
with fast math," Leskar said. "How-
ever, there are so many things you
can learn from a multitude of vid-
eogame types - from Call of Duty
to Madden NFL '09, each game can
teach you topics from math to time
management to forward thinking
and planning, among a multitude of
other ideas."
"Plus," Leskar said, "video games
are fun. What did I have to lose?"
and fall practices for the starting
job. Sheridan started in the season
opener, but Threet got the start-
ing nod in the next game against
Miami (Ohio).
"It's frustrating not to hit the
passes to help the team. win more
than anything," Threet said after
the Miami game, in which he went
6-of-13 for 63 yards, including one
50-yard screen pass. "Some passes,
some plays, I'd like to have back. But
that's the situation, so you justkeep
on working, and try and come back
next week and make the plays."
Threet's breakout start came
against Notre Dame on Sept. 13.
In South Bend, he went 16-of-23
for 175 yards, one touchdown and
no interceptions. He started seven
more games but missed two of
Michigan's final three games with
a shoulder injury. He didn't play at
Minnesota and didn't make the trip
to Ohio State. Threet said early last
season that being Michigan's quar-
terback wouldn't affect his laid-
back personality.
"I feel that I can be focused,
but be myself at the same time,"
Threet said. "Me as a person, I can't
be uptight. I don't like that feel-
ing, so that's not how I'm going to
approach a game."

- Daily Sports Writers Nate
Sandals and Joe Stapleton
contributed to this report.

For Tuesday, Feb. 17, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is an excellent day for any kind of
physical activity, especially activity
related to groups - particularly group
sports. You're energetic and enthusias-
tic!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
You're so confident and enthusiastic
today, nothing will hold you back.
Bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs will
step aside when they see you coming,
because you have a mission!
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
Travel plans are exciting today.
Similarly, plans in connection with
higher education, publishing, the media,
medicine and the law look fabulous!
You're confident and full of good vibes
today.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Don't give away the farm today. In
discussions about shared property or
anything that is jointly held, you feel
unusually confident and generous.
Although your head might he in the
cloids, keep your feet on the ground.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Interactions with partners and close
friends are extremely upbeat and enthu-
siastic today. Htowever, one person
might dominate the conversation or
transactions taking place. (Avoid going
overboard here.)
VIRGlO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You're able to work extremely hard
today because you're excited about get-
ting something done. You know just who
to ask for help to do something, and sure
enough - teamwork flows smoothly.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
What a playful, fun-loving day! This

is a great day for sports and pleasurable
activities. Lucky Librans are on vacation
right now. Romance and love affairs are
also blessed. Enjoy!
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You can get a lot done today at home
doing anything from major renovations
to routine, domestic tasks. You're not
afraid to tackle big projects. Others are
ready to help you today.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You're persuasive and convincing in
all your communications today. It's a
great day for writers, actors, teachers,
people in sales and anyone a marketing.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You're very bold in handling money
transactions today. Cash is definitely
flowing! You're working hard to make
money, and you're not aftiaid to spend it.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You feel strong, physically energetic
and comfortably aggressive in all your
dealings with others today. There's no
question you're the leader of the pack!
PISCES
(Feh. 19 to March 20)
Secret activities or work that is behind
the scenes will go well today. You're
enjoying the pleasure of your own com-
pany. Furthermore, you're hopeful about
what you're doing.
YOU BORN TODAY You have a
brave spirit, but privately, you're very
sensitive. You believe in fighting the
good fight, and you wilt always rally for
the underdog and justice. Whatever you
embrace, you believe it passionately.
You are calm, earthy and caring. If see
you as logical, grounded and realistic.
This year an important choice wilt
arrive. Choose wisely.
Birthdate of: Ruth Rendell, mystery
writer; Brenda Fricker, actress; Luc
Robitaille, hockey player.

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line
ads no ciests
Obtaiing and building client rela-
tionhipn
Gaining priceless sales expeeience
Improving youreresume
Making a commission-based salary
-...and having FUN at the same time
Please e-mail dailyclassified@gmail.com,
call (734)764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity PassYou By!


C

8A - Monday, February 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom



I

4

I

4

I

 20na PriceaterhuseCoopees LLP. All rihts resette. "PieatehuseCopeets"eestsPiceatehuseCopets LLP a, as te cstet eqies, the PiceatehuseCopeesaibal etaotk at thet membettfitess atthe etaotk, each at
wish is a sepatate adiependent leal etit. We ae ptoua ta e as Atimatie ActinanEqal Opprtnity Emplye.
r .r'


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I February16, 2009

MICHIGAN70
NORTHWESTERN67 (OT)

p

MANNY WILD
Harris explodes for 26 points,
leads 'M' to second road win

PAUL BEATY/AP
(TOP RIGHT) Sophomore Manny Harris contributed 25 points in the second half in Michigan's 70-67
win. (ABOVE) Junior DeShawn Sims fouled out with eight points in 26 minutes on the court.

By ALEX PROSPERI
Daily Sports Writer
EVANSTON - Michigan sophomore Manny Harris couldn't
remember the last time he was in "the zone."
But during the Michigan men's basketball team's 70-67 over-
time victory yesterday at Northwestern, he found it.
"Today, I was able to get in the zone," said Harris, who scored
25 points in the second half and overtime. "And that was a good
thing."
Yesterday's game at Welsh-Ryan Arena was the first of four
road trips the Wolverines (6-7 Big Ten, 16-10 overall) will make in
their final six games. Entering the game, Michigan had just one
road win, a 72-66 victory over Indiana on Jan. 7.
Michigan needed to top the Wildcats.
And ultimately, the outcome was all in Harris's hands.
"I said, 'Fresh, we're going down with you,' " fifth-year senior
C.J. Lee said of Harris, whose nickname is "Manny Fresh."
"'You're our guy, and you know it. Just do what you do."'
Harris scored just one point in the first half, sitting the final

11 minutes of the frame after picking up his second foul. Harris
said that early in the season, the two early fouls would have been
frustrating. But yesterday, he stayed positive.
He came out looking possessed in the second half, scoring the
Wolverines' first nine points of the stanza and 12 of their final 17.
"Your confidence is so high, and your swagger's up so high,"
Harris said of being in the zone. "You feel like you're going to
make every shot."
A loss would have flipped the two squads in the Big Ten stand-
ings, dropping the Wolverines to ninth and putting Northwest-
ern (4-8,13-10) in eighth.
The win moves Michigan just one game behind the logjam for
fifth between Minnesota, Penn State and Wisconsin. The Wol-
verines play the Golden Gophers twice and the Badgers once in
their final five games.
But Harris's effort almost went for naught.
The Wolverines blew a five-point lead in the final one minute
and 44 seconds of regulation, highlighted by an off-balanced
3-pointer by Northwestern's Kevin Coble.
See WILDCATS, Page 3B

Turnovers nearly unravel Michigan in Evanston

By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
EVANSTON - The sound of The
Victors echoed out of the visitors
locker room in Welsh-Ryan Arena.
After five straight road losses, the
Wolverines finally had something
to cheer about yesterday after they
knocked off Northwestern 70-67.
All season, Michigan coach John
Beilein has stressed the necessity of
staying poised on the road.
But in the final minutes of the

second half, the Wolverines' poise
seemed to dissolve as the lanky
Wildcat defenders applied theirtrap
zone defense.
In the last minute and 23 seconds,
Michigan's guards turned the ball
over three times to let a three-point
lead wash away.
The most costly of the turnovers
came as fifth-year senior C.J. Lee
attempted to split two defenders
and had the ball slapped out of his
hands. The steal set up Northwest-
ern forward Kevin Coble's acrobatic

3-pointer that forced overtime.
As the Wolverines tried to score
a game-winning basket, Lee com-
mitted another turnover, giving the
Wildcats a chance to win in regula-
tion.
Heading into the deciding peri-
od, Beilein gathered his players and
reminded them to stay collected.
"You really got to make eye con-
tact with your players at that time
and say, 'We're in this together.
You're going to make this thing hap-
pen, but you're going to have to will

it to happen. They're not going to go
away. They want this as bad as you
do. You just got to work your hard-
est,' " Beilein said.
In the final minutes of overtime,
it looked like Michigan might blow
its lead again.
Freshman guard Stu Douglass
turned the ball over with a four-
point lead and then junior forward
DeShawn Sims fouled out, hitting
Coble while he attempted a 3-point
shot.
Coble hit all three freebies and'

Michigan's lead dwindled to one.
But the Wolverines showed their
poise in one crucial area that ended
up being the difference maker -
free throws.
Lee and forward sophomore for-
ward Manny Harris both stepped
to the charity stripe in the closing
moments and knocked down key
free throws.
"I'm kind of calm on the free-
throw end," Harris said. "I thinkI'm
going to make a lot of shots, but my
wrist was kind of bothering me the

last couple games, and I was missing
a couple free throws that I should
make. Iwas just telling myself,'Your
wrist don't hurt. It don't hurt.You're
going to make every free throw.' "
Harris hit 9-of-10free throws and
Michigan scored 21 points from the
line in a game that was tightly offici-
ated with many touch fouls.
Although the Wolverines' poise
wasn't as solid as Beilein would have
liked, he knows how difficult it can
be to win on the road in the Big Ten.
See ROAD WIN, Page 3B

Depth a good sign down the stretch
n the Michigan hockey team's d
press conference follow-
ing Saturday's 4-2 win over
Nebraska-Omaha, sophomore for-
ward Louie Caporusso sat on the "
right of the table and senior goalie
Billy Sauer on
the left.
Caporusso,
who is second
in the country
-. with 22 goals,
posted three
assists in the
victory. Sauer,
who set single-
season pro- MICHAEL
gram records EISENSTEIN
for goals-
against aver-
age and save percentage last year, <
stopped 28 of 30 shots Saturday. N
But it was the freshman for-
ward sitting between them - a e
one-time walk-on - who scored'
the final two goals in the Wolver-
ines' comeback win, including an
empty netter, in the final five min-
utes of the game.
Meet Luke Glendening, the
team's fourth-line right-winger.
Glendening's first goal gave
Michigan its first lead of the game ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
with 4:28 remaining. And his Freshman Luke Glendening tallied two goals in Saturday's third period to secure Michigan's sweep of the Mavericks.
second lamp-lighter of the game,
his fifth of the year, put the Mav- coach Red Berenson said. "It's Junior Brian Lebler, who had Overall, nine different Wolver-
ericks away with 35 seconds left nice to see a kid like that - a kid just three total goals last season, ines scored in Michigan's season-
on the clock. The win guaranteed that nobody knew much about has scored in three consecutive high 12-goal weekend.
the Wolverines a first-round bye coming in. And here he is, playing games. "It's just nice to know that you
in the CCHA Tournament and regular every night, and he's mak- And sophomore forward Ben got a bunch of guys on the team
home-ice advantage in the quar- ing a difference on our team." Winnett, who was a healthy that, when it's crunch time, any-
terfinals. Sure, they might have been scratch against both Notre Dame body can pick it up," Lebler said.
"(Glendening) got out there on "right-place, right-time" goals. and Michigan State a few weeks And that depth is particularly
Louie's line on a change, and that But Glendening's performance ago, scored a shorthanded goal reassuring for the Wolverines as
was a huge goal for us," Michigan was just the tip of the iceberg. Friday to extend Michigan's lead. See EISENSTEIN, Page 4B

Blue goes winless at
ITA Indoor Nationals

By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writer
Three matches against top-20
opponents.
Three losses.
One miserable weekend - or
was it?
The No. 18 Michigan men's
tennis team competed in the ITA
National Team Indoor Champion-
ship this weekend in Chicago with
high hopes of performing well
against the country's top competi-
tion.
After three days of intense,
hard-fought matches, Michigan
coach Bruce Berque and the Wol-
verines (5-4) had zero wins to
show for their effort.
"This weekend was an opportu-
nity to compete in some matches
that were not originally on our
schedule," Berque said. "I knew
there was the possibility of coming
away with no wins, but I thought
we could at least win one match."
After falling to No. 2 Texas on
Friday (4-0) and No. 7 Florida on
Saturday -(4-1), the Wolverines
looked to gain some positive expe-
riences from the weekend.
Michigan began play yesterday
against No. 16 Florida State, hop-
ing to win its first doubles point on
the weekend. But the Wolverines'
drought continued with a loss.
"Our doubles did not provide us
with the start we wanted all week-
end," Berque said.
Michigan regrouped after the
doubles disappointment, need-
ing to win four of the six singles

matches to come away with the
win.
With the singles score knot-
ted at two matches apiece, junior
George Navas won his match in
three sets (3-6, 6-1, 6-1). The win
set the stage for sophomore Jason
Jung to clinch the match with a
win.
But Jung fell to 30th-ranked
Jean-Yves Aubone, giving the
Seminoles the 4-3 match victory.
The Wolverines' third loss in
three days was not necessarily a
setback, according to Berque. But
Michigan's inability to come away
with the doubles point in all three
matches proved to be the biggest
disappointment on the weekend.
The bounces weren't going the
right way for the Wolverines yes-
terday, and Berque felt the players
allowed their emotions to affect
their performance, something
Michigan can't afford to let hap-
pen if it plans to grab a second
straight Sweet 16 berth in the
NCAA Tournament.
"It wasn't a lack of focus," Ber-
que said, "But it was a feeling sor-
ry-for-yourselves mentality that
hurt us."
Berque hopes his team can be
more resilient and competitive
next weekend as Michigan hosts
Harvard at the Varsity Tennis
Center.
"The level of our abilities hasn't
changed," Berque said. "We need
to remember we played against
some great competition. Ifwe start
to practice better and continue to
stay confident, we'll be fine."

if sASECON AWA
* Catchers proves herself as legitimate a; Minnesota banked a 3-pointer in the wan-
offensive threat in the Michigan softball ing moments to squeak past the struggling
a' team's impressive weekend. Page 3B. Michigan women's basketball team. Page 2B.

i


I

2B - February 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wolverines need to look to the
future to salvage this season

ROB MIGRIN/Da iy
The Michigan baseball team's games in Florida should be on your vacation itinerary
The ultimate
Michigaan sports
S ing Bea

Spring Break is coming in a
few short days, and if you're
anything like my house-
mates and me, you still have no
plans.
Luckily, the Michigan Athletic
Department
has your back.
It turns out that
a week of driv-
ing around the
country follow-
ing Michigan
sports teams
could turn into NATE
a pretty good SANDALS
trip.
DAY 1: While you're stuck in
town Thursday night waiting for
your one friend who has a Friday
class, check out the Big Ten Wom-
en's Swimming and Diving Cham-
pionships at Canham Natatorium
(next to the IM Building).
Canham is heated to feel like a
tropical island, so it's practically
the same thing as the Caribbean.
Also, watching the 10-meter plat-
form diving isn't all that different
from cliff jumping in Jamaica.
DAY 2: Friday afternoon, head
south to Columbus to take in a
Michigan hockey game against
Ohio State. Walking up and down
High Street always feels like
Spring Break - if you normally
end up fearing for your life in a
cold-weather climate for vacation.
DAY 3: Now, we head into the
best stretch of your Michigan
sports road trip. From Columbus,
start driving south. You need to
make it to Tallahassee, Fla., by 10
a.m. on Saturday. Google Maps
says it should only take about 13
hours, so leave straight from the
hockey game and don't stop driv-
ing, not even for bathroom breaks.
If you follow these instructions,
you should reach the Florida State
campus in time for the Michigan
softball team's game against East
Carolina.
DAY 4: It's a shorter trip today,
driving south to St. Petersburg to
watch the Michigan baseball team
play St. John's at 1 p.m. Nothing
says Spring Break like baseball.
What's the difference between
Spring Break and spring training?

Just one word.
The game should be over by the
late afternoon, so take the rest of
the day to check out some of the
great sights in the St. Petersburg/
Tampa area. I won't pretend to
know what any of those are, but
I'm sure you can find them.
DAY 5: Congratulations, Michi-
gan Athletic Department, you've
ruined this trip by not having any
teams scheduled to play on Mon-
day, Feb. 23. Well, you're already
in Florida, so there's just one thing
to do: Disney World.
The "most magical place on
Earth" is less than two hours
away. There will probably be tons
of Wolverine fans and alums at
Disney World. Of course, most of
them will be there with their small
children.
DAY 6: Now, you have to make
a choice. You could head back to
Tallahassee for another Michigan
softball game, or you could get
a head start on the trip south for
the women's tennis match against
Miami on Thursday.
If you really like softball, go for
it. But two days on South Beach,
plus a tennis match - you can't go
wrong.
The rest of the trip will probably
be a haze once you get to Miami.
Crazy stuff happens there. Be safe,
and don't forget to make it to the
tennis match. Remember that you
have to be back in class on Monday
and it takes about 21 hours to get
back to Ann Arbor from Miami.
And if you're still looking for
some Michigan sports teams to
watch on your way home, you
might want to swing by Blooming-
ton for the women's track and field
Big Ten Indoor Championships.
By the time you get back to Ann
Arbor, you will have driven for
about two days total.
And you'll probably have seen
more non-revenue Michigan
sports in one week than most stu-
dents will in four years.
It should be fun.
- If anyone actually attempts
this trip, Sandals would like to
hear about it. He can be reached
at nsandals( umich.edu.

Reynolds has
notched 34 points in
the last two games
for Blue
T here's a changing of
the guard coming for
the Michigan women's
basketball
team. RYAN
Michigan KARTJE
coach Eevin won'
Borseth's On women s
team had basketball
an excess of
experience with four seniors in
the starting lineup, and there's
never a shortage of leadership on
the floor.
But with a once-comanding
lead beginning to dwindle last
night against Minnesota, Borseth
decided to go with fresh legs. Not
because his senior leaders were
tired, but because they had lost
their rhythm.
And after losses in nine of
their last 10 games, the Wolver-
ines have ridden the rhythm from
a 7-4 non-conference start into
the Big Ten basement.
So in desperate need of a play-
maker last night, Borseth didn't
turn to one of his veteran start-
ers. He turned to a freshman who
had played just nine minutes in
the team's first five games.
With the way forward Carmen
Reynolds has been playing lately,
leading Michigan (3-11,10-15) in
scoring with 34 points in the last
two games, she deserves a spot in
the starting lineup. With Reyn-
olds on the court, the Wolverines
don't have to wait for rhythm to
find them. She creates rhythm for
them.
"She's good in traffic,"
Borseth said last week. "She can
shoot well. She passes well. She
sees the floor. She's got really
good hands ... She's just able to
make some real quick decisions
that most players aren't able to
make."
Borseth has made it clear sev-
eral times in his two seasons at
Michigan that without rhythm
and quick playmaking, this team
won't succeed.
"Shooting is all about rhythm,"
Borseth said after losing to Mich-
igan State in the WNIT quarter-
finals last season. "If you can't
get rhythm shots, they're hard to
make."
At Big Ten Media Day in Octo-

4

4

WLL
Freshman Carmen Reynolds has scored 34 points in the last two games to lead the Michigan offensive attack.

ber, Bo
guard,
one of1
offensi
his "flo
TI
abo
a
abo
But1
scorers
be at tI
Minnfi
tor's ro
team li
should
over in

rseth said senior point season with victories against.
Jess Minnfield would be ranked Notre Dame and Van-
the keys to making that derbilt, in which she carried the
ve rhythm thrive. She was team on her shoulders.
or general". But with the offense faltering
and no threat of dribble penetra-
tion into the paint, Minnfield
and fellow senior Carly Benson
his team isn't have been forced to throw up
ill-advised shots from behind
ut the seniors the arc. In a 45-40 loss to rival
n Michigan State, Benson and Min-
nymore. IS ofield combined to shoot 6-of-23
ut the future. from 3-point range. Even Spar-
tan coach Suzy Merchant said
that was the cause of Michigan's
downfall.
It's becoming increasingly
Minnfield is not the pure clear that this team isn't about
that Borseth wanted her to the seniors anymore. It's about
he beginning of the season. the future.
eld excelled in a distribu- With eight minutes remaining
le last season, running the in the game and the momen-
ke any pure point guard tum finally shifting back in
. That mentality carried Michigan's favor, the Wolverines
to the beginning of this looked like their offense was

coming together.
Sophomore Veronica Hicks
stole a floating pass and charged
down towards the basket. Hicks
tossed the ball into Reynolds'
hands for an alley-oop layup.
On the following play, Reyn-
olds returned the favor with a
steal and a long pass to Hicks at
the other end for an easy lay-in.
Now that's what you call
rhythm.
On the Michigan sideline,
Borseth looked up after the four-
point swing and smiled like he
rarely does during a game. Sure,
he didn't know the Wolverines
would lose the game in the last
minute like they have so many
times this season, and that smile
would disappear soon enough.
But for a second, Borseth saw
the future in Reynolds and the
rest of the young supporting staff.
And it sure looked like something
to smile about.

4

I

'M' drops another heartbreaker at home

4

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
DailySports Writer
Apparently, in Minnesota, the
bank is open on Sundays.
Golden Gopher junior guard
Brittney McCoy banked a 3-point-
er off the backboard with just
1.9 seconds left in the Michigan
women's basketball team's game
last night at Crisler Arena.
The
basket MINNESOTA 60
clinched MICHIGAN 59
a 60-59
win for the Gophers (10-4 Big
Ten, 18-7 overall), and caused the
Wolverines' record in their last 12
games to fall to 2-10.
Only momentsearlier, it seemed
as though Michigan (3-11, 10-15)
had secured the victory when
Minnesota senior guard Emily
Fox, the team's leading scorer,
fouled out, after jostling senior
Jessica Minnfield.
"Minnfield was the last person
we wanted to foul, because she's
shooting a ridiculous percentage
at the free throw line," Minnesota
coach Pam Borton said.
With 15 seconds left and a
chance to extend the Wolverines'
one-point lead, Minnfield calmly
walked to the line and knocked
down the first shot from the char-
Receive up to
S i u en rING , Seiv
Students receive en ad

defense that led the charge.
"It's almost like a man
(defense)," Michigan coach Kevin
Borseth said. "Like a chasing man
(defense)."
In the zone, Minnesota's top
two defenders wreaked havoc
on the Wolverine guards, forc-
ing them to make bad passes and
quick, ill-advised decisions.
The Gophers were coming off a
bye week which they used to work
on their stifling zone defense, hop-
ing to create more offense from
their defense. It worked. They
forced 22 Michigan turnovers that
resulted in 27 of their 60 points.
The game had all the makings
of a blowout when the Wolver-
ines took a 13-point lead, but the
Gophers went on a 17-2 run in the
final six minutes of the first half.
And in a game that was depen-
dent on runs, that one was crucial,
giving Minnesota a two-point
lead heading into halftime. Even
though the Michigan outscored
the Gophers 35-34 in the second
half, Minnesota's feeble 2-point
cushion at halftime gave them the
necessary padding needed.
As the team sinks lower in the
Big Ten standings, Borseth can
take comfort in the fact that his
underclassmen are stepping up.
Against Minnesota, freshman
Carmen Reynolds led the under-
classmen with 14 points.
"They've lost a lot of close
games and I don't think their
record indicates what type of
basketball team they are," Bor-
ton said. "They are very balanced.
They got shooters. They got great
post players. They got kids that
can get in the lane.
"I think it's just a matter of
time (before they) put things
together."
NOTE: Michigan donned pink-
and-white uniforms as a part of
the WBCA's Pink Zone initiative
to raise money and awareness for
breast cancer. The team auctioned
off these uniforms, and did other
fundraisers to raise money for the
University of Michigan Women's
Health Program.

WILL MOELLER/Daily
Senior Jessica Minnfield missed two crucial free throws in the final 15 seconds.
ity stripe. But the 83-percent free hit the heel of the basket and
throw shooter uncharacteristi- clanked off towards the left side
cally missed the second. The ball of the court.
Racing down her own
rebound, Minnfield secured the
ball before being fouled by junior
( E.Katie Ohm. And Minnfield once
e 9 vE ,.again stood at the line hoping
be::,-,:fl wie_ L y and os to extend the lead out of the
Gophers' reach.
But this time, she missed to the
right. Minnesota junior forward
Ashley Ellis-Milan grabbed the
board and quickly outletted the
3 ball to McCoy, who raced down the
court for the game-winningshot.
"It seemed like we were doing
everything we could to lose that
35% off! basketball game today." Borton
CHE[L En[ *jU P said. "And we got a break at the
K G +I t-W end. That's all it was."
I PLLAIM Although Minnesota may have
ditionel 10% r won the game on McCoy's last-
second shot, it was the Gophers'
suffocating 2-3 trapping zone


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

February 16, 2009 - 3B

Back-end players carry
Blue in Big Ten matches
Wolverines find believes the success this weekend
will help build the team's confi-
success in new dence for the rest of the spring
season, even with the loss to the
match-play format Hoosiers.
"We didn't give it to (Indiana),"
By NICK SPAR Sapp said. "They just kind of took
For the Daily it. We're pleased with the way the
guys played. We're sad that we
The Michigan men's golf team didn't take home the big crystal
sent a clear message to the rest of trophy and win this championship,
the Big Ten this weekend. but there are a lot of positive things
In the first-ever Big Ten Match that we can draw from this week."
Play Championship, the Wolver- The Big Ten is the first con-
ines' first tournament of the spring ference to implement the same
season, Michigan fell to No. 11 match-play format as the NCAA
Indiana in the finals, 3.5-2.5, after Golf Championship. In match play,
defeating No. 7 Illinois in the semi- all six golfers for each team have a
finals by the same score. The Hoo- greater impact on the outcome of
siers and Fighting Illini were the the match because the results of
only ranked teams in the tourna- each individual count. Typically, in
ment at The Heron Bay Golf Club stroke play, just the top-four scores
in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. count.
All eleven teams in the Big Ten The match-play format helped
participated in the event. Before Michigan this weekend, because
this weekend, the Wolverines had the Wolverines' back-end players'
not finished second or better in a outplayed their opponents' back-
Big Ten Championship meet since end players throughout the tour-
1980. nament.
Michigan's two matches Satur- Thompson, Michigan's No. 5
day came down to the final holes player, and junior Ross Millman,
against a pair of top-15 teams. Michigan's No. 6 player, both beat
In match play, scoring is decided their competition against Illinois.
per hole. A golfer earns one point The play of the duo ultimately car-
if he beats his counterpart and half ried Michigan past the Fighting
a point if a golfer halves his match. Illini and into the finals.
Each team can earn six points, The Wolverines began the week- 1
one for each of the six individual end by overpowering Iowa 4-2 in
matches. the quarterfinals, and Thompson
Freshman Matt Thompson won and Millman each won against
all three of his matches on the Iowa. FILE PHOTO
weekend and received All-Tourna- "We have probably the best Sophomore Alexander Sitompul and the Michigan golf team finished No. 2.
ment honors. (No.) 5 and (No. 6) players in the
"I think we're all happy with conference," Sapp said. "So I think the guys that are teeing off behind This weekend, the No.1 through
how we did," Thompson said. from that standpoint, our depth them." No. 4 players had a combined 3-5-4
"Unfortunately, we couldn't come hopefully is going to be the thing In May's Big Ten Champion- record in the three matches, which
out with the victory, but it was a that helps us. For those two guys to ships, the Wolverines will play a would need to improve in order for
good way to start the spring." really kick us off with wins kind of stroke-play format, just as they the Wolverines to finish in the top
Michigan coach Andrew Sapp helps ease the pressure on some of have every year since 1980. two in May.
Todd shines on SeniorDay

Senior Tiffany Ofili won her fifth straight 60-meter hurdles race
Ofili excels
in hurdl-es

i

'5


'M' topples Penn
State, sends its three
seniors out with big-
time Big Ten win
By MIKE FLOREK
DailySports Writer
In the dimlylitCliff KeenArena,
fifth-year senior Tyrel Todd came
out of the tunnel at a speed any
sprinter would be proud of and met
his weak-in-the-knees freshman
opponent in the center of the mat.
This one meant a little more.
Todd scored a pin in a 31-6 win
for No. 17 Michigan (4-1-1 Big Ten,
9-7-1 overall) over No. 24 Penn
State (1-5-2,8-11-2) onSenior Night.
Three seniors were in the starting
lineups for the Wolverines.
"I've thought about our senior
night since my freshman year,"
Todd said. "People ask you how
you want to go out, and I couldn't
have pictured it much different."
Todd's fall came one minute and
38 seconds into his match. That is
his third pin in as many matches
and his team-leading ninth this
season.
"I'm telling myself, 'I'm pinning
myself through the Big Ten, pin-
ning my way through nationals,'"
Todd said. "I'm getting pretty good
with this head scoop, and guys

Luke, the top 174-pounder in the
nation, established a three-point
lead before allowing 16th-ranked
Quentin Wright to take him down
and get back into the match. But
Luke scored an escape and kept
his undefeated streak intact at 22
matches.
"I've won a lot of close matches
in my college career," Luke said.
"I think that's what separates the
average wrestler from the good
wrestler. You just have to figure
out how to win matches."
Watts, ranked 17th at 125
pounds, fell behind early but even-
tually came back.
After throwing his opponent
to the ground with a thump loud
enough for it to echo throughout
the arena and bring the crowd to
its feet, he scored two points for a
near-fall to take a two-point lead.
But Penn State's No.13 Brad Pat-
aky let that lead last only eleven
seconds as he took the bout 11-9.
"(Watts) had struggled with him
in those first periods," McFarland
said. "But Mike got himself back in
that match, he just got caught in a
cement mixer there at the end and
lost a tough one."
Michigan's win seemed sec-
ondary in a night that seemed to
revolve around just three people.
"Those three seniors that wres-
tled today, we're proud to have
them in our program." McFarland
said.

TheI
en's tra
the Rar
sas, the
in the:
onships
They
third p
indoors
The
ines re
Thursd
The m
to gaou
nationa
"It,
meet,"
Henry
there w
differei
the sac
been ru
The
hosted
onship:
champi
center]
the run
slow do
buildin
"Ou
petition
solid at
Henry
outstai
WILD
From
In o
with fe
before
layup I
emy N
15 seco
by Lee
the Wi
"We
we are
for thi;
an area
tough'
you're1
ROA
From
Michig
only te
in con
"Wh
not pl
the Po
else is
not lik
win on
doing
body e
lar bas

enior remains The Wolverines faced off against
unbeaten in No. 2 Tennessee, No. 5 Louisiana,
No.8 Florida State, No.10 Penn State
0-meter event and host team No.12 Arkansas.
Michigan held its own against
some of the year's toughest compe-
By AMY SCARANO tition.
Daily Sports Writer In the non-scoring meet, the
Wolverines won two events. Senior
last time the Michigan wom- co-captain Tiffany Ofili won the
ck and field team competed at 60-meter hurdles (8.05 seconds), an
ndal Tyson Center in Arkan- NCAA automatic qualifying time.
Wolverines were competing Ofili has won the 60-meter hur-
2008 NCAA Indoor Champi- dles in all five of her meets this sea-
s. son.
y finished that competition in "Tiffany didn't have the time she
lace, Michigan's highest-ever was looking for, but the goal at this
finish. point is beating bodies, so she did
fourth-ranked Wolver- that and did well," Henry said.
turned to Fayetteville, Ark., At last year's Tyson Invitational,
ay for the Tyson Invitational. Ofili captured an NCAA Title when
eet allowed the Wolverines she broke the then-program record
ge their performance on a in the event with a time of 7.49 sec-
al stage. onds.
was our national tune-up "I would be disappointed if all
Michigan coach James my athletes didn't win," Henry
said. "The purpose of going said. "But if Tiffany didn't win, that
vas to compete against totally would be the biggest disappoint-
nt athletes and to compete on ment because she has been perfect
ne track that Nationals have thus far. We hope she continues to
in on." win."
Randal Tyson Center has Sophomore Kaitlyn Peale won
the NCAA Indoor Champi- the 5,000-meter run (17:14.10). In
s nine times and will hold the addition, the Wolverines picked up
ionships again in 2010. The seven top-five finishes, including
has a banked track, allowing three NCAA provisional marks.
iners to speed up rather than The Wolverines will continue
)wn as they go into turns. The preparing for the NCAA Indoor
g also holds 7,000 spectators. Championships on March 13-14.
r goal was to have good com- This year, the meet will be held at
n and good atmosphere and Texas A & M's Anderson Track and
hletes, andwemetourgoals," Field Complex, but Michigan will
said. "The atmosphere was be ready to compete at Arkansas
nding." come 2010.
)CATS Not only did Michigan triumph
page1lB over fatigue, it proved down the
stretch why it leads the Big Ten in
free-throw percentage (76.1 per-
vertime, Michigan led by six cent). The Wolverines shot 8-of-0
wer than two minutes to go from the charity stripe in overtime.
Coble scored five straight. A Harris's performance overshad-
by Northwestern guard Jer- owed the rest of the Wolverines.
ash cut the lead to one with Redshirt freshman Laval Lucas-
)ds left, but two free throws Perry added 10 points and junior
four seconds later held off DeShawn Sims chipped in with
ldcats. eight.
wentback to just how tough With each of Michigan's remain-
and how we've conditioned ing five regular-season games
s," Beilein said. "And this is having NCAA Tournament impli-
a that we've worked at, being cations, the Wolverines better hope
when there's adversity, when Harris doesn't forget what it feels
tired." like to be in the zone again.
D WIN Sneak peak: Beilein got to
page 1B Welsh-Ryan a little early. A night
before Michigan's game against
Northwestern, the Michigan
gan State and Purdue are the coach sat in the crowd to watch a
sms with a winning record high school game, according to the
ference road games. Chicago Tribune.
sen we're on the road, we're He used the trip as an opportu-
aying the Little Sisters for nity to watch 6-foot-6 high school
or," Beilein said. "Nobody junior Alex Dragicevich from
going in there, either. It's Glenbrook North High School.
e we're only team that can't Dragicevich led his team with 31
the road. Michigan State is points.Ten. Michigan State and
a great job. Show me some- Purdue are the only teams with a
Ise who is doing it on a regu- winning record in conference road
is." games.

W ILL MOELLER/Daly
Senior Tyrel Todd won his last meet of his Michigan career in Cliff Keen Arena.

know it's coming. But they can't
stop it."
The blowout was a welcome
change for the Wolverines after
Friday's match, when No. 6 Ohio
State overwhelmed the Wolver-
ines 26-17 in a packed Cliff Keen
Arena.
Michigan was up 14-8 more than
halfway through the meet, but
repeated cries of "O-H-I-O" filled
the arena by the end of the match.
The loss also snapped Michigan's
four-match unbeaten streak in the

Big Ten.
"It was a little disappointing last
nightbecause at thathalfway point,
we felt like we were in control of
the meet and it slipped away from
us," Michigan coach Joe McFar-
land said. "To be able to come back
tonight and wrestle the way we did
and have the kind of score that we
did is pretty impressive."
The Wolverines' other two
starting seniors, Steve Luke and
Michael Watts, finished their
matches differently.

SOFTBALL
St. Clair's hot bat spurs Wolverines

ByIAN KAY bases on a series of BYU fielding
DailySports Writer miscues. The run proved to be the
difference in a 4-2 Michigan win.
Junior catcher Roya St. Clair Against Louisville (6-1) later
wasn't much of a run producer for Friday afternoon, St. Clair single-
the Michigan softball team last sea- handedly powered Michigan to a
son. 3-2 victory over Louisville. Her
In 60 games, she tallied only six solo homer over the leftfield fence
runs scored and15 RBI. and a pair of RBI singles account-
But if this weekend is any ed for all three Wolverine runs.
indication, St. Clair will be a key The Cardinals threatened to tie
component in the sixth-ranked the game with a runner on second
Wolverines' 2009 offense. and one out in the sixth inning, but
St. Clair racked up seven hits Michigan coach Carol Hutchins
and 9 RBI in 15 at bats as Michigan brought on sophomore pitcher
won four of its five games at the Jordan Taylor in relief of junior
Louisville Slugger Desert Classic Nikki Nemitz. Taylor faced six
in Henderson and Las Vegas, Nev. batters over the final 1.2 innings
In Friday's opening game and struck out five, slamming the
against Brigham Young (5-3), she door on Lousville's comeback.
knocked in Michigan's first two Both games were played at local
runs of the tournament with a Stephanie Lynn Craig Park, creat-
second-inning double down the ing a nostalgic feel.
rightfield line. The Cougars tied "it reminded all of us of playing
the game in the top of the fifth, in travel ball before we got to col-
but Michigan (8-2) answered in lege," Bausher said.
the bottom of the inning. Junior For Bausher, a Las Vegas native,
centerfielder Molly Bausher sin- the weekend was especially mem-
gled then advanced around the orable. For many of her family and

friends, it was the first opportu-
nity in three years to see her play
college softball.
"I didn't even know that some of
my parents' friends and my friends
came," she said. "I don't look up
intothestands and look forthemso
I had no idea they were even there.
But after the game they came over
and said hi and I was like 'Wow,
thanks for coming!"'
But the laid-back atmosphere
of Friday's games was short-lived.
On Saturday, Michigan faced its
toughest tests of the young season,
taking on No. 16 DePaul and No. 4
UCLA at UNLV's Eller Media Sta-
dium.
The Wolverines struggled to
come up with clutch hits against
DePaul. After the Demons
tagged Taylor for four runs, two
unearned, in the top of the first,
Michigan managed at least one
hit every inning. But it pushed just
three runs across the plate. Down
5-3 in their final chance at the
plate, Michigan loaded the bases
with one out. Nemitz struck out

swinging, bringing up St. Clair
as the Wolverines' final chance.
For the only time all weekend, the
catcher left her teammates disap-
pointed, flying out to left field.
But the bitter taste of being
upset didn't stay with Michigan
for long - it passed it on to UCLA
just a few hours later.
Taylor wasn't her usual bril-
liant self, but she held the Bru-
ins to four runs in seven innings.
That was enough to garner the
'W,' especially with another big
hit from St. Clair, who redeemed
herself with a teo-run double to
center field to tie the game in the
fourth inning. Bausher gave her
fans something to cheer for with
two hits, including an RBI double
of her own.
"It puts you in a more com-
petitive mindset," Bausher said of
playing ranked teams.
Michigan will have to get used
to that mindset. They play three
games against No. 2 Florida and
ACC powerhouse Florida State
within the next 10 days.

- UARTS 250 -
CREATIVE PROCES
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
residency at the Abbey of Pontievoy,
FRANCE
May 18 -June 12, 2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Satiei the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Tuesday, Febr ry 17, S:00pm,Art & Architecture Bldg. Room
Wednea y, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making Crea Ivity an integral part of students' lives and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
M UEARTH
This course is supported by the University of Michigans MultidisciplinaryLearningand Team Teaching Initiative


14

4B - February 16, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

M' notches
four NCAA
provisionals

.tip
T s
1
y ,
FYr

ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily

Sophomore Carl Hagelin scored a Friday night goal in front of his father Boris, who traveled from Sweden to see his son play this weekend.

Nine Wolverines score in sweep

Barnes, Pruitt,
McNamara and
Forys light up
Akron Open
By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
Afterbeingnamed anAll-Amer-
ican as a junior in 2008, sprinter
Andre Barnes was relegated to
the sidelines with an ankle injury
for the first six weeks of his final
indoor season.
But his recent return to the
Michigan men's track and field
team and his continuing return to
All-American form gave the 13th-
ranked Wolverines a much-need-
ed boost at the non-scoring Akron
Open on Saturday.
Michigan coach Fred LaPlante
described his team's performance
as a "mixed bag," and somewhat
emblematic of this year's indoor
season, but Barnes helped the
team leave Ohio on a high note.
After a day in which he ran a
49.67-second 400-meter dash,
subpar by his standards, the West
Bloomfield native picked up the
pace and helped Michigan blow
away the field in the 4x400-meter
relay. The relay team's 3:13.05 time
in the finals was nearly three sec-
onds ahead of second-place East-
ern Michigan.
LaPlante was very encour-
aged by his team's relay win, but
he was disappointed that Ohio
State withdrew from the event
at the last minute. According to
LaPlante, the Buckeyes have one
of the best 4x400 relay teams in
the nation, and the competition
would have helped with the Big
Ten Championship meet looming

in two weeks.
"We were hoping they'd run in
it because we knew we'd run faster
if they were in it," LaPlante said.
"You usually run your best 4x400s
when two or three teams are fight-
ing the whole way. That's where
you set the really great marks.
"There's nothing wrong with
winning by alot, but usually your
best times are going to come in
those kind of situations."
LaPlante said Barnes's contin-
ued progress will also be impor-
tant for the Big Ten meet, given
how evenly matched the teams
have been this season.
"He's talented enough and
doing enough training that in
two weeks, he will be close to his
best," LaPlante said. "Once you've
achieved at a high level, if you've
done enough work and you're
mentally ready, it's amazing how
you can rise to the occasion."
Redshirt junior thrower Sean
Pruitt recorded the other win of
the day by winning the shot put
with the fifth-longest throw in
school history. The throw was his
second NCAA provisional mark
of the season. Pruitt also earned
a provisional on Jan. 17 in "The
Dual" against Ohio State in the
weight throw by breaking Michi-
gan's school record.
Distance runners Sean McNa-
mara and Craig Forys also had
big weekends at the Husky Invi-
tational in Seattle by running d
career-best times that netted each
runner an NCAA provisional time
in the 3,000-meter and 5,000-me-
ter events.
Next Saturday's Silverston
Invitational at the Indoor Track
Building will be the last home
meet of the indoor season and a
final tune-up for the conference
championship meet.

'M' secures first-
round bye in CCHA
Tournament with
series sweep
By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
It takes alot to get Michigan hock-
ey coach Red Berenson to smile.
Friday's 8-3 win over Nebraska-
Omaha? Nope.
"I'm a hard coach to play for and
I'm a hard coach to please," Beren-
son said after the game.
What about Saturday's thrill-
ing come-from-behind 4-2 victory,
which guaranteed a top-four finish
in the CCHA and a bye in the con-
ference tournament? No smile, but
he was more upbeat when describ-
ing his team's effort.
Berenson was pleased his players
clawed back into the contest after
facing a 2-0 deficit and a steady
stream of penalties. He offered
many criticisms, but one positive
comment may have been the most
important for Michigan to hear.
"This is team time of the year,"
Berenson said. "It doesn't matter
that your leading scorers are the
goal-getters. ... The team is cotaing
together."
It's a far cry from the early
games of the season, when just a
few forwards scored most of the
Wolverines' goals. But what is hap-
pening now - nine different play-
EISENSTEIN
From page 1B
they come down the stretch. At
this point last season, Michigan's
eventual Frozen Four-bound
team had six double-digit scorers,
including two who combined for
49 goals.
This year, the Wolverines have
just four, with one over 20. And
the difference between the two

ers lit the lamp this weekend - is
exactly what the Michigan coach-
ing staff predicted at the beginning
of the season: scoring by committee.
Everybody is stepping up, and not
just on offense.
Saturday's comeback displayed
this whole-hearted effort. Michigan
was on the penalty kill for most of
the first period, scrambling to block
shots and clear pucks. Senior goalie
Billy Sauer started
for the first time
since Jan. 17 and
faced an onslaught "This 1
of tough shots.
It all started tim
with a major penal-
ty called on senior e y
forward Titm Mill-
er for kneeing just Berens
six minutes into
the contest. Two
minutes into the
major, a Wolverine boarding pen-
alty gave Nebraska-Omaha a 5-on-3
advantage.
The Mavericks found the back of
the net twice within30 seconds dur-
ing the stretch. The first goal came
off a rebound and beat Sauer glove-
side, and the second was a laser that
tipped off the netminder's glove.
Michigan killed another 5-on-3
later in the period and the team took
a total of eight penalties in the first
21 minutes of the game. The high
number of penalties burdened the
Wolverines' typically solid penalty-
kill unit and disrupted the team's
substitution pattern.
"It's physically and emotionally
seasons in offensive output thus
far is just nine goals through 32
games.
What do all those numbers
mean? Michigan is getting con-
sistent scoring from each of its
lines. When Caporusso doesn't
find the back of the net, Glenden-
ing can step up and score one -
or two.
"This is team time of the year,
and it doesn't matter that your
leading scorers are the goal get-

draining," sophomore forward Matt
Rust said. "Anytime you can't get
your whole team rolling out there,
it's tough. It makes the game so
choppy."
The comeback began late in the
second period as the team stopped
takingpenalties and the offense final-
ly found rhythm on even strength.
"When we're playing five-on-
five, I think we're a tremendous
team," junior act-
ing captain Chris
Summers said. "We
.s team stopped playing
to the refs, and we
e of started playing our
,, game, and I think
ear, that was thebiggest
. difference."
on said. Two goals with
less than five min-
utes remaining in
the second frame
knotted the game at two, and Mich-
igan appeared destined for its first
overtime of the season after back-
and-forth play for most of the third.
But freshman walk-on forward
Luke Glendeningdidn't let that hap-
pen. With 4:28 left in regulation, he
streaked up the right side of the ice,
received a pass from sophomore for-
ward Logie Caporusso and flicked
in the game-winner. Glendening
eventually added an empty-netter
in the game's final minute.
"Even though we were two goals
down, I think our team was confi-
denttthattheycould get one back and
then another one, and that's kind of
what happened," Berenson said. "I
ters," Berenson said. "It doesn't
matter who scores, you just need
goals."
This mentality has translated
into a 10-2 second-half run and
catapulted the Wolverines from a
middle-of-the-pack CCHA team
to tied for second in the PairWise
ratings.
The ratings are used in deter-
mining NCAA Tournament seed-
itng.
More importantly, Michigan

thought our team stayed in the game
and played hard despite the officiat-
ing and despite the adversity."
The Wolverines haven't had many
of these types of games. Michigan is
just 7-8 on the season when giving
up the first goal. Of those victories,
many of them included first-period
comebacks, not ones in the game's
final minutes.
Rust said this kind of win couldn't
have come at a better time, with a big
series against Ohio State next week-
end and the postseason looming.
"It's good to give our team the
confidence that we can come back,
we can come from behind, we can
persevere," he said.
Michigan clinched a top-four fin-
ishin the CCHA withthe sweep and
Alaska's loss Friday. The Wolverines
will receive a first-round bye and
home-ice advantage for the CCHA
Tournament quarterfinal round in
early March.
But that doesn't mean they'll
relax. They want to push for a sec-
ond- or third-place finish, or at least
try to maintain the momentum
they've built up from winning 12 of
their last 14 contests.
"This time of year everybody's
good, everybody's playing hard,"
Berenson said. "We can't just sit
back and say, 'We've got more wins
than that team, so we'll beat them.'
You have to go out there and earn it.
You have to outwork them, outhit
them, outcheck them.
"This is what it's going to be like
every weekend. Hopefully we can
take our game to another level."
overtook Notre Dame in the Pair-
Wise this weekend. That means
the Wolverines would get the
edge over the Fighting Irish as
the No. 1 seed in the Grand Rapids
Regional, by far the closest loca-
tion to Ann Arbor.
And it's all because of one of
Michigan's strongest assets: its
depth.
-Eisenstein can be reached
at mseisen@umich.edu.

I

4

cHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Sophomore Craig Forys notched an NCAA provisional mark. The distance runner
came up big in the non-scoring Akron Open.

THINK YOU'RE AN EXPERT ON MICHIGAN SPORTS? WOMEN'S GYMNASTICS
WELL, PROVE IT. Zondervan clinches comeback
WRITE FOR DAILY SPORTS.,,_,__ 1

I

M
riv,

E-MAIL ANDYREID@UMICH.EDU.

ahbt ithia tn

1

The
en's gy
agains
rested
more T
Ente
tion, tI
State 1.
Afte
Michig
margin
six scot
the Wt
Zonder
night,,
missed
The
Wolvet
on floo
warme
and-a-1
But
a pro.
And

icnigan topples Michigan coach Bev Plocki and
Penn State in the rest of the Wolverines became
al more excited. The Schoolcraft
upset victory native earned a 9.875, and for the
sixth straight week, Michigan
won, upsetting No. 14 Penn State
By NICK COSTON 195.800-194.925.
Daily Sports Writer "Taylor got a chance to step up
and we were all very excited for
fate of the Michigan wom- her," sophomore Kylee Botterman
'mnastics team's comeback said. "Her routine was great."
t fierce rival Penn State Bottermanwas no slouch,either.
on the shoulders of sopho- She recorded the highest score of
'aylor Zondervan. the night on balance beam and tied
ring floor, their final rota- Sexton for first in the floor exer-.
he Wolverines trailed Penn cise, finishing just ahead of junior
46.825-146.650. Sarah Curtis in the all-around
r junior Jordan Sexton fell, with a career-best 39.325.
an competed with little "It was my highest all-around so
for error. Because five of far, which is exciting, but I'm more
res count for the team total, excited that as a team we're step-
olverines needed a hit from ping it up every weekend," Botter-
rvan or for the first time all man said. "We have some very
they'd be forced to count a difficult meets coming up and we
l routine. want to keep building."
catch? Zondervan, the sixth The Friday night nailbiter had
rine up, had never competed its own difficulties.
r in college. She hadn't even Michigan used just five vault-
d up her first pass, a two- ers, meaning it had to count all
half punch front. five scores on its opening event.
Zondervan performed like The Wolverines suffered one fall
each on the uneven bars, beam and
with each successful pass, floor, but didn't have to count any

of them.
Senior Becky Bernard contrib-
uted 9.800 scores on both her
events, bars and beam, turning
in a near-perfect bars routine
marred just by a step on the dis-
mount.
"We knew we would have some
ground to make up," Plocki said.
"These are the kind of competi-
tions that we want because it tests
your team and prepares us for the
championship season."
Unlike Michigan, Penn State
had to count a fall in its final rota-
tion.
The Nittany Lions' two falls on
the balance beam gave the Wolver-
ines just the opening they needed
to snatch the victory away.
But Michigan was just focused
on hitting floor.
"We don't pay attention to the
other team," Curtis said. "We can
only control what we do."
The Wolverines might have to
pay attention in their next meet,
though - Michigan's next com-
petition is Friday in Salt Lake City
against No. 1 Utah.
- Colt Rosensweig
contributed to this report.


