~Ii4l6diigan 0aitj

Ann Arbor, Michigan
FINDING A NEW ATHIETIC DIRETR
'U' releases
details about
AD search

Tuesday, November 24,2009

michigandaily.com

Beilein, Sullivan on
committee charged
with finding Bill
Martin's replacement
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Though speculation has swirled
rampantly about who will suc-
ceed Bill Martin as athlecic direc-
tor since Martin announced his
intention to retire next year, little
has been known about how his
successor would be chosen - until
yesterday.
Information about how Mar-
tin's successor will be selected was
posted on the Vice President for
Communication's website yester-
day morning. The posting answers
key questions about how the pro-
cess will work and who will be
involved in the search.
In an interview last month, Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man emphasized that she will seek
advice from a small advisory com-
mittee, but that the final decision
would be hers and hers alone.
Though at the time, Coleman
said she did not have a committee
assembled, the names of individ-
ual committee members who will
aid Coleman in the process were
released yesterday.
Provost Teresa Sullivan, Tim
Slottow, executive vice president
* and chief financial officer, and
men's basketball Head Coach John

Beilein will serve on the commit-
tee to advise Coleman. Addition-
ally, Education Prof. Percy Bates,
the faculty athletic representa-
tive, and Liz Barry, the managing
director of the Life Sciences Insti-
tute and a former University asso-
ciate vice president and deputy
general counsel, will serve on the
committee.
According to the information
posted online, committee mem-
bers were chosen because of "their
knowledge of particular aspects
of the athletic director role" and
because of Coleman's "respect for
their judgment."
To coordinate the search and
manage the application process,
the University has contracted with
an outside firm. The firm, Spencer
Stuart, is one of the world's;leading
executive search firms.
According to information
released yesterday, Spencer Stu-
art has assigned Jed Hughes, an
alum of the University, to lead the
firm's efforts in the search pro-
cess. Hughes is a senior partner-at
the firm and is responsible for the
company's sports-related searches.
Hughes spent 20 years coaching
intercollegiate and professional
football and has worked under five
Hall of Fame coaches, including Bo
Schembechler.
Yesterday's posting largely
avoided defining when the search
will be completed, citing only that
the search will cease once a candi-
date has been selected.
"The search will remain open
See SEARCH, Page 7

Democratic Gov. Jenriifer Granholm spoke yesterday at Eastern Michigan University about the future of the Michigan Promise Scholarship as part of her statewide tour
of college campuses. Granholm has been lobbying for the return of the Promise Scholarship since it was cut from the state's budget last month.
Granhoim pushes for Promise

Governor seeks
student support
during EMU event
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
YPSILANTI - Democratic
Goy. Jennifer Granholm' spoke
at Eastern Michigan University
yesterday morning as part of her
statewide tour of college cam-
puses in an effort to restore the
Michigan Promise Scholarship.
The Promise Scholarship -
which awarded students $500
to $4,000 based on performance
on a merit exam - was elimi-

nated from the state's budget last
month. Since she signed the final
budget bills that effectively cut
the scholarship, Granholm has
begun lobbying for the program's
return, an effort that includes her
current tour.
To a standing-room-only crowd
at the EMU Student Center, Gra-
nholm vehemently emphasized
the necessity of maintaining high-
er education funding in the state.
She said that inorder to transform
the state's dire economy, workers
must be better educated.
"If we double the number of
skilled adults who've got training
and vocational certification, then
we'll be the most educated state
in the nation," Granholm said. "If

we're the most educated state in
the nation, we will have the most
robust economy in the nation."
Granholm urged state repre-
sentatives to approve changes to
the Earned Income Tax Credit
that would provide the revenue
necessary to revive the Prom-
ise Scholarship. These changes
would free up $120 million to be
used at the state's discretion. Gra-
nholm's pitch is that these dollars
should go directly to funding the
scholarship.
The state legislature is cur-
rently in a two-week recess for
the fall deer hunting season and
the Thanksgiving holiday.
Students from Eastern Michi-
gan University and the University

of Michigan also spoke before the
crowd at the event, explaining
how the cut of the Promise Schol-
arship, is making it difficult for
them to pay for college.
LSA junior Nathaniel Root said
he is going to have to take classes
this summer to stay on track for
graduation because he needed to
take fewer classes and work more
hours this semester to pay for his
tuition, books and rent.
"I have to work almost 20
hours a week now as a full-time
student," Root said, "which has
led me to drop a class, which is
leaving me academically behind
in order for me to be on the pre-
medical track."
See GRANHOLM, Page 7

CAMPUS CRIME
AAPD probing incident at Chi Psi Forrest: Time to rethink

Fraternity president
would not confirm
details of incident
By JILLIAN BERMAN
Daily NewsEditor
Police are investigating an inci-
dent that occurred at Chi Psi fra-
ternity early Sunday morning, Chi

Psi president Michael Taub said in
an interview yesterday.
Detective Dave Monroe of the
Ann Arbor Police Department told
The Michigan Daily Sunday night
that police responded to a report
of alleged sexual assault at a party
on the 600 block of S. State Street
early Sunday morning.
Chi Psi is located at 620 S. State
Street, but Taub wouldn't confirm
that the incident under investiga-

tion is a sexual assault.
"There's not much that I can
say," he said. "The police have
investigated an incident that was
here."
Taub didn't have any informa-
tion that might identify the sus-
pect, but added that the suspect is
not a member of the fraternity.
"The person that this affects is
a person who is not affiliated at all
See CHI PSI, Page 7

campus transportation

Monorail among
transportation
options discussed
at SACUA meeting
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
DailyStaff'Reporter
Imagine travelingfrom Central
Campus to North Campus with-
out stepping on a bus or waiting
in traffic. While this currently

sounds like a far-off dream, it
could soon become a reality.
Stephen Forrest, the Uni-
versity's vice president for
research, spoke to the Senate
Advisory Committee on Uni-
versity Affairs yesterday about
transportation plans to move
faculty and students to the
North Campus Research Com-
plex and other areas on North
Campus in new, more innova-
tive ways.
"If you had a clean piece of
paper, what would you do?" he*

asked the faculty's leading gov-
erning body. "I'm pretty sure you
wouldn't come up with the situa-
tion that we have today."
Forrest said the opening of
the NCRC has forced the admin-
istration to look at new ways to
revamp transportation between
Central and North Campuses.
"It has made those problems
real and urgent," he said.
The NCRC is scheduled to
become fully operational for
research purposes this spring.
See SACUA, Page 7

PLAYING UP A CAUSE

Event focuses on state's changing economy

Health care, auto
industry execs. lead
discussion last night
By TORREY ARMSTRONG
Daily StaffReporter
Corporate perspectives held
sway in a discussion of health
insurance reform and the auto-
motive industry at Phi Chi Theta's
fifth annual economic sympo-
sium, "Our Economy Now," last
evening in the University of

Museum of Art in front of nearly
225 people.
Adriana Karaboutis, global
manufacturingandlaborrelations
information officer at General
Motors Corp., and Jim Slubowski,
chief investment officer and vice
presidentofenterprise operations
for Priority Health - a Michigan
health insurance company -
discussed how their respective
corporations have handled the
nation's economic crisis and how
the corporations plan to weather
the imminent changes within
their industries.

Karaboutis, who opened the
symposium, attributed GM's
downturn to a combination of
corporate hubris and uncontrol-
lable factors like sudden changes
in consumer behavior.
"For one thing, we thought we
were invincible. But for another,
the industryjust tanked on us," she
said, adding that over-confidence
gave way to caution as the com-
pany decided to accept the federal
government's bailout offer.
Karaboutis praised some of
Ford Motor Company's tactics for
See SYMPOSIUM, Page 7

AARON l U EUhSBUGRD
LSA freshman Katie Uckele holds a sign as part of a student protest yesterday to encourage President Barack Obama to
turn his attention to climate legislation.


WEATHER HI: 48
TOMORROW Lo 38

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM .
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Pres. Obama gives away educational video games.
news@michigandaily.com and letus know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEW S................. 2 A tTS.....S... ........................... 5
Vol. CXX, No, 54 SUDOKU............3 C LASSIFIEDS.. ...........6
(Q09yThe MichiganDaily OPINION............................. 4 SPORTS........... .... 8
michigondaily.com



2 - Tuesday, November 24, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: I WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:

MONDA:TEDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers OfteBenPh Campus Clubs Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
Bodies preserved in plastic

Tucked away on the third
floor of the Medical Science II
building sits a supply of painted
skulls and silicone-hardened
lungs.
The Plastination Lab, which
houses bodies preserved in plas-
tic, features shelves full of plas-
tinated body parts and gurneys
covered with white sheets pok-
ing out of different rooms.
Plastination is the preserva-
tion process by which water and
fat are replaced by certain types
of plastics.
Ameed Raoof, the lab's direc-
tor, said the lab gives medical
and dental students the chance
to learn how to perform various
procedures before operating on
a live human being.
"It provides plastinated
human anatomical specimens to
facilitate anatomical teaching

to medical, dental, undergrads
and residents," he said.
The lab receives about 10
to 20 donated bodies per year,
Raoof said. Once the body is
plastinated, it is preserved per-
manently, though donor fami-
lies can request the body to be
returned.
The plastination process can
take as little as two weeks for
only one organ, but it can take
up to six weeks to plastinate an
entire body.
To start the plastination pro-
cess, the body is first immersed
in acetone and then water is
removed from the body, Raoof
said.
The body is then placed in a
silicone tank, which also serves
as a vacuum chamber. The ace-
tone bubbles out as a result of
a pressure change and the sili-

cone is absorbed.
The tissue is then removed
and replaced with a catalyst,
which in turn, hardens the
organs.
The lab was created and
functions solely for educational
purposes.
"The three-dimensional
aspect makes anatomy much
easier to learn," Raoof said.
University and high school
students are welcome to come
to the lab, but Raoof said he
recommends they make an
appointment first.
The lab is staffed by two fac-
ulty members as well as 10 to 15
medical, dental and undergrad-
uate students who help dissect,
prepare specimens and conduct
research, he said.
- GRACELINBASKARAN

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
a *aca@michiga "daily."om" mdbasinsaygsai0com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:Sun.-Thurs.1 a.m..-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
News Tips e ws@mrichigandaily.com
corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
LetterstotheEditor rthedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaySales diplay@michigandaily.com 4
Classified Sales classifedomichigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacobamiloeiz MaenagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SN OR NES DITOSsatosl o n, JOll,,y ermn, TevrCaer,, en
ASIoSTANT EWSEDTORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS: EmmaJeszke, MatthewShutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
E O EITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
DvidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:Jamie Block,BrandonConradis,Whitney Pow
STANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,CarolynKlareckiAndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Oif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SEN[OR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsaah,Chanel Von Habiburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Sam wolson
AngelaChih and designomichigandaily.com
MaureenStych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com 4
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried,Adi Wollstein

0

}

I

CRIME NOTES
Car bleached Alcohol in the

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: 1600 East Medical
Center
WHEN: Sunday at about 7:05
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
an unknown subject poured
bleach on her car, University
Police reported. The car's paint
was damaged.

Dig HoUse

WHERE: Stadium Gate 4
WHEN: Saturday at about
11:35 a.m.
WHAT: A man was issued a
ticket for bringing alcohol into
the Big House during Satur-
day's football game, Univer-
sity Police reported. He was
thrown out of the stadium.


Wallet stolen
from Bursley Another wallet

Arts and
crafts night
WHAT: A free night of arts
and crafts with projects
including scarf decorat-
ing, jewelry making and
pumpkin painting.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from
8 p.m. to11 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Mug Room
E-mail and
RSS workshop
WHAT: A hands-on
workshop that teaches
students how to sync schol-
ary research collected from
library resources with e-mail
alert services and RSS feeds.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today from
4 p.m. to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Grad Library

WHERE: Bursley Residence Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 10:40
p.m.
WHAT:A student reported
his wallet stolen from his resi-
dence hall room, University
Police reported. There was no
evidence of a break-in. There
are no suspects.

stolen
WHERE: Medical Science Unit I
WHEN:Friday atabout10:40 a.m.
WHAT: A student reported
that her wallet was stolen from
an unattended desk, Univer-
sity Police reported. There are
no suspects.

CORRECTIONS
* A column in yester-
day's edition of the Daily
'A stake in health care
reform' incorrectly stated
that coverage according to
the Comprehensive Omni-
bus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1986 can extend for
six months for the cost of
the plan plus 5 percent. It
extends for 18 months for
the cost of the plan plus
an additional 2 percent.
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Hebrew lessons
An Oakland, Calif transit
WHAT:A class for students passenger was charged with
who know howsto decode 1 battery after a police officer
Hebrew but aren't familiar, pushed him into a glass window
with grammar and vocabulary. during an arrest, CNN reported.
WHO: Hillel A video captured the officer forc-
WHEN: Tonight ing the intoxicated passenger
from 7 to 8 p.m. into the window, which then
WHERE: Hillel shattered, injuring both men.

0

Forty-one universities
have biases that could
potentially corrupt
research, according to a recent
Department of Health and
Human Services report.
>>FOR MORE, SEEOPINION, PAGE 4
The New York City
DepartmentofHealth and
Mental Hygiene reported
that .00143% of the city's pop-
ulation was vaccinated against
HlNI this weekend, The Asso-
ciated Press reported. Despite
reportedly high demand and
turnout, weekend totals were
just 11,486 people.

BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak saleseManager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Moralescirculation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator

4

I

TherMichiganaiy (ISSN0745-967) ispub 5ldMondy thoughFridayduringttherfallad
winte temsby tdettthe Uiversity f Mchiga.aOercopyis avalable re of harg
to l eaerse,. Aditionalcopiemay bpkedpat t aiy'sffie foe,2. Subscriptions
fo r fa term ttng inSeptemere, via US.mai:arl$11. Wntrerme(Jenuaythrough
must be prpaid. The Mchigan Dlis a: inemer, ef The Asocated Presed The

t , - i

Corruption trial wrapping
up for ex-NY politician

Election massacre in the
Philippines leaves 24 killede

Jury will decide on
Senate Republican
leader Joseph Bruno
ALBANY,N.Y.(AP)-Thecorrup-
tion case of former New York Senate
Republican leader Joseph Bruno has
gone to the jury, which will decide
whether he used his power to line
his pockets and deprive New York-
ers of honest government.
U.S. District Judge Gary Sharpe
instructed jurors late yesterday on
the eight fraud counts, saying they
must determine whether or not
Bruno schemed to defraud New
Yorkers and misrepresented or con-
cealed his sideline business dealings.
Deliberationsbegin today.

Prosecutors allege the longtime
Senate GOP majority leader - once
a top power broker in New York -
used his state influence to enrich
himself by $3.2 million over 13
years. He solicited union pension
fund business for two investment
companies and helped three private
businessmen with technology and
construction businesses who paid
him as a consultant.
"Conflicts of interest resulted
from a scheme by Senator Bruno to
exploit his position for his personal
compensation and enrichment,"
Assistant U.S. Attorney William
Pericak said in closing arguments
yesterday. "He was one of the three
most powerful men in New York
state. He knew that everyone knew
that. They knew he had the power to

make things happen in New York."
Pericak argued that Bruno was
required to clearly and publicly
disclose his business interests and
associates, who benefited from posi-
tions Bruno took on legislation and
grants.
"Probably much of what he did
was good," the prosecutor said. But
he added that the public has a right
to a public official's disinterested
decision-making or else full knowl-
edge of his conflicts of interest.
Bruno, 80, retired last year after
32 years in the Senate and more
than 13 years as the leader of its
Republican majority. Like most of
the state's legislators, who are con-
sidered part time and earn at least
$79,500 annually, he had other
income.

Gunman ambushes
caravan of political
supporters, journalists
MANILA, Philippines (AP) -
Gunmen ambushed a caravan of
political supporters and journalists
on their way to file election papers,
killing at least 24 people in a mas-
sacre considered shocking even
for a region notorious for violence
between rival clans.
The National Union of Journalists
of the Philippines said at least10 local
reporters were part of yesterday's
convoy, but police spokesman Leon-
ardo Espina said today that authori-
ties had identified the remains of only
one so far.
Their newspapers and radio sta-
tions have not been able to reach
any of the journalists, raising fears
that they were killed. If confirmed, it
would be the "largest single massacre
of journalists ever," according to Par-

is-based Reporters Without Borders.
"Covering the news has always
been dangerous in the Philippines,
but the wanton killing of so many
people makes this an assault on the
very fabric of the country's democ-
racy," said Bob Dietz, Asia program
coordinator for the Committee to
Protect Journalists in New York.
The president's office termed yes-
terday's attackthe worstpolitical vio-
lence in recent history. Many among
the 24 dead were women, including
two lawyers, Espinasaid.
Police said the convoy of 40people
was going to register Ismael Mangu-
dadatu to run for provincial governor
when they were stoppedby some 100
gunmen andtakento aremote moun-
tainous area.
Soldiers and police later found 21
bodies, includingthose of Manguda-
datu's wife, Genalyn, and his two sis-
ters, sprawled on the ground or shot
in their vehicles about three miles
(five kilometers) from where they
were ambushed, military spokesman

Lt. Col. Romeo Brawner said.
Mangudadatu, deputy mayor of
the town of Buluan and a fierce politi-
cal rival of the current governor
Maguindanao province, said his wi Pe
called him by mobile phone shortly
before she and her entourage were
abducted.
"She said ... they were stopped by
100uniformed armed men...thenher
line gotcut off," he said.
The five vans being used by the
group were found abandoned. The
armyandpoliceweresearchingforthe
16 people who were missing, Brawner
said, adding that troops were looking
for more bodiesin areas that appeared
to have been recently dugup.
A backhoe was apparently used
to bury the bodies, said army com-
mander Lt. Col. Rolando Nerona.
While candidates are typically
part of the festive caravans that
travel to file election papers, Ma
gudadatu had sent his family an
supporters blecause he had received
death threats.

INTERESTED IN THE FIELD OF GRAPHIC DESIGN?


Design Ads for
Tite Daily.
The Michigan Daily Advertising Design Department
is looking to fill a design position for Winter 2010.

%nArbor
C23)
Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?



1

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 24, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Mich. says flu has
killed 54 in state
since April
Michigan health officials say
influenza has killed 54 people in
the state since April 1 and 44 since
Sept. 1, when swine flu began gain-
ing steam.
The Michigan Community
Health Department said Monday
that 26,868 flu cases were reported
in the state from Nov. 8-14.
Since Sept. 1, officials say 1,530
0 people have been hospitalized in
Michigan for the flu.
The department says in Michi-
gan, authorities have allocated at
least 1.9 million doses of the vac-
cine for the HIN1 virus, which
causes swine flu. That means
medical personnel have received
0 permission to receive that number
of doses.
WASHINGTON
Democrats: Health
care bill saves
money and jobs
Two Democratic senators say
0 the health care overhaul bill now
going to the Senate floor for debate
is a key to saving jobs and reduc-
ing the spiraling American budget
deficit.
Democratic Sen. Debbie Stabe-
now of Michigan says health care
cost reductions for employers will
0 save 3.5 million jobs.
Democratic Sen. Arlen Specter
of Pennsylvania says the health
care measure would save the coun-
try $800 billion over the coming 20
years.
Republican senators aren't buy-
* ing those arguments.
Republican Sen. Lamar Alexan-
der of Tennessee-predicts the mea-
sure will collapse under its own
weight during debate. And Repub-
lican Sen. Kit Bond of Missouri
calls the Democratic-sponsored
measure a "scam."
The senators spoke on "Fox
News Sunday."
WASHINGTON
Obamato receive
visit from India's PM
India has watched with wari-
ness as President Barack Obama's
administration has lavished
attention on rivals Pakistan and
China. Now, Obama is trying to
ease Indian worries by honoring
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
with the first state visit of his
presidency.
India will receive Tuesday's
*elaborate welcome because the
relationship quietly has become
one of the most important the
United States has. It is seen
as crucial to the U.S.-led fight
against extremists in Pakistan
and Afghanistan, as a counter-
weight to China and as key to
efforts to settle world trade and
climate change deals.
Singh's visit, howevar, comes at
a delicate time. Indians are bris-
tling over a perception that Obama
neglected India during his recent
trip to Asia and seemed to endorse
a stronger role for China in India's

sensitive dealings with Pakistan.
HEGANG, China
Families demand
answers to mine
explosion
Grieving family members
demanded answers Monday from
mining officials about the under-
ground gas explosion that left at
least 104 men dead in northeastern
China.
The massive blast Saturday in
Hegang city in frigid Heilongjiang
province erupted at night when
some 500 miners were working
below ground. Most escaped, but
104 were confirmed dead and an
additional four were missing and
feared dead, the official Xinhua
news agency reported Monday.
The explosion at the Xinxing
coal mine, which belongs to the
state-owned Heilongjiang Long-
mei Mining Holding Group, was
the deadliest in China's mining
industry in two years, and has
highlighted how heavy demand for
9 power-generating coal comes at a
high human cost.
At the gates of the mining com-
pany's offices, family members and
friends confronted mining officials
with questions until some of them
were escorted into an office by
police, security guards and other
officials.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Tax credit
gives big boost
for home sales

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu seen during a Faction meeting of his Likud party, in Jerusalem, yesterday.
Israel, Ham Sas near swap
Of prisoners for soldier

Israel to release
1,000 prisoners if
deal goes through
JERUSALEM (AP) - Hamas
leaders raced to Egypt on Monday
amid signs of progress on a deal
to swap hundreds of Palestinian
prisoners for a captive Israeli sol-
dier held by the Islamic militant
group for more than three years.
The exchange could boost
Hamas at the expense of its key
rival, Western-backed Palestin-
ian President Mahmoud Abbas, in
part because one of the prisoners
to be freed is Marwan Barghouti,
his main challenger.
Officials on both sides cautioned
against exaggerated optimismthat
adealisabouttobeconcluded.Even
so, conditions for a deal appear to
be ripening on both sides.
Israel and Hamas have been
locked in on-again, off-again talks
since Gaza militants tunneled
into Israel and captured Sgt. Gilad
Schalit in a 2006 raid that killed
two other soldiers. Until recently,
the Egyptian-mediated talks had
made little progress.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is eager for a break-
through. Bringing Schalit home
would give him a huge domestic
boost and provide an important
diplomatic victory at a time when
much of the international commu-
nity is criticizing him fornot doing
enough to promote peace.
Israel's ceremonial president,
Shimon Peres, confirmed prog-
ress in the talks after meeting with
Egypt's president Sunday in Cairo.
Hamas, the Iranian-backed
militant group that controls
Gaza, is also hungry for prog-
ress. Exchanging Schalit for hun-
dreds of prisoners would provide
a swift popularity boost for the
militant group among Palestin-
ians, who see the imprisonment
of thousands of their countrymen
in Israeli jails as one of their main
grievances against Israel.

It could also help ease the
group's deep international isola-
tion and lead to a lifting of a bruis-
ingIsraeli economicblockade.The
embargo, imposed after Hamas
seized control ofGaza in 2007, has
prevented repairs of heavy dam-
age inflicted by an Israeli military
offensive nearly a year ago.
The recent involvement of
German mediators, who enjoy
the trust of both sides, also has
improved the climate.
While previous attempts to
reach a deal have repeatedly bro-
ken down, both sides have sig-
naled they are serious.
Though no official statements
have been made, it appears that
Netanyahu is prepared to release
more hard-core Palestinian mili-
tants than his predecessor, Ehud
Qlmert, fulfilling a key Hamas
demand. He also is believed to
have agreed to include some Israe-
li-Arab prisoners in the deal.
Hamas has shown flexibility on
some important issues, particu-
larly Israel's insistence that some
150 prisoners are expected to be
deported to countries elsewhere
in the Middle East or Europe -
although still to be worked out is
whether these would eventually
be allowed to return to the Pal-
estinian territories. Hamas also
released a video of Schalit last
month, the most solid confirmta-
tion he is alive.
Inasignofitsseriousness,Hamas
said over the weekend that all of
Gaza's militant groups had agreed
to suspend rocket attacks on Israel.
However, the Israeli military said
Palestinians fired a rocket at Israel
after nightfall Monday. Israel has
vowed to retaliate for every rocket
attack, and such an exchange could
unravel the prisoner swap.
A senior Hamas delegation
led by strongman Mahmoud
Zahar and two top members of
the group's armed wing, which
is holding Schalit, crossed into
Egypt from Gaza. Witnesses said
Israeli military helicopters hov-
ered overhead as the delegation

headed to the border, though the
Israeli military said it had no air-
craft in the area at the time.
A member of Hamas' Syrian-
based leadership, Moussa , Abu
Marzouk, said "there is progress"
in the talks but gave no details on
the timing of a possible deal.
Late Monday, the Hamas lead-
ership in Damascus, Syria, issued
a statement charging that Israel
was trying to create pressure
through leaks to the media. The
statement said it was "too early
to speak about certain results or a
close agreement on the deal."
Speaking to members of his
Likud Party, Netanyahu cautioned
it could be some time before an
agreement is completed. He told
lawmakers he would hold a par-
liamentary debate on any deal and
bringitto his Cabinet for approval.
Netanyahu could face some
opposition in his hard-line coali-
tion, but would likely be able to
pass the swap in his Cabinet. The
deal would also be subject to a
48-hour period for opponents to
file legal challenges.
A Palestinian familiar with the
talks said Israel was preparing to
release some 1,000 Palestinian
prisoners in the swap. The Pales-
tinian, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because of the sensi-
tivity of the issue, said the pris-
oners would be released in two
stages.
The initial batch of 450 people is
expected to include many serving
lengthy sentences for deadly attacks
on Israelis. Among them would
be Barghouti, a popular leader of
Hamas rival Fatah, who is serving
five consecutive life terms for his
role in shooting attacks that killed
four Israelis and a Greek monk.
Several Palestinian officials,
who spoke on condition of ano-
nymity because of the sensitivity
of the situation, said the sides had
agreed on the names and num-
bers of prisoners to be freed, and
that only smaller details, such as
logistics and timing, needed to be
ironed out.

Ho
sees
e
WASH
time bu
a specia
existing
in a dec
turnarou
and plea
While
disappea
the comm
ding wa
ies, and
percent
January.
Analy
her malt
of up to $
ers, whit
month b
it until s
to morel
The s
the Nati
tors pro
on Wall
industria
a weak d
points.
Analy
the hom
help sus
next yea:
will prob
from hig
That's
too man
the reco'
ing. Job
remain r
construe
opposed
- plunge
The b
housing
nomic
building.
generate
help, bui
tion.
"I w
housec
terms of
economy
Diane St
Mesirow
The R
rose 10.1
adjusted
lion in 0
in Septe
monthly
far bette
expected
Reuters.
Atthe
a modes
previous
market.
percent 
but real
has defin
"Peop.
they are
Tulloss,
Inc. in t

ousing market of North Carolina. "They're not
riding around with me if they need
upturn, overall to go shopping or buy a turkey."
Joey Wilson and her husband
Conomy still made unsuccessful offers on 20
Las Vegas homes starting in mid-
struggles summer before they closed on a
four-bedroom, $136,000 home
INGTON (AP) - First- this month.
yers taking advantage of "It's insane," said Wilson, who
I tax credit gave sales of relocated from Kentucky. "I've
homes their biggest surge never seen a market like this
'ade, raising hopes for a before."
nd in the housingmarket The housing market is being
sing Wall Street. driven by reduced prices and fed-
rising foreclosures and eral programs to lower mortgage
ring jobs still threaten rates and bring more buyers into
eback, there are now bid- the market. The median sales
rs for houses in some cit- price was $173,100 in October,
home sales are nearly 36 down 7 percent from a year earlier
above their low point in and 25 percent below the peak.
Many experts predict prices
sts said the gains in Octo- will hit a new low next spring,
ily reflected the tax credit perhaps falling 5 to 10 percent
8,000 for new homeown- further as more foreclosures spill
ch was due to expire this into the market. The government
efore Congress extended has tried to counter that trend by
pring - and expanded it offering the tax credit and keep-
buyers. ing mortgage rates low.
ales figures Monday from Without the a deadline loom-
onal Association of Real- ing for the tax credit, home sales
vided the juice for a rally are likely to fall over the win-
Street. The Dow Jones ter as buyers hibernate for a few
al average, also. lifted by months. Analysts say the new
ollar, rose more than 130 deadline - buyers have to sign
a purchase agreement by April
sts said the extension of 30 - means sales will surge next
ebuyer tax credit should spring, before dropping back
tain the housing market again later in 2010.
r. Yet the overall economy What happens after that is any-
mably benefit only slightly one's guess.
her home sales. "When we do kick those
because there are still crutches out from under the hous-
y factors weighing down ing market, will it be able to stand
very. Foreclosures are ris- on its own?" said Mark Fleming,
creation is slow. People chief economist with First Ameri-
reluctant to spend. And can CoreLogic. "It's really hard to
'ion of new homes - as tell."
to sales of existing ones The government has also
d in October. helped the housing market by act-
iggest contribution the ing to lower mortgage rates. The
industry makes to eco- Federal Reserve, for example, has
growth is from home pumped $1.25 trillion into mort-
. Commissions and fees gage-backed securities to try to
d from home sales also lower mortgage rates and loosen
t far less than construe- credit. That program is scheduled
to end by March.
uldn't want to bet the If rates go up without the
on housing, really, in government help, homes wuld
the strength of the U.S. he less affordable, which could
7 going forward," said dampen demand.
wonk, chief economist at A disquieting report last week
Financial in Chicago." from the Mortgage Bankers Asso-
ealtors group said resales ciation said more fixed-rate homte
percent to a seasonally loans made to people with good
annual rate of 6.1 mil- credit were sinking into foreclo-
ictober, from 5.5 million sure aslayoffsgoon.Arecord-high
mber. It was the biggest 14 percent of homeowners with a
increase in a decade and mortgage were either behind on
r than what economists payments or in foreclosure at the
I, according to Thomson end of September.
In areas where foreclosures
currentsales pacethere's have hit hard, housing remains
t seven-month supply of depressed, despite low prices, low
ly occupied homes on the mortgage rates and the tax credit.
Sales are still running 16 Yet for homebuyers with cash and
below their peak in 2005, access to credit, falling prices and
estate agents say the pace low mortgage rates have proved
iltely picked up. irresistible.
le who are looking, The Realtors' report on October
serious," said Harrison home sales reflects offers made
an agent with ZipRealty before buyers knew the credit
he Raleigh-Durham area would be extended.

Medical marijuana finds
social outlet in Oregon cafe

As federal officials
decrease regulation,
pot lounges open
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - At
the newly opened Cannabis Cafe,
people sit around taking tokes
from a "vaporizer" - a contrap-
tion with a big plastic bag that
captures the potent vapors of
heated marijuana. Glass jars hold
donations of dried, milky-green
weed, and' the cafe serves up
meals and snacks for the hungry.
It's all perfectly legal and, for
cancer patient Albert Santiste-
van, it's about time.
"It's a very positive atmo-
sphere. We could use more places
like that," the 56-year-old former
jewelry shop bwner said.
A few weeks ago, Santistevan
would have had no place to go. But
with the Obama administration's
decision last month to soften the
federal stance on medical mari-
juana, the Cannabis Cafe and a
lounge across town popped up,
bringing a little bit of pot-friendly
Amsterdam to this working class
corner of Portland.
The idea could catch on in the
roughly dozen other states with
medical marijuana laws. Allen St.
Pierre, spokesman for the Nation-
al Organization for the Reform

of Marijuana Laws, or NORML,
said the organization has already
gotten inquiries from Washing-
ton state, Michigan, Montana
and Maine.
Portland police have not
received any complaints about
the cafe and it is not under any
special scrutiny, officials said.
Jan Clutter lives about a block
fromuthe cafe and knows the own-
ers well. She said many neighbors
would probably prefer it was
somewhere else, but there has
been no push to have it moved.
For some, things could be worse
than having a pot cafe.
"It's better than having a sex
club, a strip joint or a bar full of
drunks open down the street,"
neighbor Claudia Nix said.
Oregon became the second
state to pass a marijuana law
in 1998, following California.
There are nearly 24,000 patients
with medical marijuana cards in
Oregon. Only state residents can
obtain the card after registering
as a patient in the Oregon Medi-
cal Marijuana Program witha
qualifying debilitating medical
condition diagnosed by a doctor.
Even though they have a card,
medical marijuana patients have
had to confine their smoking to
their homes for fear of getting
busted.
"We have no place of our own.

So this is the place," said Madeline
Martinezexecutive director ofthe
Oregon chapter of NORML, which
operates and monitors the cafe.
Volunteers gave a reporter
and a photographer a tour of the
cafe. No marijuana is sold in the
cafe. Patients bring marijuana
grown by themselves or by their
designated caregivers. They
also donate marijuana for other
patrons to use. The cafe has a
pool table and comfy couches.
Martinez demonstrated the
"Volcano," a vaporizer that col-
lects marijuana fumes into a clear
plastic pouch with a valve that
releases the fumes for patients to
inhale.
People who want to use mari-
juana at the cafe can't get inside
until Martinez or other NORML
members check their IDs to
make sure they are patients
registered with the state. The
patients also have to be a mem-
ber of Oregon NORML to use the
cafe, pay a $20 a month fee, and
a $5 coverage charge at the door.
The money goes toward operat-
ing costs.
In another part of the city is
Highway 420 - a number pot users
have used as code for marijuana --
a small lounge in the back room
of Steve Geiger's pipe shop. Rules
for using the lounge are similar to
those at the Cannabis Cafe.

~~' I
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
toronalSollModellalPacifico Specials All Night
Vota4 4- c Pader ' ftere
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Maynard St. -To Go Orders 734.995.0100 -Next to the Ma nard Parkin Structure

I


01

4 - Tuesday, November 24, 2009

C M Cig "Oati fallu
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.

ELAINE MORTON I

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU


420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

t _
<

' sE > -
Cap

(((t

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Cut the bias
Researchers' conflicts of interest demand immediate action
With the slow collapse of the automobile industry in
the state of Michigan, researching new fields is more
important than ever. This point hasn't been lost on
the University, with President Mary Sue Coleman promising more
money, time and effort on spent on research in the upcomingyears
than ever before. But research can only have a positive result if
it's objective and credible. In a recent report by the Department
of Health and Human Services, though, 41 unnamed universi-
ties were shown to have potential biases that could corrupt their
research. These findings signal that the government and universi-
ties must mount a more substantive effort to facilitate an objective

Survival of the creationists

research climate on campuses.
The study, published on Wednesday,
displayed a shocking amount of bias with-
in the realm of research on college cam-
puses. According to the study, 90 percent
of universities have few regulations on
their researchers when it comes to finan-
cial conflicts, and many schools rely on
the researchers to report potential con-
flicts of interest. Many of the researchers
held stock or interests in companies that
would be affected by their own research,
and some even served as consultants to
businesses in their field of research. The
National Institutes of Health, which was
providing much of the grant money for
this research, has said it will be reform-
ing the system soon and this could change
future research financing.
Research is exceedingly important to
academia and economic stability, espe-
cially in the state of Michigan. New tech-
nologies create new economic activity and
jobs and drive the economy forward. To
protect the important process of research,
it's incumbent upon researchers to behave
in a fashion befitting their role of advanc-
ing knowledge about important topics in
an objective fashion.
The issue at hand is simple - researchers
must distance themselves from decisions
that are or could be construed as bias. The
danger that this study exposes comes from

potential conflict that may arise between
one's personal financial interests and the
integrity of research. Under the current
systems, medical 'researchers may face
pressure to produce findings that help a
specific company. And that's not okay.
Universities are to blame as well. The
lack of oversight at places of higher learn-
ing shows that universities aren't placing
the proper importance on the purity of
the research they produce. Choosing to
maintain careful oversight of potential
biases and requiring researchers to dis-
close financial interests relating to their
research are some ways in which universi-
ties can maintain their autonomy and still
continue to generate quality research.
While the NIH needs to pay closer atten-
tion to the funding it gives out, it shouldn't
make the rash decision to cut off funding
completely. Government funding is often
vital to research efforts, especially at pub-
lic institutions. Money should'continue to
go to researchers who do essential work.
Researchers, universities and the gov-
ernment must curb this problem. With
more regulations from the universities,
ethical behavior by the researchers and
a realistic response from the NIH, the
future of university and government spon-
sored research can continue in a respon-
sible and ethical fashion.

s I walked home from the
football game on Saturday,
preachers were out in full
force denounc-
ing the theory of
evolution. That's
because today is
the 150th anniver-
sary of the pub-
lishing of Charles
Darwin's famous
text on evolution,
"The Origin of
Species." To cel- BEN
ebrate, I'd like to CALECA
talk about a "Spe-
cial introduction"
by a man named
Roy Comfort who seems to think
Darwin is a very serious problem.
Roy Comfort is a creationist made
famous byhis appearance with actor-
turned-Christian-evangelist Kirk
Cameron, an appearance in which
he explained God's direct hand in all
things. His segment is now immor-
talized in a YouTube video, which
describes bananas as "atheists' worst
nightmare." He argued that bananas,
which are easy to open, change col-
ors to show ripeness and fit in his
hand well, demonstrating the truth
of God's direct hand on our lives.
He's partly right: The banana is an
example of intelligent design - but
we were the designers.
I hate to break it to Roy, but the
natural banana is full of seeds that
are tiny, hard to open and gener-
ally disgusting. Selective breeding of
bananas has led growers to use a tree
that can make delicious Cavendish
bananas. The trees all have identical
genetics and are reproduced asexu-
ally, which essentially makes them
clones. in fact, the choice by farmers
to make such an extreme case of a
monoculture renders them vulnera-
ble from an evolutionary standpoint:
These bananas have low disease
resistance. As a result, much of your
banana money goes into stopgap
measures to keep banana trees from
dying out by natural selection.
But when Comfort isn't claiming

God's mysterious way is evident in
potassium-rich fruits, he's publish-
ing copies of "The Origin of Species"
that come with a special introduc-
tion. His introduction is respectful
for about 10 pages before it goes into
page after page of incomplete accu-
sations and cherry-picked pot shots
directed at evolution. The introduc-
tion goes on to advance the most
ridiculous of arguments: that Hit-
ler was Darwin's "famous student."
For an added bonus, the publication
also features some reasons why the
Christian God is better than your
God or lack thereof.
Dozens of these publications were
passed around on campus last week
to promote criticism of evolution.
While the theological debate is still
raging, I'm surprised that after 150
years of advancement in the theory
of evolution - which has included
arguments, counterarguments, addi-
tional evidence, new complexities
such as the discovery of DNA and
overwhelming support of accredited
scientists - some continue to deny
the existence of evolution. Money
that could have gone to more noble
pursuits is spent to distribute books
that make (at best) incomplete and (at
worst) childish arguments about the
origin of species.
Mr. Comfort preaches about
purported dilemmas surround-
ing evolution, and his nuggets of
thought-provoking insight include
asking why evolution is not always a
logical, directed process. This ques-
tion comes from a misunderstanding
of how natural selection works. One
feature that was irrelevant before
and might be in any number of crea-
tures suddenly becomes helpful to
survival, it has a better chance of
propagating - this is natural selec-
tion in its most basic form.
He goes on to talk about the mis-
takes made over time in evolutionary
science. Examples such as the fake
fossil known as Piltdown Man and
cases of mistaken identities for spec-
imens have caused controversy. But
finding some evidence false cannot

discredit science on its own. Theo-
ries are.only dismantled when there
is freestanding evidence to the con-
trary - for example - evidence that
favorable mutations don't propagate
among species.
If we applied the logic of Comfort
and his ilk to all sciences at institu-
tions like the University, we would
have to "teach the controversy"
regarding General Relativity and
Quantum Mechanics. Oh, that USB
drive you used? It might use Quan-
tum Mechanics to erase data on it,
but some evidence used to bolster
the theory has since been disproven,
In 150 years,
Darwin's naysayers
haven't evolved.
so there might instead be gnomes
that burn your information on a
nanoscale when you click delete.
If you did happen to get a copy of
this edition of "The Origin of Spe-
cies," I'm not asking you to burn it
or to hide it. Freedom of speech is
important, and if you've taken biol-
ogy or history, you'll recognize that
the introduction is hilarious. But
look at the arguments, and then*
read for yourself about the debate on
evolution. As students and as future'
leaders and teachers, we should be
able to recognize the merits of scien-
tific theory in science, and keep the-
ories based on religious texts firmly
in the realm of theology. In the 150
years since Darwin's book, we've
come a long way toward describ-
ing just how clever and complex all
of creation really is. Let's celebrate
this theory of life instead oftryingto
argue whether the book of Genesis
in the Bible has more scientific merit
than "The Origin of Species."
- Ben Caleca can be reached
at calecab@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
ADAM GAGIIO|
The morals of health care reform

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. *
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
LAUREN SQUIRESI
Defining Research Assistants'rights

With the House of Representatives passing
the health care bill earlier this month and the
Senate taking up the debate, it looks like govern-
ment-run health care may eventually be passed
into law. In recent months, conservatives have
opposed the Democratic health care agenda in a
variety of ways. Sarah Palin has attacked health
care legislation by claiming that it includes
"death panels." TV and radio host Sean Hannity
tried to sway Americans by showing universal
health care horror stories from Canada. The con-
servative Heritage Foundation published studies
that show the cost of accounting for Medicare is
actually higher than for private insurance. Rea-
son magazine, read by many conservatives and
libertarians, cites America's high murder rate to
explain our lower life expectancy.
Whether these objections to universal health
care are valid or not, they may slow the arrival of
socialized medicine. But they certainly will not
stop it. The conservative movement has stripped
itself of its most potent, available weapon in its
fight to halt and ultimately reverse government
involvement in our health care. The weapon con-
servatives have abandoned is morality.
When it comes to the health care debate, both
sides of the political spectrum.have accepted
altruism as the primary moral yardstick against
which we should measure various proposals for
reform. The popular definition of altruism says
that it.is moral to be consistently unselfish and
devoted to others. In the case of health care,
we are told that the truly virtuous and unself-'
ish thing to do would be to vote for the bill for
the sake of the uninsured. If you are really your
brother's keeper, as both the Christian right and
Michael Moore believe, then the moral course of
action is to sacrifice so that every American has
health care. Few Republican politicians today
would dare to claim thst providing everyone
with health care is immoral. Since they can only
muster arguments that are pragmatic in nature,
conservatives are dead in the water when con-
fronted with the more powerful moral argu-
ments of the left.
To the credit of conservatives, one often hears
them alluding to the greatness of our Founding
Fathers and the principles upon which America
was founded. But they fail to realize that the
political philosophy of our Founding Fathers was
created on the implicit premise of the morality of
rational self-interest. Rational self-interest says

means that each person has a right to his life, and
consequently must be free to take self-directed
actions that support his own existence, so long as
he does not violate the rights of other people. The
use of force destroys one's ability to act upon his
own conclusions and violates this morality. Forc-
ing someone to act "morally" is thus inherently
contradictory and evil.
On the other hand, altruism says that man's
ultimate moral worth is based upon his service
to others. The political philosophy that stems
from altruist ethics is collectivism. Karl Marx
famously summarized the moral underpin-
nings of communism in one statement: "From
each according to his ability, to each according
to his need." Many people don't realize that
this is more than just a political statement.
According to the ethics of altruism, it is the
moral ideal.
The currently proposed health care reform
bills put this ideal into practical form. Like any
other good or service, health care must be pro-
vided by individuals. By making health care a
right to which everyone is entitled, others are
forced to provide it for those who can't afford
it. This use of force is precisely why a right to
health care is a corruption of the concept of
rights in the first place. A right is a freedom of
action, not a guarantee to the product of some-
one else's work or thoughts. The rights secured
in the U.S. Constitution are the right to live your
life in a way that you see as proper, the right to
liberty or freedom from physical force and the
right to the pursuit of happiness. Exerting force
over those who can afford health care to pro-
vide it for those who can't negates our rights.
The purpose of morality is to provide a set of
values to guide man's actions and to help him live
his life. In any battle between morality and prag-
matism, it is morality that will ultimately win.
Those conservatives who try to integrate altru-
ism and freedom are embracing a fundamental
contradiction and in doing so, they are dooming
themselves and the country to a form of collec-
tivism. If the conservative movement embraces
rational self interest, it will have reason, prac-
ticality and morality on its side in the fight to
defeat socialized medicine and its attack on basic
freedom.
Adam Gaglio is the president of
Michigan Students of Objectivism.

In the whistleblower trial brought by a former Graduate
Student Research Assistant, Robert McGee, a Washtenaw
County jury ruled last week in favor of the University.
This former student and employee claimed that he was
terminated because he informed his department about
questionable actions performed by his supervisor. Cover-
age both in the Daily and on annarbor.com focused on the
trial itself and didn't explore the underlying issues in the
trial, namely the largely unregulated conditions under
which GSRAs are employed. But the importance of this
case goes beyond one employee's expefiences. The case
itself calls attention to the lack of workplace protections
for GSRAs at the Univetsity.
This trial raises questions about numerous aspects
of graduate employees' working conditions: job duties,
workload, supervisor responsibility, safety and, central
to this case, grievance procedures. According to the news
coverage, McGee claims that he was overworked, asked
to perform potentially hazardous actions and termi-
nated without prior warning. Unlike Graduate Student
Instructors or Graduate Student Staff Assistants, who
work under a contract negotiated between the Univer-
sity and the Graduate Employees' Organization, GSRAs
do not work under the terms of a collective bargaining
agreement. This means they lack rights, protections and
access to formal grievance procedures, which are tailored
to employees' work as research assistants rather than as
students.
Such employment-specific procedures are crucial for
all employees, especially for those who, like graduate stu-
dents, often maintain dual roles with their supervisors.
Graduate employees need assurances that their work as
students will not negatively affect their work as assis-
tants and that they will not be retaliated against in cases
of toxic employment situations. It's too often that GEO
hears of GSIs who are targets of supervisors' unreason-
able expectations, inflexible demands, threats, harass-
ment and altogether unprofessional treatment. GSIs may
sometimes be scared to pursue their grievances for fear
that they won't be re-hired, their department will move
them to the bottom of the list for fellowship consider-
ations or their academic reputation will be preemptively
tarnished by professors who don't sympathize with their
experiences. But because GEO has fought for a strong
contract, our members can be confident that the union
will advocate for their rights and fight against retaliation.
In his role as a GSRA, McGee didn't have this confidence
or the comfort it provides to graduate workers.

First-time GSRAs are often surprised to learn that they
are hot covered by GEO's contract - we at GEO often
hear concerns from GSRAs, and we must point out that
under our contract, we can offer no assistance. While
GSRAs used to be included in GEO's bargaining unit,
they have been excluded since the late 1970s following a
Michigan Employment Relations Committee ruling that
research assistants are only students, not "employees."
This contrasts with employment rules in many states,
where research assistants are considered workers. For
instance, New York, New Jersey and Florida have union-
ized research assistants, and in Wisconsin, research
assistants won collective bargaining rights just this sum-
mer. For GSRAs at the University, McGee's case shows*
that GSRAs sometimes work under the authority of oth-
ers and not always on projects directly advancing their
academic goals. GSRA work is subject to the demands of
supervisors, who are often their academic advisors. They
ought to have workers' rights that go beyond the Univer-
sity's basic appointment guidelines. Collective organiza-
tion and bargaining could help.GSRAs attain these rights.
When people ask why it's important for graduate
employees to have unions, they are often told about
increases in wages, tuition waivers, wage equity and
health insurance. These are some of the sexy economic
gains achievable through collective bargaining. It is
less sexy to talk about setting guidelines for job posting,
hiring and firing procedures, paths of communication
between employees and the University and parameters
for formal meetings with administrators. The details of
labor contracts don't make for exciting reading, but they
give employees incredibly important tools for when they
need to stand up to those who would take advantage of
them.
Conditions for GSRAs on campus are, like most things
on campus, probably fine most of the time - when advisors
have ample funds and treat their GSRAs respectfully. But
the whistleblower case shows that, when GSRAs are mis-
treated, they are alienated from sources of assistance. They
have no recourse short of expensive legal proceedings. In
this case, perhaps having an internal grievance procedure
would have saved the University a great deal of money in
defense funds as well. Regardless of the jury's decision, we
should take seriously the need to investigate GSRAs' work-
ing conditions and recognize their status as workers.
Lauren Squires is chair of the Grievance Committee
of the Graduate Employees' Organization.

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 24, 2009 - 5

FILM REVIEW

Get the picture!

CPR + wolf fangs = exacerbating the problem.

'Moon' doesn't shine

The second, more action-
packed'Twilight' installment
is still just for the fans.
By JACK PORTER
Daily Arts Writer
The inescapable cultural phenomenon sur-
rounding "The Twilight Saga" gets its second
film installment in "New
Moon," carrying on the story
of Bella and Edward's tortured
teen romance. But there's The TWlight
more to these films than sim-
ply retelling the stories of Saga: New
the books. It creates some- Mon
thing new: a crop of talented
teen idols who could become At Quality 16
part of the next generation of and Showcase
A-List Hollywood actors. Summit
Thanks to the juggernaut
commercial success of the
"Twilight" brand, these fresh-faced actors are
breaking out is a big way; Robert Pattinson is
already being compared to James Dean and
Marlon Brando for his cult-like popularity.
The first "Twilight" movie propelled both

Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson to super-
stardom, and "New Moon" looks to do the same
with Taylor Lautner, who often appears sans
shirt. Even more than the original "Twilight,"
"New Moon" fetishizes its gorgeous protago-
nists. Human Bella's (Stewart, "Twilight")
obsessive romance with vampire Edward (Pat-
tinson, "Twilight") is based mainly on physical
attraction, and the films reflect that - the stars
are the focal point. Their faces and bodies con-
stantly fill the framte, from Stewart's quizzical
eyebrows to Pattinson's pouty lips and Laut-
ner's washboard abs.
"New Moon" picks up where the first "Twi-
light" left off, with Bella and Edward united
as a blissful couple. But soon, Edward and his
vampire family leave Forks, Wash. for good.
Edward abandons Bella, explaining that rival
vampire clans endanger not only his family's
life, but hers as well. Love-sick Bella becomes
deeply depressed without him, but her friend
Jacob (Lautner, "Twilight") manages to save
her from her own self-destructive urges. Their
friendship gets complicated and Bella becomes
the target of vampire assassins in this more
action-oriented sequel.
Compared to the first filsm, "New Moon" is
more exciting and fast-paced. Action scenes
involving werewolves are the most spectacu-

lar, with CGI work generating convincingly
ferocious jaws and flowing fur. The love tri-
angle makes for some tense moments between
Stewart, Pattinson and Lautner, which suc-
ceed because of appropriately angsty perfor-
mances and natural chemistry. But outside of
the romantically charged moments, the actors
falter. in more banal conversations (most of
the film), they deliver their lines in a halting
manner with overly long pauses. Part of the
blame should go to the script's clunky dialogue
("I belong with you." "No, you don't."). The
narrative are is equally frustrating, as Bella's
behavior is always tear-suicidal, and there's no
forward momentum to the story.
"New Moose" is best when presenting beau-
tiful images other than the actors, like pan-'
orascmic views of mossy temperate rain forests
and dramatic seaside cliffs. It's less adept at
telling a compelling story. The most involving
moments are the brief fireworks of the romance
and action scenes, which use CGI and glossy
close-ups as weapons of choice.
Despite the poor dialogue, the actors occa-
sionally shine. And for fans of the series, "New
Moon" manages a successful adaptation of the
book, capturing its. moods of heartbreak and
anguish. But for those not under author Stepha-
nie Meyer's spell, it could be quite a bore.

live in cynical times.
Our generation was
brought up to question
authority, challenge the status quo
and distrust
other people,
and that's just
the way we are.
And that's cool.
I'm definitely
a sarcastic,
doubtful per-
son myself. But ANDREW
there's some- LAPIN
thing I've been
wondering about us. With the rise
of the Internet as a tool to remove
ourselves from the world through
ironic detachment, is it possible
for any work of culture - like, say,
a movie - to reach us emotionally
anymore?
I gotto thinking about this after
seeingthe new release "Precious,"
which is about an impoverished,
abused, pregnantblack teenager
in Harlem. That's a lot of misery to
squeeze into one film, and maybe
a fault of the movie is that it's too
much to contain. But I'm won-
dering if it nevertheless has the
power to touch us cynical college
students. It's unfortunate, but from
what I've witnessed the past couple
years, I'm inclined to say "no."
My reasoning has to do with
how we approach difficult subject
matter. We laugh atlit. Our tenden-
cy is to turn everything into ajoke,
and that includes ironic, over-he-
top, look-how-offensive-we-are
kinds ofjokes. Maybe humor is
our defense mechanism; maybe
we just don't care about the things
aboutwhich we should care.
In a key scene in "Precious,"
the mother (playedby MoNique)
drops a newborn baby on the floor
of her apartment. Over the top?
Maybe a little, but it's filmed with-
out gratuity; it's an event that hap-
pens during her fit of rage, and it's
meant for give audiences a con-
crete realization of the disturbing
downward spiral of her character.
But who among us hasn't heard at
least one "dead baby" joke before?
You know what I'm talking about.
They're funny because of how
absurd and outrageous it is to joke
about infant mortality. And maybe
I've told a few myself. Butyou
take someone who routinely spills
"dead baby" jokes, sit them down
in front of a movie theater and
play them that scene from "Pre-
cious," and their first instinct is to
laugh. It's funny, right?
OK, so maybe it's not just our
generation that's doingthis. But
we're the ones who are trying to
look at the supposed prudishness
of our prior generations from
the outside. Remember all those
YouTube parodies of "Brokeback
Mountain" from a few years back?
Nobody meant any harm by them
at least, I hope they didn't. It
was just funny to portray C-3P0
and R2-D2 as gay. But it also might
be a sign that the movie didn't
emotionally resonate with us the
way the filmmakers intended.
This is unquestionably the era
of post-modern filmmaking: We're

past the point where we casually
assume all movies are really "hap-
pening," and we're more aware
than ever of the manipulative
devices that actors and directors
employ to win our hearts. The
motives of filmmakers are much
more transparent to us now than
they've ever been with past audi-
ences, whether that's because of
our heightened obsession with
the industry or the increased
self-involvement of the directors
in question. Quentin Tarantino's
"Inglourious Basterds" was essen-
tially an expos6 of techniques
used by wartime propaganda
films, and documentarians like
Michael Moore and Werner Her-
zog love describingtheir film's
emotional hooks to the audience
during their narrations.
So with all this new trans-
parency, we're left with less of
an incentive to get emotionally
wrapped up in a film's story. It's
hard to clap for a magician when
you already know his tricks, it's
true. And this plays a big part
in our newfound celluloid cyni-
cism. But if we're not careful, this
immediate impulse to pick apart
and mock every movie could per-
manently transform the ways we
watch and respond to films.
Now, obviously the filmmak-
ers themselves should be charged
with making us care. If their
old techniques of emotional
manipulation are becoming too
see-through, they need to think
of some new ones. "Brokeback"
was so easy to parody because all
Ending celluloid
cynicism.
the hallmarks of a grand romantic
epic - the picturesque landscapes,
the swelling music, the tearful
confessions - were already there.
And ina few months, it's not hard
to imagine Mo'Nique's baby-drop-
ping in "Precious" making the
YouTube rounds as well.
But a lot of this lies on us too.
We can't keep arrogantly distanc-
ing ourselves from every work
of art that comes along. If that is
where we're heading, I want to
discover one simple thingbefore
the how-we-view-movies mind-
shift is complete: What was the
last movie you saw that reached
you in a really meaningful way?
Which of film's most recent
endeavors penetrated your own
defenses, so that you weren't
focused on any unintentional
comedy or on the director's short-
comings, but only focused on the
characters and situations that
were being depicted in front of you
with utmost sincerity? It's an hon-
est question. I want to know if I'm
exaggeratingclaims of our genera-
tion's cynicism. Prove me wrong.
Lapin has tons of "dead baby"
jokes he wants to tell you. E-mail him
at alapin@umichedu to hear them.

John M er typical 'Battle'

By LEAH BURGIN
Daily Arts Writer
Despite John Mayer's claims
that his new-
est album would
deviate from his ***
older work and
exhibit some John Mayer
experimentation, Battle Studies
Battle Studies .m
does not live up Calambia
to this prelude
- it's about 45 minutes of Mayer's
usual defining vocals and tradi-
tional blues-rock-pop sound. In
fact, one of the only bold moves
Mayer made for Battle Studies was
donning a new, gravity-defying
hairstyle for the album cover.
But as single "Who Says"
demonstrates, the conventional
approach works for Mayer. Blas,
honest and simple, "Who Says"
dares the world to try and control
Mayer if he wants to "plan a trip to
Japan alone" or just "get stoned."
His sultry vocals and bouncy, teas-
ing guitar twangs play off each
other in a classic Mayer fashion.
His comfort with this style is evi-
dent - the combination works, he
knows it and it comes through in
the genuine nature of the tune.
Jaunty "Half of My Heart" fur-
ther exhibits Mayer in his element.
Featuring delicate embellish-
ments on electric guitar and in the
backup vocals of Taylor Swift (her

voice echoing Mayer's repetitive
declarations that he "can't stop
loving you"), "Half of My Heart"
stays true to Mayer's style, and its
unvarying acoustic guitar melody
never gets boring.
"Perfectly Lonely" and "Friends,
Lovers or Nothing" similarly pres-
ent Mayer at his best, adding more
electric guitar and keyboards to
the usual acoustic guitar and drum
formula. The dense instrumenta-
tion on the track contrasts with
Mayer's straightforward vocal
tone and message ("Friends, lov-
ers, or nothing / We'll never be
the in between / so give it up") in a
powerful way.
Some tracks, like "Edge of
Desire" and "Do You Know Me,"
demonstrate what happens to a
song when the balance between.

Mayer's
tion go
Mo
higi
an ince
from M
You Kn
from an
bal - th
and hu
overpos

s vocals and instrumenta-
es askew. In the former,
notonous, but
hly listenable.
ssant hi-hat heat detracts
layer's lilting vocals. "Do
ow Me" similarly suffers
n overuse of crash cym-
he intricate guitar medley
sky, low-range vocals are
wered by the obnoxiously

"Why has my Edward Cullen still not come for me?"
constant brushed-cynbal sound. be reined back in - it consumes
In both songs, the omission or Mayer, who does not alter his
reduction of the percussion ele- singing style to compete with the
ments could have allowed these monster he created.
tracks to breathe. What is particularly unsatis-
But no song destroys the Mayer fying about Battle Studies is its
sound as completely as "Assas- clunky pacing -Mayer clumps the
sins." Beginning with a repeti- good tracks.in the middle of the
tive and stagnant plinking sound album and encircles them with sig-
of a thumb piano, "Assassins" nificantly weaker material. In this
progresses into an unsettling sense, the standout songs become
rhythm that, when combined unjustly strangled by the less-
with heavy and distorted guitar worthy numbers. A simple rear-
melodies, Mayer cannot ground rangement of the album could have
with his mellow vocals. The ren- made Battle Studies more pleasant
egade instrumentation takes con- to listen to - after all, a bold new
trol, runs rampant and cannot hairstyle can't carry everything.

University of Michigan's
Largest
Selection of REALTY
Units Availableformmmediate Oc...pany
Off Campnus Now Leasing for 2010-2011
HUouses up to 14 bedrooms
gousin Church St.17341 995-5200
Ho uw rchrealtyco cor

ARTS IN BRIEF

TV REVIW
Doing your own stunts
isn't always enough
"Super Dave's Spike-tacular"
Tuesdays at 9 p.m.
Spike
"Super Dave's Spike-tacular" promises "the
best half hour of television ever" within the
first minute of its premiere. Well, bad things
happen to shows that lie, but karma concerns
must've been ignored by the macho man's
channel that is Spike. Because it's aware of its
flippant tone, this "Spike-tacular" stunt show
is a truthful tribute that's only for the old guys.
- the nostalgia seekers of the world.

The headline "Spike-tacular" guarantees
American-dream stunt mayhem: red-wite-
and-blue scantily clad women and plenty
of testosterone. Bob Einstein ('Curb Your
Enthusiasm") plays Super Dave Osbourn, the
confident, cool yet clumsy stuntman. Though
Super Dave often gets injured when his stunts
go awry, "Spike-tacular" fails to deliver the
raw action that compels fist pumps and high
fives from dudes everywhere. In each of the
stunt's opening sequences, Super Dave is
either squashed by a horribly computer-gener-
ated demolition ball or blown up in a race car
before it can happen. But there's not even any
blood or guts, man!
The tacky stunts in "Super Dave" are as
stock as the stupid drunk exploits found on
YouTube, lN fact, it's hard to remember this
is an actual show and not some dude taping
a slow-speed chase through empty streets.

"Spike-tacular" is really a mock reality show
in this sense, and it doesn't take itself serious-
ly. in order to extract any enjoyment, its audi-
ence must do the same.
Look, Super Dave was born in 1942 and he
doesn't have to obey the rules. He's an old-
fashioned stuntman, and when that's taken
into consideration, the lame jokes and awk-
ward humor transform into sympathetically
cute grasedpa-esque TV.
There are only four episodes of the "Spike-
tacular," and it's worth it to watch one of
them, laugh at the stupidity and compare how
its special effects rival those done on iMovie.
Super Dave knows this isn't the best half hour
on television, but grandpas also know their
grandkids aren't the cutest kids ever. Some-
times a lie can be soup for the soul, and Super
Dave does his best to keep it well fed.
CRISTINA ANGER

A I


6- Tuesday, November 24, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

*I

Scio Farms of Sun Homes has a great 2
bed 2 bath home for sale at only $699
per month, for 3 years. Financing avail-
able, Ann Arbor Schools, - Call today
this one won't last
888-883-7083 wwwvsciofarmscom

PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
AUTOMOTIVE
1993 PONTIAC GRAND Am Se
*****REDUCED*****
Sporty, dependable ride $1295
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1994 JEEP CHEROKEE 4x4
Runs great, $2795
810-229-9750 www.cttnas.com
1995 OLDS CUTLASS Supreme
LOW MILES, Looks & runs great
$2995 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
197 CHEVY CAVALIER 4 door
*****REDUCED*****
Automatic, runs great $2995
810-225-9750 www.cttmas.com
1997 CHEVY MONTE Carlo
Sharp looking, runs great $3995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 MERCURY MOUNTAINEER
AWD Fully Loaded, All Wheel Drive
$2795 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 PONTIAC MONTANA Van
*****REDUCED*****
Dependable Transportation $1995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1998 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
*****REDUCED*****
Flex fuel engine, Sharp looking $1695.
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
2001 DODGE DAKOTA X-cab 4x4
$6999 Like new, loaded 4x4
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
FOR RENT
5 BDRM houses Avail Fall 2010:
717 Dewey: $2750/mo, 833 Brown:
$2750/mo, 930 Dewey: $2900/mo. Call
Louis at 610-952-5269 or email
ouisbreskmanyahoo.com
1 BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
rooms $840-$985.
Availoble August 27th, 2010.
We offer fully furnished apartment
at no extra cost!
For more info call 734-662-4446 or visit
www.issaproperties.comu
3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood firs,
deck off back, on site parking, heal &
water incl. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.umcampushousing.com
4 BDRM house. May '10. Mary Ct.
IM bldg. Prkg. $2290. 845-399-9904.

'tt't 4the Dim
al6
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.74 1.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for next year - NO MONEY
DOWN till 2010. Sign by Nov. 25. All-
new, furnished. 2 blocks from Central
Campus, all utilities included, per-per-
son contracts. 734-998-4400.
www.4elevenlofts.com
6-8 Bedroom Large Houses !
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Furn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. hardwood
f8rs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.utttcampusltousing.com
-eps. A201
HosesAvailabl

ch t1ic idpanDail~

Beds
6
6
5
4

Location Rent
1122 S. Forest $3600
812 McKinley $3500
1120 S. Forest $3000
715 Catherine $2300,

Copi Properties
734.663.5609
WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, furmisled option. Email
info issaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.cotnt
or call 734-662-4446.
! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedroons Near Campus, 8 mO
lease. APPLY NOW forAttg/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylas ri.,tttinich.edu.
www.nancylat.com
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrtns lots of closet space, fat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartmetsits.net

Onine Clasfd
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
1! AVAILABLE FALL2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfumished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtlcityahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing for 2010. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 for assistance.
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen. Must see! (313) 562-5756.
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEYEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished.
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartmets.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths. flat screen tv, dishwasher. mod-
em furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrt. house. Walking distance froat
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL2010* HUGE 2 Bdrt
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APAHTMRl'P Wre Cheaper add
MUCH Better than the Dorms! Dont
lose $100 CASH, ask us how to get it.
Check ts out and get a FREE Bubble
Islaud. dink sviluny new tourl We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments.
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 Hamilton.
10B RM house217N. tgalls.
u-places.com 734478.2936.
REALTY
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New)
1021 E. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard

507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8 br)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S. University (9 br)
1014 Vaughn (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
P zza /od
616 Church Street
For details Call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyCo.com

FALL 2010 HOUSES
non-s NTHv S G I NC # Beds Locattun Rent
Now Showing for 7 510 Catherine $3700
Fall 2010-2011!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms 7 1129 White St. $3400
Apartments!! 6 412 N.Thayer $3600
" Central Campus locations 6 415 N.Thayer $3600
* T~ully Furnished6 418 N. State $3600
* *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included 6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance 5 1024 Packard $2800
Call us today to find your 4 1117 S. Forest $2440
home for the fall!!
3 507 Sauer Cc $2000
*Varies by location
734.761.8000 CAPPOIDEINCO
www.primesh.com 734-996-1991
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo- 4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
cated on S. University less than a 5 July. Large modem kitchen, 1.5 baths,
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park- fully furnished and much more! 741-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with 9300 www.annarborapartments.net
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email 5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
ctraband'i/archrealtyco.com 2 bath. Free prkg. & 1dry. 5 min. walk
-_to Union. $2450 + util. 734-709-5709.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan StadiumV
ROOMS AVAILABLE,
Three bedroom house, two car garage, $450-$500. Two locations near cam-
sunroom. formal dining room, dish- pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans i i iStudio & 1
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663- Bdrm. Units
4101.
.TOwer Plaza Condominium
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in ow Pla
the shadow of 1U of M hospital on -n n. msic.
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ttg itcluded. Move in today. Call Cam- 734-663-1530
pus Management 734-663-4101.

Beds Location Rent
6 1029 Vaughn $4200
6 1021 Church $3700
6 541 S. Division $3500
6 930 Packard $3200
5 1101 Church $3000
4 1018 E. University $2600
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
2 & 3BDRM APARTMENTS avail-
able for Fall 2010 915/919 South Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of Hoover
and south of B ejamin, across from El-
bel Field, Furished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. tBD-$840
2BD-$1100, 3BD-$1750, Spacious
Bedrootns and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2mtanagenest(//comcast.net
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileyproperties.con
(734) 761-4469
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, . 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamnin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
7 BDRIM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.

5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Cheurch and S. University above
Amers. Entire building s beencom-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (leather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
CoUnter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances. Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-$785.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tour.
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
O~n Chsurch St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Cult Laura at Csurch Street Apa-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, .$2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptneroa concast.net
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
houise is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard.sTiset ome has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
* Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
". 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Beds Location Rent
6 1121 Church $3500
6 543 S. Division #2 $3000
6 1221 S. State #2 $2500
5 1117 Church #1 $3000
5 420 S. Division #2 $300
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag his fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still e able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty ofparking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommatestltt Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people.Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.ic.cohp 734-662-4414.
1029 VAUGHN
6 BDRM + STUDY
3 BATHS, $4200
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with I100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPOIDEINCO
(734) 995-1991
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
itg, many are furished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. NOW FOR 2010. 2 spacius
furn. 5 bdrm apts. Can be combined as
tO bdrm hse. Call 734-665-2723 or
visit www.ShahProperties.com
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts

Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com


1
i
i
1
1
1
1
G
G
L
r
G
G
V
7
7
V
7



Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Toledo's lake 34 Consequently 47 Wilma's mate
1 Job detail, briefly - 4 Freeforn doubt 35 Academic honor 48 Greet the day
5 First appearance 5 California senator 37 Tea named for 49 Cocksure
10 Irish dances Feinstein William IV's Aesopian racer
14 Prefix with space 6 Maritime raptors prime minister 50 "Saturday Night
15 Really peeved 7 Robin Hood's 38 True-blue Live" alum Fey
16 Campus south of merry men, e.g. 43 Mai - : cocktail 51 Outback runners
Sunset Blvd. 8 Longhorn State 44 Breaks off 52 O'Hara home
17 Investor's goal sch. 45 Roaches, ants, 53 Action film gun
18 Subsidiary 9 Oil, informally etc. 56 Gen--:
building 10 Biblical traitor 46 Bowler's boomer's kid,
19 Thoughtful 11 Rapper-turned- headache usually
20 Sophisticated actor ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
taste, foodwise 12 Tickled-pink
23B&Bs feeling SLAMS H A R M S H AIM
24 Jane Fondato 13 Mapleyield T A R 0 T B E A U H 0 S E
Peter 21 Bay or cove A N K L E B 0 0 T S I N C A
25 Ping-Pong need 22 ActressTyler B AS L Y N E C N O I R
28Airing asan 25Oflthe Holy See L E A S A N G R I A
ESPNgame 26 Showingshock 0 L D H A N D S T A a
30 Schmooze 27 Plumbing DIII OL LA M AIM AS
33 See eyetoeye problems DEEP WAACS RAGA
34 "Night"author 28 Jimmy of the S a S H I I S T O D U E L
Wiesel Daily Planet use HILLSIDE
35 Nod off 29 Playfulbites HANGMAN NAE
36Studioitemwith 30Gangster AGOG RIM R E AD S
a thumb hole dubb d"Te DANE LEGWARMERS
39 Datebook entry: Teflon Don" E VE RA AC E AS E A T

i
t
i
r

01

Abbr. 31 Ancient Me
40 Improves in the 32 Tavern roui
wine cellar 1 2 3 4
41 Weutern
.42Guitarist Paul 14
43 1982 Disney to
sci-fimovie
44 Pessistic types 20
48 Sidekick
46 Sargasso et al. 2
47 Portable shipping 2a 26 27
platform
53 "The Haj" novelist 33
54 Racetrack ,,
borders
55 Giant ucreen a
forwat
57Vitai n42
58 Els on the links a
59 Free from doubt
60 Foreboding date 47148
for Caesar 53
61 Dublin-born poet
62 Romanov ruler 57
DOWN
1 Droop By Gary J. white]
2Anjouor Bosc (c)209Tribune

end xword ditoraoi. oml' 11 IM/23/09
4 5 6 7 8 8 10 11 12 13
15 16
18 .19
21 22
28 29 30 31 32
40 41
s5 48
48 50 51 52
54 55 56
ehead 1/40
Media Services,[inc.

$100 FREE CASH with every
NEW Reservation.
*endson December 2,2009
Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink with
any new toutr!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMpus, FURNISHED
STUnO,1, 2& 3 BEDROOMS
CHEAPERAND MUCH
BE TTER THAN TH1EDORMS!
YO1) DESEIRVE TO MO VE UN
Contfact usfor a
tour todeay!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIXERSiTTOWERS-Mt.COM
Unierity

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 24, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November 24, 2009 - 7

* SACUA
From Page 1
The 2 million-square-foot com-
plex is expected to create more
than 2,000 jobs over the next
decade.
But University officials have
expressed concerns duringthe last
few months about how to handle
the expected increase in traffic to
North Campus.
In October, President Mary
Sue Coleman announced in her
State of the University Address
she would form a committee
focused on improving transporta-
tion and avoiding problems from
the expected flow of people to the
NCRC.
According to Forrest, one of the
main issues with the University's
transportation system is that very
few faculty and staff members
ride the bus. In fact, Forrest said
he drives from North to Central
Campus about once a day, which
usually takes about 15 minutes
including time to get through traf-
fic and find a place to park.
"I find the whole process
stressful, but there's no alterna-
tive really," he said. "It's far more
efficient than taking the bus, so
therefore that's the problem, and
until we can get professors to use
it, it's really not a transportation
\system that's serving the com-
munity."
SACUA members agreed with
Forrest's remarks.
Wayne Stark, professor of elec-
trical engineering and computer
science, said he believes 95 per-
cent of people who ride the buses
are students, while SACUA Chair
Michael Thouless, professor of
material science and engineer-
ing, said he sometimes avoids
traveling between campuses all
together.
"I would go to physics seminars,
but I don't," Thouless said.
Stark suggested that a new
system with monorails or trains
would be more efficient than the
current bus system.
Forrest shared a similar opin-
ion, and said a "usable system"
would involve something that
was connected indoors, came in
SEARCH
From Page 1
until an announcement of a
selected candidate," the release
states. "President Coleman has
stressed that she will make
a thoughtful and deliberate

10-minute intervals or less and
had predictable arrival and depar-
ture times.
"There has to be a predictabil-
ity that it will go there or be here
within a certain time," Forrest
said, "and to have it so you don't
feel like you're walking across
vacant lots and open air and snow
to get there waiting for that thing
to happen."
The major drawback of creat-
ing a new system is that it will be
expensive, but Forrest said the
project is necessary to unite the
two campuses.
"We need to get people to feel
that the campus is not two or three
different campuses," he said.
In addition to discussing
transportation to North Cam-
pus, Forrest also talked about the
University's decision to continue
to partner with General Motors,
despite the fact that the company
filed for bankruptcy in June.
"We stuck with them, and they
stuck with us," he said.
Forrest highlighted the rich
history between the company and
the University.
Last May, GM and the Universi-
ty teamed up to form the GM/U-M
Institute of Automotive Research
and Education. The institute is
just one collaboration between
the University and GM, which
continued 50 years of partnership
between the two entities.
Upon recently being asked
whether the University would
continue its association with GM
after the bankruptcy, Forrest said,
"it took me about three seconds to
answer'of course we will."'
Forrest said the $200 million
that the University has received in
stimulus funds has helped offset
the effect of GM's bankruptcy on
research projects funded by GM.
He added that automotive
research has continued with
developments in advanced batter-
ies, engines and biofuels.
"It's a great deal of fun right
now," he said. "Probably they're
not the biggest issues that I'm
working on, but they're probably
the most exciting."
- Natalie Berkus
contributed to this report.
choice."
A full job description for the
position was also released yes-
terday morning. According to
the release, duties will remain
consistent with Martin's cur-
rent duties - essentially manag-
ing all activities of the overall
department.

GRANHOLM
From Page 1
The Office of the Vice Presi-
dent provided a bus for students
from the University to travel to
Ypsilanti to listen to the governor
speak. MSA Business Rep. Jason
Raymond said that about 20 peo-
ple from the University attended
the event.
Raymond was part of a round-
table discussion the governor held
with student leaders from several
universities behind closed doors.
He said Granholm made a few
brief remarks and then took ques-
tions from the students.
"Basically, these questions
focused on why the Promise
Scholarship was cut," Raymond

said, "what were the contingency
plans to potentially refund it and
what her view of the whole situa-
tion was."
LSA Student Government Rep.
Carly Goldberg was among the
University students who trav-
eled to Ypsilanti on the provided
bus. She said the Michigan Prom-
ise Scholarship had significantly
helped her family in the past, and
that it's a huge burden on her par-
ents now that it has been cut.
"There were $3,000 I could've
gotten that was taken away," Gold-
berg said. "My sister is coming
here next year so those $4,000 that
she could've gotten, my parents
won't get either. So that's $7,000.
It makes a difference."
LSA Student Government Trea-
surer Steven Benson, a former

Promise Scholarship recipient,
said he believed the cut could
cause fewer students to enroll at
state universities.*
"A lot of people are goingto have
a hard time paying for college and
even if it's only $4,000 it can defi-
nitely help. But, now it's gone and
students that don't have financial
resources now need to look else-
where for scholarships, so it's kind
of unfortunate. "
Granholm visited a handful of
colleges and universities across
the state last week - including
Michigan State University - and
will visit a few more this week.
A press release issuedby the Gov-
ernor's office last week said she was
goingto come to Ann Arbor to speak
at the University of Michigan.
But a representative from the

Governor's office told The Michi-
gan Daily late last week that the
governor's visit has since been
removed from the agenda.
"I can't get to everybody, but
I'm completely supportive and
appreciate the fact that students
were here from the University of
Michigan and the leadership from
University of Michigan was here,"
Granholm said in an interview
after the event. "I'm very grateful
for that."
University spokeswoman Debo-
rah Greene said the governor's office
never formally made contact with
the University to plan the visit.
The governor's office said the
announcement was made before
the governor's schedule was final-
ized and a trip to Ann Arbor sim-
ply would not fit into her plans.


SYMPOSIUM
From Page 1
mitigating the effects of the eco-
nomic downturn, like downsizing
and mortgaging plants.
"(Ford) had good product, and
GM had good product, but they got
right-sized and they mortgaged
their plants while they still could,"
she said. "If you look at their bal-
ance sheet, it's pretty rough now.
But if the economy comes back, that
means they'll have been able to get
through it without disappointing
their shareholders and bondhold-
ers."
Because of the federal bailout
last spring, Karaboutis said the
U.S. Treasury now owns about 61
percent of GM, while bondholders,
the United Auto Workers health
care trust fund and the Canadian
government own the remaining
shares.
Kataboutis said GM is taking
a holistic approach to improve

its business, continuing some of
the reformative measures initi-
ated prior to the bailout. Some
goals center on consolidation of
their brands, modifying corpo-
rate culture to improve employee
satisfaction and a refined, IT-
oriented focus on communication
with customers.
"We're looking at this from every
corner of the company," she said.
Karaboutis said the changes
enacted thus far appearto have had
a positive effect, as October 2009
was GM's first year-over-year sales
increase in 21 months.
Slubowski's remarks were more
focused on the future, as health
insurance reform remains a hotly
debated topic.
The current health care system
is unsustainable because of poor
coordination between insurance
companies and care providers, a
wasteful fee-for-service system -
all of which exacerbate one anoth-
er, according to Slubowski.
Slubowski added that grave but

necessary considerations await
health care consumers, most nota-
bly in the form of advance direc-
tives and end-of-life preferences,
each of which can be problematic
when neglected.
He mentioned a friend and life-
long smoker who died of cancer
after months of costly treatment to
illustrate the trend that most Medi-
care spending occurs in the last
years and months of life. He said
the poor quality of life his friend
had in his last days made him ques-
tion the prudence of the decision to
keep receiving care.
"And, answering that, I have
to know from an economic stand-
point," he said, "what did that cost?
How many children could have
been immunized?"
Both speakers stressed the
importance of consumer respon-
sibility in helping the health
insurance and auto industries
recover. In particular, Slubowski
extolled healthy habits and keep-
ing a personal health record in

order to avoid disjointed care and
higher c&sts.
"You are the best advocate for
your own health and the health of
the ones you love," he said. "I don't
care if it's electronic or on paper.
Know your medical history."
Business senior TarunrKajeepe-
ta, Phi Chi Theta's vice president of
external affairs, said he appreciated
the speakers' candidness.
"A lot of times you can just put up
a front and say 'GM is doing great,
we want you all to be optimistic
about it,' but they really want to not
only teach a lot to the people here,
but learn from it themselves," he
said.
LSA freshman Laurel Chamber-
lain said she enjoyed hearing the
corporate representatives disclose
a mix of opinions and facts.
"I think it really gave mqe a new
perspective because all we hear is
what's in the news, and it generally
isn't too positive," she said. "So it
was really good to hear itl'rom their
point of view."


CHI PSI
From Page 1
with the fraternity," he said. "He
was not a guest at the event nor was
he at all affiliated as a brother or
pledge."
Monroe told the Daily Sun-
day that both the accuser and the

suspect were 18-year-old Univer-
sity students who knew each other
before the incident, but couldn't
comment further because the
investigation is ongoing.
AnnArbor.com is reporting that
a Michigan football player was
arrested and questioned regarding
the incident and was released Sun-
day. Taub couldn't confirm that the

suspect is on the football team.
"I don't know enough to confirm
or deny that," he said.
Asked whether or not the event
on Saturday night was registered
with the Interfraternity Council,
Taub said he couldn't comment.
Taub added that he couldn't
comment further on the incident
because there is an ongoing police

investigation.
"I really cannot give much more
information that I have told you
so far," he said. "It's an ongoing
investigation, we don't want to
step on the toes of anyone, espe-
cially the police who have kept
very quiet on this issue so we don't
want to interfere with anything
that's going on."

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com to get started.

3 kitchen, ldry, prkg, (734) 272-1320. stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi- $1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/ 734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250,
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep- ehtseng@comcast.net
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256. LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE the business school. Heat, water and
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam- parking included. Call Campus Man-
pus with newer kitchen and dish- agement 734-663-4101.
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
734-995-9200 for details. avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water mcl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information, call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
FALL APARTMENT-LRG 2 Bdrm.,
very nice, 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furnished,
dishwasher, disposal, ldry. Heat, water,
and prkg. included. $1200 + electric.
(734) 662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcgtobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-in garage. Cathedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gunnerbl7@aol.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING 2010-11
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-1999
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
726 S. State
1921 Vaughn
100 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1339 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
4 Bedroom:
720 S. State
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
( At most locations)
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com

STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi- HELP WANTED
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101. !!!BARTENDINGl!! $300 /day poten-
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy? tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
Check out all of the available proper- AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ties for sale in the area. EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
www.ISelIA2.com 734-476-9768 needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
WWW.800FULLER.COM ing a mystery shopper. No experience
(734) 769-7520 required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi. FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
*VARSITY MANAGEMENT: pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.varsitymanagement.com www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
(734) 668-1100
All apts. are fully furnished, have new NEED CASH? EARN' up to $1,000
kitchens w/ dishwashers, include heat, during finals week! Better World
water, most incl. parking, some incl. Books needs your help buying text-
wireless/ books and collecting textbook dona-
-BI-LEVEL 2 BED 2 BATH: tions. Help your friends get more cash
515 Walnut, huge apts. perfect for 4! for their books and earn money in the
Close to CCRB and CC Little. process. Contact Emily at 574-855-
-FOREST TERRACE: 1001 S. For- 5206 or go to www.betterworldbooks.-
est, huge, sunny, 2-bedrooms large com/campusoperative
enough for 4! All w/ big beautiful PART TIME WORK
kitchens. PR IEWR
-543 CHURCH ST: 2 & 4 bdrm bi- Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
levels, andhuge 2-bdrms for4. Theper- ible around classes, will train.
feet location! Parking extra for this lo- 734-677-2477. www.earnparttime.com
cation. STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
*PARK TERRACE: 848 Tappan, cor- Paid survey takers needed inA2:
ner of Tappan & Oakland, huge 2-bed- 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
rooms w/ new kitchens and great bal -______________
conies! Underground parking. SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
-BURNS PARK: 1039 Baldwin, mas- $5-$25 per survey.
sive, gorgeous apts. in a converted man- www.GetPaidToThink.com
sion. Hardwood floors, 10ft ceilings,
fireplaces. You've got to see these!
Studio, 2bds, & 4 bds avail.
CH ILDCA RE
SUBL E TSCHILDCARE FOR 7YR old son of
UM professor and entrepreneurial wife.
Care in A2 home for 12 hrs a week.
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR Great ref(s) req., 1-2 yr. commitment
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks pref, must have car. Email resume to
to stay with your friends for the week- cherylb@humaxnetworks.com
end Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our s- EXPERIENCED DRIVER WITH
sured service rents out houses and good driving record needed to pick and
apartments to alumni for football/bas- drop two kids from St. Francis school.
ketball weekends and puts money in Please call for more info 313-399-0652.
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com,

For Wednesday, Nov. 25, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Unexpected gifts and goodies might
come your way today. Alternatively, you
suddenly might give someone a gift.
(What goes around comes around.)
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Surprise get-togethers with partners
and close friends will be upbeat, friendly
and a little different today. Someone new
and interesting might cross your path.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
You might receive unexpected praise
or even an unexpected raise at work
today. Similarly, surprisingly you get
good news related to your health or even
a small pet.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
A playful, surprising flirtation might
make your day. Unexpected invitations
to parties, the theater or sports events
also could please you. New love can
blossom.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Surprise company might drop by
today. You might buy something very
modern or high-tech for your home or a
family member. Your domestic scene is
unpredictable.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 toSept. 22)
You're bound to meet someone new
who is different, unusual and probably
unorthodox today. This is a classic day to
meet a real character!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 toOct. 22)
You might find money today; you
might lose money. Spontaneous pur-
chases likely will please you. You might
find a new job! Your financial scene is
full of surprises.

SCORPIO
(Oct.23 to Nov. 21)
You're excited and ready for adven-
ture! You want something different to
happen. Don't worry - it will! Either
you'll meet new people or existing
friends will surprise you.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You feel restless today. You want
something different to happen, but
you're not sure what. In one way, you're
waiting for the other shoe to drop. (Let's
hope it's the same size as the first one.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You might be surprised by the deci-
sion of a group today. Or perhaps a
member of a group will do something
unusual. Expect a bizarre encounter with
someone.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
A boss, parent, teacher, or authority
figure might do somethingthat surprises
you today. Or possibly vice versa - you
surprise them. Stay on your toes.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Grab any unexpected opportunity to
travel or get further education or training
today. Because your window of opportu-
nity will be brief, you will have to act
quickly. (Like now!)
YOU BORN TODAY You're
extremely organized and hardworking.
You know what you want, and you go
after it. You are talented, capable and
motivated to succeed. You have a strong
code of personal ethics. Many of you
also are passionate about a hobby. (Yost
home is very importani you.) After
focusing on partnerships this year, next
year will involve an important choice for
you.
Birthdate of: Christina Applegate,
actress; John F. Kennedy Jr.
editor/lawyer; Ben Stein, personality.

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

aSuP nnaRK2a ae, ei Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net



i

0


8 - Tuesday, November 24, 2009 -

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

M power play comes
alive vs. Bowling Green

By RYAN KARTJE "We've been snakebit offen-
Daily Sports Writer sively," Berenson said Saturday
when asked about the weak power
TOLEDO, Ohio - Michigan play. "When Michigan plays five
coach Red Berenson made the games and only scores six goals,,
power play a priority tjhis season. I can't remember in my long-term
According' to Berenson, this memory that happening."
year's Wolverines have spentmore in addition to ending their los-
time practicingspecial teamsthan ing skid Saturday in Toledo with
any team he has ever coached. a 4-1 win, the Wolverines ended
After all, the unit was mediocre at their drought on the power play
best last year, with a 15.8 percent this weekend. Junior center Louie
power play conversion rate. Caporusso scored with the man
So after the first period of advantage on Friday and fresh-
Michigan's home opener against man forward Chris Brown lit the
Niagara, it looked as though prac- lamp in Saturday's third period.
tice had made perfect. The Wol- "It was huge to get those goals,"
verines lit the lamp on four of junior forward Carl Hagelin said.
their first eight power plays this "We haven't been scoring lately on
year, dominating with the man the power play or on the 5-on-5. It
advantage. starts with the power play."
But after the team managed Despite the team's trouble scor-
just six goals in its five-game los- ing on the power play, a dominant
ing streak, Michigan's power play penalty kill has kept Michigan's
went into a tailspin. The Wolver- special. teams play relevant for
ines mustered just three goals in much of the season, checking in at
49 attempts, two of which came almost 90 percent after this week-
against CCHA basement-dweller end.
Lake Superior State. Heading But it was two penalty-killing
into the weekend's series against mistakes that doomed the Wol-
Bowling Green, the Wolverines' verines in their 4-2 loss in the
anemic power play hit a low at 83 weekend's first game.
percent on the season. In the third period, senior

defenseman Steve Kampfer took
an ill-advised penalty to put
Michigan on the wrong end of a
5-oen-3. As a result, Bowling Green
scored three goals, including two
on the power play, in a span of just
over two minutes.
Despite the poor performance 0
with a man down on Friday, Mich-
igan still retained its place as the
top penalty kill in the conference
and sixth best in the nation.
The weekend's two power play
goals may not have affected the
final outcome of either game, but
the momentum from both scores
will do a great deal for a team that
was lacking confidence on special
teams and offense.
And for Caporusso, who tal-
lied two assists in addition to his
goal, it could be just enough to
turn around his scoring woes this
season.
Whatever the win does for the
team's confidence, Berensonis
just relieved to see glimpses some
of his expectations for the offense
and special teams come to fruition
over the weekend.
"We haven't turned the corner,"
Berenson said. "But we definitely
stopped the bleeding."

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Sophomore Robbie Czarnik tallied three goals and three assists this season. He is expected to play for the Plymouth Whalers tonight.
Sop homore forward
quits hockey team

By NICK SPAR He showed marked improvement
Daily Sparta Writer at the beginnitng of his sophomore
season, 'highlighted by his two-
A familiar face was missing at point performance in Michigan's
yesterday's hockey practice, and it win against Niagara on Oct. 22. It
won't be coming back. was the first multi-point game of
Michigan coach Red Berenson his young career, and he scored the
announced yesterday that sopho- game-winninggoal.
more forward Robbie Czarnik has But Czarnik amassed just three
quit the team and signed with the points in the last nine games and
Plymouth Whalers of the Ontario had been relegated to the third line
Hockey League (OHL). last weekend against the Falcons.
He will make his debut with the Still, Berenson was hopeful that
Whalers today against the Windsor he would ultimately live up to his
Spitfires. potential in a Michigan uniform.
Czarnik, a 2008 third-round "We have had meetings about
draft pick of the L.A. Kings, will his development and about his role
continue going to school at Michi- and about what he can improve on,
gan. how he's feeling about everything,"
He tallied three goals and three Berenson said. "We've never
assists this season with the Wol- benched him, never sat him out.
verines and contributed a goal last We have always encouraged him
Friday in a loss against Bowling and tried to put him in a role where
Green. he might succeed."
"H-e's just not happy," Berenson Czarnik played center and right
said. "He hasn't been happy since wingthisseason,leavinganobvious
he's been here. ... Things haven't void on the front line to fill. Senior
gone maybe the way he expected Anthony Ciraulo and freshman
them to go. Lindsay Sparks had been scratched
"(Robbie is) just one of those from the majority of games this sea-
kids that's been down all the time. son, but both saw action last week-
We're trying to pick him up -'It's end and are possible candidates for
okay, Robbie. You're a good player,' Czarnik's replacement.
and on and on. But this is the end Associate head coach Mel Pear-
result." son also mentioned the possibil-
Callsto the Czarnik family about ity of moving senior captain Chris
his decision to leave the team were Summers from defense to offense.
not returned. Summers has experience as a for-
Most of Czarnik's frustration ward, and the Wolverines have
stems from last year's disappoint- more depth on the blue line than on
ing freshman campaign. He was offense.
one of the most highly touted for- Pearson also discussed the
ward recruits Michigan has had effects on the program's recruiting
in years, but he didn't meet lofty process. He said the team will now
expectations, notching just five try to sign another forward. With
goals and 11 assists in 2008-09. almost three seasons of eligibility

Peale's All-American effort
is lone highlight at NCAAs

Marquee goalie
recruit likely to
choose OHL
The Michigan hockey team
received its annual list of
National Letters of Intent yes-
terday for next year's freshman
class. But it's the one player who
didn't sign that's making more
news than those who did sign.
Top goaltending recruit Jack
Campbell - who had made a
verbal commitment to Michigan
- unexpectedly didn't commit
to the Wolverines, and instead is
expected to sign with the Wind-
sor Spitfires of the OHL.
The Wolverines did sign for-
wards Jacob Fallon and Luke
Moffatt and defensemen Mac
Bennett, Kevin Clare and Jon
Merrill. Bennett is the only play-
er of the five commits that isn't
currently playing for the NTDP
with Campbell.
remaining, Czarnik was part of the
Wolverines' long-term plans.
Despite the difficult situation the
team now faces, Berenson is more
upset that Czarnik didn't choose
to work through his own personal
troubles.
"I'm disappointed that he's
giving up on the hockey front (at
Michigan)," Berenson said. "Things
don't always go your way when you
get to this level, but I hoped he
would have persevered. I think last
year was a real challenge for him,
emotionally, and he just never got
over it."

By TIM ROHAN any of
Daily Sports Writer greats:
Mic

Last summer, redshirt sopho-
more Kaitlyn Peale was just
another member of the women's
cross country team.
Now, she's an All-American.
Peale says that at the begin-
ning of the season, she would
have laughed at the idea of being
one of the top cross country run-
ners in the nation by November.
But that's exactly what happened
yesterday at the NCAA champi-
onships in Terre Haute, Ind.
She finished 32nd overall
(20:38) in her first national race.
After discovering she had food
allergies before the season, Peale
changed her diet and found she
had lot more energy.
She started the 2009 season in
grand fashion, with fourth-place,
seventh-place, fourth-place and
first-place finishes. Peale placed
in the top 4 four times this sea-
son.
A year ago, her best race was a
seventh-place finish at the Michi-
gan Open.
- "I've slowly gotten better
throughout the season, so it's just
kind of been like a growing goal,"
Peale said of how she has raised
her expectations. "I feel like each
week, you've improved this much,
so this is possible for Big Tens.
And then after that, maybe this (is
possible) for Regionals. It's been a
growing thing all season.
"But I definitely did not expect

made s
finishin
The sti
fast sta
aggress
Peal
for Mic
out of3
NCAA
was an
the Wol

"I
no
of

this back in August. It's a just being at this (meet)."
urprise." The other Wolverine runners
higan coach Mike McGuire to score finished within nine
ure Peale.was focused on seconds of each other: freshman
ng in the top 40 at NCAAs. Kaitlyn Patterson (176th over-
rategy was to get out to a all), redshirt junior Rachel White
trt, maintain her pace and (109th), freshman Rebecca Addi-
sively try to pass people. son (192nd) and redshirt junior
e was the lone bright spot Rachel Severin (192nd).
chigan, as it finished 27th Michigan's inexperience led
31 teams competing at the to a poor start for most of the
Championships. But this Wolverine runners and, outside
odd year for McGuire and of Peale, they lacked the poise to
Iverines. get back into the race. McGuire
preached to the team about the
importance of not paying atten-
tion to their individual places.
definitely did Even with 30 runners around
her rather than the usual hand-
it expect any ful, Peale was not overwhelmed.
She executed her game plan and
this back in exuded the focus that McGuire
wanted for his whole team.
August." "They take it back as a learning
experience," McGuire said. "You
come to the line the next time ...
you know what is required to get
e of the seven girls compet- out at this level of a meet. And you
he race had ever run in the have 255 athletes that are pretty
s before. darn good. We've been in meets
just didn't have the per- with good athletes. We've just
this year that we've had in never been in a meet with this
st that we could really get many good athletes."
e and knock it out of the Yesterday's race could pay divi-
McGuire said. "I think a lot dends down the road.
ple 'thought on paper that "It was a great experience for
ight be the year that we everyone," Peale said. "Everyone
go. will grow from this.
battled through some i "I learned a lot from the race
We've got good kids here. and I'm pretty sure everyone else
e got to get this one under did, too. I'm really excited for
elt. And you can learn a lot next year."

Non
ing in t
NCAA:
"We
sonnel
the pa:
in ther
park,":
of peo
this m
didn't
"We
things.
They'v
their b

Sims reaches milestone, but Blue struggles rebounding

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
On a night where senior for-
ward DeShawn Sims celebrated
his 500th career rebound, it makes
sense that the teams focused on
the boards.
But not in the way the Michigan
men's basketball
team would have NOTEBOOK
liked.
During Friday's win over Hous-
ton Baptist, the Wolverines were
outrebounded by the Huskies
52-39.
That 13-rebound difference
jumps off the stat sheet - and
should be a concern - but Michi-
gan felt that it wasn't exactly a
perfect representation of its play.
In fact, players and coach John
Beilein attributed the disparity to
Houston Baptist power forward
Mario Flaherty, who leads his
team in rebounding.
Flaherty alone accounted for
13 boards, nine offensive and four
defensive.
"We were going in aggressive-
ly to rebound," Sims said. "Balls
didn't tip our way, and (Flaherty)
and some of the other guys got in
there, and they did a great job of
crashing offensive boards.
"Credit to them, but we had our

hands on a lot of those rebounds.
It wasn't a lot of clear offensive
rebounds."
Even though they weren't easy
rebounds, they still showed up on
the scoreboard. The Huskies took
advantage of the glass throughout
Friday's game, particularly in the
first 13 minutes, when they built
and maintained a lead over the
Wolverines.
"They're more athletic than
they look, and they did a number
on us a few times on the boards,"
Beilein said.
Beilein said it's good for his
players to face a team that features
a scrappy scorer like Flaherty.
Beilein seemed almost excited
to watch film and find the areas
his team needs to improve - in
rebounding, of course, but also
transition defense.
"We'll see more when I see the
tape," Beilein said after Friday's
game. "They're really good at
learning from the film when they
see it."
COLD STREAK: Michigan start-
ed Friday's game just about as
ice-cold as a team could be - espe-
cially from an area of the court it
normally counts on.
Through the first 14 minutes of
the contest, the Wolverines shot
a measly 1-of-11 from behind the

looked too easy. Performances like
freshman Matt Vogrich's 5-of-
5 from beyond the arc against
Northern Michigan felt far differ-
ent than that miserable start.
Though the players tried to
articulate what led to their cold
stretch, it was difficult to pinpoint
the problem.
Junior Manny Harris simply
called it "frustrating."
"We just were a little shaky on
offense," sophomore Zack Novak
said. "We weren't exactly execut-
ing like we know how to. We just
took shots out of rhythm."
CRONIN UPDATE: With 2:11
remaining in regulation, redshirt
freshman Ben Cronin entered the
game.
With Michigan nursing a
22-point lead at the time, it wasn't
a crucial point in the game.
But it's part of an important
step in Cronin's recovery from last
year's hip surgery.
Last week, Beilein hinted that
Cronin wouldn't see playing time
for a while.
After the season opener, 'he
sported a taped-up wrist.
"I was ready if he put me in, but
I don't 'really have any expecta-
tions right now except to work and
get healthier, start moving a little
better," Cronin said.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior DeShawn Sims pulled in his 500th career rebound against Houston Baptist in Michigan's win Friday night.
3-point line. sometimes are looking for a great at "great" plays in its exhibition
"Sometimes we over-penetrated play. What's a greater play? There's game or season opener against
and didn't hit the obvious- play," an easier one right in front of you." Northern Michigan. In fact, the
Beilein said. "It happens. People Michigan didn't force attempts Wolverines made plays that almost

A

A A


