TDENT SHAKESPEARES A
Fom p"tr tprose, campus's "ierr talents Daily Arts is notoriousl
wr ite a ut iscarr ia ges, jet lag and Loyd Carr. See what warranted of
' See The Statem , sid. See Arts, Page SA.
~1I Li11c iian. DaiI

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 4,2009

michigandaily.com

ICE HOCKEY
Berenson
agrees to
one-year
extension
After 24 years at the helm,
hockey coach agrees to deal
on a one-year, rolling basis
By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
Red Berenson and the Athletic Department
announced yesterday that the longtime Michigan
hockey coach would extend his cootract through
the 2009-2010 season.
Berenson, who played for Michigan from 1960
to 1962 and has coached the
Wolverines since 1984, has a
record of 670-308-68 and is the
seventh all-time winningest
coach in NCAA hockey. Under
Berenson, Michigan has made
the NCAA Tournament for 18
consecutive season, reached
10 Frozen Fours and won the BERENSON
national championship in 1996
and 1998. Berenson's contract
was scheduled to expire after this season.
Rumors have circulated over the years, raising
questions, about whether Berenson, 69, planned
to retire. But the coach said he is ready to remain
behind the bench.
"I'm feeling good and I should be good to go
next year," said Berenson after practice Tuesday.
Berenson said Tuesday he and the Athletic
Department discussed signing a longer contract,
but he decided to sign on a rolling, one-year basis.
See BERENSON, Page 7A

MAX cOLLINS/Daily
Between interviews with reporters and testimony before members of the state House, University President Mary Sue Coleman made her pitch for greater higher education funding from the state.
In Lansing, Coleman makes case
for more hier educationfundS

Along with two other
university presidents,
Coleman testified that
funds bolster economy
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
and KYLE SWANSON
Daily Staff Reporters
LANSING - Testifying before the
Michigan House Appropriations Sub-
committee on Higher Education today,
University President Mary Sue Cole-
man told legislators that continued state
financial support is essential to the Uni-

versity of Michigan's overall mission
and the economy of the state as a whole.
Coleman appeared along with Michi-
gan State University President Lou Anna
Simon and Wayne State University Pres-
ident Jay Noren. The three presidents
stressed the importance of state fund-
ing for higher education, noting that
Michigan has fallen behind other states
in how much it supports its colleges and
universities. Each year the three presi-,
dents testify together representing the
University Research Corridor, which is
a partnership of Michigan's three larg-
est research universities.
In discussing the pivotal role higher
education plays in improving the state's
overall economic health, Coleman said-

the University of Michigan is contrib-
uting through students, faculty and last
year's decision to purchase Pfizer Inc's
Ann Arbor facilities.
Coleman said the University encour-
ages entrepreneurship in students-
and faculty, and that these ventures
strengthen the school and the state.
"We want to encourage and reward
professors who move inventions and
innovations into the market place,"
Coleman said.
She cited the NanoBio Corporation as
an example of a business resulting from
this focus on research. NanoBio was
founded by James Baker, a professor of
internal medicine and biomedical engi-
neering at the University. In the three

years since its founding, the biopharma-
ceutical company has secured a total of
$80 million in venture capital.
Coleman said financial investments
received from private backers suggests a
confidence in the company that is prom-
ising
"There are alot of people who believe
in this company, and believe that it's
going to have breakthrough treatments
in the future," she said.
Coleman said the University's Decem-
ber announcement that it would pur-
chase the former Pfizer Inc. campus near
North Campus will allow the University
to broaden its contributions to research
and further stimulate business.
See COLEMAN, Page 7A


New tobacco tax has local
smoke shop owners worried

POST-GAME CONFRONTATION
Kampfer's dad won't face charges

In legislation, taxes
raised on tobacco to
help fund children's
health care
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
Starting on Apr. 1, tobacco users
across the country will be faced
with a significant increase in the
price of tobacco products. The fed-
eral tax hike has some local smoke
shop owners worried about the
strain this legislation could have on
their businesses.
The tax increases were included
in the Children's Health Insur-
ance Program Reauthorization Act
signed into lawbyPresident Barack
Obama on Feb. 4. The revenue gen-
eratedfromthe actwill help finance
health care for millions of children
in low-income households. The
new program is an expansion of the
State Children's Health Insurance
Program (SCHIP).
The law will have the greatest
impact on the price of loose ciga-
rette tobacco, which is used for
hand-rolled cigarettes. The previ-
ous tax rate for loose tobacco was
$1.10 per pound. But, after Apr. 1
that rate will increase to $24.78 per
S pound.
At Smokah Hookah on South
UniversityAvenue, loose rollingand
hookah tobacco comprise approxi-
mately a quarter of sales, according
to shop employee Amal Awar. The
store also sells large numbers of

Prosecutor: Lack of
evidence the reason
to drop charges
By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor
The father of University hockey
player Steve Kampfer will not face
criminal charges for physically
confronting a Michigan State Uni-
versity player.last month, officials
said yesterday.
Steve Hiller, chief deputy assis-
tant prosecutor for Washtenaw
County, said there is not enough
evidence for the case, and it is not

likely a jury would convict Bruce
Kampfer.
Hiller also said that the victim
"expressed the desire that there
be no prosecution."
On Jan. 24, Bruce Kampfer
allegedly assaulted MSU hockey
player Corey Tropp in the visitor's
locker room after a home game.
Bruce Kampfer was issued a
trespass order and escorted from
the building. He has since been
banned from most University of
Michigan buildings.
Minutes before the game
ended, Tropp and another player
on the MSU hockey team attacked
Kampfer's son. As Steve Kamp-
fer lay motionless on the ice after

being hit from behind, Tropp
slashed him in the head and the
neck with his stick, a move that, at
the time, MSU hockey head coach
Rick Comley called "cheap" and
"uncalled for."
His son was hospitalized as a
precaution because of previous
head and neck injuries from an
off-ice incident that occurred in
October.
Shortly after the locker room
incident, the Central Collegiate
Hockey Association announced
the implementation of increased
security measures at Yost Ice
Arena. Both of the MSU hockey
players involved in the incident
also decided to leave the team.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
New MSA proposal aimed at giving
voice to students' tuition concerns

New federal legislation will raise the taxes assessed on the purchase of loose tobacco.

rolling papers, which will be taxed
more heavily under the new law.
"It will definitely drop sales sig-
nificantly, no question about it," she
said.
Despite these concerns of sales
declines, an informational pam-
phlet from the United States Sur-
geon General's office makes the
argument that tobacco's addictive

qualities cannot be easily over-
come.
"Tobacco dependence is a
chronic disease that often requires
repeated intervention and multiple
attempts to quit," the pamphlet
reads. "Effective treatments exist,
however, that can significantly
increase rates of long term absti-
See TOBACCO, Page 7A

Discussion comes
in the wake of
Granholm's request
for freeze tuition
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly presented a resolution last
night that aims to gauge students'
opinions of tuition and understand
how different tuition rates would

affect them.
The resolution calls for a survey
to be sent in MSA's next campus-
wide e-mail to the student body,
the results of which will be pre-
sented to the Michigan House
Appropriations Subcommittee on
Higher Education. It was authored
by LSA Reps. Timothy Bekkers
and John Oltean and Business
Rep. Alex Serwer.
The confidential survey, which
asks questions about access to
higher education in the state of
Michigan, can be found at tinyurl.
com/stopthehike. The Univer-

sity's current students and recent
graduates are encouraged to take
the survey.
The survey asks questions like
how important tuition is to indi-
viduals and how current financial
situations will impact individual
future education plans. It also
asks for opinions about whether
tuition should increase, decrease
or stay about the same.
Oltean said acquiring survey
results will help encourage stu-
dents to become more involved in
protesting tuition hikes.
See MSA, Page 7A


WEATHER HI.46
TOMORROW L 40

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news emichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
This day in Michigan sports history.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S...............
Vol CXIX, No 103 OPINION ..........
as09 The Michigan Daily ARTS................
michiaondoilyscom AT .

.............2A CLASSIFIEDS.,............6A
............ 4 A SPO RTS ............... A..............8A
...,..........5A THE STATEM ENT........ .... .

9.

1


2A - Wednesday, March 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A A &IM A

)W DOES THE ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT DETERMINE SEA
A team huddle

Clhe Ifidhigan DAMl
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandailycam

WAITING IN VAIN

When Athletic Director Bill
Martin announced that patrons
would see a drop in football sea-
son ticket prices this year, he cited
the tough economy as the reason.
However, more goes into deter-
mining season ticket prices than
just the economic climate.
Associate Athletic Director for
TicketingandMarketing,MartyBod-
nar, said athletic department officials
meet every year to weigh various fac-
tors in orderto come up with the right
price for seasontickets.
"Before the season starts for
the respective sports we just kind
of huddle up amongst ourselves
internally," he said. "We consider
anticipated demand, the past his-
tory of the ticket prices, what our
peers or competitors charge, spe-
cifically the Big Ten, the state of
the economy and the state of the
program that we're making the

decision for."
BodnarsaidtheAthleticD
ment has always offered s
tickets for sports that studen
more familiar with like fo
men's basketball and hocke
this season was the second s
department officials sold s
tickets for Olympic sports lik
leyball, wrestling and gymna
"We just wanted to start
that, we felt it was some
we hadn't done in the pas
we wanted to start offerini
to our fans who had done
sports," he said.
Bodnar added that the
baseball and softball faci
which opened last season,
motivated department off
to start offering season tick
those sports.
"We had opened up new
ties for baseball and softba

season and with opening newt
epart- facilities we decided it would be a
eason nice touch," he said.a
its are But the Athletic Department
otball, sometimes gets generous. Sea-
y, but son tickets for Olympic sports,
eason baseball and softball are free for
eason students. And this season, the
e vol- Athletic Department even offered
astics. free tickets for men's basketball
doing games.
thing "We had excess inventory and
t and we just wanted to expose as many w
g that students to Michigan basketball
those as possible," he said.
But Bodnar added that students
new shouldn't get used to having a free
lities, seat at a men's basketball game.
also "We don't necessarily antici-
ficials pate doing that, but we'll evaluate
ets to going into the next seasons," he
said. "Our product, our team on Cars produced a
facili- the court, is much improved." facturing Plant si
11 last - JILLIANBERMAN sales inthe Unit(
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Performance Talk on body
by leading image
guitarist WHAT: Assistant profes-
en ftxna ~tAa

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Lettersto the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
SportsSection
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

OfficeursSu~n.-Ths1a,...-2.m.'
enemihignliy.cae
cerrecies@xiindaiy.cee
tothedailygnichigandiy.com
photo@michigandaiy~eee
artspagegeicigadaiy.cee

sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classifiedemichigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES I
Flood damages Video games
South Quad dock stolen from res
WHERE: South Quadrangle hall room


Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 10:15
a.m.ay
WHAT: A flood in the dock
area caused whter damage,
University Police reported. An
outside contractor was brought
in to clean up the water for
$2,000, but there was no per-
manent damage.

WHERE: Couzens Residence
Hall
WHEN: Monday at about3:25
p.m.
WHAT: Five Xbox games were
stolen from a student's room,
University Police reported. The
suspect is an acquaintance
and the incident is under inves-
tigation.

Marijuana found Leafblower
in storage closet lifted

WHAT: An acoustic guitar
performance by performing
artist Monte Montgomery.
Montgomery was featured in
2004's Guitar Player maga-
zine's list of the top 50 guitar-
ists of all time.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
Maintaining
Earth lecture
WHAT: Robert Chen from
Columbia University will
give a talk on keepingthe
Earth a habitable planet for
future generations.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Second floor, Hall
of Evolution

sor or women's stua es ana
political science, Anna Kirk-
land, will give a lecture on
social acceptance and biases
toward body weight.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Room 100, Harlan
Hatcher Graduate Library
History of wine
exhibition
WHAT: An exhibitionon
the history of American
wine making featuring
books and other artifacts.
WHO: Arts at Michigan
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHERE: William Clements
Library
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

America's prison popula-
tion has increased dramati-
cally over the past quarter
century, CNN News reported.
The United States has 5 per-
cent of the world's population
but 25 percent of the world's
prison inmates, setting a
record number.
Jeff Marks, one of the
composers of the Broad-
way musical Avenue Q,
in a University alum.
FOR MORE WORK FROM UNIVERSITY
WRITERS, SEETHESTATEMENT
A -year-old boy in Man-
atee County, Florida acci-
dently shot himself in the
foot trying to prove the safety
of the gun to his friend, the
Tampa Bay News reported. He
was taken to the hospital and
treated for non-life threaten-
ing injuries.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmilOVitZManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:JillianBerman,Trevor Catero, LindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, BenjaminS. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoller, Kyle Swanson
RobertSoave EditorialPageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCRITEEDIT IALPAGE EDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTA NT EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTnS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Da n Feldman, Chri
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alx Prosperi, 5Colt5Rosenweig
DavidWatnitk MningrtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,AndrewLapin,DaveReap,BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR5PHOTOEDITORS:Said Alsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrian,SamWolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
lessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopyChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboer DisplayAdvertisingsalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Christie Phillips
RyanBusinski classifiedsalesManager
MarinsaGerber OnlieSales Manager
Ben English Production DesignManager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichigan1Daly0SSN0745-967)ispublishedMondaythroughFridayduringthefallandwi'ter
termsby studentsattheUniversityo Michigan.One copy is avaiablefreeof chargeto all ea ers.
Additionacopiesmaybepickedupattheaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalltermstartingin
Septembervia U.S.mailare$110WinrteermJxanuary through Aprl)is$115,yearlong(september
through Aprilis $195.University affiliates are subject to a reedc subscription rate.On-campus
subertisforfall termrer5 si s eprepaid.TieMichiganoaiyisamemberof

0

WHERE: South Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about11:15
a.m.
WHAT: Suspected marijuana
was in a storage closet on the
ground floor of the building,
Universify Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Fletcher carport, 201
Fletcher street
WHEN: Monday at about 8:45
a.m.
WHAT: A leafblower was
stolen from a University pick-
up truck, parked in the back
of the parking lot, University
Police reported.


0

[

Renowned. Respected.
And really close to home.

6
I

Oakland University offers more than 100 prestigious graduate programs in the hottest fields,
including master's degrees and short-term certificates so you can:
Stand out from colleagues
Increase your career options
Quickly retool your credentials
Plus research shows those with master's degrees enjoy higher pay, increased employee
benefits, and a better work/life balance than their peers without this credential.*
Convenient locations in Oakland and Macomb counties,
and flexible payment options make earning a
graduate degree easier than you think.
*"Your Big Payday," by AI Fanter published in Yahoo! Education2008,
based on a 1998 study by the Institute of Higher Education Polity
Get more information
or apply online at
www.oakland.edu/gograd
or call (248) 370-3167.
Master of'
Oaksand
UNIVERSITY ________________________

4

6

I


'

l


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 4, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Granholm focuses
on green jobs
Gov. Jennifer Granholm is
pushing hard this week to plug
Michigan's flagging economy into
alternative energy.
The Democratic governor was
in Washington, D.C., yesterday for
a climate change symposium led by
former British Prime Minister Tony
Blair. Experts at the event focused
on adding jobs through U.S. climate
change policies.
A wind energy conference was
held in Detroit yesterday and will
continue today.
And Thursday, Granholm will
speak at a University of Michigan
conference about low-carbon man-
ufacturing in the Midwest. Senior
executives from Ford, Whirlpool
and advanced battery companies
also plan to speak at the event held
in partnership with the Royal Dan-
ish Embassy.
Granholm praised Denmark for
focusing on the renewable energy
industry to lower its unemployment
rate. She plans to sign an agreement
with Denmark's climate and energy
minister to work together to create
a "low-carbon economy."
CLEARWATER, Fla.
Coast guard ends
search for missing
NFL players
Families of two NFL players and
a third man lost for three days in
rough, chilly Gulf of Mexico waters
held out hope that rescuers would
find them alive somewhere off the
Florida coast.
After scouring about 24,000
square miles of ocean, the Coast
Guard at sundown yesterday
stopped looking for Oakland Raid-
ers linebacker Marquis Cooper,
free-agent defensive lineman Corey
Smith, who played with the Detroit
Lions last season, and former South
Florida player William Bleakley.
Bleakley's father said he thought
the Coast Guard did everything
it could and that his expectations
lowered after only one survivor
was found Monday, nearlytwo days
after the four friends were knocked
out of their capsized 21-foot boat.
"I think they were not to be
found," Robert Bleakley said.
Hopes were raised when crews
found Bleakley's former South
Florida teammate, 24-year-old Nick
Schuyler, who managed to stay with
the boat after it overturned Satur-
day evening.
WAYZATA, Minn.
TCF plans to give
a fed money back
TCF Financial Corp. plans to
return more than $361 million it
received from the federal govern-
ment four months ago, saying "the
rules have definitely changed"
since it accepted the money.
The bank holding company,
which has operations in Michigan
and six other states, has asked per-
mission from federal regulators
to return the money it received

in November under the Troubled
Asset Relief Program.
TCF Chairman and Chief Execu-
tive Officer Bill Cooper says public
perception now views banks that
took TARP money as having done
so out of weakness, and says par-
ticipation in TARP has put TCF at
a competitive disadvantage.
Wayzata (wy-ZET'-uh), Minn.-
based TCFhas assetsof$16.7billion
and offices in Minnesota, Colorado,
Arizona, Illinois, Colorado, Wis-
. consin and Indiana.
ZAMZAM CAMP, Sudan
Darfur camps fill as
fighting continues
The tall 14-year-old's parents
were killed when government sol-
diers swept into his hometown in
Darfur to chase out rebels. Then
Arab militias went after the survi-
vors. That's when the teenager fled
atop a truck piled with mattresses
and pots.
Mohammed Bahreddine arrived
at this refugee camp last week after
a two-day journey, joining more
than 26,000 people from the region
around the town of Muhajeria who
:have flooded into the crowded
camp in recent weeks.
"It's one of the largest single
ftights of refugees in the past year
ip Darfur - a sign how civilians
are bearing the brunt of a war that
entered its seventh year in February.
At least 10,000 more people from
the Muhajeria area are expected at
7amzam soon, camp leaders say.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

U.S. auto sales
near historic
lows in Feb.

GERALD HERBERT/AP
President Barack Obama arrives to deliver remarks at the Interior Department in Washington, Tuesday, March 3, 2009.
. "
Top Obama officials
defend new tax hi~kes

Sales for the Detroit
Three down 48
percent from 2008
DETROIT (AP) - Offers of huge
rebates and tempting low-interest
loans weren't enough to entice car
buyers out of their bunkers in this
economic crisis, causing U.S. auto
sales in February to hover near
historic lows.
General Motors' sales tumbled
53 percent from a year earlier,
while Ford's U.S. sales fell 48 per-
cent and Chrysler's dropped 44
percent. The major Japanese auto-
makers fared only slightly better.
Overall auto sales were down 41
percent from February 2008, but
up 5 percentfrom January, accord-
ing to Autodata Corp. and Ward's
AutoInfoBank. January marked
the industry's worst monthly per-
formance since December 1981.
The increase was a good sign,
but it's far less than the usual 14
percent sales bump from January
to February, and it doesn't neces-
sarily mean sales have hit the bot-
tom, said Jesse Toprak, executive
director of industry analysis for
the auto Web site Edmunds.com.
"It does mean that there's some
life out there," Toprak said.
Things are so bad that GM,
which marked its worst February
sales since 1967, is considering a
program to let buyers keep their
cars for a time without making
payments if they lose their jobs.
The huge stock market decline
helped push down sales, said.
Mark LaNeve, GM's North Ameri-
can vice president of sales, servic-
es and marketing. The Dow Jones
industrial average ended the
month atits lowest level in nearly
12 years.
"People are seeing, tracking
their investments going down 3, 4,
5 percent a day or a week," LaNeve
said. "That doesn't put you in a
mood to go out and splurge on a
new vehicle."
Autornakersold698. i 0 A cars

and trucks last month, and there's
little they can do to spur sales until
the economy recovers, Toprak said.
"You can spend money on mar-
keting or incentives. That's all you
can do," he said. "Neither is hav-
ing a big impact on sales. That tells
us it's really consumer confidence
and the general negative state of
the economy overall causing con-
sumers to postpone making pur-
chase decisions."
According to one figure closely
watched by the industry, Febru-
ary's annualized sales rate was
the lowest in more than 27 years,
dropping to 9.1 million vehicles.
That figure makes adjustments for
seasonal sales fluctuations.
Toyota Motor Corp.'s sales fell
40 percent. The global auto sales
leader was forced to seek aid from
the Japanese government Tues-
day for its finance arm.
Automakers and analysts have
been predicting sales will rebound
in the second half of this year, but
they are becoming less certain.
As recently as January, they were
predicting that U.S. sales this year
would total around 11.5 million
vehicles, but as the economy has
worsened, they have lopped off a
million or more sales from their
estimates.
The incentive GM is consider-
ing would be similar to Hyundai
Motor Co.'s "Assurance" program,
which helped it buck the double-
digit sales decline with only a
2 percent drop last month. The
South Korean company's program
allows buyers to return a vehicle
within a year if they can't make
the payments due to a misfortune
such as job loss or disability.
LaNeve said a GM plan might
be more useful to reassure buyers.
"We're not crazy about the
Hyundai program because all it
really does is keep your credit
from getting wrecked," he said
Tuesday. "You lose your job, you
have to turn your car in. If you
lose your job, you need your car,
right? How are you going to get a
new i?"

RE
ne
will
WAS
dent Br
taxes o
house
opposit
sional I
Democ
"I we
ly affec
ble or g
D-N.Y.,
ing Ho'
mittee,
high-in
deduct
tions ar
Reps
dent's p
tries th
amount
for all
exceed
cut for
extend
"The

epublicans say es taxes on every American, and
does so during a recession," said
Mly created fees Rep. Dave Camp of Michigan, the
top Republican on the Ways and
exceed tax cuts Means Committee.
Treasury Secretary Timothy Gei-
for workers thner argued that the Obama pro-
posal would reduce taxes for most
HINGTON (AP) -- Presi- Americans. Any increases, he said,
arack Obama's call to raise wouldn't occur until 2011, when the
n high earners and green- economy is "safely into recovery."
gas polluters met fierce Geithner said Obama's plan
ion Tuesday from congres- would cut income taxes for 95 per-
Republicans and also a few cent of families and 97 percent of
rats. small businesses. Raising taxes
ould never want to adverse- on couples that make more than
t anything that is charita- $250,000 would make the tax
ood," Rep. Charles Rangel, system more equitable, restoring
chairman of the tax-writ- the balance that existed before
use Ways and Means Com- a series of tax cuts were enacted
said of Obama's call to limit under former President George W.
come taxpayers' itemized Bush, he said.
ions for charitable dona- "This budget targets tax relief.
nd mortgage interest. to families that have lost ground
ublicans said the presi- the past eight years," Geithner
plan txrchargefeestoindus- said.
sat spew greenhouse gases Geithner and White House
ts to a stealthy tax increase Budget Director Peter Orszag
Americans that will far testified at separate congressio-
the new $400 annual tax nal hearings yesterday, giving
workers that he wants to lawmakers their first opportu-
beyond 2010. nity to publicly question admin-
president'sbudgetincreas- istration officials about Obama's

spending plan.
Questioning was pretty much
along party lines. Democrats for
the most part praised Obama's
proposal.
"It is making the tax code more
fair," Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., told
Geithner.
But the Treasury secretary
acknowledged that consumers
could face higher electric bills
because Obama would impose
fees on greenhouse gas producers,
including power plants that burn
fossil fuels, by auctioning off car-
bon pollution permits. The goal is
to reduce the emissions blamed for
global warming while raisinga pro-
jected $646 billion over 10 years.
"Now, if people don't change
how they use energy, then they
will face higher costs for energy,"
Geihne nida

Pakistan: Gunmen
attack cricket team,
6 killed, 7 wounded

Brazen attack was
similar to Mumbai
attacks last year
LAHORE, Pakistan (AP) - A
team of heavily armed gunmen,
some traveling in rickshaws,
ambushed Sri Lanka's nation-
al cricket team yesterday as it
arrived for a match, killing six
police guards and wounding
seven players. The brazen attack
heightened fears that Pakistan is
becoming increasingly unstable.
The assault bore striking simi-
larities to last year's three-day
hostage drama in the Indian
financial capital of Mumbai.
Working in pairs, the attackers
in Lahore carried walkie-talk-
ies and backpacks stuffed with
water, dried fruit and other high-
energy food - a sign they antici-
pated a protracted siege and may
have been planning to take the
players hostage.
The bus sped through the
ambush, but the gunmen's prepa-
rations indicated they may been
planning to hijack the vehicle,
Interior Ministry chief Rehman
Malik told The Associated Press.
None of the gunmen were killed
and all apparently escaped into
this teeming eastern city.
Even though the bus was pep-
pered with 25 bullet holes, none
of the cricket players were killed.
The attack was among the high-
est-profile terrorist strikes on a
sports team since the 1972 Munich
Olympics, when Palestian mili-
tants killed 11 Israeli athletes.
In addition, by targeting not
only a major Pakistani city but
also the country's most popu-
lar sport, the attack was sure to
resonate throughout the region,
where cricket has been an obses-

sion since it was introduced by the
British during the colonial era.
In targeting the sport, the
gunmen were certain to draw
international attention to the
government's inability to provide
basic security as it battles mili-
tants linked to al-Qaida and the
Taliban and faces accusations
that it is harboring terrorists.
The attack ended Pakistan's
hopes of hosting international
cricket teams - or any high pro-
file sports events - for months, if
not years. Even before yesterday,
most cricket squads chose not
to tour the country for security
reasons. India and Australia had
canceled tours, and New Zealand
announced Tuesday it was call-
ing of its December tour.
Besides the six police officers,
a driver of a vehicle in the con-
voy was also killed, officials said.
Seven Sri Lankan players, a Paki-
stani umpire and a coach from
Britain were wounded, none with
life-threatening injuries.
Malik did not speculate on the
identity of the attackers, but said
Pakistan was "in a state of war"
and vowed to "flush out all these
terrorists from this country."
Pakistan has a web of Islamist
militant networks, some with
links to al-Qaida and the Taliban,
which have staged other high-
profile strikes in a bid to destabi-
lize the government and punish
it for its support of the U.S.-led
invasion of Afghanistan.
The convoyctransporting the Sri
Lankan team and cricket officials
was surrounded by police vehicles
at the front, rear and side, but
traveled the same route each day
of the five-day test match against
Pakistan's national team, accord-
ing to Malik. The attack occurred
on the third day of play justbefore
9 a.m.

We can help!

Advising appesintments availahle same day.
Call 764-6460 for more information.
Open Monday nights in March for additional assistance
The Career Center
Lniverstyi o ,r m san rDi vsionofrStudentAffairs


4A - Wednesday, March 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

74C e WC4,&Dan+aily

ROSE JAFFE

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Poor procedure
'U' needs to provide a valid reason for dropping practice
or years, students in the University Medical School's
Advanced Trauma Life Support course operated on live
dogs to train for surgery. But after coming under heavy
criticism last month, the University of Michigan Health System
declared it would end the practice. In the statement announcing
its decision, UMHS mentioned that other viable options exist to
prepare students for trauma situations. Considering these other
options, UMHS's decision to put an end to a controversial and
possibly unethical practice may seem warranted. But if it only
stopped the practice to quell the public outcry, it wasn't acting
for the right reasons. The University needs to provide a sensible
rationale for decisions like this one because simply altering its
practices without proper explanation isn't sufficient.

US ECONOMY
I
/I

0
0
0

Zac Efron in space

The decision to stop using live dogs for
surgical training came after the Physician's
Committee on Responsible Medicine - a
non-profit organization that promotes eth-
ical medical research - filed a complaint
with the U.S. Department of Agriculture
criticizing the practice. In the complaint,
PCRM suggested that Dr. Richard Bur-
ney, the professor who teaches a Advanced
Trauma Life Support course, misled the
University in order to use the live animals.
Citing reccomendations from the Health
System's Graduate Medical Education
Committee, UMHS announced an end to
the practice last Thursday. In place of the
dogs, the course will now use advanced
technology like the TraumaMan System,
an anatomical human mannequin used to
simulate real surgery.
But the recent decision to turn to tech-
nology like TraumaMan may be based
more on a desire to avoid a public relations
nightmare than a solid opinion about how
medical training should be performed. If
the University allowed the use of dogs for
surgery practice in the first .place, there
should have been a compelling reason for
why this was the best practice given. Now
that the practice is being discontinued, an
equally valid reason should be given.
Instead, the statement announcing the
decision was vague, even elusive, concern-

ing the University's reasoning. The state-
ment merely said, "The decision comes from
a recommendation by the Health System's
Graduate Medical Education Committee
after a review of simulators that can be
used to train medical professionals in trau-
ma procedures." UMHS has elected not to
explain the logic behind the decision.
This statement doesn't shed much light
on UMHS's reasoning. What concerned
individuals expect from the University is
clarity, not just a quick fix. The statement
doesn't say that the review showed that the
simulators are a better option than operat-
ing on live animals. And it doesn't give a
reason why live dogs were used in surgical
training in the first place. Instead, the state-
ment avoids the ethical concerns by danc-
ing around the issue and begs the question
of whether this practice was eliminated
simply because of the negative publicity.
The longerthe University avoids explain-
ing its reasoning behind first adopting and
then banning the practice encourages the
perception that the termination of the
practice was just a move to put an end to
the controversy. That's not a good enough
reason to make any decision, let alone one
that concerns training the people who may
one day save lives. The University should
take a firm stance behind its programs,
controversial or otherwise.

t is a well-known fact that many
people, and cats, are unhappy.
For instance, there are many
pessimistic people
who will see a glass
that is half full and '
declare, "I hate
glasses."
And now, as we
resume our educa-
tion, many people
say, "I can't believe -
spring break is over, WILL
I hate school andG
wish I were some- GRUNDLER
where else," in a
huffy tone, looking
very huffy.
Imagine my surprise, then, when
I pitched to my fellow peers my alien
movie idea - a film that is virtually all
about the desire to be somewhere else
- and they hated it.
One unhappy person disliked it so
much that he ripped up my drawing
of the aliens I had doodled on a nap-
kin. Can you imagine if someone had
ripped up J.K. Rowling's napkin about
Harry Potter? I can't. Well, she would
have most likely gotten another one
and started over. But what if there
weren't any left? Anyway, the point is I
forgot how to draw the aliens, and the
new ones I drew look stupid.
I've decided, then, that it would be
best to share my movie with a wider,
more diverse audience. With this arti-
cle it could, perhaps, reach tens of peo-
ple. Therefore, what follows is a letter
I sent to Steven Spielberg discussing
my idea:
Dear Mr. Spielberg,
I imagine you receive thousands of
boring movie ideas a month, such as
documentaries about the Jonas Broth-
ers. However, I promise you mine is
interesting and, above all, unique.
I've always enjoyed your movies
because a recurring theme is that of
extraordinary things happening to

rather ordinary characters - I believe
that this is a powerful theme. In your
film E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial, for
example, there's nothing very special
about E.T., but then he befriends the
little boy who owns a flying bike, and a
flying bike is quite extraordinary. But
I'm sure you already know this.
My idea for a movie came to me last
summer when I worked in a grocery
store. One night I came home, exhaust-
ed, and my cat bit me! For no reason,
you understand. It's well known that
cats are naturally unhappy. I cursed
at her and threw her outside into the
night, but then I felt guilty and went
out to fetch her. And there, among
the brilliant stars and the Milky Way,
was a mysterious, flashing object that
looked remarkably like an airplanel
It turned out it was an airplane.
But it sparked my imagination - what
if, against all odds, an ordinary per-
son, played by Zac Efron, had a close
encounter with a UFO? One that left
him obsessed with UFOs and a strange
geological formation where UFOs
landed? So obsessed that he ignored
his cat, which bites a lot, and said UFO
abducted it (the cat, you understand)?
(Thiswouldgroundtheaudience;there
is emotional tension that, although the
story concerns aliens, adds a distinct
sense of humanity to the production,
because humanity doesn't especially
enjoy cats and would like to see them
abducted.)
The main plot of the film, then,.
is Zac's desire to see the UFO once
more and visit the geological forma-
tion where it lands (which turns out
to be Mt. Rushmore), as well as rescue
his cat and repair their relationship.
Here's the twist: The aliens turn out
to be peaceful. How many aliens por-
trayed in films, with the exception of
Chewbacca and Keanu Reeves, turn
out to be friendly? Here's the second
twist: The aliens communicate via
musical signals. Not the traditional

squeaks or grunts or river dancing, but
musical notes.
And then, the third and final twist:
although Zac is reunited with his cat
when he travels to Mt. Rushmore to
see the UFO, he chooses to enter the
UFO and leave Earth. And then the
audience realizes it was what he had
wanted the whole movie. He didn't
wantto have an ordinary job and be an
ordinary person - he wanted to be an
alien ambassador, which pays better.
He wanted to see the universe. And
In theaters near
you, if Spielberg
gets back to me.
his cat is okay with his decision. At the
very end, when Zac is holding the cat
before he leaves, it understands some-
how, and maybe it could lick his nose.
That's all I've got so far, but I would
appreciate your advice.
Regards,
Will
I have yet to hear back from him,
but he is extremely busy. I hope he's
not one of those pessimistic people,
though, to whom I've tried to tell my
idea. They listen for less than thirty
seconds before muttering how cold
Michigan is, utterly missing myoentire
message: if Zac can escape his situa-
tion and become an ambassador of the
universe, why can't they escape theirs?
But instead of transferring to the Uni-
versity of Miami, I imagine most of the
people I talked to will continue to stay
in Michigan.
And I will not be dedicating my
movie to them.
- Will Grundler can be reached
at sailgull@umich.eds.

0

0

I
I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Society has a responsibility and cultivation of these resources is a moral
and necessary goal.
to protect the environment Matthew Brunner
LSA senior
TO THE DAILY:
Adam Gaglio's recent condemnation of envi- Environmentalism is based
ronmentalism (The perils of environmentalism,
03/03/2009) was, ironically, a waste of paper on humanistic principles
and ink. To expand: Gaglio believes that the
environmentalism movement is predicated on
the notion that nature should remain wholly TO THE DAILY:
untouched by mankind and pristine. He frames In Adam Gaglio's recent viewpoint (The per-
the issue as a zero-sum game between human ils of environmentalism, 03/03/2009), he stated
welfare and environmental health, and seems that the green movement is working towards
to think that environmentalism would con- "the destruction of civilization" and "a return to
demn any despoiling of the environment to the Stone Age." As a member of the movement,
extract natural resources. I can say that neither myself nor any of my col-
While there are certainly "live in a tree, leagues are preaching the return to a cave-dwell-
poop in a bucket" environmentalists out there, ing, hunting and gathering existence! Of course,
the mainstream environmentalist movement Gaglio's point was that of retrogression - that
is not about the supremacy of unblemished . environmentalists seek to hinder the advance-
nature over human needs. In fact, the major- ment of mankind. In actuality, we are seeking
ity of environmental causes are now framed just the opposite.
in terms of increasing human welfare, in two What many individuals are asking for is
distinct ways. sustainable energy sources, increased energy
First, environmental regulations help ensure efficiency, new green job opportunities and inno-
that primary goods are not squandered through vative technologies for a competitive market. Is
inefficient machinery, that clean air and water this not human advancement at its best? Why
are preserved, and that environmental toxins must we envision progress as "drilling for oil in
do not rise to levels which could damage the Alaska" or "mining tar sands in Canada"? Why
ecosystem (upon which we depend). Thus, must we develop toward a future of externalities
there is an immediate benefit to humanity from where we pollute unconcernedly, waste uninhib-
environmental policy. itedly and destroy irresponsibly? We must move
The second consideration, which Gaglio forward, but not along that path.
mocks in his opening paragraph, is the pres- At the very core of his argument, Gaglio made
ervation of resources for future generations. a fundamental error. Environmentalism is not
Overzealous consumption of natural resources "anti-mankind." Rather, it seeks to preserve
and the generation of pollution by our genera- mankind by providing a means to sustain our
tion will negatively affect the welfare of subse- existence on this planet. How can this be inter-
quent generations. Although the moral primacy preted as a disregard for human life? It's because
of human needs is the central thesis of Gaglio's of environmentalism's intrinsic compulsion to
argument, his concern for human well-being is improve human condition that politicians such
focused wholly on the current generation. Such as former Vice President Al Gore and President
logic is contradictory, as it states that future Obama embrace itso dearly.
humans have no claim to resources, which is a It's not a surprise to me to see viewpoints such
decidedly anti-human sentiment. as Gaglio's. The term "environmentalism" is mis-
Environmentalism, in its current manifes- leading and unfortunately seems to turn away
tation, is about using resources efficiently and those who don't share a passion for the outdoors.
cleanly. The world is not, as Gaglio portrays it, In reality, this movement is composed of individ-
a bipolar conflict between humans and nature uals who desire the sustainability of health, equi-
and environmentalism is not a concerted effort ty, and a peaceful coexistence onthis Earth. It is a
to "return to the Stone Age." Rather, environ- concern for the long-term and is motivated by the
mentalism recognizes that humans are directly mostbasic instinct of humankind: survival.
dependent on the biodiversity, natural resourc-
es and cleanliness of our surroundings for our Margo Ludmer
continued survival, and that the preservation LSA junior

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus, the Daily would
like students to voice their opinions on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.
KATE BARUT, JASON BATES AND KEN SRDJAK VIEWPOINT
Defending workers ights

Before spring break, the University's President's Advi-
sory Committee on Labor Standards and Human Rights
recommended to President Mary Sue Coleman that we end
our licensing contract with apparel-maker Russell Corpo-
ration. The recommendation came after workers' rights
abuses surfaced at Russell's plant in Honduras called Jer-
zees de Honduras - particularly in response to the glar-
ing "cut-and-run" tactic used at this factory, where over
1800 workers had been amidst collective bargaining nego-
tiations. During negotiations with the union on its first
contract, Russell closed the factory, leaving the workers,
mostly women, without a means to support their families
- a blatant violation of our University Code of Conduct for
Licensees. In light of this, we appreciate the committee's
decision to respect the Code of Conduct and recommend
endingthe contract, but we also wish to emphasize thatthe
context of this decision is indicative of a vastly insufficient
process for ensuring widespread global protection of work-
ers' rights.
Even an obvious case of malfeasance like this took half
a year before action was taken, given that the committee
meets only once a month. Further, while other universities
cut contracts in response to Russell's anti-union activity
last year in another Honduran plant, Jerzees de Choloma,
the University of Michigan did not. Nor did we act when
the New Era Cap Company sent top executives (includ-
ing a "fair" labor association board member) to Alabama
to intimidate and illegally fire activists struggling for a
living wage and equal opportunity, in what the NAACP
ultimately called "a disgraceful and discriminatory situa-
tion." Nor did we take action two years ago in a situation of
striking resemblance to the current Russell case when con-
tractors for licensees like Nike were pressured to "cut-and-
run" when workers demanded a livable wage and dignity
through union contract negotiation at the BJ&B factory in
the Dominican Republic.
These are the cases that have come to light thanks to the
efforts of the Workers' Rights Consortium. But they also
call attention to the need for oversight for the overwhelm-
ing 4,782 factory job-sites currently sourced by University
of Michigan logo licensees.
Reassuringly, the most recent meeting of the commit-
tee produced a discussion of several stipulations that Rus-
sell must meet if it ever wants a contract with us again.
These include additional recommendations that can create
momentum toward a just solution for the Honduran work-

ers who are still unemployed and likely blacklisted despite
this historic string of university business decisions. These
indicators are still being drafted, but they will likely include
that Russell must step up protections regarding freedom
of association, respect collective bargaining agreements,
strengthen language in company policies protecting worli-
ers and not open new factories without a tangibly positive
collective bargaining atmosphere.
These are laudable goals, but the facts maintain that the
status quo global system lacks the means of full compliance
with these dreams. The only way to ensure that our code
of conduct is followed is to institute a program in which
we ally with other universities to get our apparel made'in
a more focused number of factories that require more su-
tainable contractrelationships. This way, our marketpower
can be concentrated to effect real change.
This program exists in the living document of the Desig-
nated Suppliers Program, a program tobe undertakenby the
WRC that would require university apparel be made only in
factories paying a living wage and have worker represen-
tation and other vital protections. The Designated Suppli-
ers Program cannot be launched until enough universities
have signed on to support a working group set up to fashion
university market power and introduce this revolutionary
program in the global apparel industry.
To silence critics of this ambitious and innovative pro-
gram, the WRC is working with clothing manufacturer and
University licensee Knights Apparel to enactthe provisions
of the DSP on a single company scale. The pilot program
will show the industry and universities that the principles
of the DSP can fulfill our moral imperative while remain-
ing economically viable. Thankfully, the committee has
appeared supportive of including provisions to encourage
independent university bookstores and shops to replace
outgoing Russell stock with Knights Apparel, who would
source new orders in deference to workers' rights atthe for-
merly forsaken BJ&B factory in the Dominican Republic.
We encourage supporters of the DSP to tell shop manag-
ers and owners carrying University logo apparel that they
would like to see Knights Apparel products on the shelves
because it is currently the only major brand that has been
produced in a system designed for human dignity over
exploitation.
Kate Barut, Jason Bates and Ken Srdjak are members
of Students Organizing for Labor and Economic Equaliy.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 4, 2009 - 5A

Trail of Dead rises
on 'Century of Self'

Animated war: still pretty bad.
*Waltzing with perfection
Ari Folman triumphs with own memories of what happened during the Regardless of personal politics, any compas-
Sabra and Shatila massacre. sionate individual who sees this film will still be
an animated documentary Perhaps Folman is only fabricating his haunted by the final frames long after the cred-
memory loss to propel the story, but perhaps it its roll, and will form an instant bond with the
that transcends reality doesn't matter. With its combination of Flash IDF soldiers who bore witness to the tragedy
animation and 3D technology, "Waltz" does for firsthand.
By ANDREW LAPIN animated films what Art Spiegelman's "Maus" Today, many claim the IDF was nothing but
Daily Film Editor did for graphic novels. It's a bold declaration of a group of inhuman monsters to take no action
- the untapped cultural significance offered by a against the Lebanese militants during the mas-
Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon, as explored serious work done in the genre. sacre. But the film doesn't allow us to think one
in Israeli writer-director Ari Folman's phenom- There is a stark originality in the way that way or the other: In an early scene, a group of
enal documentary "Waltz with Bashir," was by "Waltz with Bashir" has essentially perfected soldiers encounters a militant boy with an RPG
many accounts a disaster. The a new genre of filmmaking: animated docu- launcher. The boy, a preteen, shoots their tank
goal of the Israeli Defense ***** mentary. Previous stabs at the technique, like and kills those inside, provoking the soldiers to
Forces was to wipe out the Brett Morgen's "Chicago 10," were more tech- open fire and kill him. Anyone who says there
violent Islamic militant fac- Waltz with nical experiments than fully realized films. is a logical approach to this series of events is
tions that thrived among the The transcendent brilliance of "Waltz" is that a liar. Robotic detachment is the only response
civilians of Beirut and other the animation is a means to an end, not the end that allows the IDF to keep its grip on sanity.
major Lebanese cities, but the At the itself. The postmodern structure recreates Leb- Though judging by the dreams the film's inter-
operation spiraled out of con- Michigan anon in the heat of battle, as filtered through the viewees are still haunted with today, it may be
trol following an unpredict- Sony minds of college-aged men. Their dreams, aspi- a very lax grip.
able series of events. rations and raging hormones mix freely into the "Waltz" is more than just a war film. It coolly
Lebanon's beloved presi- saga of violence and destruction. These are men deconstructs the personal and the politicaluntil
dent-elect Bashir Gemayel was assassinated by a who have grown up in a land of constant con- there is nothing left: no meaning, no motivation,
Syrian radical, and, as a response, furious Leba- flict, told to fire weapons at innocent civilians no silver lining to the cloud of destruction. Fol-
nese militiamen invaded the Sabra and Shatila because the enemies hide among them. They man breaks the Arab-Israeli conflict away from
refugee camps to murder hundreds of innocent can no longer see reality as they once knew it, the media's torrent of buzzwords and finds the
Palestinian refugees. Israeli soldiers guarding and neither can the audience. emotional truth that can only be told through
the internment camps made no effort to stop the one soldier pretended he was viewing every- the surrealism of animation. The IDF turned
killings, prompting worldwide outrage. thing through a camera, convincing himself a blind eye on the Sabra and Shatila massacre
"Waltz With Bashir" may be an animated that the dead bodies he saw were part of a movie - an injustice that will forever haunt Folman
film, but it tackles the subject with utmost sin- instead of the results of his own actions (much and all the film's interviewees. But recollection
cerity. Using real interviews with former IDF like how the distance between the audience and can be cathartic, and in sharing all their stories
soldiers as his narrative thread, Folman - him- the screen in a movie theater absolves viewers with the world, the makers of"Waltz" may have
self one of the Israeli soldiers who stood guard of any emotions projected by the film). In the achieved a rare artistic miracle.
over the refugee camps - recreates actual movie's closing minutes, Folman subverts the Their stories, their pain and their nightmares
events from the war alongside surreal dream commpon desire to filter information by suddenly are now ours as well, and out of the darkness
sequences in his attempts to piece together his presenting viewers with harsh, brutal reality. can shine a new hope for peace.

By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
Cymbals crash hysterically, gui-
tars shriek as if
strummed by a vio-
lent mental patient
with rhythm, ...And You
snares snap like
crushed limbs, Will KfoW
ragged vocals bel- Us by the
low in and just Trail of Dead
barely hold it all
together - such is The Century
the nature of Tex- of Self
as's ...And You Will Jtice
Know Us by the
Trail of Dead.
Formed over a decade ago, Trail
of Dead has harnessed this anar-
chy to deliver album after album
of unmatched ferocity. Balancing
the mania with a softer side replete
with piano balladry and mid-tempo
romps, the band has enjoyed a com-
fortable degree of success, perhaps
culminating with 2002's highly cel-
ebrated (bordering on worshiped)
Source Tags t Codes.
With their subsequent albums,
Trail of Dead hasn't come close to
matching the greatness displayed
on Source Tags. Worlds Apart and So
Divided were both dogged by unre-
alized ambition, and it seemed the
band was barreling down a slippery
slope to mediocrity. The Century of
Self is still no Source Tags, but it's
the group's strongest effort since
and proves they are still a relevant
force in the realm of rock music.
Never minimalists, the band is
true to form here, delivering an
album that abounds with drama
and energy. Each song is written on
a grand scale, resulting in 13 mini-
epics ranging from hyper-aggres-
sive to lilting. Even the 50-second
instrumental "An August Theme"
invokes images of a "Lord of the
Rings"-type battle sequence.
After the triumphantintro "Giants
Causeway," feedback explodes into
the punk-inspired chaos of "Far
Pavilions." With this and the next
track, "Isis Unveiled," Trail of Dead
gets back to the raw intensity that's

been missing from their work since
Source Tags. Lead singer Conrad
Keely'svoice howls and strains while
drums are banged unmercifully -
the band is at its unrestrained best.
The crushing, chanting breakdown
in "Isis," a highlight of the record,
gradually dissolves into a small hiss
and then suddenly bursts again into
a hailstorm of noise.
"Halcyon Days" stirs up some
more racket, but its lack of momen-
tum makes it too tedious to make
much of an impact. The band even-
tually brings things down a notch,
if only briefly, with "Bells of Cre-
ation." The song twists and turns
over a repeating piano chord as gui-
tar stabs shower the steady backbeat
with distortion, making it one of the
more memorable tracks.
Chapped-ass
and baroque.
The second half of the record
sees the band expanding its artis-
tic scope, but sags in terms of ener-
gy and quality (except for "Fields
of Coal," which sounds like a sea
shanty written by the Sex Pistols).
"Ascending" and "Insatiable (One)"
are overwrought and lack the inspi-
ration with which the rest of the
album buzzes. "Pictures of an Only
Child" relies on a climactic chorus
that's just a bit too flat and half-
hearted to get off the ground. The
sense that the band is simply going
through the motions plagues the
album.
The Century of Self is filled with
Trail of Dead's characteristic
chapped-ass energy and baroque
sensationalism. It's the best thing
they've done in several years. But
with the bar having been set excep-
tionally high with Source Tags, the
new album is simply too unfocused
and scattershot to deliver the band
from the gigantic shadow of its
previous glory. They remain in the
shade for now.



6A - Wednesday, March 4, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6

*****PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today.. .734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREEL
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL '09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
I Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now to get these
special rates.
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments** 
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609

Wison~hire
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEW
APARTMENTS
WIlTH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT?
( pscalc 5 bedroom
a partments@ )1I
Cburcb! Thegare9
newig constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 b dt
apartments, w/th a/
tMe atecstanigreatst
amenit/es, liLe a
wauher and trger in
unit!

coupon Torevery new Touum::
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,.
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.cor
University
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, updated, w/
prkg., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
4 BDRM APT. avail, fall 09. 2 prkg
spaces avail, on-vit .Indry. $2450 +
dec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4 ELEVEN LOFTS - win FREE
HOGUSING for a year. - Just tour our
model at 400 E.Washington (@1/ Divi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter. Call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, Idry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison.
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwltitemanagement.com
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $2800/mo. 734-320-1026.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3000 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3595 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
C A1 on -965_7.

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush ivaon and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + lndry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
rApartments Available!

lb.iMAgp
t
'4bead and
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
WWW.annarbOrapa tments. net

i

***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
**AVAIL. FALL '09. 3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Internet!
$400 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
Don't miss out on the Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.corn
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2240;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.

or visi us at
1700 Geddes AVe.
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms#
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Homne) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campusgwilsonwhitemanagement.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengpcomcast.net
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
5788-$949/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213.
MAY LEASESAVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$400 signing bonus on all 2 bedrooms
+ free internet
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
MAY ,LEASES- STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdnt.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
OPPENHEIMER PROPERTIES
still has houses and large apts. for rent
for Fall 09. Offering $500-$1000 sign-
ing bonus for available properties!
4 Bedroom
616 Brookwood. $2700 + util.
1903 Hill St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. incl.
506 W Williams. 2 bath. $2100 + utit.
5 Bedroom
491 Lawrence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2875 + electric.
491 Lawrence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2950 + gas and electric.
6 Bedroom
416 Hamilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
$3500 + util.
126 Hill St. 2 bath. $3100 + util.
1803 Hill St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
All util. paid. May Lease. $3300
203 Koch. 2 bath. $2450 + util.
Please Contact 734-995-5575 or
www.oppenheimerproperties.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 5. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 F. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 5. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
uFree Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
REMODELED 2 BEDROOMS
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet and Heat & Water,
One Parking Space included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
Tower Plaza Condominium
lv#rt&owoervHigrrise Ore bbcfnmr Compus
Call BrianTomsic
734-663-1530
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00,gift cardl tustorg,
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!

4

40

Iwww.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201

4

a

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, March 4, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 70 Day's "will be" 34 Appealsto a 46 Musical
1 Use "colorful" deity Franklin
words DOWN 36 "This will help our 48 Last
5 Disappearing 1 Draculaweapon image" 49 Support beam
word 2 Not careful 38 Los Angeles 50 Actress Milano
9 Shade-loving 3_ Nevada weather surprise 54 Lace up
plant 4 "Let it stand" 39 BIg fan 57 Floor sample
14 Condo, for one 5 In anlunfortunate 40 Food or water, 58 Jib or mizzen
15 Skating gold way e.g. 60 Clutch hitter's
medalist Kulik 6 Suffix with pay 41 Utility bill details stat
16 Making more 7Some Van Gogh 42 Snug-bug 61 DOJ enforcer
guns and less works connector 62 Fine wine word
butter? 8 Look relaxed 45 Massage 64 Jamaican music
17 Cajole when you're
19 Ideal, as potting nervous, e.g. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
soil 9 Arrive at through S A T U P BRATS A K C
20 Sequel title words strenuous effort' E L Z A L I0M0I T N A H
21 Mariners as an
23 Bargain clothes agreement C L A I M J U M P E R I T O
binabbr. 10 Oklahoma tribe P O R E S A C M E S
24 Hailed vehicle 11 Rakish CARS EAT A Y E A Y E
26 Rink surface 12 Prof's aides A B O A R D PAR C E L
27 Motrmouth's 3 7-Down, e.g. R I B S C E S T A H E F
"gf" 1 is OD3Aress Cannon 22 Bandage brand EO
32 Hard-o-accept 25Jessica ofr"7th M E A A R 0 N A U N A
consequence, Heaven" T U B M A N O F F S E T
metaphorically 28 Lotion ingredient O N S A L E A I R B E D S
35 Manicurist, at 29 Three-part T I T L E W A L L A
times sandwich E V A S M A L L S C R E E N
37Like ... 3 dirn R E C A O R T A A I S L E
31 Dity jkelfeature 33 He shared
42 Aconcaguaisits spaghettwith I N K W O M A N S M O K E
highest peak Lady xwordeditor@aot~com 0310309

a

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day prior0to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for details * Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 8.50 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Pent
070 - Sublet

a

43 Substantial 1 2
44 Fox's conclusion,
in an Aesop fable 10
47 Genesis creator
51 Cobbler's tool 7
52 Wilder's"
Town" 20
53'"_ &the 2
Women": 2000
Gere film no
55 Zip
56 Some brick
houses
59 Hang on the line as
61 Delivered a line an
63 They help
distinguishthe 44
gtnningsuo 17-,
32-, 3- and 4- 51
Across
65 Walk all over
66 Walk all over s1 0
67 Rages
68 Frenzy m
9Word spoken
with a hand on 0W
one's forehead,
maybe By Dr
(c)2009

t 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 16
18 19
21 22
2 25 26 27 28 29
31 32 33 34
35 36 37
!8 39 4i
43
d6 48 d7 46 d9 50
52 53 54 55
56 57 58 59 60
f 63 64
66 67
69 70
m Gagliardo OWO"9
19 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

3 lines 12.90
4lines 1720
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only stand
TMID for failure to publish an
shal be lmited to publshing
wil be responsible for classi
Rates: Alchanges shown
consecutive rate if requeste
Advertisers may cancel an a
been pubshed, Refusal: A
resale of tickets at more tha
accepting advertising.

25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60
lard abbreviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
advertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
fied advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
on the open rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
d and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originaly schleud endingdate. Refunds:
id before publication deadline, but no refund w be given unless the ad has not yet
4 ads aresubject to editing and approval We do nottpublish advertisements for
n face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of ma order items prior to

C
C

090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Chld Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal

I
I


1t

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily corn
enate votes in droves to keep
earmarks in new spending bill

Wednesday, March 4, 2009 - 7A

In state capital,
Coleman talks
higher education
and the economy

Sen. John McCain
attempted to strip
8,500 earmarks out
of legislation
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
Senate voted overwhelmingly to
preserve thousands of earmarks in
a $410 billion spending bill on yes-
terday, brushing aside Sen. John
McCain's claim that President
Barack Obama and Congress are
merely conducting business as usual
in a time of economic hardship.
McCain's attempt to strip out an
estimated 8,500 earmarks failed on
a vote of 63-32. The Arizona sena-
tor's proposal also would have cut
roughly $32 billion from the mea-
sure and kept spendingat lastyear's
levels in several federal agencies.
Last year's Republican presi-
dential candidate said both he and
Obama pledged during the cam-
paign to "stop business as usual in
Washington," and he quoted the
president as having said he would
o line by line to make sure money
was spent wisely.
The White House has said that
Qbama intends to sign the legisla-
tion, casting it as leftover business
from 2008. Spokesman Robert
Gibbs pledged on Monday the White
House will issue new guidelines
covering earmarks for future bills.
McCain's proposal drew the
support of 30 Republicans and
two Democrats, and the outcome
reflected the enduring value of ear-
TOBACCO
From Page 1A
nence."
Proponents of the legislation
point to this as a reason that tobac-
co sales won't suffer greatly from
the heavier taxes.
Despite tobacco's addictive
nature, Chuck Ghawi, the owner
of Maison-Edwards Tobacconist
in Nickels Arcade, is preparing for
a downturn in sales as a result of
the tax. Ghawi's shop deals largely
in the sale of loose tobacco, rolling
accessories and cigars.
"I can't see how it wouldn't have
an impact, especially duringareces-
sion," said owner Chuck Ghawi.
Ghawi added that sales numbers
have already been down over the
past months. He said many people
have reduced or eliminated their
BERENSON
From Page 1A
Future decisions, Berenson
said, will be based on his health
and ability to keep Michigan a
top hockey program.
"We talked about it. The
de artmenthas beenreallysup-
portive and flexible," Berenson
said. "From my standpoint, I
didn't want to guarantee any-
thing. I'm the kind of person
that if I say I'm going to do it, I
try and live up to it. But I don't
want to live up to something
that might not be working and
might not be fair to me or to the
team or program. If we go at a
ear at a time, I'm good with
that."
Players were excited at the
prospect of their coach return-

log for a 26th season.
- "That's great news, for (the
sophomore) class and the
juniors. That makes me pretty
happy," said sophomore Aaron
Palushaj, who learned, of the
extension while speaking to
-eporters. "It's great to know
that. He probably could have
waited until after the season
was done but he did it now, so I
think it is going to give us a little
bit of momentum heading into
the playoffs as well."
Michigan is currently the
second seed in the CCHA and
after a first-round bye.
The hockey team will play its
quarterfinal matchup in Yost
Ice Arena against a winner
of this weekend's first-round
matchups.
Berenson said, the Athletic
Department has not figured out
w ho will take over for him when
he decides to retire.
Both assistant coaches Mel
Pearson and Billy Powers were
noted by Berenson to be even-
tual candidates for the job.
"We've had so many ADs
really over the years that (find-
ing a replacement) hasn't been
a priority for them," Berenson
said. "But we're getting closer
to a time when it's best for the
team and best for me not to be
around every day."

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), left, and Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), right, take part ina news conference on Capitc
ington, Tuesday, March 3, 2009.

marks to lawmakers. While .polls
routinely show these pet projects
to be unpopular, local governments
and constituents often covet them.
Themaneuveringcameonlegisla-
tion to assure continued funding for.
several federal agencies past March
6. At $410 billion, the bill represents
an 8 percent increase over last year's
spending levels, more than double
the rate of inflation.
Republicans made two other
attempts during the day to reduce
spending in the bill, but failed both
times.
Sen. Dan Inouye, D-Hawaii,

chairman of the Senate Appropria-
tions Committee, said McCain's
call to hold spending level with a
year ago "doesn't account for infla-
tion." As an example, he said some
programs would have to be cut if
federal workers were to receive a
pay raise.
The House passed the legislation
last week, and Democratic lead-
ers are working to clear it without
changes so the president can sign it
byFriday.
While Republican opposition
in the House focused more on the
bill's overall spending, McCain and

allies turned the Senate spotlight
squarely on earmarks.
"Howdoes anyonejustifysomeof
these earmarks: $1.7 million for pig
odor research in Iowa; $2 million
'for the promotion ofastronomy'
in Hawaii; $6.6 million for termite
research in New Orleans; $2.1 mil-
lion for the Center for Grape Genet-
ics in New York," he said.
He also noted the legislation
includes 14 earmarks requested by
lawmakers for projects sought by
PMA Group, a lobbying company
at the center of a federal corruption
investigation.

From Page 1A
"Over time, this expansion of
research facilities will allow us to
bring in millions more dollars to
the state and will lead to the addi-
tion of at least 2,000 high-paying
jobs for people who are working
within the research enterprise,"
she said. "This is going to be one of
the largest expansions of the Uni-
versity of Michigan in more than
half a century."
When asked what percentage
change in state fundingshe would
consider acceptable for next year,
Coleman said she didn't have a
specific percentage in mind.
"We've lost so much over the
last seven years that any increase
would be welcome," she said.
According to a Coleman's
presentation, Michigan cur-
rently ranks 49th among states
in higher education allocation
increases, besting only South
Carolina in that statistic. Michi-
gan is also one of only four states
that spends more money on its
prison system than on higher
education.
Coleman stressed that in 1997
Michigan and North Carolina
MSA
From Page 1A
"I think having this informa-
tion and having a broader range
of students working on it, we
can get kind of a student move-
ment going for a tuition freeze at
the grassroots level," he said. "I
think that will make a big differ-
ence."
The survey results will also
help make the University more
aware of how big of a concern
tuition is for the student body,
Oltean said.
"We want to get people fired
up about this issue and we want
to get people out there letting
the University know that they
care about this issue and that it's
important to them," he said.
The resolution also expressed
support for, Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm's proposed tuition freeze,

both funded higher education at
about the same levels. However,
she said that since then North
Carolina has increased funding
for higher education by approxi-
mately $2 billion, while Michigan
has only increased funding by
about $300 million.
Coleman indicated that an
increase in state funding would
provide more flexibility for the
University when considering next
year's tuition rates.
"Of course the increase of what
the state can provide, there's a
direct relationship with what we
have to charge for tuition," she
said. "So the more the state can
give us, the lesswe have to depend
on tuition increases."
Coleman said she and other
University administrators would
be open to working with the gov-
ernor, legislators and others in
brainstorming ways to effectively
use money to help both the Uni-
versity and the state.
Granholm submitted her bud-
get proposal to the Michigan
legislature on February 12. The
proposal is now being consid-
ered and revised by the Michigan
House and Senate.
though only if the state's funding
ofpublicuniversitiesremains con-
stant for the upcoming academic
year. Restrictions in the federal
stimulus bill recently passed by
Congress require the state to
maintain 2008 funding levels in
order to receive stimulus money.
Bekkers said he thinks keep-
ing tuition affordable is an inte-
gral part of maintaining a diverse
atmosphere at the University.
"I think a tuition freeze or at
least looking into making col-
lege more affordable is abso-
lutely necessary to maintaining
this diverse community at the
school and making sure that
education is actually attain-
able," he said.
This resolution is scheduled to
be voted on at next week's MSA
meeting.
- Sarah Zawacki
contributed to this story.


tobacco consumption to cut down
on personal spending.
Rolling cigarettes instead of
buying manufactured ones has tra-
ditionally been a way for budget-
conscious smokers to stretch their
dollars. A pound of loose tobacco
typically sells for between $15 and
$25 and yields roughly two full car-
tons of cigarettes, while the aver-
age cost of a carton of cigarettes
- which contains 10packs of ciga-
rettes - retails for upwards of $50
each.
The tax increase is designed to
be a moneymaker for the federal
government's newly expanded chil-
dren's health care program.
Rep. JohnDingell (D-Ann Arbor)
an advocate for the expansion of
SCHIP and a co-sponsor of the
original bill passed in 1997, praised
the additional funding.
"High health care costs are

straining already-strapped families
nationwide. Nowhere is this truer
than in my home state of Michigan,
where the unemployment rate tops
10 percent," Dingellwrote inastate-
ment released shortly after the act
was signed into law. "With families
struggling to save for retirement,
save for college, and pay their mort-
gage, this legislation will help state
governments provide health care to
children who otherwise would be
left behind."
Despitethecontroversialnatureof
the tobacco tax increase, the bill was
passed with some bipartisan sup-.
port Along with Dingell, freshman
Rep. Mark Schauer (D-Battle Creek)
voted in favor of the bill, which
passed with a vote of 289 -139 in the
U.S. House of Representatives.
Two similar versions of the leg-
islation were passed by the House
over the past several years, but

were subsequently vetoed by Presi-
dent George W. Bush.
"I am pleased that today we will
have a bill to send to the President
to get signed into law," Dingell
wrote. "And this time there will be
no veto pen to stand in the way of
providinghealth coverage to11mil-
lion children."
With the current budget crunch
in Michigan, Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm has also proposed an
increase in the state tobacco tax.
The state currently has a 32 per-
cent tax on the wholesale price of
all tobacco products, except ciga-
rettes, which are taxed $2 per pack.
The proposed increase would dou-
ble the current tax to 64 percent of
the wholesale price.
Although the legislation is cur-
rently being debated in the state
House, it has been widely opposed
by House Republicans.


the michigan daily
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. s
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665- THESIS
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com organizat
996-0
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call WRITIN'
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896. Ph.D. aut
who can h
sertations,
TIlED OF SEARCHING for your
apartment or house? Wilson ;White
Management offers One Stop Shopping " p W
with hundreds of* apartments and
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing
agents are ready to help you the perfect
place to call home on campus. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com MBARTE
tial, Age
WWW.800FULLER.COM training pr
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet ANN A]
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus Gold Star
individual
ment Trair
wwwvarlymorng;emenlcom hand with
in the sta
views wee
Va rsitto rrichter
Management
625 ChuchS. ANN ARt
734668-1100 day morni
2010.scud
knowledge
resume to
Stadios,1,2,& 3 BIedrooms CASHIE1
lsi, oh h otr e Full or pa
FulV frr~ised het.watr.nari ante _.Ap

EDITING- LANGUAGE,
ion, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
566 or writeon@iserv.net
G COACH/EDITOR--I'M a
tor, writer, and psychologist
elp you generate articles, dis-
and theses. 734-678-5512.
ENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
rovided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
,RBOR BASED company,
Financial, is looking to hire
s for our Manager Develop-
ning Program. Work hand-in-
the 91 and #2 loan officers
te. We will be holding inter-
ekly; please submit resumes
r@goldstarfinancial.com
BOR RECONSTRUCTION-
rah seeks teacher for our Sun-
ng religious school for 2009-
demit yr. Esp. with children,
e of Hebrew required. Send
teacherjob@aarecon.org
RS AND SERVERS needed.
rt time. Evening shifts avail-
ly in person after 6pm at
urger. 800 S. State St.
XTRA MONEY. Students
SAP. Earn up $150 per day
mystery shopper. No eperi-
ired. Call 1-800-722-4791.
ISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
Michigan Telefund. On cam-
ible hrs. Students, apply @
mich.edu or 763.4400.
EEPER'S SPORTS
& Pub now hiring talented,
ing individuals for our wait
en staff, and floorman: No
ssary. Apply in person at 310
Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

SUMMER ENGINEERING POSI-
TIONS available: Summer Engineer-
ing Academy (SEA) & Michigan Sci-
ence, Technology Engineering & Math
Academy (MSTEM)!
Learn more about available positions:
Instructors, AcademicFacilitators,Resi-
dential Director, Residential Facilita-
tors, Staff selection process, Program
specifics
Tuesday, March 10, 2009 5:30PM
Location: 1200 EECS
EECS -Electrical Engineering and.
Computer Science Bldg, 1301 Beal Ave
For questions, please contact:
Lucie Howell (734)-647-7124 or
Michele Randolph (734) 647-7120.
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:
Make a difference in the life of a child!
Summer therapy camp for children
with physical disabilities. Located on
shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI.
Positions available for Couselors,
Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts
& Crafts/ Recreation, Nurses, Thera-
pists, Food Service, and Auxiliary.
Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and
love children. June 14 through August
9. Salary, room & board, and experi-
ence of a lifetime provided. Call or
write for application and information.
Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O Box 310
Big Bay, MI 49808, (906)-345-9414,
e-mail BaycliffHC@aol.com. Visit us
at www.bayclifforg
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Snuff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

For Thursday, March 5, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Don't let others dissuade you from
your goals today. It's easy tobe discour-
aged or confused about what you want
for the future - just for today.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Conversations with bosses, parents
and VIPs are subject to misunderstand-
ings and confusion today. Ironically, if
this doesn't happen, quite the opposite
could happen; you could have a mind
meld with others! (Who knew?)
GEMINI-
(May 21 to June 20)
Your appreciation of beauty is height-
ened today. You're also intrigued by
spiritual and mysterious knowledge.
Explore unknown regions and beautiful
places.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
This is not a good day to divide shared
property or decide how certain things are
allocated. You might be too sympathetic,
too generous or even confused.. You
might not have all the facts!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You feel a lot of empathy for a partner
or close friend today, and perhaps the
situation is returned. Nevertheless, it's as
if you have Vaseline on your lens. Be
very careful.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Be extra clear in all your comniuica-
tions at work today. Assume nothing. If
you think something fishy is going on, it
is. All communication is fuzzy today!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a wonderful day for creative
projects. Artists can be particularly pro-,
ductive. Playful activities with children
will be delightfully full of whimsy.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Be cautious in family discussions
today because confusion can arise easily.
Avoid important topics, especially with
parents. Just be sympathetic where sym-
pathy is needed.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Your imagination is heightened today.
Because of this, you might drift off-into
flights of fancy and daydreams and lots
of wool-gathering. No big deal.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Be careful with financial matters
today, because you might not have all
the facts or you might make the wrong
assumption. A lot of confusion is possi-
ble.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb: 18) -
You feel like your antennas are out
there picking up all kinds of messages
from the universe. Today you're a mind
reader! Nevertheless, don't act on these
messages, because they could be unreli-
able! (Definitely.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Daydreams and imaginary conversa-
tions will take up your time today. You
don't feel productive and practical. You
would rather escape somewhere and do
something else.
YOU BORN TODAY You have flair
and style. Many see you as sophisticated,
charming and comfortable in any social
setting. However, you're also very pri-
vate. In the same way, you can be logical
and practical and then suddenly emo-
tionally dramatic! You're a good judge
of others. People want to please you.
This year is full of all kinds of possible
new beginnings. Open any door!
Birthdate of: Penn Jillette, illusion-
ist/comedian; Andy Gibb, singer; Barret
Jackman, hockey player.

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu

able. App
Quickie B
EARN E
neededA
being an
ence requi
FUNDRA
+/Hr. at N
pus, flexit
telefund.u
SCOREK
GRILL 6
hardworki
and kitch
exp. neces
Maynard,,
4,

0 2009 King Features Syndicate,tInc.

MICHIGAN - ARE You Ready To
Walk The Red Carpet on Thursday
March 12, 2009?
www.experiencetheredcarpet.com

, p


a

8A - Wednesday, March 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

a

Injuries ground Blue's seven-footer

Outdoor game would bolster
rich Wolverine tradition

The sight of 100,000-plus
Wolverine fans isn't
rarity in the Big House.
But imagine if those fans were
chanting the now-infamous
"C-ya" chant.
Michigan State has hosted an
outdoor hockey
game and one CHRIS
will happen MESZAROS
next year at
Wisconsin, so On Ice Hockey
why not Michi-
gan?
The University is close to
Hockeytown, home of the Red
Wings, located in a state that
loves hockey and has rabid sup-
port from a loyal fanbase.
"(The athletic department is)
talking about it," Michigan coach
Red Berenson said. "Nothing
will happen before the (football)
stadium is finished in 2010. But
they're definitely talking about it,
with things going in that direc-
tion with these outdoor games."
The Badgers will likely break
the record for attendance at a
hockey game, tentatively set for
Feb. 6, 2010, when they host the,
Wolverines. Michigan State cur-
rently holds the record, jamming
74,544 into Spartan Stadium for
a game against Michigan back in
2001. Camp Randall Stadium in
Madison seats 80,321.
If Wisconsin breaks the
record, and with the Big House
soon to again hold the title of
"largest football stadium in
the country," no one would be
able to break the record should
Michigan fill up its stadium for a
hockey game.
The support from the Michi-
gan hockey team is certainly
there.
"I believe that Michigan peo-
ple will not let anybody else have
their record," Michigan assistant
coach Mel Pearson said. "I think
they will support it to make sure
that we prove that we're the lead-
ers and best, and we will fill-that
place and establish the record."
Michigan coach Red Berenson

said he'd love to coach in an out-
door atmosphere, and sophomore
forward Aaron Palushaj called
the prospect of playing in front
of 110,000 Michigan fans "awe-
some."
Plans wouldn't necessarily
be just Michigan versus some
other college opponent - it could
include the entire hockey com-
munity. Perhaps a Red Wings
game a few hours after the college
game could add to the excitement,
especially against a team like
the Toronto Maple Leafs, which
would draw support from both
Michigan and nearby Canada.
"It's such a neat atmosphere
to play outdoors," Pearson said.
"Hockey started outdoors. It's
a sport meant to be played out-
doors. Getting that many people
into a stadium to watch a hockey
game, just being outdoors, it
would be a great experience for
the players and the fans."
Added Berenson: "Even the
Red Wings brought it up. I was
reading an article in Toronto and
they said, 'Well if they have an
outdoor game, they should have
it at the Big House.' But I think it
will (happen)."
Michigan State became the
first team to hold a hockey game
outside in 2001, followed by the
NHL's Winter Classic, which has
been held annually in Buffalo,
N.Y., Edmonton, Alberta and Chi-
cago, respectively. All four events
sold out.
But each of them had their
own problems. Michigan State
scheduled its game in early Octo-
ber, Nyhich could have been a
major problem had the weather
been warm. In fact, weather
is the most important variable
involved. Should it be unseason-
ably warm, the ice will melt and
compromise game conditions.
But in Buffalo, the snowy
weather and freezing cold con-
ditions required the ice to be
cleaned constantly. Even the ref-
erees' whistles froze.
The Winter Classic in Chicago

this January had terrible sight
lines and the glare of lights on
the ice made it difficult for fans
to see. Similarly, fans at the top of
the Big House will find it nearly
impossible to find the puck.
There are also a slew of logisti-
cal issues surrounding the game,
all of which seem solvable.
For one, the event couldn't be
held until the stadium renovation
is completed in 2010. An outdoor
hockey game would make an
excellent addition to the inaugu-
ral season of the new Michigan
Stadium.
"We'll see," said Berenson
when asked if the game could be
held right after construction is
finished. "But I've supported it
from day one. Any time anyone
asked me would you would like
to have a game at the Big House,
absolutely. But it's about schedul-
ing, it's about the field...with the
field turf now, it is a possibility."
There's also the cost. Pearson
estimated that setup and prepa-
ration for the game would cost
$500,000-$600,000. But if the
Wolverines charge $15 per ticket,
the same price Wisconsin is
charging, and add in concessions,
box seats, merchandise revenue
and possible sponsorships, the
Athletic Department could easily
cover the cost and then some.
But it is yet to be seen whether
these outside games are simply a
fad and will lose their popular-
ity within a few years. The game
takes a substantial investment,
and, without substantial fan sup-
port, might result in a financial
loss.
While the obstacles to holding
,a outdoor winter game require
significant planning and fur-
their research, the tradition and
excitement that would come with
the game make it a worthwhile
endeavor.
"I think it's a no-brainer for
us to try and have one," Pearson
said. "Michigan's a great hockey
state, I think it'd do very well
with one."

By ALEX PROSPERI
Daily Sports Writer
When former NBA player Fred
Hoiberg was at Iowa State in the
early 1990s, he was so popular
that he earned the nickname "The
Mayor" after receiving write-in
votes for the Ames, Iowa maypral
race.
Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje
might want to watch his back,
because Michigan men's basketball
coach John Beilein has someone
with a similar personality as Hoi-
berg.
"He's one of these guys who
could run for mayor of the fresh-
man class or something," said Bei-
lein about freshman Ben Cronin.
"He's easily seen and easily speaks.
Anybody who has met him (knows)
he's a really delightful kid to be
around."
When Beilein says Cronin is
"easily seen," he's not kidding. The
265-pounder is the first 7-footer to
don the maize and blue since Josh
Moore in 2000. He wears size 17
shoes and his 7-foot-5 wingspan
matches that of Yao Ming.
Cronin is big off the court, but
he has yet to make an impact on the
court. And while Michigan's three
other freshmen - Stu Douglass,
Laval Lucas-Perry and Zack Novak
- have accounted for nearly 30
percent of the Wolverines' offense,
Cronin is still waiting for his chance
to show what he can do.
Cronin injured his left hip during
a workout in the spring of his senior
year at Henninger High School in
Syracuse, N.Y. His injury worsened
when he got to Ann Arbor and Beil-
ein redshirted Cronin on Dec.23.
Two weeks after the redshirt
decision, he had surgery to repair a
torn labrum in his left hip - a pro-
cedure with an expected recovery
time of four to six months. For near-
ly one month, Cronin was forced to
use crutches.
"It sucks," Cronin said in the
locker room after the Michigan
State game on Feb. 10. "I don't even
get to hear the huddles anymore. (I
don't) even know what play we're
running. Overall, I'm just kind of
frustrated right now."
But on Feb. 17, Cronin was cleared
to walk on his own. Two days later,

I

4

sAID ALSALAH/Daily
Freshman Ben Cronin was given a redshirt this season in order to have hip surgery.

he was moving around, dribbling
and shooting layups before Michi-
gan hosted Minnesota. Even with a
shirt and tie on, Cronin looked the
happiest he has since getting on
crutches.
Douglass, Cronin's roommate,
seemed just as happy about Cronin's
recovery.
"He's not laying in bed and boss-
ing me around and whatnot," said
Douglass. "I can clean the room a
little bit. I don't have to take the
trash out all the time and be his
caterer."'
Cronin will continue a rehabilita-
tion process so he can be in optimal
game shapeby June.
"Just trying to get all the move-
ment back, start to strengthen my
legs," Cronin said. "I know my left
calf and quads are so much stronger
than my right one already." ,
If all goes well, Cronin will then
have the entire summer and fall to
prepare for the 2009-10season. Bei-
lein said Cronin will spend a lot of
time with strength and condition-
ing coach Mike Curtis to regain

quickness and jumping ability.
"Because of the hip problems,
he didn't go through a lot of the
preseason training," Beilein said.
"And there's some major gut work
involved in preseason training at all
levels of college basketball, includ-
ing here. Those are types of things
that I think will be interesting how
he handles. He will handle them, I
know he will do that. But is he ready
for it? I don't know."
A healthy Cronin would help
Michigan's small lineup, which
currently features just one player
(redshirt junior Zack Gibson) over
6-foot-8. Michigan is so under-
sized that 6-foot point guard C.J.
Lee played the small forward posi-
tion for much of the season. If
Cronin can return from the injury,
he will be an integral part of the
team next season, both on and off
the court.
"He. will have a great attitude,
he's a great kid," Beilein said. "He's
going to be a great leader on this
team. That's our hope because he's
got such a great personality."

I I

Earn your degree faster by taking summer classes at
OAKLAND UNIVERSITY

4
6

If you're spending the summer in the Metro Detroit area, keep moving
toward graduation as a guest student at Oakland University.
You can choose from 1,000 diverse courses in several convenient sessions -
courses that can transfer to your home institution. Check the Michigan Transfer Network
to learn what courses will transfer at www.michigantransfernetwork.org.
Registration begins March 16. Free applications for guest students are available
online at www.oakland.edu/guest.
At OU, you'll find the total college experience - with challenging academics,
Division I athletics and hundreds of student orgs - all for a great value. You'll quickly
see how OU makes an exceptional education available at a truly affordable price.
And remember, at OU, students don't pay any fees. So when you need
transcripts sent to your home institution, you won't pay a thing!

Oakland offers 129 undergraduate degree programs in:
. Arts and Sciences
- Business Administration
" Education and Human Services
" Engineering and Computer Science
" Health Sciences
- Nursing
Important summer dates:
. Summer full session: May 4 - August 15
. Summer I session: May 4 - June 20
. Summer I session: June 29 - August 15

6
I

0

i


---w-

w V

a


0

The Vkcl-,i,-al) Dadv - Vv'odnesdak . Nlarc 1 '009

BAGGAGE
CLAIM
after thirty two hours
of sleepwalking,
removing my belt and shoes
for customs,
the magna wand clicking
a typewriter's symphony
at my crotch,
after the cocoon
of recycled air
and tinfoil-broiled
meals, babies'
exasperated whines
and jet engines'
cabin-pressured hiss
after the many goodbyes
of my hometown like
rust-colored leaves
blowing in the breeze,
and the loving
hurried cut in my mother's
voice as she shoos me
down the gate like
a cicada emerging
from its husk,
I stand here,
no excitement
at my new life
as a polyglot,
no music stuck in my head
besides runway ambient
no taste in my mouth
but half-fermented saliva.
I stand here
and I want two things;
my bags and my bed.
Adventure can go fuck itself.
--Brad Dembs,
LSA senior
WANT TO
DESIGN
FLASH
GRAPHICS?
E-mail
graca@michigandaily.com


,
T..''.
;
3< <=
a

-:
;
g
r '
'
,
_ :
, ~w.
.
_ _ '
-
- - -
.. f_,. . s
t 1
by
4
k '4 ,
l
l
V
.
{
4



w w w w

MggEditoriChie,5xy~rakxx
the ~PhtEdtrSamWolson
Ceerprddsign Agela Chih
Cover ilustation:Laura Garavgia

v

WO

w

w

w


Weneda, arh , 009 -TeMcia*al

Letter from
the editor

Every year around Hopwood
Awards season, students rush a
small room in Angell Hall in a mad
dash to enter their painstakingly
edited and neatly foldered creative
writing portfolios into the contest
before the 12 p.m. deadline.
Every semester, even more stu-
dents endure the anxiety, frustra-
tion and bared emotions of fiction
and poetry workshops across cam-
pus, scribbling criticism in margins
and hoping that their peers won't
be as harsh.
Sometimes, these students
actually go on to publish - Arthur
Miller, Adam Herz ("American
Pie") and Jeff Marx ("Avenue Q"),
for example. More often, they
do not. But they do realize the
opportunity to express themselves
through a time-honored craft - to
delve into depths of their creativ-
ity and, often times, their psyches
that they would never otherwise
explore.
Student prose and poetry can be
rough. It can be off-putting. Non-

sensical. Gratingly ungrammati-
cal. Just way too much information
about a random classmate in your
3 p.m. lecture. But it also holds
an essence of humanity, an inti-
mation of the reason why people
continue to read the literary giants
and then venture to pick up the pen
themselves. Occasionally, a novice
work will display real talent and the
promise of great things to come.
For the annual literature issue
of The Statement, I've compiled
a selection of that last variety -
prose and poetry from students
whose propensity for writing could
very well take them far beyond their
undergraduate creative expres-
sion requirement. Here you'll find
the desperate longing of a young
would-be mother for her miscar-
ried child, a meditation on the fate
of old maids, a poetic send-off to
former Michigan football coach
Lloyd Carr and much more. Enjoy.
-JESSICA VOSGERCHIAN,
MAGAZINE EDITOR

i .
4
ee,
b

NOMINATE
SOMEONE FOR THE
STUDENTS OF THE YEAR
ISSUE
The Statement is soliciting nominations for a special
issue profiling students whose personal achievements
or contributions to campus communities deserve
recognition. Send a brief description of your nominee to
vosgerchian@michigandaily.com.

I HAVE READ WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO DROWN,
and I try not to think of it as my feet edge to the
beginning of the sea, to the beginning of a uni-
verse that offers free will to the most fanatic of
men, connecting me to those I would not know in
any other circumstance. I am prudent; I care too
much. The sea is cold and unwavering, and I dare
not look into its bounds, for it warns against the
selfish acts of men, it forgives only after duty, it
finishes what it starts. Now, Ithink of whether the
mistakes I have made, the women I have kissed
and abandoned, and the illusory restraint that
confines my action would justify my descent into
the water.
I am not unlike the sea, and as my knees feel the
frozen breaths of fish beside me, I call to it, bless-
ing its waves as a priest would bless bread. The
night forsakes most, taking the shells of light bit-
terly to their break, giving me the chance to fault
and turn around. I am wet, now. I am cold, now. I
am alive, now.
Each step is unstable as the wet sand faults
under my soles, the soles of expensive shoes and
the souls of the accidental dead. I wish to know
them, to know melancholy as if Hades was my
home; to replace indifference with the reverence
of death, for life has forgotten my eyes and lips. I
want to believe in God.
Perhaps the night pushed me to this. I prefer
to antagonize over the abstract, for it feels safer.
That my lover had broken my heart or that I could
not sleep did not seem like reasons important
enough to end this existence, and I think of what
the Romans had said, that it is better to be a slave

on earth than to rule in the underworld. Is it not
enough tobe a man, to feel my strong body work-
ing? I cannot overcome the idea of death, andI
crave it each time the dawn approaches. Living is
tiring, and now all I dream of is sleep.
The water sits at my breast. Slowly, as with
things of importance, I bend my head into the
oncoming wave. It is light, and I pretend I can
breathe underwater, as our ancestors did so many
years past. It must feel welcoming, to belong, and
as all the men sat in circles, dying for causes not
yet realized, they must have thought themselves
brave. But I am not brave, no.
I know sadness. The water is not still, but the
waves are not ripe. They break on my body in cou-
plets, and the current pulls me forth, breaking for
seconds at a time, then returning to its cadence,
rhyme, mission. I was taught to survive these situ-
ations. I have no want of that. The sun's weight is
on my brow, pushing, pushing me deeper into my
grave. Or maybe it was not the sun, but her words,
her dismissals, her departures.
It is almost dark. Though my purpose is death,
my body is paralyzed with the fear of sharks, and

I hesitate in my steps, because I do not want to die
in a violent manner, but in one of nature's simplest
designs (perhaps warm and asleep in bed). My
pleas of both death and survival become louder,
cupped in the hiccups of the night. I cannot decide
whether I want to live or die.
Soon each wave hits my mouth, and I swallow
the water when no more can fit. The salt burns,
and I taste regret. I see the unattainable repen-
tance before me, and I imagine my family above
the waves, smiling as if I had never existed. I feel,
but lack power. My back is covered with the bodies
of men lost at sea; I lean back, into the waves that
have passed, and my hair flows out from me, grasp-
ing for the land I left behind. Breathing becomes
difficult, I am so cold, and my chest has the weight
of the entire ocean on its bow. My parents never
warned of the harshness of death, and how it takes
all of you before returning you to an origin, the
place where your body grew, plunged, stretched.
Such conception always comes too late.
My eyes are covered and closed by the water.
I pray as Neptune pulls me out to sea. I want to
live.

STORY BY MEGAN BERKOBIEN, LSA SENIOR


V V V V V

w

v

9

0

-W

8 The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, March 4, 2009

All old maids are mystics,
Knees on hardwood floors;
Dust circling as their bodies descend;
Gumbals on the bottoms of their throats;
Chapped lips opening in hope and recitation
Yit-ga-dal v'yit-ka-dash sh'mei ra-ba
And waiting, parted, for the choral response,
Silence like shallow waves
That crush against their mouths,
Salt water dripping on their tongues.
Bodies become brittle and cold,
Thin glass in a tall copper lamp.
They are objects now,
And always were, thinking back to the blacktop,
The rotted peach kickball,
The broken bottle hopscotch,
The forced letters from the front,
And then the casual expectations from the infirm.
So it makes sense now, that all their objects
Have become people now, and all people
Are spiritually significant, always present,
Never gone.
Each book is a Bible,
Each book is a blond, bug-eyed boy,
Each book is silently loved
Just as all things are silently loved.
Things happen in twos.
Resemblances are unmistakable.
Promises made should not be broken.
Resurrection of the dead.
Truth reveals itself only in dreams
And golden songs hummed sweetly
At the breakfast table while clinging
To a faded green mug.
In the corner, where the peeling walls meet:
What is solitaire but at attempt at tarot and truth?
The future is a way to waste the present,
The past was a waste to all present,
All rise and say Amen.t
by David Kinzer I LSA sophomore

ALL
OL D MAIDS
ARE
4
A B-
LLUSTRATION BY ROSE JAFPE

Poet's Notebook

s
Agh
l
1
i
f
ILLUSTRATION BY ROSE JAFFE

The Dying Season
the leaves deadened
because it's the dying season
and I'm walking on your grandmother
just as you've stood on mine
scanning verdant fields
lost among flat plaques
are we really so afraid
to hide our corpses in the grass
leaves and dirt and drippings from trees
my hand gets cold sweeping past names clean
my feet grow cold walkingover them
- Adriana Rewald,
LSA senior

The Warmest September
Sheits atmtb coswalkhuddesnersherw s andows
In a beat-up Honda, low to the ground, waiting for the light
To go from yellow to red to green.
Yesterday I peeked over her slouching shoulder:
The crisp handwriting: "Honey, are you happy
There?" Today she clasped herthick sealed response
Standing by the side of the post office leaning
From one knee to the other. She licked one
Stamp, debated two: the second poised on the edge
Of her index finger, anxious for moisture.
The leaves grew from green to yellow to red
And I whispered to t hem "It's not something you can
Measure' Their response: a soft crinkling, a harvestnof agreement.
- LauraBeth Winnick,
SSA sophomore



V V w V w w V V


w

W,

w


s




L"

Wednesday. March z4 2009 The Michigan Daily

,

Dusl

*#

a
IL
y .
yq
y
tttt {F
Al .

Iremember being pregnant:the first sharp pain
in my stomach, and then the vomit. I remember
the tip of the pee stick, positive and pink. Most
of all, I remember being alone, living still in the
apartment I rented and driving my first car and
sometimes eating cereal for all three meals. But
withthatpaincameinstinct.Iwantedthattragedy
in my life - the sores of single-motherhood - and.
I wanted it to be secret not out of shame but out
of the fulfillment of the way I'd always thought of
myself as a loner, different, struggling through.
something to prove I could. So I bought the pre-
natal vitamins, told a few people, but only as
few as I could. I poured the liquor in my freezer
down the drain and turned my nose at the deep
smell. The glass bottles satin the recycling bin for
weeks, glowing a little like moonlight gone bad
and shivering when the cat brushed past. I would
have emptied them, but the dumpster outside
was iced in by a bank of snow, and I didn't want
to fall.
The man I'd been with was a neighbor, and
he'd since moved. He'd taken me to dinner once
- Indian food - and he'd walked through the
parking lot with an ice cream cone from the place
down the street a few times, stepping right in
through the open sliding screen door, with cream
dripping between his thumb and forefinger. He'd
licked it off before handing the cone to me. He'd
smiled.
When I found outI was pregnant, he still lived

in the building - I even looked out of the window
to see him loading things into a U-Haul. He
waved, and I waved back.
I remember being pregnant in the winter, the
fear of slipping and not being found, trash piling
in the corner because of it, making a corner of my
apartment smell of old juice. I pulled my shirts
down over the small swell, growing each week,
and I feared people with colds. I'd nearly told my
neighbor, when he'd stopped in all sweaty from
lugging furniture, but hadn't. I'd told myself I
wasn't even sure if I'd keep it, although I knew I
would. I was a little afraid of him, too - he was a
bouncer at the.club, and I'd never dated anyone
like him. I became wary of more things, more
people.
But it wasn't because of him, or ice, or illness. I
was at home, boiling water for pasta when I lost
the baby. I doubled over the steam, sobbing, until
the woman above me heard and came right in.
The cat howled as I did, circling with his mouth
wide open.
My mother was openly relieved. She said it was
God's will, and smiled at Him out of the hospital
window as she said it.
Five months later, I vacuumed the floor for the
first time in ages. Cat hair and dirt from spring
had covered the carpet, and it was summer
now, near when my due date would have been - a
summer baby, healthy, given those three months
of sun to grow and get fat before winter. I'd been

given time off from work, as though I hadn't
miscarried, which almost made it worse. My
doctor gave me a prescription, which I took too
much of. Still, this was a good sign, the vacuuming,-
the best thing I'd done in months. I had started to'w
listen to mymother a little - I didn't make enough,
I wasn't home enough, I wasn't smart enough to
remember to keep syrup of ipecac in the house.
Still, though, I'd wanted it.
The vacuum caught the strings; the landlord w
only put new carpet in every time a different
tenant arrives, and I had lived here for years. I
let the vacuum grumble a little, and suddenly, in
anger, wanted to tear the floor out, pull it out by
its teeth. The vacuum began to smoke - I could
smell it but couldn't see it - a dull electrical singe,
hardly enough to burn this place down.-
When another sob joined my own, I looked up
and my sadness was replaced by joy.
My mother tells me I've gone mad. When she
hears my baby cry over the phone, she thinks I'm
making the sound or that I've stolen the child
from someone. My mother says she's called police
stations, and even though no one in the area
reports a missing child and the Amber Alert stays
quiet under the green god of rain on the Weather
Channel, my mother says she is coming over.
I tell her not to. I say I'T refuse to open the door.
This is my child, born of my flaked skin, my dust,
my messy past, born safely into the womb of my
home.

,
a
r

III fill III III III IIIIU

1111 1111111111111111 11|111111 1111111 1

Written by Megan Cummins I LSA senior Illustration by Laura Garavoglia



