POOL OF TALENT WILL HE
Another Indian film import One NHL GM ta
wows audiences here at home. whether Summ(
U SEE ARTS, PAGE 5 U SEE SP(
i iidian Daily
ONE-IIUNDRED-NINETEEN YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, April 7, 2009

michigandailv.com



REMEMBERING ONE OF OUR BEST
Sidney Fine, a'"U'professor for 53 years, dies

Campus mainstay
passed away at the
age of 88 last week
By DIYA WADHWA
For the Daily
Sidney Fine, a former his-
tory professor at the University
remembered most for his sense of
humor and wit, died last Tuesday
at the age of 88.
Fine passed away at the Heart-
land Healthcare Center in Ann
Arbor. He is survived by his wife
of66 years, Jean, as well as histwo
daughters, Gail Fine and Deborah
Schmidt, and two grandchildren.
A lion of academia, Fine taught
more than 29,000 students,
according to a count he discussed
regularly, including three genera-
tions of the same families during
his 53-year career.
"At 88, there are relatively few
people around who remember
him but he was a giant, not just
academically and intellectually ...
but as one of the greatest teach-
ers in the history of the Univer-
sity," University of Michigan
Hillel Executive Director Michael
Brooks wrote in an e-mail to the
Daily last night. Brooks was a
close friend of Fine's and attended
his funeral.
Even with the number of stu-
dents that Fine taught through-
out his career, he stressed the
importance of keeping up with all
of his students. In an Apr. 4, 2001
article in The Michigan Daily,
Fine expressed his commitment
to every student.
"They know that I enjoy what
I'm doing," he told the Daily at the
time. "I like my students to see me
as ahuman being,not just a person.
talking to them in a classroom."

The faces of students' par-
ents were commonly sprinkled
throughout the lecture halls of
Sidney Fine classes, Brooks wrote
in the e-mail.
"Sidney once told me about a
father who came up to him after
one of his lectures - students fre-
quently brought their parents to
his classes - to personally thank
him for so significantly enriching
the quality of the family's dinner
conversations," Brooks wrote.
Laurence Deitch, a University
regent who attended two classes
with Fine as an undergraduate in
the 1960s, said Fine had a gift for
enlightening his students.
"He was an unbelievably fasci-
nating and compelling lecturer,"
Deitch said. "He just really made
American government, culture and
political institutions come alive. He
was really devoted to his students
and the University. Not only was he
a greatteacher, but a scholar."
His career at the University
began unexceptionally in 1948
when he hired to teach as an
"Instructor in History."
But when he retired in 2001,
Fine had written 39 articles and
published 12 books during his
career. According to the 2001
Daily article, he held the record
for the longest active teaching
career of any professor in the his-
tory of the University.
Fine was always dedicated to
the idea of maintaining a long
career. The Michigan legislature
abolished a law that required
teachers in Michigan to retire
at the age of 70 in response to a
proposal by one of Fine's former
students, who was also a member
of the state legislature. Fine, who
was 70at the time, added his own
signature to the bill and contin-
ued to teach at the University for
another 10 years after the law was

FACULTY REVIEW
M\ed. School
deans oppose
ten ure- refor-m
Officials say change members.
According to an article in the
would hinder University Record in November
2008, the policy changes affect
professors' ability 691 researchers at the University,
301 of whom are in the Medical
to get grants School.
Gyetko said the ability to
By NICOLE ABER compare professors on differ-
Daily StaffReporter ent research tracks - some-
thing that isn't a part of the
Medical School officials upcoming changes - is impor-
expressed their disapproval tant because the Medical
yesterday of recently approved School has such a large faculty
changes to the process of evalu- of 2,200 members.
ating the progress of faculty on "We have three tracks," Gyet-
the University's research track. ko said. "So in order to retain
The officials contend it hinders the quality across the tracks, it's
researchers' ability to get funding a matter of policy in the Medical
and grants. School in which ranks are compa-
At yesterday's Senate Advisory rable across the tracks."
Committee on University Affairs Gyetko and Lukacs said
meeting, Margaret Gyetko, Medi- they also want to give assistant
cal School assistant dean for fac- research professors more oppor-
ulty affairs, and Nicholas Lukacs, tunities to be evaluated for pro-
Medical School assistant dean for motions.
research faculty and pathology In addition, Gyetko and
professor, argued against changes Lukacs said they want to change
to the Medical School's research the assistant research professor
faculty tracks that were approved title because it currently limits
last semester. a person's ability to get research
Thesechanges,settotake effect grants.
this fall, were meant to provide Gyetko explained that the
for more uniform review of fac- current title causes companies
ulty members across disciplines. providing research funding to
They included alterations to the question the institution's com-
titles of certain research faculty, mitment to the faculty member.
new lengths of time allotted for . After Gyetko and Lukacs dis-
review of research professors and approved of the new changes,
changes to the timeframe of the Michael Thouless, SACUA vice
tenure process for those faculty See FACULTY, Page 7

eI
FILE PHOTO/Daily
Sidney Fine taught more than 29,000 students in his 53 years at the University.

abolished.
Fine was born in Cleveland,
Ohio on Oct. 11, 1920. He gradu-
ated from Western Reserve Uni-
versity as class valedictorian in
1942 and went on to obtain his
master's degree from the Univer-
sity of Michigan. He was drafted
to fight in World War II during his
time at the University, but applied
for deferment in order to finish his
degree.
Throughout his career at the

University, Fine received many
awards for teaching. He was the
third recipient ofthe Golden Apple
Award, which Students Honoring
Outstanding University Teaching
awarded him in 1993.
"He is one of the most interest-
ing people I've ever heard speak,"
LSA sophomore Maria Simon told
the Daily in 2001. "You have to
remind yourself to take notes (in,
his class), because you often want
See FINE, Page 7


THE DAILY'S COURSE GUIDE
Classes offerednext fall that caught the eyes of Daily staffers

MIDDLE EAST POLICY
Cole talks new book at event

AMCULT 204 - Themes in American Culture
Spies and Sci-Fi, Coups and Concerts: Cold War Culture
How can this class go wrong? Pop culture meets
American communism fears in a class Joseph McCa- 3
rthy could only dream about. The dalss looks at how
cartoons,films andnovels were affected by the United CREDITS
States's standoff with the Soviet Union. The only draw-
backs? Two in-class midterms, a group project and a
take home final.
ANTHRCUL 446 - Sex and the City: Urban
Geography and Sexual Locations
Witty titles aside, this classi jus interesting. It
examines the impact of space on sexuality. lt discusses
topics including the relationship between urban size .,
and sexual specialization. Who hasn't wondered about CREDITS
that? Parts of the class also focus on red light districts,
prostitution and homosexuality.
* ECON 395 - Topics in Microeconomics and
Microeconomic Policy
Economics in Waste
One man's trash is another's education, apparently.
This one-month long course considers America's waste
problems.In lookingat the "waste-scape,"students CREDITS
will examine how the handling and disposal of our
waste has become costly and highly regulated. Waste
topics rn the gamut fromlitter to incinerators to spent nuclear-
teacor fuel.
DEVELOPING ANN ARBOR

: LING 305- Advertising Rhetoric
Ever wanted to know how tobe as convincing as the
freecreditreport.com guys? Well here'syour chance. In
Linguistics 305, students analyze the way that verbal
and visual advertising messages are consumed in a
cultural context.Now you can finally have that "Mad CREDITS
Men"-themed party you've always wanted. At least
Junior standing required.
a EEB 436 - Woody Plants: Biology and
Identification
The oursedescriptionsays it all: "you will learn to
identify164 trees, shruband vine species." Who can
passsthat up? This "intensive" field- and lecture-based
class includes field trips in the Ann Arbor area. In CREDITS
addition to a variety of other lessons, students will
learn how totidentify plants in their"leafless winter
condition."
PSYCH 359- Psychology of Aging.
Wanttopknnwwhyyournewlyempty-nested parents
won'ttop calling you? The Psychology of Aging 2
focuses on the change inbiology,behaviortand thought
in adulthood. But be careful, as the course guide warns, CREDITS
after the class, "(Students) should have anew appre-
ciation of the changes theyoare likely toexperience as
they get older."
sOURCE: LSA COURSE GUIDE; COMPILED BY DAILISTAFF

History prof. says
Obama has made
situation better
By JOHN A. WEISS JR.
Daily StaffReporter
University of Michigan profes-
sors are making their opinions
heard and putting their expertise
to work for the Obama Adminis-
tration in a variety of ways. A few
University professors have been
named to positions close to the
president. Some share their advice
for the president's agenda through
the lecture circuit and books.
History Prof. Juan Cole is doing

the latter.
Cole spoke last night to a crowd
of about 30 people on many of the
topics included in his new book,
"Engaging the Muslim World." He
talked about a variety of subjects
ranging from the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan to the Israel-Pales-
tine peace process and the Obama
administration's potential to nego-
tiate with Iran.
Cole said he offers strategies in
the book for moving forward from
the past eight years of foreign
policy. He started his speech by
reading from one of the chapters
of the book, which illustrates this
theme.
"Whatever we have been doing
the past eight years, it hasn't

worked," Cole said.
He added that the Bush admin-
istration, and specifically former
Vice President Dick Cheney, have
perpetuated lies that negatively
impacted the world's perception
of the United States and caused
needless bloodshed.
But Cole said he's optimistic the
situation will improve under Pres-
ident Barack Obama's leadership.
"I like President Obama quite a
lot," Cole said. "He's doing what
he can to change the dynamic."
One of the changes Cole cited
was Obama's willingness to nego-
tiate with Iran.
"Obama wants to open Iran just
as Nixon opened China," he said.
See COLE, Page 7

CELEBRATING A BLOWOUT

Council members don't see eye
to eye on building height limits

Man amendments , initiative.
The discussion marked the first
proposed to core reading of the A2D2 zoning ordi-
nance amendments, designed to
area of A2D2 plan increase the population density in
the city's core downtown zones.
By LARA ZADE The issue of height limitations
Daily Staff Reporter for the core downtown zones - one
of the more controversial amend-
During a three-hour discussion ments to the original A2D2 zoning
at last night's City Council Meeting, ordinance changes - was dissected
members reviewed in great detail by council members during the
more changes to the Ann Arbor meeting.
Discovering Downtown (A2D2) As it currently. stands, most of


the Main Street, State Street and
South University Avenue areas are
considered part of the core down-
town zones, or D1. In the first draft
of A2D2, D1 zones had no height
limitation except for the South
University Avenue area, which was
limited to 170 feet.
Council members consider the
South University Avenue area to
be more sensitive to high-rise con-
struction because it is closer to resi-
dential areas.
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7

CLI F REDER/Daily
Michigan State University students celebrate at the Cedar Village Apartment Complex in East Lansing, Mich. after their loss
to the University of North Carolina in the NCAA basketball national championship game last night.


WEATHER HI: 51
TOMORROW LO: 31

GOTA NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ................................ 2 ART S.... .......................5
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail A multimedia piece on the 38th annual Hash Bash Vol. CXIX, No. 124 SU D O K U ........................... 3 CLASS I FI EDS........................6
news@michigandaily.cum and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/VIDEO ©2009TheMichigan Daily OPINION,...............................4 SPORTS..............................8
_'' _.m_.h.g........c.m


2 - Tuesday, April 7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, April 7, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom d

14

clhe MIC41-an aj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA ELAINABUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-a5s
gmaca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com

4

The dream collector

At Kaleidoscope Books & Collectibles,
a dense stack of eclectic books greets cus-
tomers. But after getting beyond the loads
of bound volumes, more notable objects
come into view: a machine that tells the
horoscope of the person standing on it,
Haight-Ashbury Street signs and a wide
array of trinkets and figurines littered
alongthe shelves.
Jeffrey Pickell, a self-proclaimed "jack
of all trades," has been running Kaleido-
scope for 18 years but has been amassing
collectibles since childhood out of what he
calls "sheer necessity."
"My mother was an interior designer.
She used to drag me to antique stores and
antique sales," Pickell said. "In order to
survive, I collectedbaseball cards."
This need soon developed into a hobby,
which now includes everything from mod-
ern first edition novels to vintage handbags.
On a regular day, Pickell drives to work
on his motor scooter, picks out display sale
items and browses through products to
purchase on the Internet. Pickell said the
items he's interested in are heavily vested

in nostalgia.
"I buy things that strike my fancy, that
trigger some kind of memory," Pickell said.
"(People) tendtosanitizememories, soour
pasts are always more gentle."
Pickell, who was born in Brooklyn, has
lived in Ann Arbor since 1981. His wife
works for the University, and his son is a
current student.
"My wife is the practical one," Pickell
said. "I'm the dreamer."
The dreamer was quicklygrounded into
practicality last year, when he discovered
that his projected 42-day moving schedule
to relocate to Fourth Avenue from State
Street would cost more than $80,000.
But with the help of more than 100 vol-
unteers, the number of moving days dwin-
dled to less than two, and the move was a
success.
Kaleidoscope's popularity over the years
has garnered a diverse crowd of customers,
including manybrushes with famed politi-
cians, actors and musicians.
"Hilary Swank came in the other day,"
Pickell said. "She was telling me how to

ride my bike - it needed WD-40 - she
was right."
Musician Patti Smith has been in Kalei-
doscope a couple of times. Beatnik poet
Allen Ginsberg rode in a taxi with Pickell
and signed a picture that still hangs on
the wall of the store. Actor John Hirsch
came in, "dressed to the nines," according
to Pickell and bought $455 worth of chil-
dren's books.
But Pickell said his most memorable
brush with fame was 10 years ago, when
musician Ben Harper came and bought
Dukes of Hazzard memorabilia. Harper
thenoffered Pickellbackstage passestohis
concert at Hill Auditorium.
"I saw Hendrix play," Pickell said.
"(Harper) wasbetter."
Despite his abundance of artifacts, Pick-
ell said he prizes sentimental pieces more
than anything else in his store, including
sports memorabiliaand children'sbooks.
Pickell said his main purpose in running
the store isto interact with his customers.
"I talk to people, I think that's my main
job," Pickell said. "I'd probably save a lot

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

5oie hours: Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2a..
neea@mihigandaiy.vom
coreceions@miehigandaily.con
tothedailypnitigandaiy.com
photo@michigandaly.com

aporsmichigandaily.com
diaplay@michigandaily.com
daaijted@michigandaity.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

4

Jeffery Pickell stands inside his shop.
of money or rent (if Kaleidoscope were)
exclusively online."
Pickell, who calls himself "a character"
and "old curmudgeon," will soon be turn-
ing 60years old.
"As you get older, health deteriorates,"
Pickell said. "But experience increases
- other people's experiences become my
own."
- JASMINE ZHU

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Google banner GPS stolen from French poet Federal Deposit
swiped from unlocked vehicle talks Hughes Library's 125th
Palmer Field WHERE: 2281 Bonisteel WHAT: Nimrod Djan- anniversary
Blvd. grang.efounder of "Agotem."

WHERE: 1239 Kipke Dr.
WHEN: Sunday at about
10:40 a.m.
WHAT: A large banner with
a Google advertisement on it
was stolen from Palmer Field,
University Police reported.
The banner was stolen some-
time between midnight and
8 a.m.
Trespasser found
in League
WHERE: The Michigan
League
WHEN: Sunday at about 8:10
p.m.
WHAT: A subject was issued a
warning for trespassing in the
West Lobby of the League,
University Police reported.
He was escorted from the
building.

DV.
WHEN: Sunday at about
10:30 p.m.
WHAT: A Global Positioning
System valued at about $150
was stolen from an unlocked
vehicle, University Police
reported. The GPS was taken
sometime between 5 p.m. and
10 p.m.

6a r, iuiU nvCL,
a French literary journal,
will give a talk on translat-
ing Langston Hughes into
French.
WHO: The Department of
Comparative Literature
WHEN: Today from noon to
1:00 p.m.
WHERE: Room 2015,
Tisch Hall

WHAT: A plaque presenta-
tion to a variety of honorees
in honor of the 125th anniver-
sary of the Federal Deposit
Library. Congressman John
Dingell has been invited.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Room 100, Harlan
Hatcher Graduate Library

Universityvan .
instnrv of I T .SR iinn roariino

Legendary basketball player
Michael Jordan was elect-
ed to the Basketball Hall
of Fame's class of 2009, The
Associated Press reported.
Olympic athletes David Rob-
inson and John Stockton will
join the five-time NBA MVP in
the Hall of Fame.
An individual under 21
with a .08 or higher blood
alcohol level is considered
aminorinpossesionevenifthey
areseekingmedicalattention or
taking a friend to the hospital.
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4.
3 A 14-year-old Florida
girl who threw a bag of
pretzels at a police ser-
geant is facing felony charges,
the TC Palm reported. Beth
Maynard, who was a patient
at Lawnwood Kegional Medi-
cal Center & Heart Institute,
allegedly threw two shoes at
another police officer.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob Smilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjain S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Kyle Swanson
Robert Suave Editoia agenEditr, soavepmiehigandaily.con
ASSOCIAToEInOALPaEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BranFlahery,RachelV ilde
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman,Chris
ASSSTAT *SORSDITRS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block,oBrandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
tltlf eeder ManagingtPhototEditors
SENR PHO EDITORS:Said Aaah,Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak, RobMigrin,SamWolson
Angela Chihand design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Diaplay Advertising Ss anagr
DISPLAY ADVERTISINGASSOCIATEMANAGERS: Dnielnge
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski classified Sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online SalesManager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceManagers
The Michigan Daly (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Fridayduringthefall and winter
terms by students attheUniversity of Michigan.One copy is avalable free of charge toallreaders.
Addioal copismaybe plickdupaat te Daly'svfjcefor $2.vSubsciptins for fll andwnterter
(SeptbervthouAprl)vaeU.S nalar$0.Ya-roundsubsciptnsFalntSringand
Summer issues) are $22 5.Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The
AssociatedPressand TheAssociatedCollegiate Press.

4

4

runs into pole in
parking lot
WHERE: Lot W-14
WHEN: Sunday at about 8:20
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
that she hit a pole while
parking a University van,
University Police reported.
The van suffered damage on ,
its rear bumper.

I 1110 L Xix y vi %-J * k * X' 1A, ulli11 1 vaU111r5

wine making
WHAT: An exhibit that
chronicles the history of
American wine making,
featuring books and
artifacts.
WHO: Arts at Michigan
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m. to
4:45 p.m.
WHERE:,The William
Clements Library

4

WHAT: University Prof.
Douglas Trevor, who has
been published in "The Paris
Review," "The New England
Review" and other publica-
tions, will give a reading of his
work.
WHO: Department of Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Vandenberg Room,
Michigan League

. FAMILIAR WITH FLASH?
E-MAIL
GRACA@MICHIGANDAILY.COM.
A PICTURE OF
YOUR FUTURE
SUMMER PLACE IN
NYC IS NOW
APPEARING AT
STUDENTHOUSING.ORG/
PICTURE
Clean. Modern. Safe. Bright. See it all.
And then see it disappear if you don't act on it fast.

4
4

THEMBA HADEBE/AP
African National Congress official Gwede Mantashe addressesthe media after the decisionto withdraw charges against its leader.
South African presidential
candidate cleared of charges

4

Q U A LITY S TU DE N TLI VIN G
www.studenthousing.org/picture
800.297.4694


Prosecution drops
corruption charges
against ANC's Zuma
PRETORIA, South Africa (AP) -
Prosecutors dropped their corruption
case yesterday against Jacob Zuma,
clearing the way for him to become
SouthAfrica'snextpresidentbutleav-
ing behind questions that could haunt
the next government.
Zuma, a colorful character and
well-known champion of the poor,
is the presidential candidate for
the governing African National
Congress in April 22 elections. He
is almost certain to win given the
party's dominance.
Hundreds of Zuma supporters
reveled in the streets after prosecu-
tors said they would not pursue -
now or in the future - accusations
Zuma accepted bribes to thwart an
investigation into wrongdoing by
a French arms company involved
in a massive weapons deal in the
late 1990s.But prosecutors said the
withdrawal had nothing to do with
Zuma's guilt or innocence. They
claimed to have a strong case, and
said it was withdrawn because of
prosecutorial misconduct. They
noted that others could file civil

cases, anoptionthatmaybepursued
by opposition parties who decried
yesterday's announcement.
Zumadidnotcommentyesterday,
but scheduled a newsconference for
today in Durban, where he was to
appear in court for the charges tobe
formally dropped.
Reactions to the decision high-
lighted the issues that remain as
the country's fledgling democracy
attempts to move forward.
Gwede Mantashe, the ANC's
secretary general, called Monday's
decision "a victory for the rule of
law, decency and common sense,"
and told reporters that Zuma should
now be seen as free of suspicion.
"Thereareno allegations"against
Zuma, Mantashe said at ANC head-
quarters. "They have been with-
drawn this morning by the people
who laid the charges."
The presidential candidate for
COPE, a recently formed political
party thatbroke away from the ANC,
countered saying prosecutors should
have gone forward with the case.
"We still have not heard about
the merits or the demerits of the
case against Mr. Zuma. The South
African people want to know: Is he
innocent or is he guilty?" COPE's
Mvume Dandala said.
Mokotedi Mpshe, acting direc-

tor of public prosecutions, said
yesterday that key prosecutors had
abused their powers by trying to 4
time the announcement of charg-
es against the 66-year-old former
guerrilla leader to a key ANC con-
ference in late 2007, presumably to
undermine his bid to become party
president.
Zuma won the leadership race
at that conference, and two days
later Mpshe said he had enough
evidence to try Zuma. Yesterday,
Mpshe said he had been unaware
in 2007 of attempts to manipulate
the case.
"An intolerable abuse of process
has occurred which requires discon-
tinuationofthe prosecution," Mpshe
said at a packed news conference that
was broadcast live nationwide.
Mpshe's decision came after
Zuma'slegalteambroughthimtaped
phone conversations between prose-
cutors discussing the announcement
timing. It was unclear how Zuma's
team obtained the recordings, but
Mpshe said prosecutors determined
they were authentic.
Even before yesterday's decision,
the accusations that Zumahad taken
a $55,600 (500,000-rand) bribe to
protect a French arms company had
not appeared to hurt Zuma among
hisbase.

I


' The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Tuesday, A pril 7, 2009 -- 3


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, April 7, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS Obama:
SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA
I Analysts: Rocket
gives North Korea war vvWeei
new bargaining chip T 1 a . T T


North Korea's new rocket launch
gives the communist country
another bargaining chip in negoti-
ations over dismantling its nuclear
weapons program even if the flight
wasn't completely successful, ana-
lysts said Monday.
Even with suspected problems
in separating the second and third
stages, the rocket flew twice as far
as any missile the North previously
launched. That range falls far short
of U.S. territory, but neighbors are
concerned by the expanded reach
of a regime that claims to have
atomic bombs.
President Barack Obama and
other world leaders called Sunday's
launch a provocation that cannot
go unanswered, but the U.N. Secu-
rity Council was so divided it didn't
even issue a preliminary statement
of condemnation.
Diplomats privy to continuing
talks in New York said China, Rus-
sia, Libya and Vietnam voiced con-
cerns about further alienating and
destabilizing North Korea. China,
the North's closest ally, and Rus-
sia hold veto power as permanent
members and could water down
any response.
LANSING, MI
On first day, 101
apply for medical-
marijuana ID card
More than 100 people applied
for Michigan's new medical-mar-
ijuana program by the end of the
registry's first day.
The Michigan Department of
Community Health said in a state-
ment that 85 applications were re-
ceived Monday and 16 came in over
the weekend for a total of 101.
Cards will be issued to those
approved for the registry within
three weeks.
Michigan voters legalized medi-
cal marijuana lastyear. Rules for the
program went into effect Saturday.
Patients can apply for a state-is-
sued 1D card to protect them from ar-
rest for growing and using marijuana
to treat pain and other symptoms
stemming from ailments such as can-
cer and multiple sclerosis. A doctor's
recommendation is required.
CHICAGO
Study finds 1 in 5
4-year-olds obese
A striking new study says almost
linS American4-year-oldsisobese,
and the rate is alarmingly higher
among American Indian children,
with nearly a third of them obese.
Researchers were surprised tosee
differences by race at so early an age.
Overall, more than half a million
4-year-olds are obesethe study sug-
gests. Obesity is more common in
Hispanic and black youngsters, too,
but the disparity is most startling
in American Indians, whose rate is
almost double that of whites.
The lead author said that rate is
worrisome among childrensoyoung,
even in a population at higher risk for
obesity because of other health prob-
lems and economic disadvantages.
"The magnitude of these differ-
ences was larger than we expected,
and it is surprising to see differ-
ences by racial groups present so
early in childhood," said Sarah
Anderson, an Ohio State University
public health researcher. She con-

ducted the research with Temple
University's Dr. Robert Whitaker.
GRAND RAPIDS, MI
iPod repairman
guilty of fraud
A Michigan man has pleaded
guilty to fraud and money launder-
ing in a scheme to acquire more
than 9,000 replacement iPod Shuf-
fle music players.
Twenty-three-year-old Nicho-
las Woodhams of the Kalamazoo
area appeared in federal court in
Grand Rapids on Monday, less than
a month after charges were filed.
Woodhams had an iPod repair
shop and knew that owners could
get a replacement if their Shuffle
had problems. He guessed valid
1 serial numbers and entered them
into Apple Inc.'s Web site. Wood-
hams then resold the Shuffles
shipped by Apple.
He has agreed to give up prop-
erty, including a house, an Audi
sedan, a race car and more than
$570,000. Woodhams will be sen-
tenced Aug. 25. A message seeking
comment was left with his lawyer.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


In Trkey, Obama
reaches out to
Muslim world
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) -
Declaring the U.S. "is not and
never will be at war with Islam,"
President Barack Obama worked
yesterday to mend frayed ties
with NATO ally Turkey and
improve relations with the larger
Muslim world.
Obama acknowledged still-raw
tensions over the Iraq warbutsaid
Muslims worldwide have little in
common with terrorists such as
al-Qaida and have much to gain
in opposing them. Reaching out,
he also spoke of Muslim connec-
tions in his own background.
"We seek broader engage-
ment based upon mutual inter-
est and mutual respect," Obama
said in a speech to Turkey's Par-
liament.
It was his first visit to a pre-
dominantly Islamic nation as
president, and he struck a bal-
ance between extending a hand
to Muslims in general and dis-
cussing Turkey's central role
in helping to bring stability to
a post-war Iraq and the wider
Middle East.
"Our partnership with the
Muslim world is critical, not just
in rolling back the violent ideolo-
gies thatrpeople of all faiths reject
but also to strengthen opportu-
nity for all its people," he said.
He portrayed terrorist groups
such as al-Qaida as extremists far
removed from the vast majority
of Muslims.
Turkey has NATO's largest
Army after the U.S., but rela-
Ford cut
stock pri
Ford shares rose
52 cents to close at
$3.77 yesterday
DETROIT (AP) - Shares of Ford
Motor Co. soared 16 percentyester-
day after the company said it com-
pleted tender offers that will reduce
its debt by38percent andshave mil-
lions ofdollars off its interest costs.
The automaker retired about
$9.9 billion in securities in
exchange for cash and shares
under terms of the debt buybacks.
Combined, the moves are
expected to reduce the Ford's
interest expenses by more than
$500 million this year, as it tries
to weather the worst auto sales
downturn in 27 years.
The Dearborn, Mich.-based
company said it will pay a total of
$2.4 billion and issue 468 million
shares as a result of the offers.
Shares of Ford rose 52 cents to
close at $3.77 yesterday.
About $4.3 billion inFord's senior
convertible notes were tendered
under an offer that expired Friday.

Up to $344 million will be used to
pay cash premiums to note holders.
A separate offer to repurchase
notes from its financingarmresult-
ed in $3.4billion in securities being
tendered. Ford Motor Credit will
use $1.1 billion to purchase that
secured term loan debt.
Ford Motor Credit previ-
ously said a second cash tender
offer that expired on March 23
was "over-subscribed," and it
doubled the amount of cash it
would spend to buy back the
debt. That resulted in the use of
$1 billion to purchase $2.2 bil-
lion in term loan debt.
Its total debt was reduced to
Going Home?
When it's tim e to pack uppeand z
in packing and shipping small
loads. Computers, skis, bikes....
you name it?
248-692-0007
M1053@gonavis.com

tions between the two countries
soured after the 2003 invasion of
Iraq, which the Turks opposed.
Turkey barred U.S. forces from
going through its country to
attack Iraq.
Now, however, since Obama is
withdrawing troops, Turkey has
become more cooperative.
Sharing parts of its southern
border with Iraq, Turkey's role in
maintaining security will be piv-
otal after U.S. combat troops are
gone, despite the Turks' lingering
problems with Kurdish militants
in northern Iraq. Turkey also has
important leverage with both
Afghanistan and Pakistan and
has served as a broker between
Israel and several Arab states.
"Turkey's greatness lies in
your ability to be at the center of
things. This is not where East and
West divide - this is where they
come together," Obama said.
He acknowledged hard feel-
ings over Iraq. "I know that strain
is shared in many places where
the Muslim faith is practiced. So
let me say this as clearly as I can:
The United States is not and will
never be at war with Islam."
Obama's visit was closely
watched by an Islamic world that
harbored deep distrust of his pre-
decessor, George W. Bush.
Al-Jazeera and Al-Arabiya,
two of the biggest Arabic satel-
lite channels, carried his remarks
live.
The president invoked his own
heritage: "The United States has
been enriched by Muslim Ameri-
cans. Many other Americans
have Muslims in their family, or
have lived in a Muslim-majority
country. I know, because I am one
of them."
,s debt,
ces soar
about $15.9 billion after the buy-
backs.
Neil Schloss, Ford's treasur-
er, said that the reduction is in
line with how much competi-
tors General Motors Corp. and
Chrysler LLC were asked to cut
as a requirement of $17.4 billion
in federal loans. Those compa-
nies have yet to reach an agree-
ment with their debt holders.
The government's auto task
force has already asked GM and
Chrysler to cut their debt by a
level equal to or greater than
two-thirds in order to receive
additional funds. Ford is not
seeking government aid, but its
overall debt reduction effort has
already amounted to more than
two-thirds of its unsecured debt.
"We believe this was a very
successful transaction," Schloss
said, adding"we're going to watch
closely what our competitors are
required to do."
A Standard & Poor's Equity
Research analyst reiterated his
"Hold" on Ford yesterday, in light of
the offer results, but said the com-
pany still faces a tough sales year.
"in addition to lowered inter-
est costs, the reduction improves
Ford's balance sheet," said ana-

lyst Efraim Levy. "We still proj-
ect sizable losses at Ford in 2009,
and note that the failure of com-
petitors or key suppliers could
further complicate Ford's situa-
tion and cause it ask for the gov-
ernment loans that it is trying to
avoid."

Italian firefightersworkaon a collapsed buildintaafter a major earthquake in L'Aquila, central Italy yesterday.
Italy quake claims 150,
injures more than 1,500

Earthquake is the
deadliest in Italy in
nearly three decades
L'AQUILA, Italy (AP) - Res-
cue workers using bare hands
and buckets searched frantically
for students believed buried in a
wrecked dormitory after Italy's
deadliest quake in nearly three
decades struck this medieval city
before dawn yesterday, killing
more than 150 people, injuring
1,500 and leaving tens of thou-
sands homeless.
The 6.3-magnitude earthquake
buckled both ancient and modern
buildings in and around L'Aquila,
snuggled in a valley surrounded by
the snowcapped Apennines' tallest
peaks.
It also took a severe toll on the
centuries-old castles and churches
in the mountain stronghold dat-
ing from the Middle Ages, and the
Culture Ministry drew up a list
of landmarks that were damaged,
including collapsed bell towers
and cupolas.
The quake, centered near
L'Aquila about 70 miles northeast
of Rome, struck at 3:22 a.m., fol-
lowed by more than a dozen after-
shocks.

Firefighters with dogs and a
crane worked feverishly to reach
people trapped in fallen build-
ings, including a dormitory of the
University of L'Aquila where a
half- dozen students were believed
trapped inside.
After nightfall yesterday, res-
cuers found a scared-looking dog
with a bleeding paw in the half-col-
lapsed dorm. Relatives and friends
of the missing stood wrapped in
blankets or huddled under umbrel-
las in the rain as rescuers found
pieces of furniture, photographs,
wallets and diaries, but none of the
missing.
The body of a male student was
found during the daylight hours.
"We managed to come down
with other students but we had to
sneak through a hole in the stairs
as the whole floor came down,"
said Luigi Alfonsi, 22, his eyes fill-
ing with tears and his hands trem-
bling. "I was in bed - it was like it
would never end as I heard pieces
of the building collapse around
me."
Elsewhere in town, firefight-
ers reported pulling a 21-year-old
woman and a 22-year-man from
a pancaked five-story apartment
building where many students had
rented flats.
Amid aftershocks, survivors

hugged one another, prayed qui-
etly or tried to call relatives. Resi-
dents covered in dust pushed carts
of clothes and blankets that they
had thrown together before fleeing
their homes.
Slabs of walls, twisted steel sup-
ports, furniture and wire fences
were strewn in the streets, and
gray dust was everywhere. A body
lay on the sidewalk, covered by a
white sheet.
Residents and rescue workers
hauled debrisfromcollapsedbuild-
ings by hand or in a bucket brigade.
Firefighters pulled a woman cov-
ered in dust from her four-story
home. Rescue crews demanded
quiet as they listened for signs of
life from inside.
RAI television showed rescue
workers gingerly pulling a man
clad only in his underwear from a
crumbled building. He embraced
one of his rescuers and sobbed
loudly as others placed a jacket
around his shoulders. Although
shaken and covered in dust, the
man was able to walk.
Some 10,000 to 15,000 buildings
were either damaged or destroyed,
officials said. L'Aquila Mayor Mas-
simo Cialente said about 100,000
people were homeless. It was not
clear if his estimate included sur-
rounding towns.

Letter believed to be from
NY killer explains shooting

Shooter said he
felt persecuted
by the police
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. (AP)
- The man who opened fire in
an immigrant center, killing 13
people before taking his own life,
felt he was persecuted by police,
couldn't accept his "poor life" and
was intent on killing himself and at
least two other people, according
to a letter mailed to a television
station the day of the massacre.
The letter's authenticity could
not immediately be verified yes-
terday. It was mailed to News
10 Now, in Syracuse, and post-
marked Friday, the day Wong
went into the American Civic
Association community center
and started shooting.
Part of the letter reads: "I
am Jiverly Wong shooting the
people."
The letter was dated March
18, more than two weeks before
the shooting, which occurred in
a neighborhood of homes and
small businesses. It included

photos of Wong smiling with two
guns, a gun permit and his driver's
license.
The letter ends with him saying
he can't "accept my poor life," that
he is taking on the job of a judge and
will "cut my poor life." He writes
"at least two people with me go to
return to the dust of the earth."
Police speculated Wong, who
was ethnically Chinese but was
from Vietnam, was angry over los-
ing a job and frustrated about his
poor English skills.

The letter reads, "I am sorry I
know a little English."
It indicates a delusional man
obsessed with unidentified police
he says taunted him and tortured
him, even going into his room,
watching him sleep and touching
him while he slept. The letter says
police stole money from his wal-
let and stopped their cars in front
of him 32 times in efforts to make
him crash into them.
"I never hit the car," the letter
states.

SCOREKEEPER

-uesdays Are Sout hOfT -e Border
Corona/Dos Equis Spooia s All Night
~z 7TquifaeSunrse & o4 1Jrin'
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
Isunr Ramb nnhNsa in to Rlmo t

.

!45 J" III4IInr.M YU4A I NI- LIMUT'l < I l1 1 ' {.A 19r~rsIIaF

7

Na ^ a a aninmo-ym

j

I I I

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
SUNGLASSES
and... more classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded
its 2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.sa.uiiicl.edu/lsa/newcourses.
.. CA


4 - Tuesday, April 7, 2009

':.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

Zl e fivic4*Pan+aily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM THEDAY
Sobering up the sytem
State legislature must pass MIP protection for students
magine this: It's a Saturday night and some students are hav-
ing a good time at a party. After the fifth cup of cheap vodka
and fruit punch, one partier passes out in the bathroom. But
no one calls an ambulance or takes the student to a hospital because
partygoers are afraid they could get slammed with a minor in pos-
session charge. It's a sad truth that Michigan's overzealous drink-
ing laws have made this situation all too possible. Thankfully, a new
proposal in the state legislature hopes to alleviate this problem, and
the state legislature should speedily approve it. But what the prob-
lem of college drinking really calls for is a national conversation -
one that the University administration should fully support.

Last week, state Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann
Arbor) introduced a bill to the Michigan
Senate to immunize underage drinkers
from criminal charges if they seek assis-
tance for an individual who is need of
medical attention because of alcohol con-
sumption. As the law stands right now, an
individual under 21 years old with a blood
alcohol concentration of .08 or higher is
considered a minor in possession. This
standard applies even if an underage stu-
dent is seeking medical aid for someone
else in need. If given an MIP, a first-time
offender can face a misdemeanor charge,
fines of up to $400, a court appearance and
possible probation.
Currently, underage drinkers have a
disincentive to help out friends in need of
medical attention because they could face
MIPs. While laws are supposed to protect
people and save lives, this policy encour-
ages the exact opposite. Each year, alcohol-
related incidents claim the lives of about
1,700 college students nationwide. Some
of these deaths might have been prevented
if these students had received the medical
attention they deserved. Students shouldn't
be punished for trying to help individuals
in need. With lives potentially at stake, the
Michigan legislature should approve Brat-
er's bill and protect underage drinkers who
do the right thing.
Despite the need for this change, Brater's
bill still won't solve some of the other prob-
lems surrounding drinkinglaws. The exten-

sive presence of binge drinking on college
campuses demonstrates that drinking age
laws are failing. The federal government
needs to take a closer look at these laws and
how effective they really are. And the U.S.
Congress should start by heeding the call of
the Amethyst Initiative, a proposal created
in July of 2008 to urge Congress to re-ex-
amine the 1984 National Minimum Drink-
ing Age Act. Under this statute, states that
failed to raise drinking ages to 21 or above
face a 10-percent cut in federal highway
funding, so the law effectively raised the
drinking age from 18 to 21.
After witnessing accidents due to binge
drinking, roughly 135 collegiate presidents
have signed the proposal. University of
Michigan President Mary Sue Coleman
isn't one of them - but she should be. A
productive solution to binge-drinking and
irresponsible alcohol consumption won't
come about without discussion. By refusing
to sign onto the Amethyst Initiative, Cole-
man has missed an opportunity to open a
dialogue that could only benefit students.
Stagnant alcohol policies have pushed
underage drinking underground and put
some college students' lives at unnecessary
risk. Michigan's legislature needs to pass
Brater's bill to help prevent loss of life in
this state. But binge drinking is a national
problem, and Congress can't continue to
pretend that its failed policy is working.
College students drink, and it's time for
government policies to recognize that fact.

I like getting A's. I like being smart.'
- Michelle Obama, addressing schoolchildren on her visit to London, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ELAINE MORTON T T PASTURE E-MAIL ELAINEAT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
Whoa. Ve No no ono! 1 t h e will be
should ta~ke we'llgeJ' Md? tru leeik
him 6 th '(oo much iroube.W .-
Switching the frequency
O ne of the most egregious viola- to certain standards. Maybe these ally dooming the broadcaster.
tions of the First Amendment standards would include selling half The second reason used to jus-
is the federal government's the copper to the government or sup- tify government intervention is the
ownership of porting certain political campaigns. mentality that we need government
radio and televi- If the copper miners refused, they to protect people from bad things.
sion wavelengths. would be shut down. People would But it's impossible to protect chil-
I suspect that most vehemently object to this, labeling it dren from everything, and the most
people have prob- as communism or fascism. likely outcome of a free media is more
ably never thought Why, then, do people not raise parental supervision of children's
about this, so it's objections to the communication habits, which would certainly be a
not surprising that industry when it's in nearly the same good thing. The greater danger of the
more people aren't situation? Each radio or television current mentality is that it leads to a
angry. station applies for a license from the suppression of free speech. The FCC
The factors uti- VINCENT Federal Communications Commis- controlsthe licensing of TV and radio
lized in production PATSY sion and agrees to follow certain rules stations - if a station upsets the FCC,
are land, labor and about airing nudity or profanity. The it gets in trouble.
capital. The impor- same principle is at work.
tant distinction here is between capi- There are two reasons generally
tal and land - land is the physical given to justify the government's
space and whatever natural resourc- involvement in communications. The W hy the gov't
es happen to be located there where- first is that the number of radio fre-
as capital is the stuff put on to that quencies is limited - there is a natu- shouldn't regulate
space. When one goes to a restaurant, ral limit on how many stations can
mostofwhatyou see is capital (chairs, exist without interfering with one TV and radio.
tables, even the building itself), while another, necessitating government
the land is the fixed space of earth. involvement to decide who gets a fre-
In strict economic terms, radio quency. But this doesn't make sense
waves fall under the category of land. because every resource is limited. By What if these rules were the same
They may not be a fixed part of the the same logic, the government could for newspapers? The governient
earth, but they have a definite capi- nationalize everything from wheat to would own the paper's right to dis-
tal value. Just as we need a mine to iron to oil. There is a limited amount tribute while the paper would own
access copper in the earth, we need a of land on earth and even less that the actual presses. Any timea paper or
radio transmitter to access the radio can be used for production. magazine said anythingtoo "radical,"
spectrum. Just as copper has value in The solution for radio stations it could immediately be shut down by
the production of wire, a radio station should be the same as with any other the government. This would be con-
can sell time to advertisers by garner- limited resource. The first person at sidered fascism of the worst sort, but
ing a large listening audience. When a certain frequency would own that that is what's happening right now
copper is in high demand, the value unit of radio frequency. If someone with radio and TV stations.
of copper will rise and the value of began interfering with that frequen- The right to a free press can only
the mine increases. The more people cy, the owner would have the right exist with private property rights.
listening to a particular station, the to handle the situation as if someone If one can't own one's product, then
higher the value of the advertising were trespassing on private property. there is no incentive for improvement
spot. The free market has a natural sys- or innovation. Owning the right to
Suppose the federal government tem of self-regulation - if the station a frequency is just as important as
owned all the land in the United began broadcasting radical view- owning a transmitter or web page to
States that were rich in copper. The points, it could lose customers. This spread news and entertainment.
government would then lease out the loss in customers would mean a lower
land to certain producers as long as capital value and, consequently, less - Vincent Patsy can be reached
they promised to operate according revenue for advertisements, eventu- at vapasy@umich.edu.
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers to be columnists
during the spring and summer semesters. Columnists write 750 words
on a topic of their choice every other week.

E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

4

4

4

4

4

I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
EMILY ERNST | VIEWPINT
Donate plasma this month

I

April is Primary Immune Deficiency Aware-
ness month. Primary Immune Deficiency Dis-
eases are genetic disorders that cause some
part of the immune system to function incor-
rectly, leaving people with these conditions
extremely susceptible to illness. I am one of
approximately 250,000 Americans diagnosed
with one of these disorders.
PIDDs are life threatening when left untreat-
ed. For most people with the disease, a simple
cold can turn into a severe sinus infection or
pneumonia. The longer a person lives without
being diagnosed, the greater the chances that
the individual will die or suffer severe medi-
cal problems. People who live long enough to
be diagnosed are put on a treatment called
Immune Globulin therapy (IgG), which I have
been receiving since I was three years old.
IgG is made out of human plasma, a blood
component separated from the red and white
blood cells. The body fights off diseases using
many of the proteins found in plasma and,
by taking regular injections of medications
derived from plasma, those with the disor-
der are able to fight off diseases. Without this
medicine, we would be almost constantly sick.
My doctors determined I had an immune defi-
ciency after I had contracted pneumonia three
separate times by age three and had monthly
sinus infections that I couldn't get rid of with-
out antibiotics and steroids.
Immune deficients aren't the only people
who benefit from plasma. The medications are
also used to treat hemophilia, pediatric HIV,

hepatitis, genetic lung disorders and, occasion-
ally, animal bites. Even though so many differ-
ent diseases are treated with plasma, people do
not donate as much as they could. When plasma
collection centers can't collect enough, it causes
extreme shortages of the medications, and peo-
ple who have any of the previously mentioned
conditions are unable to get the medicine they
need to lead a normal life. During the last plas-
ma shortage in the late 1990s, people I know
were unable to get their IgG for extended peri-
ods of time and started to get sick frequently.
I still received my medication throughout the
entire shortage because I was given priority as
a minor, but many others weren't as lucky.
In recognition of Primary Immune Deficien-
cy Awareness month, I would like to ask every-
one to consider donating plasma. The nearest
donation center is in Ypsilanti, but I encour-
age students to find donation centers in their
hometowns. To find the donation center clos-
est to you, go to www.donatingplasma.org. The
website also gives additional information on
the uses of plasma and the donation process.
I strongly encourage all of you to donate.
You may be saving someone's life and you could
grant a healthy, normal lifestyle to someone who
wouldn't have one otherwise. Plasma is an enor-
mous gift that recipients are extremely thank-
ful for. From the bottom of my heart, thank you
to all of the current plasma donors and I hope
many of you consider donating in the future.
Emily Ernst is an LSA freshman.

Centerfor Ethics integrates study
of ethics into University life
TO THE DAILY:
In a recent editorial (Bringing ethics back, 03/31/2009)
the Daily called for greater emphasis on ethics in the aca-
demic life of the University. The Center for Ethics in Pub-
lic Life seeks to do just that.
Almost five years ago, noting rising public concern about
unethical behavior and institutional failures in American
society, University President Mary Sue Coleman created
a task force of faculty, staff and students to examine ways
in which the University might, according to the Center's
website, "explore the synergies of education and scholar-
ship on the issue of ethics in public life, contributing to
and in some cases structuring broader public discourse
on these issues." Recent events only increase the sense of
urgency about responding to unethical behavior in profes-
sional and public life.
During its work, the task force found many programs and
activities already in place that addressed these issues and
identified strong foundations on which new efforts mightbe
built. It also identified some significant needs, particularly
in undergraduate education, research on ethics in public life,
public discourse and outreach. The task force's report led to
a presidential initiative that culminated in the establish-
ment last summer of the Center for Ethics in Public Life.
The Center's mission is to ensure that ethics occupies
a central place in the University's teaching, research and
public discourse. We welcome the Daily's attention to
ethics and invite members of the University community
to join in finding ways to make our common goals a real-
ity. The Center's funding programs provide support for
student projects, faculty research, course development,
speakers and symposia sponsored by individuals, student
organizations and other units of the University.
We are currently accepting applications for Center fel-
lowships for undergraduates and doctoral candidates who
are engaged in making ethics an important part of their
academic and campus lives. We invite members of the

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
University community to submit proposals for projects
that will contribute to making ethics a more important
component of learning, research and campus life.
Our website, www.ethics.umich.edu, provides detailed
information on our programs, maintains a calendar of eth-
ics-related events on campus and provides links to recent
news articles and resources that address issues related to
ethics in public life. We invite you to sign up for our news-
letter and find ways to get involved with addressing the
pressing issues of ethics in professional and public life.
John R. Chamberlain
Director of the Center for Ethics in Public Life
Daily article fails to give tax
increase adequate attention
TO THE DAILY:
Though on the surface it will appear to be an issue of
political divide, I ask that you take my critique of Tues-
day's story (Lawmakers propose plan to provide tuition
relieffor Michigan residents, 03/31/2009) asa neutral con-
cern over news priorities. The article in question touts
tuition relief as the important part of the story and barely
mentions the tax increase. The rate hike would be the
largest set increase (not tied to some third variable) in the
state's history. This is not some passing matter. Rather,
the representatives' attemptto pass such an unprecedent-
ed tax increase in this economic climate should have been
the lead here. If your news team did notconsider that pos-
sibility seriously - or the severity of it - then the claim to
lower tuition should have received the same derision. .
I know many students from out of state care only about
lower tuition rates - Michigan residents be damned -but
this is a newsworthy legislative action for reasons other
than your focus. Even without the personal concern, the
remarkable nature of the plan deserves a public debate.
Gideon D'Assandro
Alum

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edit-
ed for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, A pril 7, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, April 7, 2009 - 5

FILM COLUMN
A screenplay
sign-off

This is my last film col-
umn for the Daily.
Yes, the obvious thing
to do is self-congratulate or self-
flagellate. But
hear me out.
This really is
it for me, and
I didn't get to
say goodbye
in the Daily's
annual senior
farewell last BLAKE
winter, so this GOBLE
is it.
I've been here for four years,
which includes three chances
of getting canned, two letters to
the editor about me, one posi-
tion as an editor and one semes-
ter of having a column. I've
published more than 150 pieces
for this newspaper. I hate to say
the sappy stuff, but the Daily's
been the love of my life.
Oh lord, separation anxiety
is kicking in. Print journalism
and film criticism is hurting.
No. No! There will be no "Jerry
Maguire"s here.
I just want to get a couple of
things out there before I write
out my ideal ending. I love mov-
ies, which probably makes me
the same as you. I don't profess
to know more than anyone. I
hope I was never condescending
to anyone. I just have an opin-
ion, like you.
I'm an Art & Design student.
I'm not a pothead finger-paint-
er. Neither are my friends. I'm
a dude who truly believes in
visual literacy as the best pos-
sible stomping ground for peo-
ple to engage with each other.
To alter Billy Crudup's "last"
words in "Almost Famous": I
dig movies. Sure, I dig my used
Criterion DVDs, countless
screenings of "Ghostbusters"
and random writing about all
that stuff. But it means noth-
ing without having people with
which to share it.
So, to any and every person
that's read my junk over the
years, thank you so much. Dave.
Kristin. Bloomer. Paul. Caroline.
You were members of the Daily
who nurtured me from a wreck
to a reckless writer. Family and
friends? Well, duh. And anyone
who took the time to actually
comment on, criticize, e-mail
or just talk to me about my
thoughts on movies, you're what
meant the most to me. Oh, and
in response to the commenter
who told me - or rather, my
mom - that I should stop writ-
ing? Nah.
This is almost all I can do.
Now that I've required more
Kleenex to dry my tears than
"Terms of Endearment" needed,
I leave you with my ending.
Laugh, sure, if you need to, but
I learned how to write screen-
plays for this moment. And this
kind of an ending is a bit more
chipper than you think.
PAGE 232
INT. STANFORD LIPSEY
STUDENT PUBLICATIONS
BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Blake's last Sunday Arts
meeting at the Daily has ended.

The small crowd of writers dis-
perses into its subsections: Fine
Arts, Music, Film and TV/New
Media.
BLAKE: Huh.
Blake stares around. No audi-
ble sound. He does his last reads
on reviews. Still no sound. It's
routine by now, but it happens
faster than it ever has before.
He's done.
INT. STUDENT PUBLICA-
TIONS STAIRWELL.
Blake stares out the window.
He looks like he can't bring him-
self to leave. One of his editors
appears.
EDITOR: Hey Blake.
BLAKE: Hey.
EDITOR: Four years huh?
BLAKE: Yup.
EDITOR: What's next? You
going anywhere? Jobs? School?
BLAKE: Dunno.
They walk down together.
Step one: Write
for the Daily.
Step two:
Become Batman.
Camera tracks behind them.
EDITOR: Hey man. You've
done a lot here. Stop mop-
ing about not being the "best
writer," or being insecure about
all the people who were your
editors. It's whatever. Screw it.
You're our writer. You wrote a
hell of a lot.
Blake is standing at the door.
Think "The Searchers."
BLAKE (sullen): I could've
done more ...
EDITOR (comfortingly):
You've done too much. Forget
it Blake, it's the Daily ... Take it
easy. Write on.
Blake stands in the doorway
visibly aching still. Editor walks
off. Blake rubs his shoulder,
uncomfortable with the thought
of not being able to write for
this thing anymore. Pause.
INSERT CUT: Blake, fresh-
man year. Skinnier. Optimis-
tic. Getting chewed on for his
review for "Doom" the movie.
INSERT CUT: Close-up.
Blake's face. He smirks. Like his
awful headshot.
EXT. MAYNARD STREET
Blake runs up to his Batpod.
Hops on.
CUE "A Dark Knight" by
Hans Zimmer & James Newton
Howard.
Rushes down State street
toward I-94. Camera's behind
the Batpod, and as Blake hits
the off-ramp, he pumps both his
fists.
FREEZE FRAME.
BLAKE (v.o.): I can ride a
bike? ... Oh shi...
CUT TO BLACK.
CUE "Ghostbusters" by Ray
Parker Jr.
Goble is writing a film about
himself. If you want to see it, e-mail
him at bgoblue@umich.edu.

India's 'Pool' of talent

The newest Indian import
showcases the performing
skills of untrained actors
By KAVI PANDEY
DailyArts Writer
In the past few months, "Slumdog Million-
aire" has won the hearts of
audiences worldwide. Its suc-
cess has sparked a recent surge
of interest in films about India, RM Pool
which benefits films like 2007
Sundance Award winner "The At the
Pool." The movie, released last Michigan
fall, has finally been able to find Bluemark
its footing in smaller markets.
The film's protagonist, a
young man named Venkatesh (newcomer Ven-
katesh Chaven) embodies the idea of India's
working-class population. The film is quick to
show the tedium of his menial job at a hotel,
where he spends his days tidying rooms and
doing laundry. Like most Indians in his class,
Venkatesh's poverty is exemplified by his lack of
material possessions. Though basic necessities
like food, clothing and shelter are never lack-
ing, audiences will never see him kick back on

his couch and watch a cricket match with a cold
beer. In addition, Venkatesh is unable to read
or write. His illiteracy is not due to the lack of
educational opportunities in India, but rather a
result of his decision to get a job so he can send
money home to his family.
Part of Venkatesh's daily routine includes
perching himself on top of a tree and gazing
in a trance-like state at a vast, blue pool in the
backyard of a local mansion. He dreams of the
rush of jumping into it, being enveloped by the
cool, crisp water and washing away all of life's
problems. After striking a friendship with the
pool's owner (Bollywood legend Nana Patekar)
and his daughter Ayesha (newcomer Ayesha
Mohan), Venkatesh soon discovers he is not the
only person who holds a deep connection with
the pool. And, since this is a coming-of-age story,
Venkatesh naturally comes to realize his true
destiny by the film's end.
"The Pool," which is documentary filmmaker
Chris Smith's ("The Yes Men") first foray into
fiction, reaches extraordinary levels of authen-
ticity. Smith cast his two leads, Venkatesh and
his preteen friend Jhangir (newcomer Jhangir
Badshah), from off the streets. As non-profes-
sional actors who have actually experienced the
hardships of their characters, they give wonder-
fully natural performances. The movie is shot on
location in the stunning city of Panjim; the film

artfully captures its dust-strewnstreets and ver-
dant jungles. Smith also throws peculiar quirks
about Indian culture into the film: Venkatesh
discusses his impending arranged marriage,
dodges mopeds and rickshaws in traffic and
boards up the hotel for the monsoon season.
Nana Patekar is famous across India for his
angry, vivacious roles in Bollywood films. Yet,
in a film full of amateur actors, the veteran
gives a quiet, commanding performance as a
man with a troubled past. Patekar's acting is
impeccable, as can be seen in his subtle trans-
formation from a stubborn, isolated brute to a
father figure for Venkatesh. His daughter Ayes-
ha is an angsty teenager with surprising depth.
Her hatred of her father is actually given plau-
sible justification.
While "Slumdog" transported audiences
into a fairytale India with extreme depictions
of poverty and violence, "The Pool" is an ideal
portrayal of everyday life in India. Additional-
ly, it's an astounding feat that Smith managed
to direct this film entirely in Hindi without
knowing a word of the language. Without a
percussive score, fancy camerawork or an over-
the-top song and dance sequence, "The Pool"
isn't as technically flashy as its Indian counter-
parts. Instead, it relies on outstanding perfor-
mances and characters to create an admirable,
meditative film.

'Deadliest Warrior,' dumbest show

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
Who would win in a fight: a ninja
or a Spartan?
OK, how about
a pirate versus
a knight? Ques-D
tions like these
have been hotly Warrior
debatedbystoned Tuesdays
college students Tays
for hours on end atlO p.m.
but without any Spike
sort of evidence.
These arguments have never been
officially resolved - until now.
Spike's newest addition to its
line-up, "Deadliest Warrior,"
attempts to set the record straight
once and for all.
Science and rigor are heavily
emphasized in "Deadliest Warrior."
The premier pits an Apache warrior
against an ancient Roman gladiator.
Their weapons are tested for lethal-
ity, and the weapon data, along with
other factors like fighting style and
armor, are entered into a computer
program that simulates 1,000 fights
between the two. Whoever wins the
majority of the fights is deemed the
superior fighter.
This "science" is explained by the
show's narrator, who uses a bizarre
fake accent to make the things seem
more epic. But it's difficult to pay
attention to what someone is saying

when you're just trying to figure out
why he's talking so strangely.
The most obvious problem with
"Deadliest Warrior," though, is
figuring out whether its tests are
technically accurate or inaccurate.
There's no evidence this science
actually works. Rather than making
the details understandable for the
average viewer, the scientists make
the testing and computer software
sound shady and under-developed.
The show focuses primarily on
weaponry as the determining fac-
tor in who will win a fight. As a
result, alot of other combat factors
are underemphasized. It seems
strange - and scientifically irre-
sponsible - that the strength and
speed of individual competitors
are disregarded in the equation.
Apache warriors and gladiators
are from completely different
societies, and it's reasonable to
assume they wouldn't be evenly
matched in muscle and swift-
ness - but then again, we're not
the "experts."
Combat environment is also
overlooked. An Apache war-
rior probably wouldn't hold up
well in an arena, and a gladia-
tor would have more difficulty
against a surprise ambush. It's
possible that neither combatant
would know how to fight with-
out home-field advantage. But
the show assumes each's fight-

ing style doesn't change with loca- reenactments of Apache ambushes
tion - an obvious error considering and gladiator battles whenever pos-
the final showdown is set in a North sible. Theyare hilariously corny the
American forest, which should give first few times, but quickly became
the Apache an advantage. annoying and overused. As a result,
the final showdown between the
Apache and the gladiator, which is
A fight in which supposed to be the show's climax,
loses all suspense and is perhaps
nobody wins even more boring than the reenact-
ments preceding it.
"Deadliest Warrior" might
sound cool, with future episodes
What detracts from any air promising showdowns between
of seriousness the show tries to the Yakuza and the Mafia and
create are its theatrical reenact- between a Samurai and a Viking.
ments, complete with low-budget Still, the overall cheese factor and
costumes, poorly choreographed shoddy science of "Deadliest War-
fights and bucket after bucket of rior" turn the cool idea into a sad
fake blood. The show uses these failure.


SHALL I COMPARE THEE
TO A SUMMER'S DAY?
HELL NO. WRITE FOR
FINE ARTS.
Work for our Fine Arts staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu.

A74
? t F
y
o Y ,

Think you know it all?
The Campus Information Centers are hiring for
fall! Applications are available online or at one
of our two locations-in the Michigan Union or
Pierpont Commons. Applications are due by
Friday, April 10!
Campus
Information
Centers
umich.edu/infol 734-764-INFO

ti ,, } { ;'i ? {?, ,-ti j ice;' i g ;Yy , $ ',? l 4

k
t4'
t?
i-p
°4'
,t$
i4
I, 4F
lg;
i


6-Tuesday, April 7, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

4

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
51t E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today.....734-761-8000.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
f or ren
060
! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
Ht) directv witb DVR service & inter-
net incuded w/ each apt. name rom,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarorapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, arnerpkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALl C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATES$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included!
Hury....Oly 3 left !
734-71-8000
primesh.com
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! This special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're
gone! universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Fall '09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Offstreet prkg, Indry, water
incl. 734.223.7777.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm-
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
*3 BDRM HOUSE, free prkg. & ldry.,
close to camps, 734-649-7571.
*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
Fall 09. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail, on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com


FREE PIZZA OR BUBBLE ISLAND
COUPON WITH EVERY NEW
TOUR UNTIL THEY'RE GONE

*REDUCED RATES ON 2 BEDROOMS*
We offer many amenities such as,
FREE Wireless Internet, FREE
Food Every week, Workout room,
Outdoor Pool, Study Lounge,
TV Lounge, Laundry room,
24 attended Lobby, Great
Maintenance, Free Rentals,
Free Heat and Water included
with every apartment.
STOP BY TODAY AND FIND
OUT MORE DETAILS ABOUT
OUR LATEST SPECIALS
YOU'LL SEE WHY WERE
STILL #1
University Towers Apartments
536 South Forest Ave.
AnnArbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
5001 S. FOREST
. Great Campus Location!
" Large 2-bedrooms for 2- 4 people!
- (734) 668-1100
. www.varsitymanagment.com
1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
" Great Old West Side location!
" Large 1 & 2-bedrooms!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitytnanagement.com
1346 GEDDES
* 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
* Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
* (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberny. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1
bath, basetnentrwshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.

331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May - May!
- 1-bedroom private entrance and porch!
" (734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
401 EAST MADISON - 1 bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.witsonwhitemanagement.com
418 E. WASHINGTON
" Grad Students Galore!
- Mature, quiet study environment!
+(734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
515 & 521 Walnut
- CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
" 1 & 2 bdnrs of all shapes and sizes!
"(734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
" Jst off West Qad!
" Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 510 Catherine.
only4 mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living no.
$3000 neg. plan ali. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porcl! Available
May '09 to August '09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wisonwhitemanagement.con
848TAPPAN
- ON Central Campus near B School!
" Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy 1-bedroom!
. (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
917 PACKARD
- Business & Law School so close!
" Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
"(734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
1 & 2 Bdrm. frn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
"a e 1ae "
Obed and Oa
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms

Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734,741.9300
www.annarborapa men anet
or Visit uS at
1700 Geddes Ave.

WilsonWhite
i MAA AGE M NT
1 I
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bingths adnto lease ignne and ae
 ill wae th aplicatint Itoand redce
security deposit to one month's rent
1 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
1 www.wIlsonwhitemanagemeit.com
- - ----- - -- - - -
Rooms, studios, and 1-to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Yor attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.cot, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
331 CATHERINE
- 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
. Kerrytown! - need we say more?!?!
. Or separate 3-bdrm apts; we'll accom-
modate you!
(734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.com
Studie&d a
e r. drm. ts
st- ower Pla arCond ofum
e- i,-ec rn m can
734-663-1530
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complte rhaba3ful bathrooms wit
though out the house. kea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathonlravis@sbcglobal.net
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $14,820
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
= $16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off alt remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
theyre gone, theyre gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-m.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and alt
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique atic spacend large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.

Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.tnichcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.

H1UUNE UK KUUMforT rent.2ba 4 a,
furnished, side drive parking, excellent
location, 248-709-9981.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.carnpusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primnsh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net

PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimmina mpol.Pet friendly!

www varsityetco
Management
625 Church St
(1341n8-nw0
188lms8: and Lay 8119811
Varsly CBS
Great locationsl
Great Prices!
GroalAuartmensl
Call toda fr a personal tai
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in alllo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mi. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. prlmesh.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT on remain-
ing spaces at 4 Eleven Lofts -
734.998.4400 4elevenlofts.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
070
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

4

4

4

2
Fall a
Spac
Fre(
Call
info
info@
Call
326
90
10:
72
*F
Ho

,:Poggt Realty7
pro~perties
HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
-bedroom apartments Six days a week- To order visit
nd May leases available, home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
ous apts., great location, THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yin. U-M exp.
e internet. 912 S. Forest. 996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
or email Post Realty for
showing or more
rmation: 734-761-8220 or
postrealtyproperties.Com
NOW LEASING IIIBARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
Prime Student Housing tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
761-8000
www.primesh.com training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
toy d s Ho ANN ARBOR BASED company,
oday In see your new Home! Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
Eff.ic.ciest individuals for our Manager Develop-
344 S. Division ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
1 Bedooms:hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
5 Bed0rms in the state. We will be holding inter-
515 E. Lawrence views weekly; please submit resumes
E. Madison-Reduced Rates to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
511 E.Hoover
13205. University BORDERLINE PERSONALITY
2 Bedrooms: DISORDER Healthy, right-handed
9 Church-Reduced Rates women with a diagnosis of Borderline
21 Vaughn-Reduced Rates Personality Disorder needed for a study
1 S. Forest-Reduced Rates of stress and emotions, Study partici-
1320 S. University pants will have 1 fMRI and 2 PET
411 High-Reduced Rates scans along with psychological evalua-
819 Brown tions. Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580
'ully Furnished apartment IRBMED #2003-0663
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet EARN EXTRA MONEY. Stadents
* Free heat and water needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
(* At most locations) being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St. FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
(734) 663-8989 +/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
www.oldlownrnealty.nt pus, flexible hrn. Studen@s, apply
wewafund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
uses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!! PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
8 Bedroom House ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400 session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
7 Bedroom Houses vision correctable to 20/20. 1RB #:
406 E. Jefferson $3,850 HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
1220 Prospect $3,850 nkalaida@ned.umich.edu
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House . .
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300 contin uI d on
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995 the next page
mrthe nextnpag,

4

4

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, April 7,2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Working on, as
homework
6 44th president
11 Actress Gardner
14 The blahs
15 Rice dish
16"Big" London
clck
17Astound
19 Sob
20 Pickle holder
21 Oater actorJack
22 "It's a Wonderful
Life" director
Frank
24 Cyclotron particle
26 Chain known for
breakasts
28 Breathing organ
30 Litter cries
32 "Married ... With
Children" dad
35 One hanging
around
38 Suffix with web
39 Gossipy types
42 Letter after sigma
43 Refined grace
44 Kate of "The
Reader'
6 Sarge's order
50 "Pop, ptop, tazz,
fizz" brand word
51 Hard to recall
54 "Don't _ me,
bro!
55 "That rings a bell"
58 Darn with thread
60 Encountered
61 Saturn SUV
62 Classic baking
powder brand
65 _ loss: puzzled
66 Hang in midair
67 Kate's sitcom pal
68'60s "trip" drug
69 33-Down's field
70 Like really old
bread
DOWN
1Hip-hop retard
label
2 Airing after
midnight, say
3 Way to organize
all yoar dacks?
4 Pencil remnant
5 Scoff at

6 Talk's Winfrey
7 USS Missouri
nickname
8 _ mode
9 Fem.'s opposite
10 Aptly named
shaving lotion
11 Six-pack
enhancer?
12 Open porches
13 "Pick a card, _
card"
18 Qualified
23 Like "algae" or
"termini": Abbr.
25 Uris's__ 18"
27 Italian cheese
ctyp
29 Class with
showers
31 Prizenfounder
33 Price known for
Verdi roles
34 "How to Talk
Dirty and
Influence People"
author Lenny
36 Canines and
molars
37 Bit of work
39 Large-scale
financial rescues
40 Bozo

41 Revival structure
42 "Up, up and
away" defunct
flier
45 Declare
47 Skating gold
medalist Dorothy
48 Log-in
requirement
49 Upton rival
52 "Waves ofgrain"
color

53 Striped equine
56 Sound rebound
57 Porker's dinner
59 Apothecary's
weight
61 Batman
portrayer
Kilmer
63 N.Y.'s Fifth, for
one
64 Mop & _: floor
cleaner

4

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

4

rn

Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tac PMS twwrmirrete o

D

in

i

4

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rmtes: $3.75 per linefor the tissue and$1.75 perlineforeach additional
consecutiveissue
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- contact ourstafffor details
" Students may receivea 20% discounttwhen ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
* All adsmust be prepaid unlessprior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one ofour Account Executives

4

ny Don Gagliardo
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

04/07/09

I


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 7, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, April 7, 2009 - 7A
S

Killing removes
top rival to
Chechen leader

Gates urges Congress to shift
funds from weapons to troops

Assassination most Delim
the Chec
visible killing of resents t
.has denie
Chechen figure Any t
since 2004 the Dub
unlikely b
threaten
MOSCOW (AP) - The assas- keeping 1
sin of a renegade Chechen war- ble after
lord tossed a gold-plated pistol to years.
the ground next to the body - a The D
flamboyant coda to the death in the most
Dubai that marked the removal of egade Ch
the last major rival of Chechnya's when for
Kremlin-backed leader. Presiden
Dubai's police chief has yev died
accused a Russian parliamentar- intelligen
ian - and confidant of Chechen victed ant
President Ramzan Kadyrov - of serve the
masterminding the March 28 Many
killing thousands of miles from met violet
Chechnya, outside a beachfront fighting
residential complex in a glitzy includini
neighborhood of Dubai. Kadyrov was shot,
yesterdefended Adam Delimkha- on a Mos
nov, a man he called his "friend, Kadyrov
brother and, moreover, my right side his h
hand," and said the police allega- Durin
tions against him were a "provo- the Chec
cation" and "slander." transform
A suspect in custody told hulking
authorities that one of the law- He overt
maker's guards had provided the Europe's
killer with the gold-plated pistol his effort
that killed Sulim Yamadayev, the and blunt
Dubai police chief said. els.
The lawmaker was in Syria, Yulia I
according to Kadyrov, but he was mentator
expected to return to Russia. As a eled exte
member of parliament Delimkha- Kadyrov'
nov enjoys immunity from prosecu- has made
tion, and Russia's constitution bans ter of th
the extradition of Russian citizens. region.
learned i
FINE "Twen
From Page 1 about hit
command
to just sit and listen to him." said. "An
In addition to his career in what he
teaching, Fine was president of thing as h
the Labor Historians, served as tory beca
history department chairman, it out for
and was a member of the National Brook
Archives Advisory Council. He of great
was also a member of the Ameri- or her s
can Historical Association and the that was
University Musical Society. exceptio
Jim Weindorf one of Fine's for- "There
met students said every lecture of people w
Fine's was "a performance." as long ae
"Of all my classes that I took, their only
that's the one that I wouldn't learned
miss," he said. "I wanted to be in wrote in
the front seat and I wanted to take
copious notes."
Weindorf added that he still
remembers much of what he
the michigan daily
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
For W
YOUTH ADVISOR JOB Posting- ARIE
Temple Beth Emeth seeks part-time (Marcc
Youth Advisor to begin September, Do y
2009. About 10 hours per week. Over- because
see 3 youth groups. Experience n struggles
NFTY is preferred. Salary commensu- striy
rate with experience. Must be available authority
for full-weekend retreats 5 times per your u
year. Please send emails of inquiry, TAUR
plus resume, to Cantor Rose: cantoran- (April
nie@gmail.com. or call 665-4744. A buil
or custor

" place tod
sUmmer e mp 4ym Pluto (to
row). Yil
GEMI
(May
SPurens
today. Si
.sKandAhis be patie
WORK ON MACKINAC isnds Moon to
Sumr - Make life long friends Te of tensi
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge sot.
Shops are looking for seasonal help in spoAsC
all areas: Frost Desk, Bell Stuff Wait CANC1
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristan. Hous- (June
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail- Power
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304. especiall
www.theislandhouse.com today.r
Forewarn
don't ev
2009 SUMMER/FALL LEO
INTERNSHIP . (July 2
Beer Distributor located in Ypsilanti, Conve
covering territories in Washtenaw, Liv- siblings,
ingston, Western Wayne and Monroe Pepea
Counties. Looking for a hard working People
Business Student, must be 21 and have what to
a car. Flexible hours, evenings and one want
weekends especially during Football - VIRG
Hockey Season. Fun, hands-on experi- (Aug.
ence in Sales, Special Events and Mar- Money
keting. Apply in person at O&W, Inc. are likel
3003 William St. Ypsilanti. 734-480- somethir
about it
I I _LIBRA
C C (Sept.
Resist
with an
because
NATIVE SPANISH SPEAKING
babysitter needed May through August
part-time. Call 734-754-1145.
PART-TIME ITALIAN speaking
babysitter needed for 7 year old child.
email: mamarc@comcast.net

khanov, 39, a cousin of
hen president who rep-
he region in parliament,
ed involvement.
sussian investigation into
ai allegations would be
to lead to charges or to
Kadyrov, who is key to
the southern region sta-
two separatist wars in 14
3ubai assassination was
visible killing of a ren-
echen figure since 2004,
mer Chechen separatist
t Zelimkhan Yandarbi-
in Qatar. Two Russian
nce agents were con-
nd sent back to Russia to
ir sentences.
of Kadyrov's rivals have
nt ends after lives spent
in the Chechen wars,
g a former warlord who
dead by Chechen police
cow avenue and a former
bodyguard killed out-
tome in Vienna.
g Kadyrov's presidency,
hen capital, Grozny, was
ted from a moonscape of
ruins into a modern city.
saw the construction of
biggest mosque as part of
s to impose Islamic values
the appeal of Islamic reb-
Latynina, a- political com-
and author who has trav-
nsively in Chechnya, said
s push to rebuild Chechnya
him the undisputed mas-
e predominantly Muslim
n Fine's class.
ty years later, I think
m all the time and how he
dedpeople'sattention,"he
d you just waited to hear
had to say about some-
he was going through his-
use he could kind of sort
you."
s said Fine was the kind
teacher "who makes his
ubject come alive," and
what made his career so
nal.
e probably aren't a lot of
ho can look back on a life
nd rich as his and say that
y regret is that they never
how to drive," Brooks
the e-mail.
- Daily News Editors Jillian
Berman and Trevor Calero
contributed to this report.

Defense secretary's
proposal to slash
programs could result
in job losses
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
nation should stop pouring billions
into futuristic, super-expensive
F-22 jet fighters, pull the plug on
new presidential helicopters and
put the money into systems U.S.
soldiers can use against actual foes,
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
declared yesterday.
Major overhaul plans laid out by
the Obama administration's Penta-
gon chief would slash several giant
weapons programs - and thou-
sands of civilian jobs that go with
them. With recession unemploy-
ment rising, Congress may balk at
many of the cuts in Gates' proposed
$534 billion budget for the coming
year.
Still, despite all the talk of cuts,
the total figure would rise from
$513 billion for 2009, and Gates
spoke of using money more wisely,
not asking for less.
Gates, a holdover from the Bush
administration, said he is gear-
ing Pentagon buying plans to the
smaller, lower-tech battlefields the
military is facing now and expects
in coming years. He also said he
hopes lawmakers will resist temp-
tations to save outdated system that
keep defense plants humming in
their home districts.
The Pentagon, he said, wants
to move away from both outdated
weapons systems conceived in the
Cold War and futuristic programs
aimed at super-sophisticated foes.
Gates said he would expand
spending on equipment that tar-
gets insurgents, such as $2 billion
more on surveillance and recon-
naissance equipment. That would
include funding for 50 new Preda-
tor drones such as those that have
rained down missiles on militants
hiding along the Afghanistan-Pak-
istan border.
"We must rebalance this depart-
ment's programs in order to
FACULTY
From Page 1
chair and Engineering professor,
disagreed with their sentiments.
SACUA Chair David Potter
questioned the deans' proposed
changes to the faculty track poli-
cies on the grounds that by making
all research titles comparable, they
would also be eligible for regular

Defense Secretary Robert Gates listens to a reporters question at news conference at the Pentagon in Washington yesterday.

institutionalize and finance our
capabilities to fight the wars we
are in today and the scenarios we
are most likely to face in the years
ahead," he said.
Major programs facing cuts
include the F-22 Raptor, the mili-
tary's most expensive fighter plane
at $140 million apiece. An action
movie come to life, sleek, fast and
nearly invisible, the Raptor is ill-
suited to deterring roadside bombs
in Iraq or hunting insurgents who
vanish into the Afghan moun-
tains.
Gates says the Pentagon won't
continue the F-22 program beyond
187 planes already planned. Bethes-
da, Md.-based Lockheed, the
nation's largest defense contractor,
has said almost 95,000 jobs could
be at stake.
Gates also said no to a new fleet
of Marine One presidential heli-
copters - with a price tag of $13
billion, more than double the origi-
rates in raises.
Thouless also said research
professors with different levels of
standing should not have the same
title.
"It seems to me that this pro-
posed rule for (the Office of the
Vice President for Research) is
(that) you're going to call a profes-
sor that is everything equal," Thou-
less said. "If they're not equal, then
there's this other rank. You can't

nal budget. He said new helicopters
would be needed at some point but
he wants time to figure out a better
solution.
A $160 billion Army system of
combat vehicles, flying sensors
and bomb-hunting robots would
be reduced, too, as would plans to
build a shield of missile intercep-
tors to defend against attacks by
rogue countries. The Navy would
revamp plans to buy new destroy-
ers.
A new communications satellite
would be scrapped, and a program
for a new Air Force transport plane
would be ended.
Congress reacted cautiously.
Large defense contractors
and their supporters on Capitol
Hill scrambled to assess how the
changes would affect them. Gates
had demanded total secrecy dur-
ing weeks of Pentagon discussions,
even requiring senior military offi-
cers to swear in writing that-they
have someone who's not equal; then
there's something else you can call
them. This application is the same
thing it should be. If people are
equal, then they should have equal
titling."
Gyetko also expressed opposi-
tion to another part of the poli-
cy that would require assistant
research professors to be reviewed
by an external source after six
years of employment at the Medi-

would not talk out of school.
Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa.,
chairman of the House Appro-
priations Defense Subcommittee,
called the proposals an important
and overdue attempt to balance
want and need at the Defense
Department.
"However, the committee will
carefully review the department's
recommendations in the context
of current and future threats when
we receive the detailed fiscal year
2010 budget request," Murtha
said.
Some programs would grow.
Gates proposed speeding up pro-
duction of the F-35 fighter jet. That
program could end up costing $1
trillion to manufacture and main-
tain 2,443 planes. The military
would buy more speedy ships that
can operate close in to land. And
more money would be spent outfit-
ting special forces troops who can
hunt down insurgents.
cal School. She said this practice
would make it appear as if the Uni-
versity could not review its own
faculty.
But Thouless said the external
review is important.
"I'm a bit puzzled by the fact
that you're saying someone after
six years has to at least be reviewed
by someone from outside the Medi-
cal School, why that's punitive," he
said.



tednesday, April 8, 2009
S
h 21 to April 19)
our best to be calm today,
it's very easy to have power
with others, especially female
figures or partners. Don't blow
US
20 to May 20)
dup of tension with co-workers
mers where you work could take
day. This tension is related to
day) and the Full Moon (tomor-
ces!
NI
2t to June 20)
2s must be patient with children
milarly, romantic partners must
nt with each other. The Full
morrow will generate a buildup
ion in these areas. (Ditto for
:ER
21 to July 22)
struggles with family members,
y female relatives, are likely
Consider this a warning.
ned is forearmed. Therefore,
en go there. (Keep the peace!)
3 to Aug. 22)
rautions with others, especially
,will he tense or agitated today.
are inclined to tell each other
do or how they should live. (No
ts to hear that!)
0
23 to Sept. 22)
y quarrels or financial squabbles
y today. Guard against buying
ng because you feel obsessed
Instead, be prudent.
23 to Oct. 22)
the urge to play one-upmanship
yone today. It won't work
of an increasing tension build-

ing up today before tomorrow's Full
Moon in your sign. (You getthe picture.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You feel restless today, as if something
is nagging at you in the back of your
mind. Basically, the Moon is at odds
with your ruler, Plato. On top of this,
tomorrow is the Full Moon. (Time to
send out for dark chocolate.)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Avoid power struggles with friends,
especially females. If others want you to
change your goals or objectives, don't
do it - not today.
CAPRICORN
(De. 22 to Jan. 19)
Remain calm and collected today
because people definitely will notice
you. (And they're going to notice you
tomorrow as well!) Be aware of this.
(Jan. 2010o Feb. 18)
Arguments about politics, religion and
racial issues are quite pointless today
because they'll be too emotionally
heated. Zip thy ip.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Disputes about shared property, taxes,
insurance matters and wills might take
place today. It's far better to wait several
days before approaching these areas.
YOU BORN TODAY Some of you are
outgoing; others are shy. However, all of
you have high ideals and humamitarian
goals. You are truly altruistic. You help
those who are less fortunate than you.
You fight for their rights. In this way,
many of you are daily (albeit unsung)
heroes. You're very giving. Expect a
change this year, perhaps as significant
as something around 2001.
Biredate of Vivienne Westwood,
fashion designer; Betty Ford, first lady,
founded alcohol-treatment center; Katie
Sackhoff, actress.

CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
Last night, Councilmember
Leigh Greden (D- Ward 3) submit-
ted Amendment 8 to the proposal,
which would establish a maximum
building height limit of 120 feet in
the South University Avenue area
and 180 feet in the rest of the Dl
designated zones.
Mayor John Hiefjte proposed
that Greden's amendment limit the
building height in the principal Dl
zone to 160 feet instead of 180 feet,
which is approximately 14 stories
instead of16.
"We don't live in a large city, we
live in a medium city," Hieftje said.
"The needs of density can be estab-
lished with a 14 storybuilding."
Councilmember Tony Derezin-
ski (D-Ward 2) proposed another
amendment to the height limita-
tions of A2D2. Derezinski argued
to increase the height limit in the
South University Avenue area from
120 feet to 150 feet.
CouncilmemberCarsten Hohnke
(D-Ward5) supported Derezinski's
change, warning that a height cap
of 120 feet would limit downtown
development and send development
beyond core downtown zones.
After a long debate members
compromised to amend the height
limitations of A2D2 to 150 feet in
the South University Avenue area
and 180 feet in the remainder of the

Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftie speaks during the City Council meeting last night.

D1 zone.
Other controversial amendments
included the height limitof thebuild-
ings in the Dl area of East Huron and
the amount of setback spacebetween
the buildings in that area.
The next step of the approval
process for the A2D2 zoning chang-
es is a second reading and a public
hearing.
Originally scheduled to take

place on May 4, council members
decided to push back the second
reading and second public hearing
to June 1, in order to allow time for
the Planning Commission to review
last night's changes.
City staff is planning to update
the official A2D2 website as soon
as possible to inform the public of
last night's changes before the next
public hearing.


COLE
From Page 1
"I think he has a 50-50 shot at suc-
ceeding."
But Cole did not spare Obama
from his criticism either. He said
Obama's plan for a military build-
up in Afghanistan is misguided
because the United States's pres-
ence in the country won't help fight
the perpetrators of the Sept. 11
attacks.
Cole said one of Obama's speech-
es promoting the buildup contained
similar rhetoric to that of President

George Bush.
"I found that speech eerie - a
Bushification of Obama," he said.
Cole said U.S. government offi-
cials aren't the only ones to blame
for tensions between America and
the Middle East, claiming Ameri-
cans are aware of their govern-
ment's actions in Iraq.
"It is the United States that
turned Iraq into a hell hole," he
said.
Cole added that there is a "lack of
proportionality" in the way Ameri-
cans evaluate world events. He said
Americans see individual terrorist
aces in the Middle East as evidence

that the region is unstable. But he
said if the United States was evalu-
ated using a similar metric,America
would be considered unstable due
to the acts of violence in this coun-
try like the Oklahoma Citybombing
in 1995.
But Cole said people in the Mid-
dle East also hold misconceptions
about Americans. He cited a Leba-
nese book fair he attended last sum-
mer, which had more than 17,000
books, but less than two dozen were
related to America.
"I have long been annoyed that
they don't have books about us," he
said. "There's nothing."

V 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

*


8 - Tuesday, April 7, 2009

4

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Summers weighs options Fetter lone bright

4

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan hockey defenseman
Chris Summers has seen both ends
of the spectrum.
In this year's season opener, the
junior saw captain Mark Mitera
laying on the ice after a brutal col-
lision. Mitera's hopes of a spectacu-
lar senior season, were crushed by a
torn anterior cruciate ligament.
And on the other hand, Sum-
mers watched former Wolverines
Kevin Porter and Chad Kolarik,
who both played four years of col-
legiate hockey,lead Michigan to the
Frozen Four in 2008.
So for Summers, the Phoenix
Coyotes' first-round draft pick in
the 2006 NHL Entry Draft (No. 29
overall), the decision to stay for his
senior year could be a difficult one.
In October, Summers was ada-
mant that the decision to stay at
Michigan this season was easy.
"It's kind of a no-brainer," Sum-
mers said. "You come here to be a
student-athlete, and the 'student'
obviously comes first. It's never
been a question whether I would
stay or leave. I've always been dead-
set on staying."
That was before he saw Mitera
suffer his serious injury that kept
him out of all but eight games this
season. It was also before Summers
began assuming duties as the Wol-
verines' acting captain while Mit-
era was out.
Now, at the end of an eventful
season, Summers comes to decide
whether or not to jump to the NHL
a year early.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
seemed very optimistic last week
when discussing Summers's deci-
sion. He admitted first-round draft
picks can be flight risks, but he was
confident that Summerswas a Wol-
verine for the right reasons, which
include getting a Michigan degree.
"He's not just a hockey player
waiting for a phone call," Berenson
said.
Berenson reinforced his confi-
dence in Summers at the Michigan

spot on the mound
during Blue's slump

Junior Chris Summers, a Phoenix Coyotes first-round pick, will be a captain if he returns to the Michigan hockey team next year.
hockey banquet end-of-year Satur- this season. think he handled all that extremely
day when he named the defenseman "He's a guy that we envision in a well, and it was a wonderful experi-
Michigan's captain for next season. matchup role," Treliving said. "He ence for him to go through."
"Since having responsibility as a skates so well. He's mobile. He can Summers will have to make a
captain (this year), I think he feels play against good players. He can difficult decision. Berenson doesn't
more attached," Berenson said last eliminate time and space. Really, as usually appoint a captain unless
week. "The team needs him. He'll he moves forward here profession- he's sure the player is staying.
be our captain nextyear." ally, I really do see that as a role he And from what Summers has said
But although Berenson is confi- can and he's going to grow into. recently, the decision seems almost
dent Summers made up his mind, "In today's game, especially on finalized. Summers doesn't appear
Phoenix Assistant General Man- defense, the ability to be proactive in a rush to leave Michigan just yet.
ager Brad Treliving isn't so sure. and mobile with your feet and legs "I think (Berenson) says it best:
"Well, we've had some discus- allows you to defend more success- you're preparing for a life after
sions," Treliving said in a phone fully than the old days, where you hockey," Summers said Sunday.
interview with The Michigan Daily thought a shutdown guy had to be "There's more to the world than
yesterday. "We've had some dis- 6-foot-5." just skating onthe ice every day. It's
cussions with Chris and his rep- As impressed as Treliving was a game. It should be enjoyed. And
resentatives at the end of the year with Summers's on-ice performance I think that's what a lot of players
since (the Wolverines have) been this season, he seemed more inter- miss out on, that it should be fun.
eliminated (from the NCAA Tour- ested in his off-ice accomplishments "It's unfortunate that it turns
nament) to see what the plans were as the Wolverines' acting captain. into a business once you get to the
going forward. From handling the media, referees professional rankings, but that's
"We'll see over the course of the and teammates, Summers gained the way it is."
next little bit if, in fact, what his some unexpected experience.
desire is - whether it's to stay for a "Really, it's another layer in - Gjon Juncaj
fourth year or does he look at now's his development," Treliving said. contributed to this report.
the time he makes that step to pro "Being a guy that's looked upon to
hockey." set the tone for his group and be a For a full transcript of the
Treliving was impressed with part of the leadership group of that Daily's interview with
Summers's physical growth and team and pushing himself to be bet- Treliving, see http://thegame.
the overall maturity of his game ter and his teammates to be better. I blogs.michigandaily.com

Michigan
first-place]I
by just one
By TIM RO
Daily Sports
In the Michigan b
first game against P
Saturday, senior pitc
ter gave the Wolverin
pull out the win.
But the Wolverine
the offensive playsI
and lost 6-4 int10 inn
"I felt great," sai
gave up two earned r
strikeouts in eight
innings. "That
was probably the
best stuff I've had
all year. That's
why I just want-
ed to keep going
with it. There was
that inning there
when I gave up
three runs, cou-
ple of decent hits
in there and just
some plays that didn
That's baseball."
Fetter said it was
the starters in the
Saturday's doublehe
deep into the game, s
verines' bullpen has t
by injuries.
Junior pitcher E
went 7.1 innings inth
to get the 9-5 win for
Despite getting s
day before, the bullp
gled Sunday. Five rel
a total of 11 runs in a:
Michigan has alto
age of 9.6 runs in its 1E

ien play, The Wolverines went 2-3 in those
trails games, including a 14-13 win over
mid-major team Oakland.
Illinois But Fetter has a formula to end
the pitchingstaff's woes.
game "You have to establish that you
are going to throw strikes and keep
HAN the ball down in the zone," Fetter
Writer said. "We have a bunch of guys that
have been throwing decently. But if
aseball team's they're throwingstrikes, they're up
'enn State on in the zone = or they're not throw-
her Chris Fet- ingstrikes."
ies a chance to The Wolverines' inability to
throw strikes has been a major
s didn't make factor in their recent slump. After
Fetter needed starting the season 10-2, the Wol-
ings. verines are just 8-8 in their last 16
d Fetter, who games.
uns and had 11 Although Michigan (3-3 Big Ten,
18-10 overall) usu-
ally matches up well
against its competi-
"That was tion, Sunday'sgame
was the fourth time
probably the this year the Wol-
verines have lost
best stuff I've by more than eight
had all year. "Considering all
the guys we lost,
if you really think
about it, we've had
.'t go our way. to play some pretty decent baseball
to get to (18-10)," Michigan coach
important for Rich Maloney said. "That's part of
second leg of the journey when you have a lot of
ader to pitch new faces in the lineup."
tince the Wol- Although Michigan lost its series
been hindered against Penn State, the Wolverines
have a'3-3 Big Ten record and are
ric Katzman just one game behind conference
e second game leader Illinois. The Wolverines will
Michigan. face the Fighting Illini at home this
nome rest the weekend.
en still strug- "Reality is, as bad as this loss
ievers gave up was, and as bad as losing this
16-5 loss. series is, we're 3-3 and the first Big
wed an aver- Ten team is 4-2 and we're playing
ast five games. them," Maloney said.

4

4

4

4

MEN'S BASKETBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSIP
What home-court advantage? Tar Heels trump Spartans for NCAA title

DETROIT (AP) - There was a
team of destiny out there, all right.
It's the North Carolina Tar Heels,
and the final chapter of their story
was about as heartwarming as a
demo-
lition MICHIGAN ST. 72
derby. N. CAROLINA 89
Tyler
Hansbrough, Ty Lawson and
North Carolina won a national
championship a season or more in
the making, stomping out Michi-
gan State's isnniratinnal run Mon-

day night with an 89-72 blowout because their draft prospects
that wasn't even that close. didn't look so good. They also
Hansbrough scored 18 points, didn't want their college careers
Wayne Ellington had 19 and Law- to end on last year's embarrassing
son led all scorers with 21 and also loss to Kansas in the Final Four.
had a record eight steals - and That was a dud of a game in which
now they and Danny Green can they trailed 40-12 in the first half
all head to the NBA feeling good and Billy Packer was telling CBS
about their decision to return to viewers it was over.
school to bring home Carolina's This time, North Carolina led
fifth championship, and the sec- 36-13 around the time "Dancing
ond for coach Roy Williams. With The Stars" was starting on
All those upperclassmen, save another network. At least nobody
Hansbrough, came back in part knew how that one was going to

end.
"We've been working so hard
since last year when we fell short,"
said Ellington, named most out-
standing player. "I wanted to
redeem myself. We worked so
hard."
Michigan State (31-7) simply
never got any momentum. From
the start, it was clear there was no
way Carolina was losing control of
this one, no chance for the Spar-
tans to serve up that definitive ray
of sunshine and warm-and-fuzzy

smile for a state that's been bat-
tered by the ailing economy.
The Tar Heels (34-4) were
up 55-34 at halftime, breaking a
42-year-old title-game record for
biggest lead at the break and set-
ting the mark for most points at
the half.
"We handled injuries, handled
some losses" this season, Williams
said. "The youngsters standing
behind me are great, great young
men. I'm the luckiest coach in
America, I can tell you that."
This collection of NBA talent
was too much from wire to wire,
from the start of the tournament,
to the very end.
Carolina won every game by
double digits, something that
hasn't happened since Duke did

it in 2001.
Lots of basketball fans saw this
coming, including America's No. 1
Hoopster-in-Chief.
Yes, President Barack Obama
picked the Tar Heels to take it all
in his much-publicized bracket.
Magic Johnson, Michigan
State's Spartan-in-Chief, joined
Larry Bird at center court to pres-
ent the game ball, a tribute to
the 30-year anniversary of their
historic matchup and Michigan
State's first title.
From there, it was pretty much.
all "Showtime," all the time -
but not for Michigan State. Heck,
Magic didn't even stick around for
the end of the game. He was spot-
ted walking up the tunnel with 3
minutes left.

4

4


HOLY WEEK AT CANTERBURY HOUSE
Thursday, April 9th - e r
5:30 p.m. A simple Mediterranean meal
in commemoration of The Last Supper.
Thursday, April 9th - r t i T
e o 7:30 p.m. Screening of Daniel
Karslake's 2007 documentary that
explores the intersection between
religion and homosexuality in America.
Friday, April 10th - ' I'
5:30 p.m. Featuring a reading of the
Passion Gospel by the women of
Canterbury House.
Saturday, April 11th -
igii8:00 p.m. A culmination of the Holy
Week celebration, with fire-juggling and
the re-telling in scripture and music of the
whole salvation story.

Sylvia Plath:
eet the girl
behind the poet.

4

4

4

4

f


