SHOWCASE SWEEP ON THE
After a slow start, the Michigan hockey team
posted impressive wins against Minnesota and with its plansto elec
Wisconsin in the College Hockey Showcase. to the DPS Oversigh
SEE SPORTSMONDAY, INSIDE SEE 
4II 13ld4g an &IVi

Ann Arbor, Michigan
PATROLLING CAMPUS POLICE
Student seats
on oversight
cmte. to be
elected posts

Monday, November 30,2009

michigandaily.con

THE OPENING ACT

MSA president says
assembly made
mistake in past by
appointing reps.
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan Student Assembly
President Abhishek Mahanti said
the assembly's current practice of
nominating and appointing rep-
resentatives to the Department of
Public Safety Oversight Commit-
tee will soon be dropped.
The move comes a little more
than a week after independent
lawyers quoted in a Michigan
Daily article called into question
the legality of the nomination pro-
cess.
Mahanti said the assembly will
create a resolution in the coming
weeks to revise the MSA Compiled
Code, which will add an election
each semester for student repre-
sentatives to the Oversight Com-
mittee.
"We, as an executive board,
realize our mistake in not taking a
closer look at this Oversight Com-
mittee issue," Mahanti wrote in an
e-mail interview. "We've been pro-
active in using this opportunity to
learn from our mistake in regards

to our relationship with General
Counsel and to re-prioritize and
strengthen our Campus Safety
Commission."
Officials from MSA have come
under fire lately on two fronts with
regard to the DPS Oversight Com-
mittee - a body that was formed
in 1992 to meet state law and act as
a check on DPS, which was estab-
lished that same year.
First, an article published in the
Nov.16 editionof the Dailyoutlined
MSA's election process for student
representatives to the committee
- a process that independent law-
yers said may violate state law.
Then it came to light that MSA
officials had refused to meet with
a University professor who was
concerned about the legality of
election processes used to select
students, faculty and staff to serve
on the committee. MSA officials
defended themselves by saying
they opted not to meet with Prof
Douglas Smith after consulting
with the University's Office of
General Counsel, which advised
not to talk to him.
After learning about the situ-
ation at a Nov. 17 MSA meeting,
MSA Public Health Rep. Hamdan
Yousuf cautioned MSA's executive
board from "becoming just an arm
of the administration," according
to a Nov. 18 Daily article.
See DPS OVERSIGHT, Page 9A

The Boychoir of Ann Arbor performs on the steps of Hill Auditorium yesterday just before the Vienna Boys Choir took the main stage. The Ann Arbor-based singing
group, comprised of boys ages eight to 18, performs multiple concerts during the Christmas season. It's next is at First Presbyterian Church of Ypsilanti on Dec. 11.
RE-L A U NCHING MS A'S W E BSIT E
After some delay, MSA opts for
stop-gap to launch website soon

Officials say launch
was delayed due to
server problems
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
After four months and more
than $1,000 in Web develop-
ment costs, the Michigan Student

Assembly will make its new web-
site available to students by next
Tuesday, according to MSA Presi-
dent Abhishek Mahanti.
Mahanti, who made the new
website one of his central cam-
paign promises last spring, wrote
in a Sept. 25 e-mail to the student
body that the site would be up in
"the next few days."
"The website will be Wiki-
based, which allows different

committee and commission chairs
of MSA to have access to their
own pages, allowing for greater
transparency and accountability
in your student government," he
wrote. "We plan on opening this
framework to the entire student
body. It'll be called Michipedia,
and we think it will allow stu-
dents, faculty and staff to have
access to all Michigan-related
information at their fingertips. It

should be awesome."
Mahanti said in a recent inter-
view that MSA's Web team, which
consists of two hired develop-
ers making $8 per hour and a
small group of MSA representa-
'tives, completed the website in
the first week of October. But on
Oct. 6, when the current site was
replaced by a message saying the
new site would be up that day, the
See MSA WEBSITE, Page 10A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
A MSA elections begin today

Assembly's leaders
think new measures
will increase turnout
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily News Editor
Despite the notoriously poor
turnout in, Michigan Student
Assembly fall elections, MSA mem-
berssaytheyexpectincreased voter
turnout in this fall's election, which
began last night at midnight.
Last fall, 9.6 percent of the stu-
dent voting population took part

in MSA elections, while only 5.3
percent took part in the 2007 fall
elections.
Election Director Emily Win-
ter said she expects higher voter
turnout because of the competitive
nature of the election and quality of
representatives this semester.
"We have really competitive
elections this year, and some really
great candidates," she said. "And
the candidates have been cam-
paigning really hard this year and
getting out their messages."
This year, the MSA Election
Board collaborated with Informa-
tion Technology Central Services

to put a link to the voting website
- vote.umich.edu - on the desk-
top of each ITCS computer, some-
thing the Election Board has been
working to get for the past several
semesters.
Winter said she thinks put-
ting the link on each desktop will
increase voter turnout because
"it's a really easy way for people to
vote."
As in past years, Winter will also
send a campus-wide e-mail today
to remind students to vote. Addi-
tionally, individual candidates and
representatives will campaign and
See MSA ELECTIONS, Page 10A

TOKEHAN >HAKMAN/Daily
Packard Pub, a new bar at the corner of Packard and State Streets, is set to open in January, according to the pub's owner.
New bar to fill South Campus void

STUDENT START-UPS
Students start business to help
athletes make leap to the pros

Nearby residents
have mixed feelings
about new pub
By LILLIAN XIAO
For the Daily
For students living near the
corner of Packard and State, the
void of a late night watering hole
may soon be filled.
The owner of a new sports bar,
Packard Pub - set to open in Jan-
uary - says his brew house will
be a more convenient option than

his competitors up State Street.
The pub occupies what was
once Artisan Bistro, an organic
specialty cafai. The bistro closed
last December, according to Pack-
ard Pub owner Kyle Miller. The
property remained vacant until
Miller began renovations three
weeks ago, installing a bar that
runs against two walls of the pub
and adding high-tops, projectors
and wall-mounted plasma screen
TVs.
The venue includes two stories:
a lower level reserved for private
parties and an upper level for the
general public. Miller plans to

turn one of the walls of the bar
into a painted mural of the Big
House.
While construction is under-
way, Miller is awaiting the
approval of a liquor license, a pro-
cess which he says takes a mini-
mum of six months. If the license
is not granted in time for the pub's
opening, Miller plans to continue
the pub's launch as a "dry run" to
begin serving food.
Prior to opening Packard Pub,
Miller managed a restaurant in
Chesterfield, Mich., which he said
closed because of the economic
See PACKARD PUB, Page 10A

Brandon Minor and
Brandon Graham
form first client base
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffEditor
At the beginning of the year,
Michigan football players Brandon
Graham and Brandon Minor knew

they were likely to enter the 2010
NFL Draft. They also knew that
when the time came, they would
need a lot of help.
They knew they would have
to train for the NFL combine, an
annual event in which college foot-
ball players showcase their athleti-
cism in front of coaches, general
managers and scouts. But when it
came to the business side of things
- finding agents and managing

portfolios as well as numerous
other money-related issues - they
were at a loss.
That's where LSA junior Jordan
Klein and Business junior Daniel
Sillman came in. The two started
Compass Management Group to
help college athletes manage their
business affairs when they are
transitioning to the pros. Graham
and Minor are their first clients.
See START-UP, Page BOA


WEATHER HI:38
TOMORROW LO 33

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS,.......... ............2A ART.S.....................5A
The most influential songwriters of the past 3 years. Vol.CXX, No. 56 SUDOKU.. . . . 3A CLASSIFI EDS................A.....6A
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER '2009 The Michigan Daily DPINION..............4A SPORTSMONDAY................1B
michigundoily.comn


2A - Monday, November 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, November 30, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA DANNEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com

College in Penn. requires gym for obese

FANCY-FOOTED FRESHMEN

Administrators at Lincoln Univer-
sityinPennsylvania are receivingcrit-
icism over a policy thatrequires obese
students to take a.class to lower their
body mass indices before graduating,
according to The Lincolnian.
In 2006, the school created
"Fitness for Life," a program that
requires students with a BMI of
over 30 - which is considered
obese - to take a one credit gym
class before graduation, according
to Examiner.com.
With 24 students who still must
take the course in order to gradu-.
ate this spring, many students have
voiced opposition to the university's
involvement in what they see as a
personal issue, according to The Lin-
colnian. University officials say they
"are actively working to increase the
health of their students."
NORTHEASTERN U. CUTS
FOOTBALL TEAM
After five consecutive losing
football seasons for Northeastern
CRIME NOTES

University, University officials
have announced that the 74-year-
old program will be terminated,
The Huntington News reported.
A council of senior adminis-
trators, trustees, faculty, alumni,
donors and students made the deci-
sion, which has been under consid-
eration since 2007.
Northeastern Athletic Director
Peter Roby wrote in an open let-
ter in The Huntington News that
the university would need to spend
millions of dollars to keep the foot-
ball program running.
Football players at the school are
protesting the move. In a Hunting-
ton News article, Yaroslav Mukh,
a sophomore offensive lineman,
asks "why promise the kids that are
coming in here as freshmen that
they were going to definitely play
out their careers here?"
SOUTHERN COLLEGES SUED
FOR PRAYER IN CEREMONIES
Americans United for Separa-

tion of Church and State is suing
two South Orange County com-
munity colleges on behalf of stu-
dents, professors and graduates
for leading prayers during official
ceremonies.
According to the lawsuit, one
of the campuses, Saddleback Col-
lege, is accused of, among other
incidents, showing a video in a fac-
ulty training session that endorses
religion. The video ends with the
quote "only two defining forces
have ever offered to die for you.
Jesus Christ and the American G.I.
One died for your soul, the other
died for your freedom", accord-
ing to The Orange County Register
News.
Saddleback College profes-
sor Karla Westphal sparked the
lawsuit by contacting Americans
United for Separation of Church
and State and the American Civil
Liberties Union in 2004 after
finding the college's use of prayer
offensive.
- CHELSEA LANDRY

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
Lettersto the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Se.tion
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

office how: Sn.-Thurs. ita.ma. -2a.m.
news@m'icigandaiy.comn
eoreti'oi@',iiigatdaiy.cam
tothedaily@mchigandaily.com
photo@cigandaily.com
eartspage@michigardaily.com

sports@ ihigandaily.cee,
display@nhigandaily.com
cl iftedojcsigaodai l.com
onlineads@michigandaily.co
finance@m~ichigandaity.com

0i

Members of KDM, a Korean freshman dance group, practic
yesterday in the Mason Hall auditorium. They're preparing
for a performance in the Bursley Culture Show.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Purse snatched Items taken from Investment Anonymous
fromvehicle vehicle seminar HIV testing

WHERE: 1500 East Medical
Center
WHEN: Thursday at about 2:50
p.m.
WHAT: A purse was stolen
from a vehicle, University Police
reported. The vehicle was not
affiliated with the University.

WHERE: 1500 East Medical
Center
WHEN: Saturday at about 8:55
p.m.
WHAT:Personal items were
stolen from a vehicle, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

WHAT: A seminar to give an
information and advice about
employer-sponsored retire-
ment plans and personal sav-
ings accounts.
WHO: Center for the Educa-
tion of Women
WHEN: Today from 5:30 to
7:30 p.m.
WHEREV 10 E ibat

GPS stolen from Subjects ticketedS
Dodge truck for skateboarding Sustainability
WHERE: Lot NC-46 2700 WHERE: Lot N-8 900 Huron colloquium


WHAT: The Spectrum Cen-
ter offers free, anonymous
and needle-free HIV testing
each Wednesday.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from 6to
8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Chess club
WHAT: The Chess Club
practices each Monday eve-
ning.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Tonight from 7 to
9 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The Salahis - the couple
* who successfully broke into
President Barack Obama's
first state dinner - are trying
to sell their story to news sta-
tions for a fee in the mid-six
figures range, RCJ.com report-
ed. Michaele Salahis is trying
to get on the Bravo TV show,
"The Real Housewives of D.C."
The Michigan women's
volleyball team received
an at-large bid for the
NCAA Tournament. It's the
team's fourth in as many years.
>>FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY,
PAGE 1B
According to the Red
Cross, roughly 10,000
albinos are hiding in
Burundi and Tanzania, Africa,
CNN.com reported. Albinos
are killed for their limbs and
sold to witch doctors because
of a belief they have magical
powers that cause good luck.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
lacob SMiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDTORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Sksoe, Klean son
SSIT aT N oDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial PageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOIATEEDTORIA PAGEEDITORS:EniBaoaa erty,RachelVanGilder
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, [an Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chatntel Jennings, Gjnn Juncaj, Ryan
KBartje,aChris Meszaros,aRyan Podges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Whitney Pow
A SANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,David Riva,
ZacharyMeisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS: MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,Sam Wolson
AngelaChihand designomichigandaily.com
MaureeiStycb ManagingsDeigotditrs
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, AdiWollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozwiak SalesManager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: MollyTwigg
ARKBTINGkMANAGER: Michael chrotenboer
Ryan lasioski Classified Manaer
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The MichiganDaly(ISSN0745-967)ispubished MondaythroughFridayduringthefallandwinter
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is avalable free of charge to al readers.
AdditionaIcopiesmaybepickedupattheDairy'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
September, viaU.S. mail are $110. Winter term (January through Apri is $115, yearlong (September
through April)is$195.University affiates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
subscriptionsforfalltermmore$35.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichiganoaily isamemberof
The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0
0


Hubbard
WHEN: Friday at about 6:30 p.m.
WHAT: An unknown suspect
broke a window in a 2001 Dodge
Dakotaand stole a GPSUniver-
sity Police reported.

WHEN: Sunday at about 10:40
p.m.
WHAT: Three subjects were
ticketed for skateboarding and
trespassingon University prop-
erty, University Police reported.

WHAT: Assistant Prof. Nigel
Melville from the Ross School
of Business will discuss envi-
ronmental sustainability.
WHO: Erb Institute
WHEN: Today from 12 to
1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Ross School of
Business

MORE ONLINE
Love Croime NotesGetlmore online at michigandaily.com/blogs/thewire"


LRealLife
Are you ready?
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Spend a full day shadowing an alum and learn from the best. If
you're a junior, senior or a grad student, you could be selected for
an all-expenses-paid, one-day internship. The application deadline
is Sunday, December 6.
Here are the falL 2009 Michigan Apprentice opportunities:
* Senator Deborah Cherry, '76, is a Michigan senator
* Jordan Hymowitz, '90, is the managing member of Philadelphia Financial
Management of San Francisco, LLC
* Mike Miller, '96, is the head of the Google Ann Arbor office
" Andrew Humphrey, '92, is a Local 4 Emmy Award-winning meteorologist
" John Spain, '07, is the associate brand manager on the Ziploc brand
at SC Johnson
" Ernest J. Newborn II, '83, is senior vice president, general counsel
and secretary of USI Holdings Corporation
* Dr. Anthony Weinert, '93, is a physician and surgeon who specializes
in foot and ankle disorders and has a solo private practice
* Dr. Grant Baldwin, '94, PhD'03, is the director of the Division of
Unintentional Injury Prevention at the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control

0

0


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 30, 2009 - 3A

NEWSBRIEFS
TEGUCIALPA, Honduras
* Honduras hopes
to move past coup
with election
Hondurans yesterday elected a
new president whose first challenge
will be defending his legitimacy to
the world and ending a crisis over
a June coup that has isolated one of
Latin America's poorest countries.
Porfirio Lobo and Elvin Santos,
two prosperous businessmen from
the political old guard, are the front-
runners. But their campaigns have
been overshadowed by the debate
over whether Hondurans should
vote at all in an election largely
* shunned by international monitors.
The dispute has split Western
Hemisphere countries, and voter
turnoutcould determinehow widely
the next government is recognized.
The United States, hoping to
resolve its first major policy test
in Latin America, is defending the
election while leftist governments
allegeitwhitewashesCentralAmer-
ica's first coup in 20 years.
WASHINGTON
Senator says Afghan
forces, not US, key
to success
The leading Senate Democrat on
militarymatters said yesterdaythat
President Barack Obama's antici-
pated plan forsignificantlyexpand-
ing U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan
must show how those reinforce-
ments will help increase the size of
the Afghan security forces.
Sen. Carl Levin, chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee,
said that more Afghan army and
police are central to succeeding in
the 8-year-old war and more U.S.
trainers and equipment can help
meet that goal. But it's unclear,
Levin said, what role tens of thou-
sands additional combat troops
will play and Obama has to make
a compelling case during a nation-
al address he's scheduled to give
Tuesday night from the U.S. Mili-
tary Academy at West Point, N.Y.
"Thekeyhere is anAfghansurge,
not anAmerican surge," said Levin,
D-Mich. "We cannot, by ourselves,
win (the) war."
Levin's remarks are a preview
of the possible roadblocks Obama
faces from his own party as he pre-
pares to sell a broader, more expen-
sive battle plan for Afghanistan to
an American public weary of the
conflict that began just weeks after
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
GENEVA

Iran defies United Nations

Iran plans 1O uranium
enrichment facilities,
despite UN opposition
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) - Iran
approved plans yesterday to
build 10 industrial scale uranium
enrichment facilities, a dramat-
ic expansion of the program in
defiance of U.N. demands it halt
enrichment and a move that is
likely to significantly heighten
tensions with the West.
The decision comes only days
after the U.N. nuclear watchdog
agency censured Iran over its pro-
gram and demanded it halt the
construction of a newly revealed
enrichment facility. The West has
signaled itisrunningoutofpatience
with Iran's continuing enrichment
and its balking at a U.N. deal aimed
at ensuring Tehran cannot build a
nuclear weapon in the near-term
future. The U.S. and its allies have

hinted atnewU.N. sanctions if Iran
does not respond.
The White House said the move
"would be yet another serious vio-
lation of Iran's clear obligations
under multiple U.N. Security Coun-
cil resolutions and anotherexample
of Iran choosing to isolate itself."
"Time is running out for Iran
to address the international com-
munity's growing concerns about
its nuclear program," White House
press secretary Robert Gibbs said.
British Foreign Secretary David
Miliband described Iran's move as
a provocation.
"This epitomizes the fundamen-
tal problem that we face with Iran,"
he said. "We have stated over and
again that we recognize Iran's right
to a civilian nuclear program, but
theymustrestore internationalcon-
fidence in their intentions. Instead
of engaging with us Iran chooses to
provoke and dissemble."
On Friday, the U.N.'s Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency

issued a strong rebuke of Iran over
enrichment, infuriating Tehran.
Parliament speaker Ali Larijani
threatened yesterday to reduce
cooperation with the IAEA.
"Should the West continue to
pressure us, the legislature can
reconsider the level of Iran's coop-
eration with the IAEA," Larijani
told parliament ina speech carried
live on state radio.
Vice President Ali Akbar Salehi,
who is also Iran's nuclear chief,
said Sunday's decision was "a firm
message" in response to the IAEA.
He told state TV that the agency's
censure was a challenge aimed at
"measuring the resistance of the
Iranian nation."
Any new enrichment plants
would take years to build and
stock with centrifuges. But the
ambitious plans were a bold show
by Iran that it is willing to risk
further sanctions and won't back
down amid a deadlock in negotia-
tion attempts.

Police gather at the site where four police officers were killed in an ambush at
the Forza Coffee Co. near Parkland, Wash. yesterday.
Four police officers
killed at coffeshop

Police looking for
one male suspect in
'execution' of
Washington officers
PARKLAND, Wash. (AP) -
A gunman burst into a coffee-
house yesterday and opened fire
on four police officers as they sat
working on their laptops, killing
the three men and one woman
in what an official described as
a targeted ambush.
Pierce County Sheriff's
spokesman Ed Troyer said offi-
cers were looking for one male
suspect who fled the scene and
haven't ruled out an accomplice,
possibly a getaway driver.
Troyer said investigators had
spoken to a person in nearby
Tacoma, who gave informa-
tion that led them to believe the
gunman was on foot and still
near the coffee shop. Troyer
would not given any details nor
characterize that person in any
way, but said the information
led officers to carefully search
buildings close by.
It wasn't clear whether the
slain officers even had time to
draw their weapons to return

fire, Troyer said.
"This was more of an execu-
tion. Walk in with the spe-
cific mindset to shoot police
officers," Troyer said.
Troyer said the officers -
all from the Lakewood Police
Department - were catching up
on paperwork at the beginning
of their shifts when they were
attacked at 8:15 a.m. yesterday.
Troyer said the attack was
clearly targeted at the officers,
not a robbery gone bad.
"There were marked patrol
cars outside and they were all
in uniform," Troyer said.
With no known suspects,
there was no indication of any
connection with the Hallow-
een night shooting of a Seattle
police officer. The suspect in
that shooting remains hospi-
talized.
"We won't know if it's a copy-
cat effect or what it was until
we get the case solved," Troyer
said. "We don't even have a sus-
pect ID right now."
Troyer would not release the
names of the victims in Sun-
day's shooting. He said Lake-
wood has a small police force
and the deaths represent a loss
of 10 percent to 15 percent of the
department.


Y 4 t
c
f :i'.

'f
E w # f w-
fr F i Y
r f 1
ti

FOR RE TURNING STUDENTS?
UNIVERSITY WE WANT YOU BACK
HOUSING. y ise
Stockwell, Mosher-Jordan, www.options.housing.unich.edu
Northwood III, North Quad, and ...-.....-.. -.. -.. -- --.--.--.--.--..-.
more.all reserved just for you. r The Time of Your Life
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS


tootist
50I
P ieler
Cheek-ep


Swiss approve ban R
of mosque minarets

Swiss voters overwhelmingly
approved a constitutional ban on
minarets yesterday, barring con-
struction ofthe iconic mosque towers
in a surprise vote that put Switzer-
land at the forefront of a European
backlash against a growing Muslim
population.
Muslim groups in Switzerland
and abroad condemned the vote as
biased and anti-Islamic. Business
groups said the decision hurt Swit-
zerland's international standing and
could damage relations with Muslim
nations and wealthy investors who
bank, travel and shop there.
"The Swiss have failed to give a
clear signal for diversity, freedom
of religion and human rights," said
Omar Al-Rawi, integration represen-
tative ofthe Islamic Denomination in
Austria, which said its reaction was
"grief and deep disappointment."
KALAMAZOO, Mich.
1 EPA sets meetings
on two Kalamazoo
river cleanups
The U.S. Environmental Protec-
tion Agency has announced two
public meetings set this week for two
Kalamazoo River cleanup projects.
The Kalamazoo Gazette reports
the EPA will host a 6:30 p.m. meet-
ing Tuesday at the Comfort Inn and
Conference Center in Plainwell to
update the public on planned clean-
up activities and other developments
at the Plainwell portion of the Kala-
mazoo River Superfund project. Offi-
cials will take comments and answer
questions.
A Thursday night meeting will
review cleanup alternatives being
proposed by Millennium Holdings
Co. LLC, the responsible party in the
Allied Paper/Portage Creek/Kala-
mazoo River Superfund project. The
6:30 p.m. meeting will be held at the
Radisson Plaza Hotel and Suites in
Kalamazoo.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

UUuLaLlu

HPV Fact:
it is estimated
that e a
minutein t he
US, there, is a.
new case of
There's something you can do.
Visi your


Attend an information session.
Tuesday, December 1st
6:30 p.m.
U-M International Center, Room 9
800.424.8580 1 www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?


,


4A - Monday, November 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

74C e firIC4,6,gan +

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Elections expected
Students, faculty, employees deserve better DPS oversight
t appears that some leaders of the Michigan Student Assem-
bly don't understand the difference between appointments
and elections. Appointment is the method by which MSA
leaders have been choosing people for the Department of Public
Safety Oversight Committee and the assembly's Constitutional
Convention delegation. Election is the method that is required
per state law and MSA bylaws, respectively. But after weeks of
heightened attention to issues with the DPS Oversight Committee,
MSA President Abhishek Mahanti has announced that the assem-
bly will hold elections to determine student representation. MSA
must make sure such an election materializes, and the University
must push faculty and employees to establish similar procedures
for electing representatives to the committee.

aA you reaize you're C
How'd you get those cuts) 4 issing a horn.
6 Uh--gotangry after shaving a Tna
Uh-ah-shavag. Yeah and punched myself in heYeah, uh, ah..damn. Tiger
facemakes this look a lot easier
 aniti
~~ ~ ~ ~
AC& ^A A
1-71-- 8M 1----1111 11

Presuming guilt

efending his decision to give
civilian trials to five suspect-
ed terrorists, Attorney Gen-
eral Eric Holder
boldly expressed
his full confidence
that the govern-
ment had ample
evidence to convict
those men.
"Failure is not
an option," Holder
told the Senate IMRAN
Judiciary Commit- 5YED
tee on Nov. 18.
That was an
interesting state-
ment, and the sentiment it express-
es has been repeated constantly by
Obama administration officials and
other Democrats over the past few
weeks. That sentiment is problem-
atic, and it made me rethink my ini-
tial reaction to these five men being
tried in a civilian court as opposed to
a military tribunal.
On the campaign trail, President
Barack Obama promised openness
and justice on various fronts. The
most significant among his promises
was to close Guantanamo Bay, give
fair trials to those prisoners who can
be charged and properly treat those
who cannot. I was relieved to hear
that America would finally emerge
from the blind vanity that sanctioned
perpetual detainment of alleged mili-
tary combatants. We finally realized
America is better than that, and it's
time to prove that to the world by
having real, fair trials.
But when deciding whether to try
these particular terrorism suspects
in a military tribunal or in a civil-
ian court, the Obama administra-
tion missed the point entirely. In this
case, and under these circumstances,
military tribunals should have been
the obvious choice.
To achieve justice (uphold the
law, abide by the Constitution) the

prisoners must receive as fair of a But it's something else entirely in
trial as possible. There's arguably no the case of these five suspected ter-
greater element to a fair trial than the rorists. We may all know that these
principle of "innocent until proven people are guilty. But under no cir-
guilty." Even the brutally reaction- cumstances is it appropriate for a
ary post-Reconstruction Supreme prosecutor (which is what Attorney
Court agreed that the presumption of General Holder is in such cases) to
innocence is crucial to the Constitu- guarantee a conviction, which cre-
tion's exposition on the rights of an ates a scenario where no other out-
accused, as shown in Coffin v. United come is conceivable. It's never okay
States (1895). But it's clear from the for everyone to assume that a convic-
statements of those who support tion will happen, at least not if you
trying the five suspects in a civil- believe in fair trials.
ian court that they pay absolutely no
heed to this Constitutional concern.
Now, I'm not so naive as to think These suspected
that the presumption of innocence
is treated as God's word in the aver-
age criminal trial. I've read enough terrorists shouldn't
transcripts of jury selections and jury
instructions to understand that many go to e er court.
judges, prosecutors and jurors see the
presumption of innocence as a trivi-
ality - not a supreme declaration, but But such an assumption is integral
rather an inconvenience they must to the Obama administration's deci-
get around. sion to try the suspects in civilian
Potential jurors who are ques- court. Indeed, administration offi-
tioned during jury selection often cials have repeatedly defended that
espouse amusingly abhorrent notions decision by assuring everyone that
of the rights of the accused. "Why convictions will happen. That puts a
on Earth was he arrested if he is unique pressure on the federal court
presumed to be innocent?" jurors to convict, one that probably won't
might ask. Judges will repeat that matter but certainly shouldn't exist.
an arrest is not an indicator of guilt, A far better option would have
and neither is the fact that a trial is been to try the five men in a mili-
being held. But jurors will often give tary tribunal, a more controlled set-
a knowing smile and proceed to do ting where the accused have ample
exactly what they are told not to do rights and where improper political
- use circumstantial perceptions as pressure to convict is absent. We'd
part of their finding of guilt or inno- surely get a conviction in either type
cence. of court, but the one in a controlled,
This is a deep, perplexing prob- un-sensationalized military tribunal
lem. Anyone who disagrees should would be far more legitimate.
read the transcript from an aver- if the whole point is the integrity
age criminal trial to see what pa- of the process, then bringing these
try evidence jurors will convict on. suspects to a civilian court under
It's simply undeniable that they let these circumstances was absolutely
their preconceived notions about a the wrong decision.
suspect, his background or even the
nature of the crime undermine their - lmran Syed can be reached
mandated presumption of innocence. at galad@umich.edu.

0
0

DPS owes its existence to a 1990 state law
allowing four-year universities to estab-
lish their own police departments. This
law stipulated that universities that form
campus police departments must also set
up oversight committees with elected stu-
dent, faculty and employee representation.
But earlier this month, a special report
by the Daily discovered numerous prob-
lems with the DPS Oversight Committee,
including infrequent meetings and student,
faculty and employee representation that
failed to meet the expectations of internal
bylaws and state law. The student seats, for
instance, were simply being appointed by
MSA even though state law mandates cam-
pus-wide elections.
This process represented a gross misun-
derstanding of simple government terms.
It would be false to say that U.S. Supreme
Court justices are elected simply because
the entities that appoint and confirm them
were elected. This is a distinction that one
would not expect high school civics stu-
dents to struggle with, let alone college
students in an elected student government.
But even the University's General Counsel
- a body that consists of adult, professional
lawyers - foolishly reiterated this false-
hood when they dismissed University Prof.
Doug Smith's concerns with the committee
member selection process and told MSA to
do the same.
But regardless of how wildly these enti-
ties erred, fixing the selection process for
the DPS Oversight Committee should be the
current priority, and Mahanti's announce-

ment that MSA will hold elections for the
seats is a positive development. Now he
must make sure that the assembly follows
through and establishes a sustainable elec-
tion protocol. This shouldn't be difficult,
as the Daily reported today, such a proto-
col did indeed exist from 1992 until at least
1999. MSA must do all that it can to ensure
that students have consistent, legally com-
pliant representation on the committee,
because giving students a check on the
police department they interact with is of
the utmost importance.
But the student seats on the commit-
tee aren't the only ones in need of atten-
tion. The processes for selecting faculty
and employee seats are similarly broken,
though not to the same extent as the stu-
dent seats. The Senate Advisory Committee
on University Affairs and the University's
office of Human Resources - the respective
authorities for faculty and staff elections
- should immediately get to work improv-
ing their election processes. In SACUA's
case, that means holding annual elections
as the group's bylaws specify. In the case of
Human Resources, that means revamping
the process so both union and non-union
members can vote every year, instead of
every other.
And the University administration, for
its part, should prevent the DPS Oversight
Committee from collapsing into irrelevance
as it has over the last decade. Instead, it
should push for an empowered commit-
tee that improves the relationship between
DPS and the campus community.


The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
EWAN COMPTON AND PATRICK JULIUS
Deranged criticisms of Darwin

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Bulert en Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

University should consider
monorail system

ment a monorail. About 16,000 people per day
ride the monorail in Morgantown, W.Va. - home
of West Virginia University. Imagine a mono-
rail system in Ann Arbor: It may not be pretty,
but I think it would work efficiently. Setting up

TO THE DAILY: a Maglev train an:
In response to the article about new trans- would be too cool to
portation to North Campus (University officials
talk campus's transportation future at meeting, Jeremy Drager
11/24/09), 1 think the University should imple- EngineeringJunior

d calling it "the Maize-ly"
o control.

HARUN BULJINA

E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU

~jj, ~Wf fxr
TIP.- 5'

In last Monday's issue of the Daily, Ben Caleca wrote
a response to Ray Comfort's shenanigans regard-
ing "The Origin of Species" (Survival of the creation-
ists, 11/23/2009). It's important to note that his actions
weren't limited to our own campus: Comfort handed out
his augmented "Origin" at dozens of universities across
North America. We felt that Comfort got off too easy with
one essay of criticism, so we're here to offer more.
First of all, there are flaws with the campaign itself.
Handing out copies of "The Origin of Species" is a remark-
ably odd tactic that seems to be based on the idea that the
original words of Charles Darwin are important to evolu-
tionists in the same way that the original words of Jesus
would be to Christians or the original words of Muham-
mad would be to Muslims. This is blatantly wrong. Evolu-
tionary biology has advanced considerably since Darwin,
and false or immoral beliefs espoused by Darwin do noth-
ing to undermine the credibility of the Modern Synthesis.
If Darwin made errors about heredity and held racist
beliefs, so much the worse for Darwin. But evolution still
happened, and natural selection was still the primary
force. One might as well publish a version of Isaac New-
ton's Principia Mathematica with a preface saying, "See?
Newton didn't know about the Big Bang and thought
women were inferior to men! This proves that gravity is a
lie!" This is the level of scientific argumentation to which
Ray Comfort has reduced us.
Like most creationist farce, Comfort continues his
assault on evolution with statements that are at best
highly misleading and in many cases outright false. Most
significantly, Comfort blurs the distinction between
mutation and natural selection, a distinction which is
absolutely critical to evolution. He cites evidence that
mutation is random and non-directional, and then tries
to make it sound like this implies natural selection is ran-
dom and non-directional. This is patently false: Mutation
is random, natural selection is non-random and evolution
requires both. This is the sort of elementary error that
could have been corrected by reading the Wikipedia arti-
cle on "Natural selection" or skimming the introduction
to any textbook on evolutionary theory.
Comfort also quotes out of context.,He quotes Darwin
about the complexity of the human eye, but fails to men-
tion the subsequent paragraph in which Darwin explains
this complexity in light of evolution. Comfort quotes
scientist Stephen Jay Gould several times as challeng-
ing Darwinian evolution, when in fact Gould devoted his
entire career to supporting Darwinian evolution. Simi-
larly, Comfort cites anthropologist Roger Lewin as criti-
cizing macroevolution when Lewin has written several

books defending macroevolution, especially the evolution
of human beings from apelike ancestors. Comfort cites
the Archaeoraptor hoax as if it undermines the huge body
of evidence found since then on other feathered dinosaurs
like Shuuvia, Sinosauropteryx, Sinocalliopteryx, Yixia-
nosaurus and many others.
Comfort even quotes biologist Richard Dawkins -
yes, Dawkins - as if he was supporting creationism. One
might as well quote Ken Ham, founder of Answers in
Genesis, in support of evolution.
Worst of all, Comfort makes a disingenuous and
inflammatory association between Darwin and the Holo-
caust. He asserts that Hitler was Darwin's "famous stu-
dent," when in fact there is no evidence that Hitler had
even read Darwin and substantial evidence that Darwin
would never have supported anything like Hitler's geno-
cide. Yes, Hitler used (and abused) evolution to support
his claims. The Nazis also used a bastardized version of
germ theory to support their agenda. By Comfort's stan-
dards, this ought to discredit modern medicine. Hitler
also believed the Earth revolves around the Sun - does
that make heliocentrism immoral?
Comfort suggests that readers Google the phrase
"Social Darwinism," as if the mere use of the word "Dar-
winism" implies that such policies are a direct conse-
quence of Darwinian evolution. Just as Christian Science
is neither Christian nor scientific and the Democratic
Republic of Congo is neither democratic nor republican,
Social Darwinism is hardly social and scarcely Darwin-
ian. Social Darwinism was nothing more than an attempt
to graft modern scientific authorityontoracial prejudices.
Indeed, traditions of racism, misogyny, ethnocentrism
and anti-Semitism have existed in European society for
centuries. Such views can be found in the writings of
the Christian philosopher Thomas Aquinas, some 600
years before Darwin (we might say 600 BD). Tremendous
acts of brutality against groups of people were commit-
ted by Julius Caesar (1900 BD) and Genghis Khan (700 *
BD). Christians engaged in acts of violence against other
groups during the Crusades (600 to 800 BD) and the Con-
quistadores' invasions (100 to 400 BD). Where were the
"Judeo-Christian values on the sacredness of human life"
that Comfort describes in his publication in these cases?
Depraved bloodshed has been part of human history
from the beginning. We can no more blame Darwin for
the Holocaust than we can blame Newton for rape or Ein-
stein for murder.
Ewan Compton and Patrick Julius are officers of the
University chapter of the Secular Student Alliance.

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 30, 2009 - 5A

Miniseries mix-up

"I think there may be a mole in our ranks."

Fantastically foxy

iniseries are like small-screen
purgatory: They don't quite
have the heavenly aura of the
everyday TV show nor the demonic dullness
of most made-for-TV
movies. This puts them
in a generally awkward
position for viewers
and critics alike. If a
miniseries succeeds,
people complain there
wasn't enough content
created. If it fails, people JAMIE
complain it took up too BLOCK
much prime air time and
should havebeen a telefilm. Either way, the
miniseries leaves something to be desired.
This is no fault of the works themselves.
Rather, it's the fault of the misclassification
of miniseries into other genres for the pur-
poses of criticism.
Two of my favorite miniseries of the
moment are "The Lost Room," a then-SciFi
Channel original starring Peter Krause
("Six Feet Under") and the recent remake
of "The Prisoner" on AMC starring Ian
McKellen (the "Lord of the Rings" films)
and Jim Caviezel ("The Passion of the
Christ"). The latter is particularly fresh in
my mind, as Gandalf and Jesus shed those
former roles to duke it out in a power strug-
gle for a village that may or may not even
be real. "The Lost Room" concerns the
contents of a motel room, all of which have
gained supernatural powers after an unex-
plained universe-altering incident. Both
are strange head trips. Both are incredible.
But both were panned by most critics.
Now, my taste may not always be per-
fect. But disagree with me twice, shame on
you, critics. I know in my heart of hearts
that these miniseries are fantastic, artful,
original works. They are impressive in
their sheer scale, great production value,
excellent casts and innovative premises
that set them apart from most things on
TV. To put it simply, they're just plain good.
So something must be going on here. How
are some of the greatest critics, on which
this nation relies to maintain its cultural
fortitude, so very, very wrong? I say it's a
matter of background.
Regardless of whether or not Iam (some-
how, miraculously) incorrect about these
two miniseries in particular, criticism of
miniseries needs to be re-analyzed. Itis
unlikely that most TV critics are adequately
qualified to review movies (see my review
of"Up" to gauge for yourself) and equally
uncertain that film critics could review TV.
They are differentmedia, each withaspects-
that critics of the other aren't as likelyto

consider. But what is a miniseries if not a
hybrid of the two? A miniseries is, essential-
ly, too much of a film for the TV critics and
too much of a TV show for the film critics.
For instance, one of a TV critic's main
questions is thatof sustainability. The critic
must assess not only the show's quality on
an episode-by-episode basis, but its ability
to carry on smoothly through multiple epi-
sodes. With a miniseries, this isa mootpoint.
The film critic, on the other hand, is not
trained in such matters as the cliffhanger.
Also, cinematography is incredibly differ-
ent on a movie than it is on a TV show, and
miniseries here tend to again strike a mid-
dle ground. You have the grand panning
shots often reserved for film mixed with
the casual-feeling character chase shots of
a traditional sitcom or drama.
In recent history, the miniseries that
have garnered the most critical acclaim are
those on the more cinematic side. HBO in
its infinite infallibility has created some
of the most highly praised miniseries
of the past 20 years. "John Adams" and
Gandalf vs. Jesus in
television purgatory.
"Empire Falls" both come to mind as hype
machines. They were all over the Emmys,
and ads for the latter were plastered all
over my home town of Washington, D.C.
But we shouldn't just let HBO continue this
domination over miniseries. As HBO says,
"It's not TV. It's HBO." Well HBO, minise-
ries are at least partially TV, and should be
critically assessed as such.
It seems necessary to create some hybrid
critics, or perhaps some particularly spe-
cialized ones. It takes a combination of
both the TV and film disciplines to accu-
rately judgea miniseries. Or, we can sim-
ply have critics whose sole domain is the
elusive miniseries, but why anybody would
go for a career in reviewing one of the least
frequently produced art forms is a ques-
tion with nogood answer. I'm not saying
that a TV or film critic can't be right about
a miniseries -I think our review of "The
Prisoner" on the arts blog, The Filter, was
quite accurate - but to avoid any critical
mishaps, we should train a new generation
of miniseries critics for the future.
Block is tearing down old 'John Adams'
ads. To help hirmfight thegood fight,
e-mail him at jamblock@umich.edu.

Wes Anderson's Dahl
adaptation will charm
adults, befuddle kids
By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
Wes Anderson's "Fantastic Mr. Fox"
is a triumph in auteurism that can be
attributed to the imagi-
native quirkiness of
its creator. Seasoned
Anderson veterans can Fantastic
expect a familiar the- Mr. FOX
matic emphasis on the
inportance of family, At Quality 16
diversity, honesty and and Showcase
community, all pre- 20th Century Fox
sented with the aid
of an unconventional
animated medium that lends value and
originality to the "Rushmore" director's
repertoire.
"Fantastic Mr. Fox" is an adaptation
of the classic children's novel by Roald
Dahl (famed author of "James and the
Giant Peach," "Charlie and the Chocolate
Factory" and "Matilda") that details the
misadventures of the aptly named Mr.
Fox (George Clooney, "Burn After Read-
ing") and his wife Felicity (Meryl Streep,
"Doubt"). The catalyst that moves the
story forward is Mr. Fox's kleptomania,

which that drives him from his house in a
tree to steal poultry and hard cider. Farm-
ers Boggis (newcomer Robin Hurlstone),
Bunce (newcomer Hugo Guinness) and
Bean (Michael Gambon, "Harry Potter
and the Half-Blood Prince") get wise to
his schemes and embark on an obsessive
quest to kill Fox and his cohorts.
The movie is fascinating in the way it
applies the moststaple elements of Amer-
ican culture and modern science to the
life of a fox with such absurd humor. This
facet of Anderson's style is often applied
to his characterizations of Fox and his
peers. For example, Mr. Fox is always
demanding that his possum friend Kylie
(Wallace Wolodarsky, "The Simpsons")
use hand signals to indicate he's pay-
ing attention because his vacant pos-
sum eyes show no emotional reaction to
Fox's earnest diatribes. The use of stop-
motion animation in "Fox" - though by
no means unprecedented in the world of
filmmaking - is executed in a particu-
larly wonderful way that has never really
been done before. The dialogue is a witty
hodgepodge of highbrow discourse and
vulgar euphemisms. In short, it's a quint-
essential Anderson film with the wel-
come addition of stop-motion animation
and children's themes.
On that note, one prominent criticism
of "Fantastic Mr. Fox" is its complete fail-
ure to pitch its inherently adult humor
to the proper demographic. Though the

auteur's childish, lighthumor is designed
to win over even the coldest and most
cynical of intellectuals, the context in
which it's presented will only befuddle
the young audience for which the movie
was intended. For example, the literal
use of the word "cuss" as a stand-in for
any and all swearing in the dialogue
betrays the innocence of a child, but
what child will understand Fox's refer-
ring to his dilemma as a "complete clus-
tercuss?" Furthermore, the grotesque
nature of the stop-motion animation and
the unflattering close-ups of the char-
acters seems to be deliberately tailored
to incite a child to scream rather than
laugh. One could almost assume this is
Anderson's way of biting his thumb at
the conventional expectations of chil-
dren's book adaptations.
Misdirected marketing aside, this film
is familiar Wes Anderson fare: a movie
about the perils of the young genius,
intended for the young genius. It's not
afraid to deal with the restlessness and
machismo of the American husband while
also exploring the unbridled (yet inno-
cent and well-intentioned) motivations of
youth. "Fox" is a relevant, timeless com-
bination of 20th century values and 21st
century quirkiness
that's guaranteed [r
to please. That is, so
long as you leave your
kids at home.


W"HAT'S NEW
ON THE DAILY'S
ARTS BLOG:
* It's the same old song, or
fuck Ingrid Michaelson: Fine
Arts editor David Riva lists his
picks for the best singer/songwrit-
ers of the past three years.
* 'Jon & Kate plus 8' equals
over: TV/New Media editor Caro-
lyn Klarecki says goodbye to the
twins and sextuplets that made up
TLC's primetime guilty pleasure.
* President Obama gets his
game on: Senior arts editor Jamie
Block wishes he were a library so
he could get a free PlayStation 3
and a copy of 'LittleBigPlanet.' Oh,
and you could win lots ot money.
Check it all out at
http://michigandaily.
com/blogs/the%20filter
SMALL SCREEN,
BIG HEART.
WRITE FOR
 DAILY TV/NEW
MEDIA
E-mail join.arts clumich.edu
for information on applying.

The
MCAT
10 Point - Avg Score Increase "
12 Point -Top Quarter Increase
105 hours live insruction
5 expert instructors
800-2Reiew IPrincetonReview.com
Corner of S. University & S. Forest
SH- .M K1

H PV Fact:
Your boyfriend
can't get
screened for
HPV-wwthe virus
that causes
gTenita wart s
There's something you can do.
Vst your campus
health center.





6A- Monday, November 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

PARKING
PARKING AVAIL CENTRAL Cam-
puIs, near B and Law Shaoal 734-222-
9033. jmsprop @,sbcglbal. net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
AUTOMOTIVE
1993 PONTIAC GRAND) Am Se
***RDCD**
Sprty, dependable ride $995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.cm
1994 J EEP CHEROKEE 4x4
RanIs great. $2495
810-229-975 www.cuas.cum
1995 OLDS CUTLASS Spreme
LOW MILS. Loks & runs great
$2995 10-225-9750 vwws.ctmas.em
1997 CHEVY CAVALIER 4 dor
**REDUCED**
A~tomnatic, runs great $2995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
197 CHEVY MONTE Carlo
Sharp taking, runs great $3995
80-225-9750 www.ctnascum
1997 PONTIAC MONTANA Vou
Depedabe Traspotatiots$1995
It10-229-9750 svsw.eaunas.coto
1998 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
****REDUCE'D'*
Flexsfet egie Shrp okitg $1695
810t-229-9750) www.ctmas.eontt
290 FORD) EXPLORER XUF AWD
Xtra clanRISttsgreat $5995
810-225-9750 www.cttas.cott
2001 DOIDGE DAKOTA X-cab 44
$6999 Like new, loaded 44
810-229-9750 www.ctmtas.cotm
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
FOR RENT
5 BDRM lhoses Avail Fall 2010:
717 Dewey: $2750/to, 833 Brown:
$2750/mo, 930 Dewey: $2900/too0. Clt
Loas at 6t0-952-5269 or enail
lotisbreskna~tyaoo.cm
1 BEDROOMS $65-$765 and 2 bed-
rooms 840-985
Available August 27tt, 2010.
We ffer flly frnished apartment
at nu extra est!
Fr ore itfo catl 734-662-4446 or visit
wan .issaproperiescotv
3 BDRM Aps n East U.!
ttn. thighs ceilings, lhardwood 1r,
deck ott bsck. son site parkig, heal &
water inl. Iepper Prpeties 10-231 -
0229. owoN.antcatpastaousirg.cotn
14 B1)RM ouse. May '10. Mary Ct.
IM ldg. Prkg. $2290. 45-399-9904.
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
leftSEr net ye'r - NO MONEY
D3OWN till 2010. Sigr by 13c. 1. Al-
ness, Frnrised, 2 blocks Fromt Central
arnpts, alt Utilities included, pr-per-
srrttcontracts. 734-998-4410.
www.eeventttts.comn
921 PACKARD, Fal '10 3 story. 5
64cm hltsrce Er 6. Frrrttsed, 3 fll bt,
I kichen, dry, rg. 7341 272-1320.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrr.
trncl. Feat/Waer/Parking
osswfl IUAAcotu 996-4992.

R EALT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Hooes
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
61] Church (Brand New)
1021 EB University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard
5U7 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jeterson
335 . Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 . Forest (8Br)
1130 . Forest (9 br)
1619 . University (9 r)
1014 Vaughn (11 r)
" only $4B0 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
",e, a!nnPiZa '11m6-e
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtycocom
6-8 Bedroom Large Hoses!
214 Pakard, 710 MKinley, 712
MeKinley, 229 White St. & 1237
White Stree. -Close to catpus. Ern.,
ree on site Indry & pkg. Hardwood
frs, open baseren, fenced irt yards.
Pleppers properties. 8 10-231-0229.
www.umcaniprsOISig.cnm
WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
Ote bdrmn. large 50 sq 0l, 6-level.
$765/muo, furnised option. Eail
ifo~vssapropenties.con or visit
www.issaproperties.cotu
or call 734-662-4446.
" BEAUTIFUL HOMES
6 and 7 bedrosrs Near Campus, 8 mo1
lease. APPLY NOW fr Aug /Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laudry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat autic.edsv,
www.nancylat.cotm
!CAR LSONPROPERTI ES.COM!!
is finished leasing fr 2010. Land-
lords all 734-332-6000 fr assistane.

Luxurious 6 Bedroom,
2 Bath, Bi - Level Apartment
616 Monroe D

$100 FREE CASH with every
NEW Reervaion.
endu on December 2,2009
Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink -with
any new tour!
TVoted es
Apartments in
MM 2009 by
ichigan IDail!
ON CAanpu, FURNEDau~
Sf UDIOI12 & 3 BrriatODMS
CI8APERAND MUCPI
BETTER THAN TH DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO MDE UP
Contact nsfon' a
tour- today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 4104
734-76-268o
UNIX' R~ftA'OWEIRS-M.COt
IUniver ity
:owm6
IAVAILABLE FALL 210!!
15 Chrh- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B Sool.
Beautiful, epansive spces, closets ga-
lore, furised/ufumised., ltdry, free
prkg, free eat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtccg/,yabo.coto
www.curcstretrentals.con
!CORNER HOUSE APS It 2 & 3
bdrts lts of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & mub uore
741-9300 mtrarborapanmetts.net
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kiten. Must see! (313) 215-115.
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrt. spaciots apt. Ecelet,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
* 'Fully Furnished
"*'Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
'Vartesy 1vto
734.761.8000
www.primeh.com
uau3 BORM TR-.EVE."'* avail.
May. Hardwood ftoors, fully furnised,
waserdryer and carprt. 741-93011
wwwauarboraparmettsnet
nOCARRIAG;E HOUSE** NEXT
to CC L-ittle. 2 & 3 bdrrns witr 1.5
baths, Clat screen v, diswaser, red-
ern furniture & private balcoy. 741-
9300 www.anarborapartmetrs.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, ~arge 3
bdrm. ouse. Walkig distace from
campus. 945 Woodlawt. Cotrtact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL 200 HU(E 2 Bdrru

Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Batbs,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1 599/ron. 734-665-8825.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Btty?
Chteck oat all of tlte available proper-
ties for sate intt ire area.
www.fSelIA2.com 734-476-9768
FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Locatton Bent
7 5 10 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 419 N. State $3600
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2900
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
CAPPOIDEINCO
734-996-19911

Just $4,599.00!

Spacious Penthouse with
all new amenities including
marble bathrooms, central air
conditioning, granite itchens with
2 retrigerators, and laundry and
parking onosite.
Campus Realty
1335 South University
Ann Arbor Ml 48104
Tel: 1734) 665-8825
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheaper and
MUCH Better than the Dorms! Don't
lose $100 CASH, ask LItS1roW to get it.
Check ttS Out and get a FREE Burbble
Island drink with any new' tourr! We
rave Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedrorn furr-
nished aparments available far Spring
/ Fall. Call LIrS at 734-761-2680 for your
appointmrents.
www.UniversityTowers-MIeutn
WWW.800FULLERCOM
(734) 769-75211
1 & 2 bdrra., tandemn, clean. quiet
tutun walk. Free Wi-Fi.

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
1GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
$10t crdan
FREE slUNCH!T
1 . COURYARSet
18 Ir adwa 1761994 80
www vutiltisInuedvncs
Full aps r ilrFurnished, tr e
t InhUnitis dilaslerie ter!
skwr ouanres!v
150 a ikftgeai.rfectorn 4
'FS T DFNTERR-AE: 181 5EFor
enoughefouta nar l /bgreauifm
'54 CHURH SBe2&r4odrms hi
levels, a sityg nan-bdrvs tformTepr
,ier oTapan & Oay~ftmitad,brige 2-ed-
roorts w/ dnewakstesisscandegreatbt
we ,mstie irnindparking.oe nl
'BrsPRs 09BadIus
515Wve, georsaps. n a cod4an
files. You'ved Cgot to ee hee
esdhu, 2bdsunn, &4bdrn valrg
kicent ihth.et
Fal3lHURC S&:2 &e drpts-
sht oingoarkmeinetaforahis o-
2-D PARTMAEN 48T aiablein
ieoapa& sOakdowdofhUgif Mbuspma
Fullers! ned ea atrund park-
inegorgessded . veisoetody. aCan-
pisn Mardgwsod 734-663410.celns
2i-plS B ouRM e APtS.tVAIL FALL2e!
4tdo BDR i-leve4 bnaveraiwnlv.
iRs.Le ithde mkth els15ts
Fully t 1sr &s2edba d a shinr! 71
93110wwwinrmrora etion:
avil oncentraltmmpris. 741-9300
wwwJanrborAPARMENilbleti

0*11e awd00"
20 Locations to Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Contrl Campus Downtown
North Campus Wet Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenane Staff
On-Site laundry
Exerise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Intrnt
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.nnrborpartments.net
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locatins 1018 Church, 1020
Church. 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Want and 52 oter locatins).
Thoroughy updated. Please check
michigantrentalcom or clt (734) 26-
721 5.
5 BDRM. FALL 21. 530 S. Furth.
2 bath. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 mn. walk
to Union. $2450 + ui. 734-709-579.
1029 VAUGHN*
6 BDRM + STUDY
3 BATHS, $4200
MAY 2010
COPN PROPERTIES*
734-663-5609
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on he corer of
Chires and S. University above
Amners. Entire building ias been com-
pletely renoveted. Cmpetely Fur-
nished (leather coches!), H Iuge Clos-
ets! Washer amd Dyer in unit, Granite
CounterTops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May amd Fall
2010 665.0-$785.00/muunth per per-
son itt, 6 roommates. Limited nu-
er of uiits remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tur
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE 7 bed-
roomn at $491. 2 bedroom at $74 w/ 2
moths firee. Clt Now! 734-663-8463.
Studio & I
Bdrmi. Union
Tower Pla. Codomiium
734-663-1530
6 BED)ROOM, 3 batroms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, fll size
wshr/dryr icluded amd on site parking.
On Chusrh St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Curcrh Street Apart-
m ents tIC. 734-994-0644.
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. fan.
aps. 402 Hilt St. & 1313 . State.
Edry. free ati & prkg. 734-904-6735.
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-in garage. Cathedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1 10/m.
734-516-4291. gsnnerb7@ao.cum

Sp.21

#1 Beda
6
5
4

Location Rent
1122 5. Forest $3600
1120 5. Forest $3000
715 Catherine $2300

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Screwdriver 40 Bun name in ete 54 Frenc Revolution
1 Vikings liqur tracks journalist
quarrack Brent 4 Classic thesaurus 41 Gutter's gnatl 5 olden _
6 Recipe amt. 5 Barelp make, as 42 Pat into service seniorectizens
1O saeus-7us NBA a liing again 56 Full of the latest
venter Tharmond 6 Gang and 47 Dwarf who needs happenings
14 Former Apple 7 Often furrowed tissues 88 Stoching hue
laptop facial teatare 48 Big name in 58 Shaving get
15 Eurasian 8 Identical to, with small planes additive
boundary river Sthe"11 49 Day to pat altl u0OSpylish '60u Brits
18 Eapel 9 Checkered your eggs issune 85 "You're iO" game
17 Marsh grass pantern hashet 62 'The nimpuans"
18 Italia's capital 10 Biblical helmsman 52 Pop ingr avino nquisheo teler
195"Ihllhe there 11 Roaa's home
in 12 Prutmoch creator's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Shedmsme monogram J A M E S I I E S C A P EI
pounds 13sAbbr. coering A DA PTOR A T EDI RIT
23 City square unlisted items
memrial 21lFamine'snopposite W I L 0N5 0OTH E RE
24 Suffiwith Gatnr 2Beginning, S A T 0 R I R5 E P E T 0 N
25 Some NFL intormally MtE Z Z050P R ANO0
blockers 26 keans toone side M A L E I S V EE
28 Begins 27 Wadethrnugh A B A PAPIERDOL
31 Woodsy ruste the shallows U j IEERITREA
33 Bear: up. 28 Pep ralypyell
38 Logger's ot] 30 Insigniicant one 5PCCTAITI0 R 50YA5
37 Either ottwo 32 WWII BriEt.fiters H S
Moudesto-based 33 Schinderntof C TA CA R10 TE
vintner brothers "Schindef's List" E N E R R UI 0 A N T A S
38sDivide earnings 34 Former veep ~ ~ 6~I C E 5T U
equally Agnew T 5 AR YE A RNE R
43 Fella 35 Classic hup-and-
44 CharlotenofThe dog Disneytfim H 0 5 T E 5 S A L L C G 8 0I
Facts of Life" 38 Actress Lupins umosdedito@ant.cnm 11S/29/0
45 Fireplace residue 1 2 3 a'5 _ o 9 1 11121
46 Ancient
ndo-Eurpean 1a s_5s1
47 "Blue" evergreen _
50 Fish-t-he 17 '8 19
51 Topeka is its cup.212
53 Mariner
57 Talk tathe 24 aa a26an127
answering
machine 2 0 3
81 Post-shower
powder 33 3a 35 36 3
63 Mone t a Realtor-41 2
14 Scanter, us seed 38 u n aso
e5 Impressinnist Taa4445
86 Former Lacoste
partner an64 14as149
67 Draws closer
68 Ashram advimor 5usin 3 64 55 6
89 Caustic fluids
70 ..-crufssv 57 5 96
DOWN634
1 Dukes in honing 66un67
gloves
2 Pound :coner an9us7e
une's route,
cop-style Bytn artoarriso 1/00
ic)2091rstbunMdiaSecsn n..1/

Copi Properties
734.663.5609
10 BI)RM HOUSE 433 I taimittomi
10 BDRM house 217 N. Itugalts.
.u-ptaces.com 734.478.2936.
10 BED HOUSE Beauutifult home lo-
cated an S. University less thans a5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing. fatty'furisished, Nice kitchsen with
dishuashrer, laundry mrs site. Call
734-995-92001 for a tosir or ninail
ctraband~a),arch realty co.cain
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Thnree bedroomn house, two car garage,
smnronin, formral during moorn, dish-
washier, hardwoodflhoorintg, ceramic
bath, full basemeist w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fairs
and/or FMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
5F&4 DMHOUSES
FOR 2010
OIPROPERTIES
73-6-69
2 & 3BDRM APARTMVENTS avail-
able for Fall 20111 915/919 Southr Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of FHoover
aud sousitof Benjamin, across fl-amaEt-
hel Field, Furishsed. Heat&Water its-
eluded, F ree smsine tParking, Laumndry
Facilties, Balconys. I BD-$840
2 Bt-41 100, 3BD-$h 750, Spacious
Bedrooms and Livinsg Room. To seined-
ile a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-78301, erinail-
A 2matrugement(6i)corricast. net
CRAWFORD HOUSE
sUssiry .5 bedrooms 2 bath apt available
'rime Location! Free parking!
$3999/inn. 734-665-8825
www.campuusrealty.com
7 BDEM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
Country Charm
Cit Convenience
Immediatbe
Openings!
SPACIOUS 1, 2, & 3
BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
* urrently gs t -cokinrrs &r, hot Wairs iuncud
'r Childrenr & ptsI cn l
'Minus todowntw,ra i sos unir e rsriiesu
*'hur emgncymas~inace
incoume. Equit shrsanefroma8080-985which
increase in value thelngetr yresid inthe coop-
erative.nT~he haes arundable npnmmuvmnt.
Forest Hills Cooperative
2351 Shadowood-lrive
o Ann Arbor sr t n

0

.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 30, 2009 - 7A

. Like a failing Stone

A sappy'Family'reunion

How Rolling Stone
sold out and
broke my heart
By JEFF SANFORD
DailyAssistantArts Editor
It's over.
I'm not certain what the final
straw was, exactly. It could
have been this summer's Adam
Lambert (that asinine "Ameri-
can Idol" runner-up) issue. Or
maybe it was the utterly useless
Megan Fox cover that did me in
(although she was pretty hot,
if I may say). Or perhaps it was
the special, Tiger Beat-ish Jonas
Brothers edition ("72 pages of
intimate photos OMG!") released
this August.
Yep. Come to think of it, that
was probably it.
After 10 tumultuous years as a
RollingStone magazine subscrib-
er, I finally ended my subscrip-
tion via an angry, exclamation
point-filled e-mail. While some
(read: most) serious music lovers
wrote off Rolling Stone a long,
long time ago, it took me until
quite recently to finally relieve
myself of the head-pounding, bi-
monthly migraine that accompa-
nied each issue's arrival.
You see, as infuriating as it
was at times, I held the maga-

By ERIC CHIU
DailyArts Writer
Pathos is usually a hard thing to
get right. Good drama and pathos
often go hand in
hand, but if a show
goes too far in one
direction, it risksnR My
dropping into the 7
pitfall of standard- Family
grade schmaltz. Mondays at
"Find My 9:30 p.m.
Family," the lat-
est reality- show ABC
from ABC, makes
no bones about where it falls on
this spectrum. The show revolves
around hosts Tim Green and Lisa
Joyner reuniting adopted children
with their birth parents, recount-
ing the backstory of how and why
the parents originally gave up their
kids.
Coming from the production
team behind the "Extreme Make-
over" series, the levels of unadulter-
ated schmaltz at work here make
Thomas Kinkade look like Salvador
Dali. The show stages the reunions
under a literal tree - appropriately
and cheesily dubbed the "Fam-
ily Tree" - and it's all scored by
an absurd overly dramatic score,
complete with swelling strings and
pianos.
The show makes frequent use of
staged moments, which wouldn't be
a problem if they weren't so ineptly
executed. In the pilot, when Joyner

passed a letter to Jennie Jones (the
child given up for adoption), the
show cut to her biological parents
writing the letter. It's not necessar-
ily a horrible idea, but it was done in
such a brazenly emotionally manip-
ulative fashion - the parents nar-
rated themselves reading the letter,
complete with camera zoom on the
letter itself - that it can't help but
feel awkward.
Hosts Joyner and Green also
barely pass the ABC show host
requirement of being able to form
complete sentences. And on two
separate and particularly cringe-
worthy occasions, Joyner told Jones
that she knew "... exactly how you're
feeling," which, given the circum-
stances of Jones and Joyner being
surrounded by a camera crew docu-
menting Jones's personal trauma to
be broadcast on ABC, can't help but
come off a bit tone deaf.
In spite of all this, "Find My Fam-
ily" is surprisingly less of a train
wreck than its premise might have
suggested. The show makes a judi-
cious effort to tell the stories in each
episode, with Green's narration
documenting the show's search for
the adopted child and the pressure
as each side of the family prepares
to reunite.
Talking head segments and
old photos also illustrate what
drew the original family to put
up their child for adoption. The
show's insistence on weighing all
of this down with its clich6 narra-

tive is somewhat distracting, but
the inherent drama of its premise
keeps it compelling.
For the most part, the show isn't
leery of backing away from the less
photogenic aspects of each fam-
ily's story. Jennie was born out of
wedlock, and the premiere episode
spent ample time going over how
that affected her original family.
It's a shame though, that similar
attention wasn't paid to the'adopted
child's side of the story. The show
mentioned Jennie's adopted mother
is a single mom, but relative to the
focus on her original parents, that's
paid lip service.
Straddling the
line between
heartwarming
and heartless.
For what it is, "Find My Fam-
ily" manages to achieve most of its
admittedly low-hanging goals. It's
.unabashed schlock, packed from
start to finish with lots of tearful
embraces, group hugs and other
stuff that's all but scientifically
proven to pull at your heartstrings.
But to the show's credit, it does this
well enough to keep things heart-
warming, if not much else.

Joe's v-neck wasn't enough to quench Kevin's desire.
zine close to my heart for nearly Rolling Stone as a naive, prepu-
a decade. It started when my bescent boy was my first brush
sister subscribed on a whim one with music journalism. And the
day at the checkout of Best Buy. emphatic way in which they
But as I became more and more wrote about music reflected my
passionate about music and my own budding enthusiasm for the
sister became smart enough to medium.
stop reading, the magazine fell Even now, I can feel the influ-
squarely into my hands. Reading See ROLLING STONE, Page 8A

Experience the Difference
- list Sq. Ft. Aps.
Great for 2 5 people
- Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
- Free High-Speed Internet
- HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
- Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
* Contemporary F niture
*Close to CCRB
Exercise Room, Rec. Room
* Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C 741-9300
www.annarberepartments.net
7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just loath of S. State
Streen on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still be able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty of parking!!t!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommatesttt!tt Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
1 7 6
4 1 1 7
9 4 2
25 1 7

ixe lf ic~ioati Daily
P RFESFENITS T HFE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit mlchigandally.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Ferm.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes alt
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.cc.coop 734-662-4414.
AVAIL NOW AND/OR Fall
2 spacious 5 bedroom apt.
Call 734-665-2723 or vist
www.shahproperties.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff, Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeMaaagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at1248.935.2159 or email
815SothStateManagers Riyumich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stp by!
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomreaty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., dry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net

Beds
6
6
6
6
5
4

Location Rent
1029 Vaughn $4200
1021 Church $3700
541 S. Division $3500
930 Packard $3200
1101 Church $3000
1018 E. University $2600

SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NEED CASH? EARN up to $1,000
during finals week! Better World
Books needs ynur help buying text-
books and collecting textbook dona-
tions. Help your friends get more cash
for their books and earn money in the
process. Contact Emily at 574-855-
5206 or go to www.betterworldbooks.-
com/campusoperative
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477. www.earnparttime.com

STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com

SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

[Copi Properties
734.663.5609
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
NOW LEASING 2010-It
PRIME STUDEN THOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 U. Lawrence
I Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 B. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
(* Atmost locations)
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Avaitable immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
SUBLETS
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.


H PV Fact:
A bot out of 3
genital warts after
having any kind
of enital contact
with someone
i nf ected..
So youdot have
t o actually have sx
to getentI rs
There's something you can do.
Visit yo ur cam pu s
healthcenter



8A - Monday, November 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *I

Videogum's 'U' alum

Wale deserves
your 'Attention'

How Gabriel Delahaye
made a career out of snide
online comments
By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily Arts Writer
"People don't really realize how much work
it is to write a professional blog. I think it's
because of how stupid blogs are. But they are
incredibly work-intensive."
Although many might not equate "profes-
sional pop-culture blogger" with "grueling
occupation," University alum Gabriel Dela-
haye, a senior editor of entertainment blog
Videogum.com, wants to clear up a common
misconception: Getting paid to provide com-
mentary on YouTube videos and write snarky
recaps of television shows isn't as simple as it
seems.
"Videogum is my full-time job. I work about
60 hours a week, and it would be easy to work
more. Then most nights I watch something on
TV to write about the next day. I'm very lucky
to have a boss that likes my work and trusts
me, so there is basically no editing hierarchy.
That is definitely one of the reasons there are
so many typos on the site all the time," Dela-
haye wrote in an e-mail interview.
"I mostly cover what I want to cover, and
what I want to cover tends to be things that
I hate," Delahaye wrote. "I mean, it's much
easier to be funny about things that are ter-
rible or silly or flawed than it is to be funny
about things that are genuinely wonderful and
enriching and beautiful."
It's easy to believe that someone who watch-
es TV for a living would prefer to do anything
else in his free time. But Delahaye is differ-
ent. Despite making a living by critiquing the
awful, the hackneyed and the woefully mis-
guided, he still has a soft spot for television,
easily providing a list of his favorite shows.
"I love '30 Rock,' and 'Tim and Eric,' and
'Arrested Development,' and 'The Wire,' and
'Lost,' and 'The Sopranos,' and 'Mad Men,'
and 'Friday Night Lights,' and 'Aqua Teen
Hunger Force,' and 'Eastbound and Down.' I
genuinely think we are living in a golden age
of TV and of comedy. It's never really been
any better than this."
But this doesn't mean he's able to completely

"It's definitely harder to enjoy TV now
because everything is a potential subject,
and I'm much more aggressively critical," he
wrote. "But good shows are still good, and
there are a few things that I watch that I don't
write about specifically so that I can just enjoy
them and not have to think about what Locke
becoming the leader of the Island says about
the Israeli-Palestinian conflicf. That's a bad
example, though, because I write about 'Lost.'
And because Locke becoming the leader of the
Island is more about NATO's role as an inter-
national police force."
The comments on Delahaye's Videogum
posts are often as amusing as the posts them-
selves, with dozens of anonymous posters slav-
ishly imitating his unique style and attempting
to one-up his commentary. Others criticize his
repetitiveness and constant cynicism. Despite
the polarizing nature of his writing, Delahaye
loves the feedback, going so far as to create a
site feature where he posts his five favorite
comments each week.
"Oh, it is incredibly flattering. Sometimes
I worry that I'm too predictable. But I'm also
writing about 12 posts a day, so it is hard to
reinvent that many wheels," Delahaye wrote.
And bored college students aren't the only
ones paying attention to his work.
"I did get an e-mail from Verne Troyer last
winter telling me that he hoped I got hit by a
bus."
Troyer's dismay is a little understandable:
Delahaye's jaundiced views can seem need-
lessly harsh to someone unfamiliar with his
sense of humor. However, he accepts that
many will react negatively to his work.
"I'm very aware that a lot of the people that
I write about on the site are trying their best
to actually create something, even if what
they're creating is terrible," Delahaye wrote. "I
respect that. But I also figure that anyone who
just sold their Tumblr to NBC or is making $10
million to star in a movie about a hotel for CGI
ferrets can probably handle someone calling
them names on a pop culture blog."
Prior to serving as professional media gad-
fly, Delahaye attended the University of Michi-
gan. As an Ann Arbor native, the decision was
natural.
"If this was a Lifetime movie, I would tell
you that I didn't decide on Michigan, but rath-
er Michigan decided on me. But this is not a
Lifetime movie, and that is a ridiculous thing
to say," Delahaye wrote.

Not content to simply focus on his studies,
Delahaye worked at famed Ann Arbor liquor
store Village Corner during his collegiate
career, inspiring terror in underage Wolverines.
"Oh, it was really a power trip in the worst
way," he wrote. "I lovdd taking people's fake
IDs and I had no sympathy for them at all,
despite the fact that I was only 18-20 when I
worked there. I think my philosophy was that
if you were underage and you wanted to drink
alcohol, you should just get a job at a store that
sold alcohol."
After graduation, Delahaye joined the mass
of Midwest college graduates descending upon
New York and searched in vain for a media job,
but he found life as an East Coast transplant
challenging.
"I moved to New York the fall after college,
and I hated it," he wrote. "The thing about
New York is that if you're not happy with what
you're doing, it's the most depressing place in
the world, because it's not like some coal min-
ing town where everyone is unhappy with
what they're doing and you just drink about it.
Then again, in New York's defense, I think part
of the problem was I just didn't know what I
wanted. And I didn't know how to figure out
what I wanted and stay in New York, so I left."
Delahaye finally found his niche in Inter-
net-based writing, and his familiarity with
cyberspace led to his job at Videogum, a blog
that collects reader-submitted video links and
offers commentary on them in a way similar
to its sister site, Stereogum, compiles music
links. Despite - or perhaps because of - his
familiarity with the medium, he disparages
the majority of Web-based content.
"I got involved by starting a LiveJournal,
which is a free blogging service reserved for chil-
dren. But that ease of access is great for young
people trying to get their writing out there. On
the other hand, it is terrible for people actually
tryingto read the Internet for pleasure. Because,
let's be real: most of it is terrible. 90 percent of
the Internet is a nightmare. After that, 9 percent
is top-10 lists of kittens wearing casts. And the
other 1 percent is actually decent."
Despite his slow beginnings, Delahaye
doesn'tdissuade otherstarry-eyed kids dream-
ing of ripping apart the latest shitty media in a
public forum.
"I think that getting a job in the entertain-
ment industry is difficult, but I think that get-
ting a job in any industry is difficult. Except
stripping."

By SHARON JACOBS
Daily Arts Writer
"Yeah, they keep sayin''Whale'
but my name 'Wa-lay,"' raps Wale
on his studio debut, Attention:
Deficit. Born Olubowale Victor
Akintimehin to Nigerian immi-
grant parents,
Wale can't
be faulted for
taking on a Wale
simpler stage
name, even if Attention:
its pronuncia- Deficit
tion is less than Allido/ Interscope
obvious. And
despite the
name change, he's certainly not
trying to hide his African identity,
which shows up throughout Defi-
cit, adding color and variety to an
already far-reaching endeavor.
Deficit opens with the brassy
track "Triumph," which channels
Nigerian Afrobeat pioneer Fela
Kuti. Produced by Dave Sitek of
TV on the Radio, "Triumph" toes
the same heavy-yet-uplifting line
as some of TVOTR's songs, but
it's set apart by its horn-driven
instrumentation and delightfully
clever rhymes like "Me against
you / The movie of the year /
Cause you slumdog / And I'm the
millionaire."
The other Sitek-produced track
is "TV in the Radio." Also sax-
powered and Afrobeat-inspired,
the song features Somali rapper
K'naan in a creative tirade against
posturing and poseur boasts in
rap music.
But despite his stylistic influ-
ences, Wale isn't an "African
rapper." He pumps R&B and
mainstream hip hop into his play-
ful tunes, and he makes more
shout-outs to his hometown of
Washington, D.C. than he does
to Nigeria. Ultimately, what sets
Wale apart from the crowd is not
his unique background but his
witty lines and relaxed, confident
delivery.
Refreshingly timely and precise
lyrics pop up throughout Deficit,
as Wale name-checks everyone
and everything from McLovin'
to the H1N1 virus. At the end of
"Prescription," he jokingly disses
The Roots (who featured him in
one song on their album "Rising
Down") in a series of puns on each
member's name.
Wale can set an affecting scene,

as in "90210," a surprisingly origi-
nal story of a bulimic Beverly
Hills wannabe. The crisp, con-
cise synth background exposes
the inner thoughts of a girl whose
clean-cut "dream of the fame or a
ring on her finger" doesn't mesh
with the smoggy, extravagant
reality of Los Angeles. Wale's
empathetic portrait makes a well-
worn subject new.
But Wale is equally comfort-
able channeling a lighthearted
dance vibe, like on "Pretty Girls"
("Ugly girls be quiet (quiet) /Pret-
ty girls clap (clap) like this"), or a
moody R&B-tinged reflection,
like on down-tempo "Contem-
plate," which coolly considers an
unfaithful girlfriend.
It's clear from Attention: Defi-
cit that Wale is a romantic. Sev-
eral of his songs are stories of
women victimized by the world.
Others deal with Wale's conflict-
ed feelings about women. Even
"Shades," a bouncy, poppy-but-
personal consideration of race,
has him talking about a botched
relationship with a white girl by
the end of the first verse. He also
features as many female as male
Hip hop's clever
romantic gets
his name out.
artists, and the album definitely
feels more balanced because of it.
But Wale doesn't try to tackle
anything too serious on Deficit.
This is afunalbum atheart,which
is most evident on "Chillin," a
made-for-the-frats grinder that
samples Steam's "Na Na Hey
Hey Kiss Him Goodbye." Above
a thumping, party-hardy beat,
Lady Gaga does her best swagger-
ing M.I.A. impression between
energetic verses. The track finds
Wale bragging "I got the right to
be cocky / Get so much cut, disc
jockeys jock me."
Yeah, he has the right to be
cocky. Already a star in our
nation's capital, Wale shouldn't
worry about people pronouncing
his name wrong. With his smart
and accessible style, soon the
name Wale is something we're
goingto be hearing all the time.

*I

switch off the critic's mindset.
ROLLING STONE
From Page 7A
ence Rolling Stone has had on my
musical tastes. its constant gushing
over Bob Dylan made me check him
out for myself before I even knew
what "everybody must get stoned"
could possibly mean. Later, it made
me rethink my high opinion of the
whole emo scene. And it's where I
first read about Sufjan Stevens.
The nostalgia I felt for Rolling
Stone kept me reading despite the
obvious dip in integrity and rel-
evance over the years. I overlooked
the extremist, dogmatic, George
W. Bush-hating political babble
that filled each issue. (I'm no Bush-
lover - or even liker, for that mat-
ter - but Rolling Stone fostered a
hate for this man that went way
beyond the normal spectrum of
human emotion. If he had been
assassinated, the magazine would
orobably have orinted a full-color

celebration spread complete with
detailed death pics and free pack-
ets of confetti.)
I did become a little more con-
cerned when I began to notice
the apparent review inflation that
Rolling Stone would give to its
"pet artists" (U2, Green Day, Bruce
Springsteen, Bob Dylan, etc.). Still,
this egregious pay-per-star review
system didn't dissuade me from
reading on.
What kept me going were those
one or two redeeming articles per
month that seemed to validate my
blind affection for the magazine
and the $I9.95 yearly subscription
fee. For instance, when the Jonas
Brothers first graced the cover
in August 2008, I was dismayed
and even embarrassed to read the
magazine in public (and this came
months after those darling ladies
from "The Hills" posed dumbly
in the same spot). But then, a few
issues later, there was a fantastic
piece eulogizing the late novelist
David Foster Wallace. My faith had

been restored by a single article.
But the shit kept pilingup.
Around the time of the Fos-
ter Wallace article, Rolling Stone
switched formats from the clas-
sic, larger-than-average print size
to the more standard-sized, glossy
style used by magazines like Maxim
and Spin.
Now, I wasn't opposed to the
magazine's switchover in essence.
Actually, I was quite excited for
it. But somehow, with the change
in format, Rolling Stone's gradual
debasement came to a head.
A new celebrities-are-just-like-
us photo section was added. The
biased album reviews became too
corrupt to ignore. Every time an
artist was interviewed, the maga-
zine made sure to ignore the good
questions about stuff like song craft -
and inspiration and instead focused
on exactly what and how many
drugs the person has taken (seri-
ously, this occurs every time and is
almost always uninteresting). They
put Lady Gaga on the cover. It all

became too much to bear. So I can-
celed my subscription and haven't
looked back since.
What happened, Rolling Stone?
You used to be a cultural force that
dictated America's musical opinion.
Remember how happy Stillwater
was to be on your cover in "Almost
Famous?" Remember the count-
less iconic photographs that sprung
from your pages?
You lost a bit of clout after a cou-
ple decades, sure, but that's natu-
ral for an institution that has been
around as long as you have. At least
you were still a magazine that had
a contagious passion for music with
enough engaging articles to keep a
prepubescent kid interested.
But now, Rolling Stone, now
you're nothing more than a pan-
dering, overstuffed, Us Weekly-
ripoff tabloid. I know that many
grizzled Lou Reed fans will tell me
you haven't been relevant since the
'60s and it shouldn't have taken me
this long to realize it. And I will say
maybe they're right. But you have
now devolved into something that
even the most casual music fans
roll their eyes at.
Rolling Stone, you've broken
my heart. I hope the bajillions of
Jonas Brothers issues sold were
worth it.

I1

WOLVERINE FANS!
WATCH YOUR WOLVERINES BATTLE
FOR THE 45th ANNUAL GREAT LAKES INVITATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY
Drive one.
COLLEGE TUE. DEC 29, 2009
AT THE JOE

cOURTESY OF ALuDO/INTERScOPE

Worst staring contest ever.

INTERESTED IN THE FIELD OF GRAPHIC DESIGN?

Design Ads for
The Daily.
The Michigan Daily Advertising Design Department
is looking to fill a design position for Winter 2010.

0

4:00 PM

130 PM

Tickets are available at the Joe
Louis Arena Box Office, Campus
Box Office, all icletmaater 1A/ sf.D C 3 ,;- 0
loctir al a WED. DEC 30, 2009
locatmins attall 1-800-745-
3000. Or parchaseaonline at 3rd PLACE GAME - 4 PM I
Cllegefatkeyathelae.cam.
FAMILY 4-PACK-$44 CHAMPIONSHIP GAME - 7:30 PM
4 General Admission lickets,
4 slices of pizza & 4 soft drinks.
MARRIOTT DETROITA
Far the spetial College Hockey
Fan Rate Call 1-800-352-0831.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 30, 2009 - 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 30, 2009 - 9A

Years ago, MSA held student body-
wide elections to pick oversight reps.

From Page 1A
The main concerns about the
DPS Oversight Committee involve
the election processes used to select
representatives to serve on the body,
which is comprised of two faculty,
two staff and two student represen-
tatives. Those representatives then
make recommendations regarding
grievances filed against the campus
police.
But widespread negligence - of
internal bylaws and state laws has
recently raised concerns over how
effectively the body can handle that
responsibility.
Though a Michigan statute states
that student representatives to the
DPS Oversight Committee must be
"nominated and elected" by the stu-
dent body, MSA has, in recent years,
appointed student representatives
to fill the positions without a stu-
dent-wide election.
In an MSA meeting Nov. 3, the
assembly voted to approve two new
student representatives to the com-
mittee: LSA junior Hemant Chapar-
ala and Engineering sophomore
Prithvi Murthy.
In a special report earlier this
month, the Daily quoted several
lawyers who said that that nomi-
nation process appears to violate
Michigan's Public Act 120 of 1990,
which states, "The committee shall
be comprised of individuals nomi-
nated and elected by the faculty, stu-
dents, and staff of the institution."
While a nomination process is
used today, interviews with former
MSA officials from the last two
decades reveal that MSA used to
put DPS Oversight Committee can-
didates on ballots in student body-
wide MSA elections.
According to the DPS Oversight
Committee's bylaws, students, fac-
ulty and staff members all have the
right to vote for their own represen-
tative. But sometime in 2000, that
right was waived for students when
MSA began appointing representa-
tives to the committee - dropping
the student-wide election process.
University alum Brian Kight
served as an MSA representative
from 1990 to 1994. When the DPS
Oversight Committee was formed
in 1992, Kight wrote a supplemental
document to the MSA election code
that explained the procedures for
electing students to the committee.

The document stated that two
student representatives and one
alternative would be electetq to the
committee in a student body-wide
election. The alternate was to fill
any vacancies that might occur
throughout the year, and the candi-
dates would be placed on the MSA
winter election ballot.
Kight - who was chair of the
MSA Rules and Elections Commit-
tee at the time - said MSA created
the supplement to make sure stu-
dent representatives on the com-
mittee would in fact be elected by
the students, and not appointed by
the administration.
"We were worried that the Uni-
versity administration would hold its
own elections independent of MSA,
and we were worried that that would
set a bad precedent that student gov-
ernment would lose its autonomy if
thathappened," Kight said.
Kight also explained that MSA
and student groups protested
against the deputization of campus
police officers because they were
concerned officers carrying guns
could potentially shoot students.
Despite the controversy, the Uni-
versity Board of Regents voted to
approve the formation of DPS in a
restricted Access meeting where
protesters could not disrupt pro-
ceedings.
Kight said MSA was torn on how
to handle the situation - with one
party wanting to oppose the police
and the majority of assembly mem-
bers desiring to support them as
long as they listened to students'
concerns.
That's when Kight drafted the
Supplemental Election Code that
was an additional chapter of the
MSA Compiled Code - the consti-
tution that outlines MSA rules and
procedures.
Kight said he wrote the new
provisions because there was some
concern on how MSA would legally
appoint the representatives.
For other University commit-
tees with student representation,
MSA's Campus Governance Com-
mittee nominated candidates, and
the assembly voted to approve them
- a process similar to the one used
today to put representatives on the
oversight committee. But because of
the state law, MSA officials believed
this process wouldn't suffice.
"Looking at Public Act 120, it said

'nominated andelected'sowe deter-
mined that these positions had to be
elected - not appointed through the
normal Campus Governance Com-
mittee appointment process," Kight
said.
Because the law does not state
how vacancies are to be filled, Kight
inserted a provision that called for
an alternate to also be elected. The
alternate would serve a one-year
term and fill any vacancies that
arose during the year.
Today, MSA does not appoint
alternates. As reported in the Nov.
16 Daily report, the lack of alter-
nates presented a problem this year,
when both student representatives
had graduated by May, and the com-
mittee had no student representa-
tion for six months.
According to Kight, the first MSA
elections following the provisions
in 1992 were successful. Candidates
were placed on MSA's paper ballot,
and Kight recalls about six students
running for the position.
"It was definitely competitive,"
he said.
Elected student representatives
to the Oversight Committee could
be traced back to 1999 - in a Daily
article that announced the winners
of the two positions.
According to Matt Nolan, MSA
president from 2001 to 2002, there
was no student body-wide election
in 2000. Nolan added that he was
not aware that the representatives
had been elected in prior years.
University alum Hideki Tsut-
sumi, who served as MSA president
from 2000 to 2001, could not be
reached for comment.
Additionally, the Supplemental
Election Code, or any similar docu-
ment, is no longer part of the MSA
Compiled Code. Kightsaid he thinks
it disappeared at some point when
MSA revised the Compiled Code.
The Compiled Code is revised
about once a month. Mahanti and
2008-2009 MSA President Sabrina
Shingwani said they had not heard
of the Supplemental Election Code.
Mahantisaid election procedures
for the DPS Oversight Committee
are not outlined in MSA's current
Election Code.
Though Mahanti told the Daily
this month that it would be difficult
to organize a student body-wide
election for the Oversight Com-
mittee representatives, Kight said

online voting should make it easy
and cited the printing costs and
logistical challenges of coordinat-
ing paper ballots he dealt with as a
representative nearly 20 years ago.
When Public Act 120 was writ-
ten, Kight said there was a general
consensus that the students would
nominate and elect their peers to
the committee. He added the way
MSA currently handles the election
process by appointing representa-
tives is "absolutely in violation of the
state statue."
"I think the statue is very clear
that these individuals have to be
nominated and elected by the stu-
dents," he said. "When it says that,
it doesn't mean the representative
body of the students. It means the
students."
Kight said he thinks MSA didn't
do a good job of promotingthe posi-
tion over the years and members
had a hard time finding candidates.
"At some point they probably
decided, 'OK we'll appoint these
positions just like we appoint peo-
ple to other committees,' and they
weren't really paying attention to
the fact that Public Act 120 of 1990
requires an election," he said.
In addition to MSA's missteps
regarding the DPS Oversight Com-
mittee, the University's administra-
tion also never acted over the last
decade on the possibly illegal nomi-
nation process MSA has been using.
In an interview this month, Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan said she did not
know much about the issue and sug-
gested to talk to Mahanti.
"I'mmoreofaninterestedobserv-
er onthis than an active ingredient,"
Sullivan said.
At the University Board of
Regents November meeting, Uni-
versity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald
said the University strongly believes
it is meetingthe requirements of the
law both in writing and in practice.
Kight said he thinks University
administrators have always been
"ambivalent" about the committee
and that they never paid any atten-
tion to the body because they felt
DPS could handle grievances on its
own.
"I really think the University
administration has never been a big
fan of the Oversight Committee and
has kind of downplayed it, ignored
it or at least they haven't really been
concerned about it," Kight said.

In this Oct. 1, 2009 file photo, Elizabeth Smart smiles as she leaves federalcourt.
Hearing today for
abductor in case of
Elizabeth Smart

Court will decide
whether abductor is
competent enough
to stand trial
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) - For
the third time since his arrest in
2003, a court will hold a compe-
tency hearing for the man charged
in the 2002 abduction of Elizabeth
Smart.
The 10-day hearing for Brian
David Mitchell begins today in
Utah's U.S. District Court.
U.S. DistrictJudgeDaleKimball
will ultimately decide whether the
56-year-old former street preacher
is competent to stand trial.
It's unclear how long Kimball
will take to issue a ruling. His
decision will determine how the
case will proceed - toward a trial
if Mitchell is competent or an
effort to restore Mitchell's compe-
tency if he is not.
The hearing will be Mitchell's
first in federal court, but it's a
replay of state court proceedings
where Mitchellwas twice deemed
incompetent for trial.
Diagnosed with a rare delusion-
al disorder Mitchell - who sings
hymn incessantly during court
appearances and -once yelled at a
judge to 'repent' - has been pri-
marily held at the Utah State Hos-

pital and has refused treatment.
Last year, a state judge refused
to order forced medication for
Mitchell, saying she was not con-
vinced that anti-psychotic drugs
would restore his competency.
Aself-described prophetofGod,
Mitchell was indicted by a federal
grand jury in 2008 on charges of
kidnapping and unlawful trans-
portation of a minor. A state case,
where he is charged with multiple
felonies, has been held up over the
competency issue.
Smart was just 14 on June 5,
2002, when she was taken from
her home at knifepoint and held
captive for nine months. At an
October hearing, Smart said she
was forced to become Mitchell's
second wife in a religious ceremo-
ny and then raped.
Smart was recovered in March
2003 after motorists saw her
walking a suburban street with
Mitchell and his now-estranged
wife, Wanda Eileen Barzee.
Federal prosecutors contend
Mitchell is faking psychiatric
symptoms in order to avoid prose-
cution - an opinion supported by
a reportby New York forensic psy-
chiatrist Dr. Michael Welner; who
was paid to evaluate Mitchell.
The full 206-page report is
not yet public, but excerpt of it in
court documents show Welner
disputes the findings of previous
evaluations of Mitchell.

Have you suffered an injury after taking any of the
birth control medications
YAZ,YASMINor OCE LLA?
If you or a relative has suffered a serious injury after taking
the prescription birth control pills Yaz, Yasmin or Ocella,
then you may be eligible to file a lawsuit against the drug's
manufacturer for compensation.
Some of the side effects attributed to Yaz,
Yasmin and Ocella are:
* Death
* Blood clots in the legs (DVT or Deep Vein Thrombosis)
* Blood clots in the lungs (PE or Pulmonary Embolism)
* Portal Vein Thrombosis and Blood Clots in other Veins
* Stroke
* Heart attack
* Gall Bladder Surgery and its complications
Contact us immediately if you or a loved one
experienced any of these conditions, as your
state's statute of limitations puts a time limit on
your ability to file a claim.
WEITZ & LUXENBERG can help you understand
your legal options. We are one of America's largest trial
law and products liability law firms representing injured
persons with total verdicts and settlements in excess of
$3 Billion, and are committed to represent your inter-
ests aggressively and professionally. Our leadership ex-
perience in such national litigations as Ortho Evra Birth
Control Patch, Seroquel, Vioxx, MTBE, Bextra, Celebrex and others has given thou-
sands of clients the confidence to entrust us with their most serious legal issues.
For a free consultation please call us today at 1-888-411-LAWS (5297).

NATIONAL HEADQUARIERS:
700 Broadway " New York, NY 10003
1.888.411.LAWS . www.weitzlux.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 30, 2009 --10A

0l

Senate report: Bin Laden
was'within our grasp'

Esc
the
rein
WAS
bin Lad
in reach
tains of
military
and cos
terroris
Senate r
The r
to killc
most v
hashad
the fat
escape l
reinvigo
and infl
endange
Staff
eign Re

ape in 2001 laid cratic majority prepared the report
at the request of the chairman, Sen.
foundation for John Kerry, as President Barack
Obama prepares to boost U.S. troops
vigorated Afghan inAfghanistan.
The Massachusetts senator and
insurgency 2004 Democratic presidential can-
didate has long argued the Bush
HINGTON (AP) - Osama administration missed a chance to
en was unquestionably with- get the al-Qaida leader and top depu-
of U.S. troops in the moun- ties when they were holed up in the
Tora Bora when American forbidding mountainous areaof east-
leaders made the crucial ern Afghanistan only three months
tly decision notcto pursue the after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
t leader with massive force, a attacks.
eportsays. Although limited to a review of
eport asserts that the failure military operations eight years old,
or capture bin Laden at his the report could also be read as a
ulnerable in December 2001 cautionary note for those resisting
lastingconsequences beyond an increased troop presence there
e of one man. Bin Laden's now.
aid the foundation for today's More pointedly, it seeks to affix a
rated Afghan insurgency measure of blame for the state of the
amed the internal strife now war today on military leaders under
ering Pakistan, it says. former president George W. Bush,
members for the Senate For- specifically Donald H. Rumsfeld as
'lations Committee's Demo- defense secretary and his top mili-

tary commander, Tommy Franks.
"Removing the al-Qaida leader
from the battlefield eight years ago
wouldnothave eliminated the world-
wide extremist threat," the report
says. "But the decisions that opened
the door for his escape to Pakistan
allowed bin Laden to emerge as a
potent symbolic figure who contin-
ues to attract a steady flow of money
and inspire fanatics worldwide. The
failure to finish the job represents a
lost opportunity that forever altered
the course of the conflict in Afghani-
stan and the future of international
terrorism."
The report states categorically
that bin Laden was hiding in Tora
Bora when the U.S. had the means
to mount a rapid assault with sev-
eral thousand troops at least. It says
that a review of existing literature,
unclassified government records and
interviews with central participants
"removes any lingering doubts and
makes it clear that Osama bin Laden
was within our grasp at Tora Bora."
using it because it really does offer
a lot of benefits as far as transpar-
ency goes," Brusstar said.
While the student body can use
the website for general campus
information, MSA representatives
and committee and commission
members can use the website for
internal purposes, like accessing
attendance records.
Though Eta Kappa Nu's serv-
ers were always an option, MSA
didn't turn to the organization
earlier because representatives
feared hosting the site with a stu-
dent organization might be unre-
liable in the long term because of
the annual change in leadership,
Mahanti said.
But now that MSA needs a
short-term place to host the site
until the University updates its
software, Brusstar said he is con-
fident the Eta Kappa Nu servers
will be dependable, even though
his term as president will end with
the semester.

0i

KARIN cOOPER,CBSFACE THE NATION/AP
In this photo provided by CBs, Sen, Carl Levin, (D-Mich.), appears on CBS's "Face the Nation" in Washington yesterday.

Levin: Afghanistan troops
key to war'succenot U.S.

MSA WEBSITE
From Page 1A
team ran into problems when it
tried to launch the site on Univer-
sity servers.
According to Mahanti, the back-
end for the site had been written for
version 5.10 of the programming
language Process and Experiment
Automation Realtime Language,
or PEARL. The Information Tech-
nology Central Services servers
MSA had intended to use only had
support for version 5.8. -
Rather than wait for the Uni-
versity to upgrade, MSA decided to
host the site on servers provided by
Eta Kappa Nu, a student-run elec-
trical engineering and computer
science engineering honor society.
Mahanti said hostingthe site on
the Eta Kappa Nu servers is only
a temporary solution and that the
website will be transferred to Uni-
versity servers once the University

updates its software.
"Everything will actually
behave the same except it will be
hosted on student servers instead
of (ITCS), which is kind of cool
actually," Mahanti said.
Eta Kappa Nu allows students
to use its servers free of charge,
according to MSA Student General
Counsel Jim Brusstar, who is also
president of Eta Kappa Nu.
Engineering Rep. Pat Pannuto,
who is also a member of Eta Kappa
Nu, is in charge of putting MSA's
site on Eta Kappa Nu's servers. He
said he expects the website will be
up by the end of this week.
Brusstar said this temporary
solution is a better option than
maintaining MSA's current web-
site, which he said "isn't the great-
est." He said the website will likely
be moved permanently to the ITCS
servers early next semester.
"(Mahanti) is thinking it's more
important to get the new website
up there and get people to start

Michigan senator's
remarks come days
before Obama's
expected policy shift
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
leading Senate Democrat on mili-
tary matters said Sunday that Pres-
ident Barack Obama's anticipated
plan for significantly expanding
U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan
must show how those reinforce-
ments will help increase the size of
the Afghan security forces.
Sen. Carl Levin, chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Commit-
tee, said more Afghan army and
police are central to succeeding in
the 8-year-old war and more U.S.
trainers and equipment can help
meet that goal. But it's unclear,
Levin said, what role tens of thou-
sands additional combat troops
will play, and Obama has to make
a compelling case during a nation-
al address he's scheduled to give
Tuesday night from the U.S. Mili-

tary Academy at West Point, N.Y.
"The key here is an Afghan
surge, notanAmerican surge," said
Levin, D-Mich. "We cannot, by
ourselves, win (the) war."
Levin's remarks are a preview
of the possible roadblocks Obama
faces from his own party as he pre-
pares to sell a broader, more expen-
sive battle plan for Afghanistan to
an American public weary of the
conflict that began just weeks after
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
At West Point, Obama is expected
to announce an increase of up to
35,000 more U.S. forces to defeat
the Taliban-led insurgency and sta-
bilize a weak Afghan government.
The escalation, which would take
place over the next year, would put
more than 100,000American troops
in Afghanistan at an annual cost
of about $75 billion. Obama is also
expected to outline his exitstrategy.
Democrats concerned over the
price tag have proposed a war tax
to pay for operations. Rep. David
Obey, D-Wis., chairman of the
House Appropriations Commit-
tee, has introduced legislation to

impose a war surtax beginning in
2011. The bill would exempt service
members and their families.
"If this war is important enough
to engageinthe longterm, it'simpor-
tant enough to pay for," Obey said.
Lawmakers want a greater com-
mitment from NATO allies so the
U.S. isn'tfooting the bill on its own.
"I've got a real problem about
expanding this war where the rest
of the world is sitting around and
saying, 'Isn't ita nice thing thatthe
taxpayers of the United States and
theU.Smilitaryaredoingthework
that the rest of the world should be
doing?'" said Sen. Bernie Sanders, a
Vermont independent.
British Prime Minister Gor-
don Brown has said several allied
nations will offer a total of 5,000
more troops. But speaking Sat-
urday at a news conference in the
Caribbean nation of Trinidad,
Brown also said Afghan President
Hamid Karzai's government must
meet specific benchmarks that
allow foreign troops to gradually
hand over control of the fighting to
local forces.


i, C i, .gan P R E S E N T S
t heO N L INE C LAS S IF IE D R E NT AL M APA

J a
05,0 on.Arbor
'0 " 340j~n'~e

MSA ELECTION
From Page 1A
distribute flyers in the Diag.
The Election Board also pur-
chased Facebook ads reminding
students to vote.
The election was originally
scheduled for Nov. 18 and 19, but
was rescheduled to today and
tomorrow because of a timing vio-
lation with MSA Compiled Code.
MSA members say the new dates,
which fall immediately after the

Thanksgiving break, are not opti-
mal because candidates didn't have
as much time to campaign immedi-
ately before the elections.
MSA President Abhishek Mah-
anti said the Thanksgiving break
might be "problematic," but that if
candidates work hard to campaign
during the election, voter turnout
will not be affected.
"I think candidates will have
a tough time mobilizing a lot of
people," Mahanti said. "But if they
do a good job e-mailing and have
a strong presence physically, we

might actually see it be OK."
There will be 14 schools holding
elections for 36 open seats, includ-
ing seven open Rackham seats, four
open Engineering seats and 11 open
LSA seats.
There are 13 Michigan Vision
Party candidates, 10 Defend Affir-
mative Action Party candidates and
16 independent candidates.
The polls opened at midnight
and will close tomorrow night at
11:59 p.m. Students can vote for can-
didates in their own colleges online
at vote.umich.edu.

z
F:or51 I1 i
Fix..
x
s
:k


. x .-. .. .,x .. .. .. _

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

PACKARD PUB
From Page 1A
downturn. He said when his friend
told him about the open location on
Packard and State, he thoughtit was
"kind of a miracle, so to speak."
"Just by luck, just knowing
somebody else, they brought it to
my attention," Miller said. "Then
we lookedat it, and I fell in love
with the location, and that's why
we moved forward with it."
While some students expressed
excitement about the pub's open-
ing, some students who live in
apartments above the venue had
mixed feelings about the potential
increase in noise levels when the
bar opens.
LSA senior Allison Zarbo, who
lives above Packard Pub, said she
is worried the bar might affect her
academics negatively.
"If it's really noisy and I can't get
any sleep and my grades are start-
ing to suffer, I'll look into trying to
get out of my lease," she said.
However, she added that she
is also excited to have a bar just
downstairs, and that she plans to
go on occasion.

Engineering graduate student
Tim Mekaru said he is ambivalent
about living in such close proxim-
ity to a potentially noisy bar.
"I don't know how bad or good
it will be to have a bar below me,"
Mekaru said.
Both tenants said they were not
informed about the bar's opening
until they saw the "Coming Soon"
signs in the pub's front window.
Zarbo said she is surprised Arch
Realty, who manages the build-
ing, didn'tnotify the tenantsbefore
opening the bar.
Miller, the pub's owner, said the
leasing company had informed res-
idents of the new change.
"They made it aware (to) all the
tenants that moved in that there
could possibly be a bar moving in
there before they sign their leases,
so the landlord took care of that
on their part up front, and all the
students were acceptable of that,"
Miller said.
Arch Realty refused to comment
on the situation.
Mekaru said he didn't re-sign
his lease because he worried the
bar would be too noisy.
"Since the date to re-sign the
lease was so early, I didn't re-sign

on my apartment because I was
really kind of scared because what
if it's loud all the time and I can
never sleep and I can never study?"
Mekaru said.
LSA junior Jon Bassman agreed
with Miller that State and Packard is
the prime location for a bar. He said
he "isn't too big on the bar thing"
because of the trek it takes to get to
bars up South State Street and on
South University Avenue, but that
this new location will motivate him
to go.
"I'm looking forward to summer
to basically crossing the street, get-
ting hammered and coming back
without having to Pay for a taxi,"
Bassman said.
LSA senior Sean Yip also said
he thought the location was a good
choice.
"I think it's going to be good,"
Yip said. "There (are) not many
bars around here. I think it's going
to liven up the whole atmosphere
here around Packard."
Miller said the pub's construc-
tion is moving along and he hopes
to finish repairs in the next week.
He said plans are to start bringing
in furniture soon in advance of the
pub's planned January opening.


WH E RE CAN A STUDENT
a z
UNIVERSITY W WANY YOU PA -
HOUSING.
Hundreds of single rooms and www.options.housing.umich.edu
apartments; choose one for -- --- --- - --..--...-.
your own personal getaway. 1-1,.The Time of Your Life.
.... .... .... .... .... .... ... ..... .........
...... ..........- - -- -- ..-...-. . - *,-- - . -
HIVESIONUlSDTYACIN
- 01Vst.ON or OTttDENT AtF S

i
3
j - .:.
F
.
1


START-UP
From Page 1A
Graham said he and Minor asked
Sillman and Klein to help them find
agents and handle their finances
because they trust them.
"A lot of things have happened in
my life where I've not known some-
body I can trust," Graham said in
a telephone interview with The
Michigan Daily last night. "(Jor-
dan) and Dan know a lot and this is
the best situation for me."
Sillman and Klein said they met
Graham and Minor through mutu-
al friends and have been close ever
since.
"These kids are family to us,"
Sillman said. "They come home for
the Jewish holidays. They know all
our families. And they really are
family."
And when the athletes came to

them for help finding an agent, they
gladly accepted.
Due to NCAA rules that prohibit
student-athletes from having paid
representatives, Klein and Sillman
did not form Compass Management
until the Monday after the football
game against Ohio State University.
During the season, though, the two
assisted the players by researching
potential agents.
"We felt when they asked us to
do this, we wanted to do it legally,
legitimately and correctly." Sill-
man said. "By forming a company
after the season, we could handle
all the affairs they asked us to
(handle)."
Sillman said a surprisingnumber
of professional athletes go bankrupt
because they don't know how to
manage their money. He added that
Compass Management was formed
to help its clients handle, invest and
budget their money wisely.

"There is a lot that needs to be
done with (a professional athlete's)
investment portfolios, CPAs, tax
and estate planners, insurance
agents, their large purchases and
so on," Sillman said. "We feel we
create a checks-and-balances sys-
tem to protect the player and help
them."
Sillman said they have already
helped Minor and Graham sign
with an agent. He added that the
company will now focus on ways
to "preserve (the players') wealth
and create business opportunities
for them."
The two football players are
currently the company's only cli-
ents, but Klein said they expect to
sign more athletes - in a variety of
sports - by June.
"Professionalathleteslosemoney
in all different leagues." Klein said.
"It's not only the NFL, it's the NBA
and the NHL (as well)."


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com I November 30, 2009

MICHIGAN 3
Junior Louie Caporusso celebrates a goal in the Wolverines' 3-2 win over Wisconsin in the College Hockey Showcase. After its worst start in more than 20 years, Michigan swept the tournament. SAID ALSALAH/Daily
SHOWING UP
Blue'D' finally shines Team is playing
during Showcase sweep |Michigan hockey'again

BY MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writer
Through the first two months
of its season, the Michigan
hockey team lacked a signature
characteristic of most Red Beren-
son-coached teams: sound defen-
sive hockey.
But according to sophomore
alternate captain Luke Glenden-
ing, the Wolverines in their sweep
of the 17th-annual College Hock-
ey Showcase might have finally
found that missing component
this weekend.
"That has been our goal all year
but we haven't really done it yet,"
Glendening said of playing strong
defense. "This weekend, we start-
ed to do it, and it showed up on the
scoreboard."
It showed with a 3-2 victory
over Wisconsin and a 6-0 drub-

bing of Minnesota, which sealed
Michigan's sixth Showcase sweep
in program history.
On Saturday night, Michi-
gan (7-7) slipped past an under-
achieving Wisconsin team, that
Berenson said may have been the
Wolverines' toughest opponent
all year.
With the score tied at one late
in the second period, Glendening
corralled the puck off a face-off in
the Badger zone.
He lifted a nifty wrist shot
underneath the crossbar to give
Michigan the lead heading into
the final stanza.
The Wolverines got the game-
winning tally midway through the
third period from junior center
Louie Caporusso, who received
a pass from freshman A.J. Treais
at the right side of the crease and
deposited the puck in the net.

Michigan held on down the
stretch by minimizing Wiscon-
sin's (8-5-1) odd-man rushes and
playing strong man-to-man cover-
age in the defensive zone.
"They were really good, and
we were on our heels on and off
during the game," Berenson said.
"The fact that if we keep our goals
against down, we will be in these
games. ... But that was a grinding
game tonight.
"That was a man's game. It was
in-the-trenches type of hockey,
and we survived it."
The previous night's 6-0 victory
against the Golden Gophers wasn't
as much of a fight for survival. Five
different players scored, and junior
left wing Carl Hagelin notched
two goals.
Hagelin scored his second goal
off a small but significant play that
See SHOWCASE, Page 4B

here's no sugarcoating
Michigan hockey's near-
disastrous start.
Two straight sweeps at the
hands of two bitter rivals. A series
split two weeks ago against peren-
nial basement-dweller Bowling
Green. And the
worst start in 23 RYAN
years. KARTJE
"It doesn't
sit well," junior On ice hockey
Louie Capo-
russo said after
the win against Bowling Green.
- "it doesn't feel good to belong to a
team that is not playing Michigan
hockey-caliber."
And then, the nation began to
notice.
Despite salvaging a win against
the Falcons, the Wolverines were
out of the top 25 for the first time
in 12 years - and that's back when

the polls only counted the top 10
teams.
Then, with Michigan already
limping, sophomore forward Rob-
bie Czarnik quit the team to sign
with the Ontario Hockey League's
Plymouth Whalers. And on the
same day that highly touted goal-
tending recruit Jack Campbell
decommited.
Last week was the lowest of
lows for the Wolverines, who
hadn't been below.500 through 12
games since the 1986-87 season.
But sweeping this weekend's
College Hockey Showcase has
righted the path for now. The wins
against Minnesota and Wisconsin
show that in the hardest of times,
Michigan coach Red Berenson's
teams have always proven his abil-
ity to stay the course. And that's a
testament to his ability as one of
the best coaches in the game.

In the 1998-99 season - a
year removed from their second
national championship in three
seasons - the Wolverines went on
an eight-game conference winless
streak, just three weeks before the
CCHA Tournamentbegan.
With high hopes and even
higher national expectations,
Michigan's college hockey dynasty
looked threatened after doubling
their season loss total in just eight
games. But the Wolverines domi-
nated the CCHA Tournament,
scoring 20 goals in four games to
get the conference's automatic
NCAA Tournamentbid.
And last season, after losing
captain and standout defense-
man Mark Mitera to injury, the
Wolverines started 9-7. They
knew they had to rebound. So
Michigan responded with three
See HOCKEY, Page 4B


Michigan falls off in last two tourney games

BY JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla.
- In the opening game of this
weekend's Old Spice Classic, the
Michigan men's basketball team
edged a good Creighton squad in
overtime for its first win of the
tournament.
The closeness of the game was a
little surprising, given Michigan's
No. 15 ranking and Creighton's
relative anonymity, but it seemed
to be merely a hiccup for the team
expected to win the tournament.
Looking back, that game was an
ominous sign for the games yet to
come.
Marquette soundly beat the
Wolverines in their next game.
And yesterday when Michigan
battled for third place in the tour-
nament against unranked Ala-
bama, the Wolverines lost their
second straight game, 68-66.
"It let us know that we still got
a long way to go," senior DeShawn
Sims said. "And we probably aren't
the 15th team in the country."
While not placing in a tourna-
ment it was expected to win was
tough for Michigan, what was
even tougher was the way it lost.
With Sunday's game tied and
five seconds left, Alabama junior

Senario Hillman missed a layup,
but sophomore JaMychal Green
came flying in with a furious put-
back slam.
Freshman Darius Morris took
the ball cross-court into the lane
and put up a floater, only to have
it thrown into the stands by Green
to seal the Alabama win.
"That was the best play for the
team," junior Manny Harris said.
"No one helped on me, no one
helped on nobody. It was a good
play. It just didn't go our way."
Harris, of all people, could have
used that help not only in Sunday's
game but in the whole tourna-
ment.
Harris averaged nearly 23
points per game in the Classic,
which earned him a spot on the
All-Tournament team.
Michigan's next-leading scorer,
Sims, averaged 13, and the rest of
the team was largely nonexistent
on offense.
"I'm not looking at that," Harris
said. "We came out with two loss-
es, so none of that really matters."
Harris was consistently the one
powering the Wolverines' offense
against Alabama, particularly in
the early minutes, when Michigan
took a 12-point lead with about
six minutes remaining in the first
See OLD SPICE CLASSIC, Page 3B

M-NOTE
Wolverines notch
fourth straight at-large
NCAA Tournament bid

BY MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 12 Michigan volley-
ball team has received an at-large
bid to the NCAA Tournament for
the fourth consecutive year. The
Wolverines (24-9) garnered the
13th overall seed in the 64-team
field and will play in the Stan-
ford Regional.
Ann Arbor will be one of
16 host sites for the first two
rounds.
"Getting a top-16 seed in the
tournament was a goal of ours
since the spring season," Michi-
gan coach Mark Rosen said. "But
we know it doesn't guarantee
us anything. ... At this point in

the season, you can throw seeds
and all of that out the window,
because it's single elimination."
On Friday, Michigan will
square off against Niagara (23-8)
in the Purple Eagles' first-ever
tournament appearance.
If the Wolverines win that
game, they will face the winner
of Ohio and Notre Dame Satur-
day.
Michigan finished the regu-
lar season tied for fourth in the
Big Ten and is looking to make
it to the Sweet 16 for the third
straight season.
In the last two years, the Wol-
verines exited the third round
at the hands of Penn State and
Nebraska, respectively.

For volleyball coverage from this
weekend's games,
see PAGE 3B

AP PHOTO
Senior DeShawn Sims averaged just 13 points in three games this weekend.


ROUGH WEEKEND
U The young Michigan wrestling team
grabbed a win against Penn after dropping
two meets over the weekend. Page 3B.

ROAD WARRIORS
* After a fast start, the Michigan women's
basketball team is in the midst of a brutal
road game stretch. Page 2B.



2B - November 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

No bowl game? Try
these other Michigan
sports road trips

Wolverines continue eight-
game road stretch with split

hen I was a freshman,
the Michigan football
team took its tradition-
al trip to the Rose Bowl to take on
a powerhouse Southern Cal team. I
didn't go.
Oops.
Three years
and only one
bowl trip later,
my collegiate
career doesn't
seem fulfilled
without a senior ANDY
year pilgrimage REID
to some warm-
weather climate
to see the Wol-
verines play football one last time.
I'm sure that many of you -
seniors or not - also feel slighted
by another holiday season spent
watching Notre Dame, Michigan
State and Ohio State enjoying
theme parks, gift baskets and
nationally televised games while
the Wolverines take a very extend-
ed break from the playing field.
But have no fear. Just because
the football team isn't going any-
where until next season doesn't
mean you have to mope around
Ann Arbor until then.
There are plenty of Michigan
sporting events coming up at that
you can double as vacations.
DEC.19 - MICHIGAN MEN'S
BASKETBALL AT KANSAS
Because of the University's
short holiday break, this trip may
not be possible for those of you
with late final exams, like me.
But if you are lucky enough to
have an early exam schedule, this
trip is the perfect way to kick off
your break. Pack a car with some
friends and head down to Law-
rence, Kan. to see the Wolverines
take on one of the most storied
programs in college basketball
history.


I know a couple of people who
are going to try and scalp tickets
for this one, and I'm insanely
jealous. I've always wanted to see
Rock Chalk Jayhawk in person.
JAN. 2 - COPA COQUI
INVITATIONAL
OK, you may be asking your-
self, "Michigan has a women's
swimming team?" Yes, but this
trip isn't really about the sport.
Under the guise of Wolverine
fandom, you can take a trip to
San Juan, Puerto Rico. Adven-
ture tours and castle trips would
be totally worth the flight down
there - nevermind if you acci-
dentally "forget" to actually go
to the Wolverines' meet.
Regardless, a little sun right
before the winter term kicks off
sounds pretty good to me.
FEB. 6 - CAMP RANDALL
CLASSIC
This is college hockey the way
it's meant to be played - in front
of 80,000 screaming fans in the
middle of the coldest month of
the year. Outdoor hockey games
are all the rage right now, and
this one looks to be a doozy.
You'll see Michigan, who
played in the first college hockey
outdoor game in 2001 in East
Lansing, and Wisconsin, one
of the WCHA's best programs.
Oh, and the game is in Madison,
where the bar scene is crazy and
the student union serves pitch-
ers of beer. Plus, you'll probably
get to see the only rendition of
the famous "Jump Around" that
isn't at a Badger football game.
A trip to Madison is to a col-
lege kid what finding one of
Wonka's golden tickets was to
Charlie. If you've never been,
start looking into Camp Randall
Classic tickets immediately.

MARCH 21 - MICHIGAN
BASEBALL VS. NEW YORK METS
Fred Wilpon, owner of the
Mets and a Michigan alum, has
made this exhibition game, in Port
St. Lucie, Fla., a yearly tradition.
For all you baseball nerds, a trip to
spring training is worth it in and
of itself. But this game should be
something to see, too.
in fact, it could be something of a
budding rivalry. After now-gradu-
ated Wolverine Kevin Cislo tried to
bunt with the game on the line, New
York was apparently not happy.
"If he got that bunt down, I
would have drilled the next guy,"
Mets closer Billy Wagner said
after last year's game. "Play to win
against Villanova."
Maybe that sauciness could lead
to some dugout-clearing action
this year? Only time will tell.
MARCH 25-27 - MEN'S
SWIMMING NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Michigan hasn't won a team
national championship since the
2005 softball tean pulled off
an upset in the Women's Col-
lege World Series. This could be
your best chance of seeing a title
in your four years as a student.
Michigan coach Mike Bottom has
assembled a helluva team, chock
full of Olympic-caliber talent.
The three-day event is in
Columbus this year, so a trip
won't be too big a strain on the
pocketbook.
APRIL 3-5 - NCAA FINAL FOUR,
INDIANAPOLIS
Well, I can dream, can't I? Well,
maybe not after that ugly loss to
Alabama last night...
-Reid can be reached at
andyreid s umich.edu.

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
In the most tightly contested
game of its young season, the
Michigan women's basketball
team traded blows with New
Mexico State in the Aggie Hotel
Encanto Classic. Sixteen lead
changes and nine ties foreshad-
owed the exciting finale.
With the teams tied and just
under a minute to go, senior cen-
ter Krista Phillips blocked a shot,
corralled the rebound, and a hit
a bucket on the other end of the
floor in quick succession to give
the Wolverines a two-point lead.
But after the ensuing timeout,
New Mexico State junior guard
Jasmine Lowe nailed a 3-pointer
to give the Aggies the lead, and,
ultimately, the game.
Michigan went back to Phil-
lips on the next possession, but
the 6-foot-6 senior couldn't capi-
talize. Two intentional fouls and
some insurance free throws by
the Aggies (4-2) gave the Wolver-
ines a 72-67 loss, their second of
the season. It was New Mexico
State's first-ever win over a Big
Ten team.
"The first shot was good,
because I got right to the hole,"
Phillips said. "I regret taking the
second shot because it was a bit of
a fadeaway jumper and not some-
thing I'm known for doing."
Even with Phillips' missed
opportunity, Michigan coach
Kevin Borseth insisted that the
game wasn't just decided in the
final minutes.
"There were a lot of things that
led up to that scenario right there
that were really lucky for them
and unlucky for us," Borseth
said. "We had a lot of opportuni-
ties that were wide open that we
didn't hit. ... Under that circum-
stance, you have to play perfect in
every imaginable area, and I don't
think we did."
The game was the team's first
real gut check of the year, con-
sidering every other contest has
been decided by double digits. On
a team with six freshmen, simply
staying in such a battle, espe-
cially on the road, can serve as a

0i

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
Senior Krista Phillips missed a late, game-tying shot against New Mexico.

learnin
hand, a
with ha
the def
disappo
Sc
ift,
h
"Tho
we havi
said. "V

g experience. On the other be able to just rely on our ability,
ny time a team has a lead skill, athleticism, what have you.
If a minute left and loses, We really have to be perfect right *
feat will undoubtedly be now in every possession."
tinting. But Michigan (4-2) will return
home with more than just a moral
victory.
On Friday, it captured its first
win in an away game, 85-61,
against Stephen F. Austin.
heduling? Michigan's next game, on
b r Thursday at Virginia Tech, will
s bordefrline be the fourth in a stretch of eight
consecutive road games for the
iorrifying." team.
"Is it good scheduling?"
Borseth said. "No, it's not. We
don't want that scenario. With
tse are the kind of games what we're trying to accomplish,
e to be able to win," Borseth it's absolutely detrimental. It's
Me're not in the position to borderline horrifying."

- (fE E f- 

Campus lifeis stressful.
Holiday savings don't have to be.
Black Friday isn't the onIy d-Jay for g d prices. 1me .toit,
U-M Comnuter yow ,ae or
A pple's One-Day-Only Sale on Friday, December 4.

0

Mac SX - Lom

1-d



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 30, 2009 - 3B

AP PHC

Junior Manny Harris averaged more than 20 points a game in the Old Spice Classic, good enough for a spot on the All-Tournament team.

APPHOTI
Freshman Darius Morris goes up for a jump ball in the weekend's Old Spice Classic.

Spee on deense pos OLD SPICE CLASSIC

-, . - , - J- . , . " -- . . . . , '. .- - -- .- , - . - - I' , " - --'.

a problem for Michigan

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. - If
there's one thing Michigan coach
John Beilein muststressto his team
coming back from the Old Spice
Classic, it's what he emphasized to
the media after all three games of
the tournament: Quickness.
Why was it so easy for Creigh-
ton to get to the lane against
Michigan's perimeter players?
"They'rejustsoquick atall their
positions," Beilein said Thursday.
"We don't see that quickness in
our scout team, and they're just
really, really good at getting to the
basket."
Why could Marquette drive the
W lane with alarming ease and fin-

ish with 10 more points than the
Wolverines in the paint?
"That was as quick a team as
I can recall," Beilein said Friday.
"Stopping them from getting
in the lane is really hard when
they're so quick at so many posi-
tions."
And while it didn't come up in
the press conference after Sun-
day's game against Alabama, the
Crimson Tide employed a simi-
lar strategy as Marquette, using
quick guards to get by Michigan's
perimeter defense for easy bas-
kets down low.
That speed allowed them to get
30 points in the paint, including
the game-winning, put-back dunk
off a missed layup.
And it doesn't appear that
Michigan's inability to stop quick,

penetrating guards is easily fix-
able.
Against Marquette, Beilein said
his team "dialed up everything we
could do," but couldn't come up
with and answer to slow the Gold-
en Eagles down.
Freshman Darius Morris is def-
initely speedy, but he's also still
inexperienced. Redshirt sopho-
more Laval Lucas-Perry, even
with his slimmed-down physique,
seems to be a step behind most
guards.
Junior Manny Harris is quick,
but he uses up a lot of energybeing
the go-to guy on offense. And
sophomore Zack Novak seems
to be perpetually out of position,
since he's so much smaller than
the.forwards he matches up with
and, at the same time, so much

slower than the guards.
Against Alabama, Beilein saw
his guards' indecision on'offense
affect the perimeter defense.
One thing Beilein may want to
consider is staying with the 1-3-1
trap he likes to run as a way of
keeping teams off balance.
While running the trap in the
first half against Alabama, the
Wolverines forced 12 Crimson
Tide turnovers, many of which
spurred opportunities in transi-
tion - Michigan notched 10 fast
break points in the first half.
If Michigan does not improve
its defense, Beilein says the chal-
lenge going forward is simple.
"The reality hits you right in
the face - how perfect we have
to play in order to beat teams like
this," he said.

half.
But the Crimson Tide roared
back just before the break and
closed the gap to four. And from
there, it was a fight down to the
last second.
And that last second, many -
including Michigan coach John
Beilein - thought that the ball
belonged in the hands of Har-
ris, the team's leading scorer and
slasher.
"I threw Darius in there to try
to get to the rim," Beilein said. "in
hindsight, we have another player
who should've had it, and if Manny
gets to the rim, something else

may happen."
Michigan will now return to
Ann Arhor with a 4-2 record and
a significantly humbled team. But
the Wolverines won't have much
time to think aboutthis weekend's
setbacks.
Boston College comes to Crisler
Arena on Wednesday, and Beilein
said he doesn't yet know exactly
what needs correcting with his
team.
"I don't have a plan other than
watch the tape, summarize what's
happened over three days, and,
then try to put it into a 24-hour
shell so we can do what we can
before the BC game," Beilein said.
"I don't have answers right now,
other than trying to make us bet-
ter than what we have."

Wolverines drop two straight
set losses before postseason

S U D 0 K U

By MARK BURNS are favored to win their third
Daily Sports Writer straight NCAA Championship.
"Penn State had 4,500 people
The Big Ten received the sec- there, a 95-match winning streak
ond-most NCAA Tournament bids on the line, it was Senior Night -
of any conference with six vol- it was a very tough environment
leyball teams earning the right to to play in," Michigan coach Mark
play in the postseason. Rosen said. "But I was very pleased
Michigan was one of those with the effort of our team."
teams - it was seeded 13th overall After dropping the first two
in the 64-team field. matches against Penn State (20-0,
But against two of those five 32-0), the Wolverines came out of
other teams this weekend, the the locker room looking to steal a
Wolverines learned they might set or two from the Lady Lions.
not yet be on the same level. In the team's last meeting, on
Michigan (12-8 Big Ten, 24-9 Oct. 16, Michigan took Penn State
overall) lost both matches to Ohio to five sets. It was the first and only
State and Penn State this weekend time the Lady Lions have played
in its final regular-season con- in a five-set match all year. With
tests. a 15-10 lead midway through the
Michigan on Saturday lost in third set, Michigan looked poised
three sets (25-21, 25-13, -25-23) to for a comeback.
the top-ranked Lady Lions, who But Penn State rallied behind

senior outside hitter Megan
Hodge, who tallied eight of the
Lady Lions'final 10 points en route
to a sweep of the Wolverines.
"Megan Hodge went just nuts
on us in the third game," Rosen
said.
Friday's match against Ohio
State produced the same results -
a three set sweep -but a different
reaction from Rosen.
"We played very poorly against
Ohio State," Rosen said. "It was
one of the poorest efforts of the
season."
The Wolverines played relative-
ly well offensively, posting a .343
attack percentage. Senior outside
hitter Juliana Paz led the team
with 11 kills, while junior setter
Lexi Zimmerman dished out 34
assists.
But Rosen was especially dis-

appointed with his team's defen-
sive play. He said serving and digs
were the team's weak points in
Columbus.
Michigan leads the Big Ten
with 1.67 service aces per set but
had zero against the Buckeyes.
Additionally, the team had 11 ser-
vice errors on the night.
If the Wolverines expect to
advance to the Sweet 16 for the
third consecutive year, they will
need to bring a stronger effort to
the first round of the NCAA Tour-
namnent in Cliff Keen Arena.
"Getting a top 16 seed in the
tournament was a goal of ours
since the spring season," Rosen
said. "But we know it doesn't guar-
antee us anything. ... At this point
in the season, you can throw seeds
and all of that out the window,
because it's single elimination."

'M' salvages weekend with win over Penn

Two close losses
hurt for program in
rebuilding mode
By ANDREW HADDAD
For the Daily
After suffering two one-point
losses to Bloomsburg and Ameri-
can on Saturday, the Michigan
wrestling team looked like it was
en route to another heartbreaking
defeat.
But against Penn, the Wolver-
ines rallied to come away with a
19-12 win in the Journeymen/Asics
Northeast Duals in Guilderland,
N.Y.
"I was really happy with the

way we picked ourselves up after
the first two matches," Michigan
coach Joe McFarland said. "Los-
ing two duals by one point each is
tough, but we were able to bounce
back."
The Quakers led the Wolverines
by three points before sophomore
Erich Smith and juniors Anthony
Biondo and Eddie Phillips swept
the last three matches for the Wol-
verines.
"In the first two matches, we
weren't wrestling with the inten-
sity you need to wrestle with,"
McFarland said. "Our guys were
too tentative, thinking too much
instead of reacting. They weren't as
aggressive as they needed to be."
TheWolverines are in the middle
of a transition year. Seven of the 11

wrestlers who competed Saturday
were freshmen or sophomores, and
their inexperience may have been
the cause of their troubles against
Bloomsburg and American.
But youth didn't seem to be a
problem for sophomore co-cap-
tain Zac Stevens. Wrestling at 133
pounds, he won all three of his
matches. He easily took 10-1 and
5-1 decisions against Bloomsburg
and American and then came back
from an early deficit to win a 6-4
decision against his Penn oppo-
nent.
"Even when I was losing, I felt
like I was in control the whole
time," Stevens said. "Sometimes
a couple of things go against you
early in matches, but you can't
worry about them."

After Saturday's solid perfor-
mance, Stevens is now 8-2 in just
his second year in the program.
Biondo lived up to his No. 14
national ranking and finished 3-0
on the weekend. Phillips and red-
shirt sophomore Justin . Zeerip
were also impressive, winning two
of their three matches.
The Wolverines will compete
next at the Cliff Keen Las Vegas
Invitational in Primm, Nev. this
weekend.
"I'm looking forward to seeing
how the guys respond to the week-
end we just had and if they can use
some of the momentum from the
Penn match as a stepping stone
for next weekend," McFarland
said. It'll be another big step in our
growth as ateam."

4


4B - November 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *I

4B - November 30, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

0l

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Junior goaltender Bryan Hogan pokes away a puck from Wisconsin in the second period of Saturday's 3-2 win over Wisconsin. Hogan played a big role in the defense's efforts on the weekend, notching 63 saves in two games of work. With Hogan turning in a
strong performance, the Michigan defense was able to focus more on offense. This weekend, the Wolverine blue liners tallied seven points (one goal and six assists). Defenseman Brandon Brlon scored the goal for Michigan.

OffCSHOWCASE
Ofensive spark coiimes Fo

from beyond the blue
line in weekend sweep

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
For 12 games, the Michigan
hockey team's defensive corps was
downright offensive in the oppos-
ing zone - but not in the way the
Wolverines had hoped for at the
beginning of the season.
Michigan fell below .500. The
defense had just two goals and
was averaging under two points a
game.
For one of the most offensively
talented defensive units Michigan
coach Red Berenson has had in
years, it wasn't supposed to be that
way. The defense was expected to
fill the void left from the lack of a
true playmaker at forward.
But after a sweep of Minne-
sota and No. 15 Wisconsin in the
College Hockey Showcase, the
defense and the rest of the Wol-
verines are finally living up to
expectations.
This weekend, the blue liners
found the score sheet seven times,
with one goal and six assists. The
goal came during Friday's game
on the power play, when sopho-
more Brandon Burlon took a pass
at the top of the left circle and
rifled a slap shot that beat Gopher
goalie Alex Kangas on the blocker
side.
"It's good for our team," Beren-
son said. "We're fighting to score

goals and all the pressure is on our
forwards. When the 'D' can step
in and help generate offense with
a good play or a good shot, that's
huge."
The defensive unit as a whole
elevated its game - five of the
seven members recorded points.
The only players not to pad their
stats were pure defender Tristin
Llewellyn and senior Chris Sum-
mers, who came in tied for the
defenseman team lead in points.
The difference for the defense
this weekend had much to do with
the emergence of Michigan's for-
wards. The forwards have had
trouble scoring this season, but
they scored eight of the team's
nine goals in almost every way
imaginable, from breakaways to
putting it in off of a defenseman's
skate.
"I think it's just having more
trust in the forwards," Summers
said. "The forwards were coming
back a lot more this weekend, alot
more with a purpose, and I think
that makes a difference. We're
allowed to step up, make some
plays, gain a little bit of confidence
on the blue line. That could be
another turning point - that could
be a new aspect to our team."
The team effort clearly had a
leader on the weekend - senior
Steve Kampfer. After fracturing
his skull in an off-ice incident

early last season, Kampfer was
relegated to watching his Wolver-
ines lose to Wisconsin in the last
year's Showcase.
This year, he made his pres-
ence felt early. On the power play,
Kampfer hit junior Carl Hagelin in
the slot and Hagelin found junior
Matt Rust walking out of the cor-
ner for the first goal of the game.
The assist was one of Kampfer's
three on the weekend as he dou-
bled his output from the season's
first 12 games.
Kampfer didn't lose sight of his
primary responsibilities, either.
He finished the weekend with
a plus-four rating and played a
prominent role late in Saturday's
third period with Michigan up
2-1. After laying a huge hit on a
Wisconsin forward, he made a
diving clear to negate the Wiscon-
sin attack.
"We have to play solid defen-
sively first," Kampfer said. "As
soon as we get our defensive game
under us, I think that's when the
offense starts kicking in. I thought
that happened this weekend."
If the Wolverines (3-5-0 CCHA,
7-7-0 overall) want to move up
from 11th in the conference, they
will need to carry this weekend's
momentum into CCHA play. For
success to continue, the defense
will need to be "offensive" in the
truest sense of the word.

epitomized the team's playagainst
Minitesota and Wisconsin. Seven
minutes into the final frame, on
the penalty kill, junior Matt Rust
blocked a Gopher defenseman's
shot.
Rust then grabbed the loose
puck near the Wolverines' bench
HOCKEY
From page 1B
straight weekend sweeps.
Before the College Hockey
Showcase last season, captain
Chris Summers knew how impor-
tant the matchup was for the
Wolverines to turn around after a
slow start.
"It's going to be a huge test for
us," Summers said in Nov. 2008.
"I think we're goingto define our-
selves asa team this weekend."
The victory against then-No.
1 Minnesota sparked Michigan's
second-half run, finally giving
them-a winning mentality.
Although the competition might
not have been as highly ranked as

and dished it to a streaking Hage-
lin, who beat the Minnesota (5-8-
1) defense down the ice.
He then threw a backhand
five-hole on netminder Alex
Kangas.
While Rust's play didn't nec-
essarily show up as a substantial
statistic at the end of the game, it
was reflective of the Wolverines'
commitment to the defensive side
of the red line.
Forwards backchecking with
it was in past seasons, the Wolver-
ines' sweep of the College Hockey
Showcase should do exactly what
Summers said it would do one year
ago, define this team.
"It's a good turning point for
our team, but by no means are we
fully there yet," Summers said.
Berenson knew this team's con-
fidence had hit rock bottom. And
with his astounding track record,
the coach has shown again that he
knows how to turn a team around.
"It's another step in the right
direction," he said after Michi-
gan's 3-2 victory over Wisconsin.
"It gives us some confidence our
defense is playing better, our
goalie is playing better and the
forwards are really chipping in."
Two wins against underrated

a purpose, defensemen clearing
out loose rebounds in front of
junior goaltender Bryan Hogan
and players sacrificing their bod-
ies are all telltale signs of a defen-
sive-minded team.
"We're very close (to playing
Michigan hockey)," Glendening
said.
"We're headed in the right
direction. We just need to keep
building and not become compla-
cent."
non-conference teams maynot do
much for the Wolverines' record.
But this sweep is more important
than the team's other five wins.
The struggling power play,
ranked near the bottom of the
NCAA scored three goals. The
Wolverines' most prolific scorer
from last season, Louie Caporus-
so, notched two goals and added
an assist. And goaltender Bryan
Hogan, who boasted a mediocre
.887 save percentage, made 63
saves intwo games this weekend
and earned his first shutout of
the season against Minnesota on
Friday.
The Wolverines may not be
"back" just yet. But Berenson
sure has them playing"Michigan
hockey" once again.

0

Woodson gives large donation to
help Mott's Children's Hospital

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top 10 returns for its ninth installment this season. Each week, Daily
Sports staffers will fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place votes
receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with first-place votes in parentheses.

1. Florida (6): Did you expect
anything less in Tebow's final
game in the Swamp? They'll
sure miss him next year.
2. Texas (4): One thing stands
between Colt McCoy and a
Heisman and a championship.
Its name? Ndamukong Suh.
3. Alabama:'Bama may have
won the Iron Bowl, but we
don't see Mark Ingram with
fia Heisman any time soon.
4. Cincinnati (1): With a lone
No. 1 vote, it's clear this team
is for real. But is Brian Kelly
already thinking of South Bend?
5. TCU: We won't lie. We're
hoping for the Horned Frogs
in the'Ship. They'll be
Husker fans this weekend.

6. Boise State: Kellen
Moore for Heisman? Not
when your best game
comes against Idaho.
7. Oregon: Who else would
sell their kidney to see
the Civil War in Autzen
Stadium this week? Just us?
8. Ohio State: That loss to USC
doesn't look so good anymore.
Neither does Purdue. But hey,
maybe we're just jealous.
9. Penn State: Daryll Clark
maybe gone next year,
but the Blue Royster Cult
will still be in full effect.
10. Iowa: It seems like a long
time ago when the Hawkeyes
had Rose Bowl hopes. Hey, at
least they're going bowling.

ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -
Charles Woodson wants to be
known as more than a football
player.
Donating $2 million to the new
University of Michigan Mott Chil-
dren's Hospital and Women's Hos-
pital gives him a chance to do that.
The school announced Wood-
son'sgift on Thanksgiving before
he played for the Green Bay Fack-
ers against the Detroit Lions.
Then, he intercepted two pass-
es - returning one for a score -
forced a fumble, recovered it and
had a sack.
"It was a good day," Woodson
said after Green Bay's 34-12 win in
Detroit.
His donation will support pedi-
atric research by The Charles
Woodson Clinical Research Fund
in the $754-million, 1.1-million
square foot hospital scheduled to
open in 2012.
"He's really studied and tried to
understand what the issues are in
doing research in pediatrics," Dr.
valerie Castle said. "What most
people don't know is that less than
10 percent of the National Insti-
tute of Health budget goes toward
research in pediatric disease.
"When you study those patients,
you often times get clues to adult
diseases."
Woodson hopes to attract the
world's best researchers who want
to help children with cancer, heart
disease, kidney disorders and
autism.
"I want to be part of that symbol
of hope," Woodson said. "So that
they can say,'I know I can beatthis
thing and there's people out there

APPHOTO
Former Wolverine Charles Woodson visits a young patient at Mott Hospital.

who will help me beat it.'
Woodson said during a visit
to Ann Arbor earlier this month
that becoming a father in January
motivated him to make the gift,
altering his outlook on life.
"It can change a lot," he said.
Lloyd Carr, his coach at Michi-
gan, hopes Woodson's gift pushes
his peers to also give back.
"I think it's going to have a sig-
nificant influence across the ath-
letic world that he decided to do
this," Carr said.
Woodson acknowledged feeling
awkward about allowing a Fox TV
reporter and crew to follow him as
he visited patients on a day off in
November, but said it was part of
his mission.
"Half of the battle is about
awareness," Woodson said. "When
I signed on board to be a part of

this team, that was going to be part
of the deal. Part of making it work
is me being a face or spokesman.
"I guess what bigger days can
we do it to bring awareness to the
cause when everybody is watching
a Thanksgiving Day game?"
The native of Fremont, Ohio,
helped Michigan win the national
championship in 1997. He won the
Heisman Trophy as a cornerback
who also played wide receiver and
returned punts.
His memories from college on
and off the field led to him giving
back financially.
"It was probably best three
years of my life that I can remem-
ber, other than having my son,"
Woodson said. "When people still
see me, even though I have been in
Green Bay and Oakland, they still
talk about Michigan."

0
0
0
0


