411iC4il an 4,3at l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, September 21, 2009

michigandaily.com

FLYING HIGH, BUT NO LONGER PERFECT

STUDENT DEBT
New credit
card rules
hit campus
Free giveaways for 2004, accordingto Sigler.
As reported in The Michigan
students banned, Daily in February, under that
contract, the Alumni Association
along with tables provides Bank of America with
student and alumni information
set up on campuses in exchange for revenue for the
Alumni Association based on the
By NICOLE ABER number of credit card accounts
Daily Staff Reporter opened.
Sigler said the Alumni Associa-
Maxed out student credit cards tion has been working with Bank
might soon become a thing of the of America over the past several
past. months to develop plans to mod-
Or, at least that is part of the ify the way the bank works with
goal of new legislation that is the University to fit the terms of
expected to go into full effect at the legislation. This includes ter-
the start of the new year that will minating direct mail marketing
limit the possibilities for students to students - which Sigler said
under the age of 21 to open credit Bank of America hasn't done in
accounts nationwide. The new over a year - and not setting up
rules, which were signed into law tables around campus as the bank
by President Barack Obama in had done in the past, though there
May, tighten restrictions on cred- will still be tables in Michigan
it card companies trying to raise Stadium.
interest rates and curb the ways Though the Alumni Associa-
in which companies can market tion will be required under con-
credit cards to teenagers and col- tract to make these changes,
lege students. Sigler said the changes aren't far
Underage students will have from the way things are already
to prove they have the essential run.
assets and income to pay off a "The kinds of changes they
credit card, and banks will no would need to make in their mar-
longer be allowed to provide give- keting campaigns more or less are
aways on campuses in exchange already being made," he said.
for students opening a credit Sigler said the new legisla-
account. tion will just reinforce the main
Jerry Sigler, senior vice presi- goal with the Bank of America
dent and CFO of the University's agreement, which is to market
Alumni Association, said the the bank's card to alumni. He
contract the University has with acknowledged, however, that
Bank of America will not be sig- current students are also eligible
nificantly affected by the new leg- for the card, but the bank's direct
islation because it mostly targets targeting of students will now be
alumni. more limited.
The University currently has a Under the current Bank of
$25 million,10-year contract with America agreement, there are
Bank of America that started in See CREDIT RULES, Page 8A

Senior outside hitter Juliana Paz serves against Oregon State at Crisler Arena on Saturday, Entering the game, Michigan was undefeated and ranked No, 6 in the nation.
Unranked Oregon State swept the Wolverines, ending Michigan's 52-game regular season, non-conference win streak. For more, see SportsMonday, Page B.
'U' alum traverses cout ry,byfo

Fairchild embarks
on journey raising
money to fight MS
By A. BRAD SCHWARTZ
Daily StaffReporter
University alum Joe Fairchild
arrived in Ann Arbor last Tuesday
for what could have been a simple
four-day visit. Only, rather than
arriving by car, bus or Amtrak train,
Fairchild walked into town pushing
the modified baby stroller he's been
living out of since early August.
Fairchild's stop in AnnArbor was
a briefrespite from his months-long
journey across the United States, a
fundraising effort to raise money

for multiple sclerosis, an autoim-
mune disease that attacks the cen-
tral nervous system.
A graduate of the class of 2006,
Fairchild started to seriously pur-
sue running when he came to
college, inspired by his younger
brother, who was then running
track in high school.
Last May, having not run seri-
ously for some time, Fairchild real-
ized he needed to challenge himself
and soon called his brother.
"(My brother) was talking about
training for another (marathon),"
Fairchild said, "and he said, 'We
should run across the country or
something like that,' almost as a
joke."
The more Fairchild thought
See FAIRCHILD, Page 7A

THE ROUTE
START: Boston, MA
University alum Joe Fairchild I Ann Arbor, MI
started in Boston on August 8 and i Chicago,.IL
hopes to end up in Los Angeles St. Louis, MO
hope toeod pinLos ngeeo } Tulsa, OK
by the end ofthe year. Here's his Flagstaff, AZ
tentative route, FINISH: Los Angles, CA


Through profs' eyes: What's
happening in Afghanistan?

Editor's Note: Today the Daily debuts
a new series, "OfflceHours,"in which
we sit down with experts on campus
to discuss important stories of the
day. The goal of the series, which will
runperiodically throughout the year,
is to distill current affairs and events
into their most significant parts
through quotes and explanations
from these experts. We begin with
last month's much-disputed Afghan
presidential elections.
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily Staff Reporter
Afghanistan's presidential elec-
tions were held over a month ago.
But a winner has still not been
announced among the three top
contenders, incumbent President
Hamid Karzai, former Foreign
Minister Abdullah Abdullah and
RamazanBashardost. Instead, accu-
sations of voter fraud and other dis-
crepancies have swirled, serving
only to compligte and destabilize an
already confusing and delicate situa-
tion. Because of the controversy, the
country's United Nations-backed
Electoral Complaints Commission
has recently begun the process of
recounting and investigating about
10 percent of polling places to find
evidence ofballet-box stuffing,

As these events unfold, The Mich-
igan Daily sat down with four of the
University's top Middle East experts
to try and make sense of it all.
Juan Cole, professor of Middle
Eastern and South Asian History at
the University, said the election was
at first seen as an exit strategy for
the United States from its involve-'
ment in the country. Without a
stable Afghan government with
the power to control the Taliban,
though, the United States can't end
its military occupation, Cole said.
But because the election has
been destabilizing, Cole said, the
U.S. occupation in the country will
only be prolonged.
"The election has turned into a
full-scale fiasco for Washington,"
he said.
The Independent Election
Commission of Afghanistan ini-
tially reported that Hamid Karzai
received the majority of the vote
with 54.6 percent, beating out
Afghanistan's former Foreign Min-
ister Abdullah Abdullah, who gar-
nered 27.8 percent of the vote.
Cole said that, although Karzai's '
majority implies he should be the
new president, if the Afghanistan
Electoral Complaints Commission
determines there was voter fraud,
a runoff will be held.

Election officials have said that
the current recount could last as
long as three months.
History Profs. Ronald Suny and
Jonathan Marwil argue that the
United States cared more about the
transparency of the election and
the end goal of transferring power
than the actual results.
"Either (candidate) would have

MARKETING STUDENT LIFE
Hired help: Campus tours go pro
Experts turn visits In efforts to meet enrollment Evangelist" with TargetX, esti-
goals and enhance their campus mates that he has visited and
into big business, images, schools like American advised hundreds of schools, and
University, Albion College, North- he claims that all of them have
but not here ern Michigan University and Ohio reported positive impacts from
State University have enlisted the his advice.
By TORREY JOSEPH help of TargetX, a private consult- Greg Grauman, acting director
ARMSTRONG ing firm that offers campus visit of admissions at American Univer-
Daily StaffReporter audits. In an audit, a representa- sity, said the changes suggested by
tive from the firm participates in TargetX were beneficial for guides
The breathless, backpedaling a campus tour and later reports on and prospective students.
tour guide is disappearing quickly its strengths and weaknesses to "Our tour guides are more con-
from college campuses across the the school. fident now that they walk forward
nation. But not here. Jeff Kallay, an "Experience See TOURS, Page 7A

ANNA BAKEMAN/Dail,
Guy Louis teaches his audience about the mandolin at the Ann Arbor District Library yesterday. Guy Louis calls his program
"Chautauqua Express" and he gives interactive performances to teach children about music and instruments.

WEATHER H I:83 GOTANEWSTIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS........2A ARS..............................5A
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Nursing senior saves boyfriend's life while hiking Vol. CXX, No.10 SU DO KU....... ...........3 A CLASSI F EDS .....................6A
TOMORROW . LO: f61 news@michigandaily.com and let usknow. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE ©209 TheMichigan Daily OPINION. .............4A SPOITS MONDAY............g
-micbiadilycvm" " ""1


'2A - Monday, September 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, September 21, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom I

TU ESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWM AN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaity.com tmdbusiness@gnnail.com

U of Minnesota administers breath tests to fansI EMPOWERED WITH PEACE

In an effort to combat dronken
behavior at University of Minne-
sota football games, the school has
implemented a new policy requir-
ing stodents who get kicked ot of a
game to pass an alcohol breath test
before the next game, according to
The Associated Press.
The program, called Check BAG,
was inspired by a similar policy
introdoced at the University of
Wisconsin five years ago. Accord-
ing to the AP, the role applies to
all of the school's 10,000 student
season-ticket holders.
Minnesota Vice Provost for Stu-
dent Affairs Jerry Reinhart told
the AP that the intention was not
to make trooble for every stodent
who consumes alcohol before the
game.
"If people come in with a buzz
on - there will be tailgating -
that's fine as long as their behavior
doesn't interfere with those aroond
them," he said.

NOTRE DAME TO DISSOLVE
HETERODOX SIDE OF
ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT
The University of Notre Dame
plans to end an experiment that cre-
ated two economics departments,
The Chronicle of Higher Education
reported.
University leaders accepted the
schism in 2003 after "a long series of
quarrels over methods and ideology.'
One faction of faculty members
wentto Economics and Policy Studies,
"a heterodox department that made
room for post-Keynesians, Marxians
and historians of economic thought,"
the Chronicle reported. Heterodox
views stray from an acknowledged
standard.
The others went to Economics and
Econometrics, "a more mainstream
department with an emphasis on
quantitative tools."
University officials said what start-
ed as an experiment has now clearly

failed, and they plan to dissolve the
"heterodox" department within two
years.
STUDENTS IN BEIJING PROTEST
DETENTION OF TEACHER
About 100 students assembled out-
side a Beijing police bureau yesterday
to protest the detention of a lecturer
and demand his release, The Associ-
ated Press reported.
The lecturer, Ding Xiaoping, was
a leader of the 1989 Tiananmen dem-
onstrations. He teaches at several uni-
versities.
Recent graduate Yu Zhiwei said
Deng had been taken Saturday after-
noon because the government saw
him as a threat to the upcoming cel-
ebration of the Communist republic's
60oth anniversary.
"He was taken away for political
reasons. The police want to limit his
activity," Yu said.
- MATT AARONSON

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsronm
News Tips
Correctins
Letters la the Editor
Phntngraphy Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sparta Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

Officehours:Sun.-Thurs. 11 .m. -2 a..
news@miciadaiy.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@xichigandaiy.zom
photo@michigandiy.com
artspage@michligandaily.com

display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
otineads@michigandaiy.oo

ANN6 BAKMA/Daily
Activist 'Truth be told' gives a speech at Peace Day pat an
by Students Empowering Stadents yesterday.

CRIME NOTES
Man rides bus, Fan thrown out
breaks window for fake MCard

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Poker Bowling Club
tournament competition

WHERE: Baits II
WHEN: Friday at about 2:10
WHIAT: After exiting a bus, a
male subject walked toward
the back and broke out a win-
dow, University Police report-
ed. The subject is currently in
custody.,

WHERE: Michigan Stadium,
Gate 10
WHEN: Saturday at about
12:2S p.m.
WHAT: A male attempted to
enter Michigan Stadium with
a MCard that didn't belong to
him, University Police report-
ed. He was denied entrance.

WHAT:.Play Texas hold 'em
with other students for a
chance to win prizes. Free
to enter.
WHO: Michigan Union
Billiards
WHEN: Tonight from 6 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
Beanster's Cafe

WHAT: Competitive bowl-
ers will bowl against each
other. The cost is $5 for non-
members.
WHO: Michigan Union
Billiards
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Colonial Lanes
Country

Big House trash Clothes taken
catches fire from laundry
WHERE: Michigan Stadium, WHERE: Alice Lloyd Resi-
Section 9 dence Hal
WHEN: Saturday at about WHEN: Saturday at about
12:10 p.m. 10:20 p.m.
WHAT: A trash can caught WHAT: A female student's
fire during a football game, clothes were stolen from a
University Police reported., washing machine, University
Water was poured on the can police reported. The clothes
to extinguish the flames. were worth about $115.
MORE ONLINE'
Love Crime Notes? Get more onlinesat michigandaly.com/blogs/the wire

Circle K masscoer

1A man was arrested Fri-
day afternoon for hiding
cocaine in the pockets of
his 4-year-old son's jacket and
telling him it was candy, the
Star Ledger reported. The boy
handed out the drugs to his
classmates, and one girl ate it.
2The Michigan women's
volleyball team lost
its first game this year
against Oregon State after
losing three straight sets.
The team is ranked No. 6.
> *OR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGEl1B
3Two teenage boys turned
in nearly $100,000 in
cash to the police that
they found while fishing on
the banks of Tuntable Creek in
New South Wales, ABC news
reported. Police urge anyone
who thinks the cash is theirs
to come forward.

Finante finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Rat kowiak ManagngEditor rantkoiak@xtcigzodzity~com
Jacob tnioitzrsuanagingNes Editor silovitz~michigandzily.czm
SEsIsOsoWn EDITRS: Mato, sonJillia, n ra,Tevor Caero, 5,,nna
ASSISTANT NoWSEOSNiovlje As's, MallorJone,Emily O'ley, Stphaie
Steibr, Enhwar Thiruno,,kkarao
RobertlSoave EdistoroPgetEditor save@oichizaodaity.o
ASOCIAEEOIovAL AGE EDTOS: EiyBro,rinFlahery, RacheVa ilder
Aody Reid ManagigeSportsEdtoae reid@eidhigandzttyrcox
sSIOSPORS EORSviol ie Auerbac, Mi sentei, Ian Kay, Ruth
Linol, e rosperi
o:'te, Chi Mesza:ros,nPdges
DaoidWatnick MooogogAt dtore eanickt@michiandailycom
SENIvOARS EDITORS: aiBoc:0k,BrandonConradi, WhitneyPow
ASIeSTAsOAooSooITOR oshua Bayro:, Caonn:,eki,A,,drewLapin, David~iva
Zachnary Meisner and photz@michigazndaityvcom
Clit Reeder Managig PhooEditors
SNIvRrPOTO EDITvORS: idAlsalah,CeVonvHaobsburLothingen
ASSISTANs rOvoaEITOoS: MCllin,Chisobk, Sam Wolson
AngelatChih and dein@michgandzilycom
Maureen Stydi Manaighotdtrs
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazioneEditorvoserchian@micthigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchrell copy chief mitchetl@michiandaity.com
ASSssOCAT CPYCEF: elan ried,di Wollsein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Ss:Manager
SAL05ESOCEANE:Musssoly Tigg
Ryan Dasioski tlassified Managr
CLASSIID AS~SITNT MANAGER: ala Lar
Ben English PreoucosManaer
Allison Santacres LayoutiManager
Vioian LeerFinance Mnaoger
Brittany Morales Circultin Manager
Brad Wiley PsroctCoordinator
The Mihia aiytSSNt756)1ispblshedonday hrouh Frdaydurgthe al adinter
termv bystuhdents at te esity aofcian. One opy osavaiablefreofchargeto al reders.
Addtioalpesmay be piked p t:t Diy'soe or1$.tubscritin fr fllterstng in
Sptebe,ia.. aiare10iter iterm(nuar troghApil) is , arog(eptemer
throh Api i$19.nvnersit affiiataresbeco edusedaubpioin rate, Oncamus
sbitoin o r fal ltermae$35. Subscrptins mstbe prpad. The Miganniis amemereof
TheAsiteudPss ndThAsocatd Coiwatees.

4

meeting
WHAT: Help Circle K reach
its goals of performing
10,000 hours of community
service this year. Learn how
to get involved in projects on
campus and in Ann Arbor.
WHO: Circle K
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Anderson Room

WHAT: Canadian alterna-
tive country songwriter Fred
Eaglesmith will perform in
a solo concert. Tickets cost
$20.
WHO: University Union Arts
& Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily~com.

-M




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 21, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, September 21, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Michigan police
ask residents to
monitor marijuana
Law enforcement officials
want outdoor enthusiasts in
Michigan to be alert for possible
marijuana growing and harvest-
ing operations this fall.
The Michigan Domestic Can-
nabis Eradication and Suppres-
sion Program says fall hunting
seasons bring more people into
the woods, making it more like-
ly someone will spot marijuana
being grown or harvested.
Officials say to watch for
unusual amounts of traffic; use
of camping equipment or rec-
reational vehicles on wooded*
property with no evidence of rec-
reational activities; and patrolled
or guarded woods or swamps.
Other signs include large
amounts of PVC piping, irriga-
tion hoses or plastic planters in
heavily wooded areas.
SPOKANE, Wash.
Killer escapes from
organized field trip
A helicopter clattered over
transient camps and rail yards
in the expanding search for an
insane killer as investigators tried
to determine whether he planned
his getaway from a field trip orga-
nized by a mental hospital.
Phillip Arnold Paul left little
clothing in his room at East-
ern State Hospital and carried a
backpack and $50 from a Social
Security check when he vanished
Thursday at the Spokane County
International Fair, sheriff's Sgt.
Dave Reagan said.
The field trip to the fair, which
included 30 other patients, is
an annual event that Paul easily
could have anticipated, Reagan
told The Spokesman-Review
newspaper.
Because of the extra cloth-
ing Paul had, it's reasonable
to assume he has changed his
appearance, Reagan said.
Paul, 47, was committed after
he was diagnosed as schizo-
phrenic and acquitted by rea-
son of insanity in the slaying of
an elderly woman in Sunnyside,
Wash., in 1987. He soaked her
body in gasoline to throw off
search dogs.
KHARTOUM, Sudan
r Sudan claims
victories in Darfur
The Sudanese army said yes-
terday it has cleared several more
areas of rebel control in North
Darfur province ahead of peace
talks set for October. Rebels de-
nied the government claims.
The state news agency quoted
the military saying it had target-
ed in particular the Sudan Liber-
ation Army of exiled rebel leader
Abdelwahid Elnur, the largest
rebel movement.
There was no word about ca-
sualties, only that the army had
"purged the areas of the rem-

nants" of the rebels.
The government claims could
not be independently verified.
They follow rebel reports of in-
tense fighting in the area starting
Thursday. SLA members said at
least three of their fighters were
r killed and many civilians were
displaced.
HAVANA, Cuba
Cuba peace concert
attracts thousands
Hundreds' of thousands of
Cubans flocked to sprawling
Revolution Plaza yesterday for
an open-air "peace concert"
headlined by Colombian rocker
Juanes, an event criticized by
some Cuban-Americans who say
the performers are lending sup-
port to the island's communist
government simply by showing
up.
Organizers say they expect
as many as half a million people
to attend the four-hour concert
under a broiling Havana sun,
making the Colombian heart-
throb's visit the biggest by an
outsider since Pope John Paul
Il's 1998 tour.
Hundreds of public buses fer-
ried young and old to the concert
site, and the government laid on
even more transportation, hop-
ing for a large turnout.
Most concertgoers wore white
- to symbolize peace - and some
held up signs reading "Peace
on Earth" and "We Love You
Juanes."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama says Russia not
reason for defense cuts

President questioned
after eliminating
missile defense
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama sharply dis-
misses criticism that Russian
opposition influenced his deci-
sion to scrap a European missile
defense system, calling it merely
a bonus if the leaders of Russia
end up "a little less paranoid"
about the U.S.
"My task here was not to nego-
tiate with the Russians," Obama
told CBS' "Face the Nation" in an
interview for broadcast yesterday.
"The Russians don't make deter-
minations about what our defense
posture is."
The president's comments were
his first on the matter since he
abruptly announced on Thurs-

day that he was scuttling plans to
deploy 10 missile interceptors in
Poland and a related radar in the
Czech Republic. That shield had
been proposed under President
George W. Bush.
Russia condemned it is a threat
to its security despite years of U.S.
assurances to the contrary.
In its place will be a different
missile-defense plan relying on
a network of sensors and inter-
ceptor missiles based at sea, on
land and in the air. Obama says
that adapts to the most pressing
threat from Iran to U.S. troops
and allies in Europe, potential
attacks by short- and medium-
range missiles.
Yet athome and abroad,Obama's
decision immediately raised a
political question of whether it
was done in part to appease Rus-
sia and win its help in other areas,
mainly in confronting the poten-

tial of a nuclear-armed Iran. That
point was underscored when Rus-
sia lauded the change.
To Sen. Lindsey Graham, a
South Carolina Republican who
is on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, "This is going to be
seen as a capitulation to the Rus-
sians, who had no real basis to
object to what we were doing. And-
at the end of the day you emipow-
ered the Russians, you made Iran
happy and you made the people in
Eastern Europe wonder who we
are as Americans."
In the CBS interview taped Fri-
day, Obama was pressed on why he
did not seek anything in exchange
from Russia.
"Russia had always been para-
noid about this, but George Bush
was right. This wasn't a threat
to them," Obama said. "And this
program will not be a threat to
them."

New York Gov. David Paterson (middle) marches alongside New York City May-
oral candidate Bill Thompson (left) yesterday during the African American Day
Parade in New York.
Goverilor refuses to
drop out of election



ran a rI- rn rA 4774 1 r $-A n-r'r'-iLcrV


Paterson will run in
2010 despite White
House opposition
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) - Gov.
David Paterson isn't scrapping
his plans to run for the office he
inherited 18 months ago, despite
growing pressure from Washing-
ton and intervention by the Rev.
Al Sharpton, who has contact-
ed the governor and the White
House over his concern.
"My plans for 2010 are to run
for governor of the state of New
York," Paterson said yesterday
after serving as grand marshal
to the African-American Day
Parade in Manhattan. "I am run-
ning for office."
Paterson's remarks come amid
mounting pressure from Wash-
ington and within New York to
drop out because of his low poll
numbers and concerns from
other Democrats that he might
hurt their chances in 2010.
"I think the White House is
very concerned about 2010," said
Lee Miringoff of the Marist Col-
lege poll, which last week found
Paterson mired in some of the
lowest approval ratings of any
New York governor.
"They are worried that Pat-

erson's pick for the U.S. Sen-
ate, (Kirsten) Gillibrand, might
be vulnerable," Miringoff said.
"Theyare also worried they might
lose that seat and they want the
head of the ticket to be stronger
than Paterson's numbers are."
Asked if he was concerned
about losing some Democratic
support because of his low poll
numbers, Paterson said: "No,
I feel like in this very difficult
economic time, just about all the
governors are facing the same
types of problems."
But the signals from Wash-
ington Democrats may be what
Attorney General Andrew
Cuomo, riding high in the polls,
needs to increase fundraising
for a possible run for governor.
Cuomo has refused to challenge
Paterson so far and has declined
to say if he will seek the job held
by New York's first black and
legally blind governor.
"The White House is giving
Cuomo all the political cover he
needs to get in this," Miringoff
said.
In addition to governor, every
statewide office and the major-
ity of state Senate seats will be
decided in the 2010 elections.
A Cuomo spokesman wouldn't
respond to requests for comment
yesterday.
s 4o'

TO OUR 31E SCHOLARS ON THE
277 A YVERSAR./
OF OUR CLASS of 1931 ENGINEERING SCHOLARSHIPS M
The class of '31E and its Scholarship Selection Committee congratulates --
and welcomes their SEVEN new scholarship winners for the 2009-2010
academic year: ALEC COHEN
REBECCA FRANK
MARISSA MANTEY
PATRICIA McCORMICK
DARIN McLESKEY
KUNAL MEHTA
BENJAMIN RIZZO
They will be joining the '31E HONOR SOCIETY and our FIFTEEN current scholars:
ROSS BARNOWSKI ASHLEY POLLOCK
JONATHAN CARENDER NEAL RAKESH
CHIAO-YANG HSIAQ MICHAEL REINKER
SHAYAAN KHANNA BRIAN RUMAO
MICHAEL KRUG IAN STUART-HOFF
SHANE LARKIN ANTHONY TRICOZZI
DANIEL PATRICK VERONICA WARD
KAITLYN PEALE
All of these scholars will be honored this month at the 78'Annual Reunion Dinner of the Class of '31E, which
will be held at the Four Points Sheraton Inn, Ann Arbor, MI on Friday evening, September 25, 2009 at 5:30 PM.
Since the establishment of the '31E Scholarship Program in 1982, more than 140 aspiring engineering students
have been helped to experience a University of Michigan education and have gone on to rewarding careers.
George E. Anderson
Director of Media Relations

H PV Fact:

n0-rU-

that each


ANN ARBOR'S NEWEST THING
SELF SERVE FROZEN YOGURT
002.


4A - Monday, September 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

L74t lWtc4t*pan,43at*(p


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Life without justice
Prevalence of teenagers given life sentences a travesty
There are 10,944 inmates in Michigan, and 346 are serv-
ing a life sentence without parole for crimes committed as
teenagers, according to the state Department of Correc-
tions. A recent study by the University of Texas cites Michigan as
the second-highest number of juveniles serving life without parole
in the country. This alarming statistic reflects a fundamental injus-
tice in the state's corrections system, and news that the legislature
may ban such practices could not have come soon enough. Michi-
gan's excessive number of teens facing life sentences is appalling
and must be corrected by either state law or favorable Supreme
Court rulings in two crucial cases.

4

The state House of Representatives Judi-
ciary Committee has held two hearings on
bills relating to the University of Texas's
findings. The bills would abolish life-with-
out-parole sentences for offenders under
18 years old or commute those sentences to
include the possibility of parole. The com-
mittee hopes to present a collection of bills
to the full House later this fall.
An effort to prohibit life-without-parole
sentencing for minors is desperately need-
ed. In 2005, the Supreme Court ruled the
death penalty unconstitutional for minors,
based partially on research by Dr. Dorothy
Otnow Lewis that found a large number of
juvenile offenders on death row in Texas
were products of abuse, suffered mental
illnesses or exhibited signs of brain dys-
function, among other problems. It's unjust
to sentence juveniles as adults when they
don't think, behave or react in the same
way that adults do.
And aside from treating teenagers
unfairly, life without parole is a self-defeat-
ing policy for any corrections system. The
purpose of the corrections system should"
be to rehabilitate offenders, not simply
punish them. But forcing juveniles to
spend the rest of their lives in prison with
no hope of returning to society explicitly
precludes rehabilitation. The state prison
system should work toward reforming
young offenders and giving them a second-
JASON MAHAKIAN

chance to contribute to society as adults
who have learned from their mistakes.
Luckily, ifthebills failtopass, there's still
hope. Two U.S. Supreme Court cases that
will be heard in November could address
the issue of teenagers in prison nationwide.
The first case, Graham v. Florida, involves
a 16-year-old currently serving life with-
out parole for armed home robbery. In the
other case, Sullivan v. Florida, a 13-year-
old boy was convicted for sexual battery.
Both cases argue that life without parole
sentences for juveniles who didn't commit
homicide violates the Eighth Amendment,
which protects citizens against "cruel and
unusual punishment."
The Supreme court should realize, as it
did in 2005, that teenagers can't be held
accountable for their actions to the same
extent adults can. Leaving them to rot
behind bars for the rest of their lives does
not serve the true purpose of the correc-
tions system as a method of rehabilita-
tion. To recognize society's responsibility
to juveniles, life sentences without parole
forjtveniles should be found unconStith-
tional.
If the Supreme Court fails to reject juve-
nile sentences without parole, the Michi-
gan legislature should be ready with its
own legislation to save young people from
a life behind bars without any hope of
redemption.
E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU

I don't count on them"
- President Barack Obama, commenting on the possibility of Republican support for
health care reform in Congress, as reported yesterday by the New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI j E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
Then he asked aosit he NOBODY PUTS SWAYZ
Iays to the bartenderi funeral, and I sad !N A CORONER'S! -ieA
anoooo mae. Point Break FUNERAL!E..
wste pinacle ofkbohthir -And whateer integrity
reersP dea tsay_ once hads now gone,
o X * '
oi+ Q 0 0 t.to i
Lights, camera, losses
orry, film students - you're not tives are clearly enjoying all the free Other states, including Louisiana and
goingto like what I have to say. cash - about $48 million in 2008 and New Mexico, were offering film incen-
I know that on the surface, expected to reach $200 million in the tives before Michigan was. Michigan
Michigan's sub- next two years, according to a June 4 essentially stole their thunder, but
sidies for the film Detroit News article. there's no reason that another state
industry seem like But despite all the money Michi- won't turn around and do the same
a really good idea. gan has spent on the movie industry, thingto this state. Then we won't even
I know that all you this friends with benefits relationship keep those 254 jobs - and the-state
prospective actors is only going one way. Last February, will be out hundreds of millions of
and screenwriters Michigan State University published dollars.
are thrilledthatyou a study on the economic impact of the
can suddenly find subsidies. The study found that the
work on movie sets ROBERT incentives had created 2,763 jobs that
without having to SOAVE lasted about 23 days - the usual dura- M ichigan's film
move to California. tion of filming for these movies. This c
Maybe you even translates to about 254 year-round incentives aren't
got to appear as an jobs. That's right: 254 jobs for $48 mil-
extra in a scene with Hilary Swank or lion. W orth the costs.
Drew Barrymore, who both had films Thestudythengoesonto assertthat
produced in Ann Arbor under the based on its economic models, a "mul-
film subsidies. Even Ralph Williams, tiplier" effect will indirectly produce
famed University English professor, more jobs down the line. But Michael And when I say the state, I'm really
got to be ina movie. LaFaive, a fiscal expertcwriting forthe talking about the state's residents. The
But all this movie-mania fun has Mackinac Center for Public Policy on money for the film subsidies doesn't
a cost. The only reason that the film- June 12, pointed out that these eco- come out of a magic box - it's being
makers have temporarily located to nomic models didn't take into account taken out of the paychecks and profits
the Great Lakes state (or the "Free what the incentives cost the state. "If of struggling Michigan workers and
Money" state, as movie executives the proponents of film subsidies attri- small businesses. And while it may be
are probably referring to Michigan in bute a multiplier effect on the benefit true that local communities who were
their meetings) is because we're pay- side, they must also acknowledge the lucky enough to land a movie deal are
ing them to hang out here. And as soon same effect on the cost side," he wrote. benefiting, everyone else in the'state
as the money runs out or some other LaFaive stressed that a similar nulti- can barely afford to live here.
state offers slightly better subsidies, plier on the costs side might very well Besides, when free market econo-
the film industry will dump us. Hol- have discovered a net loss of jobs and a mists and Michael Moore agree on
lywood will come away a little richer diminishing of the economy. something, doesn't that mean it has to
and Michigan none the wiser. - - And it isn't just fiscal expe'f§ who kind of be true?
Michigan has been paying movie are saying this. Kathy Hoekstra, also Michigan is facing a $2 billion
stars to be its friends since April of the Mackinac Center for Pub- budgetary deficit this year. Yeah, it's
of 2008, when the state legislature lic Policy, reported last July that at cool that movies are being filmed on
approved the country's most generous a Traverse City forum on the film campus. But the state can't afford the
film incentive program - a 42 percent incentives, Michael Moore directed bribes it takes to keep the film industry
tax rebate on all in-state expenses a question to Michigan Film Office here. As the state legislature attempts
for movies being filmed in Michigan. Director Janet Lockwood. Moore to come up with a passable budget in
The idea was that Michigan needed observed that, "These are large mul- the next few weeks, I hope they can
to produce something beside cars, so tinational corporations... Why do they summon the courage to kick the film
why not make it movies? Film crews need our money, from Michigan, from executives off the state's couch -
would frequent local businesses like our taxpayers, when we're already before these moviemakers leave town
hotels and restaurants, create jobs broke here? I mean, they play one with even more of our millions.
and help diversify the economy. And state against the other, and so they get
with almost thirty films produced in all this free cash when they're making - Robert Soave is the editorial
Michigan last year and at least forty billions already in profits." page editor. He can be reached
more, in the works, movie execu- Moore is making a great point here. at rsoave@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Harsha Panduranga, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

Co EANt2je

4

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

New beats are too much
for Big House

cherish - punct
hardly necessar
line" and "Don':
che it's almost la
We're better tha

TO THE DAILY: I want to ma
After reading the Daily article about the not asa curmud,
piped-in music at the Big House (Reactions still consider my
to the Big House's New Beats, 09/17/2009), alum (age 33), an
I simply have one request: enough already, Ann.Arbor that
make it stop! While I appreciate your mar- home in Washir
keting perspective of keeping up with beloved Wolveri
the Jones's and mimicking our peers, we ball Saturdays eA
already are the Leaders and Best! Must we Like so many4
really follow the rest and embrace every live far away, o
cliche, tacky habit of big time sports? spirit, enthusias
I was most upset by Assistant Athletic endless pride. It
Director Mark Riordan's comments about many decision-s
the need for music as we await the team every trend and
running out of the tunnel. I've attended Twittering, Yoi
Michigan football games since 1986, and "Temptation",
I still get goosebumps in those moments "Let's Go Blue
after the band ceases playing and 110,000 and the legenda
Wolverines anticipate the winged hel- need on gamec
mets bursting out of the tunnel and run- and Oregon Sta
ning under the Go Blue Banner. Does this and "Don't Stop
invigorating, iconic moment really require our history and
accompaniment by 90s arena-rock like marching band
AC/DC's "Thunderstruck"? I suggest not. fill the Big Hoi
The band having just completed "The Vic- Michigan herit
tors," impromptu chants of "Let's Go Blue" rock.
throughout the stadium, and that quiet
anticipation of the team emerging through Stuart Berlow
the tunnel is a moment all true Wolverines Alum

uating it with trite music is
y. Seriously, "Sweet Caro-
t Stop Believin"' are so cli-
ughable and embarrassing.
an that. We're Michigan!
ake clear that I write this
geonly, gray-haired alum. I
yself to be a relatively young
nd cherish the eight trips to
I make each year from my
rgton, DC to cheer on my
ines on those fleeting Foot-
very Fall.
other Michigan alums who
ur school's rich tradition,
m and excellence provides
is so disheartening that so
makers feel we must chase
fad that emerges from our
uTube, reality TV world.
"Hawaiian War Chant",
", "Bullwinkle", "Varsity"
ry "The Victors" are all we
days. Let Purdue, Rutgers
te have "Sweet Caroline"
Believin"'. Let's embrace
tradition, let our amazing
fire up the crowd and let's
use's quiet moments with
age, not Australian arena

Military strength makes
liberal li fe possible
TO THE DAILY:
I recently read Anna Sheppard's
response to your articles about the Univer-
sity's "darker history" (Military research is
cutting edge and saves lives, 09/14/2009).
Since weapons researched at universities
have secured my First Amendment rights,
I'll take the time now to exercise them.
I am a veteran of Operation Iraqi Free-
dom, serving at Camp Ramadi from March
to December 2008. I have pretty much
come to terms with the fact that my liberal-
ism and Ann Arbor's really don't match. In
fact, socialism seems to be the order of the
day rather than good old American demo-
cratic-republican liberalism.
Killing people is a very dirty business,
and waris something that should generally
be avoided. However, if you like drinking
alcohol, not having a state-imposed cur-
few on a Friday evening, extra-marital sex
or being a college student at University of
Michigan and having the right to show the
world how ignorant you are with your gen-
uine but misguided attemptsto save lives in
the short run, be thankful for all the weap-
ons and killing that have happened in the
name of securing those rights for you.
I've been to a country where alcohol is

illegal, pornography is illegal and homo-
sexuals get murdered just for being who
they are (yet pederasty is socially accept-
able for some reason). Is this the world you
want to live in? Where gays get stoned just
for their sexual preference?
If your answer is no, and you like the
right to have abortions, be gay or avoid
religious persecution, then be damned
thankful. Thankful for people like the
engineers who design new, effective ways
of killing those who want to deprive you of
your rights and make you conform to their
political beliefs.
James Simpson
Eastern Michigan University student
UN report is too harsh
toward Israel
TO THE DAILY:
Reading about the United Nations'
recently completed probe into the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, I thought I would
contribute my two cents (UN probe
finds evidence of war crimes in Gaza,
09/16/2009). First, accusations against
Israel need to take into account the fight-
ing conditions. The Palestinian armed
groups don't always wear military uni-,
forms and it's hard to distinguish civil-

ians from armed militants until they fire
at you. The article quoted reports that
the Israeli armed forces failed to "distin-
guish between military targets and the
civilian population." The Palestinians
weren't exactly operating out of declared
military bases - they fight a guerrilla war
with consequences that inevitably include
higher civilian death tolls.
Second, the chief prosecutor is quoted
as saying, "It's very important that justice
should be done." The execution of the war
was justice for Israel. Israelis have dealt
with ongoing rocket attacks fired wildly
into Israeli territory. When the UN does
not completely ignore these attacks, its
committees respond by asking the Pales-
tinians to please stop.
Lastly, instead of waiting for Israel's
patience with Palestinian militant's
attacks to completely expire, the UN
should, perhaps, keep the attacks from
happening in the first place. The UN
force deployed in the region, besides being
grossly under-strengthened, can do noth-
ing to stop the Palestinian attacks unless
the militants decide to invade Israel.
Perhaps the UN will try to deal justice.
If so, I wouldn't be surprised if they found
it difficult to arrest, much less convict, any
Palestinians.
Jason vonEhr
Engineeringfreshman

I
I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 21, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, September 21, 2009 - 5A

What I learned this summer

Sexy dudes make for sexy porn.

A rry'Humpday'

Ma
thi

We
we've
thing
probat
not sa
under
circun
es
withot
added
of alt
chanc
matter
tion or
nights
of an
straig]
day,"
who, a
ing, de
phy to

le bonding leads Ben (relative newcomer Mark
Duplass) and Andrew (Joshua
to gay porn in Leonard, "Prom Night") are col-
lege buddies who haven't seen
s touching romp each other in 10 years. So when
they do, a night of celebration is in
By HANS YADAV order. After a gratuitous amount
Daily Arts Writer of drinking, old college rivalries
surface and suddenly Ben and
've all had that night when Andrew find themselves locked
either said or done some- in a game of machoism, with the
that we two perpetually trying to one-up
bly would the other. The topic of an indepen-
ay or do * dent, amateur porn contest comes
normal up, and the friends throw around
nstanc- Humpa the idea of two straight guys "bon-
(especially At the ing" on camera as a potential art
it the Michigan project. The cards are on the table,
effects Magnolia and throughout the rest of the
ohol). But . film, Ben and Andrew probe each
es are, no other about who will follow the
r how outlandish the situa- plan through to the end and who
r atmosphere, most of these will be the one to back out.
do not involve the filming The male ego, in all its com-
erotic movie featuring two petitive and often impulsive deci-
ht guys. But that's "Hump- sion-making glory, is hilariously
a movie about two friends satirized in "Humpday." A friend-
fter a crazy night of party- ly game of basketball between
cide to make gay pornogra- Ben and Andrew turns into a ball-
gether. hogging spectacle, ending with

the two entangled on the ground
cursing as passers-by curiously
watch. Even harmless conversa-
tion between the buddies devolves
into conflict as each person takes
a defensive stance and attacks
the other's psyche at opportune
moments. As ridiculous and over-
the-top as the scenes may at first
appear, a certain level of truth
about male megalomania is pain-
fully apparent.
Ben's and Andrew's exchanges
and exhibitions are made more
genuine through the detailed
camerawork. The movie plays out
like a home video - informal with
a lot of focus on the characters'
faces and dialogue. The mostly
improvised conversations are a
critical component in creating the
dynamic between two guys in a
strange situation neither wants
to back out of. On the downside,
a lot of useless banter is thrown
in. While the idle chitchat makes
sense given the real-life nature
of the film, it starts to feel a little
lengthy for viewers. Minus these
See HUMPDAY, Page 9A

or me, this pastasummer can
be effectively summed up by
the following three items:
car detailing, a casual mental break-
down and music
festivals. But
for the purpose
of this column, N
I'll focus on the
music festivals.
Now, this
beingthe sum-
mer of threes, JOSH
I went to three BAYER
music festivals:
Pitchfork Music Festival in Chi-
cago, Detroit Jazz Festival and the
Detroit Electronic Music Festival.
But for the purpose of this column,
I'll focus on the first two.
The latter can be effectively
summed up by the following three
items: I paid $30 for a green wrist
band, I saw a man who had shaved
a checkerboard pattern into his leg
hair and I saw Flying Lotus. Flying
Lotus was incredible.
At this point in my music-listen-
ing career, I'm turning into a little
bit of an asshole. Of course, I went
though my little-kid-in-a-candy-
store period when I discovered
indie music and realized there's
more to life than "Hot in Herre."
But two things happened this sum-
mer that started making me feel a
little bit jaded: I started listening
to a lot of jazz music and I attended
the Pitchfork Music Festival.
Before I get too many hipster-
propelled tomatoes launched at me,
let me expound: There were a lot of
great acts at Pitchfork. Watching
The Flaming Lips get birthed from
a gigantic vagina on a video screen
was a life-changing experience.
The National put on a much more
intense show than its broodingly
bookish discography would ever
suggest. And Grizzly Bear kicked
ass. Period.
But a festival should be more than
its headliners and, sadly (for me at
least), Pitchfork was not. Save for
Yeasayer, I did not see one "minor"
band that I felt was anything more
than a one-trick pony, regurgitated
from the bowels of much cooler,
more original ponies (who know a

hell of a
The p
commor
indie Sp
like toc
to call tI
ently). N
such lin
isn't on1
they the
they pla
pop to k
mittent]
formula
chord pi
punk-te
beats (w
playing,
percent
this que
music ti
ing - or
why the
in the fi
Pitc
is,
is
Thisi
band ne
groundl
great ex
honed a
havingc
deftly c
indie pe
own spi
to see al
rock bar
like Am
when th
is suppo
things t
the mail
Enter
left. Her
through
even he
blown a
is intrin
indie? N
think an
empiric

lot more tricks). genre (unless that genre is neo
poster child for this least- country, in which case it's inferior
n-denominator, processed to all other genres). But I certainly
'am is a little three-piece I feel that the least-common-denom-
all The Thermals (they like inator bands at Jazz Fest trumped
hemselves that too, appar- the shit out of the least-common-
lever in my life have I heard denominator bands at Pitchfork.
ear, derivative music that Jazz music is all about improvi-
the radio. By no means are sation, and improvisation usually
worst band in the world - packs a high interest quotient.
yed decent enough power Which isn't to say it doesn't have
eep my head bobbing inter- its pitfalls - in fact, jazz music
ly. But their transparent can be just as structurally formu-
* of straight-up-and-down laic as indie music. Straight-ahead
rogressions over relentlessly jazz like hard bop often consists
mpo boom-boom snare of virtuosos simply taking turns
vith the bass and guitar spitting freewheeling solos over
the same exact part for 90 a relatively unchanging rhythm
of the set) begged me to ask section. In essence, the genre is
stion: If you're going to play rigidly structured on a complete
hat's doing absolutely noth- lack of structure. And after a long
at least nothing new - then day at Jazz Fest, sitting through
hell are you making music an entire bop set left me craving
rst place? more unpredictability via - com-
pletely paradoxically - a little bit
more structure.
hfork Festival ut the fact that hearing these
hfryF siv l musicians taking turns exorcising
c o but-jazz their souls through their instru-
COOl, L t jZZ ments is considered run-of-the-mill
way cooler. at this sort of festival is incredible
Way CO er'to me. By definition, all genres
are goingto feature music that's
"generic." And I find it fascinating
isn't saying thatevery that, in the case of jazz music, this
eds to be doingsomething generic-ness comes in the form of
breaking. Deerhunter is a virtual anarchy. Hence, my recent
ample of a band thathas love affair with jazz (although the
very distinctsound without ring on my finger still currently
done anything otherthan belongs to indie).
ollagingthe remains of the Fittingly, my favorite act between
'digree and puttingtheir both festivals was Tortoise, far and
n on it. It just feels ironic , awaythe jazziestband at Pitch-
1 these dime-a-dozen indie fork (with a little bit of luck, they
nds gathered at Pitchfork could probably even land a spot at
erican Apparel mannequins Jazz Fest). Soare they indie or are
e very term "indie rock" they jazz? Probably neither (and
sed to denote bands doing both). And that's whyI like them
oo exciting and offbeat for so much. Because when I'm listen-
nstream to digest. ing to music, I don't give two Regis
r Detroit Jazz Festival, stage Philbins what genre it is. In fact, I
re, I can saunter in halfway like it best when I can't figure it out
the set of a band I've never at all. I just wantto go on an adven
ard of and be completely ture. So take me on an adventure,
way. Is this because jazz goddamnit.

sically a better genre than
Jo, not in the least. I don't
ay one genre can be deemed
ally superior to any other

Bayer wants to start an indie-
jazz-fusion band. Mock his first
album at jrbayer@umich.edu.

m
'1
0
Send a right-side-up e-mail
to battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.

rl F REE
GRAD PRACTICE TESTS
Ty a MCAT, LSAT, GMAT, GRE, or
DAT Practice Test and receive a
detailed score breakdown to see
how you would do on the actual test!
MCAT & GMAT: 10/10B2009
LSAT & GRE: 10/11/2009
DAT: 11/01/2009
H->


HPVI
Your t
that c

. '",C

Humankind in his future world has
learned how to thrive in harmony with
a flourishing Nature. In one homeland,
however, women are oppressed. Now
they awaken to their rage-and the men
have all the weapons.
Clementa
a novel

Jim Martin

I


4

6A- Monday, September 21, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

S
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing an Central Campas rates start at
$50 per montb. Call 734-995-921 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
antil April). Only 511steps tothe B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B Schaol and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.cam
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
aUtomotive f

R E ALT Y
Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
na! to Pzzu s6'ma e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium


Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
1998 BMW 540. Good condition. bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
175,000 miles. Original owner. 734- storage. Great for UM football fans
429-2850 or bcrider@umich.edu and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC. 4101.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Approval 2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
LEASE TO OWN or Buy here pay Available for Immediate Occupancy on
here. Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
060 Studio & 1
Bdrm. Units
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing Tower Plaza Condominium
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri- uit;r&ir H s-n
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2 ,- m
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve 734-663-1530
new, lack in great rates.aLimited 209
spaces available - ask aboat specials.________________
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !! and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010. Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free visit www.archrealtyco.com
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylat ,umich.edu
www.nancylat.com 917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg. bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904. cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help find a room-
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010 * mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
http://www.carlsonproperties.com 668-1100 or
734-332-6000. www.varsitymanagement.com

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
Post Realty
properties
Four great campus locations. 1- & 2-bed-
apartments and studios. Great locations,
well maintained, responsive mgmt.,
free internet & other amenities.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
ROOM FOR RENT on a horse farm.
20 miles from campus. $400/mo.
734-433-1057.

PRESENTS H
Rentali-rsMsi
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
LUXURY . APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991.
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campas. Call 734-995-9200 o
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willam Ran Airpmrt. 734-7913-5685.
http://www buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M ep.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
helpwanted
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. P/T,
possible F/T Stanmer. Mast know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
BABYSITTER-- FOR TWO kids,
fall/winter term. Needed for occas-
sional evenings. Flexible. Call
(734)995-0494.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible bin. Studenta, apply @
telefund.umich.edu o763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
IDone thel

STUDENT WORK
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail, no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
STUDENTPAYOUTSCOM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
110% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
09
AFTERSCHOOL BABYSITTER
FOR 2 fun scheool-aged girls (1015)
in ear AA hame, near campus. M-F 3:-
30-6pm, with some flex. Competitive
wage and gas stipend. Extra and sum-
mer hrs possible. Ref and own trans.
req. Contact Eve, emakerr@gmail.com
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tdsnet
Get 'em while they're freshmen.
They wen't be rice feele.

I & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.

APARTMENTS. 1 & 2 bdrm. Utilities
included. Free prkg. Near AATA down-
town and campus. Old west side. No
smoking, no pets. 734-426-7821.

1

Looking for a House?
Have your
REALTY top pick...

616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

Now Leasing for
2010-2011


Los Angeles Times Daily C
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce
ACROSS DOWN 33 'TheF
1 Skills-sharpening 1 Napoleon'sexile _":1
piano piece isle Fairb
6 El _, Texas 2 Oolong and 35 Imitat
13 SoCl coptforce pekoe 30 Unae
14 Bolshevik leader 3 Not practiced 31 Plasti
15 "Baseball 4 502, to Nero for ar
Tonight' station 5 Burden 39 Poem
16 Prefix meaning 6 Annoying, like a Beeth
"same" kid brother "Cho
17 Elementary 7 Conceming Symp
18 Bit of sports info 8 Minor quarrel 44 Fell w
19 To-do 9 Like an escapee
20 Pose a question 10 Southpaw's ANSW
21 Capuble of doing nicknameb P R E,
aljob 11 Greenish-blue R E D
24 'To whom 12 Kittyor kisser
concera" 13 Floppywith data E T E
26 Tarzan actor 22 Daddies L 1 N
Ron 23 Building wing I R I
27 Improvises lines 25 Attach with rope M E C
29 Solidify 27 Cause to
31 La , Bolivia chuckle D U S
34 Group fight 29 U.S. Cabinet Q N T
35 Subtle emanation diisoan r EG A
36Yardevent 29Foremaninmcourt,S U R
37 Next in line to e.g. S E T
advance at work 3 sBw-toting gad D N E
413 Astound 31 Assigned as the TR
41 Corp. leaders partnerof, asia TR
42 Acted boldly dance class S
43 Subj. for some 32 Medicinal plants xwordedi
immigrants 1 2 a a 4 a 6
44 Berlin"Mister"
45 Mother with a 14 is
Nobel prize 17 15
46 More than damp
47 With _ breath: 2 21 22
tensely
anticipatory 24 n
48 Jackie Gleason 27 22
catchphrase
53 Sorrow 34 as
56 Sweet-talk
57 Dabbling duck 37I
58 Puts behind bars 41
60 Roof overhang
61 Northern Nevada as 4
lawn
62 Popmusic's Hall
& - 49 as as 51 s
63 Lose, as skin
64 Eject, 50
geyser-style
65 Internet giant s
withan s as
exclamation
point in its name By me Rosen
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

.rossword Pu
r Nichols Lewis
Prisoner of 45 PlaygrO
1937 46Applied
anks film 47 Undem
tor 48 Unretur
vering look semen
einoerlays 45 Ark boilt
work 50 PianistE
used in 51 Shrill b
.hven's 52 Open o
ral 54 Butterlik
hony" 55 Exxon,c
ith an axe 59 Small b
ER TO PREVIOUS P
A M P G O U G E
F I R O N P A P
R N E C L I N I
E N S R I NG S
S E L A N O
H A N I Z E S D
K ER M A L I
N SK JUM P
G AL O E A
SSA L T H R
S SE T A L
SMMER E L O
PEARS S O R
tor@aol.com
17 8 9 10 11
16
19
23
28
6
58 5

uzzle
und game
Simoniz to
eath
nable
der
Brubeck
ark
ne's eyes
kA sread

DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 stary en Lung-
shame Dr. Haf a milestI UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to down-
town. Wsher/dryer in unit, $1000/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at

KU o ' michigandaily.com/classifieds
attery See great places on an interactive map
UZZLE: with full descriptions, features, and
prices.
ED
E R GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
C A L 1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
I D E nished, heat, water, parking included,
I D I N in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
I o S sity Management for details (734) 668-
E N I E 1100 or www.varsitymanagement.com
G N S IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
E R S ments on Central and North Campus,
L E E www.michcomrealty.com or
I C E 734-662-5500 for appointment.
LC U M
I S E NOW LEASING FOR 201.0-2011-
I T E D Arch Realty located at 616 Church
09/18/09 Street, far more details call 734-995-
12 13 9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
32 3
Daily Classifieds:
as as ou'veserving the Uofli
gg yu've Community for
been hundreds upon
served hundreds or so
092/9 1 years,,

1 BEDROOM, 521 Walnut St.: Fully
furnished, brand new furniture, updated
kitchen with dishwasher. Great campus
location, heat, water, parking included.
Call Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.
AD
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-.
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

For Tuesday, Sept. 22, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You can get a lot done at work today.
Whatevertask you set before you will be
quite easily accomplished because you
have focus, concentration and determi-
nation.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Your relationships with children might
be very serious today. If you have totake
care of children today, it might feel like
a burden. Discussions about romance,
sports and social events will be rather
sober.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Someone older might offer advice to
you today, or vice versa. Be open to this.
Family discussions will be about practi-
cal matters and how to make things
securefur the long-term future.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
You might be worried about some-
thing today. Nevertheless, you're in a
serious frame of mind, which is very
helpful if you have to do routine, steady,
repetitive work. Just get dawn to it!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Financial matters are a practical con-
cern today. You're in a penny-pinching
frame of mind. If shopping today, you
will buy only practical things that will
last for a long time.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You're in sucha serious frame of mind
today, it might appear to others thatyour
glass is half-empty not half-full!
However, you've got some serious
thinking to do.
LIBRA
(Sept.23toOct.22)
This is an excellent day for research.
You're willing to work alone or work

behind the scenes. You have focus, con-
centration and determination.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Discussions with someone older or
more experienced than you could be
helpful today. Listen to what others have
to say.
SAGITTARIUS .
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You feel cautious in all your
exchanges with bosses, parents and VIPs
today. Be careful. It's hard to see the for-
est for the trees. Nevertheless, your crit-
ical faculties are sharp.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You are quickto see the flaws in other
people's arguments today, and you can
spot faulty reasoning. Clever you!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Discussions haboutshared property
mill get right down to brass tacks. You
want to know what is expected of you,
and you want to be clear about your
responsibilities.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Communications with others, espe-
cially partners and close friends, are a bit
stifled today. People easily fall into neg-
ative thinking. You feel overly cautious.
YOU BORN TODAY You're involved
in many things. This is because you're
always ready to begin something new!
This style of doingthings suits your need
for stimulation and excitement. You're
very loyal to those you trust. For some
reason, you seem to underestimate the
influence you have on others. This year
is a social year that promotes relation-
ships. Next year, you'll learn something
important!
Birthdate of: Tom Felton, actor; Joan
Jett, singer; Ethan Moreau, hockey
player.

02009 KingFeaturesSyndicate,Inc.

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issueand $1.75 per linefor each additional
consecuive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contractsare available- contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when adsare placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessads only)
" All ads rust be prepaid unlessprior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 21, 2009 - 7A

ENERGIZING IDEAS

SA D ALSALAH/Daily
James Rogers, chairman, president and CEO of Duke Energy, speaks at the Carbon
Symposium on Friday. For a full article on the speech, go to michigandaily.com.

TOURS
From Page1A
with the tour participants," Gra
man wrote in an e-mail. "Studen
and parents now ask more que
tions during the tour and also a
more likely to provide feedback
their guide after the tour."
Kallay said some of the ma
problems with the tours he atten
are thatntheyaretoo long, the wal
ing groups are too big for partic
pants to hear or see the tour guk
and the presentation is monot
nously scripted and impersonal.
As an "evangelist," oKall
preaches the importance of feeli
and ambience in campus visits, c
ing Starbucks and Disney as co
porate examples of how to sell
experience.
"They don't invest in their can
pus experience, though college its
is a huge experience," Kllay said
schools whose campus visit practic
are in need of change. "It's a pla
whereyoueat,whereyousleep,whe
you study and have fun. Prospecti
students want to hear and see th
entire authentic experience."
Feodies Shipp III, assistant dire
tor of undergraduate admissio
at the University of Michigan, sa
that the University has not consu
ed TargetX or similar companie
But, Shipp said, the University do
largely follow the firm's principl
for successful campuovisits.
"On a constant, ongoing basis,
lookatevaluationsandmaketweaks
Fairchild recalled one incident
when the cashier at Arby's gave him
a free meal when she discovered
what he was doing.
"I was getting out my wallet
and she was like, 'We don't charge
heroes here,' "he said.
He added, "I'm not a hero, I'm just
doing something anyone could do."
When describing the people he
has met, Fairchild referenced the
1994 film "Forrest Gump," in which
the title character, played by Tom
Hanks, spends years running back
and forth across the country.
"I'm having all of Forrest Gump's
experiences along the way. It's kind
of fun," he said.
Because Fairchild is walking
more than running, he said he has
found this easier than training for
a marathon.
"It's not really that strenuous, and
it's almost like something I think
almost anyone can do because it's
mostly the time, it's mostly being
able tobe alone for-so long," he said.
But Fairchild said the journey
hasn't always been easy - after
_alking 500 miles, he began to
question his trip.
"I was kind of thinking, OK, why
am I really doing this?" he said.
"Yeah, I want to see what's out there
and maybe learn philosophy and go
deep inside myself. But ... I can do
that somewhere else; I don't have to
be doing this."
He said he soon realized he
needed to finish the journey just
to complete it.
"What am Igoing to do anyway?"

our presentation," Shipp said, adding
that evaluations are consistently posi-
tive."Anygooddirectorofadmissions
is constantly asking his or her staff to
u- rigorously evaluate their tactics and
ts make cost-effective changes."
s- Shipp said that while tour guides
re are trained to give specific facts and
to lead the group through the Diagand
in important buildings like Angell
in Hall and the Chemistry Building,
ds manytour choices are up to them.
k- "We don't necessarily prescribe
H- a certain route around campus for
de our tour guides, and we definitely
o- encourage them to make their pre-
sentations personal and share sto-
ay ries," Shipp said. "We are trying to
ng give a sense of the University's scope
it- and size, aswell as its personality."
r- In his experience, Kallay praised
an two TargetX clients, Albion College
and Northern Michigan University,
m- in particular, for their campus pre-
elf sentations.
of "They're two of the most authen-
es tic and rich campus experiences
ce around," he said.
re Kevin Kropf, director of
ve admissions at Albion, was appre-
at ciative of Kallay's critical eye.
"Things that seem matter-of-
c- fact can really have a negative
ns impact on the school's image,"
id Kropf said. "Now we want to
It- treat outsiders like insiders -
s. letting students in on the lingo,
es engaging in the traditions, so
es they kind of feel like they're a
part of the place."
ye Gina Lombardini, assistant
to director of admissions at NMU,
he said. "It's not like I can sit around
my parent's house or ... get an apart-
ment, get a job and start the whole
thing over with no direction."
But fornowhe'stakingitdaybyday.
He encourages people tocheckouthis
Website at www.runsomemore.com,
regardless of whether or not theytcon-
tribute to his cause.
Beyond raising money for MS
research, Fairchild said he doesn't
have any message he wants people
to take away from this. He wants
them to make up their own minds.
"I just kind of put it all out there
into the world and say, wherever
you are, whatever point in your life,
whatever you need, maybe there's
something in there for you," he
said. "I'm just going to put this
energy out there. Take whatever
you need from it."
He added, quoting from "For-
rest Gump": " 'That's all I have to
say about that.'"

agreed, recalling an unpopular
portion of NMU's past campus
tours as an example of miscom-
munication between admissions
directors and tour guides.
"The tours would go past a big
music hall, which was a pretty stan-
dard stop. But hardlyanyone except
music students wanted to see that,"
Lombardini said, adding that tours
no longer include the music hail.
While Kallay reported around 85
percent of his clientele to be smaller
liberal arts schools like Albion, he
said larger public universities like
the University of Michigan always
have room for improvement.
"A lot of larger flagship universi-
ties present their campus experi-
ence really well, which is why so
many applicants choose them in
the end," Kallay said. "But I also
think they should offer a more cus-
tomized experience."
Kallay cited personal elements
like themed tours, which focus

2 m

;
,
- ' .

more heavily on particular academ-
ic departments or student organi-
zations, and anecdotes from the
tour guide as improvements many
schools could make.
Regarding the' direction tour
guides face when they walk,'Kallay
was ambivalent.
"It's stressful to watch a person
walk backwards while talking at
you, and it can be distracting, but
our main focus is the feeling the
prospective students and their par-
ents are getting," Kallay said. "You
can walk backwards, forwards,
sideways - it doesn't matter if
you're beingauthentic."
Shipp agreed, saying that Uni-
versity of Michigan tour guides are
not instructed to face a particular
direction, only to engage all mem-
bers of the tour.
"College is fun, and somehow
we've made it seem like a challeng-
ing and daunting thing," Kallay
said. "Tours should dispel that."

FAIRCHILD
From Page 1A
about the idea, he said, the more it
made sense and the more possible
it seemed.
Rather than renewing the lease
on his Chicago apartment or active-
ly hunting for a new job, Fairchild
decided to start planning his run
across the country.
"Everything just kind of lined
up,"he said.
Fairchild also said he saw this
as an opportunity to raise money
for MS, drawing inspiration from
a friend who has suffered from the
disease for years.
Withthegoalofraising$25,O0 for
MS research, Fairchild soon started
making plans for the 3,400-mile trip.
Figuring that he could travel about
30-35 miles per day, he estimated the
tripwouldttakehim aboutfourtofive
months, starting in August and end-
ing in mid-December.
"I really didn't do any training for
it, or anything like that," he said. "I
can run if I want or walk if I want,
I'm not really bound by a lot."
Fairchild mapped out a route
from Boston to Ann Arbor, and then
to Chicago where he would take
Route 66 to Los Angeles.
When he first started his journey,
Fairchild just used a compass point-
ing west, but now he uses Google
Maps to plan his route.
"Most of the planning I do now on
a day-to-day basis" he said. "I know
where 'm stopping almost every day,

but there's still the adventure of'who
knowswhat's going to happen?"
Fairchild walks along the side of
the highway, pushingthe modified
stroller with just the essentials -
water bottles, energy bars, a tent
and sleeping bag, a camera, a cou-
ple of books and a laptop to blog his
progress.
"That was one of the things Istart-
ed thinking about ... What if I had
nothing?" he said. "What if I really
gave itup and all I had was the stuffI
carried with meon the road? I'd still
have pretty much everything."
Fairchild considers his current
address as wherever he's sleeping
on a given night, and his home as
the road. When asked by a passing
driver if he needed a ride home, he
said he wasn't sure how to answer
the question.
"I kind of realized, well, right
here, I am home," he said. "Every
other step I take, that's now my
new home."
A typical diiy on the roadhbegins at
7 a.m., and Fairchild says it's "pretty
boring." His diet primarily consists
ofroadside £ t o,%andhe's learned
to predict his dining options from the
litter bythe side of the road.
Fairchild said he has used this
trip as an opportunity to meet inter-
esting people along the way.
"The first couple questions are
always almost the same and you're
wondering, 'Oh, is this going to be
the same kind of conversation,' "
he said, "And, you know, you never
know ... People can surprise you
sometimes."

r

-



OFFICE HOURS
From Page 1A
record of corruption and failure to
control Taliban violence makes his
projected win an unfavorable out-
come for the United States.
"Initially the Obama adminis-
tration was hoping the incumbent
Karzai would lose," he said.
International criticism over
the legitimacy of the results has
focused specifically on one-third
of the votes that went to Karzai.
Those ballots are now under
review, after the Electoral Com-
plaints Commission called for
recounts and forensic examina-
tions of ballot boxes in 10 per-
cent of polling places.
Suny argues that the failure
of the election extends beyond
its association with fraud and
low voter turnout prompted by
Taliban violence, and deeper
into more fundamental issues
that face a democratic election
held in a tribal nation.
"These kinds of elections are a
Western innovation," he said. "In
tribal societies these elections
don't quite operate the same way
(they do in the United States)."
Near Eastern Studies Prof.
KevorkBardakjiansaidthefailure
of the election is another sign that
the U.S:s concept of democracy
may not work in countries with
different foundational structures.
"Weshould letthemdetermine
their government and electoral
process the way they see fit with
the various religious tenants,
tribal system, etc.," Bardakjian
said. "It is not for us to decide.
Afghanistan is not a democratic
country, and I don't think it will
be in the foreseeable future."
Bardkajian said that the Unit-
ed States had "no business"being
in Afghanistan in the first place
and that the country "should
leave as soon as possible."
"(The election) is the strategy
to pull out," he said. "The only

way is to leave the country to a
legitimate government. This had
to happen sooner or later."
He added: "I hope we can with-
draw in an orderly fashion and let
them take matters through their
own hands."
Cole said that the common argu-
ment to continue U.S. involvement
in the conflict is falling more and
more short by the day.
"The standard line in the United
States is that we are fighting this

so al-Qaida can't hit us," he said.
"There isn't actually any al-Qaida
in Afghanistan. So this is not a
very compelling argument."
Marwil said the recent call for
more U.S. troops to join the fight
by Adm. Mike Mullen, one of Pres-
ident Obama's top advisors in the
region, only complicates the issue.
"Support for Afghanistan in
America is draining like water out
of the bathtub," he said. "And if more
Americans are killed, then forget it."


i


8A -Monday, September 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
New rules change how
banks market on campus

From Page 1A
73,000 alumni accounts open
and 1,500 student accounts open,
according to Sigler. So long as the
10-year contract remains in place,
the revenue from these accounts
will remain constant. The legisla-
tion could affect the terms of a pos-
sible future contract, though.
Christine Lindstrom, director
of the Higher Education Project
on debt conducted by the United
States Public Interest Research
Groups, said there are two key pro-
visions within the CARD Act that
will protect students as consum-
ers.
The first condition Lindstrom
highlighted is the issue of tabling
and handing out giveaways in
exchange for opening a credit
account, which will no longer be
permitted on campuses after this
legislation comes into affect. Lind-
strom said that without giveaways,
students will be more focused on
the terms and conditions of the
credit agreements they're signing.
The secoid condition is that
students under the age of 21 must
have a cosigner or be approved via
a financial background check prior
to being approved for a credit card.
Lindstrom said the need for
students to show income or assets
before being able to obtain a credit
card without a cosigner is also a
major component to the new legis-
lation that will enable students to
be educated consumers.
"Previous to this point, students
in college were the only consumers
who weren't held to a standard of
what your income and your assets
are," Lindstrom said. "And based
on your income and your assets, we
will then give you an interest rate
and a credit line, and that basically
is the way it works for every adult
in society except for students."
Another important component
of the legislation that will help
lower student credit card debt is
the opportunity to lower penalty
interest rates over time, Lind-
strom said.

"That's huge andverysignificant
in terms of decreasing debt because
that's not the case now," Lindstrom
said. "By giving the cardholder
some ability to proactively fix the
problems that they had, to get out
from underneath the penalty inter-
est rate, you can lower the debtthat
that person would otherwise face."
Lindstrom said she sees the
necessity of a cosigner as essential
in protecting students from debt
they would otherwise be suscep-
tible to acquiring if there were no
background checks on assets.
"If you're qualifying for credit
that you can't afford, of course
you're plunging yourself into deep-
er debt than you otherwise should
be in," Lindstrom said.
In U.S. PIRG's Campus Credit
Card Trap Study, conducted from
October 2007 to February 2008, 66
percent of students had at least one
credit card. Out of that number, 30
percenthad a cosigner or their par-
ents paid their credit card bill. For
those students who paid their own
credit card bills, 36 percent paid
their bills in full each month, while
34 percent carried a balance.
Peter Garuccio, senior director
of public relations for the American
Bankers Association, said the pro-
visions of the CARD Act are going
to drastically change the nature of
the credit card industry.
"Really when you look at all of
the provisions en masse, in all,
it really requires a new business
model," Garuccio said. "They've
got to change their operations,
they've got to change their market-
ing, they've got to change their risk
assessment, they've got to change
their pricing. They have to change
everything really."
But he added that the effect
the legislation will have on stu-
dents opening credit accounts
remains unclear because the Fed-
eral Reserve hasn't yet established
well-defined guidelines of how
to determine if a student has suf-
ficient income or assets to qualify
for a credit card.
Garuccio said the association

is awaiting a preliminary rule on
those guidelines by the end of the
month and a final rule that will be
adopted by the end of the year.
"Until we know what that looks
like, we don't know what the full
effect is going to be," he said. "But
again, suffice to say it's going to be
tougher for people in this age group
to geta card."
Garuccio said he thinks banks
and universities will still partner
up through affinity agreements
- like the one between the Uni-
versity's Alumni Association and
Bank of America - in the future to
create programs that are mutually
beneficial to each party.
But he said not many students
actually open credit accounts
through campus displays because
programs are geared toward alum-
ni - as is the case with the one at
the University.
Some students said they think
the new legislation requiring
those under 21 years old to have a
cosigner to open a credit account
will protect students from piling
up debt and from overcharging on
items they can't afford.
LSA sophomore Paige Tibbits
said she is waiting to get a credit
card until she is older because she
doesn't want to rely on it to make
payments.
"I kind of agree with that
because if you don't have any
source of income or any way to
pay offa credit card, you could put
yourselfinaserious financial situa-
tion that could potentially damage
your future," she said. "It makes
sense that if you don't have a reli-
able source of income, why should
you have a credit card?"
But some students, like LSA
junior Rachel Rickard,think people
under 21 years old should be able
to open their own credit accounts
without a cosigner.
"To me that seems kind of ridic-
ulous because I don't have a job
during the school year; I only have
a job during the summer," Rickard
said. "And I have a credit card and
I can pay it off."
Rickard said she uses her cred-
it card for certain educational
expenses, like textbooks, in order
to build up her credit history.
"BasicallyIuseitsoIhave estab-
lished credit now, and I never pay
for anything with it that I know
that I don't have the funds to pay
back," she said.

Sweatshop Labor & Codes of Conduct:
from Form to Function
Wednesday September 23, 7:00-9:00pm
Gallery, Hatcher Graduate Library, Rm. 100
Reception to follow
Panelists:
S#, CEO, Knights Apparel

4

liz t s. e~edy, Vice President, Corporate
Responsibility, Collegiate Licensing Company

>, President, J. America

. Is there an ethical imperative to effectively implement codes of
conduct?
. If so, what are the strategies and pitfalls of implementation?
Join us for this discussion on issues of aspirational versus
operational codes and on the responsibilitiesof companies versus
Universities in assuring that codes are implemented.
Co-sponsors:
UM CENTER FOR ETHicS IN PUec LIFE
THE UM PRESIDENT'S AVscRY COMMITTEE ON
LABOR STANDARDS AND HUMAN RIGHTS

FOLLOW
THE DAILY
ON
TWITTER
@michigandaily
@michdailynews
@michdailysports

4

het1ihinanaibi PRESENTS

I
I

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



10 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 21,2009 - 9A

I The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, September 21, 2009 - 9A

Polvo's newest adds up

Nir
her
12-
thei

Mat
hard
pin d
boundE
prog-r
and
the ge
extend
way f
progre
Yes an
like BI
It's typ
larson
stop-st
dictabl
the ye
stretch
of ban
and Bi
had a
post- a
since.
Poly
elder
of Cha
rock's
day. B
and G
rock la
local f
skated
pipelin

neties math rock lina (Merge) and the Windy City
with lasting results. With a string
os return from a of fantastic albums in the mid-
'90s, Polvo was arguably at their
year hiatus with creative peak when they split in
1998.
r best album ever In Prism comes after a 12-year
absence of new material, and it
By MIKE KUNTZ couldn't sound fresher. Gone are
DailyArts Writer the scratchy mid-fi recordings of
the early '90s, helped in no small
h rock has always been a part by Brian Paulson's crisp pro-
genre to duction. And while Paulson's no
sown. Its stranger to the genre, having pro-
s flirt with duced Slint's iconic Spiderland in
ock, noise 1991, here he brings his experience
post-rock, PO with more pop-oriented projects
nre's roots Prism to create a punchy, clear sound
ing all the Merge with teeth.
tom '70s Starting with "Right the Rela-
ssives like tion," the album immediately
d Genesis to post-punkers reassures listeners that Polvo's
ack Flag and Sonic Youth. still got it - and maybe better than
ically classified by its angu- ever. Paulson's experience with
netimes dissonantmelodies, Superchunk is also evident here,
art rhythms and unpre- the opener having just the right
[e song structures. Over mix of grungy power-pop lurking
ars, math rock has been beneath the mathy surface to keep
ted to describe the sounds the song together. But with vocals
ds like Slint, Don Caballero slightly buried, it's guarded from
g Black, each of which has excessive mainstream pop appeal,
direct influence on other even with a chorus as anthemic as:
nd experimental-rock acts "I kill my creation / to right the
relation."
o fits right in with these "D.C. Trails" is an excellent
statesmen, emerging out demonstration of Polvo's knack
pel Hill, NC during math for unorthodox groove-laden gui-
late-'80s/early-'90s hey- tar work, with unconventional
oasting ties with the Touch tunings making for beautiful and
o (a pivotal experimental unexpected collisions of harmony
abel) scene in Chicago and and melody. Singer Ash Bowie's
ans like Steve Albini, Polvo voice hovers perfectly between
the underground musical rant-singing and unimpressed
e between North Caro- baritone with vague and highly

imagistic lyrics to match. It makes
for the best song on the album.
In Prism maintains its momen-
tum through the middle of the
record, right though the eight-
minute guitar explorations of
"Lucia." Then comes "Dream
Work/Residue," whose canned
and distorted drums paint a
depressed nightmarescape - the
minor-to-major repetition within
the guitar melody brings to mind
Radiohead's "Morning Bell"- and
strangely it fits right in. Closer "A
Link in the Chain" has a soothing
psychedelia wrapped around its
near nine minutes, with dreamy
guitar bends and distortion walls
that channel vintage shoegaze
sheen.
Putting it plainly, this is by no
means an "easy" record. The lay-
ers of melody are deceptively com-
plex and uncovering the lyrics is
an adventure in itself. Polvo has
always been able to find a tasteful
mix of ambient experimental rock
and SST-inspired noise, lurking
somewhere in a mid-'80s alterna-
tive limbo, and it has certainly hit
that again here.
And while it may be pretty easy
to count the band's influences on
one hand, Polvo blends them well
enough to give its artistic state-
ments considerable merit. Plus it
does, like, way better than most
bands. Derivatives aside, In Prism
marks a welcomed return to the
sounds that dominated the '80s
underground, with some '90s
experimentalism and '00s fidelity
added to the mix to make it work
in the present.

The fastest way toa robot's heart is through the giant fucking zipper on its chest.
Zero good reasons to see 9

By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
In "9," the fate of the world rests in the hands of nine
creatures made from burlap sacks.
However alarmingthis prospectmay
seem, the whimsical world of direc-
tor Shane Acker ("The Astounding 9
Talents of Mr. Grenade") should
whisk viewers away from their fears At Quality16
of impendingglobal destruction. and Showcase
The character 9 (voiced by Eli- Focus Features
jah Wood, "The Lord of the Rings")
first opens his eyes to see a world
destroyed. The only other sentient beings he encoun-
ters are eight similarly small burlap robots and a terri-
fying host of angry machines. The nine robots must do
battle againstthemachines to ensure the preservation
of some semblance of humanity.
"9" was originally a short film with much the same
storyline. The short was so successful that it was
adapted into this full-length feature. The short film,
in fact, was nominated for an Oscar back in 2005. But
while the new version is only 79 minutes long - mak-
ing it much shorter than most modern features - it is
an unnecessarily long extension of the original.
The power of the original film gets diluted when
stretched to take up the 79-minute span. There are too
many chase scenes and far too much plot repetition.
One member of the nine is captured and the rest have
to go rescue him. Then another is captured on that
rescue mission and he needs rescuing - after a while,
it gets tedious.
Despite the hiccups in the story, the animation is
still enamoring. There are some truly beautiful over-
laps between the world built by the humans and the
world of the machines. The nine robots find sanctu-
ary in an old sculpture garden, setting a scene that
is both sad and truly haunting. In another moment,
amidst the destruction, they find an old phonograph

record and "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" plays
while the bots rummage through remnants of the
past.
Despite being an animated film, "9" carries a PG-13
rating, accurately indicating that the movie is not for
small children. It's a film ripe with graphic and dis-
turbing images and characters; one of the machine
monsters is a snake-like creature with the head of a
possessed baby doll.
At the same time, the plot and the message remain
fairlysimple.Butit'ssimpleinanegativesense-utter-
ly basic and obvious. Though "9" aims to captivate
an older audience, it cannot get past unsophisticated
imagery - a burning church, a contrast between light
and dark and ruinedbooks.
Further, the characters are all helplessly one-
dimensional. Each of the nine robots has essentially
one personal quality. Number 7 (Jennifer Connelly,
"He's Just Not ThatInto You") is the ferocious female,
Number 1 (Christopher Plummer, "Up") is bossy and
Number 5 (John C. Reilly, "Step Brothers") is always
scared. Talented actors voice each of the nine robots,
so it's unfortunate that the script turns them into a
About as entertaining
as a burlap sack.
more boring version of the seven dwarfs.
Beyond the identity crisis resulting from the scary
animation and the simplistic script, the film suffers
from the fact that several aspects of the plot, particu-
larly the conclusion, will never make sense to anyone,
no matter what age theyare.
The film is an admirable attempt at turning a short
film into a full-length movie, and it manages to keep
some of its integrity, but in the end it's a failure.

COURTESTY OF MERGE

"You wanna hear this kitty purr?"
HUMPDAY
From Page 5A
occasional hiccups, the general
interplay remains crudely funny.
The true beauty of the movie
is derived from its simplicity. It
doesn't harbor deep thematic
undertones, but it isn't superficial
either. "Humpday" stays true to
its premise of two men dancing
around each other's egotism. As
a result, the film is great for both
male and female audiences. Guys
can relate to how stupid (and yet
so important) their egos can be,
and how far it can take them,
while girls can at least attempt to
understand what goes. on inside
the male mind.
The unique "bonding" shared
by Ben and Andrew goes beyond a
mere dare. "Humpday" is a testa-
ment to the power of friendship.
Lifelong friends will remain that
way, even with all the humps in
between.

T.. .

BEEP BOOP
BEEP BEEP
BOOP.
ALL THE
COOL
ROBOTS
WRITE FOR
ARTS.
BOOOOOP
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.

I
L

Learn more about the Peace Corps.
Attend an information session.
e ~ Wednesday, September 23rd
12:00 p.m.
School of Natural Resources
Room 2024
800.424.8580 I www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?

I


10A - Monday, September 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.corn

IDA - Monday, September 21, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom E



:,


Our way out of
the energy fix:
YU
an energy mix.
Do you have the energy we are looking for?
Welcome Back Michigan! The BP Campus Team looks.forward to discussing
opportunities with you at the following Career Fairs: SWE/TBP Fall Engineering
Career Fair Monday, September 21, 2009 BP will conduct interviews for full-time
and internships on October 6-8 for Engineering and Business students. Please make
sure you submit your resume with career services and complete a profile at BP's
University Recruiting Site. We look forward to you joining BP's Energy Mix!
bp

bp.com/uscollegecareers

beyond petroleum.

4

BP is an equal opportunity employer encouraging diversity in the workplace.


i


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I September 21, 2009

MAX COLLINS/Daily

Senior Carlos Brown tallied 187 rushing yards on 13 carries. He also had two touchdowns, including a 90-yarder, the third-longest rushing touchdown in the history of Michigan football.
MICHIGAN 45. EASTERN MICHIGAN 17

Gotta eel goodfor Carios

Carlos Brown sat calmly on the
sidelines in the waning minutes
of Michigan's
45-17 win over Eastern
Michigan. Looking es-
pecially cool and col-
lected, the senior run-
ning back chatted with
teammates as they trot-
ted over to offer high
fives and congratula-
tions. RUTH
His 187 rushing LINCOLN
yards, including a 90- LINCOLN_
yard touchdown run,
that was the third lon-

gest in Michigan history, made him the
hero of a Michigan offense that rushed for
380 yards, the most since 2003.
His teammates definitely knew it. But
Brown didn't seem to.
"Our sideline was nuts," sophomore wide
receiver Darryl Stonum said of Brown's 90-
yard score. "I was actually trying to get to
him to celebrate in the end zone and he took
off on me, so I was like, 'All right, forget it.
I'll jog. I'll catch you on the sideline: "
He may have shunned the celebration,
but it's on the sidelines where Brown has
spent most of his career. Whether it was
because of any number of nagging injuries
or former Michigan running back Mike

Hart's enormous shadow, we have only
seen flashes of the real Brown.
It'smuch too soon to say Brown is"back"
and finally emerging as the five-star run-
ning back that he was expected to be out
of high school. If classmate Brandon Minor
returns soon, he should solidify his spot as
Michigan's No.1 tailback. Sure, Brown had
a spectacular game. But throughout his ca-
reer, he's had many one-game wonders.
Illinois in 2007 -113 yardson 25 carries,
the first back to break the century mark
against the Illini that season. Minnesota
that same year -132 yards.
And last season against Northwestern,
See LINCOLN, Page 3B

Ground attack dooms EMU

By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
Just a week after Tate Forcier cemented
his status as the Michigan football team's
poster boy in a comeback win over Notre
Dame, T-shirts boasting,"May The Forcier
Be With You" began to show up in the Big
House.
In the student section, an enormous sign
stating "We Love Tate!" appeared Saturday
against Eastern Michigan, announcing the
fans' unbridled adoration for the young-

ster.
And with highlights galore on ESPN and
a Sports Illustrated cover story, it was gen-
erally assumed that the Wolverines' future
rested squarely on his shoulders.
Hold on.
Just as Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
repeatedly reminds himself that Forcier
is still a freshman, everyone in Michigan
Stadium needs to be reminded that Rodri-
guez's offense is based around a bruising
ground game.
That was more apparent than ever on

Saturday, with the sluggish defense giving
up 128 rushing yards and Forcier's less-
than-stellar 7-of-13, 68-yard performance.
Forcier, who until Saturday had looked
nearly unstoppable, had a few freshman
miscues but was bailed out by the relent-
less run support, which was too much for
the Eagles in Michigan's 45-17 romp.
With the win, Michigan (3-0) matched
its win total from last year's disastrous 3-9
campaign.
"I think, going into the Big Ten season,
See EAGLES, Page 3B

Freshman Tate Forcier eludes an Eastern Michigan defender during a 21-yard run in the third quarter.


M' upset in season's first loss

WOMEN'S SOCCER
Luck on Wolverines'
side in win over Miami

No.6 Michigan upended
by Oregon State in
straight sets despite
early lead
By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writer
For the Michigan volleyball team, ad-
versity has been a non-issue so far this
season.
The team sprinted out to a 12-0 start,
including a win over then-No. 3 Nebraska
three weeks ago. During that stretch, the
team lost just three sets.
But after unranked Oregon State swept
the Wolverines
Saturday (27-25, OREGON STATE 3
25-22, 25-23) at MICHIGAN 0
the Michigan/
Adidas Invitational, adversity is what ev-
eryone, especially coach Mark Rosen, is
talking about.
"We've had very limited adversity so
far this year," Rosen said. "Adversity -
it's what builds teams, it's what builds
athletes, it's what builds players . We can
get a lot stronger because of the adversity
we faced tonight"
The Wolverines (12-1) began the tour-
nament with two three-set victories over
Marquette and Dayton on Friday.

Late first-half penalty
gives golden opportunity
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
His teamgotlucky,and Michiganwomen's
soccer coach Greg Ryan knows it.
With less than aminute left in the first half,
sophomore Courtney Mercier chased down a
ball on the leftside and a Miami player fouled
Mercier near the corner flag.
"I was amazed,because the girl didn't need
to foul Courtneyin
the corner - there MIAMI (FLA.) 0
was only 2p, sec- MICHIGAN 1
onds to go,"lyan
said. "And Courtney wasn't going to go any-
where, and we got lucky that she fouled her"
Junior Jackie Carron lofted a picturesque
pass off the free kick towards the back goal-
post. Freshman Holly Hein headed the ball
straight into the crossbar but launched the
rebound into the net, scoring her team-high
third goal of the season.
"Holly's a gamer," Ryan said. "She gets a
chance (to score), she sticksathem in!'
It was the only score of the day, enough
for the Wolverines to beat the Hurricanes 1-0

yesterday at the U-M Soccer Complex. Yes-
terday's victory, coupled with last Wednes-
day's 3-0 win over Oakland marked Michi-
gan's first back-to-back shutouts since the
beginning of the 2007season.
With the win, the Wolverines (5-5) sur-
passed last season's win total. And after the
game, Ryan said that the girls could startbe-
lievingin themselves.
Before the lone goal, the match had been
somewhat even. Michigan had its chances
but Miami's attack seemed relentless, with
10 shots and three corner kicks in the first
half alone.
But when the ball got deep in their half of
the field, the Wolverine defense held its own
and forced the Hurricanes to take most of
their shots from outside the box.
Miami threatened even more in the sec-
ond half.
With just over 18 minutes left to play,
goalie Haley Kopmeyer tried to cradle the
ball, but it took a funny bounce and got away.
A Miami player took the ball, but sophomore
Kim Siebert was in position to get her foot
in, to give time for Kopmeyer to recover and
make the save.
Ryan said it was the only mistake that
Kopmeyer made on the day, and Carron de-
scribed Kopmeyer's play as "phenomenal."
See HURRICANES, Page 2B

HMV - - - -- - -
Sophomore Alex Hunt and the Wolverines lost in straight sets in Crisler Arena Saturday
The following day, however, could Instead, an hour-and-a-half match later,
prove to be a turning point in the team's the maize-and-blue faithful were left
season, for better or for worse. stunned inside the arena.
For the first time since 2007, Michigan The Wolverines jumped out to a com-
played at Crisler Arena rather than the fortable 12-2 lead in the first set, but fell
usual home venue Cliff Keen Arena. from there.
The change of scenery was designed "(Oregon State) served really aggres-
to draw a larger-than-normal crowd af- sively," senior right side hitter Megan
ter the football game - which it did. The Bower said. "We didn't take care of the
turnout was moderately successful, with ball tonight. Their outside hitters were
2,673 people in attendance. great, and they shut down ours.... They
At the same time, switching arenas just took us out of system."
for one day was a move to celebrate the one of the outside hitters that exposed
undefeated team and its No. 6 ranking. See BEAVERS, Page 2B

HIGH-FLYING BLUE REID: SETTLE DOWN
After shooting practice Friday, the Is it really great to be a Michigan Wolverine
Wolverines piled five goals on Western : after beating a middling MAC program? Stop
Michigan in Kalamazoo. Page 2B. overusing the big-win cheer. Page 2B. ,


2B - September 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - September 21, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I

BEAVERS
From page 1B
holes in the Michigan defense was
Oregon State senior Rachel Rourke.
Rourke, who is a member of the Aus-
tralian National Team, tallied 25 kills
in the win and took home Tourna-
ment MVP honors.
The Wolverines went down a set
early for only the second time all
season, and that's when the team
needed to rebound against the Bea-
vers (10-3).
But they didn't.
"(The team) is a very highly mo-
tivated group," Rosen said. "They
want to be good, and they want to be
successful in whatthey do but some-
times that success puts pressure on
"It just sucks you
have to learn
from a loss."
you and we didn't manage that well
today.
"Our players got a little panicked
and once that happened, we started
doingthings we don't normally train
to do - trust starts breaking down,
then communication starts breaking
down - it's this spiral that you can't
get out off, and that's very common
in sports."
The loss ended the Wolverines'
bid to begin a'fourth-straight season
13-0.
"We see every match as a learn-
ing experience," junior setter Lexi
Zimmerman said, who dished out
40 assists in the losing effort. "It
just sucks to have to learn from a
loss, but we know what we need to
work on and what we need to do to
get better."
And they'll have to do that fast. Big
Ten play starts next weekend with
two road matches against Indiana
and Purdue in arguably one of the
toughest conferences in the country.
"The way teams respond to these
types of games defines them," Bower
said. "It's a loss, and it doesn't define
our season, but the way we respond
will"

Save the last chant

0

n Jan. 1, 2008, I exited the
Citrus Bowl, home of the
Capital One Bowl, feeling
a high you can only get from aclas-
sic college football game.
After hear-
ingnothing
but incessant
"Appalachian
State" chants
and bad Tim
Tebow jokes
from the
thousands of
Florida fans ANDY
in attendance, REID
I witnessed
one of the best
Michigan football wins in the last
10 years.
Lloyd Carr retired a winner.
After struggling with spread-of-
fense quarterbacks, the Wolverines
dumped the best of them all, the
Heisman winner Tebow. And it
was a bowl game, which, as Michi-
gan fans found out last year, you
can never take for granted.
So, I walked out of the stadium
wearing my Mike Hart jersey
proudly. And then, spiraling down
the ramp to the main concourse,
I leaned over the rail and heard it
faintly waftingup to me:
"It's Great. To Be. A Michigan
Wol-ver-ine."
My family has had season tickets
to Michigan football games since
I was two years old, and despite
the myriad games I have attended,
I've only heard that chant a select
handful of times. Not coinciden-
tally, all of those games are among
the best I've ever seen.
Iconic Michigan games that
deserve an extra bit of special cel-
ebration -1997 Ohio State, 2004
Michigan State, 2005 Penn State.
And that's the way it should be.
I was pretty surprised when I
heard the chant surface during the
post-game celebration after Satur-
day's 45-17 shellacking of Eastern
Michigan. Sure, it's cool when the

I

1

MAX COLLINS/Daily

Michigan fans in the student section chanted "It's Great To Be A Michigan Wolverine" after the game Saturday. Really? C'monguys.

Wolverines head over to the stu-
dent section after each win. But the
crowd should sing the fight song,
chant "Let's Go Blue" or something
- instead of busting out the big
guns for nothing.
That's like buying your friend a
sheet cake on his half-birthday. I
guess it kind of makes a little sense,
but seriously? C'mon.
After a so-so win over East-
ern Michigan is not the time to
be chanting "It's Great, To Be, A
Michigan Wolverine." Save that for

Penn State or Ohio State, who are
both comingto the Big House this
season.
A lot of people might say that
I'm makinga bigstink out of noth-
ing, that it's just a chant and the
students who hollered it after the
Wolverines beat the Eagles were
just trying to have fun.,
But you're diluting the greatness
of the simple chant.
In 2007, I took a road trip to Illi-
nois to watch Michigan play. After
both Mike Hart and Chad Henne

battled severe injuries and Adrian
Arrington threw a pass to fellow-
wideout Mario Manningham, the
Wolverines toppled the eventual-
Rose Bowl-bound Fighting Illini,
27-17.
In the bowels of the stadium
after the game, Michigan fans took
over, cheering "It's Great. To Be. A
Michigan Wol-ver-ine" louder and
louder. Everyone knew the chant,
even though it's such a rare entity.
That makes it so much more
special. What would the chant be if

every maize-clad fan yells it after
Michigan dumps Delaware State
by 40 points?
Students, I encourage you to get
rowdy, get loud and have fun on
State St. before the game. You only
have four years - live it up.
But, respect "It's Great. To Be. A
Michigan Wol-ver-ine."
- Reid thinks you should chant
it all night after rushing the field
on Nov. 21. He can be reached
at andyreid@umich.edu.

'M' places three in
top 10 at invitational

Tauro leads
Wolverines at
non-scoring event
By MARTY LAROUERE
Daily Sports Writer
Injuries and inexperience
couldn't stop the Michigan wom-
en's cross country team from plac-
ing three runners in the top 10 in
the non-scoring Spartan Invita-
tional on Friday.
Junior Danielle Tauro was the
team's top finisher at Forest Akers
East Golf Course, placing second
overall with a time of 21:19.
"I felt really good at 3K," Tauro
said. "At 4K, Michigan State start-
ed to pick up the pace. I just tried
to keep the gap within reasonable
distance."
While the veteran Tauro led
the Wolverines, true freshmen
Kaitlyn Patterson and Rebecca
Addison started their careers off
strong in their first-ever six-kilo-
meter race.
Patterson finished ninth at
21:56 and Addison came in 12th
at 22:07.
"Kaitlyn is improving leaps and
bounds since high school," Tauro
said. "She's surprising us with
how fast she's running, oniy being
with the team for a few months."
Michigan head coach Mike
McGuire was pleased with the
results from the Spartan Invita-
tional.
"Our first three ran a step
up from the Michigan Open,"
McGuire said of the Sept. 4 meet.
"Today was like my stocks- a few
up, a few down. We are moving
forward and progressing with
several of them."
The biggest challenge of the day
was runningwithoutjunior Jenny
Morgan and freshman Jill Smith.
They pulled out of the lineup due
HURRICANES
From page 1B
She finished the day with eight
saves.
Kopmeyer was tested again with
less than a minute left to play. Two
Miami players charged a ball that
bounced into the box, and Kop-
meyer saw the ball come in behind
the defense. She tried to beat them
to the ball and punch it away, and
got just enough of it to get it away
from the offense. The ball rolled
towards the goal, but Carron was

4

4

Junior Adam Keller scores a goal in Michigan's 5-1 rout of Western Michigan on Saturday.
Five Wolverines

Junior DanielleTauro placed second in the non-scoring Spartan Invitational this
Friday. The Wolverines placed three runners in the top10.
to a cold and calf injury, respec- good."
tively, but are both expected to Tauro feels that by executing
return to full strength soon. the team's strategy of moving
"We have a solid team," .in packs, the Wolverines will be
McGuire said. "It was nice to see tcompetitive this season.
some improvement. "As long as we continue to move
"But with the addition of Jenny forward, times get faster, and we
and Jill later on, we will be strong feed off of each other's energy, we
through the first four and looking will be ready to go," Tauro said.

in the right place to coddle it away
from the net.
The game was also dictated by
very physical play. Michigan and
Miami combined for 25 fouls. Hein
said that physical games earlier in
the season allowed the Wolverines
to adapt and be prepared for games
like yesterday's.
The Hurricanes even had to play
a man down for the last 12 minutes
of the game when junior Miami
defender Brittney Macdonald was
given her second yellow card of the
game.
But Ryan knows Michigan beat a

very good Miami team.
"This is a teamthat (Miami coach
Tricia Taliaferro) has been recruit-
ing for years and years," Ryan said.
"It's a very talented team. They're
very tall. They're very athletic and
fast and skillftl. They're smart. And
I've got a team that's being rebuilt."
Even though the Hurricanes
were talented, Michigan beat them
with help from each other.
"That was the difference all day,"
Ryan said. "If somebody was mak-
ing mistakes somebody was cover-
ing up for it. And that allowed us to
have the shutout."

notch
Shooting practice on
Friday pays off
during victory over
winless WMU
By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan's defense has been
stingy, its offense explosive, and
its goalkeeping impeccable.
But the team's glaring weakness
has been finishing, so in practice
on Friday, the Wolverines focused
extensively on shooting. On Sat-
urday, they reaped the benefits in
Kalamazoo.
Five Wolverines scored in
Michigan's 5-1 thrashing of West-
ern Michigan at the WMU Soc-
cer Complex. Junior defender
Adam Keller opened the scoring
extravaganza in the 33rd minute,
netting Michigan's first opening-

goals ii
half goal of the season. Michigan
coach Steve Burns called the play a
nominee for the top-10 goals of the
year, as Keller blasted a one-timer
into the bottom left corner.
"Keller gotthe first goal and that
kind of set the tone for the rest of
the game," senior captain Julian
Robles said. "Once you get that
first one against certain teams, it
builds our confidence up. We were
just continuing to create chances."
Star forward Mauro Fuzetti
was sidelined with a hyperextend-
ed knee, but Michigan's offense
appeared unfazed. The Wolver-
ines (6-1) sent long balls down
the flanks, watched their speedy
forwards blaze by defenders, and
ended the half with a 2-0 lead.
Michigan's backline dictated
the game's tempo as the Wol-
verines found themselves with
enough time to reverse the point of
attack and catch the Broncos (0-6)
out of position. The Wolverines
outshot Western Michigan 10-1 in

the period.
With a sizeable lead in the sec-
ond half, Burns rested his starters
and watched his reserves ice the
game assertively. Redshirt fresh-
man midfielder Alex Klein and
junior midfielder Alex Wood con-
tinued the rout, with each tallying
their first career goals.
"We brought in a couple guys
off the bench to hopefully main-
tain the level of play and they did
a great job of not having a drop off
of levels," Robles said. "We kept on
attacking, we kept creating chanc-
es and we probably could have had
a couple more."
The Wolverines controlled play
from start to finish for the first
time all season, raiding the attack-
ing box for much of the game.
But most importantly, they fin-
ished.
"This was the first game where ,
we came out and there was never a
question who would win the game,"
Keller said. "We dominated."

n rout

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

September 21, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom September 21, 2009 - 3B

GAME STATISTICS
TeamStats MICH E.MICH

Rinso says he's ot jst a runner

FistDons
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
Comp/Att/Int
Offensiv'ePlays
Total Ofese
Kikreturn/ Yds
Puntreturn/ Yds
PuHn/Avg
Fmbles/Lost
Pnalties/Yads
TimeB of PossN

17
39/380
68
7/17/2
56
448
3/60
1/-2
4/45.5
1/0
2/20
19:58
M I C H I G A N
C-A Yds
7-13 68
0-4 0
7-1 68

177
48/179
106
15/26/1
74
285
6/81
1/6
7/424
1/1
4/30
40:02

PASSING
Player
Forcir
Robinson
Totals
RUSHING
Player
Brown
Robinson
Shaw
Odoms
Smith
orcier
RECEIVING
Player f
Odoms
Grady, Kel.
Stonum
Hemigwy
Totals
PUNTING
Player
KCKOFF RETURNS
Player
Stonum '
Totas
PUNTRETURNS
Player
Mathews
Totas
TACKLES
Player
Leach
Ezeh
Ga
Willams
Herron
wooPlk -
Martin
assoko
Simmons
Johnson
Smith, V.
Panks
Smith,B.
Fitzgerald
Campbell
Koger
Ea
PASSING
Payer
Totals
SHING
Priest
Gillett
Schmitt
SSherer
we"ch
Tem
Totals
RECEIVING
Player
VSanders
Gage
Priest
,her-r
Twtals -
PUNTING
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player
Totas
PUNT RETURNS
Player
Tta
TACKLES
Hatchet
Downrd
Ohran
Mwa

Cordick
Hicks
Gowns
Palsrok
Mulumba
Rose
Leonard
Totals

TD
0
0
0

Att
13
3
9
2
3
1
2
6
38
No.
2
2
1
1
1
7

Yds
191
60
53
31
21
13
10
5
190
Yds
33
14
10
7
4
68

Avg
14.4
20.0
5.9
5.0
.8
5.0
Avg
16.5
7.0
10.0
70
10.4

Lg
90
36
22
24
13
13
10
21
32
Lg
26
11
10
7
4
26

int
0
2
2
TD
2
2
1
0
0
1
0
0
2
TD
0
0
0
0
0
0

No. Yds Avg 28
NK HAN 45I. GB5 T
No. Yds Avg lg TD
3 60 20.0 25 0
3 60 20.0 2s5 0
No. Yds Avg lg TD
1 -2 -2.0 -2 0
1 -2 -2.0 -2 0

Solo
3
2
4
2
4
2
1
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
2
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
40
astern
C-A
13.22
2.4
15-26

Asst Tot
7 10
7 9
4 8
5 7
2 6
4 6
4 5
1 4
1 4
2 4
2 4
2 4
2 4
0 2
0 2
1 2
2 2
0 1
0 1
0 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
50 90
n M i c h i g a n
Yds TD
97 0
9 0
106 0

Att
27
6
5
5
t
2
1
1
48
No.
4
4
2
2
t
1
1
75

Yds
91
36
26
3
-3
41
179

Avg
3.4
6.0
5.2
15
-30
3.7
Avg
8.0
7.75
7.0
9.0
7.0
134

Lg
11
14
24
2
24
L9
14
10
12
9
7
14

Int
1
a
1
TO
1
0
1
a
0
0
0
0
2
TO
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
Quarterback Denard Robinson's
blazing speed has already beer
well-documented and highly publi-
cized. But after having almost foul
fewer months than fellow fresh-
man quarterback Tate Forcier tt
learn the offensive playbook, Rob-
inson's passing game hasn'tobeen ir
the spotlight.
"Denard always wants to prove
he can throw the ball," Michigar
coach Rich Rodriguez said afte
Saturday's 45-17 win over Easterr
Michigan. "He
made a couple NOTEBOO}
decisions today
that maybe
weren't the best, but he can make
all the throws. As coaches, we have
to remember he's only three games
into his career."
Robinson disagreed with Rodri-
guez's assessment.
"I'm not trying to prove noth-
ing," Robinson said. "I'mnot trying
to prove to nobody, just myself"
When Robinson tried to thros
in this week's game, the results
weren't pretty. He finished 0-for-4
with two interceptions Saturday
though his best pass was one tha
was negated. He currently has a
-6.10 passer rating through three
games.
The freshman came in at quar-
terback with Michigan up 24-10
late in the first half and lofted a
beautiful 24-yard pass to wide
receiver Martavious Odoms, who
caught the ball before running ou
of bounds. But when the play was
reviewed, Odoms was found to nol
have full possession of the ball and
the catch was overturned.
Robinson tried again, this time
throwing a pass about 35 yards
down the field for Odoms. But East-
ern Michigan defensive back Chris
May leaped in front of Odoms fo
the interception, and the Eagles
scoredontheensuingdrivetobring
the game within seven by halftime
His other interception came again
at the hands of May with about fou
minutes left in the game.
"One of them was a misread, and
one of them wasn't," quarterbacks
coach Rod Smith said of the inter-
ceptions. "But like Isaid,that's how
you cut your teeth. He's going to be
'D' looks
in sluggis
By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
Judging by the scoreboard at
halftime Saturday, it seemed like
Michigan still hadn'tgotten over
its Notre Dame hangover.
By the end of Saturday's first
half, the Wolverines led Eastern
Michigan by just seven points.
The Eagles had 11 first downs to
Michigan's nine. After averag-
ing 106 rushing yards through
their first two games, Eastern
Michigan had already racked
up 128 rushing yards in the first
half alone.
It seemed like the Wolverines
were primed for a letdown after
all of last week's hype following
Michigan's 38-34 comeback win
against the Fighting Irish.
But listening to redshirt
junior linebacker Obi Ezeh, it
sounds like the slow start simply
might be because the Wolver-
ines aren't morning people.
"You try to avoid it, but it
was an early game," Ezeh said.
"We've been used to these 3 p.m.
games. I don't want to use that
as an excuse, but guys get used
to things, and you change it up

and you have to give them time
to grow accustomed to it. I'm
glad we survived this one, but
we have to be ready in the first
quarter next time."
Regardless of the underlying
mental reasons, the Wolverine
defense was missing reads, hav-
ing difficulty anticipating plays
and not controlling gaps in the
first half. The Eagle offense ran
plays the Wolverines hadn't seen
on tape, and the defense was ini-
tially slow to adjust.
One of those missed reads led
to Eastern's first touchdown,
on a play-action fake from the
Michigan 11-yard line. Eagles
quarterback Andy Schmitt faked
a handoff to Eastern Michigan
running back Terrence Blevins,
and as senior defensive end
Brandon Graham fell for the
play, Schmitt rolled to the right
and easily ran into the corner of
the end zone. The touchdown
tied the score at 10 with 11 min-
utes left in the first half.
"We was killing ourselves,
we was missing assignments
early in the game," Graham said.
"We was thinking too much out
there. We went out there, we
weren't calm."
After the defense's uninspired
first half, it came out in the third
quarter ready to play. The Wol-
verines held the Eagles scoreless
with just 51 rushing yards and
six first downs in the whole sec-
ond half
Late in the third quarter,
Schmitt, under pressure, threw
the ball as Obi Ezeh flew toward
him. Ezeh's hit knocked the ball

S
1
r
i
1
r
i
K
a
S
or
s
t,

Freshman Denard Robinson ran for 60 yards and two touchdowns on three carries agairst Eastern MiChigan Saturday.

Yds
32
31
14
9
7
106

i fine, and we'll keep working him
and getting him ready."
Robinson came to Michigan
partially because it was one of the
- only schools that recruited him as a
quarterbackandplannedtousehim
a for more than just his speed. Fol-
lowing Forcier's big game against
Notre Dame last week, Rodriguez
t insisted that Robinson would con-
s tinue to take snaps at quarterback
t and that the team has no plans to
I make him a slot receiver.
"Oh, yeah, yes. I'm a quarter-
back, I'm not just a running back,"
A said Robinson after Saturday's
- game, when asked if he was pre-
s pared to throw 15 to 20 passes in a
r future game. "That's the only posi-
s tion I play."
But Robinson looked like he
. could easily play the part of a star
a running back Saturday, with 60
r yards and two touchdowns on just
three carries. The scores came
I when the game was already out of
s reach, but Robinson ran the ball in
- the end zone both times in impres-
sive fashion.
On a third-and-two on the East-
weak
h start
off course and freshman Craig
Roh fell on the ball for the inter-
ception, which gave the Wolver-
ines possession at the Eastern
Michigan 21-yard line. The Wol-
verines scored a few plays later to
make the score 38-17 and put the
game effectively out of reach.
As the Wolverine defense
made adjustments and the explo-
sive Michigan offense scored 21
unanswered points, the Eagles
felt forced to rely more on their
passinggame.
"It took us out of our running
game," Eastern Michigan coach
Ron English said. "We just felt
that we needed to catch up, so
we had to throw the ball a little
bit more than we wanted to."
But the Eagles could only
muster 62 yards in the air during
the third and fourth quarters.
And on what ended up being its
last legitimate scoring chance of
the game, with about 11 minutes
left in the fourth quarter, the
Michigan defense overpowered
Eastern Michigan's running
game, too. The Eagles couldn't
score after reaching the Michi-
gan 9-yard line on a first-and-
goal. With third down and two
yards to go for a touchdown,
Eagles running back Dwayne
Priest was stuffed behind the
line of scrimmage by four Mich-
igan defenders. Eastern Michi-
gan ended up turning the ball
over on downs.
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez said after the game he
wasn't particularly concerned
about the defense's play, since
the team needs to improve on
all three phases. Still, after a
sluggish second quarter by the
Wolverine defense and an over-
matched secondary against
Notre Dame last week, this
week marks the second in a row
that the Michigan defense hasn't
dominated for all 60 minutes.
Before Saturday's game, the
Wolverine defense was second-
to-last in the Big Ten in total
defense, allowing 301total yards
to Western Michigan and 490 to
Notre Dame. Though Saturday's
game could overall be consid-
ered an improvement on paper -
Eastern Michigan racked up 285
yards - the defense's tendencies
to miss reads and not fill in the
gaps could still be a major con-

cern come Big Ten season.
"They were doing some things
to us that we hadn't repped, and
that we hadn't seen all week,"
Ezeh said. "So we just had to
make some minor adjustments,
you know, and eliminate a lot of
the big plays that you saw in the .
first half.
"We came out in the second
half with a kind of renewed
energy and just really resolved
on stopping Eastern Michigan."

ern Michigan 13-yard line, Robin-
son came into the game, kept the
ball off the snap and shook off four
separate Eastern Michigan tackle
attempts en route to the goal line.
His second touchdown was a dis-
play of pure speed as he zig-zagged
through the Eagles defense for a
36-yard score.
Through three games, Robin-
son is the team leader in rushing
touchdowns and second in rushing
yards.
LEACH SURPRISES: Another
week, another walk-on standout.
Last week, it was open tryouts
walk-on Jordan Kovacs, who came
in during the second half of the
tight game against Notre Dame
after safety Mike Williams was
injured. This Saturday, walk-on
linebacker Kevin Leach started,
for the Wolverines after linebacker
Jonas Mouton was suspended for
one game.
Mouton appeared to punch
Notre Dame center Eric Olsen in
the face during last Saturday's
game. The act was a point of con-
tention all week, with Rodriguez

his tackle total from last year in
just one game Saturday, leading the
team in tackles with 10 (three solo
and seven assisted).
One of his notable tackles came
on a third-down Eastern Michigan
stop and another helped preserve
the Michigan defense's second-half
shutout after Eastern Michigan had
a first-and-goal in the fourth quar-
ter with the Wolverines up 38-17.
Leach and freshman Craig Roh
stopped quarterback Andy Schmitt
at the six-yard line, and the Eagles
eventually turned the ball over on
downs at the Michigan five-yard
line.
INJURY REPORT: With right
guard David Moosman already
out against Eastern Michigan, the
offensive line couldn't afford to lose
another starter.
That's why Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez sounded so concerned
during the post-game press con-
ference when he said center David
Molk may have suffered a serious
foot injury.
Molk told coaches his foot was
bothering him in the first half of
Saturday's game and left the game
inthe second half.IfMolk can't play
next week against Indiana,redshirt
freshman Rocko Khoury or Moos-
man may take his place.
At running back, Carlos Brown
got the start over senior Brandon
Minor on Saturday. Minor had just
three carries for21yards, all on the
Wolverines' first touchdown drive
of the game. Minor has had a frus-
trating senior season so far - a nag-
ging ankle injury also kept him out
of the Western Michigan game.
"He tried to go a little bit, but
after a few series he said, 'Coach,
it's really sore.'So we said we'd hold
him out of there," Rodriguez said.
As he has all season, though,
Minor discounted the idea of any
possible injuries.
"Oh, yeah," he said, when asked
after the game if he is in good
health.
Safety Mike Williams also left
the game with an injury, and fresh-
man quarterback Tate Forcier was
momentarily stunned on the field
after a play in the third quarter but
played the next offensive series.
Rodriguez said after the game that
Forcier was bruised and had the
wind knocked out of him.

denying he had seen any wrong-
doing during Wednesday's press,
conference. Michigan lineback-
ers coach Jay Hopson said during
Thursday night's radio show that
the referee was right in front of
the play and would have called it
if there was an issue, but Big Ten
officials announced Friday that the
league was punishing Mouton for
one game.
Leach said the Michigan coach-
ing staff told him Thursday after-
noon that he would get the start.
"I call him the second Kovacs
because he came in and he didn't
lose a step just like (Kovacs) last
week," junior strong safety Troy
Woolfolk said. "Actually, Kovacs
came in again and did his thing. So
we have two good second-string
people who can play just like the
first string."
Though Leach played in six
games last year, two of those at
linebacker, this Saturday's game
was the first he played from start
to finish.
Last season,he finished with just
two assisted tackles. He quintupled

MAX COLLINS/Daily

Sophomore Mike Shaw ran for 53 yards and a touChdown on nine carries.

B. VAN Avg IA
7 297 42.4 54
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
4 VA 10. G7 7 0
6 81 13.5 19 0
No. Yds Avg L.g TD

Sob
4
5
b
2
3
3
t
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
0
35

Asst
5
3
0
3
0
0
2
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
16

Tot
9
8
6
5
3
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
51

EAGLES
From page 1B
it's a big momentum-booster,"
sophomore running back Mike
Shaw said. "And it's also letting the
Big Ten know, 'Hey, don't just worry
about the freshman quarterback.
We got a running game that can put
up 350 yards'"
Senior Brandon Minor, who is still
nursing an ankle injury, took limited
carries against Eastern Michigan.
But the Wolverines pounded the
ball with Carlos Brown. Then Mi-
nor. Then Mike Shaw, Denard Rob-
inson, Vincent Smith and Michael
Cox. Even wide receiver Martavi-
ous Odoms got into the fun, taking
an end-around reverse in for a 13-
yard touchdown.
It didn't matter who carried the
ball - the Eagles couldn't slow any
of them down.
"We wanted to try to get as
many guys in as we could," Michi-
gan quarterbacks coach Rod Smith
said. "You know, get their feet wet,

and get them some playing time.
That's important. We think we
have a great stable of tailbacks, and
we're deep."
All told, Michigan posted 380
yards on the ground - the most in
the Rich Rodriguez era - and eight
players registered at least one dou-
ble-digit gainer. The Wolverines av-
eraged an outstanding 9.7 yards per
rush which was boosted by Carlos
Brown's 90-yard scamper, the third-
longest rushing play in Michigan
football history.
And that's exactly how the Wol-
verines planned it.
"We wanted to come in and es-
tablish the run from the beginning,"
sophomore wideout Darryl Stonum
said. "We studied a lot of film and
we saw that they left the middle of
the field wide open, so that's where
all our big runs came from. We just
wanted to~gash the middle of the
field, and that's what we did today."
The Eagles (0-3) have been weak
against the run all season, giving up
300 yards on the ground to triple-
option heavy Army in an opening-

week loss.
The offensive line took advan-
tage, opening large gaps all game for
the running backs to get to the sec-
ond level. Once they were there, the
Eagles had no answer.
"Some of our fast guys did a great
job of hitting it north and south,
pulled away from defenders and
showed some speed, which was
nice to see"Rodriguez said. "Butwe
weren't particularly sharp throwing
the ball, so it was a good thing we
could run.'
Through three games, the Wol-
verines arethe No.1rushing offense
in the Big Ten, averaging more than
270 yards a game. That will give op-
ponents nightmares as conference
play begins next week.
"We love it," said Shaw who
posted 57 yards and a touchdown.
"When (Brown) is in there, we're
cheering him on, and then he comes
to the sideline and tells us what the
defense is doing. Then when it's our
time to go, we do what we can do.
And we just keep rotating and keep
each other fresh.


BIG TEN STANDINGS
Team Big Ten Overall
Michigan 0 0 3 0
Indiana 0 0 3 0
Iowa 0 0 3 0
Penn State 0 0 3 0
Wisconsin 0 0 3 0
Minnesota 0 0 2 1
Northwestern 0 0 2 1
Ohio State 0 0 2 1
Illinois 0 0 1 1
Michigan State 0 0 1 2
S Purdue 0 0 1 2
Big Ten Results
Michigan 45, Eastern Michigan 17
Notre Dame 33, Mich. St. 30
Ohio State 38, Toledo 0
Indiana 38, Akron 21
Penn State 31, Temple 6
Iowa 27, Arizona 17
Wisconsin 44, Wofford 14
Northern Illinois 28, Purdue 21
California 35, Minnesota 21
Syracuse 37, Northwestern 34

LINCOLN
From page 1B
Brown exploded in the Wolverines'
eighthloss ofthe season for115 yards.
But as the cold mix of rain and snow
fell over Michigan Stadium with a
bowl game already out of reach, his
breakout game went relatively un-
noticed.
What made his performance Sat-
urday so special was the way it hap-
pened. With a rushing outburst that
earned him Big Ten Offensive Player
of the week honors, Brown was fi-
nally in the center of it all.
Whether he embraced it or not,
Saturday was Carlos Brown's day.
And for his sake, you have to feel
good for him.
Although he started because of
an ailing Minor, Minor's physicality
was not missed Saturday. Instead, it
was Brown's characteristic elusive
speed and breakout power that drew

cheers.
Rather than running straight to
the locker room following the game,
it was Brown who was swarmed by
reporters. And he answered every
question with the same consider-
ation and compassion that's kepthim
around Ann Arbor for four years.
Following his freshman year,
Brown considered transferring. As a
high school quarterback turned run-
ning back, Brown wasn't sure how
he fit in with former Michigan coach
Lloyd Carr's offense.
"I knew my heart was here and
Coach (Carr) always told me pa-
tience was a virtue," Brown recalled.
"And that iflI waited one day, I would
get a shot to play here."
Brown's playing opportunities
have been few and far between. But
he's used his time in the shadows to
be a player Michigan fans could be
proud of.
Before a 2008 Capital One Bowl
team event, Brown befriended a
five-year old boy named Lonnie and

laughed and played with him for the
better part of two hours. Lonnie was
blind, and that had a special meaning
for Brown.
"We had a little special connec-
tion, because when I was younger,
my little brother (Angelo) lost sight
in one of his eyes," Brown told The
Ann Arbor News in December 2007.
"My little brother was younger than
that when it happened..It was an
accident. He was like 3 years old....
He's got one eye, but now I think he
sees better than I can."
Brown may have been destined
for the spotlight when he came to
Ann Arbor. He was supposed to be
the one to make 110,000 fans in the
Big House feel good. But in passing,
he's always been a Michigan Man on
the sidelines.
It's time for us to feel good for
Brown. He's certainly done enough
to deserve it.
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr@umich.edu.

'.


4B - Septermber 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

0

MAIZE GAUGE

The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Mesk-o-Meter measures the success of special teams, the Rod-o-Meter
judges how emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

0

.
V4
' ' '
i .. ^.. ...wt
-\ 4
.
' .

ROD-O-METER
3 When your team matches last year's win totaljust14
days into the season, it has to feel good. Rodriguez was
lighthearted and drew laughs when he addressed the
Rich Rods
officiating by "pleading the fifth." But while talking about
key Michigan injuries, he shed the smile pretty quickly.

MESK-O-METER

I

3/
Zoltans

After watching Darryl Stonum race his way to a
touchdown off a kickoff return last week, we were
expecting more from the special teams. Sure,
they didn't screw up at all during the game -but
they didn't do anything spectacular, either.

HYPE-0-METER
1/4 "Yawn." That seemed to be the general sentiment in
Michigan Stadium when the game started. And it never
got much louder than that. Yeah, we know the Wolver-
Big Houses
Ines were playing Eastern Michigan. But you have to get
excited about every win, especially after last season.

0


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

MAX cOLLINS/Daly FE PHOTO
RUNNING BACK MICHAEL SHAW CENTER DAVID MOLK
Fellow running back Carlos Brown will have Everyone's been crediting the offensive line for
everyone talking days after his 187-yard, two- Michigan's 380-yard game - and deservedly so.
touchdown game. But we always knew he had But if redshirt sophomore David Molk broke his
wheels. Sophomore Michael Shaw was the one foot as Wolverine coach Rich Rodriguez feared
in the backfield who pleasantly surprised us. after the game Saturday, it would certainly be the
Even though he missed spring practice for sports biggest loss from the weekend. Since redshirting
hernia surgery, he looked healthier than ever his freshman year, Molk has started every game
with 53 yards and a score on nine carries. of his career at center - 15 contests in a row.

NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
Yeah, our sideline was
nuts. I actually (was)
trying to get to him to
celebrate in the end
zone and he took off
on me, so I was like,
'All right, forget it. I'll
jog. I'll catch you on
the sideline.'"
- Michigan wide receiver Darryl
Stonum on running back Carlos Brown's
90-yard touchdown run.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top 10 returns for its first installment this season. Each week,
Daily Sports staffers will fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points,
second-place votes receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with first-
place votes in parentheses.
1. FLORIDA (6): We were 6. MISSISSIPPI: Swine flu: 3,
disappointed the Gators Rebels: 0. Again, we'd take
didn't hang 80on Lane an SEC matchup over one
Kiffin's Vols. with a pandemic any week.

1.TEXAS (3): Texas Tech
is a lot more manageable
sans Michael Crabtree. The
'Horns are tied with Florida
this week atop our poll.
3. ALABAMA: 'Bama had
about as balanced an attack
as possible: 263 yards in the
air and 260 on the ground.
4. PENN STATE: Were you
around in 1941, the last time
Temple beat PennState?
JoePa was.

7. BOISE STATE: Time
to put this one on cruise
control with a ribbon on top.
Hello, undefeated season.
8. LSU: Apparently
everyone in Louisiana is a
Tigers fan. La.-Lafayette
didn't threaten for a second.
9. MIAMI: Ahh, it feels like
the '90s again. Miami tore
through a second-straight
ranked opponent.

10. OKLAHOMA: Sam who?
5. CAL: Running back Redshirt freshman Landry
Jahvid Best:35, Minnesota: Jones filled in for the
21. Oh wait, that was also the Heisman winner and set the
final score, school's touchdown record.

Senior running back Carlos Brown pulls away from the Eagle defense for a 90-yard touchdown.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily Football writers do their
best to predict what happens Michael Ruth Courtney Andy
Eisenstein Lincoln Ratkowiak Reid
in the 2009 tootball season.


No. 25Michigan (-24) vs. EMU
No.1 Florida (-29.5) vs. Tennessee
No.2 Texas (-17.5) vs. Texas Tech
No. 3 USC (-20) at Washington
No.4Alabama (-38) vs. North Texas
No. SMississippi (NS) vs. SE Louisiana
No. 5 Penn State (-30) vs. Temple
No. 7 BYU (-8) vs. Florida State
No. 8 California (-14) at Minnesota
No.9 LSU (-26.5) vs Louisiana-Lafayette
No.10 Boise St. (-7.5) at Fresno St
No.11 Ohio State (-20.5) at Toledo
No.12 Oklahoma (-17.5) vs. Tulsa
No.13 VA Tech (-5) vs. No.19 Nebraska
No.14 GA Tech (+5) at No. 20 Miami
No.15TCU (-33.5) vs. Texas St.
No.16 Oklahoma St. (-33) vs. Rice
No.17 Cincinnati (-1) at Oregon St.
No.18 Utah (+5) at Oregon
No. 22 Kansas (-22.5) vs. Duke
No.23 Georgia (+1.5) at Arkansas
No. 24UNC (-7.5) vs. E. Carolina
This Week
Overall

Michigan
Tennessee
Texas Tech
Southern Cal
North Texas
Mississippi
Penn State
Florida State
California
LSU
Boise State
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Nebraska
Miami
Texas State
Rice
Cincinnati
Utah
Duke
Arkansas
North Carolina
14-7-1
43-21-1

Michigan
Florida
Texas Tech
Washington
North Texas
Mississippi
Penn State
BYU
Minnesota
Louisiana-Lafayette
Boise State
Ohio State
Tulsa
Nebraska
Miami
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Cincinnati
Utah
Kansas
Arkansas
North Carolina
12-9-1
39-25-1

Eastern Michigan
Florida
Texas
Washington
Alabama
Mississippi
Penn State
Florida State
California
LSU
Fresno St
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Nebraska
Georgia Tech
Texas State
Rice
Cincinnati
Oregon
Duke
Arkansas
North Carolina
12-9-1
39-25-1

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Southern Cal
Alabama
Mississippi
Penn State
BYU
California
LSU
Boise State
Toledo
Oklahoma
Nebraska
Miami
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Cincinnati
Utah
Duke
Georgia
North Carolina
12-9-1
33-31-1

Guest Picker:
Phil Rose
Eastern Michigan
Florida
Texas
Washington
North Texas
Mississippi
Penn State
BYU
Minnesota
LSU
Boise State
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Miami
Texas State
Oklahoma State
Cincinnati
Oregon
Kansas
Arkansas
North Carolina
11-10-1
37-27-1

To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


