Admombob.-
46P 46Y
ic i an at

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, September 11, 2009A

michigandaily.com

THE STACKIN' CHAIRS CLUB

School of Education graduate student David Mickey-Pabello helps pile chairs used during this year's Festifall on the Diag. About 1,000 chairs were used at more than 450 tables at the event
to showcase University clubs. (Max Collins/Daily)
FO TBALL SATURDAYS
AT&T can't handle the Big House

JOHN ROBERTS'S VISIT
The chief
still calls
the shots
In Law School class, Supreme
Court chief justice overrides
dean and cold-calls on student
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
When Law School Dean Evan Caminker makes a
decision in one his classrooms, his orders are usually
followed to the tee. Except, of course, when the chief
justice of the United States Supreme Court also hap-
pens to be in the room.
It all started when Caminker was showing Chief
Justice John Roberts around the Law School as part
of Roberts's visit to honor the 150th anniversary ofthe
school.
After visiting with a class for some time, Caminker
told Roberts he only had time for one more question,
according to ane-mail from Law School student Jor-
dan Peterson, who was in the class.
"After taking one more question, without missing a
beat, Roberts responded to all of us, 'The great thing
about being chief justice is that you can overrule the
dean. 1 can do another question or two before we go,'"
Peterson recounted in the e-mail.
The chief justice is spending the weekend in Ann
Arbor to participate in the groundbreaking of the
Law School's new academic building, interact with
students and take part in other activities - including
attending the Notre Dame game at the Big House.
As part oT his visit, Roberts stopped by the Law
School facilities yesterday and dropped in on Prof.
William Miller's property law class.
Students in the class began wondering what was
going on when the "big men in suits" started filing in
to the back of the classroom, according to Law School
student Adam Weiner.
In an e-mail, Weiner said one of his friends turned
to him and said, "Who do these guys think they are,
Secret Service?"
Of course, it actually was the Secret Service.
"We saw Caminker and then we saw the chief jus-
tice and then we knew they were Secret Service,"
Weiner wrote.
It was just another Thursday for Law School stu-
dent Angel Tang, or so she thought.
"You're walking to class thinking 'I hope I'm not
See LAW SCHOOL, Page 7A

Major service outage
last weekend lasted
through Sunday
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
As thousands of students made their
way to the Big House for the first home
football game of the season, many with
AT&T phone services faced challenges
they weren't expecting.
For many AT&T customers in the
Ann Arbor area, Saturday brought a
service outage - meaning AT&T cus-
tomers were not able to use their phones
to place or receive phone calls and text
messages. AT&T customers report-
edly complained of service disruptions
through late Sunday evening.
Amy Grundman, an AT&T spokes-
person, wrote in an e-mail that AT&T is

aware of the difficulties with its servic-
es in the AnnArbor areaand is working
to fix the complications. Grundman did
not indicate whether or not the system
would be fixed in time for the much-
anticipated Notre Dame game this
weekend at the Big House.
"We're aware that some AT&T wire-
less customers experienced intermit-
tent service disruptions in downtown
Ann Arbor during last Saturday's Uni-
versity of Michigan football game,"
she said. "We're responding by add-
ing capacity to cell sites that serve the
campus area to support fast-growing
wireless network volumes driven by
increased smartphone use."
Grundman said she expects the
problems will be fixed over the next
few weeks, but that she didn't know a
specific date.
Grundman also said AT&T appreci-
ates their customers' patience and apol-
ogize for any inconveniences.
Many students were affected by Sat-

urday's outage, including Engineering
junior Nelson Palomaki, who said he
had trouble with his phone before and
during the game.
"I couldn't get or send any texts," he
said. "And later I got SO from people
who were trying to get in touch with
me."
Andrew Martin, also an Engineering
junior, said the most frustrating part of
the AT&T phone service outage was his
inability to reach other people to find
out where they were and to try to meet
up with them.
"It was frustrating, especially when
I had friends that were sitting in differ-
ent seats and I was trying to get in touch
with them, but couldn't," he said.
LSA junior Jeff DeSano said he expe-
rienced difficulties in past years during
football games, but that last weekend
was worse than normal.
"Every game it seems to happen, it's
ridiculous," he said. "But last week was
pretty extreme."

DeSano said he didn't get service
backuntil Monday morning, which was
especially annoying when he was try-
ing to reach people on Sunday.
LSA sophomore Calvin Gee said his
phone didn't work while he was in the
Big House and only started working
again once he was walking back toward
his apartment.
"There was nothing really in the
way for interference but I just didn't
have any signal," he said. "I couldn't
even make a call or text message or use
the Internet. Nothing really worked so
there was no point in using it."
LSA sophomore Cassandra Pentz-
ien had a similar experience with her
phone working outside of the stadium,
but not while she was inside.
"It seemed like I could make calls
and text outside the actual stadium,
but right when I'd go inside the stadium
with my phone my texts wouldn't go
through and I wasn't able to make any
calls," she said.


GREEK LIFE
Early schedule and poor
'economy don't slow rush

SWITCHING SEATS

UM-HILLEL
At 'U,' Birthright.
plans get upgrade

Recruitment moved
up because of Jewish
High Holidays
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
The beginning of the fall semes-
ter means football season and the
start of classes, but for many stu-
dents at the University, it means
something else.
Endless singing on Hill Street
and flocks of students wearing the
same T-shirt can only mean one
thing: It's time for rush.
The Interfraternity Council
and the Panhellenic Council, the
University's two largest Greek
councils, started their recruit-
ment, commonly known as rush,
this week. While in the past rush
for the two councils has always
taken place during the fall semes-
ter, Alex Carrick, IFC recruitment
vice president, said this year's rush
schedule is earlier than normal due
to the Jewish High Holidays and
the football game home schedule.
He added that there hasn't been
too much pressure to move rush to

later in the year.
"There have even been stud-
ies done here at U of M that show
that rushing first semester does
not negatively affect academ-
ics," he said. "Most chapters want
new members by the first week of
October, and trying to push it later
would interfere with new member
education."
Stephenie Lazarus, Panhel's vice
president of public relations, wrote
in an e-mail that although some
universities hold recruitment dur-
ing the winter semester, Michigan
Panhel likes to have recruitment
in the fall so new members won't
be biased by common stereotypes
about each chapter.
"It allows women to remain
impartial about chapters during
recruitment," she wrote in the
e-mail.
Lazarus wrote that she was ini-
tially concerned that the econom-
ic crisis would negatively affect
rush, but with two new sororities
- Alpha Epsilon Phi and Zeta Tau
Alpha - she anticipates recruit-
ment will be successful.
"Currently, we have more poten-
tial new members registered to take
See RUSH, Page 7A

For first time ever,
Michigan students
will have own bus
when visiting Israel
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily Staff Reporter
Amid talk of an unclear future
for Taglit-Birthright programs
around the country, officials from
the University's Hillel are offer-
ing new perks to their patrons,
an indication, they argue, of the
strength of UM-Hillel's program.
Last year, Hillel officials said
they had to turn away record
numbers of Jewish students from
the Taglit-Birthright Israel pro-
grambecause ofheightenednum-
bers and fewer spots compared to
preceding years not, as many had
suspected, the national economic
meltdown or fallout from Bernie
Madoff's Ponzi scheme - which
affected a disproportionate num-
ber of wealthy Jewish people and
charities.

The decreased numbers admit-
ted to the program last summer
followed a spur in enrollment
around Israel's 60th birthday
two summers ago, when Taglit-
Birthright opened special spots
for the occasion, organizations
said at the time.
This year, UM-Hillel's Pro-
gram Director Alison Sheren said
the continued fallout from the
economic recession has still not
soured the organization's Birth-
right plans.
"We are still offering great
itineraries, offering the opportu-
nity for students to travel all over
Israel," she said.
Sheren said the organiza-
tion's Birthright offerings have
increased since last year, not
because of increased funding, but
because of a special partnership
with a travel company.
"It's not a question of funding
at all, it is just when working with
a different partner, they are able
to offer us different resources."
Sheren said. "They were able to
provide us more spots than we
See BIRTHRIGHT, Page 7A

ED MOCH/Daily
Actress Drew Barrymore took part in a question-and-andswer session for stu-
dents on campus yesterday after a screening of her directorial debut "Whip It,"
Ann Arbor served as one of the movie's several shooting locations last summer.


WEATHER HI: 73
TOMORROW LO53

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS.................2A CLASSIFIEDS ......................6A
Daily's Vault: Rising against new technology Vol. CXX, No.4 OPI N ION ...........................4A SPORTS.........................8A
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THEEDITORS @2009The Michigan Daily ARTS..............................5A FOOTBALL SATURDAY.........1B
michifoodoilycom


4

2A - Friday, September 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arhor, MI 48109-1327
www.micfnigandaily.co"m
GARY GHACA DAN NEWMIAN~
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-a55a
graca@michsigandaily.com emdbnsinens@gsnaiLceem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Nensrnnm office hours:Sn.-Thnesuns.1 Can . m
News Tips news@msichigandaily.com

Corrections
letters to the Editor
Photography Deparment
Arts Section
Editnrial Page
Sports Sectin
Display Sales
Classified Sales

corctiosyiichigandaiy.con
totheaily@michigandaily.com
photoymichidgandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.con
opinion@michigandaiiy.com
sports@michsigandaily.com
displuay@michigandaily.com
clasiijed@michiguandaily.com

ABOVE Henry and Charles tranch view the Native American diorama in the Natural
History Museum. (Ariel Bond/Daily) TOP RIGHT Soney Burke (left) shields himself { EO LN
tram the rain with Ann Arhor locals Jon Wallace (left) and Geoffrey Scott (middle) MO E NL E
after giving an impassioned syeech to passershy on the diag on Tuesday. (Sam Wol- For more photos oflthe week,
son/Daily) BOTTOM RIGHT Freshman gathered at the New Student Convocation in goftomciadiycm
Crisler Arena on Thursday, Sept. 3, where President Mary Sue Coleman spoke to the
class of 2033 and invited students on a iourney of success. (Will Moeller/Daily).

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Student reports Fight breaks out Res. College Artist to give
missing bike in library Convocation lecture on her

WHERE: Mary Markley Resi- WHERE: Taubman Medical.
dence Hall Library
WHEN: Wednesday at about WHEN: Wednesday at about
3:15 p.m. 3:15 p.m.
WHAT: A student's bike was WHAT: An argument between
reported missing, Univer- former roommates, one of
sity Polite reported. The bike whom was a female student
was valued at $800 and was and the other a male unaffiliat-
believed to have been stolen ed with the University, result-
between 10 am. on Septenmber ed in a physical altercation,
8 and t0 am. on September 9. University Police reported.
Student found Identity stolen
with marijuana at B-School
WHERE: Stockwell Residence WHERE: School of Business
Mall WHEN: Wednesday at about
WHEN: Wednesday at about 4:45 p.m.
5:30 p.m. WHAT: A University student
WHAT: A University student reported his wallet missing
was arrested for possessing and noted charges made on his
marijuana in his room, Univer- credit cards, University Police
sity police reported. reported.
MORE ONLINE
Love Crimo Notes2 Get more online at michigaodaily~btibostewr

WHAT: A welcome ceremo- post-punk art
ny and mixer will be held for
all freshmen in the Residen- WHAT: Lisa Anne Auerb,
tial College. Refreshments will lecture on her subver.
will be served. sive brand of post-punk at
WHO: Residential College that mixes art and politics
Student Life Committee A reception and discussion
WHEN Tody frm 4 o 5 with refreshments, will ft
WHEN Tody frm 4 o ~ low the lecture. A receptic
p.m. and conversation with the
WHERE: East Quadrangle artist will follow at 6:30 p
South Dining Room in the UMMA Commons.

>ach
rt
)n,
a1-

Frank Batten Sr., 'the cre-
*ator of The Weather Chan-
nel, died at the age of 82
yesterday, USA Today report-
ed. Though media leaders dis-
missed- the idea of a channel
solely devoted to the weather
when he presented the idea in
the 1980s, the channel was sold
to NBC Universal and two pri-
vate equity firms for $3.5 bil-
lion last year.
2This semester, more than
5,000OUniversity students
and 96,000 students
across the state were expected
to receive aid from the Michi-
gan Promise Scholarship.
aFOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE SA,
3 Arecent national poli by
Rasmussen found that if
Canada were atteaked, 78
percent of Americans would
favor giving aid to Canada.,
Meanwhile, only 19 percent of
Americans favor aid and support
to Vietnam if it wus attacked.

Olie Sales ontineads~nmichigandaily.come
Finance finane@ninhioandaity.coe
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkoniak ManagingoEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobhSmiloitZ anasgingNew~sEdiorsiilovitz@michigandaily.com
SuNtaRNsEWSEDIOSoMataonn, JiliinoBernan, Trevoen o, nnaos
Skolle, Kye.ri s o
unSIonTusTsEWS EDITORS: Nicole uber, Maiiory Jones, Emiin 0l,Stepnie
Steinbrg,EsharThiru~nsvuiCnn..
Rohert Soave EditorialiPageEditor soave@eichigandaity.coe
Andy Reid MannagineSportstEditor reid@michigandaily.com
SEIRSORSEIOS N iceiAuerbach, MikesEisnstesin, IanKay,R0th
LinoniAluxrseri
uSSISTAuSPO s RS EDITORS: Mak Bunss, Chante Jennins, uiounc6,eRyns
Kartsls Chris Mszaros,Rn oens
Daid WatniCk Monaginguent ditore wanici@micfhigandailycom
SENIOR ASEDTORS Jamn~ie l, rnon onais, Whitone ow
Zachary Meisrer and photo@michigndaiysom
tilt Reeder ManagingrPhoto Ediors
SuNIORnPOTOnEOiRoSSidisalahChaneiVson.surgLothingen
uSSInS'TNPOTOEITnORS:oMaxsCoiins, ChisDzombak, Sam Wolso
AngelatChihand design@michiigandaily.com
Maureen Stych MaingtiesignsEditors
Jessica Vogerchian MagazinerEditosrvosgerchian@minhignndaiip.oonl
KatheineMitchell CopytChiee mitcheil@michigandiy.om
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozariak Ss Mnagier
MuAR uEN vuAGRicoovrSchrtenoe
Ryan Businski Clasiied Mnager
CLuSSIFIEDuASSISNsvANuGu R:Kayla Larat
Ben EglishProductsion Manaer
AllisnrSantatrea Layout Manager
Vioian Lee inance Manager
Brittany Morales Circuaonanagoer
Brad Wiley maiosectoordinator
The Michigan iDail ISS0745-6is pubisd Monday throughiirdayadurin the faltaninter
tesby studnts atthe nivsesii M chig an oy isaaibe refhrge t allread1nie.
Adidtinalicopis yb icked supattheiysoice or$2. Suscriptinsfor fallter,statin in
Stmbein, viaUS. maiire$0 inte r termr(anuareythrugh Aprl)is 1, yerlong (Septenber
thsdoug pilisti15.iverusit afiissaresbcttarnuedsiptionrt. O-campus
subscriions~ifll t~tter 3. Subsitiostmuns erepid. TheaMiian Daly isaebersof
ThevsosiatedrsnnThevsocitndicnmrnss., .

WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Tonight from 8:30
p.m. to 10 p.M.
WHERE: Museum of Art,

UMix

WHAT: This event will fea- Helmut Stern Auditorium
ture student performances,
arts and crafts, free food
and prizes will be provided.
Students should bring their
MCard to the event.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs CORRECTIONS
WHEN: Tonight from 10 p.m. 0 Please report any error
to 2 am. , in the Daily to corree-
WHERE: Michigan Union tions@michigandailycom.

4

4

4

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 11, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, September 11, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
ROCHESTER, Mich.
Michigan profs
back in class after
tentative deal
Students reported for class
Thursday at a suburban Detroit
university hours after professors
reached a tentative agreement that
ended a weeklong strike.
The three-year deal at Oakland
University included more money
for professors in the second year of
the proposed contract, expanded
health care choices, and it allowed
faculty to have say on the school's
future, according to the union.
"This agreement proves beyond
a doubt that we faculty were never
concerned with economics," said
Karen Miller, vice president of the
union's chapter that represents 450
faculty members at the public four-
year institution.
Professors on the 18,000-stu-
dent campus went on strike Sept. 3,
the day classes were to begin, after
the university proposed a three-
year wage freeze along with cuts in
health-insurance benefits.
WIXOM, Mich.
Granholm, Ford
discuss plans for
energy park
Longtime environmental advo-
cate and Ford Motor Co. Executive
Chairman Bill Ford Jr. on Thurs-
day formally announced a massive
recycling project - a $725 million
plan to retool a plant that once
made Thunderbirds into one that
churns out storage batteries and
solar panels.
"We're recycling our Wixom
facility and transforming it into
what we believe is the largest
renewable energy manufacturing
parkin theUnited States" Ford said
from the factory floor of the former
Wixom Assembly Plant, which
closed in 2007 after 50 years.
FordjoinedGov.JenniferGranholm
and officials from Xtreme Power of
Kyle, Texas, and Clairvoyant Energy
of Santa Barbara, Calif. The compa-
nies plan to buy the 320-are Wixom
Assembly Plant if state tax incentives
and federal loans are approved.
The Legislature gave final
approval to some of the tax breaks
Thursday, while others are expect-
ed to be passed and sent to Gra-
nholm next week.
WASHINGTON
Senate panel OKs
$128 billion for wars
With hardly any debate, a pow-
erful Senate committee Thurs-
day approved President Barack
Obama's $128 billion request for
military operations in Iraq and
Afghanistan for the budget year
beginning in October.
The move came as anxiety is in-
creasing on Capitol Hill over the
chances for success in Afghanistan
and as Obama weighs whether to
send more forces to the country.
The war funding was approved

as the Appropriations Commit-
tee voted unanimously for a $636
billion spending measure funding
next year's Pentagon budget. The
war funding would implement
Obama's order earlier this year
to add 21,000 more troops to Af-
ghanistan, which would bring the
total number of U.S. forces there
to 68,000 by the end of 2009.
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico
Mexican soldiers
arrest suspect
linked to 18 killings
Soldiers have arrested a man
suspected of killing 18 people in
a series of attacks this year in
violence-plagued Ciudad Juarez,
across from El Paso, Texas.
Michael Escalante, 29, of El
Paso, was allegedly a member of
"La Linea," a group of hit men
working for the Juarez drug cartel,
Mexico's Defense Department said
Thursday in a release. It was not
clear if Escalante had a legal repre-
sentative or what his nationality is.
Last week authorities arrested
two other alleged La Linea mem-
bers, charging one in 211 killings
and another in 33 killings.
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico's deadli-
est city, has seen more than 1,300
deaths this year.
Farther south in the Michoacan
state capital of Morelia, police said
Wednesday that they seized eight
counterfeit police and rescue vehi-
cles including an intensive care
ambulance with official-looking
logos and paint jobs.
- Compiled from
Doily wire reports

Reporters blame
NATO for death

President Barack Obama speaks to a joint session of Congress on health care in Washington, D.C. Wednesday.
Dem-s say. health care bll
to pass In coming! months
'0 t

Accuse troops of
'double standard' for
Afghan, Western lives
KABUL (AP) - A group of
Afghan journalists blamed inter-
national forces Thursday for the
death of a kidnapped colleague
during the British commando res-
cue of a New York Times reporter
and accused the troops of having
a "double standard" for Western
and Afghan lives.
The accusation came as British
Prime Minister Gordon Brown's
office said troops had carried
out the raid Wednesday in an
attempt to recover both British-
Irish reporter Stephen Farrell and
Afghan translator and reporter
Sultan Munadi and that the mis-
sion was authorized as the "best
chance of protecting life."
The newly formed Media
Club of Afghanistan - set up by
Afghan reporters who work with
international news outlets -
also condemned the Taliban for
abducting both journalists last
week in northern Afghanistan as
they investigated reports of civil-
ian deaths in a German-ordered
airstrike. In addition, both of
the main contenders in Afghani-
stan's disputed presidential elec-
tion called for investigations into
Munadi's death.
More than 50 Afghan report-
ers, wearing cameras and car-
rying notebooks, laid flowers
Thursday at the Kabul cemetery

grave of Munadi, 34, who died
in gunfire as British commandos
launched the rescue operation
in northern Kunduz province.
Farrell survived and was taken
away in a helicopter. One British
commando was also killed in the
raid.
In a statement, the journalists'
group said it held international
forces responsible for launch-
ing a military operation without
exhausting nonviolent channels.
It also said it was "inhumane" for
the British forces to rescue Farrell
and retrieve the body of the slain
British commando while leaving
behind Munadi's body.
The body was retrieved
Wednesday afternoon following
negotiations with local elders,
said Mohammad Omar, the Kun-
duz provincialgovernor. Munadi's
family buried him in the capital
late Wednesday.
Fazul Rahim, an Afghan pro-
ducer for CBS News who was
involved in drafting the journal-
ists' statement, said the troops'
leaving the body showed a lack of
respect.
"It shows a double standard
between a foreign life and an
Afghan life," he said.
Col. Wayne Shanks, a U.S. and
NATO spokesman, called the
deaths during the rescue opera-
tion "tragic" but said he did not
want to assign blame. "I don't
think that during the middle
of a firefight anyone can blame
someone for what they did or did
not do."

Number of uninsured
rises to 46.3 million
from 45.7 million
WASHINGTON (AP) - Demo-
cratic congressional leaders pre-
dicted passage of health care
legislation within a few months
despite undimmed Republican
opposition, claiming momentum
Thursday from President Barack
Obama's speech and renewed
commitment from lawmakers
fresh from a month of meetings
with constituents.
Increasingly, events in the Sen-
ate Finance Committee appeared
pivotal, precursor to likelyvotes in
both the House and the Senate by
early October. "I'm confident the
president will sign a bill this year,"
said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
of California.
While effusively praising
Obama's speech from the night
before, Pelosi and Senate Major-
ity Leader Harry Reid of Nevada

signaled separately the president
may not prevail in his call for leg-
islation that allows the federal
government to sell insurance in
competition with private industry.
Reid said that while he favors
a strong "public option," he could
be satisfied with establishment of
nonprofit cooperatives, along the
lines expected to be included in
the bill takingshape in the Finance
Committee.
Pelosi, who has long favored a
measure that allows the govern-
ment to sell insurance, passed up
a chance to say it was a nonnego-
tiable demand.
As long as legislation makes
quality health care more acces-
sible and affordable, "we will go
forward with that bill," she said.
Democrats are divided over
the public option in both hous-
es, liberals strongly in favor and
many moderates against it. Criti-
cally, though, it appears that any
chance for Republican support
would evaporate if legislation per-
mits immediate, direct competi-

tion between the government and
insurance industry.
Onthe morningafterhisspeech,
Obama renewed his campaign for
passage of his top domestic prior-
ity. Declaring that too many indi-
viduals are being denied coverage,
he said, "It is heartbreaking and
it is wrong and nobody should be
treated that way in the United
States of America. Nobody!"
He also cited new Census sta-
tistics showing that the number
of uninsured has risen to 46.3 mil-
lion from 45.7 million in 2007.
In general, the legislation would

r-

provide new protections to Ameri-
cans with insurance, help the
uninsured affordcoverage,require
most individuals to carry cover-
age and aim to slow the growth
of medical costs overall. The mea-
sure would be paid for through
reductions in planned Medicare
spending and tax increases.
Obama has said his approach
will not result in higher deficits,
but Congressional Budget Office
estimates dispute him.

New Michigan/USA Resident?
We help new residents file taxes.
free tax planning consultation
Renaissance Financial Group
320 N. Main, #104, Ann Arbor . ph. 734-994-1288
www.refinancial.com

GM rolls past one
million miles in
fuel cell vehicle

Su
fu

BU
eral A
miles
and c
every
pollut
them
Th
it pa
driver
rolet
5,000
more
25 mo
"T1
firstw
it's a
to us
our g
transl
Danie
cell c
reseai
in Ho
"TI
it like
cars,
fuel cE
ple w
Sul
becot
friend
powe
decad
gener
oxyge
emiss
"Y
exhau
comin
a cool
a mar
an Eq
New
driver
D.C.,
Th
any o
would
vehicl
But
for GP
fuel c
introd
hydro
and v
hydro
Daim

ipporters see the billion and plans to spend another
$700 million by 2011 for the com-
el cell becoming mercial production of fuel cell
vehicles, while Honda has leased a
mainstream small number of FCX Clarity vehi-
cles in California to assess hydro-
FFALO, N.Y. (AP) - Gen- gen's future.
Motors Co. is now 1 million Auto companies do not disclose
into its fuel cell experiment costs, but the vehicles are expen-
ompany officials say having sive to produce because most are
day people drive a test fleet of hand-built prototypes. Also, the
ion-free cars has convinced nation lacks a network of fueling
they are onthe right track. stations.
e automaker on Friday said Improving technology should
ssed the 1 million-miles- allow the next cars to go farther
n mark in its fuel cell Chev- than the current 168 miles per
Equinox vehicles, with about fill-up, O'Connell said. Until then,
people rotating in and outcof drivers have to keep a close eye on
than 100 cars over the past the fuel gauge to avoid driftingtoo
nths. far from one of about 70 fueling
hey'll tell you that after the stations in the United States.
eek, they prettymuchforget Test driver Laurie DeRoller
fuel cell car, which indicates learned that the hard way, stalling
that we have accomplished out five miles short of the filling
oal of making the fuel cell station in Honeoye Falls during
parent tothe consumer," said a weekend test drive in May. GM
A O'Connell, director of fuel sent a flatbed to take it away.
commercialization at GM's "It was a rural road, we're talk-
rch and development offices ing cars that are mostly farm-.
neoye Falls, near Rochester. land type vehicles and people are
hey get in the car and drive driving by, and here's myself on
they've always driven their the side of the road with the fuel
and that really tells me that cell car," said DeRoller, executive
ells are closer than most peo- director of the International Busi-
ould believe," he said. ness Council of Greater Rochester.
pporters see the fuel cell "Andpeople are slowingdownand
ing a mainstream, eco- looking," she laughed.
ly alternative to petroleum- The experience didn't change
red cars within the next her mind about wanting to own
e. Powered by electricity, one, she said, and she felt confident
ated by a reaction between a hydrogen highway will eventu-
n and hydrogen, the only ally exist. Refueling the cars with
ions are wisps of water vapor. compressed hydrogen takes about
ou put your hand over the five to seven minutes in a process
st pipe and the only thing similarto putting gasoline in a tra-
g out is water. That was such ditional car.
feeling," said Mike Schwabl, "I was the only parent allowed
keting executive who drove to idle my car in the pickup line at
uinox for 10days in western school," said Jeanine Behr-Getz, a
York earlier this year. Other Greenwich, Conn., author whom
rs tried cars in Washington, GM identified as having driven the
and southern California. millionth fuel cell mile.
e cars look and handle like "We've learned that the tech-
ther car, Schwabl said. "I nology can be accepted by the con-
) love to drive one of these sumer and that it is a viable means
les (permanently)." of powering our automobiles of
t numerous obstacles remain the future," O'Connell said of the
M and its competitors in the "Project Driveway" test.
ell race. Toyota Motor Corp. He said the program will con-
luced a car powered by tinue for five more months and
gen and electricity last year then the cars will be pulled off
will introduce an improved the road and upgraded with tech-
gen fuel cell vehicle in 2015. nology developed while they've
Jyr AG has spent nearly $2f been in use. {'

FALL 2009
UNIVERSITY
HOCKEY LEAGUE Ann Arbor Ice Cube
2121 Oak Valley Dr.
-10 games + playoffs only $2250 AnnA MI48103
-Registration deadline is Sept. 14th w/$750 Deposit (734)213-1600
($40 discount If all payments ar made in full and on time)
-Season runs Sept. 20th through Dec. 13th (including playoffs)NogamesOct. 18th
-Games are Sundays with start times between 9:30 pm & 11:35 pm
-All teams MUST have matching jerseys with no duplicate numbers.
(ifyourteam needs a reasonably priced setaof jerseyscontactShawn@ext243)
-All players must be USA Hockey Registered www.usahockeyregstration.com ($35 annualfee)
-Mandatory Managers Meeting Wednesday, September 14th @7 PM
SPACE IS LIMITED. REGISTER TODAY!!!
For more information or to register your team visit www.a2ce3.com
Join the
Ross School of Business Paid Subject Pool
Sign up to be notified of new surveys and experiments
$10 an hour
Who: Anyone 18 and over, staff, student or friend
(You do not need to be associated with the business school.)
When: throughout the year
How: Sign up to be notified of new experiments at:
umrsb.sona-systems.com
Sponsored by te University of Michigan Ross Shool of Business, IR-HUMOQ0l0lSO



4A - Friday, September 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

I I e firIC4,&pan:43a*lu

BELLA SHAH

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
A promise is a promise
Michigan legislature should protect state merit scholarship
Most children learn in preschool that it's important to
keep promises. But state legislators- who are poised to
cut the Michigan Promise Scholarship - seem to have
forgotten this lesson. Facing a $2.8 billion deficit in nextyear's bud-
get, the state Senate has voted to eliminate funding for the schol-
arship. What legislators don't understand is that many Michigan
students are counting on the scholarship to help pay for tuition
in the state. If members of Congress want to restore any measure
of faith in their ability to keep their promises - and in their sup-
posed commitment to higher education - they will restore fund-

ow T~ir eseM'iS
ta
{ i My fS eap la
Qt e ve
The fight ofjhis lfe
S enator Ted Kennedy's pass- reform as a rallying point for Demo- favor of public health insurance,
ing marks the end of an era in crats. But what they are conveniently needs to ask themselves two impor-
Washington. The man called ignoringis howKennedy'sownactions tant questions. Would Kennedy, if
the Liberal Lion completely undermine a premise that he were a private citizen of average
was one of the few is vital to the left's argument for a pub- income under Obama's public plan,
remaining links lic health care option. have been able to pursue these life-
to a time when Kennedy was diagnosed with extending procedures, given his age
the Kennedy fam- malignant glioma on May 20, 2008. and condition? Would Obama have
ily was American Only 50 percent of patients survive been willing to look Kennedy in the
royalty. Kenne- one year after diagnosis, and that eye and tell him he would be better
dy's public image drops to 25 percent after two years, off taking the painkiller in order to
was torn between according to the Washington Post save the system money?
glossy-eyed nos- CHRIS (Kennedy's Cancer is Highly Lethal,
talgi and the ROSLOWSKI 85/21/2008). Kennedy, a fighter all
recollection of an his life, decided against throwing in
unfortunate event the towel. Instead, he endured brain Kennedy didn't
on Chappaquid- surgery, intensive radiation and che-
dick Island, but nevertheless, Ken- motherapy treatments, procedures Want to just "take
nedy never allowed his detractors to which cost thousands of dollars. p i~ 1 e.
prevent him from fighting tooth and Luckily, Congress is famous for offer- the painkiller."
nail for his political causes. ing top notch health care. Members
In his historic career in Washing- have a choice of several private insur-
ton, health care was Kennedy's sig- ers and plans based on their health
nature issue. Writing for Newsweek needs. The Senator's dogged perse- As the days progress, liberal poli-
just a month before his passing, Ken- verance to extend his life by utiliz- ticians will use the memory of Ted
nedy called it "the cause of my life." ing all possible options is admirable, Kennedy to sell public health insur-
Now that the senator has died and but it is also a prime example of what ance. What they will universally
the public health insurance option is simply couldn't happen under Presi- omit, however, is how lucky the sena-
still lingering on the Congressional dent Barack Obama's proposed insur- tor was not to have been covered by
table, Democrats are using Kennedy ance plan. that plan. It should come as no sur-
as a symbol of reform. Robert Byrd, Obama has said again and again prise, though, that this discrepancy
the only living senator to serve lon- that a major factor behind the failure between rhetoric and action means
ger than Kennedy, wants to rename of the current health care system is nothing to Washington Democrats.
the health care bill in honor of the the execution of needless or futile They will continue to push a public
fallen lion. Last month, Speaker of medical procedures. Among these insurance plan that they wouldn't
the House Nancy Pelosi promised procedurs, Obama specifically men- be caught dead joining themselves.
reporters, "Ted Kennedy's dream tioned surgeries for terminally ill When Byrd and Pelosi invoke Ted
of quality health care for all Ameri- patients. During a primetime ABC Kennedy and his soaring rhetoric to
cans will be made real this year." broadcast from the White House this sell their plan, they should instead
Undoubtedly an effort to counteract summer, he said, "Maybe you're bet- look at audacious steps Kennedy took
the influence of town-hall protestors ter off not having the surgery, but to extend his life.
and appeal to the fiscally conserva- taking the painkiller." Obama's plan After all, Kennedy was a survivor.
tive "Blue Dog" Democrats, leaders aims to cut health care costs by elim- And despite Obama's attempts to con-
of Kennedy's party hope the sena- inating operations that have a very vince us all to "take the painkiller"
tor's death will rally support for the low chance of actually improving a instead of fighting back, surviving is
foundering bill. patient's life - just the kind of pro- still what health care is all about.
It makes sense that Byrd and Pelosi cedures that Senator Kennedy chose
would use the death of a famous sena- to undergo. - Chris Koslowski can be
tor who continually pushed for health Obama, and everyone who is in reached at cskoslow@umich.edu.
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers to be columnists
during the fall semester. Columnists write 750 words
on a topic of their choice every other week.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
Racism remains in A2

ing to the Promise Scholarship.
The Promise Scholarship is a state-
sponsored merit scholarship that awards
between $500 and $4,000 to students who
score well on the Michigan Merit Exam.
This semester, more than 5,000 University
students and 96,000 students across the
state were expected to receive aid from the
grant. But in June, the state Senate voted to
cut the scholarship's funding, which should
save the state $140 million. Thousands of
students have received notice from the
University that this semester's allotment of
aid won't be coming unless the legislature
changes its mind before approving the next
fiscal year's budget.
While the irony of having cut a tuition
aid program named the Promise Scholar-
ship is somewhat funny, the result is any-
thing but. For students who were counting
on the money, a college education became
much less affordable. And as tuition rates
have continued to skyrocket over the years,
dependence on financial aid is the situation
facing many Michigan students.
More than individual losses, cutting the
scholarship indicates that the legislature
doesn't understand the economic impor-
tance of affordable higher education in
Michigan's dismal economy. The future of
the state's economy lies in new industries
that rely heavily on innovation, science

and technology, but only a well-educated
workforce will be able to accommodate this
demand. Michigan's workforce will never
become educated if high school students
can't afford college tuition.
The University, at least, wants to help. It
has notified recipients that it will try to foot
the bill in the event that the cut is final, and
it won't charge late fees on tuition bills until
the fate of the scholarship has been decid-
ed. This is admirable, but it camouflages
the University's culpability in the problem.
Tuition at the University has increased 52.6
percent since 2002. While some of this can
be attributed to unsteady state funding, it is
ultimately the University's responsibility to
control its own costs.
Admittedly, the state will need to make
budget cuts, but funding for higher educa-
tion should not be the recipient of those
cuts. The state needs to protect scholar-
ships, not slash them. Instead, the state
should look at scaling back bloated pro-
grams like the corrections budget; which
accounts for more than 20 percent of the
general fund each year.
The state made a promise to scholarship
recipients. It even went so far as to name the
scholarship the "Promise." It can't break its
word now, with so many students depend-
ing on it.

JASON MAHAK-AN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
'IP mI t- ew 5Est-
4Z,
-a: -r T.... ' r1
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

4

U' smoking ban is a smart
policy for students' health
TO THE DAILY:
The two examples provided by Harsha Pan-
duranga in his column against the smoking ban
don't serve as exact analogies to the circum-
stances behind the move toward the smoking
ban (Keep smoking on campus, 09/10/2009).
The ban serves to prevent smoking in public
places, where people who choose not to smoke
maybe exposed to secondhand smoke. It doesn't
ban smoking in all places, nor does it take away
the right of smokers to chain smoke in the pri-
vacy of their homes.
In regards to Pandaranga's arguments, an
obese person eating cake doesn't adversely
affect his neighbor's health. And talking loudly
on a cell phone doesn't pose a health hazard to
the public.
The University's general smoking ban is
good for the public health. Smokers should be
given designated smoking areas where they can
smoke away from home. An example would be
smoking rooms with independent air systems,
like those found in Japan.
Eugene Kheng
Engineeringgraduate student
Viewpoint ignores value of
UMMA's modern design
TO THE DAILY:

collection, seeing as they couldn't even cor-
rectly identify the museum by its name, The
University of Michigan Museum of Art (Adding
color to UMMA, 9/9/09).
To his credit, Johnson does rightly point out
the addition lay in contrast to its surrounding,
but fails to recognize the intent of this move
beyond another University attempt to, "classify
whatever it likes as art."
Rather than being a bi-product of aberrant
modern design as suggested, the shell of the
building appropriately compliments its con-
tents. As the collection of the University grew
more expansive, it began to outgrow its place,
physically and ideologically. The architect's
design reflects this change by bridging more
modern work with the historical vocabulary of
the old building, and the location of work with-
in further observes this distinction. Though
more modern, it's not radically disparate from
other buildings in the area, like the Ross School
of Business.
Additionally, the recommendation that stu-
dent art should be used as a plug to fill John-
son's aesthetic void is insulting, not flattering.
Artists are not the purveyors of crafty, visu-
ally pleasing projects, devoid of context or sub-
stance to be used in a rotational playlist on the
side of a building.
The writer should recognize the building
itself is someone's work of art, and his sug-
gestion is analogous to holding a competition
to spray paint over one of the works inside he
surely holds equal disdain for.
Perhaps next time Johnson should view
UMMA in its entirety, rather than passing
judgment after simply walking through the
corridor the of museum.

Something is dying within the
black community. I first noticed
this after a summer trip to plan-
tation Georgia,
where many still
proudly wave the
Confederate flag
on their cars or on
flagstaffs in front
of their houses.
It's a place where
some black farm-
ers still look to the
floor from under- MATTHEW
neath straw hats HUNTER
when in the pres-
ence of whites. It's
a place that is still
heavily segregated and where blacks
keep civil rights complaints to a mini-
mum - which is, in a way, similar to
my experience of blacks in Michigan,
pervasive even here on campus. But
in Georgia, even in their quiescent
activism, blacks feel and acknowledge
their common hardship. It may be in
passing, but if you are black, you are
part of an extended family. But here,
unlike in Georgia, most blacks do not
acknowledge each other despite the,
fact that we, as African Americans,
share a common struggle.
The images of blacks in the 1960s
include Martin Luther King, the Mil-
lion Man March,RosaParks,boycotts,
Malcolm X and the Black Panthers.
We can remember and identify blacks
in the civil rights era who struggled
together against oppression. In the
1970s and '80s'- and here at the
University - images include Jesse
Jackson leading the Black Action
Movement in a successful strike for
civil rights demands, which included
10 percent African-American enroll-
ment. But even though the University
approved BAM's requests and aware-
ness increased, the University's Afri-
can-American student population,
almost forty years later, hovers near
six percent. Even after the statewide
abolition of affirmative action in 2006
and the atrocious state of minor-
ity enrollment, the University hasn't

seen rebellion or much active dis-
sent for civil rights justice since. The
progressive, protesting black campus
movements of the past are now noth-
ing but periodically active student
groups available for the six percent
to join so they can find other blacks. I
have yet to see recruitment efforts by
any activist civil rights groups in my
time at the University.
There are a number of factors
silencing the movement. One preva-
lent explanation claims that there
is less to fight for because racial
inequalities in education are on a
sharp decline or non-existent, espe-
cially if one considers the election of
Obama, the first black U.S. president.
But despite the University's stated
commitment to equality and diver-
sity, racial disparities among the top
schools in the nation are vast. Jacques
Steinberg, in a 2009 New York Times
article, mentions the University of
Michigan among schools with the
highest graduation rates at 88 per-
cent. But the University's African
American graduation rates between
1995 and 2004 have been closer to
Eastern Michigan University's over-
all average of 39 percent, among the
worst in the nation. In that time, the
African American graduation rates
range from 36 to 52 percent, which
have improved over time but still do
not compare with whites.
The stagnant nature of black civil
rights activism could also be a result
of poor understanding of civil rights
injustices. Activism of the past was a
response to overt racism and bigotry.
But today, racial appeals are often
disguised as class appeals and rac-
ism itself is inconspicuous. In a way,
it is easier to perceive and then fight
against the injustice in egregious
cases like racial lynchings than it is to
fight for equal opportunity in educa-
tion. It's simply harder to understand
that blacks are disadvantaged from
birth than it is to understand that
brutal violence is an injustice.
Changing racial policy requires
bureaucratic negotiations, law-

yers and supportive constituents.
The complex nature of this process
can make fighting for racial policy
changes obscure and confusing. 4t
it is possible for change to occur.
When, for example, the majority of
our nation supports a black president,
and his racial agenda includes having
a diverse administration and nomi-
nating the first Latina Supreme Court
justice, some change is inevitable.
But it's important to address racial
policy locally since there is a danger-
ous trend to equate racial change and
exceptional minority success cases
with racial justice. Obama's presiden-
cy will not single-handedly change
social injustices like that of the edu-
cational disparities between blacks
and whites.
The struggle for
racial equality is far
from over.
What we need first is a greater
acceptance that the civil rights era
is not over. Student organizations -
white and black - should publicly
challenge racial injustices through
protests, forums and student publica-
tions. We must begin with the truth
that blacks are an oppressed group of
people and must constantly consider
their race and its function in society.
Students should hold the University
responsible to their commitment to
racial justice, which should in turn
encourage all students to engage in
racial awareness and activism. We
can then better understand and estab-
lish that sense of a common struggle
and sense of brother and sisterhood
that still remains between blacks in
rural Georgia, where it is essential
for survival.
- Matthew Hunter can be
reached at majam@umich.edu.

I


A recent viewpoint by Eliot Johnson about
UMMA made me wonder if either Johnson or Matt Hallock
the Daily's editors even bothered to visit the Art £t Design senior

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com h

Friday, September 11, 2009 - 5A

Reaching for higher ground

By TIMOTHY RABB
DailyArts Writer
Here's the formula: A heart-
rending tragedy precedes an
unlikely friend-
ship. The friend- ***
ship is then
followedbymore Adam
tragedy and At the
finally, a pain- Atche
fully sappy and Michigan
ambiguous reso- Fax Searchlight
lution. Sound
familiar? It should, but don't
write this film off just yet. There
is a hopeful charm that carries
"Adam" to a higher ground than
that occupied by most romantic
comedies.
"Adam" follows a socially
defunct young man of the same
name (Hugh Dancy, "Confessions
of a Shopaholic") as he navigates
the twists and turns inherent in
daily life. The difficulty of these
obstacles, however, is exacerbat-
ed by his case of high-functioning
autism. Adam is a self-described
"Aspie" (a slang term for a per-
son with Asperger Syndrome)
who develops an attachment to
his beautiful, well-mannered
neighbor Beth (Rose Byrne, "28
Weeks Later"). Naturally, Adam's
shortcomings cause tension that
builds and eventually, in light of
several haphazard events, comes

to a he
All
"Adam
ingnes
lished1
unable
connec
audien
movie
hangs
betwe
work c
film I
genres
only se
tunate
rom-cc
Ar
t
USI
Hos
film's
ject m
ing. A
emotic
grasp,
him w
ality t
in ma
Dancy
of Ada

ad. executed. The character's dis-
in all, the mediocrity of plays of emotional volatility are
" is the result of its unwill- sincere enough to demand the
s to push any pre-estab- same empathy from the audience
boundaries. The film seems that Adam lacks.
to establish the vital social According to the film, the token
ction between screen and trait of a person with Asperger's
ce that every well-crafted is uncompromising truthfulness.
should possess. It also A key part of the film balances
in a precarious balance on this quality in Adam and its
en an enlightening, relevant moral implications. When Beth's
of art and another romance father is accused of adultery and
knockoff. The exhausted serious crimes against his busi-
conventions used in"Adam" ness clients, the hypocrisy of his
erve to highlight the unfor- subsequent criticisms of Adam is
condition of contemporary made remarkably evident. This
oms. should cause audiences to ques-
tion whether unwavering honesty
is really an undesirable and imma-
ture trait, or if it indicates Adam's
Sunexpected superior sense of principle. There
S the are moments in the movie when
W ist on t one wonders whether Adam's
ual rorn-corn. avoidance of needless small talk
and superficial social situations
is indeed a disability, or perhaps a
blessing in disguise.
wever monotonous the The movie's tendency to shy
structure may be, the sub- away from a firm stance on
atter is unique and engag- Asperger's syndrome is irksome.
dam's distinctly childlike It seems inconsequential to pro-
snal outbursts and brilliant duce a film in which a group's
of complex subjects endow shared traits are described in
ith an endearing person- full detail but where no opinion
hat wins Beth's heart and, is brought forward as to the true
ny cases, viewers' hearts. state of Adam's normalcy. "Adam"
's accurate representation is a work with a strong subject but
m's condition is brilliantly too quiet a voice.

This is what Jay-Z's dentist sees.

As cocky as ever

Jay
'BI
wit]

Coc
irritati
being a
a requi
relevar
no one
ceited
Carter
The
claime
est rap
and "
back in
Jordan
Since t
comeb
a marr
Beyonc
Jay-
a stat:
domin
laratio
beefs (
politic
his ca
Curren
(Death
even p
of rece
Is Bori
The
all-wh
ments
image
about
"D.O.A
with i
and a

-Z completes his chorus featuring Kanye West. Jay's
aggressive lyrics, "This is anti-
lueprint' trilogy auto-tune / death of the ringtone /
this ain't for iTunes / this ain't for
i a passing effort sing-a-longs," are instantly ironic
since West's entire last album 808s
By DAVID RIVA and Heartbreak was dominated
Daily FineArts Editor by the vocal-altering demon that
Hova forcefully condemns. It's an
ky people are almost always announcement that the whole rap
ng. In the rap world, though, world can't avoid. He's forcing both
rrogant and overconfident is artists and listeners to take a side.
rement for Should rappers be able to sing? One
nce. And *** spin of this convincing track and
does con- you'd be hard pressed to disagree
like Shawn Jay-Z with Jay.
. he .u In addition to this attempt to
self-pro- The Bluepnni 3 place rappers' focus on spitting
d "Great- Rock Nation rhymes rather than singing, Jigga's
per alive" also trying to set a permanent per-
Motherfuckin' greatest" is sonal legacy by comparing himself
full swing after his Michael to Frank Sinatra on both "Empire
i-like retirement in 2003. State of Mind" and "D.O.A." Yes,
then it has been non stop: a the assertion might be ridiculous,
ack album, a soundtrack and but basing his claim on the overall
iage to long-time girlfriend strength of catalogue, career lon-
c6 Knowles. gevity, deep-seated connection to
Z uses The Blueprint 3 as New York and careful collaboration
ement record to voice his selections, he certainly has a point.
eering yet compelling dec- Collaborations on The Blueprint
ns and opinions on celebrity 3 remain spot-on and range from
"What We Talkin' About"), the familiar (Kanye West, Phar-
s ("Off That"), the state of rell) to the obscure (Luke Steele of
reer ("Young Forever") and Empire of the Sun). It also includes
it musical trends ("D.O.A. a sprinkling of fresh faces (Drake,
of Auto-Tune)"). The album Kid Cudi). Jay has an endless pool
rovides a condensed history of artists at his disposal and has
'nt hip-hop emcees ("A Star honed his skill to choose the per-
n" ). fect person for any given track over
album's cover depicts an the course of his 11 albums.
ite collage of musical instru- "Empire State of Mind" is the
and equipment. It's an record's best example of this
that seems to scream "It's all impeccable ability to insert the
the music." The first single right artist to complete the overall
." confirms this sentiment feel of a song. The ever-so-classy
its penetrating guitar loop Alicia Keys lends her soulful pipes
wailing clarinet during the to this ballad about Hova's home-

town. The tasteful piano jingle and
grooving drumbeat propels the
track to a level that begs to be put in
the conversation of New York City
mainstays alongside Billy Joel and,
yes, Sinatra himself.
But despite The Blueprint 3's
many high points, it still features
a few duds over the course of its 15
songs.
Timbaland's unwieldy beats
and Beyonca's strangely compla-
cent chorus weighs down "Venus
vs. Mars," a love song about how
opposites attract. Unfortunately,
the magic that sparked unforget-
table efforts like "Crazy in Love" or
"'03 Bonnie and Clyde" hasn't been
rekindled.
Dragging tempo and muddy pro-
duction plague "Haters," which
marks West's only misstep on a
record chock full of his vocal and
production contributions. It's also
uncharacteristic for Jay to address
his dissenters in such a halfheart-
ed manner and the song seems to
underscore his endearing cocki-
ness.
Across the board, though, Jigga's
confidence is on par with previous
efforts as he decides "I don't run
rap no more / I run the map" and
concludes he's the "Only rapper to
rewrite history without a pen," in
his signature passive-yet-in-com-
mand voice.
Above all, The Blueprint 3 is an
announcement that Jay-Z is back
for good. "Young Forever" plays
off one of his many nicknames
(Young, in this case) and acts as a
closing statement. And with a line
like "I ain't waiting for closure / I
will never forfeit," it does seems
like Jay-Z will be making music for
a while.

"I have something to tell you: I fucked your brother while you were away."

Just another album for Yo La Tengo

By JEFF SANFORD
DailyArts Writer
For a band as creatively daring
as Yo La Tengo, it's a bit surprising
to see how little
thegroup'ssound
has changed
from album to Yo La Tengo
album. Despite
recording rel- Popular Songs
evant music for Matador
more than two
decades (and in
the fickle world of indie rock, that
makes the group as much a revered
dinosaur as, well, Dinosaur Jr.), Yo
La Tengo's career has been pretty
much the same since 1986.
History lesson: Yo La Tengo
released its debut Ride the Tiger in
1986. It was a critically acclaimed,
Velvet Underground-influenced
album that balanced hazy pop
daydreams with grimy garage
rock.
Now replace "Ride the Tiger"
and "1986" in the preceding para-
graph with any one of the band's
subsequent albums and its corre-
sponding date. What you've got is
a Mad Lib that accurately (if not
dismissively) describes the band's
r 20-plus-year career.
Popular Songs, Tengo's latest,
still sounds like the Velvet Under-
ground, still has a mixed bag of sun
and skuzz, and, in overwhelming
likelihood, will garner near-uni-
versal critical praise.
Normally, such career stagnancy
is a bad thing. But there's a reason
why Yo La Tengo has endured and
impressed for so long. What makes
Ira Kaplan and company so special
is that they don't need a career to
reshape and revitalize their sound

- all they need is an album.
Like most other Yo La Tengo
albums, Popular Songs is so eclec-
tic that the band seems to com-
plete a full career arc in the span
of 12 songs. The group slips natu-
rally from the melodic proto-punk
of "Nothing to Hide" to the cocky
funk swagger of "Periodically
Double or Triple" to the too-long,
meandering epics of "The Fire-
side" and "And the GlitterIs Gone."
And all of this (mostly) goes over
remarkably well, with the band
connecting the dots of disparate
genres with consistently solid
grooves and an unfailing sense of
melody.
Still, like just about all Yo La
Tengo affairs, Popular Songs con-
tains its quirks and surprises that
make it distinguishable from the
rest of the catalog. Most notably,
the use of Phil Spector-like string
'Popular Songs'
follows a
familiar path.
arrangements lends the album a
bright, pop gleam that was largely
missing from 2006's unfortunately
titled I Am Not Afraid of You and
I Will Beat Your Ass. At least on
the first nine tracks, this unusual
brightness makes Yo La Tengo the
most accessible they've been since
"Autumn Sweater."
The album's three closers are
all around or above the 10-minute
mark. It's a defiant move, and from
a band as fiercely independent as

Yo La Tengo, it's not surprising.
But that doesn't necessarily make
it work. The first of the three,
"More Stars Than There Are in
Heaven," is a slow-burn that plods
along, content in its own aimless-
ness. By the time the sparse and
unmoving"The Fireside" ends and
the feedback-laden "And the Glit-
ter Is Gone" begins, patience has
long been exhausted. And there
are still 15 minutes left.
Doubtless, Yo La Tengo is delib-
erately testing its listeners with
this epic row. But it's an upsetting
end to a largely admirable album
that, for Yo La Tengo fans, will
seem pleasantly familiar.
i -


6A- Friday, September 11, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

RE A LT Y

ADVERTISE YOUR STUDENT
GROUP FORALL TO SEE
in the
CAMPUS INVOLVEMENT PAGE
within the Michigan Daily
Deadline: Sept 17th
Published: Sept 24th
Call 734-764-0557
to place your ad today!
parking
S2 S
CHEAP AVAIL PARKING at
DPHIE. $200/semester. 216-469-8936.
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
060
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylat lfumich.edu
www.nancytat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR 2010
http://www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.

ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
SPARKLING, BRAND NEW 2 bdrm
condo. 275 Briarcrest. Terms neg.
Imtediate avail. $900//mo.
734-904-3274 or trumford@aol.com
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1& 2mhdrm.,odern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Na Sept. rent,

All 2BR Apts
ON SALE for$1 195
All Single Rooms
NOW $598
Any Floor. Any View. Don't Delay.
Immediate Availability.
Roommate Matching.
University Call Us Today!
Tower 734-761-2680
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.cotn
2BR REDUCED TO $1195! Move in
today! Don't miss out on this ridicu-
lous opportunity! Get your furnished
2BR for CHEAP! Immediate Availabil-
ity. 734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.coms
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help fhd a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
http://www.varsitymanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampLsSMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
FREE 1ST MO. rent, GREAT loc near
Athletic Campus, 4-6 Bdrms/Bsmt/Lg
Parking Area. seltilIl fcomcast.net

Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
~mePms 'Pzz.s s/oe
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
APARTMENTS. 1 & 2 bdrm. Utilities
included. Free prkg. Near AATA down-
town and campus. Old west side. No
smoking, no pets. 734-426-7821.
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
http://vw.varsitymanagement.cotv
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to down-
town. Wsher/dryer in unit, $1000/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
DRASTIC PRICE REDUCTION
$2200/mo for six br, 2 bath, furnished
house. Rms avail w/ whole house privi-
leges, $350-$450. LR, DR, kitch, cen-
tral air, carpeting, on-site parking.
Near business school. 926 Packard. No
Pets. 248-227-9210.
DUPLEX APARTMENT FOR Rent -
Single bedroom apartment on quiet resi-
dential street in Burns Park area. In-
cludes ceramic bath, full kitchen, laun-
dry and off-street parking. $600 per
month. Call 734-769-2855.
FINAL DISCOUNTED RATES. 2BR
apartments at $1195. Single bedrooms
(in a 2BR apt) at $598. Any floor. Any
view. Immediate Availability.
www.universitytowers-mi.com
Daily Classifieds:
serving the UoM
yoU'Ve community for
been hundreds upon
Served hundreds or so
years.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptiotns, feacures, and
prices.
GRAD S-TUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included.
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for details (734) 668-
1100 or
http://www.varsitytmanagement.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.ticlcotvrealty.com or
734-662-5511 for appoinmen
LARGE 4 BDRM House, FREE Park-
ing, Next to Athletic Campus, On a
quiet street. 248-488-4379.


GO.
B3LUE!o
Newman O'Malley & Epstein
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 8 Prefix with 41 Stampeding 53 Seat of
1 Hardlyemulated sphere group Montana's Silver
the 16-Across 9 Car bomb? 42 Zooks lead-in? Bow County
10 Skeleton's place? 10 Key in which 45 "Little Women" 54 Foreword
16 Proverbial worm "Chopsticks" is author 55 Like a choice
catcher usually played 46 Fishing nets between evils
17 Fountain treat 11 Gap 47 Thurman of "Pulp 58 Bavarian ttle
18 Notqa'sie 12 Opening hymn 4 iction" 19 SPCA par: Abbr.
Barcelonas host? words 48 One in an 80 Harem roam
19 Ovoid tree nut 13 Coffeecake international 62 Elec.
20 La Scala highlight topping septet text-reading
21 Swearfalsely, 14 Darkening time in 50 Makes amends method
with "oneself" verse 51 Shirk one's duty, 63 Charge
23 Olymp 15 NFL scres in a big way 64 N-R connectors
pettection 22 Yank's Ion NW RT REIU UZE
24 Four-handed 24 Dealer's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
piano piece by a adversary.
French emperor? 25 Start a po A S S A D T B S P A K E
29Chic 26Spitting sound,in S T O L I R O L O O M I T
31 Support provider? comics T A L O N EXAM COL T
32Wrongthig to do 27C owrk'shme I B 0U G H T S T 0C K I N A
33 Conductor 28 'We know drama" H05E N05
Toscanini station
36 Impudent 30 Franks'conquest ZEPHY R A R A L L B S
37 Movie gigolo 34ER personnel E L L E D A T E I N O U T
Bigalows truggling 35 Giant among B L A N K E T F A C T O R Y
wih deht? Giants R I N S E R A I L W I S E
42 -.E. Lee, e.g. 36 Fancy-chmancy A S K MA A S O C T E T S
43 Pats away 37 "Whip If hand
44 Batting stat 38 Inundated R P M T O O N
45 Sch. with a 39 Tennis great Lew B U T I T S O O N F O L D E D
Phoenixcampus who won three of U T E S T O R T T O R M E
480Dolt thefour majors n SA E E I EM L
52 Multitaskin, but 85u SAT E E Z 10 E M A I L
ustbarely? 40-ackawanna's T H E N L E A P S A B L E
56 Versatile vehicle, lake xwordedltor@aol.com 09/10/09
for short _
57 "The Three 1 3 4 5 s 8 1 I8 s 11I l12 1 31 1s

KEEP UP WITH busy 10-year-old:
chauffeur to ballet, homework, crafts,
reading, Burns Park near campus.
Drive our car or yours. Thursdays 3:30-
after dinner; occasional evenings.
Experience, reliability, and laughter
essential. $12/hr. Email credentials to
clbrown@umich.edu

i

HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
lttp://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeo@iserv.net
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
1 7 6
4 7
9 4 2
2 5 1 7
help wanted
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $30 /day poten-
tial, AGE 18+ OK. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EASY CASH while tailgating
and having fun! Students and groups
needed to sell during Notre Dame
weekend. No upfront costs! For details
email: james cmuzzallgraphics.com or
call James at 517-204-2792.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefsud.usvich.edu or 763.4400.
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS
$14.25 ase-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice. conditions apply, no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.cov
LOOKING FOR ENGINEERING
student to work for local medical de-
vice company. Mechanical, electrome-
chanical or biomedical concentrations
preferred. Knowledge of plastic parts
helpful. 3D drawing required. Nominal
starting wage with potential for raise
and future employment. Please send re-
suave and cover letter to:
josnoeasbcglobal.net
NEED A JOB? My garden needs to e
put to ed for the winter. Trimming &
painting. Must have experience. If you
are confident, reliable and like to work
fax resume to 734-663-7553.
NOW ACCEPTING
Applications
for Chef lostess, Bartender and
Waitress positions.
Apply at playhouse
#1 it Adult Fun
13201 Middlebelt Road
Between Northline and Eureka
Romulus, Mi 48174
734-941-3144
NURSING/GRAD STUDENTS FOR
home-based personal care. Part time, 2
hrs./day. Pay neg. Call 734-904-3274
or trumford@aol.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TENANT COUNSELOR WANTED.
Part time, 8-12 hr/wk, $12/hr, advise
tenants of basic rights and information.
Send resumes to psherlIssem.org
chi|d care
095
AFTER SCHOOL CHILD care
3:45-6:30 Mon.-Thur. Pick asp 8 YR.
old from school; Drive to piano/swim
classes; Homework, supervision.
Contact Eve at losmanctaumich.edu or
734-327-0659.
CHILD-CARE, PART Time: looking
for after school care for kids, ages 10
and 12. Car and good driving record a
must. $15/hour. Hours generally 3:30 -
6, but later start and finish times some
days too. Please contact Bridget:
bridgetm@umich.edu

LOOKING FOR NANNY
Executive couple seeks "Marry Pop-
pins" to care for children in our home.
3 boys, I girl. Ages 7-13. Live out posi-
tion requires, travel between AA &
Birmngham: Also willing to travel
with family as req. Occasionally stay at
residence while parents are away. Must
be dedicated to professional level of
service. Must be a college or graduate
student of U of M Ann Arhor. Pee-
ferted degree in Education. Work 5
days a week as follows:
Mon-Thurs 3-1Opm, Fri 4-11pm.
Occasionally weekends as req. Able to
start October 15th. Pay doe, $15-20/hr.
Benefits negotiable. Req to pass back-
ground check. Send resume to
sdodson@thdg.com
LOVING, MATURE, RELIABLE
baby-sitter needed to care for our 2 yr.
old daughter and occasionally our 4
and 10 year-olds. Flexible schedule 10-
15 hrs/week. Mornings and afternoons.
$10/hr. Non-smoker, own trans., ref a
must. 761-8844 gabgillard@yahoo.com
MOTHER'S HELPER NEEDED.
Send resume to carrie.sayer@gmail.com
PARENTS OF 2YR old'girl seek expe-
rienced hebrew or spanish speaking
babysitter/ nanny, 2-3 days/ week. Near
central campus. jessarusit@umich.edu
PART TIME BABYSITTER needed
to look after a 7 year old boy and 3
year old girl. Help needed in picking
them up from Emerson and Daycroft
schools and engaging them in activities
in the afternoon/evening. Please con-
tact Sonali at sonali.jv@gmail.com
SEEKING BABYSITTER/NANNY
FOR 2 yr. old girl. 8 hrs/day, 2-3
days/wk. Burns Park, 1 mile from cen-
tral campus. richardandeve@gmail.com
UM LAW PROFESSOR seeks respon-
sible student for part-time care for our
9 & 12 year olds. After school help a
few days a week and occasional
evenings. Car req, close to campus.
Ref. needed. French speaker a plus.
Call Steve or Nancy at 734-761-7752.
BABYSITTER NEEDED - Tues. &
Thur., 3:30 - 5:30, occasional weekend
evenings if desired, for 10 and 7 yr
aIds. Own transportation necessary.
Email jennabacolor@gmail.com

Get 'em while they're freshmen.
They won't be ripe for long.

4

I m m
INTERESTED IN ORG. Studies and
Advertising? Join MAOS: Michigan
Advertising and Org. Studies.
E-mail: arikalfi@umich.edu

4

WebsiteS
1123 Ai
NEW SOCIAL NETWORK with
AMAZING Features--Get This...Self
destruct E-mail, Cool Games & Last
but not Least, earn a few dollars doing
nothing but what you d6already.
http://www.ps10 .info

For Saturday, Sept. 12, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
Resist the urge to tell a family member
how to shape up or improve him- or her-
self. (Nobody likes to hear this.) On the
other hand, you might attract somebody
who wants to do this to you. Run away!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Avoid arguments or intense discus-
sions with relatives and siblings. In par-
ticular stay away from touchy subects.
People are in a very "know it all" mood
today.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
It's easy to feel obsessed or compul-
sive about something today; therefore,
be careful how you handle your money.
Be especially careful when shopping!
Resist spontaneous urges.
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
Feelings of jealousy could mar a
pleasant day with others today. Don'tget
hung up on this. There is always some-
one who is richer yunger, taller, more
exciting, whatever. That's life.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Shake off any feelings of dissatisfac-
tion or discontentment you have today.
Instead, alphabetize your blessings. The
fact that you're reading this column
shows you're advantaged, globally-
speaking.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Don't try to convince a friend about
something, and don't let anybody try to
do thisto you. People are inclined to be
vehement and obsessed about things
today.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a poor day to go against people
in authority. Just let things go by and
bring up your concerns another day.

(You won't get anywhere today.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Today is not the day for intense dis-
cussions about politics, religion or racial
issues. People will be too emotional and
not reasonable or logical.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Choose another day for important dis-
cussions about shared property, inheri-
tances or how to divide anything. Today,
people are compulsive and illogical (and
very emotional)!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Just coast easy while talking to friends
and partners today. Avoid important top-
ics. Jealousy is likely, and emotional out-
bursts are not uncommon.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Even though you have good ideas
about how to introduce reforms or
improvements at work, today is not the
day to do this. People will resist your
suggestions.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 toMarch 20)
Parents should be patient and tolerant
with children today. Romantic partners
must likewise be patient with each other.
People are too emotional, tense and jeal-
ous. Yikes!
YOU BORN TODAY You have class.
Whatever you do, you do with your own
particular style. You have a sense of
humor that others appreciate. But more
than that, your courage and fearlessness
earn their admiration even more so. You
have high personal morals you live by.
You're often deeply submerged in your
work. A change likely will take place
this year, one as significant as something
around 2001.
Birthdate ofh George Chuvalo, boxer:
Henry Hudson, explorer; Jennifer
Hudson, singer/actress.

4

1

4

I
I

c 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

Josh and Pldcido "
58 Picked hair
styles, hriefly 4
59 Not strict aout 21
as crime ' a
61 Restaurant 23 24 25 26
special, and a
hintto this 29 30
puzzle's theme
65 "Swan Lake" 23 3'
heroine
66 Delicate spring 37 as
roll wrapping
67 Future officers 42 s
88 Hue reerences
may be available, 44 45 as46 47
in a rasum 2
DOWN
1 It has 100 seats 57
2 Hardy partner as661
3 Furnsource
4 Arraignment
response
5Nurse war gad as6
6 Deht-heavycorp.
deal
7 Give a hand By D2naddor
(c)2009 Trbune MediSertve, Inat.

read the michigan
daily horoscope
LG RM. SOUTH University. Short
walk to campus and CCRB. Prkg. 5
wonderful roommates.
NEED A ROOMMATE? We've got
you covered. U-Towers offers Room-
mate Matching. We compare the year
in school, area of study, interests &
hobbies. Get your room for $598. Call
today 734-761-2681.
ROOMS AVAILABLE NOW. Fur-
nished or un. AC, Laundry, Parking
available. Across from or next to
CCRB. I block to business school and
central campus. $439-$529, u included.
7344752577. baltzellproperties.net

4

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one businessday prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for thefirst issue and $1.75 per line for each additional
consecutiveissue.
" Frequencyand Bulk contracts are available- contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, Anerican Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one of our Account Executives

1 4

09/11/09

J



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 11, 2009 - 7A

J'U scientists
find 'fat gene'

President Barack Obama walks toward Air Force One at Andrews Air Force Base, Md. on Wednesday.
0
Eight years after 9-11, Obama
has th bullhorn on terrorism

Finding also has
implications for
viral infections
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
The quest to find a pharmaceu-
tical cure for obesity may have just
taken one big step forward.
Researchers at the University's
Life Sciences Institute, under
Director Dr. Alan Saltiel, recently
discovered thatsuppressing a par-
ticular gene called IKKE in mice
conveyed resistance to the effects
of a high-fat diet.
IKKE, also found in humans,
encodes for a protein kinase,
which turns on and off other pro-
teins in a cascade pathway. The
kinase is ultimately responsible
for regulatingthe metabolic genes
that can cause obesity. The study
found that deletion of IKKE - a
so-called "obesogene" - and its
associated protein kinase boosted
metabolism in mice.
According to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention,
an estimated 34 percent of U.S.
adults aged 20 and older were
obese in 2008, with 32 states hav-
ing a prevalence greater than or
equal to 25 percent.
Fed a fat-enriched diet for
three months over the course of
the study, mice without IKKE
gained little weight compared
to those with IKKE, which were
later declared obese. Prelimi-
nary differences in the low-grade
inflammatory responses, which
characterize obesity, were seen as
soon as six weeks into the study.
Unlike previous genetic mark-
ers linked to obesity, IKKE has
thus far been the first to largely
negate the effects of diet.
Dr. Shian-Huey Chiang, an assis-
tant research scientist in the lab
and an author of the study, said she
initially planned to study insulin

signaling in context of diabetes.
Chiang said she worked with
the family of genes collectively
known as IKK and soughtto study
its role inglucoseuptake and insu-
lin resistance.
"In the past 10 years, lots of
studies have shown that inflam-
mation is associated with dia-
betes," she said. "People used to
think that obesity just jumped
to diabetes, but they didn't know
what happened in between."
What Chiang and her col-
leagues found instead was a defin-
itive link between one particular
gene from the IKK family and
obesity in mice.
"We were expecting them to
gain weight like the control mice
and see the progression of insu-
lin sensitivity, but instead we saw
little change in body weight,"
Chiang said. "For them, it was like
having McDonald's everyday for
three months."
Chiang said the serendipitous
finding will no doubt spark fur-
ther research into the powers of
the protein kinase.
Previous studies have shown
that mice with disabled IKKE
were also more susceptible to
viral infection, illustrating the
gene's potential role in mounting
an immune response.
"To stay lean, this is a bad gene
to have, but for protection against
viral infection it's great," Chiang
said.
The complex pathway under-
lying the gene's expression, con-
sequently, is still a deterrent for
pharmaceutical companies to
develop IKKE protein kinase
inhibitors, she said.
However, pharmaceutical
development of kinase inhibitors
is already under way and a drug
against obesity may be viable,
Chiang said.
"Gene suppression could help
with energy expenditure, but
staying on a healthy diet and
exercising is still going to be key,"
Chiang said.

On anniversary,
Obama finds himself
0 at helm of two wars
WASHINGTON (AP) - On Sept.
11, 2001, Barack Obama was driving
to a state legislative hearing in Chi-
cago when he heard the first sketchy
reports of a plane hitting the World
Trade Center on his car radio. The
40-year-old state senator spent the
afternoon in his law office watching
"nightmare images" of destruction
and grief unfold on TV.
Within days, he'd issued a state-
ment about what the nation should
do next.
Beyond the immediate needs to
improve security and dismantle
"organizations of destruction,"
Obama wrote, lay the more difficult
job of "understanding the sources
of such madness." He wrote of "a
fundamental absence of empathy on
the part of the attackers," of "embit-
tered children" around the world, of
the seeds of discontent sown in pov-
erty, ignorance and despair.
r The nuanced musings of an
obscure state senator, Obama's
statement never even made the big
Chicago dailies.
Americans were listeninginstead

to President George W. Bush, shout-
ing into a bullhorn at Ground Zero.
To weary rescue workers and a sor-
rowing nation, Bush declared: "The
world hears you, and the people
who knocked these buildings down
will hear all of us soon."
Eight years later, Obama has the
bullhorn. And the way forward in
the fight against terrorism is any-
thing but clear.
Obama approaches his first 9-11
anniversary as president saddled
with two wars that followed the
2001 terrorist attacks, and confront-
ed at everyturnby difficult leftovers
from Bush's response to them.
Public sentiment toward U.S.
involvement in Afghanistan is sour-
ing as combatcdeaths grow and ques-
tions persist about flawed Afghan
elections. The drawdown of U.S.
troops in Iraq is moving forward,
but at a slower pace than envisioned
by candidate Obama. Defense Sec-
retary Robert Gates speaks of "a
certain war-weariness on the part
of the American people."
There are sticky questions about
what parts of Bush's anti-terrorism
program to keep, what parts to lose,
what parts to investigate.
Obama's goal of shutting the
detention facility at Guantanamo
Bay in Cuba within a year is bogged

down in case-by-case complexities.
The phrase "war on terror" has
fallen out of favor: Obama avoids
usingit,he says,to keep fromoffend-
ing Muslims.
Keeping Americans safe, the
president says, is "the first thing I
think about when I wake up in the
morning; it's the last thing that I
think about when I go to sleep at
night."
Bush used to say the same thing.
He pledged to "rid the world of
evil," and framed the worst act of
terrorism on American soil with a
black-and-white clarity that belied
the complex challenges that lay
ahead.
Obama, more discriminating in
his speech, has struggled to craft a
clear message as he faces difficult
decisions about how best to pro-
tect Americans and amid growing
doubts about his ability to do so.
An AP-GfK poll released this
week finds the president's approval
ratings for his handling of Afghani-
stan and Iraq slipping, and declin-
ing approval, as well, for his efforts
to combat terrorism.
On Friday's 9-11 anniversary,
Obama will visit the Pentagon
memorial to those who died there
in the 2001 attacks, and meet with
loved ones of the dead. He issued a

proclamation Thursday honoring
those who died and urging Ameri-
cans to mark the anniversary with
acts of community service. He also
pledged to "apprehend all those
who perpetrated these heinous
crimes, seek justice for those who
were killed, and defend against all
threats to our national security."
The president's challenge, says
former Bush foreign policy adviser
Juan Zarate, is to "find a balance
where he's clearly marking 9-11 as
a key historic moment from which
his current policies flow, but also
not allowing it to define him," as the
attacks defined Bush's presidency.
"The Bush administration was
often viewed as too firmly planting
its policies in 9-it and in the war on
terror," said Zarate, now an adviser
at the Center forStrategic and Inter-
national Studies.
In the years since 2001, Ameri-
cans' fears about terrorism gradu-
ally have diminished as people have
moved on with their lives.
They worry more now about the
economy, health care and unem-
ployment, polls show, and they
elected a new president with high
hopes that he would act decisively
on those issues and with underly-
ing expectations that he would keep
them safe.

GM to offer money-
bakgarne

Chief Justice Roberts surprises
Law School students, crashes class

Plan intended to
dispel worries about
company's new cars
General Motors is hoping to
jump-start its revival by guaran-
teeing car buyers that if they don't
like their new Chevrolet, GMAC,
Buick or Cadillac, they have 60
days to bring it back for a full
refund.
The marketing effort that
starts Monday is called "May the
Best Car Win" and aims to win
back customers leery of GM since
it filed for bankruptcy protection
earlier this year. The nation's larg-
est automaker needs to improve
sales so it can repay billions in
government loans and stay in
business.
New GM Chairman Edward
Whitacre Jr. will appear in the
initial burst of ads, telling view-
ers in his folksy, Texas accent

that he too had doubts about the
company when he joined this
summer. Now, he likes the cars
he's seen, and consumers should
too. If they don't, they can have
their money back.
Running through Nov. 30, Gen-
eral Motors Co. will allow buy-
ers of new GM vehicles to return
them, no questions asked, for a
full refund within 31 to 60 days.
The vehicles must not have
more than 4,000 miles on them
and the drivers must be current
on their payments.
The offer applies to the Detroit
company's four remaining brands:
Chevrolet, GMAC, Buick and
Cadillac. The Pontiac brand,
which GM is phasing out, is not
eligible. Leased vehicles are also
ineligible.
The campaign will also pit
GM's four brands directly against
foreign competitors, focusing on
quality, performance, fuel econo-
my and design.

From Page 1A
late' and then you sit down in your
regular ol' property class, trying
to finish the last few pages of last
night's reading when you realize
that there are a lot of alumni hang-
ing around your class for some
reason - a lot of stern looking
alumni," she wrote in an e-mail.
"Then when Dean Caminker
r announces the Supreme Court
Chief Justice Roberts to every-
one," she continued, "you sud-
denly realize that stern looking
alumni is the Secret Service and
you think 'Damn, it rocks to be at
Michigan."'
While in the class, Roberts
invited students to ask questions
and engaged them in conversa-
tion - and even cold-called on one
BIRTHRIGHT
From Page 1A
have had in the past for our winter
trips."
In the past, the milestone jour-
ney, free to those of Jewish descent,
was grouped with other schools
across the country to cut costs.
But this year, Hillel will be team-
ing with IsraelExperts to fund and
strengthen the program - even
providing a tour bus that is exclu-
sively available to Wolverines.
Sheren says the new partner is
the major reason for the private
bus.
"IsraelExperts is an excellent
trip provider," she said. "They are
able to offer a really great itiner-
ary that's filled with both fun and
learning which is what we try to
balance."

student..
"Without any warning, he
walked over (to) the professor's
lectern, found the class seating
chart, and announced, 'And we'll
start with a question from,' and
proceeded to cold-call a student
for the first question," Peterson
wrote.
"The entire room erupted with
laughter as Roberts played on the
law school pedagogical tradition,"
he added.
Law School student Alex Sarch
got to ask Roberts a question.
"I was lucky enough to get the
chance to ask the chief justice a
question during the class today,"
he wrote in an e-mail. "His answer
was humorous and insightful, and
I felt very privileged to be there for
his visit."
A few unlucky students, who

arrived late to class, had a very dif-
ferent experience - being locked
out after Roberts's security detail
cordoned off the room.
In response to the students who
were locked out, Caminker sent an
e-mail apologizing for the lockout
and for telling the students in the
hallway to be quiet.
"I'm very sorry the marshals
couldn't let them in once we start-
ed (which I didn't know would
happen), and in particular I'm
sorry that I felt the need to ask
them to quiet down when they
were already missing out - which
probably added insult to injury,"
he wrote.
He added: "I hope they can all
attend the Q&A at Hill. And of
course they still have a good story
to tell, even if it's not quite the
same one."

Roberts will be in Ann Arbor for
the next couple of days, holding a
question-and-answer session at
Hill Auditorium this morning and
speaking at the groundbreaking of
the Law School's academic build-
ing this afternoon.
Roberts, who - according to the
Winter 2008-2009 Notre Dame
Magazine is a die-hard Notre
Dame fan - is also scheduled to
attend the University football game
against Notre Dame tomorrow.
He attended last year's Michigan
versus Notre Dame game in South
Bend, Ind., accordingto the article.
Weiner said he especially
enjoyed Roberts's response to a
first-year law student who asked
what advice the chief justice would
have for law school students.
Weiner wrote, "He said, 'It's
too late.'"



With IsraelExperts as a new
partner, a private bus with 40
seats during the winter is now
available for Michigan students,
Sheren said.
"We think there will be more
applicants due to the amount of
waitlisted students from this past
summer," she said.
Lauren Schuchart, engagement
associate at the Penn State Hillel,
said the size of a school could make
a big difference in the amount its
respective Birthright trips receive.
"It's very lucky," she said, refer-
ring to the University of Michigan's
Hillel. "For many schools, they get
less than a full bus and go on the
trip with other campuses. We have
had to waitlist more people than we
have had to in the past."
In State College, Penn.,
Schuchart said she has noticed
that the number of available spots

is falling short of the high number
of applicants.
"For our trips, we have received
less seats in the past than the
amount of applicants we have,"
Schuchart said. "It's in the num-
bers. It is unfortunate, but at the
same time, we are still sending stu-
dents to Israel."
A similar story to the one here is
playing out in East Lansing, where
Michigan State University Hil-
lel Director Cindy Hughey says its
Israel trip has not been affected
much by the economic crisis either.
Hughey said their program is
expecting the same number of stu-
dents and the same amount of fund-
ing as in previous years.
"I am not anticipating any
change and there have been no cuts
in funding," says Hughey. "We are
doing quite wellwiththe number of
applicants that we are getting."

The National Birthright Organi-
zationisreportingthatittoohasnot
suffered economically during this
past year. In fact, it has seen even
more funding than before, Deborah
Camiel of the National Birthright
Organization said.
"We weren't really touched by
Madoff, because we weren't invest-
ed," Camiel said.
"If anything, we are in the mid-
dle of a new campaign, which is a
national campaign. We are trying
to spread out ina financial way and
have a bigger base," she continued.
"We have exceeded the total num-
ber of gifts that we had last year. I
think we might be one of the few
Jewish organizations to increase
our number of donors."
According to Sheren, IsraelEx-
pertsisalsoworkingwiththeUniver-
sity of Florida, Sun Coast Campuses
and Wesleyan University.

RUSH
From Page 1A
part in formal recruitment than
we did at this time last year," she
wrote.
Although recruitment started
during the first school week, IFC
president Ari Parritz wrote in an
e-mail that he feels that rush will
be even stronger this year than it
has been in thepast.
"IFC will award eight $1,000
scholarships to new members this
year and we have encouraged our
chapters to act similarly in defray-
ing the costs of joining the Greek
community," he wrote. "We held
an extremely successful recruit-
ment training event last week
and we intend to capitalize on our
chapters' energy and enthusiasm
for fall recruitment."
While IFC and Panhel each
hold a council-wide recruitment,
the other two Greek councils
on campus - the Multicultural
Greek Council and the National
Pan-Hellenic Council - handle
the process differently.
Carmen Loo, MGC vice presi-
dent, wrote in an e-mail that
instead of holding a mass recruit-
ment meeting and having all the
potential recruits rush together,
each individual MGC organi-
zation takes charge of its own
recruitment process.
"The organizations create their
own schedules in which they put

on various events for rushees to
come and get to know more about
their specific organization and
members," she wrote. "These
events range from socials, work-
shops, food-incorporated get-
togethers, mixers, sports events,
informational meetings, etc."
She said the groups hold sepa-
rate events so that recruits can
get a sense of the 19 house's indi-
vidual character.
The recruitment process for
most MGC organizations starts
during the first two weeks of
school, with the process length
ranging from two weeks to
around a month, depending on
the organization.
"MGC will look over each
organization's events, making
sure things are appropriate and
everything runs smoothly, but
it is essentially each individual
chapter's job to recruit for itself
and organize its own rush pro-
cess," she wrote.
The National Pan-Hellenic
Council's rush process works
similarly to that of MGC.
David Middleton, National Pan-
Hellenic Council vice president,
said that each organization has
its own informational meetings,
but there is also an Open House
in October. Middleton said the
National Pan-Hellenic Council's
recruitment process starts later
in the year because each chapter
schedules rush in conjunction
with their national chapter.

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@michigandaily @michdailynews @michdailysports
F \ '4


4

8A - Friday, September 11, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Heard about the open tryouts?
he Wolverines will hold their fourth open tryout of the Rich Rodriguez era on Monday,
Sept.14 at 4:00 p.m. at Schembechler Hall.
In order to participate in the tryout, interested athletes must pre-register for tryouts at
Schembechler Hall between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. today. Athletes must bring proof of a physi-
cal within the past year and a copy of their unofficial transcript, which can be a printout from
Wolverine Access. Cleats, tennis shoes and athletic apparel are required for the tryout.
At Monday's tryout, athletes will compete in agility drills, position-specific drills, ball drills for
skill positions, and one-on-one drills for wide receivers/defensive backs and offensive linemen/
defensive linemen.
During Rodriguez's first open tryout, in February 2008, 65 athletes tried out for the team and
five made the 2008 fall roster. Last September, 28 athletes tried out for the team and three made
the roster, and in February 2009,26 students tried out and four are currently on the fall roster. ,
An example of a successful walk-on from the open tryouts to date can be found in redshirt
ARIEL BN/Daly freshman cornerback Tony Anderson, who made the team after Rodriguez's February 2008 try-
Redshirfreshman Tony Anderson has been one of the most impressive walk-ons since n Rich Rodriguez began the program. out and earned a varsity letter last season. He played on the punt return and special teams units.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their:
best to predict what happens Michael Ruth Courtney Andy
Eisenstein Lincoln Ratkowiak Reid
in the 2009 football season.

Picker:
Ingall

Michigan(+3) vs. No. 18Notre Dame Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan
No.1 Florida (-36) vs. Troy Florida Troy Florida Florida Florida
No. 2 Texas (-33.5) at Wyoming Texas Wyoming Texas Texas Wyoming
No.3 USC (-6.5) at No. 8 Ohio State Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal
No. 4Alabama (-33.5) vs. FloridaIntl Florida Intl Florida Intl Florida Intl Alabama Alabama
No. 5 Oklahoma St. (-15) vs. Houston Oklahoma State Oklahoma State Oklahoma State Oklahoma State Oklahoma State
No. 7 Penn State (-28.5) vs. Syracuse Syracuse Syracuse Syracuse Penn State Syracuse
No. 9 BYU (-17.5) at Tulane BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU
No.10 California (NS) vs. E. Washington California California California California California
No.11 LSU (-14.5)vs. Vanderbilt LSU LSU LSU LSU LSU
No.12 Boise St. (-37) vs. Miami (Ohio) Miami (Ohio) Boise State Miami (Ohio) Boise State Miami (Ohio)
No.13 Oklahoma (NS) vs. Idaho St Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma
No.14 Virginia Tech (-19) vs. Marshall Virginia Tech Virginia Tech Virginia Tech Marshall Virginia Tsch
No.15 Ga. Tech. (-5) vs Clemson Ga. Tech Ga. Tech. Ga. Tech Ga. Tech Ga. Tech
No.16 Texas Christian (-11)1at Virginia Texas Christian Texas Christian Texas Christian Texas Christian Texas Christian
No.17 Utah (-13.5) at San Jose St. Utah Utah San Jose St. Utah Utah
No.19 UNC (-4) at Connecticut North Carolina North Carolina Connecticut North Carolina Connecticut
No. 21 Georgia (-7) vs. South Carolina South Carolina Georgia Georgia Georgia Georgia
No. 22 Nebraska (-22.5) vs. Arkansas St. Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Arkansan St.
No. 23 Cincinnati (NS) vs. SE Missouri Cincinnati Cincinnati Cincinnati Cincinnati Cincinnati
No. 24 Kansas (-13) at UTEP Kansas UTEP Kansas Kansas UTEP
No. 25 Missouri (-20) vs. Bowling Green Missouri Bowling Green Missouri Missouri Bowling Green
Last Week 18-5-0 14-7-0 13-8-0 11-10-0 14-7-0
To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail incoInr@umchedu. If you're chosen and an beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.
a t WE PLAYED OUT THE MICHIGAN-NOTRE
DAME GAME ON NCAA '10. SEE WHO WON AT
WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM/THE GAME.
(Yes, there is a space between 'the' and 'game' in our blog URL That isn't a typo.)
41 r Y
S 85 y rt

I
I
I

4:
.y

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 11, 2009 - 9A

Trojans travel to the Horseshoe in weekend's biggest matchup

By RYAN KARTJE and
ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writers
NO.3 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
TROJANS AT NO.8 OHIO STATE
BUCKEYES
One year ago, then-freshman
quarterback Terrelle Pryor, the
nation's hottest recruit, was watch-
ing from the sideline at The Coli-
seum in Los Angeles in one of the
year's most anticipated matchups.
And after starter Todd Boeck-
man didn't provide much spark,
coach Jim Tressel decided to throw
the highly touted freshman into the
mix. What Tressel didn't know was
that he was feeding Pryor to the
dogs as the Buckeyes were over-
whelmed by the Trojans, allow-
ing35unanswered pointsto Mark
Sanchez and Co. and managing a
field goal in garbage time.
One year later, Sanchez is a
member of the New York Jets and
Southern Cal coach Pete Carroll
will have to showcase his own
superstar freshman, Matt Bark-
ley. To even things out, this year's
game is in Columbus.
Barkley, the nation's top-rat-
ed recruit in the Class of 2009,
showed last week that he was at
least capable of winning football
games in a 56-3 blowout of San
Jose State. But Barkley never
threw a pass over 15 yards against
the Spartans, something that he
won't get away with in Columbus
on Saturday.
So in a battle of the past two
years' most-hyped recruits, this
game could come down to mental

toughness - something the Buck-
eyes have been struggling with on
the national stage since their 2007
BCS Championship loss to Florida.
The media hasn't spared Ohio State
any criticism, and the Buckeyes are
well aware.
"Every big game, we end up blow-
ing it," left tackle Alex Boone said
after the loss last season.
But in Columbus, the pressure
will be on Barkley to prove that his
freshman performance won't end
like Pryor's.
Rating5 out of5footballs; this one
might be an instant classic.
- t -

UCLA BRUINS AT TENNESSEE
VOLUNTEERS
It was only a year ago when this
matchup between two traditional
powers represented a vital non-
conference clash on the national
landscape.
But as Saturday creeps closer,
both football programs find them-
selves in undesirable territory after
disastrous sub-.500 2008 seasons
by each squad.
After losing to the Bruins last
season, the Volunteers took blow
after blow in the SEC gauntlet, fin-
ishing 5-7 overall and ending coach
Phil Fulmer's career.
Enter Lane Kiffin, the former

coach of the Oakland Raiders.
Bringing a whirlwind of contro-
versy to Knoxville, Tenn., Kiffin
made headlines during the offsea-
son for highly publicized feuds with
former employer Al Davis and Flori-
da coach Urban Meyer.
Bruins' second-year coach Rick
Neuheisel finds himself in a similar
situation in his search to right the
ship at his alma mater.
In the very least, this matchup
provides a breath of fresh air on a
college football schedule diluted
with cupcakes.
Rating:3 out ofSfootballs.

CENTRAL MICHIGAN CHIPPEWAS
AT MICHIGAN STATE SPARTANS
Saturday's game in Spartan Sta-
dium will feature multiple quar-
terback competitions.
MSU coach Mark Dantonio con-
tinues to foster a spirit of compe-
tition at quarterback following
an impressive outing by both sig-
nal-callers against FCS opponent
Montana State. Kirk Cousins, who
got the start last week, split snaps
with Oklahoma transfer Keith
Nichol.
But neither quarterback will be
the best QB on the field Saturday.
Quarterback Dan LeFevour, one
of the nation's most underrated

players, looks to rebound from
an opening week loss at Arizona.
LeFevour and the Chippewas have
had success in the past against the
Big Ten, nearly knocking off Pur-
due in the Motor City Bowl two
years ago.
As Dantonio continues to lay a
strong foundation of competent
football in East Lansing, avoid-
ing an upset against the Chips
will help solidify a rising MSU
football program and make them
feel confident going into Big Ten
season.
Rating:3 out of5footballs.


F REE WATER
I R L DELIVERY
Get Wet @ h2goblue.com
contact US: info@h2goblue.com

i

S U O K U


4

10A - Friday, September 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michieandailyvcom

4

4

4

4

4

4

4
4

wrw' .?tXdt",a'fn'}, , . 'x.4 4=. .. Nfk}. 'u ' :T4S" M1ffi# - .. "_ . , u"fiiN' S . # R'N ."rk, ' ' M57SY.k ,. ,t{ k.?'f..;'a ,,'~..C..o ,r n ;n r, "'.{9k:NN',x . ,. N .kc '.!err:Y NtS: fi'k . ,'S't .[Yk' u' G'.' #1t 4: t{ '.y.. r. S .u'?ii'7rr r u ...

@ omcast,
dream big.

I

4

3 f

t I


 r
-J
-J
fr
0I

0
I~?I
N
U
z
0
3

,-
.
,
:.
w
r

. :
d
.#4 .


w w w


w qw

T

...qw-

_S

7r

Iqlp",

T

T

T

28 > Football Saturday - September 12, 2009

Setme S1,20 .Fobl

WELCOME TO
THE SEASON
Before practice last week, Bon Jovi's "Living on a Prayer"
came on over the loudspeaker. Freshman running back
Vincent Smith and a few others trotting out to the field
began belting out the tune, laughing and joking around.
It was just more proof that this team is already having
more fun than during last season's 3-9 debacle.
Whether that will result in a better outcome remains
to be seen. Even though the team keeps playing down
the fact that Saturday's game is a "measuring stick", the
Wolverines' performance against Notre Dame could
potentially set the tone for the rest of the season.
Michael Eisenstein - Ruth Lincoln
Courtney Ratkowiak - Andy Reid
HIGHLIGHTS
Last year, the student section's attempt at a blue block'M' at
the Wisconsin game was a rousing success. The 'M' is back for
the Notre Dame game - find out how it's done.
Martavious Odoms, Brandin Hawthorne and Vincent
Smith grew up in a small sugarcane town named
Pahokee. This is their story.

2009 MICHIGAN FOOTBALL SEASON
Sept. 5 Western Michigan: Before this win, it had been a while since Michigan
fans had anything to cheer about durisg the opening weekend.
Sept.12 Notre Dame: Yeah, we've all heard that Jimmy Clausen looks like an emu. And
weyse seen the ewbarrassing photos of him in that Speedo. And the ones of him at a Beer
Olympics. And the ones of his ridiculous Prom limo, Wait, where were we going with this?
Sept.19 Eastern Michigan: We expect former Michigan defensive coordinator Ron English, now
Eastern Michigan's head coach, to get a warm cheer from Wolverine fans. The Eagles, not so much.
Sept. 26 Indiana: Indiana's new-look Pistol Offense was only slightly more exciting than watching
paint dry. The Hoosiers looked limp against Eastern Kentucky.
Oct. 3 at Michigan State: The East Lansing Meijer is selling "Beat Michigan ... Again" T-shirts.
The Spartans are really milking a win over the worst Michigan team in the program's history.
Oct.10 at Iowa: The Hawkeyes needed to block not one but two field goals in the game's final
seven seconds to squeak byFCS team Northern Iowa. Way to make the Big Ten look good, guys.
Oct.17 Delaware State: As if Michigan students needed more motivation to skip this game,
the Athletic Department scheduled it during Fall Break. But after Wolverine losses to Appalachian
State and Toledo, here's to hoping third time's the easy win.
Oct. 24 Penn State: The Nittany Lions looked like the team to beat in the Big Ten after Week One.
W hnwhetherthatwi w ue when Michigan meets up with them halfway throughtheconference
Wseason remains totbe seen.
I S Oct.31 at Illinois: (Insert lame Juice-related joke here). Also, the Fighting Illini completely choked
against rival Missouri last week.
Nov. 7 Purdue: The Boilermakers ended Michigan's bowl hopes last season by handing the
Wolverines their seventh loss. Michigan will probably be looking for payback when Purdue visits
the Big House.
Nov.14at Wisconsin: Nothing beats a late fall afternoon in Camp Randall, especially when the
students start singing "Build Me Up, Buttercup."

PAHOKEE
From page 5B
The way the linebacker was
treated by Michigan bolstered the
bond between a college football
powerhouse and a small town in
Florida that, even after all it has
gotten from football, would never
take the sport for granted.
But that relationship had to start
somewhere.
THE PAHOKEE-MICHIGAN
CONNECTION began, in many
ways, almost 15 years ago, when
a young Martavious Odoms dis-
played all of the characteristics
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez,
who first started recruiting the
area while still at West Virginia,
looks for in a slot receiver.
As a kid, Odoms was, and still
is, small for his age, shifty, strong
and fast.
"I used to tell him, 'You know
no one can outrun you in Paho-
kee,' " said his mother, Gloria.
That's quite a statement when
you're in Muck City, where the
kids have a well-documented tra-
dition of chasing and catching rab-
bits with their bare hands.
To this day, the sophomore wide
receiver says people underesti-
mate him because of his 5-foot-9
frame, but when he was little, his
grade-school friends Jay, Keevie
and Shorty Redhead just made
fun of him.
After a while, like any kid,
Odoms had enough of the jeers
about his height. So one day, he
and Gloria devised a plan.
"I used to tell him, 'Look here.
When they're talking, you shut
them up. When they're talking,
this is all you got to do: you hit
them first, and I'll be home,' "
Gloria said. "I said, 'You know
they can't catch you. Run. All you
gotta do is make it here, and I'll be
in this house.' "
The next time someone made
fun of him, Odoms jumped up,
hit the kid square in the nose and
sprinted home, panting on the safe
side of the Odoms' front door.
Other than punching his boyhood
friends - and even that was at the
request of his mother - Odoms
was a "good, humble child ... like
a little man," according to Gloria.
But even the best can't always
resist temptation. Gloria remem-
bers three straight nights during
Odoms's high school years when
the receiver broke curfew. Gloria
was afraid that her son might be
hanging around the wrong people
in The Projects, a neighborhood
right around the corner from his
home.
So Gloria called Coach James,
who came over immediately.
"Rick James, he don't play,"

Gloria said. "I was like,t Oh, Lord.
Don't talk to my. boy that rough,'
but I left and went out the house.
But after that, he didn't break cur-
few no more. No more."
Added Odoms: "Coach J, all
the coaches pretty much love us
like we're their own child, so they
take care of us a little bit and try
to, like, make sure we're doing the
right thing."
When his senior year rolled
around, schools around the coun-
try took note of Odoms's stellar
work ethic and behavior - but
what they really craved was his
4.5 40-yard time. Unfortunately
for him, Odoms's dream school,
Miami, thought that speed could
be used on the track.
"We thought they insulted him
when they walked into our office
with a damn track scholarship for
Martavious," James said. "And the
reason I say that is because they
had already offered a lot of receiv-
ers from Miami-Northwestern
(High School) that I know can't
hold Martavious's jockstrap."
Michigan saw his football tal-
ent, and the tight-knit Pahokee
football community respected the
school for giving him a chance.
But it's about more than just
football. When Rodriguez came
to Pahokee to visit with fresh-
man Vincent Smith's family, the
running back's cousin, Tyrone,
stopped by the house to meet the
coach.
His son'Tyrone Jr., tagged along,
and when Rodriguez met him, he
ruffled Tyrone Jr.'s hair a little,
smiled and joked, "Is he the next
Vincent Smith? We might as well
give him a scholarship already."
It was a small gesture, but in
Pahokee - where the high school
principal banned Tennessee coach
Lane Kiffin from school grounds
after Kiffin made some unkind
comments about the town - but
it means a lot to see a coach who
genuinely cares about the kids.
The bond is there - and it
seems to be there to stay. When
the Odoms family visited last Sat-
urday for the home opener against
Western Michigan, friends and
Pahokee football fans gave them
money so they could bring back
Michigan T-shirts and hats.
"I can almost all but guaran-
tee you that Michigan is going
to land some more of our kids,"
James said. "Martavious has set
the tone. Michigan, on the other
hand, has given them a justified
chance to get out there and play,
to turn that program around."
IT'S A WARM SPRING
AFTERNOON in the local Rec
Center, and students, most of
them athletes, are already start-
ing to trickle in. By 8 p.m., the
brand-new computer lab will be

full to capacity; the library, which
currently holds just a few shelves
of books, will house kids studying
for finals; and a group of Pahokee
football players will pack into a
small recording studio to cut rap
songs to be used as study guides.
The gym will be full of kids who
would rather play basketball or lift
weights in the infamous "House
of Pain" with the solid Rec Center
support staff than go outdoors.
But for now, the building is
dominated by a group of senior
citizens, almost all of whom have
grandsons playing either college
or professional football, enjoy-
ing a game of Bingo in the back
room. Here on the shore of Lake
Okeechobee, a winning card in
the ladies' game seems more out-
of-the-ordinary than a full-ride
scholarship to play football.
James says hello to all the
women. This is his haven - after
nearly 15 years, he can't count
the number of kids he has helped
escape the streets of Palm Beach
County. He realizes that he can't
help them all, but, in spite of
everything surrounding him, he
remains optimistic about the city's
future.
In fact, Pahokee's success on
the football field in the last 10
years seems to be having a positive
effect on the youth community.
"The kids that don't play football
now see the kids that play football
and are getting the opportunity to
get out of Pahokee," James said.
"It's like a domino effect. Kids
that don't play football are trying
to get their education so they can
get up outta here."
He even says one of the kids
he helped tutor at the Rec Center

Pahokee high schoolers lift weights and study at the local Rec Center.

has earned a full-ride scholarship
to the University of Florida this
year - not for athletics, but for
academics.
But as much pride as James
takes in the Rec Center's edu-
cational guidance programs, his
heart will always be in Pahokee
football. Last January, Pahokee
native Janoris Jenkins, then a
starting freshman cornerback at
Florida, invited James to the BCS
National Championship game, all
expenses paid.
For Jenkins, one of Odoms's
best friends growing up, and every
other player that's ever donned the
blue-and-red, it's not about foot-
ball. It's about life, death and suit-
ing up for a town that doesn't have
anything but football to cling to.
But mostly, it's about earning
a future - at Michigan or other-
wise.
"Sitting there with Janoris's
dad and mom and first cousin,
watching him come out of that

tunnel, hearing them introduce
him, seeing him play on that level,
I got teary-eyed," James said. "It
brings back memories of all the
hard work, just trying to make
sure these kids stay in line, to the
point where they put themselves in
position to be on that grand stage.
And to see one of the ones that I
coached from a baby, to see him
in this grand finale, it just - tears
of joy. I mean, National Champi-
onship. Janoris Jenkins, from the
good ole town of Pahokee."
223 North Main Street
Ann Arbor, Michigan
665-5340

The last time the Michigan-Notre Dame rivalry had this much
hype, the Wolverines walked away with an easy 38-0 victory.
What will happen this year?

Nov. 21 Ohio State: According to Buckeyes quarterback Terrelle Pryor, "Everyone
does ... kills people, murders people, steals from you, steals from me." YIKES.

----I

Who Owns Your Genes?
Intellectual Property, Innovation Policy, and the Future of Genetic Medicine
Date: Monday, September 14 Location: Forum Hall, 4th floor of Palmer Commons
Time: 4:00-5:30, with a panelist and student reception immediately following
e For more event information, please visit www.eisi.umich.edu
"The Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications (ELSI) of Personal Genomics" is a yearlong, university-wide series that seeks
to engage U-M faculty and students in consideration of ELSI issues raised by the rapid expansion of genomic services and
research. Our kickoff event addresses the controversy over patents on the breast and ovarian cancer (BRCA) genes,
which led to a current ACLU class-action lawsuit against the US Patent and Trademark Office and Myriad Genetics.
Panelists include:
Shobita Parthasarathy, U-M Assistant Professor at the School of Public Policy, author of "Building Genetic Medicine:
Breast Cancer, Technology, and the Comparative Politics of Health Care;"
Sofia Merajver, U-M Professor of Internal Medicine, Director of the Breast and Ovarian Cancer Risk and Evaluation
Program; and
Rebecca Eisenberg, U-M Professor at the Law School, author and lecturer about the role of intellectual property in
biopharmaceutical research

I

FOLLOW US ON
TWITTER!
@michdailysports
*AS FINEST& FASTEST SINCE 973J
ST -SHI RT PRINTERY
-Expert Screenprinting
M Embroidery
TEES, SWEATS, SHORTS
CAPS, TOTES, APRONS
Muti-Color We Turn
Printing SYo5'ur-Sketeh
Our Speciality Into T-Shirt Art
EMAIL DESIGN FOR PROMPT QUOTE
- CATALOGUE, &EMAILIJNKAT
d "
& MIM.FROMCAMPUS
1002 PONTIAC TR 994-1367
.. u.E. E u.


' v -7- .
Weekdays 7am-3pm
Sundays 8am-3pm


w

i

.
IRW

,w qw lw- llm qw mr - - - qp - - qw

" wFotbal

MICHIGAN DEPTH CHART
VS.
NOTRE DAME

Student section block'M' will return Saturday

OFFENSE
1. Forcier, Tate Freshman
2. Robinson, Denard Freshman

QB

R1.Brown, Carlos Senior
.Shaw, Michael Sophomore
FB 1. Moundros, Marl Redshirt junior
SKevin Senior
W R Mathews, Greg Senior
2.SouDarryl Sophomore.
'v'\ . Stonum, Darryl Sophomore
2.Savoy, LaTerryal Redshirt sophomore
S O 1 . Odoms, Martavious Sophomore
I 2.Grady, Kelvin Redshirt Sophomore
Tj 1. Koger, Kevin Sophomore
IT 2 Webb,Martell Junior
LT Ortmann, Mark Redshirt senior
2Dorrestein, Perry Redshirt junior
LG 1. Schilling, Steve Redshirt junior
2. Mealer, Elliot Redshirt freshman
C 1. Molk, David Redshirt sophomore
2. Khoury, Rocko Redshirt freshman
G 1 Moosman, David Redshirt senior
2 Ferrara, John Redshirt junior
R T 1. Huyge, Mark Redshirt sophomore
2. Omameh, Patrick Sophomore

DEFENSE
rE 1.Graham, Brandon Senior
D L E 2. Heininger, Will Redshirt sophomore
T 1.Van Bergen, Ryan Redshirt sophomore
LD T 2. Banks, Greg Junior
N T 1. Martin, Mike Sophomore
[j 2.SagesseRenaldo Junior
1. Roh, Craig Freshman
0 2. Herron, Brandon Redshirt sophomore
LB 1. Ezeh, Obi Redshirt junior
2. Fitzgerald, J.B. Sophomore
W 1. Mouton, Jonas Redshirt junior
S 2.Leach, Kevin Redshirt sophomore
B 1. Brown, Stevie Senior
2. Simmons, Floyd Redshirt freshman
1. Warren, Donovan Junior
2. Turner, J.T. Freshman
SS iWoolfolk, Troy Junior
S 1. k r2. Van Slyke, Jared Redshirt sophomore
F 1. Williams, Mike Redshirt sophomore
2. Stewart, Charles Fifth-year senior
RC 1. Cissoko, Boubacar Sophomore
RC 2. Floyd, J.T. Redshirt freshman

AP PHC
Notre Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen will try to redeem himself
this year in the Big House after his dismal freshman performance.
Rivalry, hype return
to Michigan Stadium

By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
Over the last two seasons, there
have been a few tweaks to the Mich-
igan Stadium game-day experience,
most of which have been met with
various levels of resistance.
Many Michigan football tradi-
tionalists hated the piped-in music
played during last Saturday's win
over Western Michigan, and we all
know the fiasco surrounding the
construction of the giant luxury
boxes, most of which has subsided
by now.
But there's one up-and-coming
tradition that came without contro-
versy. During last year's epic 27-25
comeback win over Wisconsin, stu-
dents wore T-shirts to create a giant,
blue block 'M' amidst the rolling
maize sea of the student section. No
one had ever seen anything like it in
Michigan Stadiumhistory, and from
the aerial view of the ABC cameras,
it was a strikingsite on national TV.
And if you're in the Big House on
Saturday for the Notre Dame game,
you'll see that 'M' tower over the
playing field during a September
home game for the second straight
year. ,
"I think was a success the first
time, and it was also the second big-
gest comeback in Michigan football
history - so who knows? I guess

Last September, in the weeks
leading up to the Wisconsin game,
you were more likely to see Chin-
sky and his friends sprinting across
the stadium than varsity athletes
using the massive structure for stair
training.
On the tunnel side of the Big
House, there's a giant yellow 'M'
painted in the bleachers. Chinsky
and his Engineering buddies ran
from the student section to the 'M'
to meticulously measure it, scale it
down and use it as ameasuringstick
for their eventual'M.'
The bowl, which steepens as you
get farther from the field, presented
logistical issues as well, and the
whole time, he wanted to make sure
everything was just right.
"We knew we wanted the block
'M,' not just an M," Chinsky said.
"At Michigan, we don't have just an
M."
In the future, the responsibilities
of the stunt will be passed onto the
newly created Athletic Relations
sect of the Michigan Student Assem-
bly, of which Chinsky is currently
the chair. That way, it could become
a big tradition in the Big House.
"So 25 years from now, when I'm
sitting home on my couch one Sat-
urday in September or October, I'll
see a full maize stadium, including
the alumni, and also the Block 'M,"'
Chinsky said.

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan-Notre Dame
rivalry goes back to 1887, but look-
ing at only the past two games is
enough to set the scene for Satur-
day.
The hype surrounding this
year's game is comparable to that
in 2007, the last time the Fighting
Irish visited Michigan Stadium.
Both teams were 0-2 and desper-
ately needed a win to avoid disas-
ter. Now, the teams are both 1-0-
and desperate for a win to gain
credibility.
Leading up to both games, the
Wolverines were thinking big and
talking boldly.
"We're going to win next week.
There's nts question in my mind.
I guarantee we win next week,"
Mike Hart said a week before the
2007 game.
"I can't wait - we owe them.
We owe them," said freshman run-
ning back Michael Shaw moments
after the end of last week's West-
ern Michigan game, channeling a
bit of Hart's earnestness .
The key for Notre Dame as it
comes to Michigan Stadium for
Saturday's 3:30 p.m. game will
be shutting down the Michigan
defense and shutting up the home
crowd early, something the Irish
couldn't do when they were shel-
lacked 38-0 two years ago. The
Wolverines dominated, demoral-
izing the Irish by forcing turn-
overs on three of their first five
drives.
"It was one of those situations
where you go in there not know-
ing how things are going to go for
us or go for them, because they
were struggling a little bit at the
time when we went up there ...
and the fans were ready to turn on
them, and the fans had a big party
that day at our expense," said
Weis during his weekly press con-

ference Thursday. "And I didn't
enjoy it very much."
Weis also hasn't enjoyed his
recent on-the-field history with
first-year Michigan defensive
coordinator Greg Robinson. Last
year, days after Robinson had
been fired from his head coach-
ing job at Syracuse, he took his
2-8 team to South Bend and beat
Notre Dame 24-23 on a last-sec-
ond touchdown. That dropped
Notre Dame's record to 6-5, leav-
ing the team panicking with bowl
contention on the line in its last
game.
Notre Dame coach Charlie
Weis said that he's preparing for
the Robinson brand of defense
by watching both Syracuse and
Michigan tape to prepare for Sat-
urday's game. Robinson's game
plan will be centered around con-
taining a much-improved Jimmy
Clausen and star wide receivers
Golden Tate and Michael Floyd.
"You know they're going to take
some shots deep ball if they get
one-on-one matchups,"Rodriguez
said. "They'll throw it deep to the
wide receivers and let them make
a play, so we've got to be prepared
for that. If we play soft, they're
going to take hitches and slants
underneath. We've got to break on
the ball, do some things to create
some pressure and not let (Claus-
en) get comfortable."
But even with both teams on
the upswing this year, Michigan
can't, of course forget last year's
Notre Dame game. The rain, the
fumbles, the sloppiness and the
questions that followed spurred
Rodriguez to say after the game,
"Michigan football will be back.
All the naysayers out there, what-
ever. I'm disappointed but I'm not
discouraged. Michigan football
will be back."
One year later, his words finally
have the potential to possibly ring
true.

FIL EPHOTO
The student section wore free blue T-shirts to create a block 'M'last year at the Wisconsin home game.
we'll find out Saturday," said MSA licate that in Ann Arbor. In the fall time in order to get to do ita second
representative Andrew Chinsky, of his freshman year, Chinsky called time," Chinsky said. "You know,
the mastermind behind the compli- the Michigan Athletic Department Michigan has a very rich tradition,
cated stunt. about the idea. obviously, and if things don't go
Chinsky is from Pennsylvania, But with the season already half right, then people get nervous about
and many of his friends at Penn State over at the time, it would have been what's going to end up."
told him about the Nittany Lion impossible to do. Instead, Chinsky The preparation has been much
Club - if you've ever seen a Penn kept in contact with people in the easier this season, since Chinsky
State home football game, you've Athletic Department and started kept the blueprints they created for
seen the giant block 'S' in the stu- talking with some friends in the the 'M' last season, but they have
dent section during a White Out. He School of Engineering to come up made some changes. Instead of in
said his friends told him the atmo- with some block 'M' schematics. the middle of the student section,
sphere at games increased dramati- "I think everyone involved was where the curve of the bowl warped
cally when they successfully pulled pretty nervous about it, because it's it a little last year, the 'M' will be
off the'S,'so Chinsky wanted to rep- important for it to go right the first moved behind the band.

Clausen and Co. will be too much for Wolverine defense

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN and
RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editors
MICHIGAN OFFENSE VS.
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE
If you saw Tate Forcier's touch-
down pass to Junior Hemingway
last Saturday and got a warm, fuzzy
feeling about the rest of the season,
just remember: That was Western
Michigan's defense.
Notre Dame should be a much
bigger challenge for Forcier and
true freshman quarterback Denard
Robinson. And with Hemingway
questionable for Saturday, the pass-
ing game's not looking as good for
the Wolverines.
Last week, the Irish defense gave
head coach Charlie Weis his first
career defensive shutout in South
Bend with an easy 35-0 win over
Nevada.
The Irish are deepest in the sec-
ondary, where they boast a con-
tingent of four returning starters
- cornerbacks Darrin Walls and
Robert Balton and safeties Kyle

McCarthy and Harrison Smith.
Smith moved back to his natural
position this season after spending
last season at outside linebacker.
On the bright side, the Irish
defensive line is underdeveloped.
Despite the shutout, Notre Dame
surrendered 7.3 yards per rush-
ing attempt on first down against
Nevada. If tailback Carlos Brown
can come through with the type of
performance he showed last week,
the Wolverines should pick up
enough offenseonthe ground.
With the weak defensive line and
young linebacker corps, this could
be the breakout game for Robinson.
The Big House just saw a glimpse of
Robinson's blazing speed last Sat-
urday, and if Michigan can't get its
passing game going, expect to see
more of him.
Edge:Push
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE VS.
MICHIGAN DEFENSE
The two guys to watch and poten-
tially scream four-letter words at
Saturday are Notre Dame receivers

Golden Tate and Michael Floyd. It's all going to come down to how
If Michigan beats the Fighting Weis is able to plan against Wol-
Irish, it will be because junior cor- verine defensive coordinator Greg
nerback Donovan Warren and soph- Robinson's schemes, which will
omore cornerback Boubacar Cissoko continue to become more and more
were able to contain one of the top disguised as the season progresses.
receiving duos in the country. We give the advantage to the
More likely, it will be a difficult Irish, but if Warren and Cissoko
battle with Notre Dame trying to keep all the big-play balls in front
capitalize on its biggest advantage. of them, Michigan will be in good
Warren seemed very excited for shape.
the challenge at Monday's press Edge:Notre Dame
conference, but he and Cissoko each
must overcome height disadvan- INTANGIBLES
tages of two-plus inches against two Somehow on the same week-
receivers that are great at going up end as the Southern Cal-Ohio State
and bringing down any ball nearby. matchup, Michigan and Notre
Coupled with Michigan's depth Dame are hogging the front page of
issues in the secondary and three- ESPN.com.
year starterJimmy Clausen at quar- It's safe to say the age-old rivalry
terback for Notre Dame, this will is back on the national stage.
be a much bigger challenge for the The Wolverines are obviously
physical backs than the one posed looking to avenge their 3-9 season,
by Western Michigan. similar to how the Irish bounced
Irish fullback James Aldridge, a back from a terrible year two sea-
former rivals.com five-star recruit, sons ago to win a bowl game. And
is out for the game, which certainly Notre Dame is being discussed as a
hampers a rush attack that won't be potential BCS bowl contender. It's a
as much of a concern for Michigan. proving ground for both on a huge

stage after each team made a name
for itself in the opening week in
dominant fashion.
Edge:Push
SPECIAL TEAMS
It wasn't spectacular, but the
Wolverines' return game against
Western Michigan had to make
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
smile.
No fumbles.
It was a refreshing change from
last year's unforced error-ridden
season, with the worst performance
coming in South Bend where the
Wolverines had four fumbles on
returns.
Kickoff and punt coverage boded
well for the Irish last week against
Nevada, holding the Wolf Pack to
just 17.6 yards per kickoff return.
Punter Zoltan Mesko is the dif-
ference maker here, averaging 47.5
yards per punt last week.
Edge: Michigan
SCORE:
NOTRE DAME WINS 31-28

SPECIAL TEAMS
P

K

KR
1. Stonum, Darryl Sophomore
2. Odoms, Martavious Sophomore

2bOlesnavage, Jason Fifth-year senior 1. Mesko, Zoltan Fifth-year senior
2. Gibbons, Brendan Freshman 2. Wright, Bryan Redishirt junior

Note: Depth chart as predicted by Daily football writers.




_W

_w

7_.

7

l4w

7

7

w

w

qw

crw September Football Saturday -

September 12, 2009 - Football Saturday 4-m-

..fir;
"-

*7*,.

4..' ~'.

PAHOKEE. FLA. - IT'S NOT QUITE SUMMER, BUT THE FIRST TWANGS OF THE-DOG-DAYS ARE

already snaking through the warm spring months. It's
hard to escape the heat in a place like this, and although
its endearing residents affectionately call it "Muck
City," the ground and air are dry and thick with chalky
dust.
Dusk is just beginning to set in as we walk into a
small, square, grey box of a house. It's across the street
from one of the most dangerous areas in town, and we
have been repeatedly told not to be outside after dark.
We walk through the tile-floored living room and kitch-
en and into a cramped bedroom.
The floor, bed, desk, nightstand and every other flat
surface in the room are all covered in a thick layer of
rewritable DVDs, anything from "Superbad" to "Ter-
minator: Salvation" (a movie that would not come out
ifs theaters for another week) to Pahokee High School
football highlight tapes, which the owner is particu-
larly proud of.
He pops in one of the myriad discs. It's a guerrilla-
style video called "Palm Beach County: Gangstas and
Thugs." Local gun-toting gang members flash across
the screen, beating each other senseless and shooting
AK-47s into the air.
"That's my cousin; he's in jail," he says pointing, to
the screen. "Oh, and that kid's dead. He was 17."
Every five minutes or so, a new customer wanders
unannounced into this makeshift Blockbuster and sifts
through the pile of ripped movies. One acts surprised
when he pulls out his wallet and finds that it's empty.
"Don't even worry about it - just pay me back later,"
the owner says.
It's not about the money with an operation like this.
Sure, it's illegal, but what are the residents of this small,
flailing farm town, where the median family income
is almost $25,000 below the national average, sup-
posed to do? There's one movie theater along a decrepit
strip of buildings, the only area that could remotely be
described as "downtown." Its windows are boarded up
tightly, and one can only guess how long the marquee
has beenblank. The next closest cinema is in Clewiston,
Fla., more than a 40-minute car ride away.
Not that many Pahokee residents could afford a trip
to the movies, anyway. Vast sugarcane fields surround

the town, and when United Sugar closed its Pahokee
based plant about five years ago, it took away a major
lifeline, according to city commissioner Susan Feltner.
Many people left, and those who stayed are still suffer=
ing through an even more crippled economy.
"A lot of these kids hardly ever leave Palm Beach
County, and a lot of them haven't even been 45 miles
east to West Palm, to the beach," Pahokee defensive
coordinator Rick James said. "So all they know is Paho-
kee."
It's hard to imagine a place in America where chil-
dren can't see movies. Or go bowling. Or hang out at the
mall, eat French fries with friends at a Burger King, play
mini-golf or go to a skating rink. But for Martavious
Odoms, Vincent Smith and Brandin Hawthorne - three
members of the Michigan football team - that was life.
Without the normal childhood distractions, Pahokee
natives have two options:
One is dedicating your life to the high school football
team, which has won five of the last six state champion-
ships and could see as many as 14 seniors earn Division-I
scholarships this year, and Michigan is in the hunt for
many of those kids.
The other isn't so promising.
Former Pahokee coach Don Thompson, who earned
a scholarship to The Citadel after playing for the Blue
Devils in his heyday, said it best:
"You know, if it wasn't for Pahokee football, I'd prob-
ably be in jail or prison somewhere."
LOCAL GANGS RECRUIT boys as young as 12. At that
age, kids are used as "jitterbugs," transferring weapons
and money from one party to another. It's safer for the
thugs and raises fewer red flags with the-police.
Once you get into it, it's hard to get out.
"There's nothing to do here," Jawarski Boui, Smith's
half-brother, said. "It's easy to get into smoking weed,
robbing, they even started killing around here."
Boui said that in order to stock up on the more seri-
ous weapons like the AK-47s, teenagers will drive pick-
up trucks into the front of a gun store, load the bed with
as much as they can grab ina few minutes and speed off
to a safehouse.
Rarely do the Pahokee Blue Devils - who attract the

entire 6,500-person town on game days - and the area's
gang life interact. Instead, the football team bands
together. Smith, Odoms and Hawthorne have known
each other since they were small children. They've
played football together since age eight. Smith dated
Hawthorne's sister when they were 10 years old. And
through it all, the three players have worked toward an
eventual common goal - a scholarship to the University
of Michigan.
But when Pahokee football and Pahokee gangsters
do butt heads, it can rock the community, which has
invested so much - physically, emotionally and spiritu-
ally - in its Blue Devils.
James - who's at the local Rec Center helping kids
whenever he's not on the football field drilling them -
remembered, with a heavy sigh and teary eyes, Leonard
Pitts, an electrifying running back that played in the
early 2000s.
"He was one of the most gifted athletes I've ever
seen," James said. "But I could drive you 'round these
streets right now and point out 10, 15 guys that should
be playing in the NBA or NFL right now and didn't make
smart choices."
Somewhere along the line, Pitts's God-given abilities
on the field weren't enough, and he started mixing with
the wrong people in Palm Beach County. His grades
slipped and he left the football team. He eventually
stopped showing up to school altogether. A week before
James recalled this story, he briefly caught up with Pitts
- as the former running back painted the County Com-
missioner building with his fellow prisoners.
In 2004, Pitts was arrested on first-degree battery
charges, and he has been in jail since. But he might be
the lucky one. According to James, someone shoved a
shotgun in Pitts's youngerbrother's mouth and blew the

back of his head onto the pavement. One of Pitts's older
brothers is dead, too - another victim of the West Palm
Beach gang community, one of the most hostile and vio-
lent in the United States.
If Pitts had stayed with the Blue Devils, who knows
where he'd be today. With Pahokee's track record - one
look at a Youth League photo from 10 years ago reveals
eight or nine current Division-I players - it's easy to
imagine a better life for such a gifted athlete.
"That's how we save them from the gangs - the game
of football," James said.
But sometimes, football isn't enough.
ON SEPT. 27, 2008, Brandin Hawthorne was in Ann
Arbor for an official visit before committing to Michi-
gan. It was the perfect Saturday for the freshman line-
backer to make the trip north. A hint of summer still
hung in the fall air on a crisp afternoon, perfect condi-
tions for a football game in the Big House.
He saw the Sooth game in Michigan Stadium history,
one that will hang in fans' minds for years to come - a
19-point comeback over Wisconsin in the most exciting
game of the season.
Some might point to the energy on the corner of Sta-
dium and Main as the reason Hawthorne chose Michi-
gan. Others might say it was the immaculate facilities
or enthusiastic meetings with members of the team and
coaching staff. But none of that was on Hawthorne's
mind that day. Hours before his flight, he sat in a hos-
pital waiting room with Pahokee head coach Blaze
Thompson and the mother of one of his best friends,
Norman "Pooh" Griffith.
That Friday, Pahokee had beaten Jupiter High School
34-10. It was a big night for Pooh - he was named the
team's Most Valuable Player after the game, and accord-
ing to James, Iowa State had called to give him a full-

ride scholarship offer that day. To celebrate, Pooh went
to a dance at Glades Central High School, the Blue
Devils' fiercest rival. There was a scuffle when people
found out Pooh, one of Pahokee's best players, was at
the dance. Pooh did what he was supposed to, exactly
what Pahokee coaches preach to their kids from youth
club football to high school. He left at the first whiff of
trouble.
As his car was leaving the parking lot, six shots were
fired from at least two guns. Pooh died later that night.
There's an 18-year-old sitting in jail for the shooting.
His name is Carl Booth Jr., akid who came through the
Rec Center with Coach James and everyone else. He

"It kills me dead, man. It kills me dead," James said.
"It hurts for the simple reason that, you can't save them
all. For some, it's not going to happen. And this is what
happens when you don't do all you can for these kids.
It's a tragedy."
And there was Hawthorne, exhausted from the
game and the swell of emotions, sitting in the hospi-
tal's waiting room and adamantly deciding against fly-
ing to Michigan. He had already softly committed to
the school. He was comfortable with the program but
wasn't 100-percent set, and felt that being with Pooh's
family was much more important.
But Pooh's mother Jackie and the Pahokee coaching
staff convinced him to go.
"When I got (to Michigan), they knew what hap-
pened," Hawthorne said. "They embraced me. They
asked me if I needed anything. They asked me how I
was feeling. It was great. They took me in like I was
already here, a player already here."
To make Hawthorne feel even more like a family
member, the Michigan coaches promised he could wear
No. 7, Pooh's old jersey number.
"I was telling his parents, 'When I get to college, I'm
going to wear No. 7 and dedicate it to Pooh,' and I kept
my word," Hawthorne said. "It's a great feeling to wear
No. 7, because when I wear it, I feel like he's looking
down on me, like, 'You gotta do it for me."
Hawthorne was home. He committed. and enrolled
early. It was hard to move to Ann Arbor and leave his
one-year-old daughter, Brandi, behind. But with a good
education and a chance to play at the next level, Haw-
thorne knew Michigan could give him the opportunity
to "raise my daughter and be the father to her that my
father was never to me."
See PAHOKEE, page 7B

knew Pooh, was friends with Pooh. He is the son of the
director of The Pahokee Church of God, Pooh's church.
He had tried out for the Pahokee High School foot-
ball team for the 2007 season. Even though the staff
doesn't like to cut players - the more kids they can help,
the more that stay off the streets - they had to trim the
roster out of necessity.
Booth didn't make it.

(CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT)(1) Dark skies loom at one of
Pahokee's 20 allotted spring practices. (2) Downtown Pahokee,
just down the road from the shore of Lake Okeechobee. (3) Paho-
kee defensive coordinator Rick James shows off a few of his
championship rings. (4) Florida State commit De'Joshua Johnson
jogs out to practice. (5) Players resting after a tough practice.


