We Midigan BaiI&
NEHUN E)-NINEI) "TEEN YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, March 19, 2009

michigandaily.com

Canton residents Dan Gottschalk, Colleen Carefell and Joshua Carefell explore a showcase in the Exhibit Museum of Natural History last week.
Exhibiting financial restraint

As budgets tighten,
local families head
in droves to campus
museums
By MALLORY JONES
DailyStaffReporter
Looking for an inexpensive
alternative to vacations and mov-
ies, members of the University
community have found a tougher-
on-the-mind, easier-on-the-wallet
way to spend their free time: going

to a museum.
The Exhibit Museum of Natural
History, which is free but suggests
a $6 donation per visitor, has wit-
nessed an increase in attendance in
the last few months. Senior Exhibit
Preparator John Klausmeyer said
the economic downtown is a likely
cause for this shift.
"I've been at the museum near-
ly 25 years, so I've worked here
through several recessions, and
this has always been the trend," he
wrote in an e-mail interview.
James Steward, director of the
University's Museum of Art, said
the psychological pressure of a poor

economy also increases attendance
at museums.
Steward's previous institution,
the art museum at the University
of California at Berkeley, witnessed
increased attendance during the
recession of the early 1990s, he
said.
"Many museums - especially
those like us that have no admis-
sion fee - experience upturns in
attendance during periods of tur-
moil, including economic chal-
lenge," Steward wrote in an e-mail
interview. "tn the period after 9/11,
for instance, we along with many
museums apart from those in New

York City saw substantial increases
in attendance as visitors sought the
solace that art can provide."
But attendance trends can go
both ways, Steward said. Museums
that generally have a lot of visitors
from far away, like those in New
York City, are seeing a downturn
in attendance because people are
traveling less. Also, he said, many
museums have seen drop-offs in
the sales from their stores.
Because the University's art
museum has been closed since June
2006, attendance.data for the cur-
rent recession is not available. But
See MUSEUMS, Page 3A

Notes from the first day of elections

Voting software
malfunctions, loses
747 cast ballots
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
Malfunctions of the voting soft-
ware used to tally votes caused
problems for this year's student
government elections yesterday.
Because of the malfunction in
the voting software provided by
Information Technology Cen-
tral Services, votes cast between
midnight and 8:45 a.m. yesterday
morning for the LSA Student Gov-
ernment elections did not count.
The problem was fixed later yes-
terday morning.
The 747 students whose votes

were affected recieved notification
by e-mail to recast their votes for
the LSA elections. The problematic
elections included the Michigan
Student Assembly LSA representa-
tives and LSA Student Government
presidents, vice presidents and
representatives. Votes cast for the
other 13 student government elec-
tions were not affected.
The e-mail from the MSA elec-
tion directors apologized for the
inconvenience and stressed the
importance of keeping the election
fair.
"Maintaining the integrity of
our election process is very impor-
tant to us," the e-mail read. "And
we want to assure you that the
problem was promptly addressed
very soon after an initial report
was received."
See LOST BALLOTS, Page 3A

Election officials try
to boost traditionally
low voter turnout
ByJENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
In last year's Michigan Student
Assembly winter election, 2,246
votes were cast - about 6.4 percent
of the entire student body. But this
year, the Election Board is hoping
that won't be the case.
The board has taken new mea-
sures to combat the historic voter
apathy that has plagued student
government elections on campus.
The board and current MSA
President Sabrina Shingwani, sent
out more all-campus e-mails than
in past elections. The e-mails were

also shortened, which MSA Gen-
eral Counsel Michael Benson said
would make students more likely
to read them.
In past election cycles, only
independent candidates were
permitted to provide their indi-
vidual platforms in the all-cam-
pus e-mails. This election, both
independent and party-affiliated
candidates are allowed to provide
individual descriptions of their
platforms in the e-mails.
Representatives were required
to be a visible presence around
North and Central Campuses the
week before the election in an effort
to encourage students to vote and
answer questions aboutthe election.
Benson, who is a student in
Rackham Graduate School, said if
students are aware the election is
See TURNOUT, Page 3A

For one prof., operating in an unusual place

del Monte teaches,
performs surgeries
in the back of a plane
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Most doctors operate in hospi-
tals. Monte del Monte, professor
of pediatric ophthalmology at the
University, likes to operate in a
DC-10 airplane.
During two weeks in Febru-
ary, Monte traveled on a medical
mission trip to Trujillo, Peru with
ORBIS International - a non-gov-
ernment organization that brings
doctors from the United States to

developing countries on a plane
called the Flying Eye Hospital used
to both perform surgeries and train
local doctors.
TheFlying Eye Hospital has been
traveling since 1982, when United
Airlines donated the wide-body
airplane to ORBIS. The inside of the
airplane was stripped of its seating
and replaced with a fully equipped
ophthalmological eye operating
room, pre-operation and post-oper-
ation areas, teaching classroom and
video studio which moderates the
cameras on the plane used to pho-
tograph surgeries.
As the only aircraft of its kind
in the world, the Flying Eye Hos-
pital has traveled to 86 countries
and provided eye care treatment to

University prof. Monte del Monte takes part in the Flying Eye Hospital program.
more than 6.8 million people. to give back to society the knowl-
Monte said he volunteers with edge he learned during his medical
the Flying Eye Hospital because training and career.
the experience is a rewarding way See EYE DOCTOR, Page 7A


WEATHER HI 42
TOMORROW LO 26

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news' michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
President Obama picks Clemson over Michigan.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX
Vol CXIX,No.112.
2009 The M chgan Daily
michigondailycom

NEWS ...............................2A SPORTS.. . . . A........5A
SUD K U ............................3A CLASSIPIED .S. . . A..... 6A
OPIN ION..........................4A THE B-SIDE ............. . 1B

A

4 I I


N ews

4

2A - Thursday, March 19, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


w .. ..
3 ..
,
,~yF. .
F
_ .:
,

Humble beginnings

It's hard to imagine foot-
hall Saturdays without the
presence of the Michigan
Marching Band, hut the
hand wasn't always part of
the football experience.
The hand hegan as a stu-
dent-run organization with
no outside support, accord-
ing to the Michigan March-
ing Band's wehsite.
Harry dePont, the march-
inghand's first official leader,
had to petition then-Univer-
sity President James Angell
for a rehearsal room for
about 30handmates, accord-
ing to the website. After pro-
posing a performance at the
Law School's ohservance of
George Washington's hirth-
day in Pehruary 1897, Angell
granted the hand a room in
University Hall to rehearse,
hut it was forced to relocate

after realizing the coo:
wasn't sound proof.
During the hand's fir:
year, it performed in sinai
er venues at indoor trac
meets and baseball game
hut by the fall of 1897, th
hand memhers got their bi
break, securing a perfoi
mance spot during a camps
mass meeting for the nee
foothall season, according:t
the website. A year later, ch
hand would he performin
at all football games.
After the t898 victor
against the Universityc
Chicago, the hand playe
"The Victors" for the fir:
time during a celebratio
through the streets of Ch
cago.
Though "The Victor;
was a success, some of ch
hand's other ideas weren

The Marchng Band daring the Michitan vs. Northwestern game as Nov. 15,
2008. The tand started as a student-run nrganization in 1897.
CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Man throws fists
to protect his hat
WHERE: Mary Markley Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday af shout 7:10
p.m.
WHAT: A University staff
member was punched
when another man unaf-
filiated with the University
attempted to knock the staff

Student pees
outside dorm
WHERE: Martha Cook Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Wednesdayatcabout
12:30 am.
WHAT: A male student was
cited for an ordinance violation
after urinating at Martha Cook,
University Police reported.

Universt oliepoted.t, Late-ihAr
UiestPoierpreThe perpetrator was arrested
for assault. arrest for drugs
MCard snatched adlqo
WHERE: Nichols Arhoretum
from bathroom WHEN: Wednesday at about

Skate for
Bangladesh
WHAT: An ice skating fund-
raiser to raise money for The
Girl Rffect, which helps girls
attend school and start a husi-
nesses. Tickets cost $8 at the
door.
WHO: Bengali Student Asso-
ciation
WHEN: Today 4 p.m. to 6
p.m.
WHERE: Vost Ice Arena
Competing
for a stand-up
comedy gig
WHAT: Michigan's beset
stand-up comedians compete
for a gig at a local comedy club.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight 7 p.m. to 10
p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Pendleton Room

A magical night
WHAT: A magic show fea-
turing magicians from all over
Michigan. Tickets cost $5 for
students.
WHO: Shazam
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: East Quad theater
Casino night
WHAT: Vegas-style gambling
with prizes from Ann Arbor
restaurants and stores.
WHO: Habitat for Humanity
WHEN: Tonight 7:30 p.m. to
10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Anderson Room
CORRECTIONS
. A viewpoint in yester-
day's edition of the Daily
(Tuition increases must end)
misidentified the University
of Michigan Engineering
Council.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

m so popular. In 1914, the
hand was met with laughter
at when it premiered its new
1- precision marching drill,
ck although ultimately the fans
s, came around to the new
he style, according to the web-
ig site.
r- Despite its early achieve-
us ments, the hand was forced
w to raise money through
to "passing the bucket" for the
he next two decades, due to
:g a lack of financial support
from the University, accord-
ry log to the website. In spite
of of their economic troubles,
rd the hand continued to stand
.st out. It even played during
so World War II, when most
i- University hands stopped
performing, and in the 1970s
s" it became one of the first to
he admit women.
s't - BRITTNEYMILLER
1The family of Charla Nash,
who was recently attacked
hy a chimpanzee, is ask-
ing for $50 million in damages
from the ape's owner, CNN.
com reported. Nash's attor-
ney's claim the owner was lia-
ble for the attack because she
knew of the animal's violent
behavior and did nothing to
protect the safety of visitors.
2The Ann Arhor Pilum
Pestival will explore
the roots of experimen-
tal film, starts March 24.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE PAGEi1B
3 Anew study shows people
who weigh twice their
recommended weight will
live 10 years less than peo-
ple with an average weight,
Porbescom reported. The
study found severe ohesity
shortens a lifespan the same
amount of years as smoking.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GAREYGRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor is Chief Business Hanager
734-647-3336 734-764-558
gr-aca@michigandailyecom bugli@miehigandailyeom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom offioe hoas:Sun5.-Thars.1t as..-2a.ms.
News Tipsnes@michigandaily.com,
Correctionscorretios@michiandaiy.com,
Letters tothe Editor tothedaiy@mihigandaity.com,
PhotographylDepartment photo@m~ichigandaily.com
ArtslSection arts@michigandaity.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandailyscom
Sports Section sports@m~ichigndaily.com
Display Sales disptay@michigandaity.com
Classified Sales ctassifted@michigandaity.cox
Online Sales ontineadspxichiadaiy.caom
Finance financew@ihiasdaitysawm
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManaeingEditor ratkorwiaks@mihsigandaity.com
Jacob SwilsitzManagengsewsEtorsailitzn@msichigandaiy.coms
SENORsasNESEDIORS:aillian Berma,,n, Treor al, Cili Sheide,
Lindaees
ASSISsTANsEWS EOS:osMat ars,,sBenOjamin 5. Chaes, Jenna Skotter,
Kyle Swansoee
RobertlSoave Editorial Page Editor asa@mchigaodaitysaam
ASSOIAoE DIOIAL AEEIOS: sEm~ilatones, Biaert, Rel Vn Gilder
ASSSTATsEITORIALePAEoEIOS:oEmsaAssa, EmmaJszke, MatthewShutter
AndytReid ManagingSportssEditor reid@michizasdaiy.om
SENIOR SPORnS EIS: ioe Auerbach, Mike Eisesi,,DanFelda,,Chris
Herring, RutkLincoln
snASSSANSRSEORSRan ness 5,sIan55Kay, Jason Kohe,5.Chris Meszaross,
Alex Prspns eri,oltRseweig
DassdWatsstk MasseineArssEditor wanick@mihiaedailneaw
SENIaOARTnEDO R:amsie lok,,BraennConais, WhitnePo
osASSSAN RS EDISJosahussa Bayer, nLi, Dv e apwBesn VaWsms
Zachary Meisner and pheo@esichigandaity.saes
tlif eeder Managing Phost ditors
aSENORPOTOEOSSasialahs,ChasnlssnHsbur~-Lothingen
AngelaChsih and design@michigandaiy.com
Maureen Stych MxagingeDesignoEditors
seSENIR EaSIGN EDvITR:Hllary Ruff
Jessica Vserchian Magazine Editorvoserrchian@michigandaily.com,
David MerianMultieiaditorae merian@m~ichigandaiy.coms
KatherineMitchell topytChief xitchelt@m~ichigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisgtSalesaaer
DISPLAY ADVRSN ASSOCITE As Ne AGS: Dsaniel
Newma, ChisiwePhiltips
Ryan Businski CtassifiedSates Manager
ClassifiedSlssAssisantManager: Alisao hoas
Marissa Gerber Ontine Sates Msaaer-
Ber Englishs'rodsctonsigisnManager
Meryl Italteng Layot Masner
Vistas Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Micheg aal ISN 0745-467) ispubished SMonday throughFridaydrig the tall and winter
teems bysudens aheierseOittysof Michiga. O5ecopy is availalefre of hreto all waders.
Additinal spies way be picked up at the taly's osfieto$.Subtsasiptinsll answter te
(September thougArillva U.. mil are $200.ear-roudhsbiptis (Fan, iterSpringad
Sumerwssues are $2Sbscipisms e repaid The MichianDalys awembe ofThe
Asoiae a ressand The AsoiatedtCollegat5res

I

WHERE: Ross School of Busi-
WHEN: Tuesday at shout 1 p.m.
WHAT: A female student had
her MWard stolen from the
women's restroom, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

WHAT: A male unaffili-
ated with the University was
arrested for possession of sus-
pected marijuana and consum-
ing alcohol in the arhoretum,
University Police reported.
The male was originally
approached for being in the
Arb after hours.

Make the Summer Work for You.
Earn Credits While on Break!
SUMMER SESSIONS REGISTRATION NOW OPEN
As a guest student at the University of Pittsburgh, you now have
more ways to meet your core and specialized class requirements
than ever before. Get a head start on the fall semester and pick up
some extra credits to stay on track or graduate early!
With more than 450 courses to choose from, summer sessions
2009 at Pitt offer:

Yale in
S mart.
Over 130 courses for full
Yale University credit :
Humanities, Science, Drama, Art
Two five-week intensive sessions:
June i-July 3, July 6 -August 7
Residential College living
See website for information and
application requirements.
Yale Summer Session 2009
http ://www.yale .edu/summer
Email: summersession@yale.edu
203 432-2430
Yale SummerSession
2009

1
4
4

0
6
0
0

" Flexible 4-week, 6-week,
or 12-week classes
" Broader course selection
" More general education
courses

" Wider variety of upper-division
courses
" Additional science lab sections
" Transferable credits
" Competitive per-credit tuition

Summer sessions 2009-more courses, more labs, more choices!
More of what you want! Registration is now open. Find out more
at www.summer.pitt.edu.
University of Pittsburgh
m College of General Studies
School of Arts and Sciences


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 19, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 19, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Stimulus to give
boost to food
stamp aid in Mich.
The federal stimulus package
will boost food stamp benefits and
nutrition services in Michigan.
Michigan families eligible for
the federal food assistance pro-
gram will get a 13.6 percent boost
in their monthly benefits starting
in April. State officials said yes-
terday that translates to about $80
more a month in grocery money for
a family of four.
Michigan also will get more than
$3 million from the stimulus plan
to boost nutrition services.
The cash will go to support meal
services for low-income people,
including homebound senior citi-
zens and programs at senior cen-
ters and schools.
WASHINGTON
Attorney General
announces change
in marijuana policy
Attorney General Eric Holder
signaled a change on medical mari-
juana policy Wednesday, saying
federal agents will target marijua-
na distributors only when they vio-
late both federal and state law.
That would be a departure from
the policy of the Bush administra-
tion, which targeted medical mari-
juana dispensaries in California
even if they complied with that
state's law.
"The policy is to go after those
people who violate both federal
and state law," Holder said in a
question-and-answer session with
reporters at the Justice Depart-
ment.
Medical marijuana advocates in
California welcomed the news, but
said they still worried about the
pending cases of those already in
court on drug charges.
California law permits the sale
of marijuana for medical purposes,
though it still is against federal
law.
SANTE FE, N.M.
New Mexico second
state to outlaw
death penalty
Gov. Bill Richardson signed leg-
islation Wednesday repealing New
Mexico's death penalty, making it
the second state to ban executions
since the U.S. Supreme Court rein-
stated the death penalty in 1976.
Richardson, a Democrat who
formerly supported capital pun-
ishment, said signing the bill was
the "most difficult decision" of his
political life.
"Faced with the reality that our
system for imposing the death pen-
alty can never be perfect, my con-
science compels me to replace the
death penalty with a solution that
keeps society safe," Richardson
told a news conference in the state
Capitol.
The most severe punishment
now will be a sentence of life in

prison without the possibility of
parole.
By signing the measure, New
Mexico joins 14 other states that
do not impose capital punishment.
New Jersey, in 2007, was the first
and only other state to outlaw capi-
tal punishment since its reinstate-
ment by the Supreme Court.
MANILA, Philippines
Filipino women
recants testimony
case against Marine
A Filipino woman whose accusa-
tions of rape led to the high-profile
conviction of a U.S. Marine has
altered her testimony, saying in an
affidavit that she may have led him
to believe she wanted sex.
The woman moved to the U.S.
this week and is no longer willing
to talk about the case, her lawyer
said yesterday. Lance Cpl. Daniel
Smith, convicted in 2006 of rap-
ing the woman and sentenced to 40
years in prison, remains detained
at the U.S. Embassy while he pur-
sues an appeal.
The case strained U.S.-Phil-
ippine military relations and
became a rallying point for anti-
American protesters who have
called for the scrapping of a pact
that allows U.S. troops to train
Filipino soldiers.
Smith's accuser submitted a five-
page affidavit to an appeals court
Tuesday saying she now doubts her
own version of events.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

University will
pay legal fees of
former student

AIG Chairmen Edward Liddy testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington yesterday before a House subcommittee.
Under pressure, AIG
exesreturn bonuses

Insurance giant to profits down the road. It's a lot
$ sweeter now than it's gonna be
give $165 millon later," said Rep. Gary Ackerman,
D-N.Y.
back to Congress Liddy slid into the witness
chair at a congressional hear-
WASHINGTON (AP) - Under ing as President Barack Obama
intense pressure from the Obama sought anew to quell a furor that
administration and Congress, has bedeviled his administration
the head of bailed-out insurance since word of the bonuses sur-
giant AIG declared yesterday faced over the weekend.
that some of the firm's execu- Obama, who took office just
tives have begun returning all under two months ago, told
or part of bonuses totaling $165 reporters his administration was
million. not responsible for a lack of fed-
Edward Liddy offered no eral supervision of AIG that pre-
details, and lawmakers were in no ceded the company's demise, nor
mood to wait. He was still field- for the decision made last year to
ing their questions when House pay what he called "outrageous
Democratic leaders announced bonuses."
plans for a vote today on legisla- Still, he said, "The buck stops
tion to tax away 90 percent of the with me." He said that "my goal
extra pay for executives at AIG is to make sure that we never
and many other bailed-out firms. put ourselves in this kind of
Liddy, brought in last year position again," and he dis-
to oversee a company that has closed the administration was
received $182 billion in federal consulting with Congress on
bailout funds, said he, too, was the possibility of creating a new
angry about the bonuses. But he agency to govern the meltdown
did not respond directly when of large financial institutions
advised in pungent terms to pay to such as AIG.
the Treasury all the money hand- He also gave a strongvote of con-
ed out last weekend in "retention fidence to Treasury Secretary Tim
payments." Geithner, who has been the target
"Eat it now. Take it out of your of growing Republican criticism.
the more likely they are to vote,"
TURNOUT he said. "We wanted to make it a
From Page 1A more personal thing."
One of the simpler techniques
occurring, they will have a great- the election board used was to
er incentive to vote. place banners on the Diag, inform-
"The more people see that the ing students to vote.
election is taking place and the "Certainly a lot of people
more they are contacted in per- should see it as they walk to and
son, rather than in mass e-mails, from class," Benson said.
the problem was caught early
LOST BALLOTS and affected students have been
From Page 1A notified. Also, a series of fol-
low-up e-mails reminding these
Election Director Emily students to recast their ballots
Winter, an LSA junior, said will also be sent, which Winter
she doesn't think the issue will said should help maintain voter
affect voter turnout because turnout.

Obama spoke as congressional
Democrats worked on legislation
designed to recoup most or all of
the $165 million by exposing it to
new taxes.
Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y.,
chairman of the tax-writing
House Ways and Means Com-
mittee, said the new 90 percent
tax would apply to bonus money
paid to employees earning more
than $250,000 at firms that have
received more than $5 billion in
federal bailout funds. Mortgage
giants Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac are covered under the pro-
posal.
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer,
D-Md., said the bill would be voted
onunderrulesrequiringatwo-thirds
majority for passage. Democrats are
in comfortable control of the House
but do not control two-thirds of the
seats, meaning the outcome of the
vote would probably be determined
bytax-averse Republicans.
Republicans raised pointed
questions about the extent of Gei-
thner's advance knowledge of the
bonuses, and stressed they had
been locked out of discussions
earlier this year when Democrats
decided to jettison a provision.
from legislation that could have
revoked the payments.
The Election Board also
bought non-partisan ads on
Facebook.com, encouraging stu-
dents to vote. Benson said the ads
would reach out to a vast audi-
ence, which he said should draw
in votes.
"Even if half of 1 percent of the
thousands of views click on it, that
would help," he said.

In December, Zwick
was awarded $1.72M
for being wrongly
expelled from'U'
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
The University will be forced
to pay approximately $320,990 in
legal fees to the law firm that rep-
resented Alissa Zwick, a former
University Dentistry student who
claimed she was unfairly expelled
from the University.
Inadditiontothe$320,990,Zwick
was awarded $1.72 million at a fed-
eral court hearing in December.
Zwick, who was expelled in
2005 after being told she wasn't fit
to practice dentistry by the associ-
ate dean of the Dental School and
other instructors, filed the lawsuit
in May 2006.
At the hearing in December, a
jury ruled that the University vio-
lated Zwick's rights since she was
discharged after her third year of
dental school while maintaining a
"B" average.
In response to the ruling, the
University is appealing the jury's
verdict, according to University
spokeswoman Kelly Cunningham.
"We believe that there was not
sufficient evidence for them to find
that Ms. Zwick's due process rights
were violated by the defendants or
MUSEUMS
From Page 1A
Steward said that with the expand-
ed building, new exhibitions, and
more accessible open hours, he
expects to see a large increase in
attendance from before the con-
struction.
"The fact that we're also free
suggests we will be an increasingly
attractive option for visitors watch-
ing their budgets, as we can be an
attractive alternativeto going to the
multiplex or to amusement parks
and other leisure options," Steward
wrote in an e-mail interview.
Lauren Talalay, associate direc-
tor and curator at the Kelsey Muse-
um ofArchaeology,said she expects
attendance to reach all-time highs

by the School of Dentistry," Cun-
ningham wrote in an e-mail state-
ment yesterday. "The evidence
shows that the School of Dentistry
complied with all legal require-
ments and with its own proce-
dures."
Cunningham added that before
anyone can be dismissed for aca-
demic reasons, the student is "enti-
tled to due process."
"To comply with the legal
requirements of due process, a stu-
dent must be made aware of the fac-
ulty's dissatisfaction with his/her
progress andthe decision to dismiss
him/her was careful and deliber-
ate," she said. "The Dental School
has well-established procedures
that protect a student's due process
rights before she is dismissed from
an academic program."
Cunningham said the University
has legal insurance that will pay for
them.
The $320,990 will be divided into
approximately $307,088 for legal fees
to Zwick's attorneys - which is near
the $309,388 that the attorneys origi-
nally requested - and the remaining
$13,902 will be used for other costs.
After the University dismissed
Zwick, she was unable to enter
other dental programs even though
before attending the University of
Michigan's School of Dentistry she
was accepted into eight other den-
tal schools. She is currently work-
ing toward a master's degree in
speech pathology at Eastern Michi-
gan University.
after the new wing of the building
opens in November. She said it is
important for exhibits to be free at
a public university.
"We've never charged anything,
and we don't plan on ever charging
anything," Talalay said.
Amy Majors, who was visiting
the Exhibit Museum of Natural
History from Texas, said she appre-
ciated that the museum provided
her with free entertainment for her
two daughters.
Aimee Pelletier, another visitor,
comes to the museum about once a
year, she said.
While-she appreciates that the
museum is technically free she
called the suggested donation "a lit-
tle bit high." She added that despite
the economic recession, she gives
whatever she can.

WANT TO JOIN NEWS?
E-MAIL
SMILOVITZ@MICHIGANDAILY.COM


ArborVitae Women's Center
We provide the following services FREE of charge:
Pregnancy testing
Ultrasounds
Women's health and abortion info
Material support and referrals
Spiritual support
A r b 0%-r V it
Day and Evening Appointments Available

Undergraduate Fellows Program
2009-2010
What: Six to eight fellowships funded with a $4000 stipend for the 2009-10 academic year.
Each Fellow will carry out an individual project related to ethics in public life, and
participate in twice monthly Fellows meeting and other Center activities and events.
Who: Undergraduates currently enrolled at UM Ann Arbor campus, who will be enrolled
full time and in residence for the entire 2009-10 academic year.
When: Applications are due via email to ethics@umich.edu by 5:00pm April 10, 2009.
The Center for Ethics in Public Life (www.ethics.umich.edu) is an interdisciplinary
center dedicated to the encouragement of teaching, research and creative projects, and
public discourse that promote understanding of the ethical dimensions of our lives, and
especially, the lives we live in common.
Questions? Email ethics@umich.edu


. .
w '" . .

4

4A - Thursday, March 19, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
"x Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tathedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
.rM THE DAILY
On-the-go blue
City proposal gives opportunity for better transportation
What has two wheels, four tires and chugs along a track?
The answer is Ann Arbor's proposed Transportation
Master Plan Update, which was approved Tuesday
night by the City Planning Commission. The plan features myriad
improvements to city transportation options that focus on conve-
nient, environmentally friendly alternatives to owning a car. Better
mass transit options are essential for maintaining the city's walk-
ability, protecting the environment and maintaining socioeconomic
diversity. City Council should uphold these ideals by swiftly passing
the Master Plan.

I'm sure if you went downtown and
polled ten people, nine would have no idea."
- Stacy Robertson, a business owner in Wilton, Conn., commenting on the fact that few people in
Wilton knew that AIG had an office there, as reported yesterday by the Los Angeles Times.
Abusing the system
n his column one week ago, my so affordability was a non-issue to us. care provider the federal government
fellow Daily columnist Mat- But free-of-charge care is what led my will use for veterans, and the system is
thew Green said healthcare is an family to abuse the emergency room frequently lauded for its excellent care
"inherent human and use it for headaches. Predictably, and ability to negotiate lower pre-
right' (A sick U.S. my family stopped this practice when scription drug prices for its patients.
healthcare sys- our insurance began to charge us for
tem, 03/09/09). I the emergency room.
thought his ]an- As I look at the national discussion
guage was intense, to provide affordable health care for The downside of
but nonetheless, all, I worry that the same abuse could
his opinion is not occur. If there is no disincentive from free health care
unique. The elec- going to the emergency room for rou-
tion of President tine care, then why not use it? It was in the U.S.
BarackO bama, PATRICK only afterthe emergencyroomwasn't
who promised to ZABAWA so affordable that my family stopped
provide afford- abusing it. Emergency rooms are
able health care already overcrowded, and some are But one of the reasons the system
access to all barely able to handle the patients that is so successful at negotiating lower
Americans, shows many Americans come in, so bringing in patients with drug prices is because it purchases
believe health care should be a right. non-life-threatening ailments will older drugs instead of newer ones. A
This belief is partially based on the only prevent fast treatment for those 2005 report by Columbia University
many horror stories told through- who more desperately need care. ' professor Frank Lichtenberg found
out the country about people unable Providing affordable health care thatheVHA administers older drugs
to cover their medical expenses or" for everyone allows everyone to then to its patients much more frequently
afford treatments even when they abuse their affordable health care. than the rest of the medical indus-
have health insurance. A 2005 Har- But it may also allow the healthcare try, which results in worse patient
vard University study of over 1,700 providers to abuse their patients. care. According to Lichtenberg, this
bankruptcies showed that medical Just last month, I went on an Alter- practice has resulted in a decrease
problems caused half of them, even native Spring Break trip to Baltimore, in average patient life expectancy
though three-quarters of those bank- Maryland. One of the sites at which of two months since 1997. The VHA,
rupt people had health insurance. I worked was Gallagher Services, a the only choice the veterans have for
I myself was always lucky to have home for the mentally handicapped. their healthcare, is abusingthem.
excellent health insurance. A visit to Gallagher Services is an aspect of As Green and others around the
the doctor only costs me five or ten Catholic Charities that started in the country begin to think of health care
dollars in copay charges, and I was 1980's because of the abuse the state- as a right, it's important to note that
free to visit the healthcare providers run institutions performed on their this right can be easily abused and
of my choice. When I was young, my patients. Because the patients were can cause abuse itself. In any health-
family's insurance completely cov- living in cells in the institutions, Gal- care system, both disincentives from
ered almost all medical expenses. lagher was designed to give the men- patient abuse and choice are essen-
This even included emergency room tally handicapped a home, education tial. For my own family, the way to
visits, so my family abused this privi- and meaningful work so that they prevent us from abusing the emer-
lege. Anything from acough to anear- could be respected as people instead gency room was simply to charge
ache resulted in a short drive to the of simply patients. us for its use. To prevent systems
emergency room where we received The mentally handicapped in from abusing their patients, patients
immediate treatment at a time of Maryland are lucky that an alterna- need the ability to choose their own
our choosing instead of making an tive to their state-run institutions healthcare provider so that they can
appointment and working around our opened. Others are not so lucky and move to another if their current pro-
family doctor's schedule. We did this are trapped within the system given to vider isn't providing - because in the
so often that to my young mind, a trip them. This is the case with the Veter- end, the system itself should not be a
to the doctor was synonymous with a ans Health Administration, the divi- patient's cause of death.
trip to the emergency room. sion of the federal government that is
My family's health insurance is dedicated to caring for the health of - Patrick Zabawa can be reached
provided by my parents' employers, military veterans. It is the sole health at pzabawa@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tohedaily@umich.edu.

4

The new 20-year update will be the first
serious revision to the city's transit infra-
structure since 1990. It aims to encourage
city development and create higher density
residential living through expansive pub-
lic transit overhauls. The plan proposes to
improve local highway interchanges, create
more bicycle lanes, build new train stations
and construct an Ann Arbor-Detroit rail line
that will eventually expand to incorporate
Dexter, Jackson and Chelsea in an effort to
reduce transportation congestion.
This new vision for transportation is
among many other programs being funded
through the Obama administration's Omni-
bus Appropriations Act. The $410 billion
provided by the act will delegate funding in
packages to local applicants for projects to
renovate and modernize areas vital to city
infrastructure.
And developing better options for mass
transit is crucial to maintaining Ann Arbor's
walkability. There simply isn't enough avail-
able parking for every student to have a car
- and the spaces that are available should
be saved for commuters. Decreasing traffic
and allowing for easy transportation across
the city is important for all residents. Devel-
opments like bicycle lanes are great ways to
propose alternatives for getting around.
Better mass transit systems are also neces-
sary to combat the effects that urban sprawl

can have on socioeconomic diversity. A city
like Ann Arbor demands that those on the
fringes of the city have the same access to
downtown businesses and University insti-
tutions that other residents have. The plan
will also link Ann Arbor to other cities via
rail lines - a vital way to promote intercon-
nectedness between different cities.
Another example of city efforts to improve
transportation options is Zipcar. Although
relatively new to the rental car market, Zip-
car has become quite popular and useful
among .students and Ann Arbor residents
alike. By covering the cost of insurance, gas
and initial parking, Zipcar offers students
an alternative to bringing individual cars to
campus. It is this very expediency that the
DowntownDevelopmentAuthorityis hoping
to advance by supporting the company's pur-
chase of their latest cars. City Council should
recognize the great potential that ideas like
this have and support these efforts.
An Ann Arbor transportation overhaul
will work to counter the growing congestion
and pollution within the city, while effective-
ly creating a more sustainable infrastructure
for the future. Improving public transit and
pedestrian traffic ways, along with offering
more personalized options such as Zipcar,
is at the very core of a community already
invested in green technology and sustain-
able living.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
LESLIE ZAIKIS AND BRENDON MIKA VIEWPOINT
The Provost's panel

Violent gender roles

If we hope to maintain the quality of our edu-
cation and the quality of student life the Univer-
sity of Michigan is going to have to make cuts
in its budget. As students, we are keenly aware
of the effects of the current economic situation
on our personal lives. Many of us are aware of
our expenses, some of us are struggling to find
jobs or internships and others are being forced
to make some difficult financial decisions with
our families right now. Our college experience
and the University are also not immune to the
economic downturn and its ramifications.
In response to the economic situation, Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan formed a small ad hoc
group, called the Prudence Panel. The purpose
of this group is to identify cost-cutting opportu-
nities in the academic operations of the Univer-
sity. With the state budget outlook appearing
grim for the next few years, the Provost wants
to identify meaningful ways to cut costs with-
out affecting the highest priorities of the Uni-
versity. The goal is to maintain the quality of
the University while being financially prudent.
HARUN BULJINA

As the student representatives on the panel,
we want to bring your ideas, thoughts and
experiences to this group for consideration.
Students experience the day-to-day operations
of this University and know the ins and outs
of campus better than anyone. Students also
have the ingenuity and the knowledge to craft
creative and innovative solutions to this prob-
lem. What things should the University stop
doing? What things can we do less of? What
things can we do more efficiently or cheaply?
Your input and suggestions will be vital to this
process. Please send ideas, questions, and con-
cerns to the email addresses listed below. Our
first meeting is Monday, and we will be able to
present ideas that are sent by the night of Sun-
day, March 22. We genuinely hope to hear from
you.
We can be reached at lzaikis@umich.edu or
mikabren@umich.edu.
Leslie Zaikis is the president of LSA-SG
and Brendon Mika is a Law student.
E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU

Even though most of the con-
versation about violence in
relationships over the past
few weeks has been
dedicated to Chris
Brown and Rihan-
na, I'm glad the dis-
course is surging..
It's interesting how.
often the romantic
lives of everyday
people intersect ;
with public policy.
This week, Depart- ROSE
ment of Justice AFRIYIE
made available to
offer $43 million
of recovery act
funds to women in violent domestic
relationships who need transitional
housing.
But government can only go so far.
The key to addressing violence in
relationships is linked to questioning
the obsolete attitudes often expressed
in the discussion on violence. To
my dismay, many of the good old
gender norms have reemerged, and
these gender social norms are worth
exploring and analyzing as we pursue
healthy relationships.
There are two gender norms in
particular that I would like to grapple
with. The first is that a man should
never hit a woman. The subtextual
element to this gender social norm
is that women are, with respect to
physical strength, biologically infe-
rior. It would then follow that since
women are physically inferior, they
cannot commit violence in their rela-
tionships.
It's not my intention to take on the
scientific community. But it seems
that research on the physicalstrength
difference between the sexes and
how it correlates with the capacity to
commit violence is lacking.
Beyond the data, I can't help but

feel bothered that an element of
sexism is the driving force behind
restraining oneself from intimate
partner violence. Updated norms
should reflect that women deserve
to live violent-free lives not because
they are women but because they
are human - and it's morally wrong
to commit violence against another
human being.
It's not only straight women who
experience violence. Lesbians and
men of all sexual orientations are
often victims as well. But we need
to recognize that women in hetero-
sexual partnerships disproportion-
ately experience this crime and that
there is an element of discrimination
involved that requires thoughtful
government intervention.
The second, perhaps more con-
troversial, gender norm is that there
are two types of men: the violent and
the non-violent. This is particularly
problematic considering that vio-
lence exists on a continuum and not
in two columns.
It's true that there's a difference
between the man who hospitalizes
their partner on more than one occa-
sion and the man who thinks that it is
perfectly okay to use their drunken-
ness as an excuse to grope a woman's
behind on a Friday night. But charac-
terizations that only recognize vio-
lence after the worst-case scenario
occurs allow socially acceptable
forms of violence togo unnoticed and
unpunished.
Andrea Dworkin, an author and
activist, once said she believed "in
the humanity of men against all the
evidence." Color me optimistic. I
believe in the humanity of men who
have been physically violent, no mat-
ter how deeply buried that human-
ity may be. We have gone to a very
dark place when we say that there
are crimes people can commit that

rob them of their ability to rehabili-
tate. Faith in rehabilitation is not in
opposition to the often-reported high
relapse rates of violent offenders.
It simply hopes to envision a world
where people aren't doomed to be
battered or a batterer after one act of
violence has occurred.
Exploring
social norms in
relationships
But it all starts with us. We may
win brownie points in our social net-
works by polarizing the debate and
making it about how much we can
stick it to domestic violence offenders
in the public eye. But these actions
don't get women any closer to heal-
ing, men any closer to questioning
their sexism on multiple levels or our
society any closer to rethinking con-
flict resolution in partnership. These
constructive activities aim to stifle
violence and lead us on the path to
healthy relationships.
When pursuing healthy relation-
ships, these gender social norms
are highly problematic because they
often imply gender is destiny and that
behaviors can't be changed.
Violence can happen in relation-
ships and is harder to escape and pre-
vent for some more than others. But
we should be reminded that beyond
our political affiliations or gender
loyalties, we are responsible for our
own growth and development after
the storm.
- Rose Afriyie is the Daily's sex
and relationships columnist. She can
be reached at sariyie@umich.edu.

0

0

{
dry

0

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its own future on campus, the Daily would
like students to voice their opinions on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU


T h i e D hT

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 19, 2009 - 5A

Blue ready to start dancing in Kansas City

By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
He's never been there before, but
he's notnervous.
DeShawn Sims doesn't get ner-
vous. Well, at least not before
and during games. And when the
Michigan men's basketball team,
the No. 10 seed in the South region,
faces No. 7 seed Clemson in the first
round of the NCAA Tournament
tonight, Sims won't be worried.
But on Sunday, while waiting for
Michigan's name to be announced
during the selection show, the
junior forward felt more nerves
than he has all season. There were
no more shots he could make that
could change the Wolverines' out-
come. It was out of his hands. He
just had to sit and wait.
"They were going to make us
wait," Sims said. "We haven't been
there in 11years. Theytried to tease
us a little bit. It's just fortunate we
were still able to get in."
When Michigan's name was
finally announced, Sims jumped

into the arms of his teammates. At
that moment, it didn't matter what
team Michigan
faced in the first Clemson vs.
round. Mich n
The feel- igt.f
ing lasted just Matchup:
a few moments Clemson 23-8;
before reporters Michigan 20-13
swarmed the When: Thurs-
players, inquir- day 7:10 PM
ing about they Where: Kansas
knew about the City, Mo.
24th-ranked TV/Radio: CBS
Tigers, who fin-
ished fifth in the Live Blog:
Atlantic Coast http://thegame.
Confeence. blogs.michigan-
Conference. daily.com
Behind a
group of media
pushing its way to interview Sims,
fifth-year guard C.J. Lee yelled,
"ACC, we'll take it."
Sunday night, exuberance filled
Crisler-Arena as the Wolverines'
celebrated making the tournament.
But Michigan coach John Beilein
isn't content with just making the
Big Dance.

"Every opponent you have at this
time is going to be a tough oppo-
nent," Beilein said. "I don't care
what seed you are, it is going to be
a tough opponent. Clemson is no
different. But we aren't pleased just
to be there, we are going to do our
best to win the game."
Beilein said he has spent the last
few days breaking down film of the
Tigers. At Monday's press confer-
enceBeileinsaid histeamwill need
to take care of the ball to counteract
the Tigers' full-court press.
Clemson averages 17.3 forced
turnovers per game, due in large
part to its defensive strategy.
"Against a team like this, if you
turn it over they are going to get
easy baskets," Beilein said. "But
when they do press you, you do
have more open court to work with
to get open shots."
Sophomore guard Kelvin Grady,
who hasn't played more than 10
minutes in a game since Feb. 26
againstPurdue, could see increased
playing time because his skills are
well-suited to break the press.

The Wolverines have mixed
resulfs against the press this sea-
son. In the last 23 seconds of regu-
lation at Northwestern, Michigan's
guards coughed up the ball three
times against a trap press. It almost
cost the Wolverines the game.
Two weeks later, Michigan tore
apart Minnesota's full-court press,
which led to open shots for Wolver-
ine sharpshooters.
A key to many of Michigan's
biggest wins this season has been
knocking down open 3-pointers.
The Wolverines shot over 40 per-
cent behind the are in big wins over
Duke, Illinois, Purdue and both
times against Minnesota.
Even if Michigan doesn't shoot
the ball effectively, its-distinct style
of play could give Clemson fits.
"Our style is so unique, with
the 1-3-1 and the zone," fifth-year
senior guard David Merritt said.
"Especially if you've never played
against it and don't have a lot of
time to prepare for it, we could be
trouble, and hopefully, that will be
the case."

Junior beShawn Sims is averaging 15.7 points per game going into the Tournament.


ICE HOCKEY
Undersized and under the radar,
Langlais shines on offensive end

Sophomore a finalist
for CCHA's offensive
defenseman award to
be handed out today
By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
He's 5-foot-8 and weighs 180
pounds. That's eight inches short-
er and 30 pounds lighter than
senior captain and NHL first-
round draft pick Mark Mitera.
He's from Spokane, Wash.,
which is better known for being
the home of basketball power-
house Gonzaga than producing
solid hockey players.
And he's undrafted in the NHL
and played an atypically long
four years of high school hock-
ey before jumping to the much
more competitive United States
Hockey League.
All of that means nothing when
you look at the season sopho-
more defenseman Chad Langlais
has had.
Langlais leads the Michigan
hockey team's defense in scoring
and plus-minus rating with 23
points (five goals, 18 assists) and a
plus-29 rating. The next best blue-
liner in those categories? Junior
captain Chris Summers, an NHL
first-round pick, who has 17 points
and a plus-22 plus-minus rating.
And that's not at all evident in
his quiet persona.
"He's a guy that he kind of fools
you with his easygoing (person-
ality)," said Michigan coach Red
Berenson. "It's like some of those
running backs that ... hardly look
like they can even walk. Then they
get the ball and nobody can catch
them. Langlais has got a little bit
of that."
Though Langlais is a small
defenseman, Wolverine assis-
tant coach Billy Powers said that
"pound for pound, he's very strong
and he's hockey strong." He's dif-
ficult to push off the puck, which

Berenson, referring to the second-
leading all-time scorer amongst
American NHL players. "Housley
was a terrific player. He looked
like a forward playing defense.
So we moved him up to forward,
he wasn't very good. Moved him
back to defense, he was great.
"My experience is not to ever
fool with a kid like this. He's
made his mark being this kind of a
player."
And "this kind of player" is just
what Berenson likes having back
on defense.
With three forwards typically
cycling in the zone against five
opposing skaters, it's important
to be able to generate offense
from the blue line, which Langlais
does well.
"That's what we want from all
our 'D', "Berensorn'said. "Not just
points, but you want them to help
the forwards create offense when
we have the puck. So let's move
it, let's get open, let's get shots
through, let's make the right play
with the puck."
And even though Langlais
came to Michigan as a 21-year-old
freshman after two seasons in the
USHL, Berenson is confident he
still hasn't reached his full poten-
tial.
"The one thing with older kids
- sometimes they don't get any
better," Berenson said. "But he's
getting better and that's the good
thing. His game is still growing.
"I think his next two years, that
should be his coming-out party, if
it isn't already started."

Slow start trips up'M'
By NICK SPAR which had the highest full-round
Daily Sports Writer score of any team that completed
the round before play was suspend-
Michigan men's golf coach ed due to darkness.
Andrew Sapp called it "embarrass- Senior co-captain Bill Rankin led
ing". Michigan in the finaltwo days, post-
At the end of the first round of the ing team-low scores in each of the
three-day Pinehurst Intercollegiate last two rounds. Rankin and senior
in Pinehurst, N.C., No. 36 Michigan co-captain Nick Pumford finished
- the second highest-ranked team tied for 22nd individually.
inthe field of20 -straggled to a dis- "The fact is, we got beat, and it
appointing 18th-place finish. By the doesn't matter who we're compet-
end of the three-round tournament, ing against," Rankin said. "All in all,
the Wolverines managed to climb this definitely wasn't good enough,
back into a tie for ninth. even though we're going to try to
Sapp, whose Wolverines have draw as many positives aswe can."
followed up a second-place perfor- The Wolverines' inability to sink
mance at the Big Ten Match Play putts in the last two events contin-
Championship with consecutive ues to be a pressing issue. In Pine-
ninth-place finishes, blamed just hurst, each of the Wolverines shot a
one person for the poor finish. bogey or worse for two consecutive
"We just played very uninspired holes at least once during the three
golf," Sapp said. "I guess I have to rounds. Meanwhile, just Rankin
point the finger at myself if that's and Pumford strung together con-
the case because I didn't do what- secutive birdies. Sapp attributed
ever it takes to get the guys pumped this negative trend to his team's
up to rip and ready to play." weak putting.
The tournament field included "They need to make some more
three Big Ten foes - Penn State, No. putts, and they need to stay focused,"
34 Michigan State, and Minnesota - Sapp said. "When you're not play-
who finished first, second and third ing well, and you make a bogey or a
in the tournament, even though all double bogey, often times you try to
three finished behind Michigan at press too much to get it back."
the Big Ten tournament on Feb. 13. Michigan's short game will be
The Wolverines finished 29 shots tested again at its next tournament
behind the Nittany Lions. on Mar. 27 at the FAU Spring Break
Weather was a factor throughout Championship. Sapp hopes the
the week, especially on the first day recent warm weather in Ann Arbor
of the event in Pinehurst, N.C., as willgive thecteam achance tosharp-
rain and wind hindered play. The en its short game during the 10-day
rain certainly affected Michigan, layoff before heading to Florida.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Chad Langlais leads Michigan blueliners in scoring and plus-minus rating.

has helped Langlais become one
of Michigan's key offensive sparks
when skating or passing the puck
out of the team's defensive zone.
And it's also why he's a finalist for
the CCHA's offensive defenseman
award, which will be handed out
this evening.
"He's got the hands of any for-
ward in this league," said junior
defenseman Steve Kampfer, who
played alongside Langlais nearly
all of last season. "His stick han-
dling is unbelievable. The way he
skates, the way he can move up
there is second to none."
Langlais's unquestionable
offensive skill has led to him play-
ing point on the Wolverines' top
power-play unit since he arrived
in Ann Arbor .a couple of seasons
ago.
In Michigan's first CCHA play-
off game on Friday night, Langlais
notched a power-play goal and an
assist late in the game.
But the numbers he's put up of
late - three goals and four assists
in six games - aren't just the
product of playing on the power

play, which can often be statisti-
cally rewarding for defensemen
who start cycling the puck from
the point and can get easy assists.
Langlais has 11 even-strength
points and 12 while playing with
the man advantage this season.
Because of this, there's an
understandable inclination to
want to see how Langlais would
play forward, but Berenson knows
better from his assistant coaching
days in the NHL.
"He looks like a forward play-
ing defense, but I remember hav-
ing Phil Housley in Buffalo," said

-Congrats!
January 18th-March 28th TIP: When printing
presentations, use
.ni the handout for-
U-M placed 2nd in the Big mat, it saves paper
Ten for total recycling! and saves room in
your binder.
But 115th overall in per capita recycling!
SO COME ON, MICHIGAN!
INCREASE YOUR RECVCLING!
University of Michigan Waste Management Services
www.recycle.umich.edu


- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROCES"
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
In residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
FRANCE
May 18 - June 12, 2009
FourWeeks/Four Credits
Satisfies the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
you are in rested, please contact Mary Schmidt, maryanna@umich.edu, for more information
aking creativity an integral part of students' lives and work.
ONEARTH
Learn more now- www.artsonearth.org/students E
This course is supported by the University of Michigas
Multidisciplinary Learning andTeTeaching Initiative


6A- Thursday, March 19, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

tSR A N " H

1 BDRM. CONDO 2317 Packard.
VERY clean, new appl, quiet area. Bus
stop out front, pool in rear. $68,000 or
offer. 734-930-0200 or 734-474-0978.
99 FORD RANGER pickup, 118k
miles, runs excellent, clean
can be seen in U/M stadium lot. $3000
474-0978.
pafking
025
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACESAVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
fo r fent
060
? 4 ELEVEN Lofts ? - win FREE
HOUSING for a year. - Just tur the
model as 400 E.Washington (@ Dlvi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter or call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
Apartments Available!

COUPON WITH EVERY NEW TOUR
UNTIL THEY'RE GONE
*REDUCED RATES ON2 BEDROOMS*
We offer many amenities such as:
FREE Wireless Internet
FREE Food Every week
Workout room, Outdoor Pool,
Study Lounge, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, 24 attended Lobby,
Great Maintenance, Free Rentals
Free Heat and Water included
with every apartment
STOP BY TODAY AND FIND
OUT MORE DETAILS ABOUT
OUR LATEST SPECIALS.
YOU'LL SEE WHY WE'RE
STILL #1
University Towers Apartments_
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.un iverstytwers-mi.com
Universit
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! This special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're
gone! universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood fnoor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
1 BDRM. & EFFAPTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Fun. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
**AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Avail.
Fall 09. On Dewey, near Yost Arena.
offstreet prkg, Indry. ($1500/mo.).
734.223.7777.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
I & 2 Bdrm. fain. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313f5. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
W ilsonWhite

CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
Itt Q

www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201
" AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnishedptwo bedruom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. -Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water;no'
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.

4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE, 502 Benamin. I
bats basement, wshr./dryer, tree laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4iVarsity
Management
625 Churchst .
(734) 668-1100
We'vegot nice, sunny,orge apartments,
and unlike the other's, we include utilities
and parking for most locations!
Studios, 1,2 & 3 bedrooms still avalable
wwwvarsitymanagement.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms,, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housingto hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with oar rental agent. Ask for PaL.
663-4101.
7 BDRM FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
(......i etsff( FHicri_ - :ne )xkfrom Campu.
Cal Brian Tomic
734-663-1530
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, t & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
WWW.SOOFULLERCOM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots .of.Amenities!.
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
areen space, or a sparklina

5 Bedrooms

611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $15,000
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
= $16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Cuntact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomreaty.com for details.
EHO.
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.
Classifieds1


I
6

FREE Workshop Friday, March 20th 4 to 6 pm
U of M Michigan League- Kalamazoo Room
Dream Experts share their Secrets
Michael and Nicole Sebastian 323-354-2676 www.TrustYourself.ty
"The Dream Team" gives a powerful and entertaining interview! By the end oftthe interview
your audience will be convinced that "The Dream Team" has all the answers! The Phone
lines were jammed! -Lila Lazarus FOX2
1 Dream Technique to Overcome Insomnia and Anxiety- NO RX
How to Find your Soul Mate through Dreams Do Dreams Reveal Your Feature?
Interpret Any Dream in 3 Easy steps Nightmares ARE Good For You!!!
3 Steps to Makethe Right Choice and Neverget Buned Again How to Program Your Dreams
Got a Problem? Just Sleep On It! Why that Recurring Dream is Important
FEATURED ON: A&E, Sirius Satellite Radio, El Entertainment, XM Radio, VH1
RELEASE DATE- Thursday, March 19, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

0

ACROSS
1 Iron-clad?
7 Future J.D.'s
hurdle
11 Former
14 Marcos's
successor
15 Chichn
Mayan ruins
16 Abu Dhabi's fed.
17 Pay for a year's
deliveryof, say
19 Country singers
Hemndon and
England
20 Kind of press
21 Caen's rie
22 NYSE
newsmakers
23 "Are yo ou atT'
24 Ubiquitous 3M
product
26 Clinches
28 Goal-oriented
activity?
28 Yahoo!
rampetitor
30 '30s V.P. John _
Garner
34 1814treaty site
35 Tum in, perhaps
using items
hidden in 17-, 24-,
48- and 07-
Across
37 Drummers pair
of cymbals
40 Hunter in the
shallows
41 Novelist Buntline
44 Bother
incessantly
46 Undergo diffusion
48 Museum
holdings
52 Dog star
53 First name in
mystery
54 Stow in a hold
55 Staggering
56 Heavily financed
cnrp. takeover
57 "io Rea"rastar,
1929
59 Blotto
60 Biographer Leon
61 Ringlike parts
62 Peter, Paul and
Mary: Abbr.
63 Elders' teachings
64 Salts


DOWN 33 Marketclosing? 43 Trades, as goods
1 Mussolini's 35 Ethan of 45 City in Spain
movement "Training Day" 47 Berth place
2 Lippizaner and 36 Laugh-a-minute 49 Name on a pencil
Percheron 37 "Men Like Gods" 50 Fred's dancing
3 Post-exercise author sister
treat 38 Out of this world? 51 Chianti, e.g.
4 Steplike 39 "__ Ghost": 55 Last Stuart
platforms 1991 Mailer novel queen
5 Expand: Abbr. 41 Gnat 57 Antwerp's
6 Oneofttwo Bib. 42 Getty of "The country: Abbr.
books Golden Girls" 58 Battery buys
7 Barcelona book
8 Surgical tube ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
9 San Diego State
athletes D S IL D E I F Y ATV S
10 Lao-tzu prnciple EKE A L C 0A T R I E S
11 Surpass in C Y B E R P U N K H I T AT
development A L A S K A DOME A H A
13 Course shunned U N O F O O MAR I N E
by losers?
18 World games RENAL RUSE ANTS
org. MOUNT HOOD
22 Likemsome trigger A L D O SEER Z E B R A
24 Passd anklewear HA NGSTOUGH COLD
25 Navajodwellings I N T R O B B A P O G E E
27 Baltimore NFLer L E I C A GOO N S Q U A D
called "The ERN ! E YANKS ESO
Golden Arm"
31 Degree in math? SEAL NTEST SEN
32 "Evita" narrator xwordedltor@aolcom 3u19Mo
14 1s 16
17 18 19 1
20 21 22
23 24 2s5
26 27 26
29 30 31 32 33 34
37 38 39 40 41 42 43
44 45 46 47
48 49 50 51 s2
53 54 55
56 57 58
62 63 64
By Ernie Lampert 01M
(c)2W0 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

6

611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
Up cale bedroom
apartments 06 I I
Churc6! Tekeg are
newm) constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bat6
apartments, wvt[ all
tA? btest anclqreatest
anminiti/iOs, lie a
waser and drger in
unit!

Deadline for lne ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publicatiOr

n.

Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional cOnsecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact Our staff for details * Students may receive a25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid Student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing prvileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
I day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 80 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050- Furnture
060 - For Pent
070 - Sublet
080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Chid Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
160 - Pets

40

4 lines

39.40 431

60

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
TMD for failure to publish an advertisement for any reason, or for publshing incorrect ads in a specified issue
shal be limited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
wi be responsibe for classified advertisement errors only inified by 5:00 pm on the first day of pubication.
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled eding date. Refunds:
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadline, but no refundwil be given unless the ad has not yet
been published. Refusal: Al ads are subject to editing and approval We do not publsh advertisements for
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to
accepting advertising.

,t

0

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 19, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 19, 2009 - 7A

ing cuts - Princeton University
ENDOWMENT recently announced it could trim
From Page 1A as much as $82 million from the
next fiscal year's budget - the
The University of Michigan has University of Michigan has large-
experienced similar difficulties. ly shielded itself from the imme-
Here, the school's endowment has diate impact of the financial
temporarily lost about 17 percent crisis, and is poised to weather
of its June 30 value, down to $6.3 the ongoing financial storm bet-
billion from $7.6 billion, according ter than most.
to a March investment report filing So far, the University's capital
made by University Chief Invest- projects are progressing on sched-
ment Officer Erik Lundberg and ule, and no major budget cuts, lay-
Chief Financial Officer Timothy offs or hiring freezes have been
Slottow. announced.
And that $6.3 billion figure uses Looking back on the lucrative
values for the endowment's illiq- years preceding the financial cri-
uid assets from Sept. 30 - illiquid sis, smart investing decisions and
investments that are likely worth foresight on the part of the Uni-
much less now. Lundberg estimat- versity's investment team appear
ed in a recent interview that the to have gone a long way toward
endowment has likely lost 20 to 25 protecting the endowment and
percent of its value so far this fiscal the money it pays out to University
year, which began on July 1, and colleges, schools, departments and
could end the fiscal year with total other operations from the worst
losses in that same range. financial crisis since the Great
But while other universities Depression.
have been forced to make spend-
the michigan daily

AVOIDING THE SUBPRIME
CONTAGION
The cause of the current eco-
nomic meltdown can largely be
attributed to the subprime mort-
gage crisis and the bursting of
the housing bubble in 2007. Dur-
ing this time, years of high-risk
lending practices came to bear
as mortgage delinquencies and
foreclosures soared and subprime
mortgage-backed securities tum-
bled in value.
"It started as a credit crisis -
it was small," Lundberg said in a
January interview at his downtown
Ann Arbor office. "And now we've
ended up with a full-blown credit
crisis."
But whereas other colleges and
universities had significant invest-
ments in the kinds of mortgage-
backed securities that lost so much
of their value, University investors,
Lundberg explained, chose not to
invest very much in those securi-
ties.

"We chose not to invest in those,
because we didn't think the reward
associated with the risk was worth
it. We didn't get paid enough for
taking that risk," he said. "So we
steered away from the subprime
(mortgage-backed investments)
and a lot of these spread products,
and focused the investments other
places."
As the financial crisis has grown,
the damage inflicted by the sub-
prime crisis has spread throughout
the financial world like a contagion,
crippling many other investments.
And the University's endowment,
Lundberg conceded, has not been
completelyimmune from its effects,
given the breadth of investments
comprising the endowment.
Nonetheless, the University
investment team's decision not
to sink significant amounts of
money into doomed subprime
mortgage-related investments has
in part prevented the endowment
from suffering more losses than it
already has.

A SHIELD AGAINST
FINANCIAL VOLATILITY
The smartest and more prescient
move made bythe investment team,
University officials and Investment
Advisory Committee members say,
was changing how the endowment
pays out money to University col-
leges, departments, schools and
other campus operations.
Just over twoyears ago, the Uni-
versity paid out5 percent of its total
value each year to University oper-
ations, and it calculated that payout
amount using a three-year average
value for the endowment, meaning
it took into account three years'
worth of endowment values when,
determining how much to pay out
to University operations.
But around that time Lundberg
suggested to Chief Financial Offi-
cer Slottow that the average value
of the endowment used to calculate
the payout should be extended from
three years to seven years.
A rolling payout using a seven-
year average value for the endow-
ment, Lundberg explained, would
better take into account market vol-
atility, and ensure that the annual
payout to academic departments
would remain steady. In other
words, the seven-year payout would
help to better compensate for spikes
- either up or down - in the mar-

IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.-
PICTURE THIS...FREE 42" Flat
Screen yours to keep! Sign today, 909
Church "The Abbey". Limited Time-
Offer expires Friday March 20th-Call
for details. 734-761-1000. primesh.com
*Certain conditions apply
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most mcl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms, avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
TIRED OF SEARCHING for your
apartment or house? Wilson White
Management offers One Stop Shopping
with hundreds of apartments and
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing
agents are ready to help you the perfect
place to call home on campus. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all
lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 134-944-2405.
tr' o e the Dljfyl
r
PGPPMTY MRYA R
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.

Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

FABULOUS BRAND NEW 6 bdrm.
apts avail. June 2009. Hardwood floors
in living area, granite countertops, all
stainless steel appliances, 2 full-size
fridge, I-pod stereo system, closed-cir-
cuit entry viewing, wshr./dryer, add.
storage, parking avail. Call (734) 995-
0600 or (734)-668-8888 for an appt.
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in ahquaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehseng@comcast.net
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320B. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime
spot. Heat and water mcl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2040;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
FREE SUBLET FINDER, studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H2/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
services
080 d
DELICIOUS TREATS
DELIVERED - To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
NEED HELP WITH programming in
MATLAB and STATA. Will pay if I
can afford your rates. Please write to
sarkar.vanorder@gmail.com.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

hel p'IC wanted
GRILL SERVERS WANTED. Stone-
bridge Golf Club, A2. Apr. through
Oct. Call 734-429-8383.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.

ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required.Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PRO SHOP WORKERS needed. Golf
knowledge required. Stonebridge Golf
Club, Ann Arbor. April through Oct.
Call 734-429-8383.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
SEASONAL GROUNDS CREW
workers needed for Stonebridge Golf
Clab, Ann Arbor. April-Sept. Call 734-
323-8790.
UNDERGRAD & MBA admission es-
says wanted, Will pay up to $65/appli-
cation package. www.buymyessays.
bus fate again?1
bus
stop
why not do the
croooword puzzle
while you wait?

II _ymket much better than a three-year
period because it uses many more
endowment values.
And with a seven-year payout,
those receiving funds from the
endowment could count on a certain
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this amount of funding each year and not
Summer - Make life long friends. The have to adjust their budgets depend-
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail- EYE DOCTOR
able. Ca 1Ryan 1(800)626-6304. From Page 1A
wwwet& eislandhouse "Eye care is a verygood specialty
for this kind of work because much
of what we do is surgery," Monte
said, "and many times with a single
operation we can cure a blinding
eye problem or straighten crooked
, T AV E eyes or do something very impor-
tant that will prevent blindness."
Duringthis trip, in addition to per-
Book your flight to Europe forming surgeries on local patients,
Monte helped teach Peruvian doc-
for the summer during tors new skills and techniques.
March, and get your 1st Before the Flying Eye Hospital
hostel night free! arrived,thelocaldoctors pre-select-
ed 28 patients with specific eye
STA Trace!, Inc. problems about which they want-
Ann Arbor MI48109 ed to learn more. Everyone then
T (734) 769.2555 examined the patients together and
UMI@statravel.com picked nine who would be good for
surgical teaching purposes.
Monte said the intent is to cure
announCements the patient's eye problems, while
demonstrating tolocal doctors "how
to do a certain kind of an operation
better or maybe a new operation
SOXALOT.COM that they have never done."
Socks and Such with Each of the four volunteering doc-
sophistication & whimsy tors on the mission - hailing from
around the country - were assigned
perf sonaltwo Peruvian pediatric eye doctors.
"They would alternate scrubbing
in with us on cases, and they were
right there when we were doing
examinations," Monte said.
A BABY IS OUR DREAM. Monte performed two surgeries
Help fill our home with laughter andi.
love! We are young, happily married & in the operating room in the back of
hoping to be parents. We care about the plane, which were videotaped
you, please call us anytime. Toll free and shown to a classroom full of 30
(177) 533-3117. Erin and Tim. local doctors and residents in the
front ofthe plane.He also performed
Horoscope_ five surgical operations in the local
I I I I * eye hospital, with local doctors and
nurses present to observe how to
perform new techniques.
During free time in the after-
SCORPIO noons, Monte and the three doctors
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21) gave lectures pertaining to their
Because you're gung-ho to get a lot specialties. While Monte taught
done, make big plans. Give yourself the
right tools and support equipment to do a about pediatric eye muscle prob-

ing on the ups and downs of the mar-
kets - acrucial componentfor annual
budgeting in an academic setting.
When asked why he decided to
institute a longer rolling payout,
Lundberg said he saw the period
of high returns before the onset of
the financial crisis as an opportu-
nity to be proactive and protect the
endowment for the future.
"In good times, you get very
large increases year over year in
spending, and then when markets
go down you have (spending) cuts
the following year - we saw some
of that in the tail end of the tech
bubble (in 2000 and 2001)," he
said. "And so finding an opportu-
nity to make the change is when
the markets go up, because you
will have an increase in spending
anyways, and then you can take
action then.
"You know," he added, "just kind
of being proactive."
More than anything, the Uni-
versity's rolling payout has shield-
ed the school from the painful
budget cuts taking place at other
prominent colleges and universi-
ties, many of which, like Texas
Tech University and the Univer-
sity of Texas at Austin, use three-
year rolling payouts to calculate
their endowment payouts.
Still, like many other college
and university endowments, the
University's will surely end the
2009 fiscal year having suffered
significant losses across all its
assets.
And only when credit begins to
flow more freely in the global finan-
cial markets will endowment per-
formances pick up once again.
lems, other specialists discussed
glaucoma and retina diseases.
Monte's son, Derek del Monte,
also volunteered on the medical
mission. A University undergradu-
ate and Medical School alum, Derek
volunteered onthemissionas aresi-
dent physician.Besides helping with
pre-op and post-op care, Monte
taught the local doctors Western-
style cataract surgery techniques
using donated pigs' eyes.
Derek said he loved working
with his father and watching the
joy it brought him to help others.
"In medicine, a lot of who you
become istherolemodelsyouhave,"
Derek said."I think he's an excellent
role model. He's making me into the
doctorI hope to be one day."
TheelderMonte alsovolunteered
with the Flying Eye Hospital last
spring when he traveled to Da Nang,
Vietnam along with nine other doc-
tors from Big Ten schools.
He said his work helps build a
global prospective for the Univer-
sity and contributes to the global
reach program which encourages
medical students and faculty to do
international work.
"It also provides for me an oppor-
tunity to learn how medical care is
delivered in Peru, and before then
Vietnam, and before that Spain and
all over the world," Monte said. "I
can bring some of their ideas back
and help with the teaching of our
residents."
He said it's also important to
participate in medical missions and
help those who don't have access to
good medical care like people do in
the United States.
"In these developing countries
there's nobody else that can do this
(kind of work)," Monte said, "and if
I didn't go there, or somebody like
me, these patients would never get

these kind of blindness-prevent-
ing surgeries or the local doctors
wouldn't learn how to do (proce-
dures) on future patients."


For Friday, March 20, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Finally! It's your turn to recharge your
batteries for the rest of the year. In the
next four weeks, put yourself first. Yay
me!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Because your birthday is just a month
away, give yourself some private
moments to think about what you want
your new year (birthday to birthday) to
be all about. What do you want to hap-
pen?
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
The next six weeks are unusually pop-
ular for you. Join classes, clubs and
organizations. Accept all invitations.
Enjoy the company of others.
CANCER
(June 21tto July 22)-
This is the only time all year when the
Sun acts like a spotlight on you. This is
why others, especially important people,
notice you.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
In the month ahead, grab every oppor-
tunity to travel and explore new ideas,
new places and meet new faces. You're
hungry for adventure!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You're going to feel passionately
intense about many things in the next
month. This includes shared property as
well as hot and heavy romance.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Get more sleep in the coming month,
because the Sun is now far away from
your sign. Because it is the source of
energy, you need more rest and healthy
food.


bang-up job. You can become better
organized in the next six weeks..
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
What a fun-loving month ahead to
look forward to! Plan for a vacation.
Enjoy sports activities, playful times
with children, the arts, movies, music
and love and romance!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Your attention now turns to home,
family and real estate matters.
Discussions with parents or family
members could be significant in the
month ahead.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Fasten your seatbelt! The next six
weeks will be full of short trips, running
errands, talking to neighbors and rela-
tives, plus increased reading and writing.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Because you're focused on earnings
and your possessions and your assets in
general, you want to feel on top of
things. You'll likely feel attached to
something you own.
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
are unusually talented and gifted. You
can explore the arts; nevertheless, you
also have a logical, rational, scientific
mind. You're both dreamy and realistic.
Many of you are drawn to music (song
and dance). It takes a while to find your
niche in the world. Make sure you allow
enough time in the coming year to study
and learn something important.
Birthdate of: Kathy Ireland, model;
SpikeLee, film director; David Thewlis,
actor.

One shy young man
discovers that virtue
rewarded unexpectedly
leads to a night of
adventure, with
hilarious consequences.

A comic opera in three acts
Music by Benjamin Britten - Libretto by Eric Crozier
University Opera Theatre - Directed by Robert Swedberg
University Philharmonia Orchestra conducted by Israel Gursky
Sung in English with supertitles
Mar. 19at7:30pm-Mar. 20 & 21 at 8pm
Mar. 22 at 2pm.Mendelssohn Theatre
Tickets $24 and $18 . Students $9 with ID
League Ticket Office- 734-764-2538 . www.music.umich.edu

a 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.



0

8A - Thursday, March 19, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

r

0

0


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com I Thursday, March 19,2009
woo vI r101W ,., 1;weekend
essentials
Mar.19 to Mar. 22
TELEVISION
Craig Ferguson, the
exaggeratedly Scottish
host of "Late Late Night
with Craig Ferguson,"
* has a new stand-up
special called "Craig
Ferguson: A Wee Bit
0' Revolution" airing
Sunday on Comedy
Central at 10 p.m. The
" t humor should be a wee
bit of Scottish national
pride and a whole lot
of vulgarity as the
late-night host jokes
about his time in rehab
and his wild and less-
than-legal endeavors.
FILM
This Saturday, grab
your coconuts and
head over to the State
Theater at midnight for
a special presentation
of "Monty Python and
the Holy Grail." Recon-
nect with King Arthur,.
Brave Sir Robin, the
Black Knight and the
rest of the film's loony
cast as they bumble
around medieval Eng-
land in this comedy
classic. If you've never
seen this film before,
you should be tried
for witchcraft. Now go
away or I shall taunt
you a second time.
ON STAGE
4 You may not know it,

but Michigan's Musi-
cal Theatre program is
a really big deal. This
SI Saturday at 8 p.m., the
program celebrates its
25th anniversary with
a gala concert at Hill
Auditorium. Gradu-
ates will return from
their Broadway gigs
to join current stu-
dents in what's likely
to be an uproarious
evening of impossibly
catchy show tunes.
Tickets available at
the League; $9 to $35
BY ANDREW LAPIN // DAILY FILM EDITOR
elcome to the new world of suit filed by the AAFF and the Michigan sions to the festival this year (a 25-per- tival. Hertzfeldt, known for shooting all
independent cinema," pro- chapter of the American Civil Liberties cent increase from last year), which of his films using antique 35mm camer-
claims the tagline for the 47th Union successfully got the charges dis- were whittled down to the 125 films as, will also hold a question-and-answerCO ER
annual Ann Arbor Film Festival (AAFF). missed. screening in competition. Combined discussion after the screening. CO NCE RT
The choice of words seems odd, because Now, with that storm fading in the with the numerous out-of-competition Several programs at this year's AAFF
AAFF has been screening the cutting rearview mirror, it's time for filmmak- screenings and special events scheduled will explore the history and origins of
edge of experimental film since the fes- ers and festival directors to keep look- to take place between March 24 and 29, experimental film, highlighting the fact Looking to add some
tival's conception in 1963, smack in the ing ahead to see what cinematic ground even the most knowledgeable connois- that even the festival itself is on its own international music fla-
middle of a pivotal decade for indepen- has yet to be covered. Whenever there seurs of independent and experimental journey forward. Two separate retro- vor to your weekend?
dent films in America. The festival's are new boundaries to cross within the cinema are guaranteed to plunge into spectives of the late visionary director Head over to the EV
website bills the annual event as "the continuously evolving artistic medium, uncharted territories when they take a Bruce Conner ("A Movie") will also be t '
longest-running film festival of its kind no one wants to be left behind. gander at the programs offered by the screened, presenting a rare opportunity Moore Building at 3
in North America." Maybe today's film- "We're trying to make (our program) AAFF. to view the filmmaker's work, which is p.m. on Sunday for an
goers are being welcomed into this new as accessible as possible without sac- One of the most anticipated events not currently commercially available on Indonesian gamelan
world of cinema, but the AAFF settled rificing the artistic quality - without at the festival will be the appearance DVD or anywhere else. concert featuring
into the frontier long ago. watering down our programming what- of Oscar-nominated animator Don. Harrison is especially excited about
Perhaps that's what makes this year's soever," said Donald Harrison, executive Hertzfeldt, who will present the region- the Conner retrospectives, which he legendary Javanese
theme, a journey into unexplained ter- director of AAFF, at a press preview on al premiere of his latest short film "I am billed as a "must-see attraction." He musician Sumarsam.
ritories, so profound. In 2006, a cen- March 3. He added that the idea of this. so proud of you." The film is a sequel to noted that Conner's work is "for anyone Gamelan is known
sorship controversy over a handful of year's program is to make audiences feel his previous effort, "everything will be who cares about art, about important,
submissions jeopardized the festival's as if they are visiting a brand new place. ok," which won the Short Filmmaking intellectual artists, not just in terms of for its pronounced
state fundinguntil asuccessfuljointlaw- There were a record 2,650 submis- Award at the 2007 Sundance Film Fes- See FILM FESTIVAL, Page 4B rhythms and the
incredible synchro-
nization its perform-
ers display. Free.


4

2B - Thursday, March 19, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Today 3.19.09
Distinguished Visitors Series,
Marina Abramovic
At the Michigan Theater
Free
David Mason Poetry Reading
5 p.m.
At East Quad Auditorium
Free
Ari Heat
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$5
500 Years of American
Grapes arj Wines: A
Remarkable Journey
1 p.m.
At the William Clements Library
Free
Tomorrow 3.20.09
Albert Herring, University
Open Theater
8 pm.
At the Mendelssohn Theater
$9 with student ID
Playfest 09: The Windows on
Alcatraz
At the Walgreen Drama Center
Free
Saturday 3.21.09
Chinese Documentary Series:
"The Bird's Nest: Herzog and
de Meuron in China"
12 p.m.
At Angell Hall Aud. A
Free
Stearns Lecture: Gamelan
Instruments and Ensembles
Throughout History
2 p.m.
At Burton Memorial Tower, Room 506
Free
Misty Lyn & The Big Beautiful
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$15
Sunday 3.22.09
Musical Theatre 25th
Anniversary Gala Concert
8 p.m.
At Hill Auditorium
$9 w/ student ID
Gamelan Concert
3 p.m.
At E.V. Moore Building, Britton Recital Hall
Free
Please send all press releases
and event information to
arts@michigandaily.com.

,'
s_

You already fucking lost that new
goddamn tiny-ass iPod shuffle.
2:1
After the "Battlestar Galactica" series
finale ends, thousands of tear-stained
space suits pop up on eBay.
10:1
Reganbooks publishes Bernie Madoff's
fictionalized confession, "If I Did It."
80:1

'Ai

Nonstop ad campaign successfully
VOTmE spurns student body to actually vote in
MSA elections.
1,000,000,000:1
ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK

High five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five
answers to a curious question.
Sanford C. Bledsoe Jr.
Director of Marketing, Vault of Midnight
What are the five best graphic novels
for newcomers to the genre?
"Good-bye Chunky Rice": Craig Thompson won acclaim and awards for his
graphic novel "Blankets." His priorwork, "Good-bye, Chunky Rice" is an equally
beautiful and masterfully illustrated graphic novel about leaving behind every-
thing you know and love in search of personal growth and adventure. The story
of two best friends who are forced apart by time and tide, "Good-bye, Chunky
Rice," like all of Thompson's books, is a must read for anyone who has ever had
to say goodbye to someone they love.
"The Ultimates": Set in a non-canonical Marvel Comics universe, "The Ulti-
mates" is a very adult and very dark re-imagining of the Marvel Universe. Mark
Millar ("Wanted," "Superman: Red Son") puts a very modern, very political
twist on your favorite Marvel characters. Fans of the "300" and "Iron Man"
movies will eat this series up. Itthas been collected in two softcover trade paper-
backs, featuring action-packed artwork by Bryan Hitch.
"Kingdom Come": Alex Ross flipped the comic industry on its head with his
fully-painted interior artwork for "Kingdom Come." This is as iconic as super-
heroes get. Drawing heavily from religious imagery and the book of Revela-
tions, this is the tale of the second coming of Superman, forced into retirement
after Metropolis embraces a new breed of psychopathic superheroes. The war
between old and new heroes erupts as the Justice League reforms in the wake of
a disasterthat destroys much of the American Midwest. Twelve issues collected
in a single, affordable softcover volume.
"Umbrella Academy": Before becoming the front-man for the popular music
group My Chemical Romance, Gerard Way had dreams of creating comic books.
His dreams were realized in this Dark Horse Comics series. Influencedby some
of the best 'BOs British comic writers (Alan Moore, Grant Morrison), Way has
created an often absurd but deeply tragic family of science heroes (think "Royal
Tenenbaums" meets "Hellboy"). Currently an ongoing series, the first story arc
has been collected in a softcover graphic novel, with illustrations by extremely
talented newcomer Gabriel Ba.
"Criminal": For fans of "The Wire," "Sin City" and "The Sopranos." Current-
ly an ongoing series, written by Ed Brubaker and illustrated by Sean Phillips,
"Criminal" is pulpy crime-noir at its finest. Each of the story arcs (roughly five
issues each) features different characters - unwittingly bound together by
their criminal activities and connections - but each volume creates a greater
narrative of the seedy criminal underground that binds them. If you like heists,
double-crosses and shoot-outs, you'll like "Criminal." Also be sure to check out
their new series, "Incognito."

4

a

TILT G EN

I
I

Remember that old game you had in
your basement with the wooden board
and the metal ball and you had to tilt the
board to navigate the ball past all those
holes? Remember that time you thought
you had finally beaten it but that god-
damn second-to-last hole got you and
you cried yourself to sleep? This is that,
but on a computer. And less soul-crush-
ing.
Find it at:
http:// tinyuri.com/dn5gej

In some unexplained cellular world,
you need to help some little green circles
reach a bigger blue circle where they
presumably belong. Avoid hitting the
red clumps, which kill the green dudes.
Use the little guys to turn wheels, pull
levers and all that jazz. With several lev-
els, each requiring a different approach,
the game is a test of patience, precision
and problem solving.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/crgyyy


Finding Home
"...On earth as it is in heaven."
Find companionship, belonging, and affection
through a spiritual sense of home.
International speaker,
Ginny Luedeman,
a practitioner of Christian
Science healing, overcame
the effects of an abusive
childhood, drug use,
and divorce.
Sunday March 22, at 2:00 p.m.
Michigan League, Vandenberg Rm.
911 N. University Ave., Ann Arbor
Columbia's Summer Term offers a wide variety of undergraduate
and graduate courses for visiting students from across the nation.
The Summer Term offers fascinating, challenging courses taught by
Columbia and visiting faculty. Summer Term students have access
to a state-of-the-art student center, gym, and recreational facilities,
as well as one of the largest library collections in the nation.
SESSION ONE: May 26- July 3
SESSION TWO: July 6-August 14
SCOLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Summer Term 2009

LIKE THEATER?
Work for our Fine Arts staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu

a

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 19, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March19, 2009 - 3B

Finding a sense of
place in literature

Bear with me: A lot of undergrad-
uate students end up writing
theses to conclude the best four
years of our lives (college, supposedly).
But I completed
(and finally printed, .
bound and turned
in) my English the-
sis earlier this week,
and am only now
emerging from my
writing-induced
fog. The scruffy, KIMBERLY
unwashed types CHOU
wandering down
from Kerrytown or out of FedEx Kinko's
toward the bars Monday afternoon were
most likely not overenthusiastic students
getting a head start on St. Patrick's Day,
but members of the thesis cohort finally
emerging from the library and into the
true bliss of second-semester senior
year, blindly turning to the sunlight
after one last, brutal all-nighter, like the
cave dwellers of Plato's allegory.
Let me be indulgent with this column,
one last time. I am graduating soon,
from this university and from the Daily.
Don't worry. And OK, I'm not exactly
using this Plato allegory to its fullest
- I'm just borrowing its imagery. But
hopefully I'm not returning to the cave
of ignorance, or the cave-like basement
of Ambrosia for further line-editing of
hard copy drafts, anytime soon.
In my thesis, I explore how the par-
ticular socio-historical space that is
post-apartheid South Africa plays into
the narrative of J.M. Coetzee's novel
"Disgrace" as well as readers' volatile
reception of the novel in South Africa
and abroad.
"Disgrace" tells the story of a white
South African professor who, after hav-
ing an affair with a student (who can be
inferred to be non-white), loses his teach-
ing post and moves to his daughter's farm
in the country. Soon after he arrives, the
farm is attacked in a seemingly random
act of violence. Three black men rob the
house, assault the professor and gang-
rape the daughter. Since its publication
in 1999, discussion of the novel has been
dominated by issues of race and, more
specifically, accusations of racist writing,
with some of the strongest criticism of
the novel coming from Coetzee's South
African contemporaries.
I will spare you further detail about
my project, except to say that, perhaps
as an effect of spending so much time
preoccupied with the politics of place, I
found myself reading books for pleasure
that were also, in their own way, con-
cerned with place. Even if not dealing
with the politics of a particular time and
locale - implicitly or explicitly - the fic-
tion and non-fiction I've been drawn to

lately has made me rethink my concep-
tions of cities like New York, Beijing and
Los Angeles.
Some current favorites are below for
those of you also interested in writing
where the settingbecomes its own char-
acter (or also have abit more free read-
ing time at this point second semester.)
First up are "Miami," "Slouching
Towards Bethlehem" and essays on New
York and Los Angeles by Joan Didion
- Didion is a writer to whom I return
again and again, despite (or perhaps
because of) the demands she makes of
her readers by sharingthe most lovely
and uncomfortable moments of her
emotional life. Didion's prose is evoca-
tive enough that the anxiety of Howard
Hughes is palpable in just her descrip-
tion of his film'lot.
"Netherland," by Joseph O'Neill -
O'Neill's broken love letter to post-9/11
New York, told from the point of view
of a Dutch banker whose British wife
has (with their young son) left him and
his adopted city. There's more to it than
that (including cricket, the Chelsea
Hotel and childhood in The Hague), but
What happens
when a thesis leads
to a book list.
O'Neill's precise rationing of adjectives
in describing the commute into, out of
and around the boroughs and neighbor-
hoods by various modes of transporta-
tion was what won me over to a book I
wasn't prepared to love.
"Ask the Dust" by John Fante - For
those who love Charles Bukowski, a
writer whose work oozes L.A., note this:
Bukowski said of John Fante that he
"was my God." Written from the point
of view of Fante's alter ego, struggling
writer Arturo Bandini, the novel unveils
a particular experience of L.A. in the
1930s depictingthe professional and
romantic struggles of the protagonist.
"Beijing Coma" by Ma Jian - In his
fiction of a young man left in a coma
for 10 years afterbeingshot during the
crackdown on the student democracy
demonstrations in Tiananmen Square
in 1989, Ma Jian captures the sweaty
details of what went on in Beijing the
weeks before those photos of students in
the path of army tanks went around the
world.
Chou desperately wanted to give this
column footnotes. Tell her to get out of
thesis mode at kimberch@umich.edu

Crazy Wisdom is a new age bookstore located on Main Street.
Wise beyond its years

Crazy Wisdom has
been a local staple
since 1982
By SARA SCHNEIDER
Daily Arts Writer
Customers wait patiently out-
side until the doors are finally
unlocked at 11 a.m. One step into
Crazy Wisdom Bookstore & Tea
Room on Main Street and sooth-
ing tunes comfort the ears; the
scent of burning incense fills the
nose. Among the bookshelves
lie jewelry, candles, calendars,
incense andcards. Fromupstairs,
sounds of grinding coffee and
steaming milk invite custom-
ers to enjoy the quaint tearoom
above. Crazy Wisdom is a truly
Ann Arbor location whose new-
age offerings are losing their
outlandish feel in an increasingly
new age-accepting city.
While industries are mak-
ing organic living more acces-
sible to consumers, the gradual
shift toward holistic practices
is becoming a lucrative market.
Despite the increase in corporate
support for this lifestyle, the slow
change occurred thanks to local
businesses providing opportuni-
ties for new-age exploration even
when holistic practices were not
popular.
Originally opened in 1982,
Crazy Wisdom was bought by
current owners,husband and wife
Bill Zirinsky and Ruth Schekter,
in 1989. The shop moved to its
current Main Street location in
1999. The store exclusively hosts'
local events, provides holistic
products and publishes informa-
tion about holistic healing and
related topics through its journal

available at CrazyWisdom.net.
After 20 years of owning th
store, Zirinsky is aware of th
continual growth of the holisti
community.
"One way to think of th:
business is the outgrowth of
40-year process that began i
the '60s," Zirinsky said. "When
was a student at U of M in 197
there was a small food co-op, b
ideas about organic food, eatin
whole grains - those were ne'
ideas in the society. Thirty-seve
years later, you have hundred
of Whole Foods supermarkei
around the country."
Zirinsky continued, "Essen
tially, what was new, what wa
kind of nascent, what was a seei
has now sprouted."
Crazy Wisdom describes itse
as "a bookstore about conscious
ness." This once seemed strang
But in a town like Ann Arbor an
in a society that's now unafrai
of trying out new ideas, Zirinsk
knows the store is no longer a
"out there" as it used to be.
"What we are selling herei
no longer new or avant-garde o
cutting edge. It has really sprea
throughout the society," Zirin
sky said. "We see new customer
all the time who are in the fairl
early stages of their exploring."
Although naturalistic idea
appear to be spreading through
out society, many students sti
don't know places like
Crazy Wisdom exist
within their commu-
nity - even when it's
the student presence
that allows these busi-
nesses to thrive.
"We are a quintes-
sentially Ann Arbor
institution that could
exist only probably in

le
ie
is
is
a
in
I
1,
at
g
w
In
Is
is
r-
gs
d,
lf
s-
;e.
d
d
y
as
is
:r
d
a-
rs
y
as
h-
ill

major university towns around
the country," Zirinsky said. "I
think the reason is because in
a town like Ann Arbor you have
many, many people who are
interested in the kind of themes
that we are interested in."
Although Crazy Wisdom
has much to offer, Zirinsky and
Schekter understand, as Michi-
gan alums, how far away Main
Street feels for the student popu-
lation.
"I know that when I was a
student here at U of M, I didn't
have a car," Schekter said. "I did
have abike, but I didn't have that
much of a reason to come down
to Main Street. I wasn't on a
restaurant budget, and actually,
Main Street was much sleepier
than it is today. It felt far."
Realistically, it takes less time
to walk to Crazy Wisdom from
the Diag than it does to trek to
the Big House, but University
alum and local musician Alex
Greiner agrees that Crazy Wis-
dom's location proves to be a bit
of a hindrance for students.
"Crazy Wisdom is not terri-
bly well-known around campus,;
for though it be an ideal and
quaint study spot, it is quite a
hike from the Diag and the stu-
dent slums," Greiner said. "It is
well respected by locals, as well
as students who have ventured
so far north of Main Street's res-

taurant blocks."
Despite its distance, Main
Street is an important part of
the University's community. It
provides a location for venues
like The Ark. Included in this
scene is Crazy Wisdom, which is
often left untapped by students.
The store hosts numerous local
artists' readings in its tearoom,
providing an atmosphere unat-
tainable at most performance
venues.
"Crazy Wisdom is swim-
mingly cozy - earthy. With
the implied haze of incense in
the air, even the rare shriek of
steaming milk for a cappuccino
sounds muted and mellow,"
Greiner said. "The tearoom
offers artists a venue ripe for
storytelling with a snug audi-
ence, such as one might remem-
ber from their elementary
school librarian."
With such a diverse and com-
forting environment, Crazy
Wisdom rests as one of the land-
marks of true Ann Arbor culture.
It's more than just a bookstore or
teahouse; it's a community space
used by yogis, massage thera-
pists, psychics, artists and even
a local Alcoholics Anonymous
group. It's an atmosphere direct-
ly connected to the students
of Ann Arbor and the growing
organic-living craze conquering
the country.



Teachers of Color
Job Fair
Learn Meet Discover
about the faculty, the variety of
experiences students, and teaching
and benefits of administrators positions
teaching in an from Metro available in
independent Detroit and independent
school. Ann Arbor schools.
independent
schools. .
0<Xx^> Inspire 00000
April 4 2- 4:30 pm
http://tocif.greenhillsschool.org
Sponsored by the Assn. of Independent Michigan Schools
Hosted by Greenhills School, 850 Greenhills Dr., Ann Arbor
Car Repair
* CoLpetti6/e Pr'i-es
- RFe TaxI, baclezto OaKApVs
- EaoawiLtU owA ed - 30sbears
OT Professional
Hutomotine ProAutoTechs.com
. . Technicians 734.665.9707
The Driving Force in Auto Repair

S U -O- U


0

4B - Thursday, March 19, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


THE VAULT I THE REPLACEMENTS 'TIM' (1985)
An irreplaceable hit

4

The Michigan Theater is the venue for almost every Fi
FILM FESTIVAL
From Page 1B
film, but in terms of the last 50, 60 years of
art."
Even though the majority of Conner's work
was produced between the 1960s and '70s,
Harrison assured viewers that "his retrospec-
tive is going to be ... as cutting-edge today as
these films were when he made them."
Conner often employed stock film footage
as part of his work, and the idea of remix cul-
ture is another majortheme being played out
at the festival. Mark Hosler of the band Neg-
ativland, which gained notoriety in the early
'90swhenIslandRecordssued itforsampling
large portions of U2 songs in its work, willbe
on hand to show a multimedia presentation
called "Adventures in Illegal Art," which is
about the band itself. Hosler will also co-host
a panel discussion on the Fair Use law titled
"Remixing the Rules: Copyright & Fair Use."
In a demonstration of the interconnected-
ness of the film community, experimental
filmmaker Craig Baldwin, who made a doc-
umentary about Negativland called "Sonic
Outlaws" in 1995, will also be at the panel
discussion. During the festival, Baldwin will
screen and promote his latest film "Mock Up
on Mu," a conspiracy thriller that also uses
liberal amounts of pre-existing film strips.
Further contributing to the treatise on
copyright laws will be "RiP: A Remix Man-
ifesto," which is billed as the first "open
source" full-length documentary. "RiP"
follows the struggles of remix artists who
continually face uphill battles when trying
to create original work out of pre-existing
material, and it features well-known mash-
up DJ Girl Talk (Greg Gillis). The filmmakers
posted a rough cut of the movie on their web-
site and asked visitors to create their own
edits for it. These edits were then integrated
into the film itself, engaging the audience on
an entirely unique level that demonstrates

ilm Festival screening.
the idea of filmmaking as a constantly evolv-
ing process.
"RiP" is one of the few feature-length
films that will be screening in competition.
The majority of the other competing features
are short films that will be grouped together
into themed showcases, including a "Terra
Firma" program highlighting films with
Exploring the past,
present and future of
independent film.
feminist ideals and an "Out Night" program
that centers on LGBT issues.
Last year's hugely popular animation
category is back, this year dubbed "The
Animated Forest." Clearly it's a dangerous
forest; the description of the program comes
with a warning to "beware of what hides in
the woods."
"With animation you see a lot of films that
deal with very graphic - whether it's graphi-
cally funny or graphically violent - subject
matter in really creative techniques," Harri-
son said. He cautioned that many of the films
in the animation category will be very intense
and that the program is not for everybody.
Almost all screenings will be held at the
Michigan Theater, except for a midnight
movie ("The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle,"
featuringtheSexPistols) showingattheState
Theater. There will be a handful of lectures
at the Work Gallery and a music video show-
case at the newly renovated UMMA Stern
Auditorium. The festival's organizers also
intend to expand the scope of the festival far
beyond past years: Visitors can seek out an
"alternative walkingtour" of Ann Arbor and
an international film tour featuring selec-
tions from the festival, which is scheduled

to hit the road in June. Harrison pointed out
how these efforts fit into the theme of geog-
raphy and travel.
"We're going to do more to make it so
there's not things just happening at the
Michigan Theater," Harrison said, adding
that he's hoping local businesses will get into
the action as well. "You're going to see more
things happening throughout town."
The festival is sure to be a strange and
memorable journey through the land of
experimental film, as envisioned on the
"Super Mario World"-esque promotional
poster designed and illustrated by Eastern
Michigan University graphic design pro-
fessor Ryan Molloy. From March 24-29,
the Ann Arbor Film Festival promises to
stimulate minds and take audiences on a
journey through frontiers of cinema both
old and new.

By MIKE KUNTZ
Daily Arts Writer
A certain type of nostalgia usually
arises whenever The Replacements
are discussed. Someone will prob-
ably release a sigh of empathy and
disappointment - feelings for a band
that flirted with mainstream success
throughout the '80s but never quite
made it. To everyone rooting for the
band throughout the decade, The
Replacement probably seemed more
content to ruin its chances at success
than it was to gun for the mainstream.
Beginning in the Minneapolis hard-
core punk scene, The Replacements
quickly forged a name for themselves
with their rough delivery and alcohol-
fueled energy. With raw, youthful exu-
berance, frontman Paul Westerberg's
brilliant songwriting and the rising
popularity of similar-sounding college
radio favorites like R.E.M., it seemed
that the sky was the limit for the
famously inebriated band.
By the time 1985's Tim came out
on Sire records, the band had a slew
of rough-cut albums to their name -
most notably the classic Let it Be from
the year before. But Tim was the band's
most cohesive and best-written effort
to date, showcasing Westerberg and
the crew in their top form. The Kiss
covers and instrumental punk experi-
ments that had decorated their earlier
releases were abandoned for a collec-
tion of well-crafted songs and an ener-
getic chemistry that immediately cast
the band in a newly accessible light.
Westerberg was always at his best
when he interpreted the turbulent
and conflicting feelings associated
with teenage life, and Tim in particu-
lar showcases his knack for molding
it all into poignant and insightful lyr-
ics. The boyhood narrative of "Kiss
Me on the Bus" recalls the schoolyard
jitters of young love, supported by a
jangly chorus complete with sleigh
bells. The anthem-like and aptly
titled "Bastards of Young" speaks to
the post-Baby Boomers with lyrics
like "Unwillingness to claim us / We
got no war to name us." It emerges as
a bitter interpretation of young adult
life similar in style and sentiment of
Richard Hell & The Voidoids' "Blank
Generation."
Westerberg was as sarcastic as he
was charming, particularly with his
send-up to flight attendants in the

hilarious "Waitress in the Sky." In this
song, Westerberg's adolescentbrand of
humor fit perfectly with lead guitarist
Bob Stinson's loose-cannon playing.
Apart from Westerberg's clear evo-
lution in songwriting, Tim also showed
a leap in production, employing a
heavy dose of reverb to create a drea-
ry, late-night haze reminiscent of The
Smiths' Meat is Murder or The Queen
is Dead. The extra echoey boost coat-
ing each instrument's presence makes
the album sound like a touched-up live
recording. Westerberg's vocals and
guitars bleed together fantastically in
more upbeat numbers like "Hold My
Life" and "Left of the Dial," while qui-
eter moments in songs like "Swingin'
Party" and the barroom ballad "Here
Comes a Regular" give the listener a
breather.
More than anything, Tim is a por-
trait of the band when it was neither
too polished to be meaningful nor too
beer-soaked to be intelligible. Released
between the classic, albeit spottier Let
it Be and the somewhat porcelain and
misguided Pleased to Meet Me, the
seminal Tim was the most focused
The Replacements'
most balanced,
accessible album.
effort the band would ever produce.
Straddling both punk and 1950s rock-
abilly, the record's unique amalgama-
tion of rock influences set the stage
for the alternative music movement
of the 1990s, with Westerberg's influ-
ence in particular being felt through
acts ranging from Nirvana to Uncle
Tupelo.
Plagued by their antics both on and
off the stage, The Replacements are
easy to overlook - especially the hum-
ble genius surrounding of Westerberg.
With their in-the-moment intensity,
brutal honesty and unique charm, The
Replacements have created one of the
most genuine examples of rock music,
providing a musical standard for
bands ever since. With Tim, the band
cemented an admirable legacy, their
drunken snickers loomingcontentedly
left of the dial.

a

4

6

SHOPW SHL S OCOM
Elliot McalSasSli
Hard Ti o' en IehC1
Countrv LYe 9 Vni
Spen i C rrn illo M3
Jre u
SevenfrP-M niaT
Ella M s ihe tr
PeopeSLwHrdTi
Huma yClfri o
PankyLacose Lerrte
Toll-Free 877.629.4600!,,
WOMEN -0KIDS - TEENS


