BIG HOUSE TO BIG LEAGUES
After the Wolverines' disappointing season, Tim Jamison,
Terrance Taylor and Morgan Trent had a lot to prove at the
NFL Combine. See how they fared. U See Sports, Page 8.
jie ffiidigan haiy

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, March 3, 2009

michigandaily.com

MAIZE AND BLUE IN WHITES

UNIE TY HELT SYST
Pescovitz
tohead
UMHS
First female to serve as CEO of
$1.5 billion unit will take over
in May, if approved by regents
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily Staff Reporter
University President Mary Sue Coleman
announced today that she has named Dr. Ora Hirsch
Pescovitz as the University of Michigan Health
System's next CEO and executive vice president for
medical affairs.
Pescovitz will be the first wonman and third per-
son to serve as executive vice president and CEO of
UMHS, a position thiat was created in 1997.
Pescovitz's appointment is
contingent upon final approval
by the Board of Regents at its
monthly meeting on March 19.
If the regents approve Pescovitz
for the position, she will suc-
ceed Robert Kelch, who cur-
rently serves as executive vice
president and CEO nf UMHS, PESCOVITZ
and will begin her new position
on May 11. Kelch plans to retire
later this year.
Pescovitz is being offered $700,000 in base com-
pensation from May 2009 to September 2010. She
will also be eligible to earn up to $150,000 in per-
formance incentives and $100,000 in deferred com-
pensation each year. Pescovitz will only receive the
deferred compensation money if she stays at UMHS
'for at least five years.
In her position, Pescovitz will manage the Health
System, which includes the Medical School, School
of Nursing, Hospitals and Health Centers and the
Michigan Health Corporation. The Hospital and
Health Centers have an annual operating budget of
more than $1.5 billion.
See PESCOVITZ, Page 3

KtISTA tOYD/Daily
Art & Design freshman Lindsay Balfour and Engineering senior Bill Kolodzey square of during the University fencing team's practice yesterday. The team participated ina fencing tournament aver
spring break at Notre Dame that took place from Feb. 28 through March 1. The team ended up placing fifth out of the 20 schools that competed at the event.
FUNDING HIGHER EDUCATION
Coleman: timuluss impact undear

President told faculty
body that funding total
may not be known for
the next few months'
ByKYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
In a meeting yesterday, University
President Mary Sue Coleman said she's
not certain how much funding the Uni-
versity will receive from the stimulus

package, but said plans are underway in
case additional money is received.
While answering questions from
members of the Senate Advisory Com-
mittee on University Affairs, Coleman
said University administrators are cur-
rently working on next year's budget
and preparing for a possible influx of
money from the recently passed $787
billion federal stimulus package. How-
ever, Coleman said she is not certain if
any stimulus money directed to the state
will actually be given to the University.
"What I don't understand is whether
any money from the state ... will actually

come to universities, or will all of that
be reserved for K-12 or will that all be
reserved for infrastructure," she said.
Coleman said the University has
already proposed $300 million in pos-
sible capital projects at all of the Univer-
sity's campuses that could net stimulus
funds from the state. She added, though,
that the state hasn't released any funds
to the University for construction proj-
ects in several years.
Although many details remain
unclear, Coleman said if the state accepts
the federal stimulus money, one of the
stipulations of the bill is that Michigan

legislators mustagree not to cut the Uni-
versity's funding.
"If the state accepts the stimulus
money, the budgets of the University
cannot be cut below their 2008 levels,"
she said.
Coleman said while this is good news,
the University's funding is much lower
than in previous years, despite rising
cost factors like inflation.
"Not only have they not increased our
operating budget, it has been decreas-
ing,"shesaid."WhenIcameherein2002,
state allocation was about $365 million.
See COLEMAN, Page 3


ANN ARBOR GOVERNM ENT
City Council expands Greenbelt area

DISCUSSING KOREA'S DIVIDE

Mer
on,
for
Ann,
are now
Council

nbers table vote chase the development rights of
land in Webster Township at last
plastic bag ban night's meeting.
The cost to buy the land totaled
grocery stores just over $1.3 million. Funding for
the 146-acre purchase will come
By LARA ZADE from a combination of the city's
Daily StaffReporter Greenbelt funds, federal grants
and money from Webster Town-
Arbor's Greenbelt holdings ship. Taxpayers will contribute
146 acres larger after City less than 15 percent of the cost.
I voted unanimously to pur- Also known as the Open Space

and Parkland Preservation Mill-
age, Ann Arbor's Greenbelt District
is a program to provide funding
for the city to secure and preserve
undeveloped areas around the city
limits.
According to the city's official
Greenbelt website, the plan's three
primary goals of the plan are to
preserve large blocks of farm-
land in five target areas, preserve
land alongside the Huron River

and major tributaries and obtain
maximum leverage of taxpayer
money through use of grant funds,
partnerships and landowner dona-
tions.
The city began purchasing
development rights to family
farms for the purpose of protect-
ing the surrounding land, after
voters approved a tax levy to help
fund the program in November
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 3


UNIVERSITY IN MOURNING
Campus community
remembers English
Dept. Lecturer Wolk

OUT STANDING FACULTY
Five profs honored
with Thurnau awards

Mel
be r
h

At t
with a
lish D
Wolk r
"In ]
she n
improv
associa
Depart

morial event will with Wolk. "She used to stop by my
office regularly and talk about new
held March 25 to ideas for assignments, or about how
to enhance students' learning in
.onor educator lectures and discussions."
Wolk, a senior lecturer in the
By EMILY ORLEY English Department, lost her battle
For the Daily with cancer on Feb. 10.
In her honor, a memorial evnt
he age of 73 and diagnosed will be held March 25 in Audito-
dvanced stage cancer, Eng- rium B of Angell Hall from 4 p.m.
epartment Lecturer Merla to 5:30 p.m.
efused to slow down. Wolk graduated from the Uni-
her last term of teaching, versity of Michigan with a B.A. in
ever stopped working to 1957. She received her Ph.D. and
'e," said Theresa Tinkle, an M.A. from Wayne State University
te professor in the English in 1973 and 1981, respectively.
ment, who worked closely See WOLK, Page 3

Undergraduate
education the focus
of annual awards
By JOHN A. WEISS, JR.
For theDaily
In recognition of the fact that
outstanding faculty are essential
to any successful university, five
professors were recently award-
ed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor-
ships by the University.
At its February meeting, the
University Board of Regents
named Charles Bright, August
Evrard, Andrei Markovits, James
Walsh, and Margaret Wooldridge
as this year's recipients of the pro-
fessorship. The award is given to

faculty members for outstanding
contributions to undergraduate
education at the University.
The Office of the Provost's
website says the award honors
tenured faculty "whose com-
mitment to and investment in
undergraduate teaching has had
a demonstrable impact on the
intellectual development and
lives of their students."
Recipients of the award also
receive a $20,000 grant to aid
their teaching.
The honorary title remains
with professors for the duration
of their time at the University.
Evrard, professor of phys-
ics and astronomy, said he was
"pleasantly surprised," to learn
of his award.
See THURNAU, Page 3

Ice 519,BOYD/Daly
Former South Korean Minister of Unification and 2007 presidential candidate Chang
Dong-young, gave a lecture today entitled "The 'Fourth Wave' in North and South
Korea Relations" in the Michigan League on the importance of moving beyond Cold
War tensions between the two Koreas and working toward reunification.


WEATHER HI: 37
TOMORROW o: 25

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newspmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM 'INDEX N EWS..............
How you can help moderate online comments. Vol. CXIX, No.101 S U D O K U......
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM cD2009 The M chigan Daly OPINION.
michigandailycem

......... .. ..2 A R T S ........................ 5......... 5
................3 C LA S S IF IE D S .......,........ ...... 6
..................4 S P O R T S 7....................... ........ 7

5'


2 - Tuesday, March 3, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, March 3, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters Explained

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

Serving hungry students with a smile

Quickie Burger owner
Kerope Arman has seen his
fair share of intoxicated stu-
dents with the munchies for
fast food. Conveniently locat-
ed at the intersection of Hill
Street and State Street, the
maize-and-blue interior of
Quickie Burger is a common
last stop for students getting
back from a night out, and the
popularity hasn't declined
sihce the restaurant started
serving alcohol in January.
"They've always patron-
ized at night, because they're
always around, 12 o'clock,
one o'clock, two o'clock,"
Arman said about students.
Now 60 years old, Arman
said the restaurants unusu-
ally young and collegiate cli-
entele make him feel young
again.
"Well, for an old man it's
totally different, you feel

elated, and you feel young
because when you're 60
years old, and you're sur-
rounded by 18, and 20, and
22-year-olds, you feel a little
bit younger, so for me it's a
nicer atmosphere."
Quickie Burger, famed
for its controversial logo of a
scantily clad woman riding a
hamburger, also has a special
place in campus life on foot-
ball Saturdays when "proba-
bly 50,000 people" passby on
thestreet outside the restau-
rant, according to Arman.
"Football Saturdays are
just phenomenal, I mean in
the way of volume. It's very
hectic from the beginning
of morning until six, seven
o'clock at night. They tail-
gate prior, they tailgate after.
It's nice to see people having
fun," Arman said.
Arman, who has owned

Quickie Burger for one yea
and whose son and wife als
help run the restaurant, onl
had positive things to sad
about the students who mak
up a large proportion of th
restaurant's patrons.
"They're much more open
they're much more interac
tive, they're interested. Yot
get a chance to talk abou
diverse subjects. Some tal]
about politics, some tall
about sports, some talk abou
current events and issues,
Kerope said.,
When asked whether he'
seen any rowdiness or othe
alcohol-induced behavio
late at night among students
Arman staunchly declined.
"Never, never, never
They're just nice, well
behaved," Arman said.
Arman acknowledged tha
there were some things hap

ZACHARY MEISNER/Daily
Kerope Arman, owner of Quickie Burger, stands.
behind the counter to wait for customers. The res-
taurant began serving alcohol in January.

CRIME NOTES
Man falls asleep iPod stolen,
in library, almost thought to be
gets arrested taken to hospital

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Legal Research
Library
WHEN: Saturday at about 9:15
a.m.
WHAT: A library staff member
requested assistance with a
possible trespasser, University
Police reported. The man in
question had fallen asleep and
was allowed in the library.
Dog walkers
with no leash get
verbal warning
WHERE: Nichols Arboretum
WHEN: Saturday at about
11:30 a.m.
WHAT: An officer verbally
warned subjects who were
walking a dog without a leash,
University Police reported.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Sunday at about 7:15
p.m.
WHAT: A man unaffiliated
with the University requested
assistance after his iPod was
stolen from his home in Scio
Township and allegedly taken
to University hospital, Univer-
sity Police reported. The iPod
wasn't found in a search of the
alleged subject.
Lab coat, MCard
stolen at hospital
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Saturday at about 5:30
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
stole a lab coat and an MCard
from the staff coat room at
University hospital, University
Police reported.

Josie Kearns
poetry reading
WHAT: Josie Kearns, from
the University's English
department, will read from
"The Theory of Everything,"
her book of poetry inspired
by the string-theory.
WHO: Universe Theme
WHEN: Today from 2 p.m.
to 5 P.M.
WHERE: Slusser Gallery

Talk on the
future of media
WHAT: John Darnton will
present a lecture titled
"Newspapers: Is there a Life
after Death?"
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: 202S. Thayer,
Room 2022

r pening in. the student hang-
o out that don't normally take
y place at other restaurants,
y but declined to go into details
e since he said he doesn't spend
e a lot of time there at night.
"When you're: here four
, o'clock in the morning, you
- see some things that maybe
u you don't (usually) see in the
t morning. They're a little bit
k more jovial after midnight
k than they are prior, and that
t would be the same with you
and I if we went somewhere
and had a beer or had a cou-
s ple of drinks, and that's what
r happens," Arman said.
r Overall, the Quickie Burg-
, er owner seemed pleased
with catering to the student
r. population.
- "They're feeling good,
they're young, and they're
t having fun," Arman said.
>- -ELIN BERGMAN
T EET_ Z SYOU .
A British man was forced
to seek counseling to treat
his phobia of speed cam-
eras, the Telegraph reported.
Colin Grant, 41, reportedly has
panic attacks at the sight of
the cameras that cause him to
pull over. Grant told reporters
he has never received a speed-
ing ticket.
The BAFTA and Gold-
en Globe nominated
French film "I've Loved
You So Long" is now play-
ing in a limited engagement
at the Michigan Theater.
>>FOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGE5.
3 A Tampa woman was
arrested Saturday after
stabbing her boyfriend
in the face with a silver sti-
letto-heeled shoe during an
argument, Tampa Bay Online
reported. The woman's boy-
friend received cuts to his left
cheek and fell to the ground
after being struck.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Edinor in Chief Business Moager
734-647-3336 734-764-nose
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m. -2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@omichigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaySales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneylRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZManaging News Editoresmilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENOR [EWS EDITORS: ian Bermnn TrevorCalrJule Roweiny Stevn
ASSISTAsNNESmEDIORnSn:t asuon, Benjmin, S.Chas, C~ilin Shneider
Jenna Skoller, Kyle Swanson
RobertSoave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaity.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelvanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS:Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman,Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln-
ASSISTANT SPORTS E DITOR S: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,.
Alex Prosperi, CotRosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
ASIS~sTRANT ARTSEDITORS: Joshu ayerndrewLapinDaveRap,Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,SamWolson
AngelatChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@inichigandaily eom
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisingSalesManager
DISPLAY ADERISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Danie
Nen,Chrsiehillip
Ryan BUsinski ClassifiedSalesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl HUlteng LayoutManager
Vivian Leeand Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDaily(ISSN0745-967)is pubished MondyhdathroFidy duringthefall andwter
te,iam s suents at elniversitofMichgan. Onecoy isaaiable freevflcarge toill ireanr.
dieilvcopieaubepiced pathDal'offiefot2. Surptinstfrlfllaniterter
(SeptemberthroughApril)via U.S.mailare$200Year-roundsubscriptions(Fall,Winter,Springand
Summer issues)are $225. Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The
Associated PressandThe Associated Collegiate Press.

Free hip-hop Chinese lecture

dance lessons
WHAT: Members of Dance
2XS, a University dance
team, will teach free hip-hop
dance classes. The lessons
are available for students of
any experience level.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs and Dance
2XS
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Commons

WHAT: Sherman Cochran, a
history professor at Cornell
University, will give a lec-
ture about Chinese history.
WHO: Center for Chinese
Studies
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building, Room 1636
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.


[

Renowned. Respected.
And really close to home.

Oakland University offers more than 100 prestigious graduate programs in the hottest fields,
including master's degrees and short-term certificates so you can:
Stand out from colleagues
Increase your career options
Quickly retool your credentials
Plus research shows those with master's degrees enjoy higher pay, increased employee
benefits, and a better work/life balance than their peers without this credential*
Convenient locations in Oakland and Macomb counties,
and flexible payment options make earning a
graduate degree easier than you think.
*"Your Big Payday" by AJ Fanter; published in Yahoo! Education 2008,
based on a 1998 study by the Institute of Higher Education Policy.
Get more information
or apply online at
www.oakland.edu/gograd
or call (248) 370-3167.
Master of 7
"Oak and
UNIVERS[Y ________________________

I

4

4

4


I

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 3, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 3, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
TAMPA, Fla.
No SOS response
from two missing
NFL players
The Coast Guard says it has nar-
rowed the search area for two NFL
players and another man whose
overturned boat was found off the
Florida Gulf Coast.
Coast Guard Capt. Timothy
Close says the search area is "sub-
stantially smaller," based on where
they found the boat and a survivor
Monday. Searchers had previously
covered 16,000 square miles.
Nick Schuyler was clinging to
the boat about 35 miles off Clear-
water. The former University of
South Florida player told rescuers
that the boat was anchored when it
flipped Saturday evening in rough
seas.
He says the, others aboard got
separated from the boat.
The boat belongs to Oakland
Raiders linebacker Marquis Coo-
per. He, free-agent defensive line-
man Corey Smith and former South
Florida player William Bleakley
remained missing.
WASHINGTON
Gov't moves to aid
AIG with $30B,
for a second time
A new definition of desperate
times: Even as the government
threw a stunning new $30 billion
lifeline to American International
Group on Monday, the beleaguered
insurance giant confirmed it had
lost more than twice that much,
$62 billion, in a single three-month
period.
And many more billions of feder-
al dollars are almost sure to be shov-
eled into the company for a simple
reason: Officials fear its collapse
would cripple financial markets in
the U.S. and around the world.
The source of trouble for AIG,
which has 74 million customers
worldwide and operations in more
than 130 countries, is its business
insuring mortgage-backed securi-
ties and other debt against default.
That business imploded once the
credit crisis struck with force.
The government has now made
four separate efforts to save the com-
pany, totaling more than $170 billion.
BATON ROUGE, La.
Gov. Jindal defends
message of his GOP
Widely panned for his national
TV address, Louisiana Gov. Bobby
Jindal offered his first defense
of the speech Monday, saying
he sticks by the message, while
acknowledging shortcomings in
his delivery.
"Look, I get that people thought
I could have spoken better. I get
that. That's fine ... What's impor-
tant to me is the content. I'm a pol-
icy guy. You guys know that. I've
always been a policy guy, always
will be a policy guy. The ideas
are important. The substance is
important," Jindal told reporters
in the state Capitol, a day after

returning from a family vacation.
The 37-year-old governor, regu-
larly touted as a presidential con-
tender, said he outlined a critical
philosophical distinction between
theviewsofDemocrats andRepub-
licans as he gave the national GOP
response to Obama's first address
to Congress last week.
Republican party leaders have
touted the Oxford-educated Jin-
dal, son of Indian immigrants, as
the future of the GOP, generating
lofty expectations for his debut
national address. Jindal said he
wrote the speech himself.
HAVANA, Cuba
Raul Castro ousts
top Cubans loyal
to Fidel Castro
President Raul Castro abruptly
ousted some of Cuba's most power-
ful officials Monday, remaking the
government in the biggest shakeup
since he took over from his ailing
brother Fidel Castro a year ago.
The changes replaced some key
Fidel loyalists, including the long-
time foreign minister, with men
closer to Raul. They also reduced
the enormous powers of a vice
president credited with saving.
Cuba's economy after the fall of the
Soviet Union.
But analysts saw no immedi-
ate indication that the changes are
related to hopes for closer U.S.'
Cuban ties now that both countries
have new presidents.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Dow dips below 7,000

Pescovitz will

for first time since 1997 take the reins of

Investors concerned
about weak markets,
another AIG bailout
NEW YORK (AP) - A relentless
sell-off in the stock market Mon-
day blew through barriers that
would have been unthinkable just
weeks ago, and investors warned
there was no reason tobelievebuy-
ers will return anytime soon.
The Dow Jones industrialaver-
age plummeted below 7,000 at
the opening bell and kept driving
lower all day, finishing at 6,763 -
a loss of nearly 300 points. Each
of the 30 stocks in the index lost
value for the day.
And the Standard & Poor's
500 stock index, a much broader
measure of the market's health,
dipped below the psychologically
important 700 level before clos-
WOLK
From Page 1
She began working for the Uni-
versity of Michigan in 1986 as
a lecturer. In 2002, she became
one of the first five recipients of a
senior lectureship award.
Wolk not only excelled on
paper, but also in the classroom.
"What was remarkable about
Prof. Wolk was how she managed
a perfect mixture of encourage-
ment and guidance in her discus-
sions," according LSA sophomore
Michael Vickers, who previously
had Wolk as an instructor.
Vickers said that Wolk didn't
simply listen to a discussion and
bend it back to her original out-
line. Instead, he said Wolk would
explore the comment and expand
on its strengths or point out its
flaws.
LSA sophomore Barrie

ing just shove it. It hadn't traded
helow 700 since Octoher 1996.
Investors were worried anew
about the stability of the finan-
cial system after insurer Ameri-
can International Group posted
a staggering $62 billion loss for
the fourth quarter, the biggest
in U.S. corporate history - and
accepted an expanded bailout
from the government.
. But beyond daily headlines,
Wall Street seems to have given
up the search for a reason to
believe that the worst is over and
the time is ripe to buy again.
"As bad as things are, they can
still get worse, and get a lot worse,"
said Bill Strazzullo, chief market
strategist for Bell Curve Trading,
who said hehbelieves the Dow might
fall to 5,000 and the S&P to 500.
The Dow's descent has been
breathtaking. It took only 14
trading sessions for the average
Schwartz, who also took one
of Wolk's courses, added, "she
brought unique ideas and per-
spectives to every book we read,
but encouraged and welcomed all.
of our own thoughts on the nov-
els."
According to her colleagues,
Wolk's enthusiasm was rooted in
her true passion for literature.
"To say that Merla loved litera-
ture understates the case," said
English Prof. George Bornstein.
"She lived and breathed literature
as a natural part of her life."
Bornstein, who became very
close with Wolk during her more
than 20 years at the Univer-
sity, said that he felt that Wolk
"brought out the best in her col-
leagues, and they knew it."
Adela Pinch, an associate pro-
fessor in the English Department,
was one of those colleagues who
felt impacted by Wolk's generos-
ity and advice.

to fall from shove 8,000 to helow
7,000. For the year, the Dow has
lost 23 percent of its value.
Its last close below 7,000 was
May 1, 1997 - a time when the
market was barreling to one
record high after anotherbecause
of the boom in technology stocks,
but often suffered big drops as
investors worried about inflation
and rising interest rates.
This time around, Wall Street'
analysts seem to believe that a
stock market recovery will first
require signs of health among
financial companies, and on
Monday those signs seemed fur-
ther away than ever.
AIG, whose reach is so vast
that the government warns let-
ting it fail would cripple the very
world financial system, will get
another $30 billion in loans on
top of the $150 billion already
invested by the government.
"I will always remember an
important moment," said Pinch,
"when I consulted her about my
struggles with an essay about
George Eliot I was trying to write.
She patiently listened to all my
ideas, and then said, with just a
touch of impatience, 'just start
writing!' I know that decades of
students had similar experiences
with her, learning from her to
have faith in their ideas about lit-
erature."
As a student who had the plea-
sure of being in Wolk's classroom
twice, LSA sophomore Laura
Winnick said Wolk asked a lot of
her students. But as a result, stu-
dents not only grew as writers,
but as people, she said.
"It was her constant push, her
perpetual challenge to her stu-
dents to understand and appreci-
ate the books we read that made
her an incredible teacher and
inspiring person," said Winnick.

UMHS in May

From Page 1
Pescovitz currently serves as the
executiveassociate dean for research
affairs and interim vice president for
research administration at the Indi-
ana University School of Medicine
and is president and CEO of the Riley
Hospital for Children.
She is a graduate of the North-
western UniversityMedical School
and is a well-recognized pediatric
endocrinologist. She has published
approximately 180 manuscripts
and books with her research,
which focuses on certain causes
and therapies for growth disorders
and puberty conditions.
In an e-mail sent to faculty and
students this morning, Coleman
said Pescovitz is an excellent choice
to head UMHS, especially with the
new opportunities the purchase of
the Pfizer Inc. complex will present.
"The recent decision to purchase
the former campus of Pfizer Inc.
presents the University with tre-
mendous options for growth and
impact in scientific research," Cole-
man wrote. "The research enter-
prise of our Health System is vital to
this expansion, and Dr. Pescovitz is
an exceptional choice for advancing
our scholarship and discoveries."
University officials announced
their intention to purchase the
Pfizer property, which was vacated
in 2008, at the December meeting
of the Board of Regents.
Speaking before the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs yesterday, Coleman
stressed Pestovitz's qualifications
and praised her as a good choice
for the position.
"Oneofthethingsthatimpressed'
me very much ... that she was able
COLEMAN
From Page 1
(Now) we're down to $320 (mil-
lion) or $325 million."
Coleman said that some of the
money from the stimulus package
will alsobe givento federal agencies
that would then release the funds in
the form ofcompetitive grants.
"There's money, that federal
agencies will get that we will then
have the possibility to compete
for," she said.
The University is also very con-
scious that any stimulus moneyis a
one-time allocation that should be
used for one-time expenses, Cole-
man said.
"The one thing that we have
been talking about, and I think
it's a very important principle,
that fhe University has adhered to
ever since I've been here and when
we've had to deal with budget cuts,
is that we have not used one-time '
money for ongoing costs," she said.

to reach out far beyond the college
of medicine," Coleman said of Pes-
covitz's time at Indiana University.
"(She) comes to us with an enor-
mous amount of experience."
In a statement released by
UMHS, Pescovitz said she is excit-
ed and honored to lead UMHS.
"It is a time of great challenges
in the economy and health care,
as well as a time of unprecedent-
ed opportunities in biomedical
research," she wrote in'the state-
ment. "I'm looking forward to
working with the extraordinary
team at one of the nation's finest
universities to meet these chal-
lenges and opportunities."
Provost Teresa Sullivan, who
headedthe searchcommittee,wrote
in a statement that she felt Pescovitz
was a strong choice for the job.
"Dr. Pescovitz is a talented
researcher, a skilled clinician and
an experienced administrator who
brings vision and commitment to
her work," Sullivan wrote.."This
combination of qualities will make
her an effective leader at the Uni-
versity of Michigan."
Kelch was also very supportive
of the choice of Pescovitz.
"As a pediatric endocrinologist
myself, I have admired her and
been amazed by her accomplish-
ments," he wrote in a statement. "I
am confident in her ability to lead
our Health System to new heights."
Pescovitz is married to hus-
band Mark Pescovitz, who is an
organ transplant surgeon, profes-
sor of surgery and microbiology
and immunology and vice chair
of research for the Department of
Surgery at the Indiana University
School of Medicine. The couple has
three children.
"We don't want to introduce a
structural deficit that we will have
to pay the piper on in a few years."
Coleman also discussed Gov.
Jennifer Granholm's call on state
universities not to raise tuition next
year, inan effort to aid families who
may be suffering financially. Cole-
man added that there have been
discussions within the University
about a possible tuition freezer
"In her State of the State address,
she did ask universities to consider
the possibility of freezing tuition,"
she said. "I have a different view-
point here because I try to look at
any circumstance where artificial
cost hasn't created acrisis down the
road, so I don'tunderstand that."
In the end, Coleman told SACUA
members that more information,
about the budget and funding lev-
els will be clarified over the next
few months.
"I don't anticipate that much of
this will become very clear for the
next few months," she said. "We
just want to be ready."


THURNAU
From Page 1
"It's funny. It's not like abeauty
contest or "American Idol". It's
not as dramatic a process as real-
ity television," he said.
Evrard said he plans to use the
money to fund conferences and
pay for a D-scribe - an advanced
student who transcribes lecture
materials into a digital product
that canbe published online.
"Imagine it as a global C-Tools,"
Evrard said.
Markovits is the Karl W.
Deutsch collegiate professor of
comparative politics and German
studies, Germanic languages and
literatures, political science and
sociology. This year, Markovits is
at the Center for Advanced Study
in Behavioral Sciences of Stanford
University, finishing a book titled
"Global Players, Local Cultures,"
and is beginning work on human-
animal relations.
"Total incredulity," Markovits
saidhis reactionwas uponhearing
thathehadbeenselected. Named a
Karl W. Deutsch collegiate profes-
sor for his research, and honored

with the Golden Apple Award for
outstanding teaching, Markovits
compares the Thurnau Professor-
ship to hitting the trifecta.
"I love every aspect of my job,"
he said, adding that the University
has been very good to him.
"Love what you do, and do it
with passion and with dedication
and it will be fun," said Walsh,
who knew that he wanted to be a
professor since his junior year at
Columbia University.
Walsh is the Gerald and Esther
Carey professor of business
administration, a professor of
management and organizations
and bprofessor of strategy in the
Stephen M. Ross School of Busi-
ness. He said he was deeply hon-
ored to be a recipient of a teaching
award.
"I'm pleased because I really
do pour my heart and soul into my
teaching," Walsh said.
He also wanted to remind stu-
dents to take advantage of the
University not only as a place to
gain the accumulated wisdom of
previous generations, but also as a
place of inquiry.
"Sometimes with all of the
pressure for grades we lose sight

of what is really at play. This is not
all about digesting facts and the
like. I fear that some people mis-
take their performance on assign-
ments and tests as the mark of a
good education. Education is all
about inquiry," Walsh said.
Walsh said he plans to use the
grant money to take his classes to
China to investigate global cor-
porate governance, something he
has done in the past.
"I'm always looking for funding
to be able to do that," he said. "My
orientation is tospend the money
on the students somehow."
Wooldridge is a professor, of
mechanical engineering and
associate professor of aerospace
engineering in the College of
Engineering and Bright is a pro-
fessor of history, director of the
Residential'College and co-found-
er of the Semester in Detroit pro-
gram.
Funding for the award comes
from the Thurnau Charitable
Trust. A student at the University
in the early 20th century, Arthur
Thurnau established the trust
to give back to a campus that he
gained so much from in his under-
graduate days.


CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
2003.
"I think this is a great additio
to the Greenbelt program," sai
Ann Arbor City Councilmembe
Carsten Hohnke (D-Ward 5).
Hohnke added that the pur-
chaseofthe developmentrights
of the Webster Township land
will help to create an excess of
400 acres of farmland in the
Greenbelt holdings.
Mayor John Hieftje was
equally excited about the
purchase. He said that land
protection and an increased
emphasis on local agriculture
will become more important in
the years to come as transpor-
tation costs increase.
"There's no reasonwhyyears
later this land can't be used for
local agricultural growth," he
said.
Another environmental
issue discussed at the meeting
was a proposal to ban plastic
shoppingbags in the city, which
was first introduced by Coun-
cilmember Stephen Rapundalo
(D-Ward 2) in a meeting last
June.
City Council later tabled the
proposal to allow for a period
of public comment.
Last night council members
unanimously voted to post-
pone action on the ban until
June 1 in order to enable more
discussion between city staff
and local retailers.
"There's still a little hit more

n
id
r

work to do at this time," said
Rapundalo.
If the ordinance is approved,
stores that gross more than $1
million annually will be prohib-
ited from distributing plastic bags
to customers at checkout.
In a previous interview with
the Daily, Rapundalo said that

the $1 million limit will target
larger-grossing businesses and
protect smaller local businesses
that can't afford alternatives to
plastic.
He added that the reason for
the ban was to stop the prolifera-
tion of plasticbags floating around
the city.

WANT TO WRITE
FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-MAIL SMILOVITZ@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
Corona/Des Equis Specials All Night
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
I U n ti WEEEE 2D m E 1 W n to * ne U


sua r oullia ,a0pw u o uOsu
3102Maynu d StM- 13,9%5.0100Mtocded eAI otAl mayflvdPw4i Sf, we
*2' '- U

I I


IECUk AN


SU COM BIA NIRSITY
Columbia's Summer Term offers a wide variety of undergraduate
and graduate courses for visiting students from across the nation.
The Summer Term offers fascinating, challenging courses taught by
Columbia and visiting faculty. Summer Term students have access
to a state-of-the-art student center, gym, and recreational facilities,
as well as one of the largest library collections in the nation.
SESSION ONE: May 26- July 3
SESSION TWO: July 6-August 14
' COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Summer Term 2009

I


4 - Tuesday, March 3, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

gan i[y


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Granting wishes
Ann Arbor must receive its share of stimulus money
hile many students are wishing for warmer weather
on campus, the city has come up with a wish list of its
own. Last week, the Ann Arbor City Council released
a prioritized list of programs it hopes Michigan's share of the
recently passed federal stimulus bill will fund. Though the list of
projects ranges greatly, they tend to have one thing in common
- they ought to be funded by the bill. Funding these projects
will accomplish precisely what the stimulus bill aims to do: cre-
ate jobs, stimulate the economy and improve the local communi-
ty. State and local government should coordinate their efforts to
provide stimulus funding for the projectsthat Ann.Arbor's city
council has outlined.

First on the wish list are repairs for Sta-
dium Boulevard, which is worse for the
wear after years of federal neglect. The
southern lanes on the road's bridge have
been entirely closed, because the beam that
supports that part of the bridge, according
to Ann Arbor City Councilmember Leigh
Greden, is deteriorating. It's unacceptable
for bridges in Michigan - or anywhere, for
the matter - to be allowed to reach such
a state of near-collapse. Luckily, the city
expects to receive money for this project,
and it should. Communities deserve the
money they need to make roads like this
one safe for residents.
The city is also requesting funding so
that it can provide better insulation in low-
income homes. Insulating these homes
would help reduce utility bills and put
money in the pockets of people who really
need it, year after year. Not only would this
save energy, this program would also allow
these individuals to spend more money in
the local community. It's disappointing
that the city may not receive funding for
this program. While it's true that other
communities may need the money more,
the federal and state governments ought
to provide enough money to ensure that
affordable, properly equipped housing is

readily available to low-income individu-
als in every community.
Other priorities for the city include
installing new traffic lights and creating
bicycle lanes along Fifth and Division Street.
Adding bicycle lanes is likely to create jobs
during construction, improve traffic con-
ditions and make it safer for bike-riders to
get around in the city. Not to mention that
it would encourage the use of bikes, helping.
to make the city greener and less congested.
Similarly, the city's plan to install LED traf-
fic lights would make the city more sustain-
able. officials hope they can use stimulus
funding to replace all of the city's traffic
lights with energy-efficient LED lights. This
project would save the city thousands of
dollars on its energy bills, freeing up money
for other activities. It would also reduce
energy consumption, placing less stress on
the environment, making this a wise invest-
ment for stimulus funding.
It's clear that the city can't afford to
postpone these programs. Creating a sus-
tainable city with well-kept infrastructure
and properly insulated housing is a wor-
thy cause for stimulus money. Like many
other cities in Michigan, this city deserves
to have its most important financial needs
met with federal dollars.

Nothing kills my libido quite like
discussing politics."
- Meghan McCain, daughter of Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), explaining how her father's
presidential campaign has affected her personal life, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ELAINE MORTON ! iT E CE-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
- --r ie s fili t 4 c .st
rbnof sriglo At-ow hw tcrVs
Allied for tolerance
L ast month, University LGBT who believes that gay people should people of other religions or people of
students - with the help of have the same rights as anyone else, another gender. But just because we
the Spectrum Center - won I watched with dismay as the country have the right to withhold our "accep-
the" right to host rejected the idea of equal rights in the tance" doesn't mean we should. And
the 2011 Midwest - 2008 presidential election. Califor- in all those examples, society has by
Bisexual Lesbian nia, Florida and Arizona passed bal- and large moved toward accepting
Gay Transgender lot proposals to abolish gay marriage. these different groups of people. To
Ally Conference. d M It's easy to think that these anti-gay think that the LGBT community is
According to the k sentiments are held by people in dis- any different - or any less deserving
Daily story (Uni- tant parts of the country, or at least of our acceptance - is absurd.
versity to host people who aren't high-minded,
LGBT conference, - I worldly and tolerant college students.
02/19/2009), But I have reason to believe that our Showing the
Spectrum Assis- ROBERT campus isn't necessarily the bastion
tant Director SOAVE of tolerance we might think it is.
Gabe Javier feels Where's my evidence, you ask? LGBT com mu mty
that the Univer- Well, I run into negative attitudes B
sity of Michigan toward the LGBT community all the true acceptance.
is a great place for the conference to time. I've engaged in discussions
be held in part because the Spectrum with students in classes, at social
Center has "a-great set of allies all gatherings, in dorm cafeterias and
across the University that can really other places on campus. When a This distinction between active
make the conference feel so much group of college students are having discrimination and passive discrimi-
more different". a discussion, it's not uncommon for nation (in the form of denying accep-
For those wondering what an "ally" these talks to turn into policy debates tance to LGBT people) shouldn't
is, it's a term used to refer to people - and when those debates focus on exist. Discrimination is discrimina-
who are not part of the LGBT com- the issue of gay marriage, I've often tion, and while statements such as "I
munity themselves but support LGBT found myself running into some ver- just don't approve of a gay lifestyle"
individuals and their movement for sion of the following statement: "I seem to consistently pass the societal
equal rights and acceptance. The don't have to support that lifestyle." "tolerance test", would someone who
Spectrum Center actually has an Ally Sentiments like this may not seem said "I just don't approve of a Chris-
Training program on campus that outwardly offensive - they don't say tian lifestyle," or "I just don't approve
aims to educate allies and create dia- that gay people should be kicked off of a Jewish lifestyle," be met with
logue between them and people in the campus or should stop living in sin such regard?
LGBTmovement. Based upon this and - but they hint at a subtler and yet The good news about the LGBT
the general perception of the Univer- equally powerful form of bigotry that struggle is that it seems fairly inevi-
sity as promoting a liberal, tolerant I increasingly find myself running table that such bigotrywill one daybe
environment, it would seem that this into on campus. placed in the same category as most
campus is as good a place as any. The tendency seems to be for indi- other forms of discrimination. But
But despite the degrees of toler- viduals who oppose the LGBT move- with the Midwest LGBT Conference
ance afforded members of the LGBT ment to express opposition to the idea on our campus still two years away,
community on campus, I can't quite? that we need to "accept" LGBT indi- the best thing you can do is chal-
shake the feeling that we aren't as viduals. They seem to think that as lenge notions of passive intolerance
tolerant here as we think we are. And long as they aren't openly and actively toward gay people so that when the
while our campus certainly does have hostile to homosexuals, they're fully conference does arrive, maybe we
a large number of allies who support entitled to "disagree" with LGBT can demonstrate that the University
the LGBT movement, it appears to individual's lifestyle choices. In the of Michigan is indeed an ally of the
me that a strong current of non-ac- strictest sense, they're right - no one LGBT community.
ceptance runs through not just the is, or should be, forcibly required to
country, but the University popula- hold certain opinions. We are allowed - Robert Soave is the Daily's
tion as well. to disapprove of interracial marriage editorial page editor. He can be
As an ally of the LGBT community or people of other races entirely, reached at rsoave@umich.edu.
ADAM GAGLIOj
The perils of environmentalism

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
La SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Daily failed to recognize In recession, jobs more
key points of Iraq lecture important than charity

4

TO THE DAILY:
Professor Juan Cole delivered a lecture in
February entitled "Collective Action in Ameri-
can Iraq: Can the People Thwart Empire?"
Attempting to cover the event, the Daily article
(Cole discusses role of militants inIraq, 02/19/09)
failed to address some of Cole's more pertinent
points.
For those that missed out and want to know,
here they are:
First, Paul Bremer, head of the Coalition
Provisional Authority of the U.S. Secretary
of Defense, issued his 100 Orders, or "Bremer
Plan," in 2003. It mandated the privatization
of Iraq's 200 state-owned oil reserves and pro-
tection for foreign investors and contractors.
It also called for the "de-Baathification" of
the Iraqi government in favor of a secular one.
Unfortunately for the Bush administration,
these orders did not go according to plan.
Second, part of U.S. strategy in the Middle
East, Cole argued, was a continuation of Cold
War policies - namely, the conversion of some
of the world's last socialist strongholds into
U.S. friendly markets. With the Soviet Union
out of play, the Bush administrations figured
they would give global domination another go.
Third, only 14 percent of Iraqis actively sup-
ported resistance against American troops in
2003; by 2006, 75 percent wanted to kill U.S.
troops.
Fourth, while Obama's "instincts are good"
when it comes to Iraq and imperialism in
general, he is "tone-deaf" when it comes to
Afghanistan.
Cole's closing point presented a nice summa-
ry of his argument: There is generally a battle
between social and diplomatic history. In Iraq,
social history won.
David Bennett
LSA junior

TO THE DAILY:
I was visitingmy soninAnnArborwhenIread
Matthew Green's column (A greed-fueled culture,
02/16/2009). Ironically, like Mr. Green, I also
passed a homeless man on my way to the Union
on State St. Instead ofwantingto give him money,
however, I wished I could give him a job. In fact,
many of the "greedy" business people that Mr.
Green cites in his article have provided jobs for
hundreds of people.
A recent article in the Detroit News talks about
the new leader of the Michigan Republican Party,
Ron Weiser (Ann Arbor mogul takes reins of GOP,
02/21/2009). He graduated in 1966 from the Uni-
versity of Michigan with a business degree. But,
unlike many of our "leaders" in Congress, he does
not have a graduate degree. His Ann Arbor-based
real estate firm currently manages more than
$2.2 billion in assets across the country. Some
people may call that "greedy". However, who
knows how many people Weiser prevented from
being homeless because he provided them with a
job? He did not do this out of sympathy. Weiser
needed construction workers to build his offices,
secretaries to run them and real estate agents to
sell real estate.
The legislators on Capital Hill do not have
any money to create jobs. They use our taxpay-
ers' money and decide how and where to spend
that money, based on public policies. I do not
think Thomas Jefferson would fund a School of
Public Policy. His own policy was one of "laissez
faire" - letting the people be. When people are
allowed to make their own decisions, some may
succeed and some fail. But everyone in America
has the opportunity to learn from their mistakes
and try again. When Americans do succeed, they
provide jobs and ample opportunities for other
Americans.
Michele Zabawa
Alum

The Obama administration promises to change Ameri-
ca's impact on the environment - but the environmentalist
movement is a serious danger to mankind Unfortunately,
whenever I voice this concern, people act as if I'm com-
mitting a mortal sin. Their initial shock is quickly fol-
lowed by an angry barrage of arguments: "Don't you care
about the earth?" "We need to leave an untouched planet
for future generations - think about the children!"
Make no mistake, I value the environment. I value it as a
tool to be used by man to enhance his existence. But frank-
ly, I care more about people than I care about nature.
It seems to me that environmentalism's ultimate aim
is nothing more than the destruction of civilization and
the reduction of mankind to a primitive, animal-like
state. The majority of activities that the environmental-
ists oppose are life-enhancing for humans. For example,
environmentalists have fought against logging in New
Hampshire, which allows for job creation and provides
raw materials for housing. They have opposed drilling for
oil in Alaska and the mining of tar sands in Canada, both
of which reduce energy prices and lower our dependence
on oil from the Middle East. They also object to the use
of sand on winter roads in Seattle, which helps to prevent
traffic accidents and save lives.
The environmental movement's contempt for man
can be traced back to its philosophical underpinnings.
Environmentalists subscribe to the idea that the envi-
ronment has intrinsic value. In other words, they believe
that nature is automatically valued, with or without the
existence of man. This is precisely why environmental-
ists oppose mankind's destruction of wetlands but not the
natural destruction of wetlands. It's also why they oppose
the building of a manmade dam but not a dam built by a
beaver. Mankind's disturbance of the inherent "goodness"
of nature is seen as wrong and, ultimately, as immoral.
I'm sure you've heard that it's good to reduce your
"environmental footprint." Since man can only survive
by changing nature to fit his needs, he must intrude on
its inherent "goodness" in order to survive. This is pre-
cisely why man must have a "footprint" in order to live as
a man. We must alter the environment in order to grow
food, build a house, produce clothing and fulfill even the
most basic of human needs. Given the requirement that
man must alter nature to survive, the environmental
movement's demand that we keep nature pristine is anti-
mankind.

Still in denial? You wouldn't be the only one. Earth
First! Journal editor John Davis says, "Human beings,
as a species, have no more value than slugs." Former Vice
President and environmental movement leader Al Gore
explains an ethical dilemma in his book Earth in the Bal-
ance: "The Pacific Yew can be cut down and processed
to produce a potent chemical, taxol, which offers some
promise of curing certain forms of lung, breast and ovar-
ian cancer in patients who would otherwise quickly die.
It seems an easy choice - sacrifice the tree for a human
life until one learns that three trees must be destroyed
for each patient treated." Only the twisted philosophy of
environmentalism could make Mr. Gore think thatkilling
three trees to save a human life is a difficult choice.
So what does President Obama think of such an evil
philosophy? Unfortunately, he fully embraces it. Obama
wants to force a cap-and-trade plan on Americans that
will limit their energy usage at the expense of their stan-
dard of living. His plan will extort over $150 billion from
energy companies over the next ten years. Once in pos-
session of this money, he claims he will invest it into new
"green energy" - something that has proved so unprofit-
able thus far that private investors won't touch it without
substantial government incentives. In fact, most "green
energy" companies can't survive without the taxpayer-
funded subsidies required to keep them afloat. Obama has
promised to double automotive fuel economy standards
within 18 years, which will undoubtedly make cars more
expensive to produce and thus more expensive to buy. It
will also force manufacturers to make lighter, less crash-
worthy vehicles, which have been shown to increase acci-
dental deaths. How many more people will die in traffic
accidents so that we can decrease our carbon footprint?
It's time for students at the University of Michigan
(and across the country) to realize the depravity of the
environmentalist philosophy and its manifestation in
American politics under the Obama administration. The
philosophythat underlies environmentalism is inherently
evil because it regards mankind as a problem and nature
as good, apart from its value to man. So, when you think
about attending "Earth Hour" on Mar. 28, make sure you
understand that turningoffyourlights issymbolic of what
environmentalists and apparently the Obama administra-
tion want: a return to the Stone Age.
Adam Gaglio is a member of Students of Objectivism.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

A

T


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 3, 2009 -- 5

Raining on my
own parade

Josh Bayer wishes he could be this sad.
H Veay
Award-nominated French
melodrama is as engaging
as it is confusing
By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
Last year's French melodrama "I've Love
You So Long" is difficult to understand with
out being a parent.
The film's plot revolves
around the death of a young
child and its resolution is so
contentious it's difficult to I've Love
say if the movie is any good
or not. The film is hard to YOU SO LON
understand, as it is driven At the
by complicated, parental, Michigan
chain-smoking, progressive
main characters. French Sony
theatrics sure are tough,
eh? But maybe that's not the purpose of thi
film.
"I've Loved You" contains a fascinatin
argument that falters only under its own pre
tenses and first-timer direction.
From what can be understood, the plo
goes like this: Juliette Fontaine (Kristin Scoi
Thomas, "Confessions of a Shopaholic") ha
just been released from prison after a 15-yea
stint. Juliette's much younger sister Lea (Els

fa ily n
Zylberstein, "Modigliani") uneasily takes her
big sis in, which casts a lingering pall that
hangs over her estranged family. Lea has a
husband and two adopted daughters who
meet Juliette with equal parts curiosity and
crossness. And from their familial interac-
tions, we gather Juliette hasn't spoken to her
parents in a long time, as they taught Lea to
pretend Juliette never existed. Why, exactly,
d has Juliette been outcast?
- Juliette killed her 6-year-old son.
The remainder of the film is a kind of
delayed aftermath where scenes and circum-
stances come to fruition as Juliette struggles
to get back to "normal" life. Colleagues judge
her for what she's done, but Juliette bites her
tongue harder than any other person has in
9 his or her life, holding herself back from tell-
ing others about her past. These reactions are
contained 'in a series of moments. But these
moments bring to life an array of conse-
quences and decisions.
"I've Loved You" concerns itself with
is redemption and moving on. It's also about
making choices, understanding your fam-
g ily and, most importantly, being a parent and
- taking that responsibility. Maybe this is why
college students might have trouble under-
at, standing this film.
tt Parents and future parents might find the
is film more interesting, since it provides fine
ir practice in polemics. Why did Juliette kill her
a own child? Can a death ever be justified? What

can we understand about this woman? Shades
of gray, indeed. At first, the film's weakness is
that it has no real goals. But that issue becomes
"I've Loved You's" strength. Through it's open-
ended scenes, the film offers few answers, but
still raises interesting questions. .
One scene in particular, which contains
what might be the most uncomfortable dinner
table ever filmed, shows Juliette making a joke
of her prison sentence as Lea's literati friends
pound her for answers. The party wonders
where Juliette has been for such a long time,
and her shame is apparent as she's forced to
make light of it. Scott Thomas is devastating,
and the scene is just one of many standouts.
The acoustic soundtrack to the film doesn't
always fit, some dramatic beats get screwed
by overacting and the way the film blocks
together the scenes occasionally hurts. Still,
"I've Loved You So Long" is a strong film, with
a stronger lead.
Scott Thomas has been making the rounds
for the last two months as an indie darling.
Nominated everywhere from the BAFTAs to
the Golden Globes, there was soft dismay at
her Oscar snub for this film. She certainly out-
performs Angelina Jolie ("Changeling") in a
similarly maudlin mother role. Mothers must
have it hard, but Scott Thomas excels in her
role with greater responsibilities.
But who cares about the Oscars atthis point?
Scott Thomas is truly affecting and worthy of
praise. Just don't bring kids to this one.

am a poser. As great as being
sad is, faking "sad" while I'm
actually quite happy could
easily be one of my favorite pas-
times. Music can
be a vital acces-
sory for this sort
of psychologi-
cal slumming.
There's some-
thing especially
cathartic about JOSH
sloshingdown
South University
Avenue in the pouringrain (without
a hood on, of course) while listen-
ing to Elliott Smith, assuming the
role of the doomed romantic from
the cozy vantage point of mental
stability. It's a little hobby Ialike to
call "safe depression," offeringbthe
nostalgic wallowing of bleary-eyed
heartache minus all the messy bits.
Likewise, music can be just as
deft at romanticizing actual, honest-
to-God, I-never-want-to-get-out-of-
bed-again misery. Listeningto Jim
Reid of The Jesus & Mary Chain
plaintively croon, "You cut me dead
/you nail me down and kick my
head" can make one's post-breakup
trauma seem significantly less
trivial. Knowing that there's a whole
subculture of open-heart suffering
going on out there mightcmake you
feel like you're part of an elite clique
of broken-down dreamers. This
sonic support system can transform
your achy discontent into something
poetic, lettingyou floatunfettered
in a womb-like void of shared mel-
ancholy. Certain musicians can take
pain and whittle it into something
beautiful and empowering, crafting
bittersweet songs that allow you to
take a step back and view yourself
as the tragic protagonistthat every-
one's rooting for.
So, in the spirit of waning sea-
sonal depression and post-Valen-
tine's Day angst, I have compiled
a completely non-comprehensive
list of songs that perfectly straddle
this happy/sad dialectic. They are
songs that pluck the sweet spot on
your heartstring between euphoria
and hopelessness. Whether you're
happy or sad, these tunes are guar-
anteed to make you feel exactly the
opposite (and then swing you back
around, full circle).
"These Days" - Nico
Although essentially any song
from "The Royal Tenenbaums"
soundtrack could have made it onto
this list, this one is particularly
precious. As Nico spins failure and
stasis into something emotionally
purging, the listener is swept up in
conflicting sentiments of vulnerabil-
ity and invincibility. The rainy-day
twang of the acoustic guitar, swirled
with sweepingstrings and her
inimitable alto, lends the track an
uncanny magic that makes you feel
like you're perched on the edge of
the world, readyto tackle anything.
"When You Sleep" - My
Bloody Valentine
This is shoegaze at its woozi
best; listeningto this song is like
driftingthrough a pastel fever
d'vm- Hm-ail--nMnarin-

and whistle, free-floating around
a sweet tooth melody, perfectly
capturing the half-awake swoon of
puppy love (or its untimely demise).
If you like your exaltation a bit
messy and art-damaged, then this
is your song.
"She's A Jar" -Wilco
As Jeff Tweedy's endearingly
grizzled voice rolls out non-sequi-
turs over a bittersweet stew of
heart-on-sleeve organs and synths,
you'll have to forcibly will your-
self not to get the shivers. With its
evocative free-association lyrics,
the song is like an emotional thrift
shop, shifting meanings to suit the
listener's current plight or day-
dream. During the chorus, when
Tweedy beckons "watch me float-
ing inches above the people under
me" and a wistful harmonica hook
materializes out of the blue, it's
hard not to feel like you're floating
right up there with him.
"Autumn Sweater" - Yo La
Tengo
"Autumn Sweater" could be the
poster child for the tear-blurred
line between happy and sad that
this list is attempting to address.
With his sparse but powerful lyr
ics, Ira Kaplan chronicles three
stages of a relationship in haiku-
Making myself
sad, song by song.
like fashion, jump-cutting from
the disbelief triggered by a knock
on a door to images of forced
smiles and yearning for "the
beginning." And Kaplan's fragile
vocals are sure to prod your nostal-
gia gland, regardless of what stage
of the romantic washing-machine
you're spinning in.
"Here" - Pavement
"I was dressed for success /but
success, it never comes." No band
captured the breezy apathy of'90s
slacker culture as poignantly as
Pavement, but "Here" is frontman
Stephen Malkm'us at his most ten-
der. While he rambles incoherently
about bad jokes and Spanish can-
dles during the verses, the refrain
of "everything's ending here" never
fails to strike a chord.
"Motion Picture Soundtrack"
- Radiohead
This may be simultaneously
one of the saddest and most uplift-
ing songs ever written. It's almost
uncomfortable to listen as Thom'
Yorke warbles, "Red wine and
sleeping pills / help me get back to
your arms / Cheap sex and sad films
/help me get back where I belong"
over a lonely pump organ. But when
the tricklingharps chime in and
Yorke unexpectedly announces in
waif-like falsetto, "I will see you in
the next life," the song crescendos
to an otherworldly optimism that
defies human emotion.
Bayer could really use anumbrella
for those rainy days. If you have one to
I"nr P--mamA rnv"-oi miar "

bingly agic tgain
By SARAH CHAVEY matic, an abundant amount of con- an example of when Morrissey's to raunchy ("All the gifts that they
Daily Arts Writer fidence (which is abhorrent trait proud ego outwears its allure, gave can't compare in any way
for anyone but a rock star) and leading itself to hollow kitsch. He / to the love I am now giving to
Nostalgia's a bitch. If you have a penchant for engaging in con- tepidly announces, "You don't like you right here right now on the
too much of it, you're punch-drunk flict with, well, everyone. Years of me / but you love me / Either way floor").
and the warm Refusal is a musical manifestation you're wrong / You're gonna miss Despite these notable tracks,
sentiment hazes * of all these elements. me when I'm gone." the album itself lacks an ebb and
all reason and Morrissey's voice is his most One of only two true ballads flow of energy. Years of Refusal
judgment. In the recognizable quality. His strong, on the album, "It's Not Your doesn't fall flat - the majority
world of music, melodic tone and marked British of the songs throb with a brash
such nostalgia- Years of accent have long worked wonders, - vigor fashioned by eager drums
induced beer Refusal ' lending just the right amount of and garage-rock guitar - but
goggles make Attack/Lost arrogance to maintain his musi- The ever-woeful the energy level is at a constant
it all too easy Highway cal allure. This time around, throughout the album's entirety.
to become con- his vocals are more punctuated, M orrissey is And by the fourth track, those
vinced that less-than-genius music though. Where there used to be 0 drums and power chords have
is classic. Butthe hard truth is this: undertones of annoyed detach- - Impotent this pounded any apt ,eardrum into
What once was perfection might ment, there now lies degrees of numbed boredom. There is no
not remain great forever. For, as full-frontal aggression. time around. progression or variation of verve,
Robert Frost once said, "nothing This is befitting to the album's and, while individual songs suc-
gold can stay." largely heavy subject matter. His ceed, the album lacks dynamics.
On Morrissey's Years ofRefusal, words are clipped as he takes ven- Years of Refusal brings Morris-
it's tempting to hear his cool, cocky geance against ex-lovers, drugs, Birthday Anymore" begins with sey's outspoken and salaciously
voice - the once-signature sound alcohol and human mortality. He enough cymbal swooshing and arrogant voice back onto the scene
of The Smiths - and declare the takes on drug addiction in "Some- pitch bending to cause some seri- and dishes out a refreshing dose
album a triumph by default, stellar thing Is Squeezing My Skull," ous indigestion. But the chorus of good old fashioned rock'n'roll.
by association. But while distinct - which he sings in true to form, soars with Morrissey's powerful- There's a fine, line between the
tracks are successful, the album over-the-top fashion. In the song, ly emotive bellows coupled with throwback album of a seasoned
doesn't quite reach the soaring he punches with lines such as classic power chords, saving him musician and that of a washed-up
heights where Morrissey's icon "Diazepam, Valium, Tarmazpam, from sounding top much like a rock-star.Yearsmanagestoachieve
perches on its pedestal. lithium / ECT, HRT, how long Robbie Williams clone. Lyrically, the former, but flounders in piecing
One of the world's more forth- must I stay on this stuff? / Please the song goes from nonsensical together a moving, complete album
right and controversial rock stars, don't give me any more." ("Your voice it might say 'no' / but up to the caliber of Morrissey's for-
Morrissey has a flair for the dra- "All You Need Is Me" provides the heart has a heart of its own,") mer band.
ARTS IN BRIEF

Film Review
Fighting to survive
"Street Fighter:
The Legend of Chun-Li"
20th Century Fox
At Showcase and Quality 16
"Street Fighter: The Legend of
Chun-Li" is about Chun-Li (Kristin
Kreuk, TV's "Smallville"). The movie
showcases the same kind of banality
and repetition found in that state-
ment. On top of a horribly uninterest-
ing storyline about a 'girl looking for
her kidnapped father (think "Taken,"
but vice-versa), it uses the franchise
name of "Street Fighter" for a movie
with none of the high-energy action
or character-driven stories associat-
ed with the classic video game. That

is a serious crime. The few fighting
scenes in the movie are trite and per-
functory, dialogue is long and campy
and famous "Street Fighter" charac-
ters are introduced just for the hell of
it with no accompanying background
information.
If this is Capeom's plan to rein-
troduce the franchise to the movie-
watching public, then "Street Fighter"
might be in trouble. In fact, the 1994
"Street Fighter" big-screen adaptation
with Jean-Claude VanDamme is actu-
ally far more entertaining to watch
than "Chun-Li." And that says a lot.
Anyone who remembers the cheesy
fighting sequences and over-the-top
acting from the 1994 film knows that
the producers were at least having
some fun with the material, The same
cannotbe said with "Chun-Li." It's not
fun to watch. It's just sad.
HANS YADAV


6-Tuesday, March 3, 2009
the michigan daily

CLA S!

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

42 ,
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL '09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
I Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now to get these
special rates.
Incredible location! I & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
nfrnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management,.LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Direct with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments0***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info efpostrealtyproperties.com
-***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprp.com 769-7025.
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
I &2 Bdrm. tfurn. apts. 402 11111 St. &
1313 . Sate. Sept. 09. 7dry. A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.

Now utllthby're eno geta pza

Wy yII S 0 WV 0 Il ll l

coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, updated, w/
prkg., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2240;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jaczzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.comt
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
6 BDRM. HOUSEajust off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg.,laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $2800/mo. 734-320-1026.
**AVAIL. FALL '09.3 bds house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
Mayto May $3000 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3595 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTSAVAIL2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedrooms!
Farised, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location


.s theOPiRY l1N iJE!
 d an4 p g
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or ViSit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.

3 PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
'Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furaished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard, (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus hwilsonwhitemanagement.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.

FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furaished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
Tower Plaza Condomieum
Qu4 &Sec7d Nise-kneo petm Campus
Cal rnan-16msk:
734-663-1530 .
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl.. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng acomcast.net
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 min s.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$788-$949/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213.
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$400 signing bonus on all 2 bedrooms
+ free internet
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Internet!
$400 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
Don't miss out on the Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com

100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
REMODELED 2 BEDROOMS
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet and Heat & Water,
One Parking Space included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. beat/water inci. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus

Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. HousesAvailable
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
lnfo@issaproperties.com
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
*Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
I BDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
CONIPROPERTIES
734-663-5609
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton P. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
4061. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
OPPENHEIMER PROPERTIES
still has houses and large apts. for rent
for Fall '09. Offering $5001-$1000 sign-
ing bonus for available'properties!
4 Bedroom
816 Brookwood. $2700 + util.
1803 HillSt. 1.5-bath. $2650. Util. incl.
506 W Williams. 2 bath. $2100 + util.
5 Bedroom
401 Lawrence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2875 + electric.
401 Lawrence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2950 + gas and electric.
6 Bedroom
-416 Hamilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
$3500+ util.
126 HillSt.2 bath. $3100+util.
1803 Hll S Unt 2 Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
Alt utri pad May Lease. $33111
203 Koch. 2 bath. $2450 + util.
Please Contact 734-995-5575 or
www.oppenheimerproperties.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations.-Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
J557 .t .y
054t >r
,c,- 5pm

- Classification:
010 LostFound
020 - For Sale
ble~ 025 - Parking
en 030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
SS,
one 050 - Furniture
060- For Rent
070 - Sublet
s 080 - Services
0900- Hen oWanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Ch id Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
ity of
0ssue 123 - Websites
. TMD 125 - Music
ation
at a 130 - Roommates
s: 140 - Food & Entertainment
snot yet
s for 150- Personal
prior to 160-Po

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, March 3, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 The whole ball of 30 A-alfa link 47"SN' alum Cheri
1 Partner of "took wax 32 Adored one, in 48 David who
notice" 3 Actress Carrere Asti played Phileas
6 Spoiled tykes 4 Israeli 34 Screwed up Fogg, 1956
11 Dog show letters submachine gun 35 Tours de force 49 Middle name in
14 1 Could Have 5 Coddle 37 Woodworker's mysteries
Danced All Night' 6 Divulge tool 51 Close, in a game
singer impulsively, with 38 "Ditto" 52 Calgary's prov.
15 Betting "out 42 Mil jet locale 55 Bossy comment?
maximum 7 Hoarfrost 44"Friendly skies" 56 Crater edge
16 Slangy refusal 8 Band boosters flier: Abbr. 57 That, in Tijuana
17 *Prospector's 9 20-20, e.g. 45 Lubricates 58 Wapiti
concern 10 Pound resident 46 Brouhaha 59 Formerly called
19 Lance on a 11 *Belushi's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
bench breakout film
20Tinyopenings 12Sagalof P L A N C I C E S E R
21 Pinnacles 'Married...W RINSE NION AXE
23 Traveling infant's Children"
npat 13 Decided IRTO V
27 Assent on a ship 18TheGrapesof 0 0 Y GR O U T I T E L L
28 On a ship Wrath' name iLiUM TANDEM
29 FedEx arrival 22 Comet head? N EW T I S T AM E N T
31 Barbecue fare 23 Ricochet ORAL NEAT M B A
32 Jai alai basket 24 Standfor I N F L AM E T U I T I O N
33 Mansion owner, 25 *The R E T D I E M A N O N
familiarly Untouchables B O R R 0 W E D T I M E
36 Poetic tribate star MIMOSA EE
37 Follower of Ivan, 2e Airline with a hub
say inOsloT
39 Cinnabar, vis-- 27 Theymay be C i 0 B L U E B L O O D E D
vis mercury liberal H E R T E T R A RAGED
4AOMal de __ 29Brg namerin O DE U SH ER S TE P S
41 Immortal slugger Argentine politics xwordedtor@aol.com 03/03/09
Hank
42 Mystique 2
4Aoiinist 14 15 16
Harriet
45 Compensate for 1 10 19
47 Marked down
49 Cot altematives2
50 Author's choice
51 When repeated,
anorthwestern 20 2 9 0
city
53 SisteroftZsa Zsa 31 32 33 30 35
54 *Television
60 Kind of room or 3
hall 40 a1 42
61 Main artery
62 Usher's domain 43s 464 46
63 Squid squirt
64 Helen Reddy's "I 4a 4054
Am _,, 6 5
65 Light ap, and
nord that can 3 54 556 7 s5
preede the last
word of answers o62
to starred clues
DOWN
1 Min. part y Timothy L. Meaker 03/03/09
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Wilson hite
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
Upscale 5 bedroom
apartments@61 I
Curc6a! Tkeg are
newy constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 batb
apartments, w/th a//
the latest arncL reatest
amreot/dea, lice a
wahker and drger in
unit!

4

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publiCation.
Rates: $4.36 per linefor the/first issue and $2.15 per i nefor each
additional consecutive issue. u Frequency and Bulk contracts are availa
contact our stafffor detail s Students may receive a 25% discount whE
ads are placed in person with avalid student ID (non-organizational, nor
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileget
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American ExpreE
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call
of our Account Executives -

2 lines
3 lines
4 lines

I day
8.60
12.90
17.20

2 days 3 days
12.90 17.20
19.35 2580
25.80 39.40

4 days 5 day
21.50 25.80
32.25 38.70
43.00 51.60

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The iabi
TMD for failure to publish an advertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified i
shal be limited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion
wil be responsible for classified advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of public
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended.
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refund
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadline, but no refund wil be given unless the ad has
been published. Refusa:Al ads are subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisement
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reservesthe right to request samples of mail order items
accepting advertising.

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 3, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 3, 2009 - 7

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Billy Sauer saved all 14 shots he faced in Saturday's 4-0 win against Ferris State, conipleting the sweep of the Bulldogs.
Sauer has strong Senior Night

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
BIG RAPIDS - For a player who
will finish his career third among
Michigan goaltenders in total wins
and total shutouts, it was a fitting
way to finish.
But for senior goaltender Billy
Sauer, who had
his most disap- NOTEBOOK
pointing season
this year, it simply felt good to end
Senior Night with a win.
The senior finished the regular
season with a 4-0 shutout over Fer-
ris State at Yost Ice Arena on Satur-
day. Now with eight shutouts, Sauer
sits behind just Josh Blackburn
(1998-2002) and Al Montoya (2002-
2005) on the Wolverines' all-time
shutout list.
Sauer was at his best in Satur-
day's second stanza. Ferris State's
Casey Hines launched a slapshot
from the blueline through traffic,
but Sauer crouched low enough to
see past the Ferris State screen and
reached out to make the glove save.
Later in the period, Sauer faced
an oncoming breakaway attempt
from Bulldog forward Mike
Embach, who broke away from the
Michigan defense at the blueline
and fired a wrist shot that Sauer
saved with his left pad.

"To have Billy Sauer come in
and get a shutout, that's terrific,"
Michigan coach Red Berenson said.
"Good for our team, good for our
seniors."
And it has certainly been a rough
season for Sauer. He split time with
sophomore goalie Bryan Hogan
until Hogan received the starting
job after the November 21-22 series
against Miami (Ohio) series.
Earlier in the season, Sauer
received little goal support com-
pared to his sophomore counter-
part. The Wolverines have been
shut out three times with Sauer
in net and just once with Hogan.
But lately, Sauer has received the
support needed to win, with the
Wolverines scoring four goals in
both of his last two games, against
Nebraska-Omaha and Ferris State.
He has won all three of his starts
this semester.
BULLDOG BRAWL: At the end of
Saturday's second period, two Wol-
verines saw their Senior Night end
a little early.
During the second period, senior
forward Tim Miller tried to jar a
puck loose from FerrisState goalie
Taylor Nelson, upsetting the Bull-
dogs. And the jawing continued
after the second-period buzzer
sounded. The teams met around
center ice, and the action started.

Sophomore defenseman Chad
Langlais was checked from behind
by Bulldog forward Mike Embach
and senior forward Travis Turnbull
looked to retaliate. He went over to
the Ferris State bench where the
pair started trash talking each other
and other. Both Miller and Turnbull
received game misconducts.
"Turnbull and Miller got to rest
in the third period," Berenson said
jokingly. "You notice how during
the (senior) introductions, Miller
goes straight to the penalty box and
shakes hands with the penalty box
keepers because he knows them
better than anybody else."
GLENDENING'S TOP-LINE PRO-
MOTION: Freshman Luke Glenden-
ingwasn't expected to be the biggest
contributor in this year's freshman
class. But his last few weeks of play
earned him a spot in the top line Sat-
urday after fellow freshman David
Wohlberg was scratched.
Glendening scored two goals in
Michigan's comeback 4-2 win over
Nebraska-Omaha on Feb. 14 and
has tallied five goals since January.
"Luke can play with anyone,"
Berenson said. "I think he's a good,
solid player and adds something
with anyone he plays with. He just
works hard. You watch him coming
back, his second effort is defensive.
He just plays strong."

the michigan daily

TIRED OF SEARCHING for your summer " " WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
apartment or house? Wilson White Summer - Make life long friends. The
Management offers One Stop Shopping Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
with hundreds of apartments and a Shops are looking for seasonal help in
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff. Wait
agents are ready to help you the perfect Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hons-
place to call home on campus. Wilson ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
White Management 734-995-9200 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com Make a difference in the life of a child! www.theislandhouse.com
Summer therapy camp for children
b with physical disabilities. Located on
U - shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI.
Positions available for Couselors, pers o
Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts
0 - ' & Crafts/ Recreation, Nurses, Thera-
pists, Food Service, and Auxiliary.
Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and 150
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3 love children. June 14 through August
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose 9. Salary, room & board, and experi-
from. (734) 741-9300 ence of a lifetime provided. Call or COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION
www.annarborapartments.net write for application and information. Loving couple wishing to adopt an
Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O Box 310 infant. Willing to pay legal and medical
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2 Big Bay, MI 49808, (906)-345-9414, expenses. 1-800-488-3038
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl. e-mail BaycliffHC@aol.com. Visit us christineandtimadoption@gmail.com
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo- at www.baycliff.org
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
EM * I'll II I I CUE I I w

BURSTING THE BUBBLE
Michigan men's basketball fans have been obsessing over the
proverbial NCAA Tournament Bubble to see where the Wolverines
stand. To make it easier on you, here's a list of must-see games:
KANSAS STATE ATOKLAHOMA
STATE, TUESDAY AT 7:30 P.M.
Root for: Oklahoma State
Both of these teams were fea-
tured on this week's "Bubble
Watch" on ESPN, so Michigan
fans should watch. this gameF
with a very vested interest. The
Wildcats appear to be on the out-
side looking in, with a terrible
strength of schedule (98) and
subpar RPI (73), but another win
would certainly help. Since the
Cowboys are probably already in
the tournament, the Wolverine
faithful will want to see them 7RLiN WAGNtR/
bury Kansas State on Tuesday. JuniorDenis Clemente, a Puerto Rico native, is averaging over 15 points per game.
NO.10 WAKE FOREST AT MARYLAND, TUESDAY AT 9 P.M.
Root for: Wake Forest
On Feb. 21, Maryland guard Greivis Vasquez had the game of his life. Against then-No. 3 North Carolina
Vasquez had the first Terrapin triple-double since 1987 while scoring a career-high 35 points. His effort was
just enough to topple the Tar Heels in overtime and start some serious NCAA Tournament buzz for the Ter-
rapins. Right now, Maryland is right on the bubble, but beating No. 10 Wake Forest tonight would almost
certainly getcthem in. This is Maryland's last shot at a big win before the ACC Tournament, so Michigan needs
Wake Forest to win.
NO. 2 NORTH CAROLINA AT
VIRGINIA TECH, WEDNESDAY
AT 7:00 P.M.
Root for: North Carolina
All season, the Hokies have not
quite been good enough to reach
"elite" status. They have seven
losses of four points or less. Like
Michigan, Virginia Tech has been
on the bubble as of late, and it
definitely needs one more quality
win to make the NCAA Tourna-
ment. North Carolina can keep
the Hokies out of the tournament,
and you'd be fool to say the Tar
Heels aren't a lock for the Big
DON PETESEN/AP Dance. Suck it up and root for the
Sophomore Terrell Bell and the Hokies can turn some heads with a win this week. top dog.
WISCONSIN AT MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY AT 8:30 P.M.
Root for: Wisconsin
One month ago, after six straight Badger losses, this game would have mant much more to Wisconsin than
Minnesota. But after the Badgers reeled off five straight wins in February, including victories against Illi-
nois, Penn State and Ohio State, Wisconsin is sitting pretty leading up to the NCAA Tournament. The Golden
Gophers have lost five of their last seven and need to win one of its last two games to finish .500 in conference
play. The Wolverines want Wisconsin to win because they need to finish above Minnesota in the Big Ten stand-
ings.
PROVIDENCE AT NO.16 VILLANOVA, THURSDAY AT 7:00 P.M.
Root for: Villanova
Providence's tournament hopes looked pretty bleak after losses to Louisville and Ntre Dame. But last
week, the Friars catapulted their way back onto the bubble with their 81-73 upset over then-No. 1 Pittsburgh.
It was the quality conference win Providence had been struggling to get all season. The Friars have one more
shot Thursday night in their regular-season finale. If they beat Villanova on the road, they are probably in.
Michigan wants a Wildcat win. That would put pressure on Providence to pull off some upsets in the BiguEast
Tournament in order to earna tournament spot.
NO. 23 ILLINOIS AT PENN
STATE, THURSDAY AT 9:00
P.M.
Root for: Illinois
Why are you hearing about
Penn State? he Nittany Lions are

tied for fourth place in the Big Ten
and 1.5 games ahead of Michigan.
You'd think Penn State is a lock,
but its lousy strength of sched-
ule rating can hold it back from
an at-large bid. Penn State has
wins against Purdue and Michi-
gan State boost its tournament
resum, but not much else helps.
If the Nittany Lions win, they
will distance themselves from
DARRELL HOEMANN/AP the Wolverines in the conference
Sophomore Mike Davis has poured in 11.6 points per game for the Illini this year. standings. Michigandoes'twant
that to happen.
CALIFORNIA AT ARIZONA, THURSDAY AT 10:30 P.M.
Root for: California
Both Arizona and California failed to cash in on what would have been quality resum6-building wins Sat-
urday. The Wildcats let a halftime lead slip away at then-No. 21 Washington and California held a lead heading
into the final 10 minutes before falling to then-19 UCLA. Both losses gave Michigan a boost on the bubble.
But on Thursday night, the Wolverines want Laval Lucas-Ferry's former teammates at Arizona to lose. The
Golden Bears are in a pretty solid position and will probably make the tournament. The Wildcats chances are
more shaky, and a loss Thursday would be their fourth in a row
KENTUCKY AT FLORIDA,
SATURDAY AT 2 P.M.
Root for: Florida
This is potentially a lose-lose
situation for the Wolverines. r
Both the Gators and the Wild-
cats are on the fringes of the
bubble, and a 'W' will benefit
either team. But Florida is a little
closer to clinching a spot in the
Big Dance. Kentucky (66th in
the RPI) would gain more from
a win in this game, so Michigan
fans should be rooting for the
Gators on Saturday.
SED REINKE/AP
Junior Jodie Meeks dropped 54 points in a single game earlier this year.

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WRITING COACH/EDITOR--I'M a
Ph.D. author, writer, and psychologist
who can help you generate articles, dis-
sertations, and theses. 734-678-5512.
help wanted
t!t!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We .will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
CASHIERS AND SERVERS needed.
Full or part time. Evening shifts avail-
able. Apply in person after 6pm at
Quickie Burger. 800 S. State St.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply .@
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
ANN ARBOR RECONSTRUCTION-
IST Havurah seeks teacher for our Sun-
day morning religious school for 2009-
2010 academic yr. Exp. with children,
knowledge of Hebrew required. Send
resume to teacherjob@aarecon.org
QUIT SMOKING! $100, patches, &
personalized intervention. Make 3
study
visits including a brain scan.
734.232.0705.

For Wednesday, March 4,.2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This could be an accident-prone day.
Be careful driving and walking. Your
daily schedule will be interrupted in
some way, possibly by meeting unex-
pected people.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Keep an eye on your money today.
You might find money; you might lose
money. Something unpredictable about
your cash flow could occur. Protect your
possessions against minor breakages.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
You feel rebellious and highly inde-
pendent today. Anything could happen.
You will likely act spontaneously on any
whim that you have. You want to please
yourself.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Today you might feel restless and a bit
at loose ends. Don't worry about this,
because it's a passing thing - gone by
tomorrow. It's almost as if there's too
mach electricity in the air
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
A friend will surprise you today.
Alternatively, you might meet somebody,
new who is a real character or quite
unorthodox or bizarre in some way.
(Interesting!)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You don't want to be told what to do
today. You feel rebellious and independ-
ent, especially with authority figures,
teachers, parents and bosses. Expect the
unexpected!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You need a change of scenery. You
want to do something different, and you
also want to learn something new.
Because you're easily bored today,
you're up for something new.

SCORPIO.
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Unexpected gifts and goodies might
come your way today. Conversely,
something you were expecting from
someone might not materialize. Dealing
with the wealth of others is unpre-
dictable.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Partners and close friends are hard to
predict today. They might demand more
space or stand up to you in some way
that's surprising. (You need this like a
fish needs a bicycle.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Interruptions and delays at work are
likely today due to computer crashes,
power outages, fire drills, staff shortages
and unexpected events. Just hang in
there.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 tI Feb. 18)
Surprise flirtitions might be very
exciting today. Parents should be extra
vigilant about children in their care
because this isnan accident-prone day for
your kids.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Guard against breakages at home.
Interruptions to your domestic routine
are likely. Surprise company could drop
byor expected company might be a no-
show.
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
choose to work alone because you prefer
it. You want to be productive; in addition
to this, you're a very caring, responsible
person. You're talented at creating a
home or a comfortable place for yourself
and others. Positive feedback from oth-
ers is meaningful to you. Something
you've been involved with for about
nine years will end or diminish this year.
Birthdate of:. Miriam Makeba, singer;
Charles Goren, bridge master; Catherine
O'Hara, actress.

i2009KingFeaturesSyndicate, Inc.

r


8 - Tuesday, March 3, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Former Wolverines shine in NFL audition

Despite initially low
expectations, Trent,
Jamison and Taylor
strong at Combine
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
INDIANAPOLIS -
The Michigan football team
and San Jose State had an
equal number of invitees
at this year's NFL Combine.
In years past, Wolverines could
impress NFL scouts by school
and name recognition alone. But
this year, they had to stand out
by working hard at their NFL job
interview.
The NFL Combine took place
February 18-24 at the Indianapo-
lis Colts' Lucas Oil Stadium. The
players who are deemed the most
likely to be drafted are invited to
the event each year.
After finishing the 2008 season
with a 3-9 record, Michigan sent
just four seniors to the combine:
defensive tackle Terrence Taylor,
cornerback Morgan Trent, defen-
sive end Tim Jamison and long
snapper Sean Griffin.
Despite the small number of
athletes, the maize-and-blue con-
tingent certainly made its pres-
ence known.
THEIR STRENGTHS AND
WEAKNESSES
Taylor, Michigan's run-stuffing
defensive tackle, saw his produc-
tion fall in his senior season. Jami-
son is caught between being too
small to play defensive end in a 4-3
NFL defense and not being athlet-
ic enough to play the outside line-
backer position in a 3-4, according
to analysts. Trent's ability to cover
and his tackling were both ques-
tioned. And, well, Griffin is just a
long snapper.
NFL Network draft analyst
Mike Mayock said the Wolver-
ines' tough season, especially on
defense, could hurt any prospect's
stock. But that just gave Taylor
and Jamison motivation to prove
the critics wrong.
"I want to show my power, my
explosiveness and my strength,"
Taylor said Saturday before he

worked out. "One of the things
I wanted to show as a defensive
tackle (is) how I can get up the
field fast ... how fast I can cut and
get up field. Those are key things
for an interior defensive lineman."
Taylor, weighing in at six feet
and 300-plus pounds, said his
decrease in production had alot to
do with his position change. As a
junior, Taylor played on the strong
side of the defense. He faced a lot
of running plays, and as a result,
tallied a high number of tackles.
He moved to the weak side his
senior season.
On the other hand, Jamison
wanted to simply do well in the
defensive line drills. Along with
that, he tried to improve his over-
all consistency and patience.
Experts weigh in on Michigan
before workouts
Mayock and ESPN draft expert
ToddMcShayweren'tveryimpressed
by any of the Wolverines before they
worked out at the Combine.
"(Taylor is) quicker for a wide-
body defensive tackle," McShay
said. "And when he plays 100 per-
cent, when he gives a great effort
and when he's fresh, he can be dis-
ruptive. He's inconsistent. ... A lot
of his weaknesses are coachable,
but there are so many busts at that
position because of just that - the
inconsistent motor."
McShay saw Taylor as more of
a 4-3 traditional defensive tackle
and he didn't think Taylor's "style"
would be conducive to taking on
blockers in the 3-4. Mayock saw
Taylor's role as completely differ-
ent and pegged him as a 3-4 defen-
sive tackle.
The experts also had questions
about Jamison.
"(Jamison's) a little bit of a tween-
er between defensive tackle and
defensive end," Mayock said. "And
he's going to have to show somebody
he can play on the outside."
Added McShay: "I think he's
better suited at D-end, probably in
a 4-3.... (He's) toughversus the run,
he's going to do a good job. He's
kind of the opposite of Taylor. He
plays hard every down, (he's) dis-
ciplined, does all the little things.
But he's limited athletically. Not a
great speed rusher."
McShay also said that, while
he was watching tape, he noticed
juniorBrandon Graham reallystood

He had the best time for his posi-
tion in the 60-yard shuttle, com-
pleting the drill in 11.07 seconds.
Trent was also in the top 10 for
the bench press, the vertical jump,
the broad jump and the 20-yard
shuttle. He ran the 40-yard dash
in 4.54 seconds.
Jamison didn't finish as a top
performer in any category. His
draft stock might have been hurt
when he ran the forty-yard dash
in 5.03 seconds. Considering he
checked in at 6-foot-2 and a light
256 pounds, his 40-yard dash time
was expected to be faster.
CARR, RODRIGUEZ AND THE
IMPACT OF THE SPREAD
OFFENSE
When Lloyd Carr stepped
down as Michigan football coach
before last season, Rich Rodriguez
brought his spread offense to Ann
Arbor. That'transition is already
affecting the crop of Wolverines
heading for the NFL.
Jamison downplayed the tran-
sition, citing the fact that the
defense still played a 4-3 forma-
tion. Both Jamison and McShay
said they believe Rodriguez could
turn around the program.
Taylor was a little bit more can-
did about the coaching change.
"It affects us in so many ways,"
Taylor said. "With Coach Carr,
you're familiar with him. You
know what to expect. It makes
everything so much easier. You're
not stressed about things and
(have) less to think about. All you
are worrying about is performing
on the field and school.
"New coach comes in your
senior year. This is your last year.
... You've got to practice a differ-
ent way. So much new, (thrown) on
you in your last year and you've got
to pick it up so fast."
A popular topic at the NFL Com-
bine was the increasing amount of
schools in the NCAA playing the
spread offense. Many coaches and
front-office officials weighed in on
how the NFL would have to adjust
to evaluating the talent developed
in the new style of offense.
"It's a transition," McShay
said. "I think the NFL's adjusting
because it has to. The NFL's devel-
opmental league is college football.
... Tweaking some schemes to get
guys in comfort zones, especially

playing early in their career - it's a
necessity. And it doesn't translate
completely.
"You're not going to see guys
running the zone read and all that
stuff because of the speed."
McShay cited last year's AFC
Championship between Baltimore
and Pittsburgh as an example.
"(The Baltimore Ravens) ran
the inside handoff off the shot-
gun a couple times in the first
half," McShay said. "Second half,
(Ravens' quarterback Joe Flacco)
plucks it, and turns the corner,
looks like he's going for 10, 15
yards. (Steelers safety Troy) Pola-
malu shoots out of a rocket and
takes him for a three-yard loss.
That's why you can't run those
things consistently in the NFL."
McShay also talked about how
wide receivers won't have as much
space to work with as they do in
the spread offense. He also said
the lack of high grades for quar-
terbacks who played in a spread
offense formation shows that most
spread players struggle with the
transition to the NFL. In the pros,
receivers are pressed and forced
to read routes - things that don't
happen when a receiver plays in
the spread offense.
But some things about Michigan
will never change - particularly
the intangibles.
"Everything about Michigan
is professional," Taylor said. "We
don't take shortcuts. We don't
need to cheat our way. We put up
hard work. We play in front of the
most people in the world. Michi-
gan is always in the spotlight.
"You've already been through
it. You've already been inside the
fans that love their football teams.
You've been a part of dealing with
the media every day. You play the
top level at Michigan. So it's an
easy transition (to the NFL)."
The Michigan players tried to
impress NFL scouts and execu-
tives at the NFL Combine and the
Wolverines' draft futures are not
largely out of their hands. But it
is up to the players whether they
excel at the next level.
The advice Carr used to give
Taylor and the rest of the Wolver-
ines reigns true now, more than
ever: "control the controllables."
Presumably, the rest will now take
care of itself.

4

4

4

FILE PHOTO
Morgan Trent finished in the tap 30 in five cornerback events at the NFL Combine.

out and that the talent level between
him and Jamison was "noticeably
different." Graham decided to stay
in Ann Arbor next season.
Trent received the highest
praise of the Wolverine group.
"Trent's a long, lean corner,"
Mayock said. "He's going to run
well. He's a smart kid. He's not
real physical. But he can play in
the league for a while."
COMBINE RESULTS
Thought of as mid-to-late round
selections, the four Michigan

players turned some heads when
the defensive linemen worked out
Monday and defensive backs had
their turn Tuesday.
Taylor took charge by leading all
defensive linemen at the combine
with 37 reps at 225 pounds on the
bench press. He was second among
all players, behind just Texas Tech
offensive lineman Louis Vasquez,
who had 39 reps. Taylor ran the
40-yard dash in 5.27 seconds.
But Trent was the real star for
Michigan, finishing among the top
10 for cornerbacks in five events.


Earn your degree faster by taking summer classes at
OAKLAND UNIVERSITY

If you're spending the summer in the Metro Detroit area, keep moving
toward.graduation as a guest student at Oakland University.
You can choose from 1,000 diverse courses in several convenient sessions -
courses that can transfer to your home institution. Check the Michigan Transfer Network
to learn what courses will transfer at www.michigantransfernetwork.org.
Registration begins March 16. Free applications for guest students are available
online at www.oakland.edu/guest.
At OU, you'll find the total college experience - with challenging academics,
Division I athletics and hundreds of student orgs - all for a great value. You'll quickly
see how OU makes an exceptional education available at a truly affordable price.
And remember, at OU, students don't pay any fees. So when you need
transcripts sent to your home institution, you won't pay a thing!

Oakland offers 129 undergraduate degree programs in:
" Arts and Sciences
" Business Administration
" Education and Human Services
" Engineering and Computer Science
- Health Sciences
- Nursing
Important summer dates:
- Summer full session: May 4 - August 15
- Summer I session: May 4 - June 20
- Summer II session: June 29 - August 15

4

I

4


