A TEDIOUS ART sTPOFF 2009
With metal, acid and oil pastels, Why the Michigan basketball
Takeshi Takahara is recrafting an team is at the doorstep of the
ignored~form 'of prinfmaking.nation s elite and how it got there.
SEE B-SIDE, PAGE1B SEE A
1b4e I I)~ gan 0aij

* Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, November 12, 2009

michigandaily.com

APPLYING TO MICHIGAN
'U' may join
Common
App process

Official says shift
would help attract
larger applicant
pool every year
By ANNIE THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
Current students who remem-
ber the University's distinctive
application process may recall
the many hours spent trying to
complete the form and tackle the
essays. But this February, that
process could become a thing of
the past if the University joins 392
other schools that use the Com-
mon Application.
According to Ted Spencer,
associate vice provost and execu-
tive director of Undergradu-
ate Admissions, the University
has applied to join the Common
Application. If the application
is approved, which Spencer said
he strongly believes will happen,
students will be able to submit the
Common Application as early as
the late summer admissions cycle
of 2010.
The Common Application is an
organization that provides one
application plus school-specific
supplements for colleges and
universities across the country
that subscribe to a holistic review
process.
The University of Pennsylva-
nia, The University of Virginia,
Dartmouth College, Northwest-
ern University and Harvard
University are among the many
schools that currently use the
Common Application.

Spencer said one of the main
reasons the University is switch-
ing over to the Common Appli-
cation is to better compete with
other large public universities
and small private schools that
already use it.
He said he has also heard from
officials at other colleges that
using the Common Application
has improved the quality and
quantity of their applicants.
Spencer said that using the
Common Application would also
attract more students from differ-
ent backgrounds.
"(Applicants) were from differ-
ent socio-economic areas, first-
generation, racial and ethnicities,
international as well as geograph-
ic diversity in terms of the kinds
of volume of applications that
they (other Common Application
schools) received," Spencer said.
Elizabeth Jamett, director of
college counseling for the Uni-
versity Liggett School in Grosse
Pointe, Mich., said the move to
the Common Application will be a
big change because "(The Michi-
gan application) is its own unique
being."
Jamett said that while she is a
"fan" of the Common Application
for prospective students because
it makes their lives easier, she also
noted that it might make it diffi-
cult for admissions officers to dis-
tinguish those students who truly
want to attend the University.
"If I am a student who is apply-
ing to those (Common Applica-
tion) schools, then maybe prior to
the University of Michigan using
the Common App I wouldn't have
necessarily applied to Michigan,"
See APPLICATION, Page 8A

FASHION FULL OF SOUL
SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Kenneth Cole, designer and humanitarian, spoke to students at the School of Public Health yesterday afternoon. In his presentation, Cole focused on how Kenneth Cole Produc-
tions, Inc. has gone from just a fashion label to a socially conscious brand. For a full story on the event, go to our news blog, The Wire, at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire.
MErA RING DIV ERS ITY

Survey brought on
by changes in the
Dept. of Education
data collection
By LIBBY ASHTON
Daily StaffReporter
University officials are inviting
students to update their race and
ethnicity information in an effort
to comply with changes in the way
the U.S. Department of Education
collects and reports race and eth-
nicity information.
The changes will shift the
process of reporting one's racial

information so that participating
students and faculty have to first
identify as either Latino, Hispanic
or neither. After that step, they can
then select from a longer list of
racial categories.
The hope is that with this new
system, historical undercountingof
Hispanic and Latino communities
will be avoided.
The Higher Education Opportu-
nity Act, which was passed on Aug.
14, 2008, is expected to increase
the number of students and fac-
ulty reporting as being Hispanic or
Latino, while decreasing the num-
ber of students reporting all other
racial or ethnic categories..
The law requires changes to be
adopted by 2010.

Lester Monts, seniorvice provost
for academic affairs, informed Uni-
versity students of the change by
e-mail earlier this week and invited
them to update their racial and eth-
nic information through Wolverine
Access.
The University's Committee
on Race/Ethnicity Reporting,
which was created following the
announcement of the changes,
recommended that the University
resurvey its current students and
faculty because there is "no simple
conversion between the old and
new categories," according to a
committee report.
The survey on Wolverine Access
asks University faculty and stu-
dents to identify themselves as

either Hispanic, Latino or neither
and then choose one or more of the
following racial categories: Ameri-
can Indian or Alaskan Native,
Asian, Black or African American,
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific
Islander, and/or White.
If a student decides to identify
as multiple races or ethnic groups
and none are Hispanic or Latino,
the new process doesn't allow that
student to choose a primary identi-
fication.
Gretchen Weir, assistant vice
provost for academic affairs, said
she thinks that despite the option
for multiple identifications, the
new process is limited in its ability
to reflect the variety of ways people
See RACE, Page 7A


THE COST OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS
Rodriguez 14th
highest paid coach
in college football

A DA TRY GOOD TTMF

ANN ARBOR'S NATIONAL BOOKSELLER
Borders to close
200 Waldenbooks,
cut 1,500 workers

USA Today study
finds 25 college
coaches make more
than $2M per year
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
A recent article in USA Today
reported that Michigan head
football coach Rich Rodriguez
will rack up $2,521,000 this
year, making him the 14th high-
est paid coach in college foot-
ball.
The article, which included
a database of all salaries of col-
lege coaches across the country,
also showed that at least 25 col-
lege head football coaches make
annual salaries of $2 million or
more.
The issue of football coach
salaries has been a point of
debate recently in higher educa-.
tion circles.
Some think that coaches are
overly compensated by institu-

tions that are meant to educate
students, despite the fact that
some athletic department bud-
gets - including the University
of Michigan's - are separate
from their academic counter-
parts. Others say that paying top
dollar for coaches is worth what
could be a resulting increase in
ticket sales, television ratings,
overall fan support and school
spirit.
UniversityRegentAndreaFis-
cher Newman (R-Ann Arbor), a
member of the Knight Commis-
sion on Intercollegiate Athlet-
ics - a college sports think tank
- said coaches' salaries are get-
ting increasingly exorbitant.
"Do I think they've gotten out
of hand? I do," she said. "On the
other hand, that's what the mar-
ket calls for."
In an interview yesterday,
University President Mary
Sue Coleman said the Athletic
Department, along with all
other departments at the Uni-
versity, make salary decisions
according to the University's
See COACHES, Page BA

Briarwood Mall
location among the
shuttered stores
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Borders Group, the Ann
Arbor-based bookstore chain,
announced last week that it will
be closing most of its secondary
stores like Waldenbooks, Bor-
ders Express, and Borders Out-
let stores, including the Borders
Express in the Briarwood Mall.
The company also announced
that it will be laying off 1,500
workers.
Out of 330 current mall-based
stores, 200 will be closed. The
stores will remain open for the
holiday season and are expected
to be shut down by the end of
January, according to Borders
spokeswoman Mary Davis.
The list of locations slated to
close is not finaland could change,
according to a news release. The
closures do not include any of the
chain's superstores, including the

Ann Arbor location on East Lib-
erty Street.
Store closings are nothing new
for Borders' smaller stores - 112
Waldenbooks, Borders Express
and Borders Outlet stores were
closed last year. Between 2001
and 2007, an average of 66 stores
were closed annually nationwide,
according to the press release.
"Through this right-sizing, we
will reduce the number of stores
with operating losses, reduce our
overall rent expense and lease-
adjusted leverage and gener-
ate cash flow through sales and
working capital reductions," Bor-
ders Group CEO Ron Marshall
said ina statement.
Davis refused to say why, in
particular, the Briarwood Mall
store is being closed or how many
employees will lose their jobs.
"There are a variety or reasons
thatwe don'tgo into detail on and
we're not disclosing specific rea-
sons," she said.
She added thatthecutswillhelp
the company remain competitive
with other booksellers like Barnes
& Noble and Amazon.com.
See BORDERS, Page BA

Participants enjoy different types of cheeses during a cheese tasting from Grafton
Cheese Company in Grafton, Vt. at Zingerman's yesterday.

WEATHER HI 57 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS......
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Kaplan Test Prep offers deals to Greek community. vol CXX No. 46 O P I N I O N..
TO O R W U 3 nems~qSmichigandaily~cum and let us know. MICH-IGANDAILYCOM/BLOGS/THE WIRE , cSSHThe iymMichigas Gaily SPORTS....
michieedilg e
r 1

........... .......2A CLASSIFIEDS. ...........A
.................4.A THE B-SIDE........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . T B t . 1.B
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. A TIPOFF....................,........ i C


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, November 12, 2009

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: I FRIDAY:

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: i FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Off the Beaten Path Campus Clubs.................Photos of the Week
REPAIRING A RIDE
When students spoke out

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@rvichigaodaiy.com rosdbosinesa C ailtcom.

Though it's not uncom-
mon to see students rally-
ing on the Diag or in front
of the Fleming Adminis-
tration Building, it's rare
to see large-scale protests
during speeches given by
the University's president.
But in 1968, that is pre-
cisely what happened.
During his State of
the University address,
then-President Robben
Fleming was interrupted
by student protestors as
he spoke to 800 invited
faculty members and
their families as well as
150 uninvited students,
according to an Oct. 1,
1968 article in The Michi-
gan Daily.
. The protestors, some of
whom were part of "The

Jesse James Gang", a fac-
tion of Students for a Dem-
ocratic Society, came in
and out of Rackham Hall
in small groups. About five
minutes before the speech
ended, the group entered
the hall together, accord-
ing to the article.
The students inter-
rupted Fleming, calling for
more research and action
on the conflict occurring
in Thailand at the time.
During his speech,
Fleming called for more
student participation
across campus as well as a
stop to the "violence, coer-
cion and threats," accord-
ing to the article.
He also spoke about
funding challenges facing
the University as a result

in an increase in the num-
ber of students on campus.
According to the article,
Fleming said the Universi-
ty was competing for state
funding at the time.
"This year, for the first
time in the history of the
University we were not
able to admit all the Michi-
gan students who meet our
standards of admission,"
Fleming said during the
speech.
He added that he
remained committed to
finding a solution to the
funding problem.
"Presidents like myself
come and go, but the Uni-
versity must remain,"
Fleming said during the
speech.
- CHELSEA LANGE

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance
EDITORIAL STAFF

ofice o rs: San.-rhars. Ii a..-2 a.
ewesOnichis'andaily.com
rorhectailyc~rzichigandaily.oo
ph~oo c ichi'aonaily.on
a rtspage@oniihigandaily.on
opi',io',ihigardaily.een
sports@rrichigandaily.eon- 0
displayinii'andaiy.on
clasi fi ed@ mis iga nda iy. com

finance@mnichigandaiy.com

JAKE FROMM/Dail
Bob Siegert repairs a bike at Campus Student Bike on 336 Maynard St. in Ann Arbor
yesterday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Doodie Decimal Laptop stolen Windows Excel Land-
System from toilet stall workshop navigating clnic

WHEN: Tuesday around 10
a.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library
WHAT: An unknown person
defecated "all over a chair, in
a trash can, and on a table" on
the sixth floor of the library
sometime between 10 p.m.
Monday and 9:40 a.m. Tues-
day, University Police report-
ed. Custodial staff found the
mess and reported it to police.
The damage was estimated at
$100 for general cleanup and
the replacement of the chair.
Neither the table nor the trash
can was replaced. There are
no suspects and police have
closed the investigation.

WHEN: Tuesday around 4:30
p.m
WHERE: Art and Architec-
ture Building
WHAT:A caller reported that
a MacBook Pro laptop was
stolen from a unisex bathroom
stall after leaving it unattend-
ed, University Police reported.
Cellphone stolen
WHEN: Yesterday at about
3:30 a.m.
WHERE: Mason Hall
WHAT: A caller reported that a
friend's cellphone had been sto-
len, University Police reported.
Police arrested a suspicious per-
son nearby who had the phone.

WHAT: A workshop to help
students used advanced
features of Excel 2007 for
their research projects.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today from
3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room
206, Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
Informal
science lecture
WHAT: A lecture on the
public use of informal
science learning such
as museums, television,
books, and the internet.
WHO: Exhibit Museum
of Natural History
WHEN: Tonight at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Alexander G.
Ruthven Museums Bld.

WHAT: Misconception
that wilderness navigation
is a difficult skill to acquire
will be dismissed by show-
ing participants how use
a map and compass.
WHO: Outdoor Adventures
WHEN: Today at 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Out-
door Adventures
CORRECTIONS
. An article in yesterday's
edition of The Michigan
Daily, "'U' NROTC to honor
Navy, Marines with run,"
gave an incorrect year for
the establishment of the
United States Navy and
Marine Corps. They were
established in 1774.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Twelve suspects from
Maryland were accused of
stealing $90,000 worth of
books from 12 public libraries
according to the Washington
Post. The many of the books
were college textbooks that sell
at about $200 each and were
later sold to bookstores and on
the Internet. The stolen texts
have not been recovered.
Freshman guard Darius
Morris picked the No. 4
jersey in honor of former
Michigan basketball star Chris
Webber
"FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE bC
3A man was arrested in
Australia for attempted
robbery of a shopping cen-
ter, according to Metro.co.uk.
He was found asleep in the pro-
cess of picking the lock. He was
has been charged with driving
without a licence, burglary and
attempted burglary.

tourtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@m ichigandaily.com
Jacob SmilovitZ Managing News Editorrsmilovit@michigandaly.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jentm
Skoler,0ylSwnsorrn >,:s,,, 1:, ,,,,, ~~,0l~,Jn
ASSIS:ANT NEWS"EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial PageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE E DITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagnoinSp rrtditor ereid@michigandaily.edm
artjeChas MeszarooRynrPo e ,aO,,e:,ioiaoio
naLica, Ahex Prospery,,roa,
David Watnick ManagioArtoFditor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block. Whitney Pow
AS ARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayerCarotynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,DavidRiv,
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.con
lif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASS[sTrANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Colins, Chris Dzombak, Sam Wolson
AngelaChihand desigr@miobigandaily.con
MaureenGStb MranaioGeignditors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief m itchell@michigandaiy.com
^SSOCIATE COPY CHI EF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak sales Manager
MARKETINGMANAGER: MichaOSchrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:Kayla LaFata
Ben English ProductionManager
Allison Santacrea Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daiy (SN074s-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fa and winter
termsby studentsat theUniversityof Michigan.One copy isavalablefreeo charge toareaders.
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDaiy'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfaltermstarting in
Septembervia U.S.nmalare$110.Winterterm(anuary through Apri)iss11, yearlong eptember
through Aprilis$19.University affiliatesaresubject toareducedsubscription rate.On-campus
subscriptionsforfallItermare$3s.Subsciptionsmusibeprepaid.TheMichiganalyis amemberof
TheAssociatedPressandTheAssociatedColegiatePress.

0

0

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? G 1 ote oonli neat michigaodliply.com/blogs/the wire..



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 12, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON D.C.
Obama rebukes
Afghanistan plans
President Barack Obama does not
plan to accept any of the Afghani-
stan war options presented by his
national security team, pushing
instead for revisions to clarify how
and when U.S. troops would turn
over responsibility to the Afghan
government, a senior administra-
tion official said yesterday.
That pushfollows strongreserva-
tions about a possible troop buildup
expressed by the U.S. ambassador
in Afghanistan, Karl Eikenberry,
according to a second top adminis-
tration official. In strongly worded
classified cables to Washington,
Eikenberry said he had misgivings
about sending in new troops while
there are still so many questions
about the leadership of Afghan
President Hamid Karzai.
Obamaisstillclose to announcing
his revamped war strategy - most
likely shortly after he returns from
a trip to Asia that ends on Nov. 19.
But the president raised ques-
tions at a war council meeting
Wednesday that could alter the
dynamic of both how many addi-
tional troops are sent to Afghani-
stan and what the timeline would
be for their presence in the war
zone, according to the official, who
spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss Obama's thinking.
YPSILANTI, Mich.
EMUto offer in-state
tuition to veterans
Eastern Michigan University
says it will start letting military
veterans from outside the state pay
the lower in-state tuition rates.
The tuition break is available to
veterans with at least one year of
service who receive honorable or
medical discharges.
The Ypsilanti school says the
break applies to 24 credit hours per
year.
Last year, Eastern Michigan
began offeringin-state tuition rates
to active duty members of the U.S.
military.
Universityveterans services Direc-
tor Shaftone Dunklin says the pro-
gram recognizes that members of the
armed forces defend the entire coun-
try and not just individual states.
The university's trustees
approved the EMU Vet Connect
Award at their October meeting.
0 SEOUL, South Korea
Navel clash outcry
North Korea warned South
Korea today that it could face con-
sequences over a naval clash that
occurred between the rival coun-
=tries off their west coast earlier this
week.
The North's government-run
Minju Joson newspaper said in
a commentary that South Korea
would face "costly consequences" if
it continues to assume a confronta-
tional posture against the North.
The commentary, carried by the
officialKoreanCentralNewsAgency,
did not specify what consequences
the South would face if it continues

to provoke tension and blame the
North for the maritime incident.
It said the clash stemmed from a
plot by the South to disrupt direct
talks that are planned between
Pyongyang and Washington by
inspiring anti-North Korea senti-
N'ment among American officials.
WASHINGTON D.C.
Doctors saythey had
-prior concerns about
' $4Fort Hood shooter
A group of doctors overseeing
Nidal Malik Hasan's medical train-
ing discussed concerns about his
overly zealous religious views and
strange behavior months before the
Army major was accused of a shoot-
ing rampage at Fort Hood, Texas,
that left 13 dead and 29 wounded.
Doctors and staff overseeing
Hasan's training viewed him at
times as belligerent, defensive
and argumentative in his frequent
discussions of his Muslim faith, a
military official familiar with sev-
eral group discussions about Hasan
said. The official was not autho-
rized to speak publicly about the
meetings and spoke on condition of
anonymity.
Hasan was characterized in
meetings as a mediocre student and
lazy worker, a matter of concern
amongthe doctors and staff at Wal-
ter Reed Army Medical Center and
the Uniformed Services University
of the Health Sciences, a military
medical school in Bethesda, Md.,
the official said.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

GM looks to Regal and Cruze for profits

Buick Regal and
Chevrolet Cruze
expected to be GM's
top sellers in 2011
DETROIT (AP) - Two General
Motors cars due in showrooms next
year must be hits to help the auto-
maker turn around sales and pay
back its big debt to U.S. taxpayers.
The Buick Regal midsize sedan
and Chevrolet Cruze compact, both
sold in key segments of the U.S. car
market, face stiff competition and
other obstacles to success.
GM was to roll out the Regal on
Thursday in Los Angeles, and it's
counting on the sleek-looking sedan
to claw out a new market for the
once-stodgy Buick, now the official
brand of bingo night at the senior
center.
Buick has been absent from the
tough midsize market since 2004,
while the Cruze was recently put on
hold because GM wasn't happy with
how it drove.
Executives have high hopes
that the Regal, much of it designed
by GM's Opel engineers in Rues-
selsheim, Germany, can help bring
younger buyers to Buick, crucial to

the brand's long-term growth. Cur-
rently the median age of a Buick
customer is around 68, but GM is
targeting new models for those in
their 40s and 50s, said Craig Bierley,
Buick's product marketing director.
"Clearly having a midsize entry
is absolutely critical for us,"Bierley
said.
Buick sales so far this year are
down 33 percent compared with
last year, worse than the overall U.S.
market, which is off 25 percent.
Midsize cars like Toyota's
Camry, the perennial sales leader,
are attractive to young families and
baby boomers who are downsizing
their vehicles. They typically can
haul five people and have decent
trunk space. Also, several entries
get well over 30 mpg on the high-
way, making them the default buy
for those who need space but are
concerned about the return of $4
per gallon gasoline.
So far this year, the midsize seg-
ment is the biggest part of the U.S.
car market, making up 47 percent
of sales. Camry dominates the seg-
ment with 294,000 sales.
GM has no margin for error with
the Regal or any other new vehicle,
said David Koehler, a clinical mar-
keting professor at the University of
Illinois at Chicago.

"Their success in the future is
riding on these new launches," he
said.
The new Regal, due in show-
rooms in the second quarter of next
year, is aimed at those who want a
car that's fun to drive yet is practi-
cal. The Regal has three ride set-
tings (normal sport and touring)
and is smart enough to tailor the
car to the way people drive, Bierley
said.
The Regal is designed to compete
with the sporty Acura TSX made by
the Honda luxury brand, and the
Volvo S60.
Pricing wasn't announced, but
it will be between the mainstream
midsize Chevrolet Malibu at $21,325
and the $27,835 base price of a larg-
er new Buick, the LaCrosse, aimed
at luxury buyers.
The flabby old Regal, discontin-
ued five years ago in partbecause it
couldn't compete with the Camry
and Honda's Accord, bears little
resemblance to the new one, which
Bierley said is equipped only with
four-cylinder engines to boost fuel
economy.
At first the car will have only
one engine choice, a 2.4-liter, 182
horsepower powerplant that gets
around 30 mpg on the freeway. By
next summer, a 220-horsepower

CARLOS OSORIO/AP
The 2011 Buick Regal sedan will be rolled out during an event in Lost Angeles. Gen-
eral Motors officials are counting on its new design to open a new rarket for Buick.

2-liter turbocharged four with
power comparable to a V-6 also will
be available.
Stephanie Brinley, an analyst
with the AutoPacific marketing and
consulting firm, predicts that GM
will sell about 40,000 Regals in its

first full year, not a huge number
but enough to bring critical profits
to GM. Last year, Acura sold almost
exactly 40,000 TSX models.
"It doesn't really matter how
many they sell of the Regal. It mat-
ters if it's profitable," she said.

Reid considers payroll tax hike on wealthy

If adopted, Senate
majority leader's
proposal would fund
health care reform
WASHINGTON (AP) - Majority
Leader Harry Reid is considering
a plan for higher payroll taxes on
the upper-income earners to help
finance health care legislation he
intends to introduce in the Senate
in the next several days, numerous
Democratic officials said yesterday.
These officials said one of the
options Reid has had under review
would raise the payroll tax that
goes to Medicare, but only on
income above $250,000 a year. Cur-
rent law sets the tax at 1.45 percent

of income, an amount matched by
employers.
It was not known how large an
increase Reid, D-Nev., was con-
sidering, or whether it would also
apply to a company's portion of the
tax. President Barack Obama has
said he will not raise taxes on wage
earners making less than $250,000.
The officials spoke only on condi-
tion of anonymity, saying they were
not authorized to disclose details of
private deliberations.
Reid's spokesman, Jim Manley,
declined comment and said the
majority leader has made no final
decisions and is awaiting detailed
information from the Congressio-
nal Budget Office aboutthe cost and
coverage implications of the pro-
posals he has drafted.
Reid sent his proposals to the

CBO more than two weeks ago and
recently took the first step on the
Senate floor to begin a debate on
health care as early as next week.
The House passed its version
of the legislation late last week on
a near party line vote of 220-215,
a victory for Obama as well as his
allies in Congress.
In general, the House-passed
measure and the one Reid is
expected to propose are designed to
expand coverage to tens of millions
of uninsured, eliminate insurance
industry practices such as denying
coverage on the basis of pre-exist-
ing medical conditions, and slow
the overall rate of growth in health
care spending nationally.
Reid has been merging bills
cleared earlier by two separate
committees but has a virtual free

hand in the bill he crafts.
On one contentious issue, he
has already said his measure will
include an option for consumers to
purchase health care from the gov-
ernment asa way to create competi-
tion with private companies. States
could drop out of the system.
The House bill is significantly
more generous in providing subsi-
dies to help lower-income individu-
als and families afford coverage,
and Reid is under pressure to find
additional financing. Addition-
ally, a Senate Finance Committee-
approved proposal to tax very
high-cost insurance policies has
drawn criticism from organized
labor, which wants it either modi-
fied or dropped altogether.
The House-passed legislation
includes a surtax of 5.4 percent on

income above $500,000 for indi-
viduals and $1 million for couples, a
proposal that has drawn little if any
backing in the Senate.
The House's passage of a health
care bill was marked by last-min-
ute controversy over abortion, the
result of far-reaching restrictions
that foes of the procedure suc-
ceeded in inserting into the mea-
sure. Nogovernment-run insurance
plan could cover abortions, except
in cases of rape, incest or if the life
of the mother were in danger. Nor
could any health plan provide abor-
tion coverage except for those three
exceptions if any of its customers
received federal subsidies.
Obama has called for changes to
ease the restrictions, and it was not
knownwhattheimpactoftheHouse-
passedbillwouldhaveonthe Senate.

University of Michigan's
Largest H
Selecton ofREALTY
Selecton of Unitis Aaiiihiiir immediaie Occupaicy
Off Cam pus Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to 14 bedrooms
o u s616 Chrch St.734 995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
H,-,,

President Barack Obama participated in a traditional Veteran's Day ceremony in front of the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arling-
ton National Cemetery before visiting a section of the cemetery for fallen soldiers from the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts,
Obama honors veterans
at Arlington cemetery

Following tradition,
President Obama
leads ceremony at
Tomb of the Unkowns
ARLINGTON, Va. (AP) - On
a cold, rain-soaked Veterans Day,
President Barack Obama walked
slowly through the white, stone
markers at the section of Arlington
National Cemetery reserved for
troops killed in Iraq and Afghani-
stan, the two wars he oversees as
commander in chief.
Obama led the nation yesterday in
observingVeterans Day with atradi-
tionalwreath-layingceremonyatthe
Tomb of the Unknowns at Arling-
ton before an unannounced visit to
the section reserved for those who
fought in Iraq and Afghanistan.
"We gather here mindful that
the generation serving today
already deserves a place alongside
previous generations for the cour-
age they have shown and the sacri-
fices that they have made," Obama
said in a brief speech following the
wreath-laying. Obama pledged he
would do right by all veterans and
families, saying: "America will not
let you down."
The president spoke one day
after honoring the victims of a
shooting rampage at Fort Hood,

Texas. He said he was struck by the
determination of the soldiers there,
a quality that unites generations of
American servicemen.
"To allof them - to our veterans,
to the fallen and to their families -
there is no tribute, no commemora-
tion, no praise that can truly match
the magnitude of your service and
your sacrifice," he said.
ThenationobservedVeteransDay
from remembrances at the nation's
capital to a New York City parade
to ceremonies in towns and cities
across the nation and overseas.
At Camp Eggers in Kabul,ssoldiers
observed a moment of silence for the
more than 800 U.S. service members
have died in Afghanistan, Pakistan
and Uzbekistan since the 2001 inva-
sion to oust the Taliban regime.
The Navajo Code Talkers
were special guests at the New
York parade's opening ceremony,
where a wreath was laid at the
World War I Eternal Light Monu-
ment in Madison Square Park. As
young Marines during World War
II, the Code Talkers used secret
Navajo language-encrypted mili-
tary terms that the Japanese were
never able to crack.
As the Code Talkers were intro-
duced, the crowd - which includ-
ed World War It veteran and actor
Tony Curtis - let out a loud cheer.
Boston College dedicated a
70-foot-long granite wall bearing

the names of 209 alumni who lost
their lives while serving in a war
zone. Bells tolled in three sets of 11
from the college's historic Gasson
Tower, symbolizing the exact time
that an armistice was declared in
World War I. Harvard unveiled a
plaque on campus to honor the uni-
versity's alumni who have received
the Medal of Honor. The university
has 16 winners.
Hundreds of Minnesota military
veterans and family members filled
a community center gymnasium
in the suburbs of St. Paul to hear
words of thanks from state political
leaders. The ceremony drew vet-
erans ranging from young enlisted
soldiers to retired generals.
"The title of veteran deserves
great respect in America," Minne-
sota Gov. Tim Pawlenty said. "Vet-
eran stands for a life dedication to
our nation's greatest cause - the
cause of freedom."
Among the deadin the Fort Hood
shooting rampage was Pfc. Kham
Xiongof St. Paul. He was mentioned
in several speeches Wednesday and
singled out for recognition during
the invocation.
An American Red Cross event
in Washington kicked off the start
of a program called Holiday Mail
for Heroes, which lets the public
send holiday greeting cards that
aren't addressed to a particular
service member.

PRESENTS
'PNATAION'
vIe-rOR(A's scKar
THURSDAY, Nov.12
7:30-9PM @ Necto I Tickets: $5
First60toarveglatagoodieba aifyoulikewhat useealtheshowhere il
be a rafleforsome of the n w othing!
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO
Stay afterwards for the after party in the Red Room!
Spefia haiiks toMednaNeco Dormnos. and Above Ground'


4A - Thursday, November 12, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ADRIAN AT AWCHOY@UMICH.EDU

L 4e IWC4l*Qan4:3al*lu

ADRIAN CHOY

- I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
i p Ann Arbor, MO 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Stop Stupak,
Health care reform shouldn't infringe on abortion rights
H ealth care reform is supposed to improve the inequities of
medical treatment in the United States. Initially, health
care reform was about bringing the sub-par health of this
wealthy nation's impoverished citizens up to the higher standards
found in other countries. But concession after troubling concession
has led to a bill so full of holes that its passage in the U.S. House
*of Representatives is only a meager victory. The bill approved by
the House includes a last-minute amendment that bars any feder-
ally subsidized insurance plan from covering abortions. This would
disproportionately affect the ability of low-income women - those
most at-risk for unwanted pregnancies - from obtaining abortions,
and Congress must not allow abortion rights to be curbed through
so-called health care reform.

D4I.-Y P i d
Take this absurd visual metaph
assign arbitrary labels to it, and y
cartooning like the pro's in no
"The hamburger of
(thing/idea) lures
the (social group)
under the boxof
(something bad)."

Ccirt-ooM!s
or and
ou'll be
time!

0
0

_ _ --" ._

There should be blood

The Affordable Health Care for America
Act passed the House in a 220-215 vote on
Saturday night, managing to salvage the
hotly contested public insurance option,
provisions for the creation of a national
insurance exchange and new laws prohib-
iting insurance companies from dropping
sick patients. But in exchange, Speaker of
the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) allowed
the passage of the Stupak Amendment ban-
ning health insurance subsidized by federal
dollars from covering abortions
An earlier bill would have only segre-
gated funds used to pay for abortions from
the money coming from the federal govern-
ment, in keeping with 30 years of precedent
against federally funded abortions.
The approved bill would ultimately make
it harder for middle and lower class women
to obtain an abortion. Half of women receiv-
ing health insurance through their employ-
ers have policies covering abortion. With
the introduction of federally subsidized
insurance available to any family of four
making less than $88,000 per year, insurers
would quickly move to make their plans eli-
gible for federal support. To keep costs low,
women or their employers would have to
switch to subsidized health plans without
abortion coverage.
More disturbingly, since the bill would
require most Americans to purchase insur-
ance or face a penalty, low-income women

able to afford only a low-cost government
plan would be forced to buy one without
abortion coverage. In other words, the gov-
ernment would compel women to spend
what little resources they have on a health
plan without a choice in its coverage of
abortion, making abortions unaffordable
and inaccessible to low-income women. The
result would be an unacceptable diminution
of abortion rights for women at the low end
of the economic ladder.
Influential organizations including the
United States Conference of Catholic Bishops,
which for decades pushed for health reform,
are now so determined to impose their agenda
that they consider the anti-abortion amend-
ment more important than health reform
itself. But the health care debate shouldn't be
hijacked by opponents of abortion rights. The
concessions to this interest group have only
hindered what should be a common interest in
promotingAmerican health.
With millions of uninsured people in the
United States, health reform is certainly
important. But reform should not be accom-
panied by laws that scale back a woman's right
to choose what to do with her body. Health
care reform should empower low-income
Americans to live healthier, more produc-
tive lives - not limit their options. Congress
should support health care reform and abor-
tion rights by agreeing to a bill that promotes
both positions.

Afew days ago, as I walked
to class through the Diag, a
prightly girl in red asked me if
I would like to save
a life. I didn't have
much time to talk to
her, but with a plug
like that, she wasn't
easy to ignore. She
said she was a rep-
resentative from
Blood Battle, the
blood drive com-
petition between MATTHEW
Michigan and Ohio GREEN
State, and asked
me if I would like
to sign up to donate
blood. I would certainly love to give, as
I did in high school, but I chose not to
register because I knew I would ulti-
mately be turned away.
Bynow, it'sbeen well publicized that
the American Red Cross does not allow
openly gay men to donate blood. Dur-
ing the preliminary questioning before
giving, potential male donors are asked
if they've had sex even just one time
with another man since 1977. And if
the answer is yes, that potential donor
is forbidden from donating that day
and forever thereafter. Over the past
few years in particular, gay advocacy
groups have criticized the Red Cross
for this policy.
But in truth, the Red Cross isn't real-
ly to blame for this blatant prejudice.
In 2006, the Red Cross and two other
blood organizations deemed the policy
of banning gay blood both unscientific
and discriminatory, and encouraged
the Food and Drug Administration to
review the case. But the following year,
the FDA reiterated its stance that the
threat of transmitting HIV from gay
menwas too risky. Keep in mindthat as
a federal agency, the FDA was answer-
ing to the Bush Administration in

2007, when it issued its last statement
regarding gay blood donation. Perhaps
it's time for the FDA to readdress the
issue in our current era of greater sci-
entific freedom.
It's clear that the existing policy
inequitably isolates gays. Just because
gay men are slightly more likely than
other demographics to be HIV positive
does not mean they should be barred
from giving blood altogether. African-
Americans are almost ten times more
likely to be HIV positive than Cauca-
sians, but they are still encouraged to
donate. And, of course, all of that is
superseded by the fact that each unit
of blood is tested for seven different
antibodies within the blood, includ-
ing HIV. If it's healthy, it's used - if
it's tainted, it's not. Why can't the same
method be applied for the blood of
homosexual men?
New scientific advances have made
it possible to detect HIV within in
a year of infection. Taking that into
consideration, if it's necessary at all to
address the threat of HIV expressly
from gay men, the policy should only
reject potential donors who have
engaged in risky male-to-male sexual
conduct during the previous year.
Then again, the policy ought to
reject any potential donor who has
engaged in a risky sexual act dur-
ing the previous year, regardless of
orientation. Why should a gay man
who maintains healthy sex habits be
rejected when promiscuous straight
men are permitted to give? Possible
heterosexual risky situations abound,
particularly in a college setting, and yet
they hold no water when compared to
sex between two men.
Until the policy of discrimina-
tion changes, gay men must choose
how they want to react to the policy.
Organizing a joint straight-gay boy-
cott wouldn't be good publicity when

a blood shortage already plagues the
health care system. And simply lying
during the donor pre-screening might
increase the units of blood collected,
but only at the expense of the fight for
equality.
Instead, gay men ought to go donate
with their gay friends and resign
themselves to being turned down and
blacklisted, one by one. Doing so, par-
ticularly en masse, would symbolize
the amount of potential blood lost and
would send a signal to the establish-
ment in favor ofpolicy change.
Why I couldn't
Stop to save a life
on the Diag.

9

0

Or, dear gay brethren, if you're feel-
ing bold, start out by saying you're
straight. Have your blood drawn, and
then tell them once your blood is in the
bag that you just remembered fooling
around with another guy 10 years ago.
That way, they'll have to pour out your
perfectly useful donation, or, though
it's less likely, they'll pass your blood
along in their own private act of defi-
ance. In either case, the triviality ofthe
policy will be dramatized in an effec-
tive form of protest.
At the end of the day, in the face of
blood shortages across the country,
accepting gay blood donations could
save more lives - making what could
have been tragedies just that much
more sanguine.
- Matthew Green can be reached
at greenmat@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, William, Butler, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Patsy overlooks successes of consideration in our evaluation of them.
the Soviet Union Jackson Hagen
LkSA freshman

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Defending reproductive rights

0

TO THE DAILY:
Vincent Patsy's column takes the position
that the history of the Soviet Union illustrates
the flaws inherent in socialism, and that the
United States is currently in danger of dupli-
cating its failed policies (The price ofsocialism,
11/10/2009).
Even ignoring the absurdity of the claim
that the most toothless of social-democrat-
ic policies constitute communism, Patsy is
wrong in his analysis. Many of the flaws of the
Soviet Union can be more easily understood
in the context of its history. A third-world
nation of peasants elevating itself to become
one of the world's most powerful nations and
achieving one of the most dramatic increases
in life expectancy in world history are pretty
impressive accomplishments. It's also inter-
esting that life expectancy in Russia has fallen
significantly since the overthrow of the Sovi-
ets and the subsequent liberalization of the
economy.
Apparently, transitioning to Patsy's free
market system has not been as beneficial for
the people of the former Eastern Bloc as his
rhetoric about the innate justness of profits
and prices would have you believe.
Additionally, although there are indeed
imperfections in even the most wisely-run
planned economy, I believe in the idea of hav-
ing decisions related to production made by
the people, or those representing them, rather
than by private businesses who are respon-
sible for their own profits first - usually at
the expense of others. Now I am certainly not
saying that the Soviet society was the work-
er's paradise that its leaders claimed they
were attempting, because there were obvi-
ously many things for which the USSR can
and should be criticized. But it's important
not to limit our attention to certain policies of
nations calling themselves socialist that are
emphasized and distorted by U.S. propaganda,
such as the example of the Berlin Wall refer-
enced in Patsy's column. Rather, we should
take all aspects of these attempts to create
an alternative to the capitalist model into

Athletic Department should
ban homophobic chants
TO THE DAILY:
Larry Havilla's viewpoint highlights sexist
and homophobic harassment that I have tried
to address for years (Keep homophobia out of'U'
sports, 11/02/2009).
A few years ago, when I was interviewing Uni-
versity athletes about team harassment based on
sexual orientation, the captain of a men's varsity
team told me that each practice was filled with
slurs such as "homos", "faggots" and "queers".
When a team member left the team without
giving a reason for his departure, the other mem-
bers guessed that he was living in the closet and
could not endure the harassing comments he
heard daily.
A couple of years ago, during the question-
and-answer period at a public panel on whether
student athletes should be role models of ethical
behavior, I suggested that the administrators,
coaches and trainers of the Athletic Department
and Department of Recreational Sports ought to
serve as role models and condemn the homopho-
bic conduct of athletes at workouts and similar
conduct of spectators at athletic events. Athletes
should also be requested to engage in workshops
on gender identity, gender expression and sexual
orientation.
While racist chants would not be allowed,
Andy Reid's SportsMonday column (I shouldn't
have been kicked out of YostIceArena this weekend,
11/09/2009) and Nord Christensen's letter to the
editor (Author led 'C-Ya' chant, 11/10/2009) make
it clear that sexist and homophobic chants are per-
mitted if not encouraged at hockey games at Yost.
I welcome Andy Reid's suggestions to the Ath-
letic Department re-diminishing, if not halting,
these chants.
I hope the new athletic director will assertively
address this concern.
Jim Toy
Co-Founder, Spectrum Center

f you have been even halfway
plugged to the health care debate
this week, chances are you have
caught wind that
many women and
their allies are not
happy about the
recent bill. H.R.
3962, the Afford-
able Health Care
for America Act,
passed with a vote -
of 220-215 this past
Saturday night. It ROSE
is an achievement AFRIYIE
insofar as poli-
cymaking occurs
at the speed of
molasses and we finally have a health
reform bill - that includes a public
option, ends pre-existing condition
discrimination and extends health-
care to 36 million Americans - that
has been punted to the Senate. But
one small step for healthcare reform
has meant one giant leap back for
womankind.
The current plan prevents millions
of women from buying insurance
plans that cover abortions, which
impacts particular women who would
seek to purchase a plan in the insur-
ance exchange or through the public
option. At issue is the Stupak-Pitts
Amendment, a last-minute write-in
that bans federal monies from being
spent on health plans that cover abor-
tions except in the instance of rape,
incest and life endangerment of the
mother.
For those who are getting ddjb-
vu, read the fine print. The infamous
Hyde Amendment enacted in 1976
prevents federal monies from being
spent on abortion - not insurance
plans that cover them. The Stupak
Amendment ups the ante and deals a
blow to insurance plans. As the name
of the bill implies, bringing down the
cost of insurance plans was one of the
main objectives of reform. But this
amendment creates an environment

where women must choose between
a more affordable plan and a private
insurance plan that will likely be less
affordable but more comprehensive
in its reproductive health offerings.
Some of us work-world bound
women may feel spared from all this
drama because we assume that the
professions we are headed for will
provide comprehensive coverage.
Not so fast, missy. The House bill's
health care proposal imposes taxes
on employers that provide coverage
for their employees that could be
up to eight percent of their payroll.
While there is no way to know for
sure, employer-sponsored coverage
isn't necessarily guaranteed in your
salaried profession. After this is over,
women in large numbers may need
to rely on public plans. Why should
these plans not give them compre-
hensive reproductive health care
options?
I wouldn't be so miffed about this
doggone Stupak Amendment if its
institution hadn't ousted a perfect-
ly sound compromise on abortion.
Under the previous compromise, for-
merly known as the Capps Amend-
ment, the insurance exchange would
provide one insurance plan, in every
area of the country that covered
abortions and one that didn't cover
abortions. In keeping with the Hyde
Amendment, it would have subsi-
dized abortions through co-pay-
ments and insurance premiums in
the event that a woman needed this
medical procedure. At the behest
of the almighty Catholic lobby, and
pusillanimous Democrats who keep
late hours in terror of 2010's election
cycle, this compromise was gutted.
This past Monday, President
Obama expressed to ABC News
his dissatisfaction with the Stupak
Amendment. "There needs to be
some more work before we get to the
point where we're not changing the
status quo," he said. To do this, the
Senate must reinstate the previous

compromise.
As a sexual health advocate, it's
not lost on me that many abortions
represent the possible transmission
of an otherwise preventable STI or
unplanned pregnancy. The truth is,
underneath this long-held stalemate
we all truly want, are positive sexual
health outcomes and children that
are planned and prepared for. While
abortion is often a point of virulent
disagreement, there are certainly

On abortion,
compromise is
most desirable.
ways to promote informed consent to
sex that meet the objectives of anti-
abortion and abortion-rights folks.
These policies have the benefit of
being outside of pressing health care
reform and allow us to work together
to promote strong families and effi-
cient government spending.
One current plan of this sort js
H.R. 3312, the Preventing Unintend-
ed Pregnancies, Reducing the Need
for Abortion, and Supporting Parens
Act. This act prioritizes low-income
pregnant women and girls and calbs
for an increase in access to health
care, contraception and sex educa-
tion. Abortion-rights opponents
should know that restricting a wom-
an's ability to use her own money to
make decisions that she and her doC-
tor see fit for her body, her family and
her faith are not the way to reduce
the number of abortions in America.
Policies where coalitions are possible
will lead to meaningful progress in
American politics.
- Rose Afriyie can be reached
at sariyie@umich.ed.

a

0
a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 12, 2009 -SA

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Walk-on linebacker Kevin Leach led the Wolverines in tackles (11) in the Wolverines' 38-13 loss to the Fighting Illini. Leach started the last two games at middle linebacker.
"Blue'sLswilbttse
by huge Wsosn0ln

By ANDY REID Ezeh was burned on a 60-yard
Daily Sports Editor touchdown pass from Penn State
quarterback Daryll Clark to tight
Besides the uniforms and the end Andrew Quarless.
pregame entrance, there are very And Rodriguez has been
few similarities between today's impressed with the redshirt soph-
Michigan football team and the omore. Leach even graded out
one run under legendary coach Bo higher than any other defensive
Schembechler. player when the coaches broke
But there are a few ways in down the film of the Illinois game.
which the old coach's voice is still But the Wisconsin offense,
heard through the football build- which Michigan will square off
ing that is named after him. against this weekend, is a different
In the book "Bo's Lasting Les- monster altogether.
sons," Schembechler said, "I didn't "Wisconsin's style is a little
care if you were a sophomore or a different than a lot of teams,"
senior, a walk-on or an All-Amer- Rodriguez said in his Tuesday
can ... if you played your position teleconference. "But they make no
the way I wanted you to play it, bones about it: They've got a huge
you'd start. That simple." offensive line and tight ends and
Current coach Rich Rodriguez, backs, and they're going to come
a former walk-on at West Virginia, right down and impose their will
has started two walk-ons - safe- on you and try to control the game
ty Jordan Kovacs and linebacker withtheirrungame and doenough
Revin Leach - over scholarship in the passing game with bootlegs
players this season. And the simi- and stuff to keep you honest."
larities don't end there. A more traditional smashmouth
Schembechler often kept a team, the Badgers' starting offen-
fluid depth chart, moving players sive line is enormous, weighing
up based on the week's practice. in at an average of more than 321
Rodriguez has done the same with pounds -55 pounds more than the
Kovacs and Leach this season, giv- average starter on the Michigan
ing the two nine combined starts. defensive line.
Due to a decimated secondary In addition, Wisconsin's John
and junior Troy Woolfolk's return Clay, a bruising downhill running
to cornerback fromsafety, Kovacs's back, is one of the Big Ten's larg-
starting job may be secure for the est backs at 248 pounds. He leads
rest of the season. But Leach, who the Big Ten in rushing and is one of
has started the last two games in just 25 players in the country who
place of the team's active leader is averaging more than 100 yards
in career tackles, Obi Ezeh, the per game on the ground.
future is a lot less certain. "He doesn't lose yards," Rodri-
Leach was brought in at middle guez said. "You've got to tackle
linebacker for the Illinois and Pur- him. He's not going to fall down.
due games because his quickness You'd better get a lot of people
and athleticism were a good match around him. It's hard for one guy,
against the spread-based offens- as big as he is, strong, fast. You
es. The switch came a week after know, the 0-line, tight ends, are

monsters. They're huge. We're a
small team anyway, defensively
particularly. So that's a lot of con-
cerns for us."
The smallish Leach, at six-foot,
200 pounds, may not be effective
against the Badgers potent ground
game, and Ezeh's strengths may
play more into the Wisconsin
attack.
"Kevin's about 200 pounds,
where Obi is 230, so there's a natu-
ral difference in speed and those
things, there," Rodriguez said yes-
terday. "Kevin's a physical guy, and
Obi can run pretty well. For us, I
don't think our scheme has been
finalized yet. I would expect both
of those guys playing quite a bit.
"We don't know yet (who will
start). We won't know yet defen-
sively at a couple positions until
probably Friday."
With their sheer size, the Bad-
gers have dominated and. worn
down teams all season. They cur-
rently rank fifth nationally - and
first in the Big Ten - in time of
possession, controlling the clock
for more than 30 minutes a game.
For the Wolverines, who rank
118th out of 120 Football Bowl Sub-
division teams in that category,
finding the right scheme and the

right personnel to slow down Clay
is the key to whether they can find
that elusive, bowl-clinching sixth
win this weekend.
"They're going to try to con-
trol the game," Rodriguez said.
"And we're not a very big team and
right now, we've struggled defen-
sively with teams that come right
at us. So we've got to try to find an
answer."
Of course, Michigan has been
trying to find that answer all sea-
son, especially in the second half.
The Wolverines have given up
more than 70 combined points
after the break in the last three
games. Rodriguez thinks cycling
in more players may slow the Bad-
gers' attack, but with such a young
team, even that will be trouble-
some.
"This game, we're going to have
to play more guys, because we
know they're going to pound us,"
Rodriguez said.
"The defensive staff hasn't felt
comfortable that the younger guys
behind (the starters) are ready to
play. I don't think it's fair to put
them in there just for the sake of
putting them in there. You could
destroy their confidence if they go
in and they're not quite ready."

Berenson
reflects on
Kampfer hit
By RYAN KARTJE for this story, is believed to be one
Daily Sports Writer of the reasons for implementing a
new credential system soon after
It was a night full of images that that required a special clearance
the Michigan hockey team would to be in certain areas of Yost Ice
like to forget. Arena.
Defenseman Steve Kampfer "I can't coach the parents,"
lying motionless on the ice after Berenson said of the breach at the
an illegal slash. His father, Bruce, time. "I called (Michigan State)
charging into the visitor's locker coach (Rick) Comley and I apolo-
room to confront Michigan State gized for the security around
forward Corey Tropp, one of the the bench and around the locker
perpetrators of the on-ice assault room.... We've had no incidents up
against his son. And all of Yost Ice until now in the back locker room.
Arena watching Kampfer stunned That's why we put the locker room
as the events slowly unfolded. there, so there'd be no crossover of
But with the incident of last players and fans, and no skirmish-
year's Jan. 24 game against the es at the end of games or between
Spartans nearly 10 months behind periods. So it's been fine. But obvi-
them, the Michigan coaches are ously ... they're dealing with it."
confident that their team has Today, with newer safety mea-
moved on from the emotional hap- sures in place, Berenson says he
penings of that night. can understand the emotional
"The incident last year was outburst of a father seeing his son
unfortunate, it was uncalled for, assaulted on the ice.
and it was dealt with well on the "Parents are emotionally
other end," Michigan coach Red charged, and they don't have the
Berenson said. "As far as we were same rules we do on the ice,"
concerned, it's over. It never car- Berenson said.
ried over after that, and it won't CCHA Associate Commissioner
carry over this year." Fred Pletsch called Michigan's
So with the emotional charge approach to handling the security
of an in-state rivalry, coupled with situation "proactive" and noted
last year's events, Berenson made that the CCHA did notchave to step
it a point to emphasize that this intoimplementanyadditionalpen-
year's matchup against the Spar- alties or suspensions after Comley
tans will be a testament to playing suspended Tropp and accomplice
clean and focused hockey. Andrew Conboy for the remainder
"(Last year's incident) happened of the season.
when a team was losing, and they But with Tropp now the leading
got frustrated,"Berenson said. "You scorer in the CCHA, reminders of
saw a little bit of that from us last last year's incident will be abound
weekend (against Miami), and if I as the Spartans return to Yost Ice
have anything to say about it, and I Arena, even with the team's assur-
do, there won't be any more of it." ance that it is behind them.
And the CCHA assumes the "That's behind everybody,"
same thing, especially after mea- assistant coach Mel Pearson said.
sures have been taken to limit "The two players, Tropp and
repercussions off the ice, like what Kampfer, they've put that behind
happened last season. them as well. The most important
The confrontation with Bruce thing is getting the three points in
Kampfer, who declined comment the hockey game."
When your boss is after your fiancee,
some scheming is in store!
. The Marriage of
Fi garoe
By Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Lorenzo da Ponte

Sung in Italian with projected English translations
University Opera Theatre directed by Robert Swedberg
University Symphony Orch. conducted by Kenneth Kiesler
Nov. 12 at 7:30 PM - Nov. 13 & 14 at PM -Nov. 15 at 2 PM
Power Center - Tickets $24 and $18 - Students $g with ID
League Ticket Office - 734-764-2538
nIvi-ai IlY F'NIIIIAN*
S Submit Comments
The University of Michigan - Ann Arbor (U-M) invites you to be an
active participant in its review for re-accreditation by submitting your
comments about the University to the Higher Learning Commission
(HLC) of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools
(NCA), its regional agency for accreditation. The U-M has been
accredited by the HLC/NCA since 1913.
On March 15-17, 2010, the U-M will undergo a comprehensive
evaluation visit by a team appointed by the HLC. The team will
review the U-M's ongoing ability to meet the HLC's criteria for
accreditation and the University's special emphasis study on the
topic of internationalization. More information is available at
www.accreditation.umich.edu. The HLC seeks comments that
address substantive matters related tothe quality of the U-M and its
academic programs.
To submit comments online:
latttp //s 'vs ncah l<;rg (click on "File Third Party Comments")
Q r send written comments to:
Public Comment on the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
The Higher Learning Commission
30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 2400
Chicago, IL 60602-2504
You must provide your name, address, and telephone number.
The HL C does not treat comments from the public as confidential.
All comments must be received by February 1, 2010.


0' 0 0


The Michigan Dailv - mirhigandlailv enm

6A-Thursday, November 12, 2009

FOR SALE
FOR SALE: 4 tickets for Ohio State
game, section 7, row 84, $70 each.
Call Bill at 858-350-5182
PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmspropQsbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
AUTOMOTIVE
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
1993 PONTIAC GRAND AM Se
****REDUCED****
Sporty, dependable ride $1295
810-229-9750 www.cmas.com
1994 FORD EXPLORER 4 door
****REDUCED****
4x4, runs great $899
810-229-9750 www.cmas.com
1997 DODGE INTREPID
****REDUCED***
Dependable Transportation $899
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
****REDUCED****
Flex fuel engine. Sharp looking $1695
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
2003 TOYOTA COROLLA $6999
Like new, Excellent Gas-saver
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
1993 CHEVY BLAZER 4x4
runs great, $899
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
FOR RENT
! 3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
Fuar, high ceilings, hardwood firs,
deck off back, on site parking, heat &
water incl. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.umcampuslousing.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
pdated beautifully fuanished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES 1!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat umich edu,
www.nancylat.com
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010 !!
713 Church- 3 bedroom house
Across from East Quad- near B School
2 kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, laun-
dry, on site prkg. Avail as frn./iafurn.
no pets, no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-
1244 or cimgtlc yahoo.comu
www.churchstretreitals.com

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
i- edom apts.
s t a a99 n
FRE ellite TV
1710 Ir ghw eedI nternet
A titisincluded
FtllyFrished r
bdm nh Washer/Dryer
Ask how you can receive
$150 ift card and
FREE LUNCH!
tsw '$70. Cll46H 72Es
" COURTYARDS "
S T U DE N T APA R TME NTS
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.cm
!! CAMPUS FALL 2010. Large 6
bdrm. hse. Walnut St., near mudbowl.
Pv k fdrn 6arita & n/ea nou.
Frn dr. , 2 basytral asy onAl
new! $m w00/moall 426 47 2 ask
for Jim
S !AOE 3OUdEm PTs!! 2 & 3 .
bdrms lots of closet space, flat sreen
tAs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!! 6-BDRM, 2 Bath. Colonial on
CENTRAL CAMPUS (1143 S.Forest
Ave.). 5 min. walk to college with 2 Re-
frigerators/Microwave/Toaster/Sink/
Free laundary/Private deck/Ample park-
ing.7(MAY 2010)-Call(734)5784625.
!!!AWESOME 3 bdmi house. Avail.
on Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free prkg,
ndry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
!!AWESOME 4 bdnr near B-school.
Free prkg. indry. Avail. Fall 10-
734.223.7777.
AVAILABLE NOW OR January 1 or
2 bdrn. on S. Forest near South U. 734-
996-2836.
WIT EVRY EW Studio & 1
S Bdrm Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
viw coul bae yors a seur our
734-663-1530-
*NOW Leasing FOR 210 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*CARRIAGE HOUSE* NEXT
baths flatscreentv,dihashrmd
9300 fu t m rborapartments net
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DR INK
WIT H EVERY NE W 7OUR. Studio
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could be yours - secure your
apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info&u-towers.com

$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
1, 2, 3 BD APARTMENTS available
for FALL 2010. 915 SOUTH DIVI-
SION, Apartments are north of Hoover
and south of Benjamin, acrss from El-
bel Field, Furnished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. IBD-$840
2BD-$1100, 3BD-$1750, Spacious
Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2management/s comcast.net
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllcorcomcastnet
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband u/archrealtyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
1205 E. UNIVERSITY. Avail. Fall
2010. 6 Irg bdrm. Furn., free prkg/ldry.,
3 full baths, Irg. common room., dw-
shr. $3650. 248-374-1688.
1 4 BDRM House w/ 6+ prkg 1512
Geddes. 3 full baths, New window &
Carpet; $2100 Avail Sept. 2010;
Contact Info: (734)776-0646
liu.propertiesyahoo.com
- ~REALTY
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Houses
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
917 S. State
722 Packard
705 S. Division
7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn

12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
For details call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
WwW.archrealtyco.com

Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
- Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!'
'Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
12 BEDROOMS + Study Unique early
1900's old Ann Arbor Mansion located
I block from campus near S. Division
and E. William. Furnished, Hardwood
Floors, Parking, Laundry, and extra spa-
cious living and Dining rooms. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctraband4/archrealtyco.com.
4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenofts.com
! 6-8 Bedroom Large Houses !
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 Whie S. & 1237
White Sreet. Close to campus. Fan..
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
firs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
5! AVAILABLE FALL2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautifu, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnised/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg free heat & water Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cisgtllcd~yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
MI -
Univer ity
Towe.r
Voted "Best
Apartments
in 20091
Reserve your
fully-furnished room,
studio, 1, 2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 201012011.
Save your style!
" Heat & Water Included
" Fitness Center & Pool
" 24 Hr. Lobby Aftendent
" Secure Entry Building
" Central U-M Campus
"uFree Food & More!
536 S. Forest Ann Arbor
734-7612680
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrentalcom or call (734) 260-
7215.
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/no. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.

4 BDRM BI-lesel near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchsess, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
the Vm,
-owed and 01
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net

PRESENTS THy
Online Classj f"ied
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
5 BDRM. FALL '10. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & idry. 5 min. walk to
Union. $2450 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. No coin laundry, front/
back porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248)910-2286.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE 1 block from
Rackham, 2 blocks from the Medical
Center, Great for Nursing Students!
Furnished house with 2 kitchens, 4
bathrooms, Dishwasher, and parking.
Located near E. Ann and Ingalls. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctrabanddyarchreatyco.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptner@comcast.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
waww.varsitymanagement.com
Management
625 Church St
1734) 668-1100
11095. State St
5-Bedroom House
Finished Basement
Beautiful hardwood floors,
rightaerssthestreetfromtheIM
building,plentyofparking!
921 PACKARD. 3 story. Fall '10. Oc-
cupancy for 6. Ldry. & prkg. 272-1320.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fal. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net'
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.suiblet.coi
The Choice is Yours!
Now Renting Immediately
" r, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
" 2 City Parks on Property
- High Spued Internet
- AATA Bus Line
" Fitness Center
Covered Parking
Flexible Lease Terms
" Apartments & Town Homes
- Pool & Sauna

SPets Wel come
" 24-1-r. Em ergency Maintenance
" Beautiful Grounds
* Business Center'
" ShuttleVan to DowntownAA
" Wi-Fi Ready
*Restrictions Apply
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
734-663-7633
www.woodburggardens.com
*Amenties Van,
.by yProperty

Now Leasing for
I May 201 0!! I
3 an8d 4 edroomsavailale!
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pies/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
May 3-bed apt!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
it houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/tndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllca7,comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm
1133 White-7 bdrm
734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking.a Formore information cll
Lam at Curh Street Aparmets,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
WHY RENT WHEN you cast Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in he rea.
www.tSellA2.coc 734-476-9768
FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 510 Catherine $3700
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415N.Thayer $3600
6 418N.$State $3600
6 605 E. Hoover $3600
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800'
4 509 Sauer Ct $2000
4 809 Sybil $2240

4 1117 S.Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO
73 4-996-1991

S
0

Forest Edge Apartments
1315 Hill St.

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 38 Vidal's 54 Not even tipsy
1 FBI sting that 1 Type of elec. Breckinridge 55 "Faust
began during adapter 40 Remain undecided Symphony"
Carter's 2 Afghanistan's 41 Pirouette composer
presidency Tora __region 43 Inflicton 56Physicist
7 in this way 3 Huskies' burden 46 Gathered up Bohr
11 Tapped-out 4 School group 49 When Rome 60 Swarm insect
message 5 Help wasn't built? 61 Nestie cereal
14 Sheep herder 6 Serious threat 50 Play to __: draw beverage
15010ld0Wo4l Style 7 U~nauthorizedl h1 Off-colnr 12 High schouler
sauce maker absentees T pitha a Hz horg er
16 Hawaiian Punch I Broom rider 53 Trump w a"1e6Jazzoorg.?
rival 95Eclaumatiun with Fis iesCu'1itla""
17 A-big-gun a shudderFrst Wives Club"6 alian a"
battleship 10 Buddha's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 It might be pale teachings
or brown 11SeaWorld RENEE E A VE SAP S
20 Blackguards celebrity EX IS T L E I A OWE D
21 Powerful health 12 Carrier of crude M I T C N T O R T I L L A S
care lobbying gp. 13 Dramatic segment
22 Budget noodle 18 SongwriterTori A L WA Y 5 0 N T I M C
dish 23 Show up K E I L L O R U N A I D E D
24 Deeplyingrained 25University E S T A R O B O G L A Z E
habit founder Cornell T E R O S T E L E A
28 TV sched. 26Pebbles'5pet F O R E V E R Y O U R G I R L
notation 27 "Lle" Dickens R O O E L A L N Y E
31 Mns piquant girl
32 Extremelycold 28 Pay-as-you-go O N A I R DEAN T E R R
34 Birthplaceof rd. M A N D E L A LE G ATE E
"Wayne'stWorld," 29 Cook, in a way E T E R N A L F L A M E
brieny 30 uccib bhion S T R A T A GEM L I L A S
3h Cheese in a hall 33 Mink or sable AW L UM AFIRE
39 Shanghais 36 Pop, to baby A W 0 L I U M A F I
42 Gap subsidiary 37.Parade des., D A B S E N O S T E A K S
44 "The Time maybe xwnrdaditor anirem 11/11/09

Machine"leisure
clam

1 2 A 4 19 R 7 R 9 110 11 112 113

45 rg.withthe blog 14 15 15
Greenversations
47 Furtheroff the 17 18 19
beaten path
48 Convenience 20 212 2
store
52 Hard-rocktfiller 24 25 2 27
53 Cubaor Puedo
Rimo, e.g. 2'a29 00 0 31
57 Parisian's
"Presto!"'
58 Family nickname " 40 41 42 00
59 " the hint"
63 Lat neighbors 44 45 4 47
64 Human
fingerprint, and 40as 50 1 52
what's hidden in
fioe puzzle 53 5 55 5
answers e es o3 2
68 Perce: Pacific57o 5so00 1 62
Northwest tribe 6
69 irish Rose's beau
70 Prepare to slip off r s
71 Museum filler
72 Barbecue a nst 7" "a
73 Singer Sheena-
By Kelsey Blakley 11/12/09
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 12, 2009 - 7A

* New survey method meant
to curb undercounting

From Page 1A
self-identify.
"Lots of people wrote back (after
receiving the e-mail from Monts)
saying that the questions didn't
give them the kind of options they
would like," Weir said. "As an insti-
tution, we absolutely understand
and agree with that."
Weir said University officials
share in the confusion many feel
over the change, like why the His-
panic and Latino question is posed
before asking students to identify
with another race or ethnic group
or why the survey doesn't provide
an option to self-identify.

But Weir added that one of the
reasons for the change is that stu-
dents who are Hispanic or Latino
also identify as one of the other
racial categories, so Hispanic and
Latino communities often end up
beingunderreported.
In addition to resurveying cur-
rent students and faculty, the com-
mittee made a number of other
recommendations for how the Uni-
versity should comply with the new
regulations.
The committee concluded that
the University should "discontinue
its current practice of allowing
students applying for admission
to self-identify using multi-ethnic

or multi-racial labels of their own
choosing," according to a commit-
tee report.
Weir said that in the process
of reviewing the government-
required changes, the committee
discussed whether or not the Uni-
versity should add additional racial
and ethnic categories to those
already offered by the Department
of Education.
But the committee then encoun-
tered difficulty defining those
additional categories so it decided
the University shouldn't survey
racial and ethnic identification
beyond that which is required of
it by law.

JOIN THE DAILY'S
NEWS SECTION
Send an e-mail to
smilovitz@michigandaily.com
to get started.

Country Charm
City Convenience
Immediate
Openings!
SPACIOUS 1, 2, & 3
BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
e Individual private basements
e Currently gas heat-cooking & h a ter included
e Children & pets welcome
" Minutes todownmow,shops & univsiics
S24hr ergy mintenance
Rates fam $419-00 ed on total household
income. Equity shams range frmm$80t1-9985 which
in s in salue te longer you reside in thecop
' eTttsttuh s san a db uponsmove-ut.
Forest Hils Cooperative
2351 Shadowood rive
Ann Arbor
734-971.927 S,,0,,
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkgno pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
BEAUTIFUL CAMPUS 6 bdrm.
house S. Forest. All amenities: new
kitchen,fireplace,furnished, prkg., free
ldry. Fall '10 $3,300. 426-4772 ask for
Jeanie.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
EAST U & Vaughn. 5 bdrm for 6. Lrg
bdrms, very nice condition. Furn, free
dy + prkg for 4 cars. Easy in/out.
$2750. 734-426-4772.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
8 bdrm houses at 806 Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 bdrm houses at 217 N.
Thayer & 912 Sybil. 1, 2, 3 bdrm apts
on central campus. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbeglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-9437.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car portWshr/Dyr, $950/mo.,
all appliances, water included. Call 734-
395-5288. Pfkiani@gmail.com
LARGE 4 BEDROOMS, large living
room, large attic, approved for 6, 852
Brookwood. Prkg., porch, wshr./dryer,
no coin laundry, dishwshr., garage.
Basement. 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
www.varstymanagemenl.com
NYarsit
Management
625 Church St.
(734) 661 100
Now scheduling
appointments

November
13, 14, & 15
Call to schedule your tours.
1-5 bdrms & Houses

Efficiencies:
726S. State
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 1E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
4 Bedroom:
720 S. State
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* Atlmost locations)
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed. 505 Sauer Ct. $2340
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPOIDEINCO'
(734) 996-1991
CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen. Free parking. Must see! (313)-
215-8115. jkrizman@ford.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Cll for details: 734-665-
8825. http//wwwcampusrealty.com
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-in garage. Catedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gunnerbl7@aol.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
NOW SIGNING FOR 1011 school
year! I & 2 bdrm apartments, 3 to 4
bedroom houses. We offer fully fur-
nished at no extra cost! Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit us
on the web www.issaproperties.com
or cll 734-662-4446.
SEPT. LEASE - 4 bdrm. house, 2
bath, 4 prkg. spots, central air, near
Business & Law school. $2450/mo.
Free washer/dryer incl. Max 5 people.
Call 312-543-0741.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
WINTER SEMESTER RENTAL:
One bdrm, large 850 sq f, i-level,
$765/mo, furnibshed option. Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
-2 BED/2 BATH bi-level: 515 Walnut
- huge aps. great for 4, large living
rooms, new kitchens
3-Bedrooms: 1506 Geddes - Spacious
apts close to CCLittle and CCRB
-3 or 4-Bedroom: 1346 Geddes ALL

utilities included: heat, water, electric-
ity, cable, wireless Internet
-4-Bedroom Bi-Levels: 543 Church
Best location, new kitchens
-All include heat, water, & furnishings.
Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nee., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email
your course listing and a brief descrip-
tion about yourself to
umich@sharenotes.com START
EARNING TODAY!
MICHIGAN DAILY HIRING Are
you ambitious, assertive and sociable?
Sell Advertising for The Michigan
Daily. It's Not Just a Job. It's the Train-
ing You Needto Succeed! We are hir-
ing display sales department account
executives for the Winter 2010 term.
Freshmen/Sophomores preferred. Con-
tact Molly Twigg at (734) 764-0554 or -
email dailydisplay@gmail.com for ap-
plication materials and info. Applica-
tions due Nov. 20, 2009.

MANUFACTURER'S REP
171 yr. old lubrication company
needs straight commission
experienced closer to take over
profitable territory near Ann Arbor.
Industrial, agricultural,
commercial accounts.
Must be able to start immediately.
Call Rich Ellis at
800-432-1645
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477.
PART TIME SALES opportunity to
represent our company on your campus
selling Hookabs, Hookah tobacco and
related accessories on an exclusive ar-
rangement. We provide the products;
you do the selling during your avail-
able time. contact Robin Taylor
916-439-5951. rstaylor@starstream.net
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
TICKETS & TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

For Friday, Nov. 13, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is a much better day in all your
relationships with partners and close
friends. (Great relief!) It's also a won-
derful day to begin a romantic relation-
ship that might turn into something.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Things at work will flow quite
smoothly today. It's easy to impress
bosses and VIPs. You also might make
improvements to your work environ-
ment. (You certainly have the energy to
do this today.)
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
This is a lovely, playful, flirtatious
day! Give yourself some moments of
fun! Watch sports, grab a movie, enjoy
playful activities with children or slip
away on a vacation.
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
Family relationships are much
improved today. Discussions with rela-
tives are positive. You'll enjoy time
spent alone at home, if you get a chance
for this.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You're eager to communicate your
ideas to others today, especially to sib-
lings and relatives. You're thinking big,
and you want to know who else agrees
with your ideas.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
This is a good day for business and
commerce. It's also a good day for deal-
ings with foreign countries or to expand
your base of operations.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You feel jubilant, upbeat and far hap-
pier today! The position of the Moon can
be a powerful thing! It's a good day to

relate to groups.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You feel far more content with your-
self today. In fact, this inner contentment
gives you an energy that spreads to every
aspect of your life. Wonderful!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Relations with females, especially in a
group situation, will be very positive
today. Physical activities are vigorous
and enthusiastic!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
You make an excellent impression on
otherstoday (especially bosses and VIPS
who will notice you more than usual)! In
fact, some aspect of your personal life
seems to be made a bit public.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Grab every opportunity to travel
somewhere. You also might get achance
to learn something new or sign up for a
course. Enjoy profound discussions
about lofty topics.
PISCES .
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You're more pleased (than you were
yesterday) with how shared property is
handled today, that's for sure! Now you
feel you're being treated fairly, perhaps
even with generosity.
YOU BORN TODAY You'rea shrewd
judge ofcharacter and extremely percep-
tive about others. You're also a very car-
ing person. You have alot of common
sense; and you're knowledgeable about
many things. You will fight injustice
and, particularly, for the cause of the
underdog. Nevertheless, you're a realist.
In the next year, you'll wrap up some-
thing you've been involved with for
about nine years.
Birthdate of: Gerard Butler, actor;
Whoopi Goldberg, comedian/actress;
Robert Louis Stevenson, novelist.

o 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

I

Members of the cast and crew of NBC's hit daytime series "Days of our
Lives" will be in Detroit, Michigan to give fans and aspiring actors the
opportunity of a lifetime!
Two prizes will be awarded:
DAYS biggest fan will win a trip to Hollywood, CA with a visit to the "Days of our Lives" set.
Promising actors will win a role on the award-winning show.

First Round Auditions:
Friday, November 13.*., 2009
9:00 AM-- 7:00 PM

Final Round Auditions:
Saturday, November 14"', 2009
9:00 AM - 12:00 PM

MGM Grand Detroit, Grand Ballroom, 1777 3" Street, Detroit, MI 48226

All of those participating it ithe search will have ti opportunity to
mcct some of SAm's favorite ast tnte'brs including:
t N
James ReynoldS,,Nadi13A Bon, Shums Christian, Bryam Hath)k, ndShulley Hennig.

For more information on this
exciting event, aspiring actors
and fans can log on to:
www.daysolourlivcs.romtt/
www.tnbc.comtt/l)aystofttur Livcs/
www.cisckii(detroitcom71
All participants are encouraged to bring a
canned good or non-perishable item to be
donated to Gleaners. No purchase necessary
to eanter the contest

Thank you to our sponsors:
MGM GltANI)
..:. 5 IW OW RD AVE.
- ' - IGNLAND PARK

t,,


8A - Thursday, November 12, 2009

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

Coleman: Michigan has stayed
competitive with coaches' pay

From Page 1A
established guidelines.
"We have a compensation phi-
losophy at the University that
actually goes across the institu-
tion that we want to be competi-
tive in our salaries," she said.
"We often try and be in the
upper quartile," she contin-
ued, "because we know that in
that arena, you want to get the
best people to your institution,
whether it's the dean, or a vice
president, or a football coach,
then you're going to have to pay
what the market looks like."
With regards to Rodriguez's

salary, Coleman said she thought
it was reasonable.
"I think (Athletic Director Bill
Martin has) done an extremely
good job of being rational, being
reasonable, looking at the mar-
ket - we're not by any means the
highest, but we're competitive,"
she said.
Coleman said that while many
athletic departments across the
country are seeing increasing
costs, the University of Michi-
gan's Athletic Department has
posted surpluses over the last
several years and does not receive
money from the academic side of
University.

"The Michigan Athletic
Department is in an enviable
position," Coleman said. "There
are only a handful of programs in
the country that are completely
self-supporting in athletics."
"I feel really comfortable about
it," Coleman added about the
overall state of athletic adminis-
tration at the University.
USA Today's study followed
another by the Knight Commis-
sion, which looked at Division IA
presidents' feelings about athlet-
ic department budgets.
Most presidents said that while
they thought something needed
to be done about spending on ath-

letics at their university, a major-
ity of them said that they did not
feel like they were in a position to
create that change.
In an interview last month,
Coleman stressed that she was
confident in her control over the
University's Athletic Depart-
ment, citing a good working
relationship with Athletic
Director Bill Martin and effec-
tive procedures in place that
give Coleman and the Board of
Regents oversight over the Ath-
letic Department.
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.

APPLICATION
From Page 1A
Jamett said.
"But now, if I'm using the Com-
mon Application, if I have it filled
out and as long as my parents have
the money putoutforthe application
fee then there is really no downside
to me hittingsend'to the University
of Michigan in addition to all those
other schools," she added.
Though the University will now
share an application with many
other schools, Spencer said that
officials here could still design a
supplemental application that will
be a part of the Common Applica-
tion and include those things that
are unique to the University.
In fact, SpencersaidtheUniversi-
ty's current application includes fea-
turesofthe CommonApplication.
In an interview yesterday,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said she supported the
transition to the new applica-
tion process after she found out it
would still allow admissions offi-
cers to conduct a holisticreview of
potential students.
"When I realized that we could
in fact customize the common
application for what we needed
and that we weren't going to lose
our ability to still do the holistic
review, for me it became a matter
of why wouldn't we want to make
it easier for students to apply- to
Michigan?" Coleman said.
"I wouldn't want to give that up
at all because I think that has been
a huge strength of our admissions
process that we are much more
than just about your grades and
test scores," Coleman said. "We
wantto get a sense of what you will
bring to the university and also the
ways that we think we can enrich
a student's experience."
Patrick O'Connor, director of
college counseling at the Roeper
School in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.,
said that this switch would allow
his students to focus on important

parts of their application and still be
able to focus ontheir schoolwork.
"I can say beyond a shadow of
doubt, that if Michigan decides
to make this switch, this is going
to be a tremendous benefit to my
students and I think all students
who apply to six to eight colleges,"
O'Connor said. "It's going to be
less paperwork, it's going to give
them a chance to focus on the
quality of their essays and actually
give them a chance to devote more
time to their senior year classes."
While the application will make
it easier for students to apply, area
counselors didn't believe that it
would increase the number of their
students' applications to Michigan.
"So many of our students apply
to the University of Michigan,"
Jamett said. "And for those stu-
dents, they would apply to the
University of Michigan whether
Michigan had its own application,
whether Michiganwaslisted in the
Common Application, or if Michi-
gan made its application more
complex, they would still be apply-
ing to the University of Michigan.
It's a bigdrawfor our kids."
Larry Fisher, director of guid-
ance at East Grand Rapids High
School, pointed out that the
switch to the Common Applica-
tion could help area college coun-
selors "do more with less" because
the time spent by counselors writ-
ing recommendations for multiple
schools could be cut in half.
Spencer said that with the econ-
omy the way that it is, any way to
get more information out to stu-
dents who are interested in apply-
ing is important.
"If the Common Application can
broaden our base and broaden our
application reach in order for us to
get students interested in the Uni-
versity of Michigan and keep our
application numbers to the point
where we can still enroll great stu-
dents,"Spencersaid,"thenIthinkits
probably the best way forus aswe go
into some of these next few years of
uncertainty with the economy."

0

HEAR THE STORY
BEHIND THE STORIES
Listen to Michigan Daily Radio on WCBN-FM-Ann Arbor
88.3 FM Tuesdays and Thursdays 6 to 6:30 p.m.

*0


0h do


weekend
essentials
Nov. 12 to Nov. 15
CONCERT
Concert hopping on a
budget? Stop by The
Blind Pig tonight for a
four-pronged punch
of indie eccentricity.
The Javelins head-
line with their fluid,
angular space-punk.
Rounding out the set
are sunny-side-up
power-poppers The
Pop Project, blue-eyed
blues-smiths Looking
For Mammoths and
hoppity twee-boppers
Murder Mystery. Tick-
ets are $5 ($8 if you're
under 21), and doors
open at 9:30 p.m.

Wu 36

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
-- ON STAGE
The Indian American
LiStudent Association
4 ( will host its annual
Cultural Show at Hill
Auditorium tomorrow.
This year's perfor-
mance, "Vistaara: An
EterniP siogrdc
combines song, d ance
d. " t c~ i~h i wic al

r
:

Inside the world of Ann Arbor
printmaker Takeshi Takahara
By David Riva 11 Daily Fine Arts Editor

anu s unning visuals
that are sure to make
for a truly unique
experience. Don't miss
your chance to see the
largest student-run
cultural show in North
America. The show
starts at 7 p.m and
tickets start at $12.

long a dirt
path some
six miles
outside
of Ann
Arbor sits
a white-
washed
house. It seems to be in the
middle of nowhere, surround-
ed only by a carpet of russet-
colored fallen leaves. Pristine
exterior withstanding, the
building's inside is lined with
a clutter of items strewn about
from constant use.
Crawling, reaching plants
sit in the corner, looking as if
they are impossibly climbing
upward into the sky. One wall
is covered in a flurry of rect-
angular sheets of paper, some
colored with bright hues: blood
red, royal blue; others covered
in black textured dots and lines.
Various drafting tables are set
up along the walls, the heavy
arms of drafting lights hanging
over them, the surface of the
desk covered in cans filled with
brushes, oil pastels, measuring
tape and etching tools.
Upon entering the house,
immediately noticeable is a
giant printing press made of,
gray metal. It's about eight feet
long, complete with knobs and
screws and a turning wheel.
The press itself is covered in
metal plates with lines and
images etched into them -
printmakingplates.
This is the thinking space of
printmaker Takeshi Takahara,
former School of Art & Design
Professor and Arthur F. Thur-
nau Professor Emeritus. Ie
faces this room every time he
seeks to create a new piece, his
mind perhaps as cluttered and
active as his drafting desk.
Takahara employs a print-
making technique known as
intaglio, usingetchings in metal
to produce a printable image
and capture his thoughts and
feelings taken from past experi-
ences, often based on his trav-
els.
His latest exhibition, "The
Four Corners," (on display in
the Residential College Art Gal-
lery through Dec, 4) focuses on
the Southwest United States,
known for its stunning red
and orange rock formations

and supernatural forces. It was
Takahara's goal to encapsulate
the feelings of this area in his
intaglio prints. The selection
of this unconventional method
of expression may appear to be
unusual on the surface, but for
Takahara, it pays off in the long
run.
Intaglio, along with lithogra-
phy, silkscreen and woodblock,
are the four basic printmaking
processes.
Growing up in Japan, Takar-
hara always saw woodblock
as the most popular form of
printmaking. Still, he always
had a desire to work with other
material and soon discovered
he preferred a stronger, almost
impenetrable surface.
"Metal is very hard and it's

is put on a press bed and paper
is forced to pick up the ink from
the grooves, resulting in an
image.
This prolonged and meticu-
lous process might seem exces-
sively laborious and drawn out,
but it's the perfect medium for
Takahara to fully realize the
ideas in his head. The process
also suits his tendency toward
constant revision. He claims
he's in a perpetual state of
reevaluation and correction,
never truly finishing a piece.
"People assume when you
have an idea, you get the result
right then, but that's not the
case," Takahara explained.
"The artist is changing (his or
her work) all the time before
arriving at the final product.

FILM
Free new movie alert:
If you're a member of
the freakishly devoted
cult celebrating "Boon-
dock Saints," you
won't want to miss the
free midnight screen-
ing of "The Boondock
Saints II: All Saints
Day" at the State The-
ater. But wait, there's
a catch. In order to get
in for free, you must
present a pass at the
door, and these passes
can be found scat-
tered across campus.
Let the hunt begin!

The artist is changing (his or
her work) all the time before
arriving at the final product.
That's exciting to me.
- Takeshi Takahara,
printmaker

very resistant," Takahara said.
"I like that dynamic between
my vulnerable idea versus the
solid metal."
Although he was initially
attracted to the materials of
intaglio printmaking, Taka-
hara would have to learn to
be patient, for the steps of the
technique are undeniably time-
consuming.
In intaglio, a copper plate is
coated with an acid-resistant,
asphalt-like substance into
which the artist scratches a
design. An acid bath exposes
the lines, their depth deter-
mined by how long the plate
is left in the bath. These
three steps are repeated mul-
tiple times on the same plate
to create variations of lines.
The asphalt-like substance is
cleaned off, which exposes the
etched lines. Ink is used to fill
in the grooves. Finally, the plate

That's exciting to me."
Even though Takaharaviews
the length of the procedure as
an advantage now, that was not
always his view.
"My instinct was to get a
result very fast, which many
people do when you don't
really understand the process.
You just want a quick result,"
Takahara explained of his early
work.
Takahara acknowledges that
drawingand paintingmayseem
like more appropriate art forms
for immediate artistic achieve-
ment and satisfaction. How-
ever, he prefers to meditate on
and rework his concepts.
"Drawing has a limit in its
own way," he explained.
"Printmaking allows so
much time to produce work.
You get to rethink, revise and
remake your original ideas. (It)
See PRINTMAKING, Page 4B

CONTEST
Do you think your
"Rock Band" group
is the best? Do you
dominate in "Dance
Dance Revolution?"
Display your skills
and prove your worth
at these music- and
movement-fused
games 6 p.m. tomor-
row at the Rock Revo-
lution "Rock Band"
and "DDR" Tourna-
ment at the Ann
Arbor District Library.
Admission is free so
grab some friends
and kick some ass.

DESIGN BY MOSTYCH


0

2B - Thursday, November 12, 2009
iPHONE APP

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

-'I
0
m
C
C
Z

INTERWEB
EAVESDROPPING
(630): Nothing kills the mood
more than a jesus song.
Tila Tequila: Then I made love to 4
other girls and 2 boys. I changed
my lingerie costume each time f4
them. then told them i love them &
goodnite xox
Today, I was jumping on every
crunchy leaf on the sidewalk. I went
especially far out of my way to
FML
step on one only to notice it didn't
crunch right. I looked closer, it was
a dead bird. FML

PUNK JUSTICE
Fight as Jed, your local peace-loving
punk who apparently goes to parks late
at night to beat up unsavory gang mem-
bers who wear wrestling hoods, sport
jackets over bare chests and hot-pink
party masks. Mash fist-iconed but-
tons to hit those mofos in the face and
earn back your park's peace and your
maroon mohawk's dignity.

High Five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five answers
to a curious question.
Sam Epstein
Professor and Associate Chair in the Department of Linguistics
What are your five favorite song lyrics?
1.Jay-Z feat. Alicia Keyes - "Empire StateofMind": I like both artists a lot
and my parents (Joe and Lucy Epstein) whom I miss terribly, both grew up in
Brooklyn, NY and this tune reminds me ofbeing in Brooklyn with them. Also,
as an "old guy" it's nice to be able to discern lyrics, and I think I can understand
the chorus anyway and that's especially nice since it's not violent, irrational and/
or offensive to any group. Most tunes, (and lots of this one) I dunno what they're
saying.
2. Tegan and Sara - "Walking with a Ghost": It's minimalist, real simple, yet
powerful. I think they also pronounce the "s" in "was" as an unvoiced consonant,
instead of the "standard" pronunciation whereby the word is pronounced with a
final voiced "z" sound - so it sounds like "wass" not "wazz." I mean, what could
possiblybe cooler than that?
3. My Dear Disco - "All I Do": MDD is just an awesome band, with incredible
University-affiliated musicians. Bob Lester, who was in my Language and Mind
class years ago, is a great and really talented guy. Their cover of Mr. Stevie Won-
der's song isboth modern and funky, with the notable result that "I can dig it, Bob."
4. Snoop Dogg feat. Pharrell - "Beautiful": Reminds me of my wife, Elaine
McNulty. Hi Elaine, to quote Pharrell, "... I just want you to know / You're my
favorite girl ... Oh yeah, there's something aboutyou..."
5. Kid Cudi, feat. Rat-A-Tat and MGMT - "Pursuit of Happiness": It's an
insightful, and truly musical integration of many seemingly disparate if not
incommensurable genres, but what the heck do I know?
TRAILER REVIEW
"2012"
COLUMBIA
Roland Emmerich has a disturbing lust for destruction. Considering his pre-
vious films ("Independence Day," "Godzilla" (1998) and "The Day After Tomor-
row"), it would be fitting if "2012" finally quenched his thirst for apocalyptic pics.
John Cusak ("High Fidelity") plays the lovable everyman as well as should be
expected, but does it even matter who the actors are? The point isbiblical destruc-
tion, and "2012" will do more than deliver. It looks destined to become one of the
most grotesque films of all time.
JACK PORTER

0

ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK
2-
OBAMA ALIEN DEFENSE ROLLEY!
Armed with nothing but a laser gun and hope, it's up to "Rolley!" is, in a word, ballin'. Roll around a grid of blue
Obama (you) to save America from alien invasion. Jump and squares, trying to turn them all gold. But as you roll over them
run around, wielding a weighty laser-type weapon, evading a second time, they turn blue again (oh no!). Combining this
the enemies and finding the elusive Presidential Coins. With strategy with bombs and lasers makes for a fast-paced, aes-
several species of aliens threatening our freedom, there's no thetically simple experience perfect for getting mindlessly
end to the fun you and Obama can have defending our nation. distracted. Some levels can even be challenging! Ballin'!
Find it at: Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/playobamaaliendefense http://tinyurl.com/playrolley

0
0

0

0

0

0

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 12, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, November12, 2009 - 39

Mackin'on
Fleetwood

"The Marriage of Figaro" is being performed in Italian with English supertitles projected overhead.

Operatic matrimony

University Opera Theatre takes on
Mozart with 'The Marriage of Figaro'
By Sharon Jacobs I Daily Arts Writer

As the orchestra dives into a
bouncy, upbeat tune, the curtain
rises on Edward Hanlon. He is
crouched on his hands and knees
center stage in what can hardly be
called an ideal
singing pos-
ture. But when The Marriage
Hanlon, a sec- F ro
ond-year opera
specialist in At the Power
the School of Center
Music, Theatre Today through
& Dance, opens Nov.15
his mouth to Ticketsfrom $9
sing, his awk-
ward posture
doesn't matter. The resonant open-
ing of "The Marriage of Figaro"
radiates from the stage throughout
the theater, bathing all 1,400 of the
Power Center's seats in melody and
vibrato.
There are no microphones at
work here - this is opera. That
means it's the performers' jobs to
project their voices all the way to
the back row without electronic
enhancement. And in Hanlon's
case, playing the title character in
the University Opera Theatre's pro-
duction of "The Marriage of Figa-
ro," the material he has to project is
more than 200 years old and written
in a language most Americans don't
understand.
This weekend, "Figaro" pre-
mieres at the Power Center for the
Performing Arts. And at $9 for stu-
dents, it's a great opportunity to see
a group of talented singers before
they graduate and join their peers
- Michigan alumni have gone on
to perform with the Metropolitan
Opera, Chanticleer and the San
Francisco Opera, among others.
Composed by Mozart with libret-
tist Lorenzo Da Ponte back in 1786,
"Figaro" still resonates with audi-
ences, particularly young people.
"Sexual tensions, love (and)
betrayal" are elements that occur
in "Figaro," Hanlon explained,
describing the interaction between
characters in their mid-20s. Audi-
ences can look forward to comic
confusion, mismatched period-
slash-contemporary costumes (one
character wears a pinstripe suit
over his classical-era tights) and hot
makeout scenes between hormonal
characters.
Director Robert Swedberg,
associate professor of voice in the
School of Music, Theatre & Dance,
is no stranger to this opera. He has
directed several opera productions,
the most recent in Germany. He also
starred as Figaro at California State
University, Northridge.
Swedberg places a particular
emphasis on the politics behind
"The Marriage of Figaro." Premier-
ing just a few years before the start
of the French Revolution, this opera
is sometimes assumed to be con-
nected to France's violent peasant
uprising.
"('Figaro') presented a perspec-
tive that allowed for (the represen-
tation of) the servant class just as
the servant classes of Europe were
becoming restless," Swedberg said.
"Figaro" mocks the absurdity of
extreme upper-class power, chan-
neling political undertones that
are even more meaningful in times
of revolution and change. A main
theme in "Figaro" is the Droit de
Seigneur (a master's legal right to
sleep with his employee's fiancee).
"(The Droit de Seigneur) can be
compared to some of the corporate
arrogance that we have (today)

you can still draw the parallel
between Figaro and his master,
and us and our masters," Swedberg
explained.
Revolution, excitement (in more
than one sense) and love are all key-
words for this work, which is often
lauded as "the world's most perfect
opera" with its lush, multidimen-
sional characterizations and its
skillful balance of drama and music.
The plot of "The Marriage of
Figaro" centers on its title character,
a recently engaged servant whose
fiancee, Susanna, has caught the eye
of Figaro's master, the Count, who is
himself stuck in a rocky marriage.
Figaro and Susanna must outwit
the Count, who plans to execute his
legal right to sleep with his employ-
ee Figaro's bride-to-be on their
weddingnight.
The pair's plight provides the
opera with many laughs and ample
subplots. One such story involves
Cherubino, a restless teenager por-
trayed by Monica Sciaky, a second-
year master's student in the School
of Music, Theatre & Dance.
Cherubino pops up unexpect-
edly throughout the show to cause
trouble and is "filled with horny
energy (and) sparkling daring-
ness," according to Sciaky.
A counterpoint to Cherubino is
found in Bartolo, a crotchety old
doctor bent on ruining Figaro's
plans. Midway through, though,
Bartolo is discovered to harbor a
secret that will transform his rela-
tionship with his nemesis. Figaro's
rich personalities are one of its
many highlights - the characters
rise above mere class caricature.
"The Marriage of Figaro" is a.
particularly fitting show for Uni-
versity Opera Theatre, which must
find at least one operatic role for
every voice performance major. In
this production, two actors were,
cast for each role (they switch off
each night), and the opera features
a 21-person chorus, so plenty of
students get their chance to shine.
Rounding out the student partici-
pants are the University Symphony
orchestra, conducted by Kenneth
Kiesler, Director of University
Orchestras and Professor of Con-
ducting in the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance.
Most of the backstage crew is
also made up of students, among
them stage manager Mitchell
Hodges and lighting designer Craig
Kidwell. Both senior theatre
design and production majors in
the School of Music, Theatre &
Dance, Hodges and Kidwell are
taking on jobs usually handled
by University Productions staff
members.
Kidwell describes the show as
"an honor because of the chal-
lenges of opera and working in a
large venue."
The backstage crew has its
hands full with props,block-
ing and an unusual set piece.
The University Opera Theatre's
production of "Figaro" uses a
rotating set, which spins around
between the scenes in Figaro's
bedroom, the Countess's boudoir,
the Count's study, a garden out-
side and all the stops in between.
The rotating set adds more
dimensions to the action.
"You can play in different
areas," explained second-year
specialist Nicole Greenidge.
This set design means a lot of
work backstage, but it pays off in
the added action and excitement

of the finished production. The
rotating set also means actors will
be prancing and clambering on a
veritable moving obstacle course,
all while singing their hearts out.
Developing the kind of lung
capacity required to belt out a song
while on the go is a daunting task.
Swedberg recommends a movement
class like ballet or yoga for his cast
and for anyone who wants to suc-
ceed in opera. Opera's big departure
from other singing styles is its lack
of microphones, and the hardwork-
ing "Figaro" cast promises to fill the
Power Center with pure human-
made noise for the entirety of its
three-hour runningtime.
Opera can be considered "an ath-
letic kind of a procedure," accord-
ing to Swedberg. Vocal endurance
doesn't come easily, and most pro-
fessional companies take at least a
day off to recover between shows.
Since it's double-cast, "Figaro" will
be able to realize four back-to-back
shows while still giving each cast
member some down time. Double-
casting also allows actors sharing
a part to interact, commiserate and
learn from one another.
Besides being microphone-free,
opera is also set apart from other
genres by its structure. Operas
are "through-composed," which
means that the music isn't broken
up by stretches of dialogue, as in
musical theater. A sort of mid-
dle ground is found in operetta,
which has some dialogue but often
eschews mics.
Important plot turns in "Figaro"
use recitative, opera's version of
dialogue, accompanied by harp-
sichord. These lines are projected
in an operatic style, on one pitch
and in rhythm, but sound closer to
speakingthan singing.
Recitative is among many opera-
specific skills, but the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance doesn't
have a specific major for opera
- rather, operatic courses exist
within the vocal performance
major. And for operatic hopefuls,
,the vocal performance degree is
only the beginning. After complet-
ing their undergraduate studies,
singers take on a two-year mas-
ter's program, then have the option.
of choosing a two-year special-
ist degree focusing exclusively on
opera.
What this means for "Figaro"
is that many of the actors are
graduate students - the youngest
cast members are undergraduate
juniors or seniors in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance. There
are more undergraduates in the
orchestra and crew.

In addition to their vocal studies,
operatic hopefuls receive instruc-
tion in opera, acting and foreign
languages like Italian, German and
French.
"Figaro" is performed in Italian
with English supertitles projected
overhead as the actors perform.
This means major cramming for
those students who aren't profi-
cient in the language. Hanlon, for
example, took intensive Italian at
the University over the summer
to prepare for his role as "Figaro."
And just saying "bon giorno" isn't
enough - it takes extra work to
perfect "singer's diction," that
wide-voweled enunciation used in
song, in a foreign language.
"(Expressing the) nuance of
the words, the attitudes and emo-
tions and subtexts behind (them),"
explained Swedberg, is the even-
tual goal of foreign-language opera
singing.
Emotional and musically intel-
lectual, opera seemingly lacks
the mass appeal of other theatri-
cal genres. It's true that opera is
expensive in production, long and
large-scale, not to mention plagued
by stereotypical portrayals of fat
ladies singing and "wabbit"-killing
"Looney Tunes" characters.
But in the last few years, opera
has been experiencing a sort of
revival. One important innovation
is high-definition broadcasts -
performances at the Metropolitan
Opera in New York can now be seen
across the country, even at Ann
Arbor's Regency 16 on certain Sat-
urdays, for regular movie prices.
This makes opera more accessible
for the average person who doesn't
live in New York and isn't likely to
shell out $200 for one show.
Opera'srecentresurgence affects
the University's programs too.
The University Opera Theatre has
expanded its repertoire to include
several experimental pieces. These
will be performed in the spring,
along with "Armide," a more rarely
produced French opera. The music
library on North Campus is also a
great opera resource, with many
DVDs that students can check out.
Still, there's nothing like seeing
an opera onstage, the way it was
meant to be. The ability to fill a the-
ater with just one person's voice
while simultaneously kneeling,
jumping or dancing is something
that has to be seen to be believed. At
its most basic, opera is a celebration
of the human voice and the things it
can do without electronic enhance-
ment. And for those unfamiliar with
opera, "The Marriage of Figaro" is
the perfect place to start.

Ann Arbor's most adored
greasy spoon, the Fleet-
wood Diner, is at the
intersection of Ashley and Lib-
erty Streets
on the edge
of down-'
town. Last
March, tiny
Fleetwood
celebrated its
mammoth
existence: 60 LILA
years of sassy KALICK
excellence. What
keeps Fleetwood's colorful cli-
entele coming back isn't the ser-
vice, the food (delicious but, on
the whole, standard) or the fact
that it's open 24/7. The appeal is
the rolling together of all these
aspects and the people who go
there into one. In short, it's the
Fleetwood experience that calls
patrons in.
Fleetwood's seedy charm and
standing-room-only Ambiance
provide the perfect avenue for
the unexpected. The tin-tackle
box exterior is unassuming,
looking more like an old trailer
than an emblem of the American
past.
Inside, the walls are stickered,
stamped and shellacked with so
many fliers for upcomingcon-
certs thatyou would think you
had stumbled into CBGB in the
1980s. If the black-and-white-
checkered floor doesn't make
you feel like you're at apunk
show, the lack of breathing room
on any Friday or Saturday surely
will. Talking with strangers is
completely unavoidable, over-
hearing bizarre conversations is
a must and a violation of personal
space should be anticipated. The
chances of a fight breaking out
are high.
Fleetwood satisfies the same
set of unshakable requirements
necessary for any space to accu-
rately call itself a modern diner.
Sinfully greasy food? Check.
Staunch resistance and disdain
toward anti-tobacco legisla-
tion? Check. An eerie trend of
longevity among staff members
with either a) tattooed-on face
make-up, b) jeans that don't fit,
c) life long struggle to quit smok-
ing greatly inhibited by choice
of employment or d) willingness
to discuss personal issues with
strangers like weight gain or loss,
nasty ex-boyfriend situations or
childhood memories? Quadruple
check.
But what makes a diner
emblematic of its home town is
not the presence of these ele-
ments, but the minutiae - those
eccentric characteristics that
separate it from the rest of the

pack. Fleetwood has plenty of
quirks. For one thing, the stand-
out dish Hippie Hash violates
the mold of traditional hash
browns, branding the beloved
American side with a distinctly
Ann Arbor flavor. In addition to
the usual potato shavings and
the healthy helping of oil, you'll
get peppers, broccoli, onions,
mushrooms, tomatoes and feta
cheese, making ita solid enough
choice to stand solo. (P.S. It's
the bomb.)
If you can surmount the series
of challenges thrown at you in
your quest for deliciousness,
perhaps you'll get to sample this
innovative delight. of course,
that would require that you've
found atable - a difficult task.
Next, the waitress: She'll greet
you with contempt, vacancy
or perhaps, if it's early enough,
spunk. You'll overcome this,
asking politely then waiting
patiently as it takes 35 minutes to
get your order. It's worth every
second of the inordinately long
wait. And I advise you to go for
the whole Hippie breakfast (two
eggs any style with hippie hash
and toast), because once it gets
there you'll be much hungrier
than you first thought.
Another anomaly at Fleet-
wood is the halal meat. I've seen
it in Greek and Middle Eastern
restaurants, but never in anoth-
Long waits,
short tempers.
er diner. Fleetwood employs
it in its meaty hippie hash and
gyros, but don't worry vegans -
there's also a seitan version of
the hash for all your late night
needs.
Some will complain about
Fleetwood's dirtiness and the
incessant smoking of its patrons.
I say a diner is not a real diner
if it's not a baby's breath away
from the lowest health and
sanitation limits, the final relic
of our Upton Sinclair past. My
only misgiving with Fleetwood
is its lack of milkshakes. I mean,
get it together guys. What's my
order of greasy fries without a
huge chocolaty or vanilla treat
to wash it down with? Clearly, in
my mind, my own lactose intol-
erance does not exist after 3 a.m.
I feel strongly that Fleetwood
should be there to support me in
my bad decision.
Kalick is tattooing on her
make-up. If you can help, e-mail
her at lkalick@umich.edu.

BAD CREDIT?
NO CREDIT?
WE DON'T CARE!
WRITE FOR DAILY ARTS.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu
for an application.

m

BRAWL ON CAMPUS
Michigan Union Ballroom
Thursday, Nov.12 8-10 PM
The Ann Arbor District Library brings our flagship gaming event to the Michigan Union BRAWLroom
(Ballroom in the Union, 530 S. State) for a fast, furiOuS, high-intenity Super Smash Bros. Brawl Tournament.
Items are Off and Neutral Stages are On; it's just you and your skills braWing your way to the top.
We'll have Valuable prizes for the top players and a team event, if time allows.
You may have been to a Brawl tournament before, but not like this one.
":org
For more information: aadfforglhrawl or 321.4555


4B - Thursday, November 12, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, November 12, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

'GUN CRAZY' (1950)
Classic trigger-happy noir

By EMILY BOUDREAU
DailyArts Writer
Cartoon-like rain pours down onto a
movie set. A young boy enters and presses
his face against the window of a store - his
eyes light up as his gaze rests on the pistols
in the display case behind the glass. Out of
nowhere, he smashes the window and steals
the guns, only to be immediately caught by a
local policeman.
His reason for stealing: "Shooting is the
only thing I like." Guns are his obsession,
but he never shoots to kill. Needless to say,
this excuse doesn't hold up well, and he is
sentenced to four years of reform school.
No, "Gun Crazy" is not about trigger-hap-
py rednecks or even about Charlton Heston
as a young man. The film is actually a 1950s
film noir about a romantically entangled
woman and man who love guns more than
they love each other.
Returning home from reform school as a
grown man, Bart (John Dali, "Atlantis, the
Lost Continent") attends a carnival where he
meetsAnnie Laurie Starr (Peggy Cummings,
"Dentist in the Chair"), a British sharpshoot-
er who doesn't have an accent and loves guns
just as much as Bart does. The two go togeth-
er like "guns and ammunition."
Annie Laurie, however, is bad news. She
wants excitement and a luxurious lifestyle.
In order to attain the fur and diamonds she
desires, Annie Laurie convinces Bart to rob
banks. The two embark on a cross-country
heist, moving from small time crimes in
which they shoot gumball machines to
scare an elderly clerk, to bigger offenses that
include chase scenes through meat freezers.
As always, a life of crime doesn't pay and the
pair meets a tragic end.
For a movie from the 1950s, "Gun Crazy"
is remarkably oversexed. Annie Laurie and
Bart share a bed and go at each other like
wild animals during the make-out scenes.
Director Joseph H. Lewis ("The Big Combo")
made sure sexual tension ran through the
movie like a live wire. At times, the sexual
elements come out overdone, but that's
what makes the film enjoyable - seeing the
repressed tensions of the 1950s manifest
themselves onscreen.
"Gun Crazy" is innovative not only in its
portrayal of relationships between characters
but in its cinematography. One particularly
famous bank-robbery scene was created with-
out filmingthe actual robbery. Filmed inside a
car, the frame captures only the back of Annie
Laurie's head as she makes small talk with
a patrolman while Bart robs the bank off-
screen. No action is shown, just the reactions

of characters; suspense keeps rising.
"Gun Crazy" was among the first films
to consciously separate the camera and the
action. To this day, the technique appears
all over popular cinema; Wes Anderson's
"The Royal Tenenbaums" is almost entirely
crafted with this separation of action and
what's on screen.
Apart from the robbery scene, "Gun
Crazy" does little to distinguish itself from
other film noirs. But it's still a classic, and
while it may not have gained the critical
acclaim of movies like "The Big Sleep" or
"The Maltese Falcon," there is no reason to
dismiss "Gun Crazy" as irrelevant. These
films in general have a tremendous presence
in modern-day films and culture. Because
"Gun Crazy" has all the required elements
of a noir - hard-boiled dialogue, a touch of
A film just crazy
enough to influence
countless followers.
blood and gore, the swarthy small town cop,
shadows and the femme fatale - it can't be
written off.
Directors like Quentin Tarantino, the
Coen Brothers and even Eli Roth all bor-
row bits and pieces of quintessential noir
elements and mix them with the directors'
respective films' brisk dialogue and bloody
scenes. The genre's influence has spread to
television - HBO's "Bored to Death" con-
tains all the elements of film noir ala "Gun
Crazy." It can even be found on the radio,
with Garrison Keillor's "Guy Noir, Radio
Private Eye" onNPR.
Most modern-day noirs mock films like
"Gun Crazy," and it's not terribly hard to
do. The older noirs are stiff and outdated -
most actors would have difficulty keeping
a straight face while delivering lines such
as "Come on, Bart, let's finish it the way we
started it: on the level." For some reason, the
toughness of the old black-and-white film
noirs translates into nothing but laughter.
But this isn't to say their influence
shouldn't be taken seriously. There's a rea-
son noir-referenced motifs like fedora hats,
smoke curling from the end of cigarettes and
the blonde bombshells strutting into police
stations keep popping up. They are effort-
lessly cool and stylish - and these are quali-
ties a lot of films strive for.

PRINTMAKING
From Page 1B
allows you to do a number of proofs and
stages.In a way, that's a document. Very
few art processes have that advantage.
If you paint over something, it disap-
pears," he said.
"In printmaking, you can actually
print images step by step and have it.
By looking at that proof, you make addi-
tions or deletions and move onto anoth-
er print again and compare those two
and see the differences."
"The Four Corners" exhibition
showcases the impact of this reas-
sessment and alteration. His art piec-
es, Two Anthropomorphs I and Two
Anthropomorplis II, are variations on
the same physical objects but express
two distinct feelings. The two prints
repeat the same images of birds and a
haunting figure with an overextended
appendage, holding a shield-shaped
object.
The most striking difference
between the two is their differingcolor
schemes. The former harnesses an
intense orange while the latter seems
far less threatening with its use of a
chilly, light blue.
Takahara admits that color is a key
element of his work. It's also the most
challenging part of the intaglio process
to pinpoint. Ultimately, it's personally
rewarding when the exact shade is real-
ized.
"Because (getting the right color) is
difficult and challenging, you want to
do it," Takahara explained about the
tedious precision that goes along with
searching for the right color. "I didn't
invent that. That's always been the
case."
"If you knew the result, then you
wouldn't do it," he added.
The breathtaking hues are what
attracted Takahara to the Four Cor-
ners region in the first place, but upon
arrival, it was the mysteriousness of the
region that intrigued him the most.
"There's something supernatu-
ral about that place," Takahara said.
"There's this giant, almost structure,
but it naturally eroded or created cliffs
and mountains. Something about that is
so overwhelming to me."
Although the Four Corners region
was his predetermined destination,
there was not a specific object or land-
scape he planned to capture. He instead
opted for a more holistic approach.
"I was not interested in a particular
spot to document," Takahara said. "1
(try to get) the sense of the place and
recreate that sense of a place in myself
and realize it. So what you see in the
show is nothing particular --- not such

0

and such place. You cannot tell. But you
get the sense of, 'oh yeah, I get it' kind
of thing."
Titles like Two Moons over Canyon
and Calling the Flock of Birds in "The
Four Corners" exhibit are evidence of
the absence of prints recording exact
geographic location.
Perhaps the most fascinating aspect
of Takahara's work is that he doesn't
travel with his printmaking material or
haul heavy equipment around to remote
locales as an Impressionist painter
would. Instead, he focuses on bottling
up his experience of a general area,
sorting out his feelings in his head. It
is not until he's back in the confines of
his Ann Arbor studio that he begins to
express on paper the sentiments he felt
hundreds of miles away.
A piece like Whispering Echo illus-
trates the high degree of success Taka-
hara has reached in his work. The time

of contemplation that Takahara sets
aside for himself to sort out ideas in his
head allows for a full realization of the
inherent forces in a region like the Four
Corners.
The piece seems to capture the feel-
ing of a sound through a thick red-
orange backdrop and a series of random
shapes and sweeping lines. Provoking
a certain sentiment through noise that
can't be heard but, rather seen, feels
like a nearly impossible achievement in
visual art.
Intaglio printmaking can be viewed
as a strange alternative to painting
and drawing, and can also he seen as
a roundabout way to fulfill an artistic
endeavor. When done right, though,
intaglio can express fleeting emotions
and even the momentary sensation of
sound through random etchings and
poignant colors, no matter how long it
takes to complete a print.

ARTSY, NOT FARTSY? WRITE FOR US.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.
ATTENTION: FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES!
ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?
selld for
T1he < ily.

0

6

0

We need new account executives for
the Winter/Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
Close deals
Convince skeptics
Become a leader
and build a Killer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(734) 764-0554
or e-mail, attn: Molly Twigg
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Application deadline
for Winter 2oo positions:
November 20, 2009

0



0

0 0

TheMiciga Daly Tioff- TursayNovember 12, 2009
WANT TO BE COOL?
FOLLOW @MICHDAILYSPORTS.


MICHIGAN
From page 5C

team in a position where they're
knocking on the door and they
have a chance."
And there's a reason opposing
coaches and those close to the pro-
gram see the Wolverines reaching
the doorstep of the Big Ten's upper
echelon.
"What I've witnessed," said
King, "is it doesn't matter who
scores, doesn't matter who
rebounds, doesn't matter who
gets a blocked shot, who gets the
winning bucket - they just want
to win. That's what's going to
take them from
the middle of
the pack to the
front." It hasC
King pre-
dicts atop-three started,
Big Ten finish
for Michigan, nowhei
would likely f
translate into a finis
top-four seed in
the NCAA Tour-
nament, which
would in turn give the Wolverines
an opportunity to play deep into
March.
FAB FIVE ATTITUDE
They wore baggy shorts, black
socks and their mouths on their
sleeves.
And for two years, the phrase
"Fab Five" was synonymous with
the Michigan basketball program.
While the most noticeable aspects
of the quintet were the quirky
uniforms that turned into nation-
wide trends, they weren't the most
important. What mattered most
was the attitude.
"We didn't use the word 'swag-
ger' back then, but we had a hell of
a swagger," Chris Webber said in
Fox Sports Net's program "Beyond
the Glory - the Fab Five."
The Fab Five was more cocky
than confident, to say the least.
Though that's a far cry from the
Michigan basketball team under
Beilein, it certainly has some par-
allels in that area.
"Watching these kids from
afar, the biggest thing that they
remind me of that was similar to
us is their attitudes," King said.
"(The current players) go into
a game believing they can win
regardless of who they're play-
ing. Like last year, when they
played UConn, nobody gave them
a chance that they were going
to play hard or even hang with
UConn. They go into their place
and almost win."
King pointed to a few games
during Beilein's first year, match-
ups that Michigan ended up los-

0 0
ing after the team shrank 10- or
20-point deficits in the game's
final moments. The fight, that it-
ain't-over-til-it's-over attitude,
was perfectly clear. According to
Beilein, it's a "believe you can beat
any opponent" mentality.
And that's what brings for-
mer players like King back to the
early 1990s. Sure, the Fab Five was
known more for its trash talking
than its confidence. But when five
freshmen tell the national media
that they expect to win a national
championship, it's hard to ignore
that attitude.
Nobody on the Michigan roster
this year predicts a national title.
But that doesn't mean the goals
aren't lofty and
the pressure
isn't cooking.
ertainly "If they were
to ask me what
but it's to expect this
year, I would
re near just say, 'You
,hed. guys won't be
a surprise this
year - you're
on the radar,'
" King said.
"Now, when you go into a Wiscon-
sin, or a Michigan State or a Penn
State or wherever you go on the
road, the crowd is gonna know,
they're gonna know who you are
and they're gonna be gunning for
you."
WHERE MICHIGAN BELONGS
Back to the present, though, for
just a moment.
"Right now, we're 0-0, and so is
every team in the country," fresh-
man walk-on Josh Bartelstein
said, echoing a mantra other play-
ers have used. "We know we have
a lot of work to do. Nothing's going
to be given to us easy, that's for
sure."
Beilein has instilled that kind
of attitude in his players. It's why
when he sends a letter telling each
athlete to "be a hunter," the team
takes it to heart.
It's also why the players exude
confidence when they take the
court.
And for all of those reasons,
Beilein finds himself in the center
of another program revival. It's
certainly started, but it's nowhere
near finished.
"Until we can get Michigan to
point where they're in the NCAA
Tournament -this is normal to
be in the NCAA Tournament - we
haven't turned anything around
yet," Beilein said.
"I think that's where Michigan
belongs. If you're in the tourna-
ment every year, dang it, you've
got a chance of winning it. That's
where we want to go, sustain the
program."

Choose from the following games:
FRI, NOV. 27 -8 PM vs. LA. CLIPPERS
TH U, DEC. 10 - 7:30 PM vs. DENVER
WED, DEC. 23 - 7:30 PM vs. TORONTO
TUE, DEC. 29- 7:30 PM vs. NEW YORK
SAT, JAN. 9 -7:30 PM vs. PH ILADELPH IA
FRI, JAN. 15-8 PM vs. NEW ORLEANS
SAT, FEB. 6 - 7:30 P vs. EW JERSEY
FRI, FEB. 19 - 8 PM vs. MILWAUKEE
FRI, MAR. 12-8 PM vs. WASHINGTON
FRI, APR. 2 - 8 PM vs. PHOENIX
24-37-e g gPITN.O/OLEEIHS

LET'S
G TO
WORK.





0

0 0 0

0

ThurdayNovmber200

Table of Contents

The expectations for the Wolverines are higher, but
* the Big Ten is arguably the nation's toughest confer-
* ence. We preview six of the Big Ten's strongest teams.
4 This year, the country's top teams might have com-
*pany. Check out how Michigan got out of its 11-year
M rut, revitalized a proud program and prepared itself
for a defining season.
He's only a freshman, but Darius Morris and his
natural instinct could be the difference between
deep postseason run and an early exit.
Nicole Auerbach@" Gjon Juncaj
Chris Meszaros 0 Joe Stapleton
Center spread design by Mo Stych
Secondary story design by Angela Chih
Cover photo by Max Collins

2009-10 Roster
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. Year Hometown
0 Zack Novak G 6-5 210 So. Chesterton, Ind.
1 Stu Douglass G 6-3 185 So. Carmel, Ind.
3 Manny Harris G 6-5 185 Jr. Detroit
4 Darius Morris G 6-4 180 Fr. Los Angeles, Calif.
5 Eso Akunne G 6-3 220 Fr. Ann Arbor
12 Anthony Wright F 6-6 235 Jr. Sterling, Va.
13 Matt Vogrich G 6-4 180 Fr. Lake Forest, IIl.
20 Josh Bartelstein G 6-3 190 Fr. Highland Park, Ill.
22 Blake McLimans F 6-10 220 Fr. Hamburg, N.Y.
23 Corey Person G 6-4 200 So. Kalamazoo
30 Eric Puls C 6-10 210 So. Alpena
31 Laval Lucas-Perry G 6-3 185 So. Flint
32 Zack Gibson F 6-10 220 Sr. Grand Blanc
34 DeShawn Sims F 6-8 235 Sr. Detroit
35 Ben Cronin C 7-0 265 Fr. Syracuse, N.Y.
52 Jordan Morgan F 6-8 240 Fr. Detroit

4tGHT from page 6C
stood out, thanks in a large part to But sometimes it can get con-
plays like one Villegas remembers. fusing because, like most elite
It's usually a good thing when, athletes, Morris is never content
while describing a move a player with his game. In Michigan's
made, Michael Jordan is invoked. exhibition win against Wayne
"Do you remember when Jor- State on Friday, Morris did what
dan went baseline, he faked like he was supposed to do: he started,
he was coming out but he went and he played swarming defense.
baseline and then he dunked on He might not have filled out the
some guy?" Villegas says. stat sheet (four points, three
Darius, just a freshman, pulled assists, and three rebounds), but
down an offensive rebound at a he didn't try to do too much and
critical point in a game. He started showed glimpses of that basket-
dribbling out of the paint, toward ball instinct that has made him
the 3-point line, then quickly stand out at every level.
turned back inside, shook nearly But you get the feeling that
the entire defense and hit a layup. even if he posted a stat line like
"The defense just reacted like, that of teammate Manny Har-
'Wow,' " Villegas said. ris (25 points, five rebounds, four
This summer, Darius played assists), he wouldn't have been
pick-up ball at UCLA, home of satisfied.
some of the hottest summer ball "I'm not content with the exhi-
in the country. One day, DeWayne bition game," Darius said. "I feel
Sr. decided to drop by. His son was like I'm in a good position to do
guarding former NBA player Cut- better. I'm just really looking for-
tino Mobley. Former UCLA star ward to the next game - I always
and current Oklahoma City player feel like I got more to show. And
Russell Westbrook was also play- after that game, I'll be excited for
ing. And former Michigan star the next game. That's kind of how
and Fab Fiver Jalen Rose had next. I am."
DeWayne walked up to Rose. It's a good thing, because this
"How do you like that kid right year will not allow for complacen-
there?" DeWayne asked. He ges- cy. The Big Ten looks like it will
tured toward his son. be one of the best - if not the best
"Oh, he's nice," Rose said. "He's - conference in the country, with
smart." both Michigan State and Pur-
"Well, that's your alma mater's due returning almost all of their
'09 point guard." respective starters. Also, with
Rose, who wore the baggy success comes high expectations.
shorts and black socks while lead- For Michigan, that means a deep
ing the first team to start five NCAA Tournament run.
freshmen in the NCAA Tourna- In a nod to a player from the
ment final, replied: last Michigan team to make such a
"Is that Darius Morris?" run, Morris wears No. 4, in honor
of Chris Webber.
On the day he was photo- Morris has made a name for
graphed for this story, Darius himself with his ability to antici-
Morris strode through the tun- pate how a play will develop, to
nel at Crisler Arena with his long instinctively see a play before it
arms swinging along his sides and happens. It remains to be seen
brand-new maize-and-white Adi- if he can do it on the collegiate
das Crazy 8's on his feet. level.
Someone asked him how he What many people don't real-
was doing. ize is that Morris committed
"Can't complain at all, man," to Michigan before last season,
Morris said, grinning. before the run to the first NCAA
It's a running theme in Morris' tournament berth in 11 years and
life. He walks with the confidence before the program was back on
and ease of someone who is tom- the map.
pletely content with where he is He signed the summer after
in that exact moment. Michigan finished with a epro-
"I feel like a lot of guys, if gram-worst 10-22 record - as if
they're good, they let it get to that same instinct that he hason
their head, and they start to feel the court extended to his assess-
like the whole world owes them ment of the program.
something," Darius said. "Just the Like how he knows where his
opportunity to go out there and teammates will be on the court,
prove myself on a national level, it's as if he could see the success
really, it's a great opportunity." before it happened.


Isn't Iisappsint
Thur Pa rents!
TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT
and be pictured in the Michiganensian Yearbook
TSDAY
Thursday 9112
l0am - 5im
Bring this coupon with you and get
$2 OFF your Sitting Fee!!!
ikqchi ."anensian
Schedule your portrait online:
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
Location: Sophia B. Jones Room, Union


STAFF PICKS
The Daily basketball
writers do their best
to predict what will
happen in the world of
college basketball this
season.

Nicole
Auerbach

Gjonh M riso
luncaj Meszaros

aet
Stapleton

Michigan record 20-10 21-9 22-8 23-7 .
ng Ten Champion Michigan State Michigan State Purdue Michigan State
Big Ten second place Purdse Purdue Michigan State Purdue
Big Ten third place Michigan Minnesota Illinois Michigan
Michigan finish 3rd 4th 4h 3rd
BigTen Tournament champ Prs Purdue Michigan State Ohio State
tig Ten MVP Kalin Lacas Taint tattle Lucas Manny Hatris
tig ten coach of the year TabbyS SByan till Carmody Carmody
Bg Ten surprise team Northmestern Wisconsin Illinois Minnesota
Michigan MVP Manny Harris DeShawn Sims Harris Harris
National playerof the year ohs Wal; Kentucky Sherron Collins, Kansas Cli Luke Harangody, Notre tame
Michigan's season ends here NCAA Sweet Sinless NCAA Sweet Sixteen NCAA Sweet Siateen FNCAA Eite Eight
NCAA "Bracket Buster" Utah State Creighton Western Kentucky Marquette
NCAA Final Four Champion in hold) .KansasKansas.Kansas Michigan State.
Villanova Villanova Kentucky Kansas
Kentucky West Virginia Michigan State Duke
___________________Michigan State Texas North________Carolina __________Texas _____


0 0

I C Te ihgn al Tpf -Tusay oebe 2 009

Biggest foes in the Big Ten
Top six threats to Michigan's conference title hopes
By Gjon Juncaj and Chris Meszaros n Daily Sports Writers

SIGHT
Darius Morris:
The Cali Kid
By Joe Stapleton I Daily Sports Writer
When talking to people who know
Darius Morris' game best, one thing
keeps coming up.
It's not that he can jump out of the gym,
though he can throw down with the best (just
YouTube "Darius Morris dunk").
It's not that he's quicker than everyone else,
though his speed is at times mind-boggiing.
And it's not that he's bigger than every-
one. Though he is 6-foot-4, his frame is best
described as lanky.
What sets the freshman point guard apart
is what his high school coach, Miguel Villegas,
saw the first time he saw Darius play - in an
eighth-grade AAU game. Darius had just gotten
- a rebound and was dribbling up the floor. He
glanced up at his teammates.
"The way he told his players where to go,
looked to pass and then looked to score when
the opportunity was there," Villegas said. "You
could tell he just had the natural instincts of
being not only a great point guard but a great
basketball player."
What Villegas called "natural instincts" has
been described in many different ways, but the
truth is, it's hard to define. Scouts look for cold,
hard statistics like vertical leap, height and
wingspan. Then, they look at the real physical
tools needed to succeed in the sport, such as lat-
eral movement, coordination and speed while
dribbling.
But the toughest aspect of a player's game
to evaluate is also the most important. It's
what makes him wait that fraction of a second
before throwing a backdoor pass, and not look
at his target when he does. It's that voice that
tells him when he grabs an offensive rebound
in the paint, when to pump fake and when to
go straight up. It's what makes it seem like he's
watching every possession in tape delay while
everyone else is experiencing it in real time.
It's not all that common to find a player who
has developed these instincts to the point where
they can compete at the collegiate level.
Maybe Michigan has.
"Darius dropped everything to go play with
his bigger brother," DeWayne Sr., Darius'
father, says. He remembers how from the age of
five, Darius followed his brother DeWayne Jr.,
who is eight years older, and his friends all over

WHAT'S GOOD: The Spartans' backcourt is terrifying. Led by
reigning Big Ten Player of the Year Kalin Lucas, Michigan State
should repeat as the conference's most prolific offense. Along-
side Lucas is junior shooting guard and middle school friend
Durrell Summers, a 6-foot-5 athletic freak with great hops and
a dangerous three-point shot (38.5 percent last season). Backups
Korie Luscious and Chris Allen round out arguably the confer-
ence's best set of perimeter players.
WHAT'S NOT: The Spartans lose last season's Big Ten Defensive Player of the Year,
Travis Walton, and arguably the conference's most complete center, Goran Suton. Wal-
ton provided a steady handle on offense (he led the team in assist-to-turnover ratio)
and was comfortable guarding the one-three positions whenever needed. There's no
one on the roster that can duplicate Walton's impact right now.
Suton led the conference in rebounding (8.4 boards per game) and was an efficient
double-digit scorer, finishing sixth in the Big Ten with a 52.1-percent shooting rate.
Although sophomores Delvon Roe and Draymond Green will be healthy, in shape and
much more athletic than their Bosnian predecessor, their interior passing and back-to-
the-basket moves will require time to develop.
BOTTOM LINE: This is still the Big Ten's best team on paper. A loaded backcourt and
two budding stars in Roe and Green should make up for the loss of Walton and Suton
by March.
WHAT'S GOOD: After being upset by a No. 12 seed in last sea-
son's NCAA Tournament, Illinois is looking for a big rebound
this year. But that shouldn't be too difficult. The Fighting Illini
are led up front by 7-foot-1 center Mike Tisdale and forward Mike
Davis. Though the lanky Tisdale may not look like a basketball
star, he did average more than 10 points and four rebounds for
Illinois last season. While former Michigan commit Alex Legion
struggled last year, averaging just 3.5 points per contest, he is expected to fill a bigger
role this season.
WHAT'S NOT: If there is an unproven team near the top of the Big Ten, it would be
the Illini. Though Illinois finished 24-10 last season, the team is starting a true fresh-
man at guard (D.J. Richardson) and an unproven guard who has thus far failed to live
up to his potential (Legion). Additionally, Tisdale is not strong enough to be physical
down low, which could pose a problem ina tough Big Ten.
BOTTOM LINE: Illinois is one of the teams jockeying for a place in the middle of
the conference. Expect the Illini to make it to the Big Dance but struggle on their way
there.

WHAT'S GOOD: Purdue is a bona fide top-10 team, and
the Boilermakers know it. Last year at Big Ten Media Day,
guard Keaton Grant boldly predicted that Purdue would
win the national title. And while the Boilermakers only
made it to the Sweet Sixteen, No. 7 Purdue hopes to make
that short trip to Indianapolis when the season ends - and
not just for the Big Ten Tournament. The Boilermakers return junior forward Rob-
bie Hummel, a Preseason All-Conference Team selection. Though he struggled with a
lingering back injury last year, Hummel still averaged 12.5 points and seven rebounds
per game. To top it off, all five of Purdue's starters return to a team that won the Big
Ten Tournament last year.
WHAT'S NOT: The biggest concern for Purdue is its thin frontcourt. The Boilermak-
ers have just three true freshmen to back up starters Hummel and JaJuan Johnson.
Additionally, coach Matt Painter used a thin bench last year, with all of his starters
averaging over 27 minutes a game. That means there is a chance that the team could
wear down during a lengthy tournament run.
BOTTOM LINE: Purdue has five solid starters led by Hummel and should challenge
the Spartans for the Big Ten crown. Expect the Boilermakers to go far in the postseason.
WHAT'S GOOD: Evan Turner is the Big Ten's Mr. Every-
thing, leading the league in scoring last season and finish-
ing in the top 10 in shooting percentage, assists, rebounds
and steals. The six-foot-seven junior will be entrusted with
Ohio State's point guard duties this year, and in Monday's
season-opening win became the second Buckeye ever to post
a triple-double. Though Turner had said he prefers initiating
the offense, coach Thad Matta will likely save a package of plays to take advantage of
Turner's slashing ability and keep the conference's best player off the ball.
WHAT'S NOT: Rebounding and offensive efficiency. The Buckeyes finished ninth in
rebounding margin last year, and that was with seven-foot center B.J. Mullens, who is
now in the NBA. And don't expect Turner to grab seven-plus boards a night while run-
ning the point. With no incoming freshmen this season, forwards David Lighty and Dal-
las Lauderdale will have to show significant improvement on the glass to compensate.
Turner's move from swingman to point guard was done in part to improve an offense
that finished seventh in assists and recorded a measly one-to-one assist-to-turnover
ratio. Matta has said ballhandling will be one of his primary focal points during the first
semester.
BOTTOM LINE: The Buckeyes have one of the most versatile players in the country, a
rock-solid starting five and a proven coach. This may be the most dangerous team in the
conference, but rebounds and turnovers may be the difference between first and third
nlace.

their Los Angeles neighborhood looking
for pick-up games.
At first, Darius would only play with
his brother when they didn't have enough
bodies for a game. Eventually, he earned
his way on the court.
It was there, on the blacktops of L.A.,
that Darius was forced to develop his
instincts quickly, to find creative ways to
shoot over taller kids and dribble around
wider ones.
"The best part of his game is his handle
and his creativity," DeWayne Jr. says now.
"His court vision is something you can't
teach. The stuff he could do on a basket-
ball court when he was ten years old was
amazing. A nine, ten-year-old kid should
not be able to see the floor that way."
DeWayne Sr. also noticed the skills his
son had at a young age. As an eight-year-
old, Darius would go to the YMCA in
Inglewood, a hoops mecca if there ever
was one, and play against kids at least a

couple years older.
"Darius used to do some very" - he
pauses - "unnatural things, I would call
it, as a youth in basketball," DeWayne Sr.
said.
But it wasn't until a national AAU tour-
nament in Florida that DeWayne Sr. real-
ized exactly the opportunity his son had.
At age 11, Darius splitdouble teams with
ease, found eye-popping passing angles
and just flat-out scored the basketball. His
father watched all of this from the sideline
and had a bit of a revelation.
"I told him, 'If you really want to pur-
sue this, you have a chance at being really
good at this,' " DeWayne Sr. said.
Darius listened. By the time he was in
eighth grade, he was in a position to play
at one of the many big-time high schools in
the L.A. area, like Westchester, Redondo
Union or Mater Dei. He was even thinking
about following his AAU teammate and
current Milwaukee Bucks rookie Brandon

Jennings to the famed basketball factory
Oak Hill Academy in Virginia.
But DeWayne Jr. realized Darius, at
5-foot-9 and painfully thin, would be
physically overmatched at these basket-
ball powerhouses.
DeWayne Jr. had heard about a private
school called Windward, located in the
Mar Vista neighborhood in L.A. It had a
very good academic reputation but was
looking to build up its hoops program. It
was then that DeWayne Sr. contacted the
school's coach, Villegas, and together they
went to see one of Darius' AAU games.
Villegas was impressed.
Growing up in the L.A. area, it's natural
to run into celebrities every day. Darius
played high school ball with two of them:
Malcolm Washington, son of Denzel,
and Percy Miller, formerly known as Lil'
Romeo.
Even on a star-studded squad, Darius
See 4-SIGHT, Page 7C

WHAT'S GOOD: Penn State should have plenty of reasons
+ for optimism after narrowly missing the NCAA Tournament
and winning the National Invitational Tournament last season.
Junior point guard Talor Battle is arguably the Big Ten's most
dangerous crunch-time player. He earned preseason first-team
All-Big Ten honors after averaging 16.7 points, 5.0 assists and 5.3
rebounds last year. Penn State also returns redshirt junior for-
ward Andrew Jones, who could become one of the conference's elite rebounders after
finishing fifth last season in offensive boards per game.
WHAT'S NOT: Replacing Jamelle Cornley and Stanley Pringle might be impossible. Johnson - with potenti
The two now-graduated players averaged a combined 27.2 points last season, and were The Gophers return all
critical in freeing up Battle on offense. After Battle, Jones was the nexthighest-return- points per game.
ingscorer from last year (6.2 points per game). Penn State's offense will likely be a one- WHAT'S NOT: Minne
manshow this fall until a reliable second option emerges. Should that take too long, the be what sets it back in t
Nittany Lions will likely be back in the NIT. make the Gophers one o
BOTTOM LINE: For better or worse, Battle will shoulder more than any other player an 11-deep bench, not all
in the conference during the early part of the season. A first-half schedule that includes sota has the potential tol
road games at Virginia, Temple and Minnesota will show just how much help Battle BOTTOM LINE: Smith
will need to take the Nittany Lions to their first NCAA Tournament since 2001. in the NCAA Tourname

WHAT'S GOOD: If there was an award for the coach
who best turned around their program, only Minnesota's
Tubby Smith might beat out Michigan coach John Beilein.
The Gophers went from a nine-win squad two years ago to a
22-win team that made the NCAA Tournament last season.
Minnesota is also one of the deepest programs inthe Big Ten,
mixing senior talent - Lawrence Westbrook and Damien
al stars in sophomores Colton Iverson and Ralph Sampson III.
nine of their top scorers, led by Westbrook, who averaged 12.6
sota has a lot of good players but no proven stars, and that might
the talent-rich Big Ten. Attrition within the conference could
f many potential bubble teams. And while Minnesota may have
1 of those players can see game action at the same time. Minne-
be a great team, butthat will likely be a few years down the road.
and the Gophers should make their second straight appearance
nt and are a dark horse contender for the Big Ten title.




0

0

0

0

I Thursday, November 12, 2009 - Tipoff -The Michigan Daily 5C

t's easy to let your guard
down when talking to John
Beilein.
In many ways, he
doesn't seem like the face
of the revived Michigan
men's basketball program.
The way he learns your name, the
sometimes-crooked smile, the sto-
rytelling ability - it's almost more
paternal than anything. He's at ease,
and he makes those around him feel
comfortable. It's not hard to under-
stand why Beilein, 56, enjoyed teach-
ing high school history classes more
than 30 years ago.
On the court, the lesson plan is
strictly basketball. That's where
Beilein's intensity and Midas Touch
appear. That's where - for four dif-
ferent programs that he has coached
- unexpected runs to the NCAA
Tournament have become realities.
Last season, it was the Wolverines'
turn, when they earned a tournament
bid for the first time in more than a
decade.
It's easy to trust Beilein when he
sits you down and tells you he's turn-
ing around a program.
"The first time I talked to (him), I
could hear it in his voice - the con-
fidence of how he was going to turn
this team around," freshman forward
Blake McLimans said.
That confidence - and the comfort
- in Beilein's words is one of the oft-
overlooked parts of his magic.
Andit's ahuge reasonwhyBeilein's
Wolverines are ready to step into the
limelight, stand up to the expecta-
tions and redefine themselves as one
of the nation's top basketball pro-
grams.
THE TIPPING POINT
Everyone's got a different answer
to the same question: When did the
Michigan basketball program really
turn the corner?
The media and nationwide fan-
base went crazy after the Wolverines
upsetNo. 4 UCLA and No.4 Duke last
fall - signature wins that put Michi-
gan in the 2009 NCAA Tournament
picture.
But junior guard Manny Harris
said the seeds of the turnaround were
planted in another contest against the
Bruins, one with a different result.
On Dec. 22, 2007, Michigan suffered
a 15-point loss to then-No. 8 UCLA at
home in the midst of a rough first sea-
son under Beilein.
"Even though we lost, that's a
game that kind of had me like, 'This
team is going to be good in a few
years to come,' " Harris said. "That's
one game that people look past, but I
thought we played real well. ... That's
kind of when it all clicked for me."
Harris wasn't alone. Former Fab

Fiver and current Michigan radio
broadcaster Jimmy King also saw
signs of progress scattered through-
out Beilein's first season - one where
the Wolverines finished a program-
worst 10-22.
"I saw it the first year when you
saw injuries, you had transfers,
you had guys getting used to a new
coach," King said. "How he interact-
ed with the team, how he coached the
team, what he was instilling in the
team. Even though it didn't resonate
in wins, I knew that he was going to
build a great program like he has in a
short amount of time."
Michigan State coach Tom Izzo, in
his 15th yearat the helm in East Lan-
sing, thinks it was even earlier.
"I'll be honest with you - I saw
it coming when (former Michigan
coach) Tommy Amaker was there,"
Izzo said at last month's Big Ten
Media Day. "John Beilein has done
a great job bringing his system in,
incorporating everything. It has con-
stantly been growing.... I (have seen)
it emerging the last four or five years,
and John has put frosting on the
cake."
Izzo pointed to some of the high-
profile recruits that Amaker brought
to Ann Arbor - like Harris and senior
forward DeShawn Sims, whom Izzo
called "two bona fide pros."
"I thought he made some serious
progress, and I think John has elevat-
ed it one more level," Izzo said.
That's the part nobody can deny
- Beilein is a major piece of the puz-
zle of Michigan's re-emergence on
the national stage. And he has done
this sort of thing everywhere he has
been.
Beilein's first Division I coaching
gig was at Canisius College in Buffalo,
N.Y., where he took a team that went
8-22 in his first season to the NCAA
Tournament once and the NIT twice
in his five-year tenure.
He moved to Richmond for anoth-
er five-year stint, leading the small
school to the tournament once and
two NIT appearances, too.
Then came West Virginia, yet
another repeat of the Beilein pattern:
A five-year stretch with two NCAA
Tournament appearances (including
an Elite Eight finish in his third sea-
son) and an NIT championship.
Really, what's going on at Michi-
gan is more of the same - except he's
finding success a little quicker than
normal.
"Coach Beilein talks about build-
ingup a program, that's what he loves
to do," said freshman guard Matt
Vogrich, who committed to Michi-
gan before the Wolverines earned
their NCAA Tournamentbid last sea-
son. "In West Virginia, he did it. And
Richmond, he did it. Everywhere he's

been, he did it. So I thought it was
awesome that I listened to him and
I believed in him and I knew that he
could do it, but I didn't know it would
be so quick. So quickly the team
evolved."
ISOLATE AND IGNORE
Dealing with hype is a good prob-
lem to have. But for a program that,
for the first time in more than a
decade, is now dealing with expecta-
tions higher than making the NIT, it
can be overwhelming.
Instead of being distracted by
thoughts of where the Wolverines
will be in March, the players have
decided to focus on this week's prac-
tice. And then their first game. And
then the practices after that.
"We can't hang on to last year
much longer," Beilein said. "Hopeful-
ly, we get used to that type of image
that there are high expectations here.
No one has higher expectations than
I do."
Some of those expectations center
around in-conference performance,
and others on a potential seed in the
NCAA Tournament. And for the first
time since the Fab Five in the early
1990s, reaching the tournament is
more than just a reasonable goal. It's
an expectation. There's an excite-

the Wolverines have been ranked ina
preseason poll in 12 years.
When asked about addressing pre-
season rankings during team meet-
ings or at any point before the season,
Beilein was adamant.
"I probably won't say one word
about it," he said. "I'll just say, 'All
right, we just do what we always do
and try to.' If I see them playing like
they think they're better than they
really are, then they'll hear about it. I
don't expect to even address it."
The upperclassman leaders have
addressed the rankings. Well, kind
of.
"They just said to play hard, and
we'll see what happens," said Vog-
rich, the freshman. "Don't look at the
rankings. Don't read about yourself.
Don't read about the team. Don't read
about what everybody else is saying.
All that matters is how we end up at
the end of the year and how the team
plays together and develops."
STAYING HUNGRY
Before his players started classes
this fall, Beilein sent them a letter. He
couldn't wait to call a team meeting
in person, and he couldn't sit around
and wait through the waning days of
August - the message was too impor-
tant. He didn't want his team to be

"The whole message was about
being focused," Sims said. "Don't let
nothing get us off our initial goal,
which is to become a better team."
And when that goal is something
players can visualize on a daily basis,
it makes it easier to reach. A sampling
of success - but not all of it - can do
that, too.
"We hungry, we definitely hungry,"
Harris said. "By losing that last game,
making it to the tournament, seeing
what it was like, that makes us even
more hungry."
Off-season workouts and body
transformation seem to validate that
claim. Players like Novak and red-
shirt sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry
are thinner than they were last sea-
son, and many players have talked at
length about adding muscle.
"If I worked a little harder, it could
only equal more success and oppor-
tunities for me and my team," Sims
said. "A lot of guys took that mindset
because they're hungry for more."
Beilein phrases it like this: Last
season, the players whetted their
appetites.
Now, it's time for the main course.
WHAT'S NEXT?
Fans would love to fast-forward to
the Sweet Sixteen, or some part of the
NCAA Tournament. The tournament
is the testing ground where expecta-
tions are met or exceeded.
But for 11 teams, that's not where
they'll define their success this sea-
son.
Welcome to the Big Ten.
How tough is it? Just this week,
ESPN's Andy Katz pegged it as the
nation's top conference.
Michigan was the seventh-place
team in the Big Ten last season and
made the NCAA Tournament. This
year, some Big Ten coaches think
there could be as many as eight or
nine bids to teams in the conference.
From the cornfields of Iowa to the
happy valley of Penn State, the Wol-
verines know their proving ground
- and what they need to achieve to
reach the next level.
"(If) they get a break or two,
they can win the league," Izzo said.
"Where I think you evaluate a pro-
gram is 'Are they contenders?' In Feb-
ruary, do they have a chance to win
the league?"
Izzo said it doesn't necessarily
matter ifa team actually wins a con-
ference title or not.
"You should be evaluated on
whether or not are you in a position,
have you put your team in a position
to be knocking on the door," Izzo said.
"If you're knocking enough, some-
body's going to answer. That's where
I think Michigan is. They've put their
See MICHIGAN, Page 8C

"It doesn't matter who
scores ... they just want to
win. That's what's going to
take them from the middle of
the pack to the front."
- Jimmy King, former Fab Fiver

ment around the team that's hard to
deny. Student season ticket sales sky-
rocketed from 480 last year to 2,537
sold for this season.
"We love that," sophomore guard
Zack Novak said. "It's fun to play in
front of your friends and the kids you
go to school with. If they're excited
about it, that just makes us more
excited about it."
It's not just the fanbase, either. It's
the national media and the country's
top coaches. Michigan came in at No.
15 in both the writers' and coaches'
preseason polls, the first time that

content with last season's surprising
success.
"Last year was last year," Beilein
said, describing the content of the
note. "Now, let's keep hunting wins.
... As long as I'm coaching here, we're
always hunting, no matter who the
opponent is."
That message has already taken
hold of the program in the weeks and
months since the letter was deliv-
ered.
The playersbringup the note often,
and they keep the same refrain: be the
hunter, get hungry, stay focused.


