i:j:4c j i c1 i0 an i1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, April 21, 2009

AMID THE SHUFFLE. A PAUSE AND A KISS

michigandaily.com
SMOKE-FREE UNIVERSITY
'U'to ban
smoking
on campus
Ban will take effect policy is aimed at reducing sec-
ondhand smoke around campus
on July 1, 2011 and in order to improve the overall
health of the University commu-
will affect all nity.
"Certainly irritation of second-
campus property hand smoke is an issue and what's
also important is doing the right
By NICOLE ABER thing for the health of the com-
DailyStaffReporter munity," Winfield said.
According to Winfield, another
All three University campuses major reason for implementing
will be smoke free when a new the policy is to decrease the cost
policy announced by University of health care for University fac-
administrators yesterday takes ulty and staff. Within five years of
effect on July 1, 2011. implementing such a policy, Win-
The initiative is meant to field said health care costs usually
reduce the health risks associ- start to decline.
ated with secondhand smoke and "We learned that the health
reduce health costs associated care costs are at least $2,000 more
with smoking. per year for people who smoke
"A healthier, smoke-free than for nonsmokers," he added.
physical environment will only According to a press release on
enhance the intellectual vigor of the policy, about14percentofUni-
our campuses," University Presi- versity employees are smokers. A
dent Mary Sue Coleman wrote 2006 survey found that about 16
in an campus-wide e-mail yes- percent of University students
terday. "Our decision to become smoke one or more cigarettes a
smoke-free aligns perfectly with month, according to Winfield.
the goals of MHealthy to improve There will be five subcom-
the health of our community." mittees - one each for students,
University Chief Health Offi- community relations, faculty
cer Robert Winfield and School and staff, communications and
of Public Health Dean Kenneth grounds and facilities - working
Warner will co-chair the Smoke to create the best way to imple-
Free University Steering Com- ment the policy, Winfield-said.
mittee, which is charged with In order to help smokers tran-
creating a dialogue on campus sition into a community with
about the policy in order to get this new policy, the University
input from students, faculty and will offer free behavioral coun-
staff seling and discounts on over-
In an interview with The the-counter smoking cessation
Michigan Daily, Winfield said the See SMOKING, Page 3A

LSA students Annemarie Friedo (left) and Christopher Porter (right) freeze on the Diag yesterday. The "freeze" was orchestrated as a promotion for the student film festi'
val, Lightworks, which will be held in the Natural Science Auditorium on April 24 and 25 from 6 p.m. to midnight.
ATHLETICS AND ACADEMICS
Ross Center, athletes oniy

Semi-official policy
raises questions
about separation of
student-athletes
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
It's Thursday night at 6:45 p.m.,
and the Ross Academic Center is
empty. The only sounds come from
the soft pattering of feet on the tile
and occasional whispers from a pair

of students studying in the lobby. A
few people occupy the dozens of
study rooms while six students are
using the 75 available computers
in the computer lab. But these stu-
dents aren't just students - they're
athletes, and they're the only stu-
dents allowed to use the building.
The Ross Academic Center
opened in January 2006. The Uni-
versity built the $12 million, 38,000
square-foot facility to serve as a
study place for the roughly 750 var-
sity student-athletes on campus.
When University officials
opened the center, they spoke of

allowing all students to use it. Yet
students who are not athletes - but
want a quiet place to work - are
turned away. The sign posted on
the front door reads: "This facility
is reserved for student-athletes. All
visitors must be accompanied by a
student-athlete and sign in at the
reception desk. Thank you."
Michael Stevenson, executive
associate director of athletics, said
the center is reserved for student-
athletes. However, lie said regular
students are allowed to enter if
they are working on a course proj-
ect with an athlete or if they are

taking a course that is taught in the
building.
Though there is no written pol-
icy prohibiting regular students
from using the facility, Stevenson
said if regular students wanted to
study in the building they would
not be allowed. He explains there
is not enough space for the athletes
let alone the entire student body.
"It's so crowded by 750 student-
athletes that we don't have enough
computers and computer stations
and study space to accommodate
student-athletes the way the build-
See ROSS CENTER, Page 7A


After 39-year career,
Williams's curtain call
Renowned prof. will
deliver 'very last'
lecture at 'U' tonight
By AMY MUNSLOW
Daily StaffReporter
"Beowulf" and John Milton
weren't what motivated Univer-
sity Alum Ben Wetherbee to keep
attending his English 350 class.
Instead, it was the warmth, pas-
sion and expressive hand gestures
of retiring English Prof. Ralph Wil-
liams that made him engage in the
literature - an experience he said
he will not soon forget.
The large, animated hands of
Williams that helped connect
Wetherbee to Milton have been
put to great use during the past 39 "."
years of his teaching career at the
University. During his time, Wil-
liams has become renown for his
welcoming personality, inviting
generations of students to join in on
his love for literature with his one- KRISTA BOYD/Daily
of-a-kind lectures. Prof. Ralph Williams during lecturing class last night. He will give his last lecture tonight.
Williams, who received both his He was the recipient of the Gold- ever Lifetime Achievement Golden
bachelor's degree and Ph.D. from en Apple Teaching Award in 1992. Apple Award.
the University, boasts a long list of The award, which is presented by The presentation of the award
grand achievements throughout his the student organization Students will take place tonight in Rackbam
career here. He has been the chair Honoring Outstanding University Auditorium at 7 p.m., during Wil-
of the English Department, director Teaching, was created to pay trib- liams's "very last" public lecture at
of programs in Florence, Italy and ute to outstanding teachers. Last the University - entitled "How with
head of the Great Books Program, month, Williams was nominated this rage shall beauty hold a plea?"
among many accomplishments. by students to receive the first- See WILLIAMS, Page 7A

UNIVERSITY BUDGET
'U' officials offer a sneak
peek at this year's budget

Administrators
say state funding
is expected to fall
three percent
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
Specific proposals and figures
in the University's budget are
often kept secret until the bud-
get is presented to the University
Board of Regents in June, but this
year administrators have released

much of the proposal early.
The mnformation, acquired
by The Michigan Daily over the
course of several interviews with
University President Mary Sue
Coleman, Provost Teresa Sullivan
and Phil Hanlon, vice provost for
academic and budgetary affairs,
includes several recommendations
for next year's budget.
One of the main sources of rev-
enue for the University's academic
mission - state appropriations -
won't be finalized until the final
state budget is passed in Septem-
ber. But, in an interview last week,
Hanlon said budget predictions

from the state place next year's
state budget down 15 to 20 percent
from this year's budget. Hanlon
said in the current budgeting, the
University has assumed a 3-per-
cent reduction in state funding, but
that the number will be revised as
June nears.
In an interview last month,
Sullivan said the uncertainty sur-
rounding state funding makes it
especially difficult to predict what
level of funding the University will
receive from the state.
Languagefromthefederalstim-
ulus bill requires states to continue
See BUDGET, Page 7A

UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS
The regents' plans for summer break

Board will consider
budget, tuition rates
and promotions
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
While many students will leave
campus in the next few weeks, Uni-
versityadministratorsandmembers
of the University Board of Regents
will be busy over the summer final-
izing decisions that will affect the

educational experience on campus
in the fall and for years to come.
The items on their collective
docket include settingtuition rates,
finalizing budget plans and deter-
mining faculty promotions.
In an interview yesterday, Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan outlined what
she knew University administra-
tors would present to the regents
over the next few months.
Sullivan said the regents would
consider faculty promotions at their
Maymeeting. Recommendations for
faculty promotions are made by the

deans of each school and are cur-
rently being reviewed by the Office
oftheProvost.Sullivansaidonceshe
and her staff have finished review-
ing the recommendations, she will
submit her recommendations to the
regents for final approval.
"The May meeting in Dear-
born is a big meeting for faculty
because that's when promotions get
approved," she said. "So there's a lot
of faculty members waiting anx-
iously for thatmeeting."
Yesterday Sullivan told mem-
See REGENTS, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 54
TOMORROW LU 34

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsyymichigandaily.com and let us know.

Today is the Daily's last print edition this semester. INDEX N EWS................
For continuing updates, check michigandaily.com. Vol. CXIX, No.134 O P I N I O N ..........
We will be back in print on May1S .2009Th Michigan Daily ARTS .................
michinunduliy rum

.......2A CLASSIFIEDS...............A.... 6A
.......4A SPORTS......................... 8 A
.....5A GRADUATION ISSUE ............11


14

2A - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

MONDAY: TEDA: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Caps Carct Explained

THURSDAY;
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Selling in style

The dreamlike, synthetic
sound of Sigur Ros' "Gob-
hledigook" sounds from the
entrance of Star Vintage,
drawing second glances
from passershy.
Inside, down a labyrinth-
like set of stairs, Julie Bai-
hak, an employee of the
vintage store - is fixing a
display of colorful hauhles.
"Sigur Ros - I hung out
with themrshackstage," Bai-
bak said with a laugh. "That
sounds pretentious, doesn't
itt"
The entire store seems to
he on display. Customers are
transported to an anachro-
nistic space that holds trin-
kets from all decades except
the present.
A row of go-go hoots in
Day-Gin colors is lined up
against the wall. Styrofoam

mannequins in various
states of undress sport neon
wigs.
"We doodle on the man-
nequin heads," Baibak said.
"We kind of just do whatever
we think will add some kind
of weird flair to this place."
Baibak said her favorite
part of the job is interacting
with customers.
"The people that come in
the store are really interest-
ing," Baibak said. "You get
to play dress-up with them;
it's really fun."
Out of the numerous dis-
plays, Baibak said she is most
fond of the furniture room,
which is located in thehback.
The furniture room
houses pretty much every-
thing one would expect to
find in a living room - hut
with a twist. An old-fash-

ioned television set shows
flickering hlack-and-white
static hats, and off-kilter
paintings hang crookedly
from the walls.
"We have customers
that come in (the furniture
room) all the timehbecause it
reminds them of their child-
hood," Baibak said.
Baibak, who had previ-
ously worked in Toledo at
a chocolate store, found her
job in Ann Arbor assa spur of
the moment derision.
"Whenever I think of
somethingcto do, I do it," she
said.
Her laissez-faire outlook
on life has led her to a bohe-
mian lifestyle.
"I'm kind of a hum, actu-
ally," Baibak said. "I don't go
to school. I hang out."'
- JASMINE ZHU

SAID ALSALA/taily
Julie Baibak reclines is the furniture room of Star Vintage, her favorite dispfay area is the
store. Baihak said the hest part of working for the retailer is interacting with customers.
CRIME NOTES CAM]

The Michigan Daily - mtchigandatly torn
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 481019-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chieg Business Manager
734-647-33h734-764-1058
gaca@michigandaityecom bugli@michigandailycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office ho,,ra: Sun-Thurn..11ta.. - 2 .m.
News Tips rnrwt@mirhigandaitycoam
torrections corrrctions@nichigandaitv~ox
Lettersno the Editor tothrdaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@oiohigardaity.on
Arts Section arts@michigandaily.om
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section nportt@xhchigardaiy.or
Display Salts display@michigandaity.comr
Classified Sates claasifrd@oiohigandaity.coam
Online Sales orioeada@michigandaiy.om
Finance financr@ichigantdaily.om
EDITORIAL STAFF
tourtney Ratkowiak ManingoEditor ratkowiak@mnhhigandaity.coam
Jacob Smifoaitz MnagigsNews Editor mioit@ihigandaiyvom
SENIOR S EDTORS:tnJilliatn Bermn, reor Calero,CatinSchneider,
LindynStevens
ASSISTNsNESonITORroS:Mattrona~aso, ejain S. Chase, Jena Skolttr,
Robert Soave EditorialtPage Editor soave@michigandaity.om
Andy Reid Managing SportstEditor reid@mihigandaity.om
SENISPOReTS ETORS:osicole rah, ikeEitin, DanFedn, Chis
Herrin,Rth Lincoln,
uASSTNSORTSoEDTORntRyn Katen, ao Kar, 0asonKohlaeChris Meszaros,
Aerst'aper i, olt ,Rwig
David Watnick Managing Artditor watnick@nichigandaiyomr
SEIRARSEITORS: Jamie lo,Bandon Conadi, WitneyPow
uASITAuNT T DIosh~ uaayr,uAndrewtLapi~n,aeeaBeanag~ner
Zachary Meisnernand photo@michigandailyomx
CfReeder Managingrhoto Editors
SEstNIO HOO DITOS Sid Alsalah, Chanel Vonabsburoth~ringen
ASIT NTPOnOEDTS axColtin,,ChrisDzonbak,nRob MrniSmjos lon
AngeatChill and design@miohigandaity.com
Maureen Stych Managing DesignoEditors
Jessicaffosgenchian MagaznerEditor vosgrrchian@michigandaiy.comn
David Menian MutimediauEditor merian@michigandailyrcon
Kaherine Mitcheflltopy Chief mitchell@michigandaity.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Micaet Schrotenboer Disptay AdvertisingeSatesManager
sNmn, ChriieiPhillips
Ryan Businski Clasified SalesMantgr
Marissa Genber nineuSales Manager
Bnm English ProdctinesignsManager
Menyl Huffeng Layout Manager
Vivian Leerand Emily Loveless tinance Muanrs
The Mchigan Daily (ISSO N 4-967 isrublishedMday rthrough Friday durig the fall and tinter
trm~s btudntsat the UirsityalofichiganOncpyistaailable fretfhre tall reder.
Additonal cope myb p ikerd iup t orheDaly's affiefr ,$2. Subsciposfr atlland winr trnm
lSetemt hroug April)lva..mailrr$200. Yarrundisuscriptios(allWintrer piad
Summriues) are $22Su~sitiosst b prepid.TheicignDil sa membrofthe
AsociatedPsaindrThe Assciatd ollegate Press

PUS EVENTS & NOTES

Undergrads iPod touch
caught crashing swiped in the
grad-only event Dude

WHEREt Henry Vaughata
Public Health building
WHEN: Saturday at about
p.m.
WHAT: About t0 undergradu-
ate students gained access to
a graduate student event, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
graduate students had taken
care of ther situatioto hy the
time the officers arrived.

WHERE: The Duderstadt
Building
WHEN: Monday at about
12:55 am.
WHAT: A silver iPod touch
with a black case was stolen
from the third floor of the
buildinog, University Police
reported. The iPod had been
left unattended for about 45
minutes.

Talk on genetics
and evolution
WHAT: University of Illinois
Physics Prof. Nigel Golden-
feldt will discuss how the
genetic code gives clues to
"relics" of early life and what
this connection says about
the evolutionoary process.
WHO: Center for the Study
of Complex Systems
WHEN: Today from 4:00
p.M. to 5:10 p.m.
WHERE: West Hall
Relax, relieve
stress of finals
WHAT: Free event with
games, novelties, arts and
crafts, food, massages and
perfornmances for students
taking a break from studying
for finals.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Progratms
WHEN: Today from G6p.m. to
t10 p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Commons

Concert by
Grecian blues
and folk group
WHAT: Free concert by the
folk and blues music group
Rebetiki Istoria from Athens,
Greece
WHO: Department of Classi-
cal Studies
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Stamps Auditori-
um, Walgreen Drama Center
CORRECTIONS
" An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (In Other
Ivory Towers: Protesters rally
for respect forAuion-Amer-
icans), misstated that the
quote from Jenny Lau came
from an interview with the
Tufts Daily. The quote was
reported by the Tufts Daily
from a rally.
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1A Texas man on death row
was denied after arguing
his constitutional rights
were violated by jurots who
consulted the Bible during
deliberation, according to The
Associated Press. The passage
states that a murderer who
used an iron object to kill "shall
surely he put to death."
2Seniors, look hack at the
last four years in news
including the evolution
of the Batman series, Obama,
Lloyd Carr and Rich Rod.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE GRADUATION
ISSUE, INSIDE
3 Susan Boyle, the Scot-
tish amateur singer who
appeared on the real-
ity show "Britain's Got Talent"
has set a record for the num-
her of online video views in a
single week, according to The
Washington Post. The video of
Boyle's performance has been
viewed over 85 million times.

Drunard its Student falls,
hospital staffer ijrsfo

aw_--

WHERE: University of Michi-
gan Hospital Emergency Room
WHEN: Saturday at about
midnight
WHAT: An intoxicated patient
punched a staff member in
the face, University Police
reported.

WHEREIU: Couzens Restdence
Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 1:25
WHAT: A student slipped
and cut his foot, University
Police reported. Thae subject
was escorted to thte University
Hospital emergetncy room.


."°
I
w
i re
< m
Y
5 W

Professor Cameron
You. have taugt generations who have gone forh to dlo g
in your name. Curd r estthasftr your commitment and
"* i E 'Ihum au * 983 nd.L
" : >Srcan ' ad g yjar w ~t~.&tscw

4
I

I J _ _ _'


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, A pril 21 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
440 lbs. of cocaine
seized by police at
Canadian border
Canadian authorities say bor-
der agents have seized about 440
pounds of cocaine in two busts at
the Ambassador Bridge that links
Detroit and Windsor, Ontario.
The Canada Border Services
Agency said yesterday both busts
happened after searches of Cana-
da-bound tractor-trailers.
The agency says its agents dis-
covered about 176 pounds (80 kilo-
grams) of cocaine April 12 inside a
truck. The agency tells the Detroit
Free Press a 45-year-old Bramp-
ton, Ontario, man faces drug traf-
ficking charges.
The agency says the bust came
three days after agents found about
264 pounds (120 kilograms) of
cocaine in a search that led to the
arrest of two Quebec men, ages 29
and 39.
NEW YORK
GM spent $2.8M
in federal lobbying
in first quarter
General Motors Corp. spent $2.8
million lobbying the U.S. govern-
ment in the first three months of
2009, while the company was sur-
viving on $13.4 billion in federal
loans, according to a government
J filing.
The Detroit automaker said it
spent the money lobbying a range
of issues, including the economic
stimulus package, environmen-
tal, consumer safety and health
issues.
h The automaker's lobbying costs
fell 15 percent from the $3.3 mil-
lion it spent in the fourth quarter
of 2008, but are up from the $2.7
million it spent in the third quar-
ter, according to filings.
GM spokesman Greg Martin
said the company did not spend any
of its lobbying budget on obtaining
government assistance, nor did it
spend any of the federal aid it has
received thus far on lobbying.
"We're a part of arguably one
of the most regulated industries
and we provide a voice in complex
policy discussions," Martin said.
"We meet-strict reporting require-
ments."
MORGANTOWN, W. Va.
FBI workers
accused of spying
on dressing room
Two FBI workers are accused of
usingsurveillanceequipmenttospy
on teenage girls as they undressed
and tried on prom gowns at a char-
ity event at a West Virginia mall.
The FBI employees have been
charged with conspiracy and com-
mitting criminal invasion of pri-
vacy. They were working in an FBI
satellite control room at the mall
when they positioned a camera on
temporary changing rooms and
zoomed in for at least 90 minutes
on girls dressing for the Cinder-

ella Project fashion show, Marion
County Prosecutor Pat Wilson said
yesterday.
Gary Sutton Jr., 40, of New
Milton and Charles Hommema of
Buckhannon have been charged
with the misdemeanors and face
fines and up to a year in jail on
each charge if convicted. Sutton
has been released on bond, Wil-
son said, and Hommema is to be
arraigned later this week. Wilson
did not know Hommema's age.
LONDON
Steven Hawking
hospitalized, very ill
Stephen Hawking, the Brit-
ish mathematician and physicist
famed for his work on black holes,
was rushed to a hospital yesterday
and was seriously ill, Cambridge
University said.
Hawking has been fighting a
chest infection for several weeks
and was being treated at Adden-
brooke's Hospital in Cambridge,
the university city northeast of
London, the university said.
"Professor Hawking is very ill,"
said Gregory Hayman, the univer-
sity's head of communications. "He
is undergoing tests. He has been
unwell for a couple of weeks."
Later in the afternoon, Hayman
said Hawking was "now comfort-
able but will be kept in hospital
overnight."
The illness had caused Hawking
to cancel an appearance at Arizona
State University on April 6.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

SMOKING
From Page 1A
products for students, faculty
and staff. University employees
will also have reduced co-pays on
prescription cessation products,
Winfield said.
In the fall of 2010, Winfield
said the committee will bring the
proposed policy before Univer-
sity administrators for an official
review.
But until that point, Winfield
said there are still several ques-
tions as to how the policy will be
implemented to create a smooth
transition for all members of the
University community. Because
this plan is still in the develop-
mental stages, Winfield said it is
important to get input from many
different groups on campus, as
well as from other private com-
panies that neighbor University
property.
"What we want to do is hear
from people about how we can
get from here to our goal, and
what that goal will look like in
terms of impact on people," Win-
field said.
Winfield brought up various
challenges that may arise with the
implementation of such a policy,
including how to deal with smok-
ing at football game tailgates,
near performing arts centers and
on the University golf course, in
which guests of the University
are often present.
Winfield discussed the policy
with members of the Senate Advi-
sory Committee on University
Affairs at its meeting yesterday,
and said another concern is how
to handle potential apprehen-
sions of international students
who may come from countries
in which smoking is an intricate
part of their culture or national
tradition.
The University's Department
of Public Safety will not give
out tickets for violations of the
policy, Winfield said, but specific
repercussions for disobeying the
policy are being discussed. There
will also be changes made to the
Statement of the Student Rights
and Responsibilities Handbookto
reflect the new policy, he said.
Winfield said he expects there
will be some dissent regarding
the policy, but that in two years
time, most of the dialogue will be
exhausted.
"I think most smokers under-
stand that over the years their
behavior is not conducive to non-
smokers, and I suspect that those
smokers have come to grips with
this to some degree," he said.
Similar policies have already
been implemented on more than

260 college campuses across the
country, including the University
of California at San Francisco,
Indiana University and the Uni-
versity of Iowa, according to the
press release.
Karen Whitney, chair of the
Indiana University Purdue Uni-
versity Indianapolis Smoking Pol-
icy, said the tobacco-free policy
was well received by members of
the university community when
it was implemented in August
2006.
Whitney, IUPUI's dean of
students, said the smoke-free
policy's compliance with the uni-
versity's mission as a health and
life sciences campus has allowed
the university to be highly suc-
cessful in its implementation of
the regulation.
"It has significantly reduced
smoking on university property,"
Whitney said. "It has changed
and reformed the campus. It is
now considered unacceptable to
smoke on campus."
Whitney said while the policy
has improved the air quality on
campus, there is no evidence that
it has reduced the cost of health
care for its faculty and staffE
But smoke-free policies are
not welcomed by all, including
George Koodray, New Jersey
state coordinator for The Smok-
er's Club of the Citizens Freedom
Alliance.
Koodray said banning smoking
on college campuses is part of a
growing trend to punish people
for non-obtrusive, legal behavior.
"We don't understand why in
America the law should penalize
people for a practice that's not
offensive to anyone," Koodray
said. "This kind of a ban on the
consumption of a legal product
doesn't have adverse affects on
anyone. We just can't under-
stand where this policy is coming
from."
Koodray said everyone, includ-
ing nonsmokers should be wor-
ried about the implementation of
this policy, as it could lead to bans
on other legal substances.
"A lot of people may not object
to this kind of policy because
they don't smoke," Koodray said.
"But down the road, it's a slippery
slope, where we see this taking
form to other prohibitions in the
future that people don't approve
of but are completely legal."
Engineering freshman Chris
Pike, a smoker, said although he
thinks the University shouldn't
be able to conduct students' per-
sonal behavior, it is still a good
thing they are trying to imple-
ment.
"I guess they can tell us what
to do; it's a public university,"
Pike said. "But we nay to enhere.

Detroit Free Press reporter Jim Schaefer, right, lifts Senior Managing Editor Jeff Taylor as reporter M.L t rick, left, celebrate
their Pulitzer Prize for local reporting yesterday in Detroit.
Free Press wins Pulitzer for the
Detroit mayor scandal coverage

Reporters Schaefer
and Elrick first to
uncover Kwame's text
messages to Beatty
DETROIT (AP) - Struggling
simply to survive as readership and
advertising drop, the Detroit Free
Press celebrated winning a Pulit-
zer Prize yesterday for its report-
ing of a sex scandal that brought
down the city's mayor.
Minutes before the Pulitzer was
announced, most of the Free Press
staff crowded into the close quar-
ters around the cluttered corner
desks of Ji Schaefer and M.L.
Elrick, the main reporters on the
story.
When Elrick, reading from a
computer screen, announced,
"It looks like we won," applause
exploded and continued for nearly
two minutes. Schaefer and Elrick
hugged, as did other staffers.
"The community is in a better
place now than it was a year ago,
and although we take no joyin what
Detroit had to go through, we take
a lot of satisfaction that we did our
job well," Paul Anger, Free Press
vice nresidentand editorsaidlin

an interview. "We upheld the First
Amendment. We upheld the pub-
lic's right to know, and Detroit can
move forward with confidence."
Schaefer and Elrick were the first
to uncover steamy text messages
between a married Kwame Kil-
patrick, the mayor at the time, and
Christine Beatty, his chief of staff.
Excerpts were first published in
January 2008 and led to both being
charged and eventually jailed.
The reporting opened the door to
intense scrutiny of Kilpatrick, his
finances and the operations of the
mayor's office.
The paper has not said how
it obtained the messages, which
revealed that Kilpatrick and Beat-
ty lied about their affair under oath
during a 2007 whistle-blowers'
trial. The messages were left on
Beatty's city-issued pager.
Following a short investigation,
Wayne County prosecutor Kym
Worthy charged Kilpatrick and
Beatty in March 2008 with per-
jury, misconduct and obstruction
of justice. Kilpatrick was required
to leave the mayor's office after
he pleaded guilty to two counts of
obstruction of justice and no con-
test to assault.
The award for local reporting
is the ninth Pulitzer for the Free

Press, and Elrick and Schaefer were
elated to have been a part of it.
Elrick said he was once offered a
job as Kilpatrick's press secretary
but turned it down.
"In retrospect I made probably
thebestcareerdecision Ievermade
by not taking that job," he said.
"The reason that job was attractive
is because this guy had all the tools
to be the greatest mayor of the 21st
century, and he threw it all away."
In an interview after the award
was announced yesterday, Schaefer
said: "This whole thing has been a
real emotional roller coaster ride
for me, from extreme sadness for
the city of Detroit to have to go
through this, to joy when Kym
Worthy charged the mayor."
It's been a tough year for Detroit
in general. The mortgage crisis has
hit the city as hard as any place in
the country. The turmoil of the
domestic auto industry continues to
lead to job cuts and add to the city's
skyrocketing unemployment.
As the economy has foundered,
the fortunes of the Free Press and
its main competitor, The Detroit
News, have dimmed.
Home delivery has been reduced
to the three days a week most pop-
ular with advertisers - Thursdays,
Fridavs and Sundavs



4

4A - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C74c fftcht*gan,43at'6lU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
'08-'09 Edgar Awards
It's not an award, it's a prize
B ack when J. Edgar Hoover, that infallible defender of our
constitutional rights, was playing dictator and spying on
Americans as head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
the Daily's editorial page handed out the Edgar Awards annu-
ally to individuals and institutions best embodying his many
admirable characteristics. Of necessity, we revived the tradition
in recent years.
And so we present the sixth annual Coleman is still hanging on to hers (though
Edgar Awards: she usually gives it back).

The main message is staying thin.
It's good for you, and it's good for the planet:'
- Phil Edwards, senior lecturer at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, commenting on
a new study that showed obesity contributes to global warming, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ELAINE MORTON I NATURE CAL E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
C-1m o Q - Ke o aw fv
otxs ly? -of-onEce t Sv
f -1 it
YYOs/i

VI" -i

Free will, free trade

" The Joe the Plumber Edgar for shal-
low, pointless campaign gimmick goes
to the reMICHIGAN Campaign for its
"we're not a party, we're a campaign" mon-
iker in the Michigan Student Assembly
presidential election. This reNAME was
reDUMB as reHELL.
" The Hash Bash Edgar for hippies who
love pot goes to Michiganvoters, who legal-
ized medical marijuana with the passage of
Proposal 1 in the November election. Go
ahead, voters, pretend it's just for sick people.
We know you just wanted to get high.
" The "Rock of Love" with Bret
Michaels Edgar for best bleached-blonde
hair goes to the West Quad arsonist, whose
rln rin~~~~r h raed dznr k.

" The state of Michigan Edgar for dis-
criminating against gay people goes to Cal-
ifornia, Arizona and Florida for banning
same-sex marriage in the November elec-
tion. Though recent events may be finally
reshaping the legal climate in favor of LGBT
rights, it's worth remembering that just a
couple months ago, voters across the coun-
try were proving they're bigots.
* The Sarah Palin Edgar for most clue-
less candidate for office in a presidential
election goes to the MSA presidential
candidates from the Defend Affirma-
tive Action Party. Sorry people, it's over.
We'll start taking you seriously when you
come up with a tangible agenda for MSA.
haIinrVe V jnVdr frx

glow-in-the-aarx tresses were
forever immortalized in the
security camera snapshot of
him. Police will be standing by
if he shows up to the Daily to
accept his award.
* The Detroit Lions Edgar
for god-awful, cringe-worthy
football season goes to this
year's University of Michi-
gan football team. But on the
bright side, now the team is
only 35 years away from break-
ing its previous record for con-
secutive trips to bowl games.
* The Bush administra-
tion Edgar for failing to
resolve any crisis in the Mid-
dle East goes to the Michigan
Student Assembly. Bush's
invasion of Iraq didn't help,
but neither did MSA's endless
discussions of foreign policy.
Thanks, MSA - showing that
movie featuring Palestinians
and Israelis getting along
made a difference.
* The Bird Flu Edgar for
hyped epidemic goes to the Ros
Business's dreaded noroviru
earlier this semester. Did anyo
get sick from this?
* The Peanut Butter Edgar f
delicious but actually hurting pe
Mike Milano. Unlike the cookie
his name, Milano beats people u
* The AIG Executivesl
receiving modest bonuses go
versity President Mary Sue Cc
her most recent (and most egr
ary increase. While most AIG
promised to give back their bo
the country raised its collective

-re oiy:gar tor a
confusing policy that deter-
mines how much tuition a stu-
f dent pays goes to Rackham
graduate school for its new
continuous enrollment policy.
No one understands what this
policy does, only that gradu-
ate students seem really pissed
about it.
" The Recording Industries
AssociationofAmerica Edgr
for being lax on piracy goes to
the government of Somalia.
While the RIAA promised ear-
lier this year to stop filing law-
suits against college students
who illegally share files on the
Internet, Somalia's been let-
- ting its piracy situation get out
of hand for a couple years now.
And you thought things involv-
ing piracy couldn't get worse
than Pirates of the Caribbean 3.
* The second annual
Kwame Kilpatrick Edgar
for staying in office after an
embarrassing scandal stem-
most over- ming from the use of an electronic device
s School of goes to University Associate Prof. Yaron
s outbreak Eliav for keeping his teaching post after
ne actually soliciting sex from a University law stu-
dent over the Internet. Last year, when
commenting on the award's recipient, Tony
or sounding Vuljaj, the Daily's editors wrote: "Appar-
ople goes to ently career-ending scandals these days
that shares must involve hiring expensive hookers."
p. This year, we've been proven wrong - not
even hookers could take down Eliav.

n recent months, there has been
an explosion of interest in the
Austrian School of Economics, a
free market school
of thought. This is
due to a variety of
factors, from the
risingpopularityof
Ron Paul and Peter
Schiff on YouTube
to the mounting
opposition toward
President BarackV
Obama's interven- VINCENT
tionist economic PATSY
policies. Most of
the recent atten-
tion has been directed at the school's
practical policy conclusions, such as
its call to abolish the central bank and
to avoid bailouts. These policies set
Austrian economics apart from most
other schools. But what is important
is not the Austrian policy conclusions
themselves, but rather the undeniable
truths underpinning such policies.
Austrian economics describes fun-
damental laws of nature that can't be
violated. Obama is not only wasting
money, but his current economic poli-
cies are using our arms to Overctime
gravity. If you disagree with Austrian
economics, you must attack the axioms
on which it's built. If you attack the pol-
icy prescriptions, then you are wasting
your time because the policy prescrip-
tions are correct, given the axioms.
Whenever someone picks up an
Austrian book and begins reading, it's
much different then most other books
on economics. For one thing, there
are very few mathematical equations
or graphs. Austrian economics text-
books also proceed logically, with
each new chapter either building
from the previous ones, or from addi-
tional axioms, which are introduced
and justified. For example, a common
presentation is to use Robinson Cru-
soe on a desert island, so that you can
analyze human beings and nature,
and add in more elements later such
as Friday (to analyze exchanges).
Austrian economics uses
praxeologythe science of human

action. This is a deductive system
used to reach economic truths. A
deductive system will state an axiom
or axioms, and logic is used to reach
economic or mathematical law. This
is the only possible place where Aus-
trian economics can be attacked.
Axioms are themselves unproved or
unstated and, as such, are susceptible
to scrutiny. The fundamental axiom
of praxeology is that human beings
have free will and are conscious
actors. From this and other axioms
(such as preferring goods sooner
rather than later), all economic law
and policy prescriptions are derived.
The most common knock on Aus-
trian economics theory is that it is not
"scientific" enough. Mainstream eco-
nomics uses a method called logical
positivism to derive economic law,
copying physics as if to gain prestige.
The scientific method is applied, a
regularly occurring event is observed,
facts are recorded and a hypothesis is
postulated. Then, the hypothesis is
retested until a suitable explanation
for the cause is found.
But economics can't start there. In
the first place, the fundamental cause
of economic'interactions is'already"
known - namely that human beings
are conscious actors. Unlike particles
in physics, which have no intention
or consciousness, human beings have
free will. We have and make choices,
and this determines our economic
interactions with one another. Human
actions can never be compartmental-
ized into quantitative laws, and thus
our actions cannot be predicted.
Attempting to use math to deter-
mine laws is also flawed. Mathe-
matical relationships are functional,
meaning that X is a function of Y and
Y is also a function of X. With eco-
nomics, there is only one direction,
namely that the subjective demand
impresses itself on the economic sys-
tem. The value of a product is sub-
jective (think of love, which cannot
be measured) and provided by the
human. Since the object is not con-
scious, it cannot value us back, and
therefore no reciprocal functions can

capture this relationship.
Another significant problemisthat,
unlike in the field of physics, con-
trolled experiments are impossible
in economics. With a physics experi-
ment, all variables are held constant
except for one. The independent vari-
able is changed and the results are
measured to determine laws. With
economics, no such experiments are
possible. There are multitudes of
constantly changingvariables for any
series of economic events, much less
the near infinite number of interac-
tions which take place every day for
every choice of everyone on Earth.
Human behavior
is not a scientific
constant.
Buyinggum today is different than
buying gum tomorrow, even if I shop
in the same store, buy the same gum
and talk to the same clerk. I have
different information and different
goals for the particular moment. If
they were held constant, much like
modern microeconomics treats them,
life would be a miserable existence,
where you would repeat the same
tasks everyday without being able to
"accomplish" any longterm goal.
Economics is a science that is qual-
itative, not quantitative. The current
perplexity that some feel when tak-
ing economics courses here occurs
because this point is never acknowl-
edged. So the next time you hear
someone predict that doing policy A
will result in reward B for people C,
know that this is nonsense, because
humans do not - and are not predeter-
mined to - act ina certain way.
And this axiom proves Austrian
economic policies correct.
- Vincent Patsy can be reached
at vapatsy@umich.edu.

4
4

I
4

Edgar for
es to Uni-
oleman for
egious) sal-
executives
nuses after
pitchforks,

* The Rupert Murdoch Edgar for hav-
ing a monopoly on journalism goes to...The
Michigan Daily! Today the Ann Arbor
News, tomorrow the world - or at least the
Michigan Review. We hear they don't even
have an office anymore.

IAN SINCLAIR I
A symbol of strength

Since it was installed in the fall of 2008, I
have yet to hear someone say something posi-
tive about the big orange sculpture in front of
the new University of Michigan Museum of
Art - Orion by Mark di Suvero. While I'm not
really offended by this, I do think the sculp-
ture deserves some credit.
What doesn't offend me is how some people
simply find it ugly, grotesque or a "monstrosity
inorange." How can I, or anyone, disagree with
these sentiments? Art is, by nature, subject to
opinion and open to interpretation. What I
find sublime, another may find unsightly. I'm
not writing to convince you that this piece is
aesthetically pleasing - that's a battle even I'm
not foolish enough to instigate.
But what I can do is tell you why Ialike Orion,
and, more importantly, why I think it's signifi-
cant as a symbolic representation - not the
symbolic representation - of the University's
past, present and future.
Located within a triangle formed by the
Michigan Union, Angell Hall and the Law
Quad, the sculpture garners associations with
the University's rich history through its close
proximity to, arguably, the three most recog-
nizable buildings on campus. Acting as the
facade of the University, these buildings are
designed in various architectural styles often
associated with institutions of higher learning
(Oxbridge, neoclassical, etc.) and thus connote
a sense of age and wisdom.

These connotations ground the sculpture
in the University's heritage and give it a meta-
phorical foundation.
The sculpture itself projects what I see as
the University's present and future, begin-
ning with the three supporting legs (the literal
foundation). Leaning away from the Union, the
bulk of the weight rests on the thickest I-beam.
The giant 'X' formed by the other two legs sta-
bilizes the structure and converges along with
three amorphous curves. These three legs give
the piece its literal and metaphorical stability,
a kind of heroic stoicism. At the intersection,
the curves facilitate and frame a transition to
the upper arms and skewed third leg. Project-
ing wildly into space, they stand for Michi-
gan's future, a strong and dynamic beacon,
precariously growing out of its strong foun-
dation. Contrasted against and complimented
by the blue of the sky, the orange arms appear
to soar. I must admit that I can't help but feel
inspired by such a beautiful combination of art
and engineering.
I don't ask that you fall in love with this piece
or even try to think of it as anything other than
ugly, but I do ask that you reconsider your view
that it is a scar on the face of campus. In con-
text, Orion symbolizes what we have to look
forward and reminds us of what we love about
the University of Michigan.
Ian Sinclair is an LSA sophomore.

Michigan Vision Party needs to
deliver on campaign promises
TO THE DAILY:
The Michigan Vision Party assumed power in the
Michigan Student Assembly just about a month ago in one
of the most anticipated elections in recent history. The
party won in large part because it promised fundamental
change to the way business was conducted. We proposed
a new vision for campus based on accountability and
transparency to the students. Success, however, has been
hard to come by thus far.
The Daily has rightly taken note of this, most notably
with its recent editorial about the funding process for
student groups. The current system is indeed flawed and
we are working towards overhauling the process. Student
organizations should take careful note of the consequenc-
es of these changes. As the funding process and the crite-
ria for a good funding request are met by more and more
student organizations, the decisions of the Budget Priori-
ties Committee will become a lot harder. While this will
certainly hurt organizations that have been able to pull
the right levers in the past, we think it's an important step
towards a more transparent campus government.
Committee and chair elections held recently have
shown the Michigan Vision Party's success in this drive
towards transparency. Real competition existed for near-
ly every arm of MSA and we're pleased that this has been
such a deliberative process. The same can be said for the
executive slate. Hardly a rubber stamp of approval, the
Assembly took great care in examining and later con-
firming what MSA President Abhishek Mahanti and Vice
President Mike Rorro believed to be the best team to lead
the assembly. In addition, the promise of a new, revamped
and much more accessible MSA website appears to be on
track. Updates include a blog, a wiki and forms that are
readily available. This is a much welcome and overdue
necessity that will allow information about the assem-
bly and its procedures to be readily accessible to every
student. It has been a long time in coming and its launch
cannot afford to be delayed any longer if this goal of trans-
parency is to remain a credible ambition.
But simply choosing a good team and launching a website
is not enough. The Assembly, minus the summer months

Puzzle connoisseurs disappointed
by Daily distribution problems
TO THE DAILY:
Today, the 20th of April 2009, is my last Monday as
an undergraduate at the University. As I braved the ele-
ments, which in today's case presented an unforgiving-of-
my-new-haircut downpour, to go to my last lecture, I was
sorely disappointed to find that the edition of the Daily
had not yet arrived in East Hall. What was I to do? My tra-
dition of drowning out the professor as I tried to complete
the crossword was ruined. This daily reaffirmation that
my expensive University education has taught me at least
enough vocabulary and trivial knowledge to complete the
easiest of the week's puzzles is nothing to scoff at. The
fact that I was denied the opportunity to flex my intel-
lectual prowess is very upsetting.
Logging onto your website now, I see that there is an
issue and am crushed that your distributors have slacked
in their delivery on this most important Monday of my
collegiate career. It is now 2:00 p.m., and at work, col-
leagues and I have gone on a quest and have not yet locat-
ed an edition in the Natural Science Building, West Hall
or East Hall. I really hope that you guys correct this issue
tomorrow and that I have a tangible copy of the Daily in
my hands. Here's to hoping that the crossword aficiona-
dos can spend the last day of the winter semester enjoying
the quiet respite of the daily puzzle..
Nicolette Ognjanovski
LSA senior

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
when the full assembly is not in session, has about eight
months to make a real impact on student life and campus
affairs. One month has already ticked off the clock. The
executives need to make the best of its remaining time.
At this point, they get a C+, yet there is ample time for the
improvement necessary for the assembly to achieve its
goals. University students deserve leadership that is noth-
ing short of an A.
Bradon Smith
Michigan Vision Party Message Chairman

4
ii


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

"Over there. That's where the Internet is."

'Crank' has no energy

'High Voltage' suffers from
typical sequel pitfalls and
adds nothing to the original
By HANS YADAV
Daily Arts Writer
Audiences had long given up on expecting
anything different from Jason
Statham movies other than
ridiculous fight scenes and
enough explosions to make Crank: High
the New Year's celebration
in Times Square look like an Voltage
everyday backyard barbeque. At Showcase
But then, a few years ago, the and Qualityl6
first "Crank" movie came
out. With its perfect comedy/ Lionsgate
action. balance, insanely fast-
paced tempo and hilarious puns and one-liners,
"Crank" tweaked the action film formula enough
to warrant a sequel had potential to be just as
successful as the original. But "Crank: High Volt-
age" isn't nearly as electrifying as its predecessor

and falls drastically short of expectations.
"Voltage" continues where the first "Crank"
left off, with Chinese mobsters stealingStatham's
heart and replacing it with an artificial one. He
wakes up. He's pissed. He wants his "strawberry
tart" back. Of course something happens to the
battery pack that periodically charges his fake
heart, so Statham must resort to creative meth-
ods to "juice" himself (like creating static elec-
tricity by rubbing up on people).
There was always a level of absurdity when
it came to the concept behind the first "Crank,"
but at least it hovered around the "what if" line.
"Voltage" crosses that line and then some. In
"Voltage," Statham - badass as he is - achieves
a superhero-like status that makes him invul-
nerable to everything, including extremely high
voltage power lines. This is a problem due to
the same reason many people hate Superman:
Nobody wants to see someone who just can't die.
The biggest problem with the movie is that
it feels segmented - action scenes and comedy
scenes aren't integrated cohesively like they
were in the original. Some of the best aspects
of "Crank" were the sporadic "what-the-fuck"
scenes placed here and there. While never cen-

tral to the plot, those moments were funny in an
awkward way and definitely added to the experi-
ence. Like a little kid splashing paint on a white
wall, "Voltage" throws these scenes in as often
as possible without blending them in an appro-
priate fashion. They are over-the-top tasteless
too, like one involving a fetishistic gay bar. The
scenes aren't witty or funny in any way and just
distract the audience.
The levels of gore and raunchiness have been
turned up in "Voltage." The original had some,
but nowhere near enough to make audiences
cringe (after all, it isn't a "Saw" movie). The
sequel, on the other hand, relishes in blood and
nudity. Ultimately, the extra filth strips the movie
of what little class it had to begin with.
Watching "Voltage" just doesn't feel the same
as watching the original. The focus is scattered
on multiple levels, Statham's invincibility is hard
to overcome and the debauchery no longer cre-
ates any entertainment value. The truly shock-
ing aspect of the movie is that it ignores what
worked with the first "Crank." By reverting back
to the same mindless formula, "Voltage" lamen-
tably locks itself into the banal mold of another
typical Statham movie.

'Harper's
conventiol
By ERIC CHIU
Daily Arts Writer
For a network traditionally
associated
with parents
and the elder-
ly, CBS pres- Harpe's
ents an odd
dichotomy Island
with "Harp- Thursdays
er's Island": at 10p.m.
It takes afterCB
the imrder CB
mysteries of
Agatha Christie, but keeping in
line with the ever-increasing
bubble of tolerable violence,
the action gets bookended by
generous levels of gore. Putting
aside the show's predilection
for stomach-churning bloodlet-
ting, though, "Harper's Island"
doesn't do much to distinguish
itself, getting the usual tropes
of the genre right without doing
much else.
The show follows a bunch of
people who gather to celebrate
a wedding on Harper's Island,
a secluded locale off the coast
of Seattle. The island is the site
of a series of unsolved murders
that happened years before. As
people start to die one-by-one,
those remaining try to solve the
mystery before the killer gets
them next.
Anchoring a drama around
a concept as well-worn as the
whodunit seems positively anti-
quated in an environment with
shows like ABC's "Lost" and
FOX's "24." And "Harper's"
manages to feel as dated as its
inspiration might suggest. The
gore notwithstanding - it milks
its 10 p.m. slot for as much blood
as it can - everything about the
show feels familiar.
The 25-memberensemblecast
is largely filled with unknowns
- Harry Hamlin ("Veronica
Mars") is one of the few recog-
nizable names - but the show
gives them little to do beyond
fulfilling their story-mandated
roles. CBS.com even stereotypes
the characters by giving them
labels such as "The Good Girl"
and "The Groom."
The show's ham-fisted writ-
ing - complete with an obnox-
iously generic orchestral score

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 - 5A
sland'is a
nal bore
- clumsily relies on clunky
exposition and paper-thin char-
acterizations to keep the plot
moving. Characters regularly
spout dialogue that awkwardly
reiterates their motivations, and
the show's short attention span
never lets it flesh out its ensem-
ble beyond their assorted quirks
- which makes the action plod
forward at an ungraceful pace.
The occasional use of cheap
scares doesn't help much either.
While "Harper's" pulls off a
well-executed sequence here
and there - the pilot's cold open
is equal parts tension and squea-
mishness - more often than not,
it bypasses subtlety entirely. The
scares feel all too obvious, show-
'Gilligan's
island' it is not.
ing dismemberment, corpses
and other gore without bother-
ing for the setup. While they
might cause an easy startle or
two, it's nothing that hasn'tbeen
done better before.
Still, even with these vari-
ous faults, the show's overarch-
ing story manages to make up
for some of its larger problems.
"Harper's" manages to hit the
basic beats that make the genre
so appealing, doling out enough
clues and red herrings to keep
the show's central mystery com-
pelling. Even if its ensemble is, at
this point, more caricature than
characters, the show works well
enough within the larger con-
text of the story to keep things
intriguing.
As a whole, though, that
underscores the basic problem
behind "Harper's." From top to
bottom, it's a conventional show
with a conventional cast on a
conventional network. Within
this framework, it competently
does what's expected of it. But
without much else going for it,
the show's mystery can't help
but feel like playing a game of
Clue: The problem might be
different, but all the pieces still
look the same.

Huisker Dii's Mould carries on with 'Life'

By MIKE KUNTZ ment store. Just don't expect those
DailyArts Writer D-faithful to be jumping on board
with this album.
Bob Mould has built his career Mould has had much to draw
on confessional from in his 30-year solo career,
songwriting- His and it's no surprise that he takes a
distortion-washed moment in Life and Times to sit and
production and Bob Mould reflect. Now pushing 50, Mould
bitter lyrics - seems to be revisiting themes from
most notably as Lifeand Times, earlier in his life. His beginnings as
a member of leg- Anti- a closeted homosexual in the early
endary punk band 1980s Minneapolis underground
Husker DO - have scene provide plenty of material for
inspired countless alt-rockers. dour songwriting.
Life and Times, Mould's newest The album-opening title track
release following last year's inspired begins with an ominously low-tuned
<em>District Line</em>, has the alt- guitar - a steely acoustic-electric
rock pioneer exploring safer terri- that is prominent in nearly every
tory in adult alternative pop, a genre song. The opening riff would fit on
traditionally ascribed to bands like any Staind or Tool record. The cho-
Gin Blossoms or Counting Crows. rus ditches post-grunge for Mould's
Fortunately, Mould gives the genre brand of moody power-pop, and
his own moody spin, burying the the result is a formidable kickoff to
vocals and adding his trademark an album that continuously moves
layers of distortion to the songs. between both aesthetics.
His melodies also carry just enough "The Breach" comes next, with a
sugar to potentially bring his music swift and sweeping guitar accompa-
to the speakers of your local depart- nying Mould's melancholy vocals in

this sol
The lat
Lights (
It kicks
emulate
focusing
nights i
Moul
turbuler
In his s
torture,
sion thi
Ri
the
"Bad Bl:
thesizer
lyrics do
bre mor
at intim
of inorg
sheen c

id mid-tempo gloom-rocker. ates an artificiality that belies his
e-night swooning of "City personal storytelling.
Day Go By)" is even sweeter. "I'm Sorry Baby, But You Can't
the tempo up a notch as if to Stand in My Light Anymore" is a
Mould's happiest moments, slower pop ballad truly worthy of the
g on the beauty of urban Adam Duritz treatment; the slowly
nstead of his own problems. ascending chorus and jangly guitars
d's lyrics focus mainly on the sound like everything the Counting
nt relationships of his past. Crows have ever released. Oddly
ongs, he tries to express the enough, it's rne of Mould's most
of separation and the confu- poignant tracks. The radio-rock
at can come with intimacy. arrangements are overblown just
enough to give his emotional deliv-
ery a surprisingly authentic feel.
As a whole, the album finds strik-
sing up from ingsimilaritieswithmany post-grun-
ge or alt-rock bands whose sounds
underground. have fallen out of favor in the past
10 years (and for good reason). Life
and Times could have been released
in 1999 and it would have fit right in
ood Better" begins with syn- with the scene. And while the albun
d strings and cringe-worthy doesn't have the same balls-to-
escribing a somewhat maca- the-wall fervor as his records with
'ning-after. Mould's attempt Husker D, Life and Times succeeds
racy is thwarted by his use in reaffirming Mould as one of the
panic sounds - the electric great songwriters to emerge from
oating each instrument cre- the American underground.

WANT To COVER
ARTS EVENTS?
Work for our Fine Arts staff.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu



I

6A- Tuesday, April 21, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

We got "YOUR" spt at one of or
"Primte lots! Catl 734-7-8eee fr
te lotiots & rates!
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Clt 734-665-825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL itmed. 00
central catmpus.s73474t-9300
!AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacioussuntfutrttsed to bedroom.
Close Ist /Nt camtps. AC, dis-
washet, lattdry. balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2415.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrst bi-leve w/
1.5 baths, frtiture & baloty. FREE
111 directs siths DVR serice & Iter-
tet itcluded w eachs apt. gate room,
ftess ro~tomatd tautch sore. 741-9300
wssw.atiarborapartitets.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!! 2 & 3
bdrtss flly fsrnisled lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HOtDirectr itts
D3VR all istclded. (734)741-9300
svsw. asttarbo rapartstetts.tet
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious retodeled apt. sits reft-
shed lardsoodfloartess kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Chusrchs St. Across frota ast Qad!!
Beautiul, spacious, qit.e Fsrnised or
untfurtised. Lasndry,
free parking, Oer eat and water, no
pets. n stokitg.
CAtLL C & I Matagement, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$ FOREST PLACE $
Redtced Rents-721 S. Forest
Great ltcationt!
[stoished eat, water & parking
incltded!
**tRE Inttternetnn
734-761-8000
prittesl.cots
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT or $411
Ott RENT n retaiting spaces at 4
Elevetn Los - 734.998.4400
4eteveslofs.catn
T etPlaa Condomiium
734-663-1530
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONL Y A FI LW AVAIBAL.
GIF T $51111OrF ALL REMANING
MAY LFt ASt ! iis special ill not
last lttg, wen teyre gtte, theyre
gne! sniversitytowers-oi.cotn
734-71-280.
**FOR SEPT. 2009 L easennn
4 tBdrtt. at at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrt.
apt avail. msss.jnsprop.cot 769-7025.
*RED)UCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
1all 09. I trtt. ree eat. Central Cat-
pus. 214 N. IThayer. Call (734) 657-
2090 or visit sww.tts-lotsing.cata
7 BD)RM FALL '09. 510 Caterine.
onsly I as. sec. depssit. 3 1/2 bats,
AC,- 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$301110 ng. pus ei. 734-99-1991.

ALL 2 BEDROOMS ON SALE
GETITHE LOWESTIPRICES NOW!
2 BEDROODMAS LOW AS $1235.00
RNTcsEFREYOU sAcsVc IsuPRnL
WE MAY NOTBE NEWBUT WE KNOW WHAT IT
TAKES TO MAKE DUR RESIDENTS HAPPY!
cWe ttfemanyametiesthatnotherscant sschas:
FREWireless Iteen, F[EE Food Eery week,
FREE Faesand Coes, Workt rcomtdosorse.ol
Study Lu, TV Lune, Lau endyron
24aors attendd/Lovbv, Greas Maint ece
Fe entalFee Heat andWateraeeincls/ed.

I565South FrestuAss
Unliveresiy
wwwaniversitytoners-mo
100 STEPS FROM Michtigan Stadittm
Thtree bedrosotnhbose, two car garage,
sanrootm, fortnal ditning roomn, disht-
washterltardwood flooring, ceratnic
baths, fnll basenment w/ lautndry ansI attic
ststrage. Over $2,000 itt antttal football
parking revenste can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great far UM football fattyattd/or
EMU cotmmtnters. Call Pat 603-4101.
1001 S. FOREST
*Great Campus Locatiott!
" Large 2-bedrootms far 2- 4 people!
" (734)60-1 100
" mm.varsitymattagmetcotn
1015 W. HURON & 001 W. Madison
" Great Old West Side locations!
" Large I & 2-bedroatms!
" (734) 668-1100
" wmm.varsitymassagesnent.coss
1346 GEDIDES
" 3-bedrootm toeS3-5 people!
" Ontly one telt; 2 prkg. spaces incladed!
" (734) 668-1100
" mmw.varsitytnanagetnettt.cott
1350 GEDDES ACCROSS from
CCRB tLarge single family htostse. faao
nachlto1tlist. 734-475-2577
martbalt se catnasto et
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. tleat and ma-
ter ittcl. Prkg. avail. Coittdry access.
Located on N. State, LCthterine astd W.
Liberty. $975-$1 500. 734-996-1991.
CappoMateagetnentctan
3 BDRM APT. May - Ausg. Packard(r
Greenwood. $990. tPkg, wsht, dryer
inst. 734-717-2935.
3 BDRM. APTS. Fast U. $1625/tao.
Fain. beat/water anct. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.011 per
manths or $499.00 per person for yon
and 7 of yossr closest friends! Thbe liv-
ing rosssm is HUGEi and features a bsilt
in bar for entertaining! Wilson Whtite
Managesnent 734-995-9200
www.wi lsonmlsiemnaageeent.cssn
331 PACKARD)
" 2-bedroaom May -May!
" I1-bedroosm private entrance ansd porchs!
"*(734) 668-1100
" mm.varsitystastagesnent.cosn

I~AI
Wlson1White
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST G.
Non edcd rates aailal
May and all 2000aaalahilty
ltn ths ad tnleast stning and on
wll wivenanth applicatin tnt and tedcn
searity dpsttotne an at'srnt
r 6116Church Sret
734-995-9200
rwww.wilnowhitemanagemen.cm t
Rams, stdis, and I- tn 8-bdtoom
huss and apartments.
Grat Cental Caps locatinns!
CALL TODAY!
331 CATHERINE
" -bedroom hosse for 6- 8 people!
" Kerrytomi! - need e say mtore?!!
" Or separate 3-bdrsn apts: well accm-
moadate yos!
" (734) 668-1100
" mm.varsitymassagsnt.cosn
4 BDRM APT. avail, fall 09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2200 +
ete. 321 S. Divisios. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappasanagesnt.casn
4-5 BDRM House. Near atletic eas-
pie. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwood floors, jacssezi. $2100/tos.
Avail 09/01/09. btssl333 a aol.cosn
401 EAST MADISON - I bedroomss
available May fr $625-845 per sont.
Close to te Bssiness and Law
Schools as well as te Miigast Union.
Sosne otfer hardwood flors and sose
inclsde parking. Wilsssn White Manage-
met 734-995-9200
mm.wilsanwhitemnanagement.cose
410 E. WASHINGTON
" Grad Stsdents Galore!
" Matre, quiet stdy environmset!
" (734) 668-tOO0
" wsv.varsitymassagesnent.coss
515 & 521 Walnt
" CCRB & CC Little bss stop so close!
" I & 2 bdrmssof all sapes and sies!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitynanagelent.comn
1FBRM.& EFEAPT
I$50-$651
SEPT 2009
COIPROPERTIES
73-6356J
526 PACKARD!
" Jst off West Quad!
" Hucge Balconies, Ilge 2-brns over-
lookissg Packard!
" (734) 668-1 100
" mm.varstysnanagemest.casn
611 CHURCH - Need to get a roos?
$800 a montb faly fsrnised inclding
eat, ater, and electric. Wilson
White Managesent 734-995-920
mm.i lso nmlitesanagemencosn
7 BDRM FALL 09. 1129 Wite St. 3
bath, 2 kiteens, 6 prkg. spaces, ottly I
ste. sec. deposi. By Packard and Are.
$3000 neg. pustsutil. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedssom/2 Ball-
romtBti-tevel apartmnt one blck
frosmte Bsiness and Lasw scols.
Fully furnised nit offers spacioss
bedroons, a newer kitcen wih dis-
washer and A/C. Sose originaul wood
mrk, plessy of windows for natra
sunlight, and a frnt prch! Available
May -19 to Aagust 19 at
$1 200/msnths and Septesber 19 to As-
gust 10 at $2995/ sonh; otler leases
nay also be considered.
For snre details contact Wilson Wite
Management at 734-995-9200
wmw.wilsossmlitessassagessssst.cssss
848 TAPPAN
" ON Central Campus ear B Scool!
" tHuge 2-bedrooms, coy -bedroom!
" (734) 668-1100
" mmw.varsitymsasagenetscon

904 S. FOREST at I1lilt, apt. 6 2. Avail
May 09 or Sept. '09-'11,4 bdrss.csrn-
pletely sspdated. 734-475-2577
snartbalt st csmcast.ntt~
917 PACKARD
" Bssiness & t,am Secsool so close!
" Every apt. hs a patio or balcony!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitysnanagesnent.ces
AVAIL IMMED)IATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or ssnfurnishted.
Casll today 741-9657.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when yass sign a stew lease by
April 30ths. That's a $3111 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
capposnagesssest.cosn-for a list of
available properties.

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Ysesr attentsionssplese!
Casnpsus Management, Inc. invites yost
tsr visit svme.CasspssMg.csmth ie est
local eebsite fr Ihe best selectisonsof
apsartetssan sd lassses. We specalie
its hssssses asnd aparessments very csse tso
central camspus. 1Lot of 2 besrosoms
aps. and smasller avilable too! All are
attractively priced, vst iclsde pek-
ing.sany are furnished asd sse in-
clutde sutilities. Ile russhsis setsadsem
are actively shtowisghoussig to hn-
deds of peoplelacds wek. Cssact iss
by phsose to schedsule a pesanal ssow-
log ittsosur resstal agent. Ask fr tat.
663-4111.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedrom ouse for
rent, everythsingelastsbeen remvodeled a
comaplese rehab. :3 Ifulbahroomsnwit
slate tile in ech. IHardswsod Catrs
thsosghseats te leasse. ea kithen ills
stainless steal appliassce's. Was-
er&tDryer inclsded. New fsrtaceAk.
and a workinsgfire place. 'Ions f park-
ing. $4,000 a snonthsCosntact tae ifyour
interested and or sould like to see
somse picteres 734368-76.
leonathsonss levis se shglebalset
AVAILABLE FALL.,
Beautiful I bdrs. apt. IHadwoossd
flars, bay wisdow,ees kitens. 2
blacks t camputres. 74944-2405.
AVAILABLE MAY LOCATION!
Corner sf Southl IFsresssand SuthlsU.
Roomass-eff. 1/2 hsless. 734-996-2836.
2-bedroom apartments
Foil and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-61-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
CASHIERS WANTED PART-TIME
ights and weekends. Apply its persoss
afther 6 pss at Qickie Bssrger as 00 S.
Slate St. 734-222-4555.
CENTRAL CAMPUS FURNISHEDE
loomsss foe stusdessts, saed kich., Idry.,
bash., interese. Rent foe Smmsse $301,
tall $440. Call 734-276-0886.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
thsans the Dormss!
Rent our 2 bedroomusns aeasBig!
Our 2 bedroomtsfr 12 montss
=$14,820
Dosns 2 bedroomes foe 8 morntss
m$16,656
See wvha e ment...
Call tstBestsf te Bes!
!ALL 2 BlDOO(MS (N SALE1!
GETTHiBLOI(WST PRICE'S NOSW.
RENT 141EORE YOUl GOIHOM.
**ENDS APRI~L 30,2009
7i4.76 1-26801
EFFICIENCY AND) I helessasps.
avail. all 39. Prices rasge $67-$925.
Most incl., heat andwaerleausd hsase
prkg. avail. for $25isse. 734996-1991
Visit CappseMassagessessl.esss
FALL RENTALS: 1 bdess-700, 2
bdnns-1100. ea, nosmosskintg/pts.
512 E. Kingsley. 734455-147.
FIVE BEDROOM HIOUSE loeted
ear Gesdses and Sesesla IUnivesiy. C'ans
acc-mmssodate six. C'enstast Michigans
Realy us 74-662-5500) or
mmw.sniclscsesealsy.cusss 11(.
FURNISEHED ROOMS FOR reets-
all stil. isscl. tree phoese.cable sandl higa
speed itenet call Alass 734-649-7015.
ROOM FOR RIENT its sice, clean
consdo. IFemsasles tonly, ssosn-smsokisg.
$350/mornths Sep-Sept isscl. tIl. IFree
prkg asn Isdy. FIremorseee ifo/scntasct
Rachsel atlraelelvg es essihesel
A eunicte l 0
. ¢ wuO'ed and P60~
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms

Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.,930()
wsvsv~atnlt butfa,4Sattsretts.Iset
or visit ris at
1700 Geddes Ave.

3 PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots *of Ameities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spsacious i & 2

FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND iwo Bedroosm aparttments avail-
able foe May. walking distance to
Michsigan Union $595-$1145. Far
snare details contact Wilson White
Managemsent at 734-995-9200.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM sousse- fatty
furnsishsed, Ig smoderss kitcens, covered
parch & snuschssore. 741-9300.
svss.assnarboaauenss.nes
LARGE FURNISHED 3 hdrsn. apt. at
1111 5. Stale, Near tUM buss stop,
Avail. Now osr Fall 201)9, H eat & maser
incl. Bate., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1450-$1750, No ssnkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 at 734-678-7250.
elstseng e comcast.sset
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We save EfOi-
ciencies tsp to 6 bedroosms available for
May. alt reasosnable offers
considered. For snare details cull
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartmnents at
mww.ailsosssliitesnanagesnesst.som
MAY LEASES STUDIO-S bdrs
avail on central or norths camnpus.
741-9300 mmw.annarharapartsnents.nel
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdm.
lust. Heat/Water/Parkisng
www.I IILIAA.easn 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-80(0
wwprimesh~com
Call today to see yousr sew Homse!
Reduced Rates
I Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madisoss
51t F. [looser
2 Bedrooms:
909 Churchs
1021 Vaueghsn
721 S. Forest
1320 S. Usiversity
411 High
019 Brawn
uFully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
aFree heat and water
(* At moot locations)
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 ChurchlsSn.
(734) 663-8989
wvww.oldtownrealty.net
Ilouses Available for Eall 2809
All Prices Reduceed!!
8 BedroomnBousse
428 Hiamsilton Pt. $4,40
7 Bedroomn eoses
406 L. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Cathserine $3,850

ww~sstevessageeten
Varsity
Management
Nosiness sod Lew Studhfts
VMOW lhas:
Great Locatios!s
Great Prles!
Greallpalrlmenlsl
Call todayfora personal tea,
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residesstial seighsbor-
sand in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balcossies, central AC, lausndry.
teat and water inclusded. 'lake our pie-
torial taste at
ww.stnartfloarpas.coss/mi/v280580
or visit our mebsite at
www.ssieleosnreaty.ssss Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5508. EHIO.
WWW.800FULLERCOM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrmn., modern, clean, qusiet
w in, walk, MED, OLNT, and Campus
O & 2 Bdrm. furss. apts. 482 Bill St. &
1313 5. State. Sept. 09. Ldry.. A/C,
teak, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
TWO 7 BDRM. housses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSt at mww.psnsiproperties.eom
NORTH CAMPUS
Don't Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet, beautiful location!
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime
spot. Heat assd water inst. 91799/ mu.
734-665-8825. mww.eaupsrealty.som
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedroomns; 19 locations to choose
fromn. (734) 741-9300
ww.nsarborapatssens.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrnm 2-3 ppl. heat/120/direct tv inel.
fatly Gent. $350/persons or best otter
Righst near buss stop. 513-315-6273.
estesb(&,/umichedu

I

id

4

4

HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week-iao order visit
lome.eosscast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleassee. 995-0092.
THESIS EDITING1- LANGUAGE,
organizations, formnat. 25 yes. U-M exp.
996-0566 or meiteon(a iseen~net
WRITE YOUR LIFE STORY!
A creative writisng workshsop with Gait
Balden ass May 30, 9 a.rn.-3 p.m.,
Ann Arboer Friends Meetinghouse
1420 Bitt Streeu, Anss Arbor
ww.creativejourneys.net
503-368-78017

4


RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, April 21. 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Theatrical 48 Cul-de-^ 55 Chil-nducing
1Shopping cennter tranelets 41 One of the Bu. 57 Salvage ship
5 Letter-ruuting 8 Cntrosine numbers equipmnnt
tenetrs compound 42 Nut at home 58 A hit, informally
9 Confronts 8 Wndshield glate 43 One af a 59 Fencing smntds
14 A lnng mug aft reducer teporttr's five W's 81 Bunerfingers' utp
18 Firensen farewell 7 Dash denices 48 Comty footwear e2 Abound (mith)
se Signs nftdecay 8 Useless 49 Spellbound 83 Memoabale Did
17 "The Flintnes" 9 Precedes 51 Becord West unwman
pet 10 Mideast punt on collecto's n4 NASCAR
18 Ruet division itason gull plantets advertiset
55 Find a new .1 Caune ontcnughs 52 Semvena sentence 85 As istructouns
tenant Ins and sniflen
20 Nearby, on a 52 Befnre, of yate ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
cuntysroad 13Old fast plane:
23 When primetime Ahbbr. S LAB O PA LE AP OR T
esds inMiddle 21 Abbe forpeople L A MA A I D C R A D 1 0
Ames. withuonl two O MEN KN OC K KN OC K
24 Counterfeit coin names T A RA TA S TY C RE E
25 Sonnnma Vallep 22 Priklygcane N O E L L A
container 28 Islam's Gd gR0cC RBRE
28 Irish homeland 27 In a Inst mood
31tMug shoteview 28OSntch 0 I L S E A L OCEDE
32 Electrical unit, 30 Moose reative 0 8 I D S P I L T S L I M
hrieflp 32aWeb site help R E T IE RE t1 A G O
36 Maltybrew nest. T ES T I N G TE ST I NG
38 Counfnsses' 33ySecondntrsixt6 PESO 0 S5P A
npuses president SAS E LE A CH I CE D
39Sscnmpletely 340Gourmet E XTBR A EX TBR A' L OG
uninstormed .mushroom GLA P IR C OVER
44 Impressive 355 'Catch a Falling
grouping Star"singer TE N ET TACK R EN T
45 'What an idiot I 37 Call a half to xwordleditoraolu.com na/21/09
48 Inclined to avoid
the spntlight sa 1t 1t
47 "Heavens!" 171a1
50 Snitched
53 Sneaky 2 1a
54 Super-auper
58 Deputized grnup 23z n 82
60 Bun house patch
84 Frighten, as at tt 30 01 3
horses 333 35 3 37 8
en Field of expertise
87 Mews phrase t9 a0 as 4a at
6s Arizona State's
e9 Ducking site a7a as o 5112
70 Chess ending
71 Nnnpoet is writing 53 5a t5s u56 te7sa5so
72 Otfice fil-in
72 Prominent m s 6t t3
periods * tu
DOWN se 69 no
1 Angry with
S Talked a blue
strak By ai abow~sissssu', 04/21/H9

6 Bedroost louse
952 (reenmood $3,600 I
(May or Eall Lease) hlp4Beroml-oue
1116 Packard $2,308 9
942 Woodlawvns$2,860
624 Church $2,995
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
Ofeeing a $5110.00 gift card to a store tiat, Age 18+ oh. Na exp. necessary,
of yossr lsoice mills every signed tease traissing provided. 808-965-6520 x 125.
of these asailable hsouses!!
ANN ARBOR BASED comspansy,
PRIVTE BDM Lot, ownown Gold Star Financsl, is lookinsg to sire
PRIVTE -6BDM-LO,8 omn. mn individusals foe Ouse Manager Develop-
734-6627888.ment Traissing tProgranm. Work hand-in-
hansd with the 61 and #2 loassofficers
ROOM AVAILABLE" IN S hdrm, in the state. We mill be hsoldisng inter-
hsousse. $650 per mntsh. 734-665-8825. views meekly; please suhbnit resumses
to rrichesseesgldstarinaneiat.eosn
SIGN THIS MONTH,
& SAVE BIG!.!! EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
734-761-2680 needed ASAP. Earns upls$150 per day
IINIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM. being a mstsery shsopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
IMMEDIATE & FALL (Occupasscy
Great ILocations: 1328 5. kUniversity Ne-
gotsiable Ruts & Elexible iermn
Furnsishsed, Parkisng, FEEE Internset, ClIassIT e
1, 2, & 3 Bedroomss, Call Today! j d
(74-6-8000 or primess.eo o ti u d O
WE HAVE ALL your housinsg seeds
from stusdisstoe6hdrms. houeses in alt ho- the nextpae
cationss. tlease contact Michsigan Realty pag
734-662-5508 or
www.nihassseaty.sasn foe details.
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. apt. 1114
Prospect. Moderss kitchs., central A/C.
F ree ]dry. $26511+still, avail. May. 734-
665-2723. ssattiger/ hsotmait.easn

'4

4

Deadline for lirte ads is 1130am orte busirtass day prior to publicatort.
Raten: $3.75 pe inr tefirst issue and $1.70 perineaforoechaddtiontal
consecutive issue.
" Frequerncy aed Bulk conractsreeavailable- contact ourustafffcr details
" Students may receive a 20ee discoutrwhentadueare paced in personawith a
valddvtudent ID (non-organizationtal, non-businessuadvonly)
" All ads musa be prepaid uness piorbllng privileges hove Gears established
" Weeaccepa VsMastercerd, Americar Exspress,.Disoover, cash, or check
" For Clavsinied Dispayadvertising, peasecall onetofour Account Executives

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ROSS CENTER
From Page 1A
ing is being used," he said.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said the building
was designed for varsity student-
athletes so they could have a place
to study.
"From what I understand, they
are full to capacity," she said.
However, at 7:30 p.m. there were
only a dozen athletes in the com-
puter lab, study rooms remained
unoccupied and there was plenty of
open seating in the center's lobby.
Cunningham said there is no
policy that states athletes are or are
not allowed to have their own sep-
arate academic facility. She cited
other University students with pri-
vate access to buildings such as the
gymnasium in the Ross School of
Business for Business students and
some computerlabs on North Cam-
pus for Engineering students.
Cunninghamsaid these facilities
were "created to meet the needs of
the community."
However, in October 2001 the
NCAA established a rule that stat-
ed student-athletes must integrate
with the student body, and institu-
tions may not form residences halls
specifically for athletes.
Christopher Radford, National
Collegiate Athletic Association
assistant director of public and
media relations, said there are no
rules or regulations stating that
the University is violating NCAA
policy by granting student-athletes
their own private building.
"It's a University issue," Radford
said.
He added that the "NCAA
doesn't govern at that level."
In an article in The Michi-
gan Daily in January 2006, Joe
Roberson, former University
athletic director, said the Ross
Academic Center isolates student-
athletes from the rest of the stu-
dent body.
"The University went to the
Supreme Court arguing that diver-
sity was a very important compo-
nent of education in the affirmative
action case," Roberson said. "How
you can Justify isolating a group
of people who probably have more
in common than any ethnic group
- being athletes and being driven
by athletics - and claim the diver-
sity issue is being accomplished is
beyond me."
Stephen M. Ross, who donated
$5 million to help fund the con-

struction of the facility, said in the
article that the center does not sep-
arate athletes and students.
"They still go to classes together,
so I don't think it isolates them," he
said.
LSA freshman Greg Pateryn, a
Michigan hockey player, was study-
ing alone at a table in the hallway
of the second floor last Thursday.
When asked if he would be will-
ing to allow non-student-athletes
to study in the building, he said he
"personally wouldn't mind."
"But if it got out of hand it would
be a little annoying if a lot of people
would be in here," Pateryn said.
He added that the center assists
varsity athletes who sometimes
need extra academic help, and said
it's nice to have a place for athletes
to focus on work.
Another Michigan hockey play-
er, who wished to remain anony-
mous because he did not want his
name associated with the story,
said he agrees it is unfair that regu-
lar students are barred from the
building but believes the policy
makes sense.
"It's pretty big for all the ath-
letes, but if you add other students
it would be pretty clustered, and
there would not be much room to
work," he said.
Athlete Academic Advisor Ste-
ven Carson was not even aware
such a policy stating who could
enter in the building existed.
"I don't know if that's a rule or
not," he said. "If it is, it's an unspo-
ken rule."
Carson said he has seen one stu-
dent who lives across the streetcome
in and use the building about once a
week since the center was opened.
LSA sophomore Brad Schumaier,
a different student who lives across
the street, said he didn't think he
could go in the building.
"I think it would be nice if we
could use it," he said. "It would be
better than having to walk over to
the library."
Schumaier is not alone. Even club
varsity athletes get kicked out.
Engineering senior Annie Kirk-
patrick is a member of the Univer-
sity's Varsity Synchronized Skating
Club team. Kirkpatrick tried going
into the Ross Academic Center last
year because she was in the area
and needed a place to study. When
she told the reception desk she was
a club varsity athlete, they told
her she was not allowed to use the
facility because only varsity ath-
letes are allowed.
Since then, Kirkpatrick has not

gone back. She said she doesn't
understand why club varsity ath-
letes are denied access to the build-
ing, addingshe practices eight to 12
hours a week and even pays $3,200
a year in skating fees.
"It would be nice if it were
opened up to at least the club var-
sity sports," she said. "We spend a
lot of time and practice as well, and
we're actually paying for our sport
so it might be nice to actually get
some of those benefits."
Recreational Sports Director
William Canning said the size of
the Ross Academic Center makes
it impossible to accommodate the
15,000 students involved in intra-
mural sports and 1,800 involved in
club sports.
If he could, Canning said he
would love to have intramural and
club athletes use the building.
"The building, the services, the
staffing, just is not designed to do
that nor is there the budget to be
able to do that," he said.
During the 2007 fiscal year, the
University spent $251,455 on the
center's maintenance and admin-
istrative expenses. That number
increased to $287,057 during the
2008 fiscal year.
Rackham Graduate School stu-
dent Julie Lesnik, an Anthropology
graduate student instructor, tutors
soccer and football players at the
center. She said she thinks the cen-
ter is a state of the art facility that
should be available to all students
on campus and claimed money is
the reason it isn't.
"I think it reflects that a lot of
the money to the University comes
through athletics," she said. "I wish
that the academic would be more
important in that there would be
facilities available to students who
were here strictly for an academic
reason, but it's the economy. It's the
world. It kind of all revolves around
money."
Lesnik said she agrees that if
the athletes generate the center's
money, then they have the right to
their own private building.
"It's understandable, but I just
wish there were academics bring-
ing in that kind of money too," she
said.
Kirkpatrick said she sees how
it can be hard for varsity athletes
to be an athlete and a student, but
thinks they shouldn't be treated
differently.
"I guess don't see why it's any
more difficult for them to use the
same facilities as everyone else,"
she said.

WILLIAMS
From Page 1A
For year, students have flocked
to Williams' classes, delighting
in his personality as much as his
teaching style.
Before beginningtoteacheach day
Williams makes it a point to create a
welcoming environment in his class-
es by personally greeting each stu-
dent, either by handshake or wave.
"He seemed to be a celebrity,"
said Debbie Sherman, an LSA soph-
omore enrolled in two of Williams'
classes this semester, "as each stu-
dent squirmed in his seat waiting to
shake his hand."
After this routine, Williams
begins his lectures well-known for
their dramatic, moving style and
incorporation of memorized pas-
sages, often in other languages.
"What sets him apart is his
showmanship," Wetherbee said.
"He treats every lecture like a per-
formance, putting an unparalleled
amount of vigor and finesse into
every word. You'd swear he stays up
until three every night rehearsing."
English Prof. Richard Bailey said
memories of Williams often stay
with students years after they leave
BUDGET
From Page 1A
funding higher education at 2006
levels, which was the lowest year
of state funding for the University
in recent years. However, Cole-
man said the state could apply for
a waiver to allow it to fund higher
education at lower levels.
Sullivan and Coleman both
stressed that the federal stimulus
bill may also present some unique
opportunities for the University
next year.
If the University receives stimu-
lus money through the state, Sulli-
van said there are several things the
University could use the money for,
including a temporary increase in
student financial aid. However, she
stressed that the stimulus money -
which is a one-time sum - should
not be used for an ongoing expense
as that could create a structural
deficit in the University's budget.
Another major funding source
academic activities at the Univer-
sity is student tuition, which has
not been finalizedyet. When asked
how the University would handle
the increased costs next year, Sul-
livan said cost containment efforts
would help, but admitted they
probably wouldn't cover the entire
cost increase.
"We've already squeezed a lot
out of tie budget and that's why
additional cost containment is
hard, especially in the short run,"
she said.
Other revenue sources will
include indirect recovery costs for
research projects at the University,
which pays for utility costs at the
University that are associated with
research projects funded by grants,
and endowment revenue, which
typically pays for 8 percent of the
University's operating expenses.
Hanlon said current projections
show an increase in expenses of
$10.3 million, before considering
non-union staff and faculty raises
and increases to financial aid paid
REGENTS

From Page 1A
hers of the Senate Advisory Com-
mittee on University Affairs - the
leading faculty governance body on
campus - that 204 faculty members
are up for promotion this year.
The regents also voted on stu-
dent housing rates last year in May.
Though she wasn't certain, Sullivan
said she thought those rates would

Ann Arbor.
"Ralph has been the most memo-
rable teacher of his generation," he
said. "You can count on graduates
remembering him with great joy."
LSA senior Chelsea Hopkins said
Williams's genuine care for his stu-
dents shows in each of his classes.
"He really takes the time to
acknowledge students and welcome
them to his classroom," she said. "It
makes him really approachable and
creates a great atmosphere."
Sherman said that Williams's
courses have hadboth an education-
al and emotional impact on her life
since she came to the University.
"Professor Williams changed my
entire college experience," Sher-
man said. "And I will never forget
his emotional, powerful lectures
to which I looked forward each
week."
Williams's ability to engage and
affect listeners is not limited to the
students in his class. His capability
for moving an audience hasbeenused
by the University to generate support
for the humanities on campus.
English Department Chair
Sidonie Smith said Williams is "an
ambassador for the University and
for humanities education," and often
plays a crucial role in alumni giving
by the University. Hanlon said this
amount is much less than in previ-
ous years, when cost increases have
ranged from $55 to $70 million.
Past year's figures for salary
increases to non-union staff and
faculty have ranged from $15 mil-
lion to $21 million. Hanlon said it
was still unclear how muchsalaries
would be increased next year.
According to Hanlon, a 1-percent
increase for non-union staff would
costtheUniversity$2.8million.Addi-
tionally, he said a 1-percent increase
for faculty would cost the University
an additional $3.36 million.
In aninterviewyesterday, Sullivan
said she wasn't sure yet what raise,
if any, faculty and non-union staff
would receive. Sullivan said while
employee productivity makes her
want to give employees a raise, she's
not sure how it would allibe funded.
To help cope with expected cost
increases and expected declines in
state appropriations, Hanlon said
University administrators have
proposed a number of cost contain-
ment efforts for next year.
Hanlon said the University has
also put several capital projects -
including an academic building and
parking structure on North Cam-
pus, a similar project on Wall Street
andanunderground storage facility
for artifacts at the William L. Ce-
ments Library - on hold, until the
economic situation improves.
One reduction to the budget will
include eliminating centrally funded
key initiatives. Past funded key initia-
tives have included the 100 new fac-
ultyinitiative,whichwasfullyfunded
last year but is still being implement-
ed. Next year any new initiatives will
need to be funded through a real-
location of funds, requiring deans to
sacrifice current activities to finance
new activities, Hanlon said.
The University will also freeze
funds for faculty retention pro-
grams and incentives at current
levels. In past years, funds for fac-
ultyretentionand recruitmenthave
been increased by as much as $4.5
million in one year. Sullivan said
be determined in June this year.
Also in June, the regents will

consider and adopt the University's
budget for next year. The regents
will review and vote on budget pro-
posals from each of the University's
three campuses and the University
of Michigan Health System. As part
of each campus's budget, the regents
also approve the tuition rates for the
next academic year.
At the same June meeting, the
regents typically approve student

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 - 7A
to the University.
"Because of his ability to engage
deeply whoever he is talking to, they
feel that they've participated in an
important conversation," she said.
The appreciation students and
facultyhave forWilliams ismatched
byhis owngratitude attheir involve-
ment in his life.
"I'm the luckiest man that ever
was,"he said. "I'mintensely aware of
the preciousness of time and hugely
gratefulthat my students share some
of their time of with me."
After his retirement, Williams
said he hopes to spend part of each
year abroad in London and part in
Ann Arbor to pursue writing proj-
ects and continue working with the
Royal Shakespeare Company, a the-
atrical ensemble.
"They have a fiction that I have
something to teach them," he said
of the Royal Shakespeare Company.
"The fact is, every time they open
their mouths, I learn from them."
Reflecting on his long and dis-
tinguished career at the University,
Williams said he was thankful to
have inspired so many.
"If I'm thought to have done good
here, I'm glad," he said. "But it's
not the only good that can be done.
There is still much to achieve."
making this decision was very dif-
ficult since the University wants to
retain its outstanding faculty mem-
bers in an increasingly competitive
market. Hanlon echoed Sullivan's
remarks, but said the current job
market should help to reduce the
need the use these funds.
Changes to University employ-
ees' health care packages will also
be made in January to help control
costs. Instead of the approximate
20 percent paid by employees for
their health plan, they will now be
responsible for paying 30 percent.
New hires to the University will
also be confronted by a recently
announced plan to implement a
one-year waiting period on Uni-
versity contributions to new
employees' retirement funds. Sul-
livan said the change is expected
to save approximately $6 million in
the next year alone.
Hanlon said the University has
hired a consultant to explore the
possibility of outsourcing some
services at the University. Among
the possibilities, Hanlon said the
consultant is currently considering
the possibility of outsourcing tele-
phone services and student e-mail.
Additionally, Hanlon said other
cost containment efforts willinclude
the consolidation of information
technology services, restructuring
the University Press as part of the
University Library System and the
implementation of best practices for
the use of endowment funds.
Despite the measures being
implemented to control costs,
Sullivan said she doesn't expect
that cost containment efforts will
be able to make up for projected
increases in expenses.
Over the past six years, the Uni-
versity has eliminated approxi-
mately $135 million in expenses.
The savings are attributed to sev-
eral changes, including renego-
tiating purchasing procedures to
receive additional discounts and
making buildings on campus more
energy efficient to reduce utility
costs.

fee increases - including the fees
for the Michigan Student Assembly,
student legal services and student
health services.
Last year was the first year that
these items were considered and
voted on in June. Historically, the
regents did not approve the budget,
tuition rates or fee increases until
their July meeting. Sullivan said the
date moved up last year so incoming
freshmen would know what tuition
rateswouldbe earlierinthesummer.

FOR A MULTIMEDIA PIECE ON THE
BEST UNIVERSITY CLASS YOU'VE
NEVER HEARD OF,
Go to MICHIGAN DAILY.COM/VIDEO

the michigan daily
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
OCCASIONAL HORSE BARN help,
strong fix-it type pref. 995-0092. For We
ARIES
OWN A COMPUTER? Put it to (Marc
Work! Up to $1,000 to $5,000/mo Don't 
PT/FT Free Info! www.ptibusiness.com today. F
tions, b
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology things. (T
experiment on simple perceptual judg- actually
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min. TAU R
session, pays $25. To qualify, mast he (April2
18+, a native English speaker, and have You're
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #: You wae
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at have to
nkalaida@med.umich.edu agree wit
plans for,
TUTOR NEEDED ASAP for fifth CEMI
grader in our Ann Arbor home. Assist (May
with math and science. Part time, Tues- This is
day & Thursday from 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. Some se
For consideration please email note of you fuel
interest and credentials to You're w
sdodson@thdg.com pleases y
CANC
(June 2
S "me "ml~ All kir
delight y
ers make
093 of the gro
093 big ideas
LEO
(July 2
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this Be ca
Summer - Make life long friends. The bosses, p
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge It's very
Shops are looking for seasonal help in then latu
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wat gos
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous- goods. 1
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail- safe.
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304. VIRg
www.theislandhouse.com (Aug.
Travel
anything
the medi
Child Care telw
tbe law t
lion.
LIBRA
095 (Sept.
Discus
property,
CHILD CARE NEEDED for 2 year debt are
old & 2 mo. old. Mon. and Wed. after-
noons and every other Sat. Trans. req.
734-883-4705.
M ALUMS SEEKING child-care in
Ann Arbor for children age 6 & 7.
Mid-June to Aug, Mon-Thurs. Please
email halljc@trinity-health.org


:ednesday, April 22, 2009
h 21 to April 19)
go overboard spending money
Furthermore, in financial situa-
e careful not to overestimate
Things can look better than they
are today.)
1S
20 ta May 20)
Silt of grandiose, big ideas.
nt everyone to hear what you
say, and you assume they'll
th you. You're excited about big
the future!
IN[I
21 to June 20)
a relatively happy day for you.
cret thoughts and dreams keep
ed with hopes for the future.
vorking on a private agenda that
you.
ER
21 to July 22)
nds of group activities will
ou today. The company of oth-
s you feel enthusiastic and part
oup. Your enthusiasm for some
impresses everyone.
3 to Aug. 22)
reful what you promise to
arents, teachers and VIPs today.
easy to stick your neck out and
r not be able to deliver the
k a little conservative just to be
23 to Sept. 22)
plans look excititg. Similarly,
having to do with publishing,
a, higher education, medicine or
fills you with hopeful expecta-
23 to Oct. 22)
sions aboutiinheritances,shared
insurance matters, taxes and
encouraging today. Be realistic.

Don't give away the farm.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)}
In your eagerness to endorse some-
thing or go along with someone else's
plans, you mightoverlook some impor-
tant details. Be careful about this. Don't
get carried away.
SAG1TTAR IUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21I)
2t prtoise mere than you can
deliver at work today, because you're
very tempted to do so. If you think
something is too good to be true, this is
probably the case.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 toJan. 19)
Enjoy playlful times with children
today. Sporting events, vacations,
romance and love affairs plus any social,
entertaining event will be full of good
times and enthusiasm!
AQUAIRIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
This is an excellent day for family dis-
cussions. Be a bit cautious with real
estate deals. Something could look more
profitable than it actually is.
Nevertheless, there's money to be made!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Your enthusiasm for something will
sell your ideas to anybody. They say a
good product canjust sell itself.
YOU BORN TODAY People are
always aware of your presence. You're
practical and very down to earth. You're
also extremely hardworking and won-
derfully organized. Although you can
schmooze with the best of them, pri-
vately, you're a loner. You're quick to
take charge of anything, from a domestic
situation to a large organization. This
year something new and fresh will open
up for you.
Birthdate of: Yehudi Menuhin, violin-
ist/conductor; Jeffrey Dean Morgan,
actor; Ryan Stiles, actor/comedian.

r i 1gan '$ PRESENTS

2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classlfleds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



4

8A - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


5-

Seniors reflect on
unlikely NCAA run

After illustrious and inspiring
career, Abbott's No. 31 retired

From eighth place in
2006 to second this
year, seniors turned
program around
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
It was an April night in
Oklahoma.
That was in 2006, and the
Michigan men's gymnastics team
had just hit rock-bottom, finish-
ing out of the NCAA team finals
for the first time since 1998.
The Wolverines never forgot
the terrible feeling of sitting in
their chairs and staring at the
scoreboard, knowing their season
was over.
But it was that moment that
laid the foundation for Michi-
gan's return to greatness. This
season, for the first time in years,
the Wolverines set goals and met
them - to win the Big Ten Cham-
pionships and finish in the top
three at NCAA Championships.
"We would never want anyone
to feel that way, not making Super
Six, ending the season the way we
did," senior Joe Catrambone said.
"The fact that all the guys caught
on to that and really pushed them-
selves ... and made sure that each
year we stepped it up a notch, was
really impressive."
This year, the season seemed
to be going as so many others had
- a promising start and a rough
middle, culminating in a disap-
pointing fourth-place finish at the
Pacific Coast Classic and a Senior
Night loss to Illinois.
Then came the final regular-
season meet against Ohio State
meet on March 21. The Wolver-

ines pr
to a h
in Co
clicked
ing fun
Led
Thoma
and Be
as thes
gan tie
onship
"I th
that w
the exr
oursely
said. "T
kind of
St
St
Mc
really s
Any
worldn
gan's cc
by thet
NCAAi
came ii
Ten tea
For t
way to(
"It w
fun exp
this tea
said of:
we mad
had lo
excited
won, it
our abs
And

actically danced their way learn to live without their team
uge win over their rivals and without their sport.
lumbus, and something "We don't 'know what the
. They'd learned that hav- world does between 3:00 and
led to success. 6:00 (p.m.)," fifth-year senior
by star sophomores like Paul Woodward said. "We never
s Kelley, Chris Cameron have known, our entire lives....
n Baldus-Strauss, as well No matter what's going on in that
strong senior class, Michi- week or what's going on with
d for the Big Ten Champi- our lives, you know you're going
with Illinois. to the gym. You know you have
ink this was the first year three hours where nothing else
e met our expectations, matters."
pectations that we set for Gymnastics is often be an
'es," senior Kent Caldwell extremely individual sport. But in
7o actually fulfill them was college, as it is nowhere else, the
unexpected in a way, and team is paramount.
"When you come here, the
team becomes a lot more impor-
tant," senior Jamie Thompson
'Our class said. "You want to do well for the
tean. I think most people would
:arted from agree with me that you would
, probably rather see the team
quare one, succeed than any individual per-
son."
--Carthy said. And this season, the Wol-
verines saw their team dreams
become reality.
For the seniors, the success was
atisfying." especially sweet because of the
doubts the gymnastics road they'd taken to get there.
may have had about Michi- "Our class started from square
onference title were erased one," senior Ryan McCarthy said.
team's performance at the "We were a rebuilding class. ... I
Championships. Michigan think our class has really helped
n second - the only Big to turn this team around through
m on the podium. our leadership to where it's got-
he seniors, it was the best ten today."
end their careers. Now, they'll leave the team
'as, start to finish, the most they helped to build, knowing
erience I've ever had with that it has a bright future.
im," senior Scott Bregman "I'll miss walking into that
NCAA team finals. "I think gym and right away seeing that
le Stanford think that they big block M on the wall and mak-
st, because we were so ing the left turn into the locker
.... It wasn't that we had room," senior Ralph Rosso said.
was just that we had done "I think just walking in and see-
olute best." ing the block M, that's pretty spe-
now, the seniors have to cial."

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Writer
it was the third inning of the
1986 BigTen Championship against
Minnesota, and Michigan coach
Bud Middaugh knew senior pitcher
Dan Disher was running out of gas.
Middaugh decided to replace
Disher with freshman Jim Abbott.
Abbott, who was born without
a right hand, took to the mound at
Siebert Field in Minneapolis with
his glove resting on his right fore-
arm, the ball in his left hand and
cameras flashing. Abbott hoped to
break into the Wolverines' expe-
rienced pitching rotation, and he
knew the importance of the game.
In 6.2 innings of work, the Flint
native put together an extraordi-
nary performance, allowing just
three hits and striking out 10 bat-
ters.
"He just shut them down," Mid-
daugh said Friday, the day before
Michigan retired Abbott's No. 31
jersey. "No one was going to stop us
from there."
Abbott's win propelled the Wol-
verines to a Big Ten Championship
and jumpstarted an illustrious
career.
"It seemed like a turn," Abbott
said. "I was competing on the team
for a spot. ... And after that game, I
felt like, maybe there was a chance
for me to progress in the college
ranks."
Abbott helped the Wolverines
to another Big Ten Championship
in 1987 as the newly anointed staff
ace. That same year, Abbottbecame
the lone Wolverine in program his-
tory to win the prestigious Golden
Spikes Award, given to the best col-
legiate baseball player in America.
He took his success overseas to
pitch for the United States Olympic
team inthe1988Summer Olympics,
where he pitched in the champion-
ship game against Japan and led
the United States to a gold medal.
"I never looked at him having a

handicap," Middaugh said." Some
did, but I didn't. He was the first
one I wanted to sign. ... You knew
he was a heck of a competitor to
overcome everything."
Abbott quickly made his pres-
ence felt in Major League Baseball
after the California Angels selected
him with the eighth overall pick in
the 1988 amateur draft.
He finished fifth in American
League Rookie of the Year voting in
1989. Two seasons later, Abbott fin-
ishedthird fortheAmericanLeague
Cy Young Award, the award for the
league's top pitcher, after finish-
ing 18-11 with a 2.89 ERA. Over the
course of his 10-year professional
career, he compiled a 87-108 record
and a 4.25 career ERA.
Abbott found himself on the
mound again Saturday against
Michigan State. But this time, his
first pitch was ceremonial.
His number was retired in front
of a crowd of fans and former play-
ers at Ray Fisher Stadium, many of
whom donned Abbott's No. 31 in
honor of the legendary southpaw.
Abbott's jersey became just the
fifth to be retired at Michigan,
joining the company of former
Wolverine greats Ray Fisher, Moby

Benedict, Don Lund and Bill Free-
han.
"The program is over 100 years
old, and we only have five num-
bers up in the outfield," senior
tri-captain Kevin Cislo said. "So
obviously, it's a great honor. What
he brought to Michigan, what he
did after Michigan, it represents a
great showing to his importance to
this program."
In a season full of adversity,
Abbott's presence was an inspira-
tion to a team that Michigan coach
Rich Maloney has referred to as "in
a rut".
"(Abbott) battled through adver-
sity his whole life and overcame it,"
junior outfielder and pitcher Alan
Oaks said. "He's a Hall-of-Famer. If
we canbattle through our adversity
and make it to the postseason, we
know we can overcome."
For Abbott, it wasn't about the
accolades or the adversities - it was
about being able to continue thetra-
dition of baseball at Michigan.
"I just remember the fall practice
my freshman year," Abbott said.
"Being here and looking at that
Michigan jersey, I was just think-
ing, 'Wow, this is what I'd really,
really hoped for."

I

I

4

4

1

A

4

F I [J AYS
Domestic Bottles are only
Vm s. 75e sit'tc-s

WE ELL BOXE$I
(formerly Fort Knox Self Storage)
3870 Jackson Rd., Ann Arbor
(One'/ mile west of Wagner Rd.)
734-747-9060 d
nscjacksonrd@pogodaco.com st
thme $TORAGE CHES$T ..n Abr
3033 W. Liberty,
Ann Arbor
(Across from w,
Liberty Athletic Club).'
734-663-6443
734-663-644 2333 S. Mate Street, Ann Arbor
storagechest~cpogodaco.com ton -c re c (1 mile north of 1-94)
a 734-222-0277
statestreetpogodaco.com
P2anal Str e ener-Lts rRd.
(formerly StowAway Self Storage) a
ra . (formerly StowAway Self Storage) i t" iii Ns EirrnihR
2200 Airey Ct., Ann Arbor 3060 Lohr Rd., Ann Arbor
(Across the street from the Ann Arbor Ice Cube) (Across the etreet from Beet Buy)
734-669-8880 734-769-0119
nsCaireyCtpogodaCo.Com nsc_lohrrd@pogodaco.com

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tedy pi 1 09-9

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 - 9A

A 'k-
Seniors, Style, Action!,
Join us at the Alumni Center for graduation tcket pickup and our VIP After Party.- A
S y
" Are you a college student returning
home for summer break?
b . ,Take the courses you need to boost your GPA, lighten your load
in the fall or earn credits to accelerate your college studies.
W at ' I Afte Part ceebit-yl treatment Over 1,000 undergraduate and graduate courses
" Earn three credits in five weeks
Whre Th AlmiCne* Easy, one-step admission and registration
" Legu ". ". " Convenient morning, afternoon and evening schedules
When: "* Register Through the First Day of Class
*Mna *. Tusa Wednesday, No.n " Call (516) 299-2431, e-mail study@cwpost.liu.edu
or log onto www.liu.edu/cwpost/summer
A ** * 6 * I 6Attend C.W. PosiSummer Sessions.
Summer Session I " May 18 - June 19
ww-u aSummer/ft irad Session II " June 22 -July 24
Summer Session Ill " July 27 -August 21
" Your student ID is your C.W. POST CAMPUS
backstage pass for VIP' swag, LONG ISIAND
prizes, free food and more! UNVRST0
720 Northern Boulevard, Brookville, NY 11548

il


4

10A - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

academic progress as a guest student in summer
classes at Lawrence Technological University! The University
offers educational opportunities for both traditional students
and working adults, and a curriculum that emphasizes theory
and practice - a rigorous, well-rounded education that's
valued by industry leaders. Choose from traditional, hybrid
(partly onsite and partly online), and fully online courses.
Choose a convenient location near you
" Southfield * Lansing " Livonia . Traverse City a Petoskey
To have your application fee waived, visit Itu.edulapplyfree |

4

a

Summer Classes @ Baruch College

4

4

4

I

'4


Lly lidligan +. aity
GRADUATION
Tuesday, April 21,2009

AS CLASSES FINALLY COME
TO A CLOSE, FINAL EXAMS
are the only thing standing between
you outgoing seniors and the daunt-
ing challenges of the real world.
Sooner than you may want to accept,
you will be the movers and shakers
of society - the businessmen, sci-
entists, athletes, lawyers, writers,
artists, engineers and all the other
professionals who give us in the
newspaper business things to write
about. When you accept that diplo-
ma, you're not just adding another
ornate certificate to your collection.
You're taking your place in a world in
need of talented minds and different
perspectives.
This section exists to help you look
back at your time here, rediscover
the events that shaped your experi-
ence at the University and learn from
that experience as you go out and
impact the world around you. The
things you've learned here - both
in and out of the classroom - will be
invaluable resources in the journey
ahead.
You've all learned to pull all-
nighters, to dress for the chilliest of
days and to distinguish what work
you need to do for from what you're
merely encouraged to do. But beyond
these day-to-day chores, there were
times that took you beyond the rou-
tine, forcing you to examine both
your own choices and the choices of
those around you. These moments
came in many flavors, from exhila-
rating to exhausting to downright
excruciating. Or as we like to say...

(1) ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily (2) SAID ALSALAH/Daily (3)
RODRIGO GAYA/Daily (4) JED MOCH/Daily
(5) ROB MIGRIN/Daily (6) ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
(7) CLIF REEDER/Daily (8) CLIF REEDER/Daily


THE GOOD
Sometimes you just can't help but smile.
Whether it's the A you can't believe you got, the professor
who truly inspired you or the assignment that took all night
to finish but ended up being the most fun you've ever had,
academia probably put a grin on your face once or twice.
Politics finally gave us something to celebrate. The cam-
paign for and election of Barack Obama as the next presi-
dent of the United States ushered in a new era of political
activism for our generation. Along with this victory came
the passage of Proposals 1 and 2, legalizing medical mari-
juana and paving the way for new stem cell research respec-
tively.
And of course there's basketball. Head Coach John Beilein
took Michigan to the NCAA tournament for the first time in
over a decade and brought some much-needed optimism to
Michigan athletics. ' ,
Even the campus itself thrived. The new Ross School of
Business opened for, well, business. And the newly-renovat-
ed University of Michigan Museum of Art finally opened to
the art-starved masses.
But most importantly, you've made some real friends here.
They got you through the hard times and made the good
times even better. Years from now, you can all go grab a beer
and fondly remember your time spent at the University.

THE BAD
Wouldn't college be so much better if it weren't for all
those pesky classes? While there are certainly classes that
captivate students, there are undoubtedly many more that
leave students sleeping, drooling or mindlessly doing Sudoku
at their desks. And if one of those tedious classes required
the operation and maintenance of a Quizdom remote, then
you've truly been through hell and back.
What makes the bad classes worse, though, is how much
you paid to take them. Tuition went up 34.6 percent over your
four years here. Then the economy came along and brought
even greater burdens upon many of you. And because of the
economy, you'll have a more difficult time getting a full-time
job to pay your massive loans.
The economy also took away some of our most beloved
businesses. For you loyal customers of Red Hot Lovers and
those of you who bought last-minute gifts for your family at
Steve and Barry's your freshman year, the closing of these
staple stores is a thing to be mourned.
But possibly the most glaring blemish on the last four years
was the banning of affirmative action. Glaringly misnamed
the Michigan Civil Rights Act, the passage of Proposal 2 in
2006 undermined everything that decades of civil rights
laws sought to accomplish, and it damaged the Uninversity's
ability to promote a diverse and accepting campus.

THE UGLi
Disgusting things aren't always so bad, right? Well, at
least they build character.
In your time here, you've probably seen your fair share of
vomit, whether it was out on the street, on a frat-house floor
or in the bathroom of your dorm.
And chances are at least one of those instances was caused
by the dorm food. While it could have definitely been worse,
it could have been much better. If it tasted like it was a week
old, looked like it was a week old and smelled like it was a
week old, then you still had no choice but to eat it.
The downturn of Michigan football certainly inspired its fair
share of disgust. Some call it a "transition year" and others "the
death of an era," but almost everyone calls ita disaster.
But the Michigan football team wasn't the only meltdown
in Michigan Stadium during your time here. The Universi-
ty's failure to provide wheelchair-accessible seating in the
stadium was downright embarrassing. And its moving of
commencement to a new location due to stadium renovations
was equally botched (though graduation on the Diag turned
out to be kind of cool).
But without a doubt, the ugliest, most vile and repulsive
thing to ooze its way into your college experience was the
fagade of the Shapiro Undergraduate Library. Come on - it's
in the name.


2B - Tuesday, April 21, 2009 TMi ly/g yc

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.comi

Students celebrate on the Diag after Barack Obama was elected president of the United States.
Obama's isturic win
ignites suetbd

University, Coke Split
The University temporarily sus-
pended the purchasing of Coca-Cola
products after the company missed the
deadline to elect a third-party review
of alleged human rights violations in
Asia and South America. The suspen-
sion lasted shount four months. On Apr.
to, the University decided to resume its
contract due to the company's compli-
ance with two independent investiga-
tions of its lahor practices in Colomhia
and India.
Hurricane Katrina
Hurricane Katrinabecame one of the
deadliest and most costly hurricanes in
United States history, taking 1,836 lives
and costing $89.6 billion. President
Mary Sue Coleman led the University
in relief efforts, offering financial aid
to students from the disaster areas and
allowing students from universities
affected by the hurricane to continue
their academic careers at the Univer-
sity. In addition, many campus groups RoDeito
funneled donations and helped rebuild Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans, Lou. the worst
lost homes. making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane.

Can
th
bl

Nov.
tears, s
tion th
Carolyn
realizat
a black1
Spee
knees i
student
after 11
to God,!
was ele
the Uni
Whil
ed in de
did!" at
over ch
tears.
Short
accepta
a band
phonist
player1
ing a ja
Anthem
gathere
circledt
Stud

npus celebrates the Diag from all directions, a few
waving large American Flags. A
e nation's first handful of University police moni-
tored the crowd, including one
lack president car parked on a path between the
Diag and West Hall. The crowd
By JULIE ROWE remained peaceful, yet rowdy as
Daily StaffReporter police watched.
A group of students formed a
5, 2008 - It was through drumline on the steps of the Har-
creams and complete ela- lan Hatcher Graduate Library,
at Kinesiology sophomore while hundreds of students alter-
McCloud processed the nated chants of "Go-bama!" and
ion that the nation elected "Yes we can!" to the beat.
president. After receiving text messages,
chless, she dropped to her a group of students encouraged
n the midst of hundreds of those gathered to go to the streets.
s gathered on the Diag just Studentswere askingeach other for
p.m. last night, and prayed a destination but no one seemed to
grateful thatBarack Obama know or care where the crowd was
cted the next president of heading. Some headed to Michigan
ted States. Stadium, others to the intersection
e she knelt, students erupt- of State Street and Liberty Street.
eafening chants of "Yes we One group marched to the steps
nd "Obama!" which soared of the Michigan Union, clogging
aotic cheers, screams and State Street and chanting, "It's
great to see an Obama victory." A
tly after Obama gave his portion of the crowd walked along
noe speech near midnight, toward the home of University
of percussionists, a saxo- President Mary Sue Coleman and
and aetag-a-long didgeridoo called for herto make a speech. She
headed to the Diag play- never emerged and the group soon
zz version of the National moved eastward on South Univer-
. The hundreds already sity Avenue.
d at the center of campus The crowds and celebrations,
the band. though numerous and disparate,
ents continued topour into only grew through the evening as

national results came in.
As of 4 a.m., Obama had won 338
electoral votes, well above the 270
needed to secure the presidency.
Republican nominee John McCain
clinched 163 votes.
Students cheered well into the
early morning hours, celebrating
the Democratic candidate's deci-
sive victory.
"I feel this is the greatest
moment of our lives," said LSA
sophomore Rose Balzer. "There's
no doubt about that."
While students rejoiced in the
streets singing "The Star-Spangled
Banner" and choruses of "The Vic-
tors," results trickled in from Ann
Arbor precincts, showinga 14-per-
cent increase from the number of
people who cast ballots at student
dominated polling places of 2004.
Eighty-three percent of voters at
14 student-heavy Ann Arbor pre-
cincts supported Obama.
Obama, whose victory in the
Electoral College entered land-
slide territory, began the race two
years ago as the underdog. He had
to defeat the favored Sen. Hillary
Clinton of New York to win the
Democratic Party's nomination. In
doing so, he defied historical prec-
edent tobecome the firstblack man
to earna major party's nod.
The Democratic nominee once
See OBAMA, Page 3B

Affirmative Action Ban q
Proposal 2, The Michigan Civil
Rights Initiative, passed, banning
affirmative action in the state. The pro-
posal prohibited all public institutions,
including the University, from consid-
ering race and gender as factors for
admissions and hiring purposes. The
University, along with Wayne State
University and Michigan State Univer-
sity, was granted a delay in the enact-
ment of the law to complete its 2007
admission cycles, which had begun
before the passing of Proposal 2.
Bo Passes Away
Devoted football coach Bo Schem-
hedhlf," 4'ho' tame to 'ebodythb
essence of University athletics, passed
away at age 77 due to heart failure:
Coach Schembechler, knownas"Bo' by
his countless fans, ftiends, family ahd
colleagues, served as head coach for 21
years, beginning in 1969. In that time,
he won 13 Big Ten Titles, went to 10
Rose Bowls, and earned him the title of
the winningest head coach in Michigan
football history.

I1

Coach Bo Schembechler is carried off the field in this file
photo after a win over Washington in the 1981 Rose Bowl.

Zack Yost, a former president of
the Michigan Student Assembly and
leader of the Michigan Action Party,
resigned from the presidency a week
after a private group that he created on
Facebook.com was made public. The
group mocked MSA Rep. Tim Hull and
referenced his Asperger's syndrome, a
mild form of autism. Yost was the first
MSA president to resign since F. Scott
Kellman in 1977.
The Diag became a commencement
venue for the first time in the Univer-
sity's history after the Commencement
Advisory Committee decided that the
Big House, which traditionally holds
the event, was not a safe option to host
the spring 2008 commencement cer-
emony due to unfinished construction
on its east side. The decision to hold
the ceremony on the Diag was made by
University officials after students and
alumni protested a previous decision
to hold the ceremony at Eastern Michi-
gan University's Rynearson Stadium.

MSA Party Splits
After failing to relate to a disaffect-
ed student body, two representatives
from the Michigan Action Party decid-
ed to steer MSA in a new direction.
Engineering junior Abhishek Mahanti
and LSA junior Gibran Baydoun deter-
mined that their goals could not have
been met underthe association of their
then current party. Baydoun decided
to form the reMICHIGAN campaign.
Mahanti established the Michigan
Vision Party and led his team to vic-
tory in the 2009 MSA elections.
UMMA Reopens
The University of Michigan Muse-
um of Art reopened for the first time in
nearly three years. By the end of Satur-
day, nearly 24,000 people had attended
the opening weekend. The new Maxine
and Stuart Frankel and the Franke
Family Wing increased the museum's
gallery space and added lecture halls
andmeetingrooms.UMMAalsogained
state-of-the-art conservation and stor-
age facilities, a225-seatauditorium and
a Wi-Fi accessible caf.

Students crowd the entrance of UMMA on the night of its
grand reopening.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, A pril 21, 2009 - 3B

2008 ELECTION ISSUES
~Marijuana reform

2008 ELECTION ISSUES
Stem cell research

Michigan residents permission by a
with the Departi
now allowed to nity Health and b
gram identificati
use marijuana for The initiative,
the Michigan Co
medicinal purposes passionate Care,
organization.
By EMILY BARTON "We're very
Daily News Editor this is a solid
patients and the
November 4, 2008 - Michigan desire to use mE
became the thirteenth state to when other tr
legally allow the use of marijuana working for th
for medicinal purposes yesterday Byrum, spokesv
after Proposal 1 passed with 63 coalition.
percent of the vote in the 91 per- Opponents o
cent of precincts that reported by including Gov.
early this morning. nholm and At
The ballot initiative allows Mike Cox, said
atients with severe medical con- guage doesn't
ditions like cancer, HIV/AIDS, how patients wo
glaucoma and hepatitis C to legal- juana and voice
ly use marijuana to treat pain and change in the k
other symptoms. Patients would an increase in
be able to own 12 marijuana plants lence.
and 2.5 ounces of usable mari- The opposing
juana once they've been granted led by Citizens P
OBAMA
From Page 2B
again defied political paradigm in his campaign
strategy.He energized an entire generation ofyoung
Americans with his message of hope and change.
Obama's platform, which centers on tax breaks
for middle-income families, health care policy
eforms, withdrawal from Iraq and developing
alternative energy technology, has resonated over-
whelmingly with young voters.
Many young people not only voted for him, but
dedicated themselves to getting him elected.
Membership in the University's chapter of Col-
lege Democrats quadrupled in size when the school
ear began. At the group's first mass meeting, they
turned away more than 100 people because they
couldn't fit the 300 people who wanted to help elect
Obama in one room.
In his acceptance speech, Obama thanked them
for their efforts.
"(My campaign) grew strength from the young
people who rejected the myth of their generation's
apathy who left their homes and their families for
jobs that offered little pay and less sleep," he said of
those who worked in support of his ideals.
On a campus scattered with Obama campaign
literature and plastered with the president-elect's
likeness, students celebrated throughout the streets
of Ann Arbor in droves. Their chants and yells could
be heard for hours after the major news networks
called the race for Obama.
Before flooding the streets, students gathered at
campus bars and residence hall lounges to watch
esults trickle in.
Hours before television and Internet news
outlets declared Obama the winner, College
Democrats members were already celebrating an
expected victory.
As CNN projected Ohio would go to Obama just

doctor, registered
ment of Commu-
been issued a pro-
on card.
was proposed by
oalition for Com-
a Ferndale-based
excited because
victory for the
eir families who
edical marijuana
eatments aren't
iem," said Diane
woman for the
f the initiative,
Jennifer Gra-
torney General
the ballot lan-
clearly stipulate
uld obtain mari-
d concern that a
aw would cause
crime and vio-
campaign was
Protecting Michi-

gan's Kids, a coalition of anti-drug
organizations.
The passing of a similar propos-
al in California led to the creation
of thousands of "pot shops," qua-
si-legal stores selling marijuana to
people with prescriptions. Propo-
nents of Proposal 1 have insisted
that Michigan's law will guard
against those problems. The bal-
lot language provides penalties
for anyone who illegally sells
marijuana but doesn't explain
how patients should obtain it.
"The ballot initiative is silent
on how you get the first seed,
because the reality is that patients
are getting that today and using
it," Byrum said.
LSA junior Chris Chiles, chair
of Students for Sensible Drug Pol-
icy, said he thinks Proposal 1 is a
step in the right direction.
"I think it's great that patients
will be able to use medicine their
doctor recommends without
fearing arrest or jail," he said. "I
think it's fantastic."

Mi
law
th

chigan stem cell Creek) and Richard Whitmer, a for-
mer chief executive officer of Blue
s eased, allowing Cross Blue Shield formed a com-
mittee to push for a ballot initiative.
le 'U' to expand Previous legislation introduced to
it rstate Congress failed to pass, and
its research the committee members decided to
leave the decision up to voters.
By EMILY BARTON The campaign collected 570,016
Daily News Editor signatures before July 7, the dead-
line for a proposed amendment to

I

cial stance on the proposal. But that
hasn't stopped itfrom hosting a series
of "educational" events on the issue.
Many University researchers and
administrators personally endorsed
Proposal2, including Sean Morrison,
director of the University's Center
for Stem Cell Biology, and University
President Mary Sue Coleman.
Students at the polls yesterday gen-
erally supported the ballot initiative.
"Stem cell research is really
important for medical advances,"
said LSA junior Lorna Song. "It's in
everyone's interest."
- Thomas Chan contributed
to this report.

November 4, 2008 - After the
passage yesterday of Proposal 2,
which amended the state's con-
stitution to loosen restrictions on
embryonic stem cell research, Uni-
versity researchers will now be able
to derive their own embryonic stem
cell lines.
The ballot initiative passed nar-
rowly with 52 percent of the vote,
with 91 percent of the precincts
reporting as of 2:30 a.m. Wednes-
day. It overturns a 1978 Michigan
law banning the destruction of
human embryos. Michigan's ban on
cloning remains intact.
Scientists at the University have
been conductingembryonic stem cell
research with lines derived in other
states, but the new amendment will
allow them to start deriving lines
from fertility clinic embryos that
would otherwise be discarded.
Opponents of the initiative have
cited precedent from other states to
argue that the new law could lead
lawmakers to spend public money on
stem cell research, and argued that
the ballot language is vague enough
that it would not adequately prohibit
the misuse of human embryos.
Proponents of the measure say
the initiative will enable research in
Michigan that could lead to cures for
diseases like Juvenile Diabetes and
Parkinson's Disease.
"We're very pleased with the
vote today," said Chris DeWitt,
spokesman for Cure Michigan, the
campaign advocating the ballot ini-
tiative. "This has helped bring our
state in line with 45 other states for
stem cell research."
Cure Michigan started its cam-
paign initiative over a year ago when
Rick Johnson, former speaker of
the state House of Representatives,
Detroit Attorney Linda Bloch, for-
mer U.S. Rep. Joe Schwarz (R-Battle

make it on the ballot. That same day,
Michigan Citizens Against Unre-
stricted Science and Experimenta-
tion released a statement against the
ballot initiative.
Because the University is a state
institution, it cannot take an offi-

SZECHUAN, HUNAN & PEKING CUISINE
Chef Jan
2008 Culinary 01ympic
Gold Medal Winner
October 19th, 2008 Germany
More than 1500 chefs from 53 countries competed
Top Gold Medal
-.,AwardWlner
2006, 2003, 2001 1999, 1990, 1997, 1900,1991
International Professional Culinary Competition
(The World's Largest Culinary Competition)
VOTED #1 CHINESE
RESTAURANT BY THE
MICHIGAN DA4Y
1996 to 2004
Compe$ition is essential for keeping up the quality in cooking
Dine- ( ) or Ta2e5out * Reservations wet U

after 9 p.m., the group of 50 people cheered raucously.
"Ohio kind of seals the deal," said Danny Abo-
sch, a School of Music, Theatre and Dance sopho-
more and a member of the group's executive board.
"Looking at the 2000 and 2004 elections, Ohio has
really been the key state. It's really amazing."
Just before 11 p.m., the election-watching crowds
at Good Time Charley's braced themselves for the
closing of polls in California. They began counting
down from ten. As they cried one, the television
screens displayed the CNN projection, "Barack
Obama elected president."
As students embraced and took photos of the
screen, they lined up at the bar to order blue-colored
"Obama shots." Others simply stared at the screen,
their eyes transfixed and welling with tears.
- Daily Staff Reporters Jillian Berman, Kelly
Fraser, Charles Gregg-Geist, Andrew Grossman,
Elaine LaFay, Katherine Mitchell, Nate Sandals, Caitlin
Schneider, Kyle Swanson and Sara Lynne Thelen and
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Check out the BTB Cantina
Cinco de Mayo Facebook
Event for details.
CINco p; MAYO


4

4B - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

fJ i*idigan &iIt*j
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
The Daily's Editorial Page is a forum for diverse opinions on key issues of
contemporary concern. In honor of the class of 2009, this page represents
a compilation of insights surrounding the most compelling events that
occurred over the past four years.
Raising it through the roof
Latest tuition increase of questionable necessity

r 14

High rises are destroying the
image of Ann Arbarl This is
Tree Towa, not Skyscraper
Town!

So what's your solutone
to provide affordable
student housing?
hu...wels

III

Yeah e's what I thought
Someone has a solution
that makes economic and
environmental sense
and you worry about bannng
p~- bap ...

Le ssons to live b

t's that time of year again when stu-
dents receive their annual gift from the
Board of Regents - atuition hike. It's an
unfortunate reality that tuition may need to
be raised over time, but the rate of increase
at the University may be unjustified. And the
way in which this hike was approved didn't
allow questions to be raised.
The hike was based on an assumed 2
percent increase in state funding. But at
the time, the increase being debated in the
state's legislature was closer to 3 percent.
Next year, in-state students will be paying
5.6 percent more than last year. And over
the last four years, tuition has increased a
whopping 34.6 percent.
The costs used to justify the raise are
questionable. According to the University,
the need for higher tuition is derived from
expense increases like rising energy pric-
es, improving faculty pay, hiring faculty
members and updating technology. But it's

debatable whether things like hiring fac-
ulty at the expense of students should be a
priority.
For Michigan, a knowledge-based econ-
omy is essential to addressing the state's
economic woes. This means it's necessary
to prioritize expenses and trim spending
before raising tuition. The most important
priority should always be the student.
But it's not just the big price tag on a Uni-
versity education that's alarming - the
way it was approved is upsetting as well.
The hike was passed at the Regents meet-
ing two weeks ago without any discussion.
That's unacceptable considering the effect
this decision will have on students. Instead
of working behind closed doors and leaving
students in the dark, the University needs
to answer students' questions, say why the
increase was necessary and explain how
to avoid increases in the future.
- June 30, 2008

enioritis can display a number
of symptoms - most commonly
assignment-inducedeyerolling,
excessive alcohol
consumption and
chronic truancy. In
my case, it has also
caused frequent ;
bouts of nostalgia
and reflection.
The University
has been the site
of my most pro- EMMARIE
found development
as a student and a HUETTEMAN
person. And since
this is a community that thrives on
the contributions of its members, it
would be selfish for me not to give
something back. Here are a few phi-
losophies I've picked up during my
college years that apply not just with-
in these ivory towers, but out in the
real world as well.
Lesson #1: Sometimes a B is more
satisfying than an A.
On the first day of law class, my
professor looked out at the dozens of
eager faces and asked who among us
was planning to attend law school.
Hands shot up, leaving just me and a
few others shifting uncomfortably in
our seats. As the professor passed out
the syllabus, he noted casually that
students often drop the course after
the first exam.
Many didn't wait that long. By the
end of the second week, the other non-
law students were gone, along with
several of the law-school bound.
To call the course difficult would
be an understatement. I spent most
of the classes just trying to figure out
what the professor was saying, never-
mind contributing my own thoughts.
My notebook had more question
marks in it than words. I laughed
when my GSI made jokes about U.S.
Supreme Court justices, but I had no
idea what was so funny.
It took until nearly the end of
the semester but something finally

clicked. Ididn'thave to keep Wikipedia
open in class to look up terms. I spoke
up occasionally. And I even laughed
knowingly a couple times at Associate
Justice Antonin Scalia's expense.
That semester, I got a couple of As,
but the grade I phoned home about
was the B I earned in that law class.
There is nothing quite as satisfying
as knowing you accomplished some-
thing you once thought too difficult
to try.
Lesson #2:It's not studying abroad
ifyou regularly eat at McDonald's.
University students go abroad for
many reasons. Some love to travel,
some want to hone their foreign lan-
guage skills, some crave adventure,
and some just get sick of Michigan.
But no matter why you want to
go, be sure to truly live the experi-
ence. Learn about the location and
its history before you arrive, sample
the local food, ask questions, wander
around without a guide or even get
lost on purpose to see where you end
up and talk to people.
And before you go to bed each night,
write in a journal. You'll find that
even the most insignificant details
can yield the best musings later. Plus,
everyone will ask you how your trip
went, and if you've been away for a
longtime (and are jet-lagged enough),
you may have trouble remembering
anything more than the flight home.
Lesson #3:Sometimes roommates just
suck. Choose to find the situation funny.
I've had a roommate who would
be sitting in my room watching TV
when I came home, even though
she had her own room and TV. I've
had a roommate who smashed my
car's turn signal and then repaired
only half the damage, arguing that I
had broken the rest. Even one of my
favorite roommates left used insulin
needles scattered on the floor.
It's rare to find someone who per-
fectly complements your living hab-
its. There's bound to be at least one
thing, big or small, that bothers you

- and there will be at least one thing
that bothers your roommate about
you, too.
There are three rules to create a
successful living situation: Be honest
about your flaws, be frank with your
roommate(s) about your concerns
and be reasonable if they voice con-
cerns about you.
If all else fails, fantasize about sell-
ing their belongings on eBay. Laugh
about it (but don't actually do it), and
then find someone better next year.
Lesson #4: There is no perfect major.
Look beyond your concentration
requirements for courses that peak
your interest. Political science majors
interested in environmental issues
may be surprised to find themselves
What I've learned
wasn't all from
classes and profs.
enjoying a geology course. Biology
students may be inspired to start an
academic blog after taking a course
from the Sweetland Writing Center.
And if the course offerings still
leave something to be desired, talk
to your professors and advisers about
volunteer and employment options.
Network with other students or do
your own research in an independent
study. Don't just complain that your
major isn't what you want - make it
what you want.
The University has a lot to offer
its students, from a broad range of
courses to knowledgeable professors
to enthusiastic student groups. But
all it can do is make these opportuni
ties available - it's up to you to take
advantage of them.
- Emmarie Huetteman can be
reached at huetteme@umich.edu.

Settling for less
Stadium deal a minor victory in long line of failures

Better late than never - that's about
the best that can be said about the
University's settlement with the
Michigan Paralyzed Veterans of America.
While it's encouraging that the University
is finally agreeing to necessary accommo-
dations, this settlement hardly negates the
11 months of unconscionable resistance to
making the stadium wheelchair accessible.
In April 2007, the Michigan Paralyzed
Veterans of America sued the Univer-
sity for failing to meet the requirements
of the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990. While the University didn't admit
any wrongdoing, it agreed to a settlement
requiring 329 wheelchair-accessible seats
in Michigan Stadium by 2010 and improved
accessibility to bathrooms, concession
stands and ticket offices.
Instead of admitting to its thoughtless
and illegal practices, the University tried to
protect its reputation as inclusive. First the
University tried arguing that the construc-
tion plans were "repairs" instead of "reno-

vations." Then it tried a pathetic plan to
add 14 wheelchair-accessible seats in hopes
of appeasing its critics. Thankfully, no one
was convinced.
This prolonged negative attention could
have been easily avoided. If the administra-
tion had lived up to its commitment to an
open dialogue on Big House construction,
this problem might have been considered
and dealt with in the beginning stages.
And it's embarrassing to hear some on
campus blame the Michigan Paralyzed Vet-
erans of America for causing the Big House
to lose its spot atop the utterly meaningless
list of the country's largest stadiums. Fans
who care about this should not direct their
contempt on football Saturdays to their fel-
low fans in the wheelchair section. Instead,
they should look up - above the crowd
and above the press box - to the seats for
the University's leaders who thought the
Michigan Athletic Department was above
the law.
- Mar. 12, 2008

Life, death and lists

A 21st century Michigan
Stem cell research will help state's reputation

For the third election in a row, Pro-
posal 2 asked Michigan voters to
prove they are open-minded and
willing to advance their state to the pro-
gressive forefront of this country. And for
the first time, it looks like a majority of
them have accepted the invitation. Pro-
posal 2 - the ballot initiative seeking to
allow otherwise-discarded embryos to be
used for stem cell research - passed.
Getting to this point was a tough fight.
The initiative's opposition - bankrolled
by ultra-conservative organizations and
thousands of shadowy donors who may
never be identified - tried to shamelessly
lie its way to victory. Arguments that the
initiative would allow human cloning and
raise taxes were false.
It would have been easy for people to
believe these lies. But this initiative was
seen for what it was - a question about
whether we should discard the embryos
from our fertilization clinics or use them
for life-saving and economically beneficial

embryonic stem cell research.
Scientists in Michigan can now move
forward with research that holds almost
limitless potential. Embryonic stem cells
have the potential to form any other type
of cell. Using embryos that would have
been otherwise discarded, scientists can
better research cures for diseases like Par-
kinson's and Alzheimer's.
On a symbolic level, passing this initia-
tive shows how serious Michigan is about
opening itself up to new industry and the
changing world. This message never rang
true when Michigan residents were vot-
ing against progressive measures like
same-sex marriage and affirmative action.
But the passing of Proposal 2 shows that
Michigan residents are open-minded and
that they want to be a part of progressive
movements.
Any day in which reason defeats fear
and lies is a joyous one. Today is one of
those days.
- Nov. 5, 2008

There comes a time in people's
lives when they reflect on lost
opportunities, forgotten child-
hood dreams and
what truly makes
them happy.
Most die before
this happens.
Astheschoolyear
dwindles down,
however, existen-
tial crises are on the -
rise. Life choicesWILL
are being called into
question. Intended GRUNDLER
majors are falling
under intense scru-
tiny. All over campus, students are ask-
ing themselves if they actually want to
graduate with a degree in Choral Music
Education.
You might feel a little overwhelmed.
Maybe you don't even have a major in
mind. Maybe that "Undecided" T-shirt
you bought as a joke to make your par-
ents laugh is still in your closet, but
your parents aren't laughing anymore.
Your friends are, though. Only they're
not your friends - they're weird voices
inside your head.
I might be of help. The answer - like
most answers - lies in list making. List
making is a process that condenses
incredibly complex issues into simple,
manageable steps. The entire Ameri-
can way of life - the Declaration of
independence, weight loss, etc. - relies
on making lists with specific resolu-
tions in mind.
If you're worried about choosing the
wrong career and leading an existence
of utter boredom, it might be beneficial
to make a "life list" of all the amazing
goals you would like to accomplish
before you die and are forgotten about

forever. A good plan is to start with
modest goals and then increase in com-
plexity, assuming future technology
improves.
Here is a brief example of one of my
lists to getyour ideas going:
1. Buy more toothpaste (with fluo-
ride).
2. Box out weird guy with beard dur-
ing next pick-up game. He is short but
quick.
3. Grow a beard.
4. Start to read the news and hold
opinions.
5. Join the Squirrel Club.
It's always a good idea to have your
first few goals be relatively frivolous
and/or unambitious. Thus, if you don't
accomplishthemyou'll knowyou'renot
really cutout for this sort of thing. Sub-
sequent goals should start to become
more difficult.
6. Pass Calculus II at a community
college.
7. Run for president of the Squirrel
Club.
8. Print lots of little colored pieces of
paper with nothing on them and pass
them out on the Diag. See if anyone
notices the difference.
9. Abolish something.
10. Teach my friend from Ohio how
to operate indoor plumbing.*
*I recommend placing a star by any
goal that you feel is especially challeng-
ing. After ten or so goals, you have to
start predicting what your life will be
like in the future so you can continue
to be spontaneous. Odds are after ten
goals and about ten years you'll be stuck
in a boring job, so mix it up a little.
11. Sell the house, car and kids and
get aboat! Sail the world.
12. Do not sail the world near
Somalia.

13. Better just get a personalized
license plate instead.
14. Start drinking wine. Learn how
to swish it around and smell it without
looking silly.
The future is full
of possibility. And 4
maybe a big boat.
15. Run for the president ofyour kids'
schoolboard, then dismantle it because
school boards are just plain annoying.
At this point in your life list, any-
where from fifteen to thirty years may
have passed. Amazing, I know! Under
no circumstances are you required to
continue - you may find that fifteen to
twenty goals is enough. However, by
the period 2025 to 2040, impressive
technology may emerge. Feel free to
get creative.
16. Own some sort of futuristic
device that includes a phone, camera,
e-mail, calculator and girlfriend.
17. Clone it.
18. Contact extraterrestrial civiliza-
tions to see if they have any extra oil to
spare.
My list goes on, but the general idea
should be apparent by now. It's impor-
tant to remind yourself of what matters
- to think critically about your goals
before it's too late, even if you're major-
ing in Ceramics. So make your list. And
good luck.
- Apr. 15,2008
- Will Grundler can be reached at
sailgull@umich.edu.


A necessary leader
Barack Obama offers ideals, judgement America needs
CD [E

here are thousands of voters ... who realize only too well the
danger of electing a candidate who seeks to thrill with his
oratory, to bring a message of hope and cheer, without mak-
ingspecific promises or pointing to the way out of the labyrinth."
Those were the words printed in an editorial on this page on Oct.
30, 1932. A week before what was perhaps the most significant elec-
tion in our nation's history, the editors of this newspaper had yet
to make up their minds about a decision that, in retrospect, seems
laughably obvious: Franklin D. Roosevelt or Herbert Hoover?
The challenger to incumbent Hoover spoke with eager, fearless
positivity about all this nation could be. But it sounded too good
to believe. What did this one-term governor of New York really
know about managing a country in crisis? Shouldn't we instead
choose the man who has experience?
Seventy-six years later, we return to a similar question.
We're told that Barack Obama is too young, inexperienced, ide-
alistic and naive to be president. We're told he won't be able to
manage crises that will inevitably emerge and that he will make
the United States vulnerable. Some of this rings true - Obama is
young and his record is hardly distinguished. Nevertheless, he is
exactly what this nation needs today, the very thing it needed in
1932 - a leader.
Obama catapulted himself into this race with a speech in 2004,
a speech that resonated with a weary nation in a much greater
way than Obama could ever have anticipated. That happened not
only because it was a brilliant piece of oratory, but because, like
Obama's campaign, it rejected the ugliness of identity politics
that has been a key part of American life since the 1960s. In the

process, he has stripped away the stupid and bizarre definition
of "real America" that the Republican Party has exploited since
Sept. 11, 2001.
Critics argue that Obama is an empty vessel. They say he
doesn't have the fortitude to stand firm or follow through on what
he says. These may have been legitimate criticisms early on, when
Obama's campaign consisted of too much style and too little sub-
stance. But if Obama has shown anything in the course of his long
campaign, it's that he is a quick learner. His campaign has come a
long way in defining a platform that will work for this country.
Electoral pressures have dampened how outspoken Obama can
be on issues of poverty, taxes and health care. But after connect-
ing the dots he has dared to lay down in this oppressive political
climate, we can tell that Obama understands what is wrong in our 4
country and what needs tobe done to fix it.
He knows health care for every American is long overdue. He
knows the solution to our energy problems can't just come from
the ocean floor off Florida's coasts. He knows that horrifying
poverty exists in communities across this country. He knows that
terrorism can't be combated with just bombs, but must be fought
with international cooperation. He knows the war in Iraq was
misguided from the start and must be ended as soon as possible. 4
We endorse BARACK OBAMA for president of the United
States because we recognize that he shares with Roosevelt the
two greatest qualities an American president and the leader of
the free world can have - the audacity to tell the truth about
what ails America and the wisdom to find the right solutions.
- Oct. 29, 2008


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 - 5B

Finding life's lessons
on the Diag
By Dave Reap I Daily TV/New Media Editor

on't let school get in the way of your
education."
That was the advice offered
to me one fateful autumn afternoon of my
sophomore year. It came from that endear-
ing fellow who sometimes plays the har-
monica outside the UGLi. He didn't speak
these words to me - his furry beard-laden
 face was attached to the musical instru-
ment he was melodically implementing to
lift the spirits of passersby - rather, he had
scrawled his message in white paint on a
weathered piece of cardboard that sat at his
ever-tapping feet.
That piece of cardboard changed my life.
There I was, a sophomore who thought
he had it all figured out, only to spot this
guy's sign and realize that I knew nothing.
My life was blue books, mechanical pen-
cils and a GPA - there was supposed to be
more, but there wasn't. I thought to mysef
"Crap."
Here's the deal: The harmonica dude is
right. A college education by nature consists
of more than academics - in fact, the major-
ity of this education has nothing to do with
academics. So where does that leave us?
Really, a true college education is a collec-
tion of all those things you've learned that
you considered relatively useless.
The active ingredient for me in "learn-
ing" has been the people around me - it's
truly amazing what you can pick up from
others. After being inspired by one musi-
cally-minded buddy, I took guitar lessons,
and later recorded a song with this same
friend - the song was awful. A certain
Albanian acquaintance taught me how to
take a hookah hit. I was schooled in the
art of television criticism by two mensches
with whom I'd watch "How I Met Your
Mother" and "Heroes" every Monday. Upon
one friend's encouragement, I discovered
that "Sweet Caroline" is the perfect kara-
oke song. I learned to love the comic book
writer Mark Millar because of the owner of

the Vault of Midnight. One of the kids I sit
with at Michigan hockey games taught me
the "C-Ya" chant. I learned to smoke ciga-
rettes, and, shortly thereafter, learned I
didn't like cigarettes. A girl from one of my
film classes "reminded" me how to paral-
lel park. One former managing arts editor
helped me inject attitude into my televi-
sion reviews. And so on like you wouldn't
believe.
So this is what I've learned, and what I've
used to learn about myself - introspection
is a beautiful, and very collegiate, thing.
To you freshmen who might be reading
this: Expose yourself. Wait, that came out
wrong. But joking aside, look up from your
books occasionally and ask your roommate,
Getting an arts
education from the
most unlikely places.
best friend or whomever to give you the
low-down on a new album, hacky sack move
or whatever else you crazy kids are doing
these days. Don't wait for a cardboard sign,
start now.
To you soon-to-be graduates: We have
a challenge ahead of us. How the hell can
we keep up these shenanigans once we're
plopped down into the real world? (Note:
MTV should really make a show called "Real
World: Real World" - the true story of seven
unemployed recent graduates struggling to
find purpose. Damn, I still got it.) We clearly
still have some growing up to do, and thank
God for that. Keep rediscovering yourself,
no matter where you wind up next.
As for me, well, I have only this left to say:
Thanks, it's been one heckuva ride.

Batman's first day of class.
Fre.shman flight

By EVAN MCGARVEY
Daily Arts Editor
June 19, 2005 - All it takes is the first
10 minutes of "Batman Begins" - when
a shockingly grizzly
Christian Bale fights
off a dozen men in a *
rural Chinese prison e
courtyard, mud streak-
ing his face, the sky Begins
covered in steely grays Warner Brothers
and washed-out blues
- to make the audience
forget a series of corpulent, peevishly
Technicolor Joel Schumacher-helmed
Batman McMovies and submit to direc-
tor Christopher Nolan's rejuvenating,
grimy and psychological take on one of
America's most emblematic heroes.
Bale ("American Psycho"), with a
diamond-cut jaw line and perfect WASP
features, was born to play Bruce Wayne.
While his voice as Batman doesn't reach
the dark heights of Michael Keaton's
original take, Bale simply looks exactly
as we'd imagine Bruce Wayne - after all,
Bale has done idle yet deeply flawed rich
kid before.
For those of you who were denied the
singular pleasure of Batman comics by
your parents, here's an unjustly quick
primer: Gotham City is America's largest
metropolis with a beyond-seedy under-
belly. Nice, old-money, philanthropic
Wayne family goes to opera,, Momaand,
Dad are killed by a mugger. Son watches
parents die, spends formative years on a
spiritual quest in Europe and Asia com-

plete with martial arts training and gen-
eral trust-fund spending. Boy returns to
Gotham, puts on big, black rubber suit,
redirects newfound thirst for vengeance
and decides the only way to clean up his
fair city is to catch the criminals that the
corrupt city police are too lazy to catch.
Phew. 30-plus years of America's great-
est comic book in a single paragraph.
Frank Miller's gothic, exquisite
graphic novel "Batman: Year One" (on
which David S. Goyer and Nolan's admi-
rable script is loosely based) makes a fine
introduction, but many might find it an
even more compelling purchase after
seeing the film.
Nolan gets infinite credit for not sur-
rounding Bale with random ingenues
but instead leaning on a bevy of fantastic
actors.
Gary Oldman ("Harry Potter and the
Prisoner of Azkaban"), with his finest
performance in recent memory, nails
the dually idealistic and battle-hard-
ened Lieutenant Gordon. Michael Caine
("Secondhand Lions") is a stately Alfred
Pennyworth, loyal butler and eventual
co-conspirator to Bruce Wayne. Mob
boss Carmine Falcone, the thinnest part
of the villains, still manages to come to
weary, casually violent life thanks to
Tom Wilkinson ("Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind").
And lest we forget the Scarecrow.
Cillian Murphy, previously seen fight-
jogi Zombie-infested Europe (n, they
weren't bored kids studying abroad) in
"28 Days Later," not only gets the best
costume in hero-movie history, but gen-

uinely disquiets everyone he touches on
film.
With his macabre burlap-patchwork
mask and canisters of hallucinogenic
toxin lurking under the guise of psychia-
trist JonathanCrane,Murphydoesn'tjust
chew scenery - he maliciously chomps
it. If Nolan has any one major fault in
plotting, it's giving too much weight to,
a more standard, grand-destruction plot
(dutifully carried by Liam Neeson and
Ken Watanabe) and not enough screen
time to Murphy's gleefully warped men-
tal health professional/villain.
Nolan's visionary
saga begins.
Fitting for the plot's emphasis on
Gotham's disparity of wealth, the scen-
ery looks like a mash-up of Hong Kong's
skyscrapers and slums and Los Angeles's
sprawl, all topped off with a post-indus-
trial shade straight from Detroit. The
technology is reasonable, the stock bad
guys are frighteningly like the everyman
and the most gloomy character is Bale's
Batman. It's notenough that;helooks like
he should be Batman; it's clear he genu-
inely wants to become Batman.
Refreshing how after four movies
stffed with ,action-figure repetition,
Bale looks like a fan. And hey, with fans
like Bale and Nolan, how could this
movie have possibly gone wrong?

One art student's
juice-filledjourney
By Bla eGoble Eaily Arts Write'

t took me a little too long to realize how
grand it's all been.
Yes, we've all got our "Michigan-
changed-our-life" stories, but hear mine out.
I made my mistakes. I learned and I grew. I
made leaps and changes that will benefit me
for the rest of my life. I can't honestly say
I'm certain of the picture Shead (not enough
of us are), but I feel OK about it regardless of
the outcome. I know Michigan has done me
right.
I came to the University somewhat reti-
cent of an Ann Arbor education. Navy blue
shirts, hard work and the 'occasional party
would suffice. What can I say? Nepotism
left me jaded at times about the whole aca-
demia thing. I'd seen enough. I was totally
... emo. When you have three older siblings
pass through the very same university, you
assume that you understand it all and noth-
ing's going to be that different. Not true.
Maybe it took me two years too long to
realize it, but ... I'm really gonna miss this
joint. Not only does it have possibly the best
tasting Kool-Aid in the world, but the Uni-
versity really allowed me to become myself.
There's no other cult of personality I'd rather
be involved in than U of M.
About four years ago, I was Blake Goble,
the chlorine-headed, flakey, floating art stu-
dent, complacent with trying to take pictures
and getting paid for it someday. (Well, I'm
still kinda flakey.) Then two things hap-
pened: (1) The darkroom at the art school
was greatly diminished, and (2) I got the big
bounce from the photo section of this paper.
Drag. But you know the concept of doors
opening and closing? The film section of this
paper was wide-open.
It changed everything. It made me' into a
person. In two years, I went from a complete
putz to a fully fleshed out human being with

abilities and interests. I became "By Blake
Goble." I wrote countless pieces for this
paper, learning how to better articulate my
ramblings on Bay or Cassavetes. And people
have responded in kind.
I became an art student who used his pas-
sion for film-as-art to guide him through four
years of projects and thesis work. I cared about
writing, speaking out and getting out. And I
have actually been able to use my experiences
here out there in the world. The only catch? I
still can't write a proper essay for shit. Damn
Daily colloquial style. Can't we just talk?
I guess I have to reflect upon these things,
because, where else am I going to have all
these resources and opportunities again? I'm
petrified of post-grad. But optimistic, too.
One might argue I could have gotten the same
experience at Iowa or Texas or ITT Techni-
cal Institute. And maybe I could have.
Even the Kool-Aid
tastes better here.
But where the hell else can I do a Stock-
well breakfast, go get obscure movies at the
library, see us whomp ass in a football game
(a Carr game, that is), take a blue-blanketed
nap, go write 800 words on Paul Newman,
do a lecture on Batman and German opera,
eat at Pizza House, buy hype glasses from
Middle Earth, skim a book at Borders, get a
free swim in and then go buckwild from 11
p.m. till 4 a.m.?
Like I said: Michigan Kool-Aid tastes
the best. Come on, my e-mail address is
bgoblue@umich.edu people!
And I'm really gonna miss it.

The morning after a night at Rick's.
Senic
By BLAKE GOBLE
DailyArts Writer
July 20, 2008 - There's a moment
when the Joker, in a nurse's uniform,
exits a hospital just as
it blows up behind him.
It's a chaotic scene,
yet it's filmed with a
perfect narrative flow The Dark
and style, something ngh
that characterizes the W
film as a whole. Over
the top, elegant and
intriguing - it's perfect.
"The Dark Knight" is not merely great,
it's an arguable masterpiece. No, this is
not the immature ranting of a child in
Batman underwear. "Dark Knight" is a
savvy, high-minded drama that just hap-
pensto revolve around men of sensational
character. It might justbe the best film of
2008 thus far. This is dark horse awards
material, and possibly the greatest comic
book movie ever, easily improving on the
already outstanding "Batman Begins."
This is the yin to the "Superman: The
Movie" yang.
Set a year after the events of "Batman
Begins," criininals now live in fear of
what the night summons. Batman (Chris-
tian Bale, "3:10 to Yuma") is doing good.
He may also be able to hang the cape up
soon, as the new district;attorney Har-

or vigilante
vey Dent (Aaron Eckhart, "Thank You find a place here. The script is almost
for Smoking") is busting crime without poetic in its willingness to articulate
spandex. Both are men of principle in a hard ideas, courtesy of director Chriso-
disruptive world. But anarchy is com- pher Nolan and brother Jonathan's writ-
ing. The nefarious Joker (Heath Ledger, ing. English majors writing comic book
"Brokeback Mountain") is the ultimate, adaptations? It ought to happen more.
maniacal antithesis to them, looking to That's not to say this is ostentatious.
ignite chaos in the city. The expected romance and humor is
But there's more. present and strong. The music pul-
Batman/Bruce Wayne must balance sates with neoclassical gusto. Digital
his two lives, while upholding his rules. effects marry practical stunts together
Dent slowly embraces the dark within in impressive action set pieces - so do
his dawning hero. The Joker is a man yourself a favor and wait for those IMAX
with no rules, making it almost impos- seats. It's worth it.
sible to fight him without compromising
one's sense of justice.
Meanwhile, Lieutenant Gordon (Gary
Oldman, "Harry Potter and the Order Ledger's haunting
of the Phoenix") is struggling to main- anc
tain order. Noble butler Alfred (Michael perform ance
Caine, "Children of Men") must convince
master Wayne to stick with his responsi- is no joke.
bilities. Crime lords are recovering from
a recession brought on by the Joker. The
death toll rises. Violence in the street is
reaching a boiling point. Panic and mass "Knight" is a pop culture icon, and
hysteria ensue. And 200 other things Nolan has taken the opportunity to bring
(all engaging) happen before the credits. big ideas to its large audience. Not every-
This is a movie about "more." thing is answered, but that just leaves us
If that sounds a bit hectic, well, that's wanting more.
because it is. But "The Dark Knight" Seeing "The Dark Knight" is like
makes every second count. watching "The Godfather" or any other
Themes rarely considered in the comic ; great crime story for the first time. And
genre such as duality 4nd self-sacrifice there's still plenty to talk about.

t
i
ri
1
r
r

r
S
n
r

This is not Blake'Goble.


4

6B - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


changing of the guard

Bo goesout on
his own terms

I

After 13 winning
seasons at 'U',
legendary coach
Lloyd Carr retires
Nov. 27, 2007 - As the hour
approached 10 a.m., a Lexus SUV
pulled up near the Junge Cham-
pions Center. Michigan football
coach Lloyd Carr exited the vehi-
cle and walked toward the build-
ing, where hundreds of reporters
and friends of the Michigan foot-
ball program were eagerly wait-
ing..
Carr didn't come alone, though.
He brought one of the worst-kept
secrets in recent memory with
him.
Carr was about to announce
his retirement after 13 years as
Michigan's head coach and 28
years coaching in the program.
"I wanted to be able to walk
out of here knowing that to the
very last minute, I did soy job to
the best of my ability," Carr said.
"And I know I'll be able to do
that."
After thanking more than a
handful of people he worked
with at Michigan, Carr got one
specific point across before open-
ing the floor for questions from

the media.
"My timing is based on one
thing - what's best for Michi-
gan and what's best for Michigan
football," said Carr, who will stay
on as an associate athletic direc-
tor for Michigan. "There are no
other motives."
Carr spoke about the reasons
behind his decision ("It was time,
it was the right time"), advice for
a successor ("You've got to be
able to take a punch and know
that all those punches are worth
it") and what the emotions were
like at the team fmeeting Sunday
when he told his players and staff
he was leaving.
"(Sunday) was one of the most
emotional days of my life," Carr
said. "I cried more tears than I
knew t had."
Before looking to the future,
Athletic Director Bill Martin
took to the podium.
He made sure to let everyone
know how much Carr's past ser-
vice at Michigan was appreci-
ated.
"I think Lloyd is going to be
hard to replace," Martin said.
"You could probably get coaches
in here that.could equal his win-
loss percentage, but will they
represent this institution in all
the ways that Lloyd does?"
-SCOTT BELL

Lengthy search for
football coach ends
in West Virginia
Dec. 11, 2007 - Fielding H.
Yost, the patriarch of Michigan
football, was a native West Vir-
ginian. Now, for the first time
since Yost stepped down in 1926,
the Wolverine program is back
to its roots, with a born and bred
Mountaineer at the helm.
West Virginia head coach Rich
Rodriguez, who grew up just five
miles from Yost's hometown, was
, introduced as Michigan's 18th
head football coach at a press
conference this morning.
The announcement conclud-
ed a four-week search in which
Michigan Athletic Director Bill
Martin was constantly vilified
as a number of high-profile can-
didates, most notably LSU's Les
Miles, publicly turned down the
chance to coach the Wolverines.
But Martin acted quickly in
hiring Rodriguez.
"Itwas avery difficult decision
to leave a place where I grew up,"
Rodriguez said. "It was going to
take a very special opportunity
and a very special place and I
think that's what this is."
Along with a history of win-

ning in his seven years at the
helm in West Virginia, Rodri-
guez brings the spread offense
he is credited with creating.
"If you want to know our
system or philosophy, if you've
watched us over the years, that's
w at you'll see," Rodriguez said.
"We're going to do what we've
done. That's the only thing we
know. I know we have the abil-
ity to adapt our schemes to our
personnel."
Rodriguez didn't offer many
specifics on the makeup of his
coaching staff, saying only it
would include some members
of his West Virginia staff, some
current Michigan coaches and-
perhaps some outside hires.
But his first task will be on the
recruiting end.
One high school senior who
was considering West Virginia
but said yesterday he would now
consider Michigan is Terrelle
Pryor. Pryor, a Pennsylvania
native, is the nation's top pros-
pect according to Rivals.com.
The coaching staff, recruit-
ing and contract terms will be
the topics of conversation in the
weeks to come. But today the
focus was on the new direction
of a storied program and the new
coach from a familiar place.
-NATE SANDALS

T hose who stay will be
champions.
That was Bo Schem-
bechler's cry to his players when
he took over as
head coach of A
the Wolverines
in 1969.
With discipli-
narian tactics,
Schembechler
whittled down a
squad that start- SCOTT
ed with about BELL
140 players to 75
before the 1969
season even started.
Why?"Because Bo coached on his
terms.
He could have been the nice guy,
gotten everyone to like him and set-
tled for a few decent seasons.
Instead, he was the bad guy -
when he needed to be. He earned
everyone's respect and settled for
nothingless than excellence.
After 13 Big Ten titles, 10 Rose
Bowl appearances and the rejuvena-
tion of a rivalry with Ohio State, I'd
say his way was probably the right
way.
Still not convinced? Every player
who entered Bo's system and stayed
for four years left with a Big Ten
Championship ring on his finger.
Bo kept his word: Those who
stayed really did become champions.
On and off the field, Bo was Bo,
and he always. demanded to do
things on his terms.
On Friday, Bo did exactly that:
went out on his terms.
Even though Schembechler had
been separated from the football
program by title for 17 years, Michi-
gan football remained in his blood.
On Thursday, Bo's physician
wanted to meet with him about
slowing down. What did Schem-
bechler do instead?
He addressed the Michigan foot-
ball team, just two days before the
biggest game of the players' lives.
Why wouldn't he? Bo was Bo - he
always did things his way.
Last Monday, he came to the
Junge Champioe "'Center for the
Michigan-Ohio State press confer-
ence.
An atheletic .dennrtmient renresn-

tative offered him a stool to sit on for
his press conference. Bo rebuffed
him, saying, "I don't need this."
And of course, he was right. He
didn't need it - Bo was Bo.
After he addressed the media
at the podium, Bo headed for the
door, but a smaller group of report-
ers gathered around him before.he
could leave. I took this as my chance
to speak with a legend.
So there Bo was, standing in front
of me. He had his car keys in hand
(of course Bo drove, himself to the
press conference) and kept sharing
memories of Michigan-Ohio State
matchups of the past.
He told all kinds of tales and sto-
ries and appeased the journalists
around him. Like the timehehad his
water shut off at the hotel in Colum-
bus the night before The Game. Or
about the game in Columbus where
he was convinced - and still was on
thedayofthe press conference - that
a field goal ruled no good was actu-
ally good. Or about how much he
respected Woody Hayes and cher-
ished-what the two went through to
make this rivalry what itistoday.
There I sat, just awestruck, look-
ing right at the reason why Michi-
gan football is Michigan football. It
was something that will stick with
me for the rest of my life.
As The Game approaches today,
it would be foolish not to put things
into context.
All week long, the only thing
people on campus, and hell, football
fans all over the United States, were
talking about was the game taking
place on Nov. 17.
But yesterday, talk of The Game
came to a complete halt. Discussion
shifted to The Coach.
To the man who was the reason
today's game is The Game.
He was a champion in every
sense of the word. On the field, off
the field, he was the personification
of a Michigan Man.
fo was Bo.
He stayed as long as he could, and
he left on his terms. Now it's time
for him to grab a seat next to Woody
fdr'tbfday's'game.
He wouldn't have wanted it any
other way.
-Novemher t 182006

.4

A

PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY: RODRIGO GAYA/Daily (left) & JEREMY CHO/Daly (right>)
Former coachloyd Carr is carried off the field after Michigan s41-35 win in the 2008 Capital One Bowl. Coach RichRodriguez looks on against Wisconsin in his first near.

A

.j

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 - 7B

Icers fall just short
of Championship

Comeback attempt
fails in semifinal
loss to Notre Dame
April 11, 2008 - DENVER - None
of the Michigan hockey team's
opponents this season have pro-
duced as many heart attack-induc-
ing moments as Notre Dame.
Two games against the Fighting
Irish - last night's 5-4 overtime loss
intheNCAAsemifinals and aJan. 18
3-2 thriller - were among the year's
most exciting.
One legitimized the young, inex-
perienced Wolverines' improb-
able midseason run to the top of the
national rankings.
The other ended Michigan's sea-
son one game early.
"It's devastating," freshman Matt
Rust said. "Just to see one shot end
your season. I feel bad, but I feel
worse for seniorslike Chad (Kolarik)

and (Kevin) Porter. They've given it
their all, and their one goal in col-
lege hockey was to win a National
Championship. It just sucks."
Th January game was the Wol-
verines' first true test of the season.
Six head-scratching minutes in,
Michigan (33-6-4) was down 2-0
and seemed dead on arrival. But the
Wolverines clawed back into the
contest, capping off the comeback
win in the final minute of regula-
tion.
After a 22-second span in last
night's first period, Michigan was in
an eerily familiar two-goal hole.
Notching its second goal of the
night before the announcer could
call the first, Notre Dame went up
2-0 less than six minutes into the
game. The Wolverines saw their
stock crumble from the favorite to
win the Frozen Four to a team that
looked wholly unprepared for col-
lege hockey's biggest stage.
-- ANDYREID

Freshman Stu Douglass celebrates after a breakaway layup in the Wolverines' 62-59 victory over Clemson in the first round of the 2009 NCAA tournament.

After an era of losses and letdowns, winning ways will emerge in its shadow

egendary Michigan broad-
caster Bob Ufer described
Michigan Stadium as "the
hole that Yost
dug, Crisler
paid for, Can-
ham carpeted
and Schem- T
bechler filled."
And for four
years, we had
the privilege DAN
of visiting its FELDMAN
northwest
corner seven
or eight times
each year.
If you're a Michigan fan on
this campus, many of the seminal
moments from your time here are
almost certainly Football Satur-
days.
For us fourth-year seniors, that
first game came in early September
of 2005 against Northern Illinois.
Unobstructed by anyconstruction,
sunlight filled Michigan Stadium.

And the Wolverines, wearing their
classic Nike uniforms, beat North-
ern Illinois, 33-17.
The game wasn't anything spe-
cial, just a typical warmup game
against Mid-American Conference
fodder. Jason Avant had nine catch-
es for 127 yards and a touchdown
in Michigan's pro-style offensive
scheme. But Michigan's defense,
under the coordination of Jim Her-
rmann, let Husky running back
Garrett Wolfe rush for 148 yards.
The game was over as quickly as
it began, and we went back to our
dorms to rest up for the last night
out before our first classes started.
Flash forward to the Northwest-
ern game this year. Remember how
you were happy you were standing
in the sleet? At least it was more
comfortable than the cold rain. In
an absolutely miserable game for
everyone involved, Michigan lost,
21-14.
In between, there were plenty of
moments that will stand the test of

time - both good and bad.
The Wolverines ruined Penn
State's perfect season on a last-
second Mario Manningham touch-
down catch, lost twice to Ohio State,
staged a 19-point comeback against
Wisconsin, lostto Appalachian State
and Toledo and waited in the locker
room while the student section held
an impromptu dance party during a
lightning delay.
But this is our legacy: 12 times
we got up early, went to our
favorite pregame spot, drank our
beverages of choice, headed down
Hoover, into the Big House and
then walked home after a Michigan
loss.
That's the most home losses
since the class of'68. From 1970-77,
the Wolverines lost just one home
game.
And the letdowns extended
beyond football. Before us, it had
been 15 years since a graduating
class didn't see a Michigan team
win a national championship.

We are the class of transition.
In our four years here, we ushered
out an era of Michigan athlet-
ics and witnessed the beginning
of another. We saw Lloyd Carr,
Tommy Amaker and Nike out and
Rich Rodriguez, John Beilein, adi-
das and luxury seating in.
And no, I didn't forget about
Red Berenson. He transcends eras.
Last year, he led the hockey team to
break its longest Frozen Four-less
streak in two decades, including
two years while we were in Ann
Arbor.
Don't get me wrong. It hasn't
been all bad. In addition to many
excellent games, we've seen some
of the greatest athletes in Michigan
history.
Running back Mike Hart and
Chad Henne might be the best
Wolverines ever at their respective
positions. And for my money, offen-
sive tackle Jake Long is the best
player in Michigan football history.
If Jack Johnson had stayed four

years, he could have been the best
hockey player in Michigan history.
Ditto for Manny Harris if he stays
two more years with the basketball
team.
And although most of you never
saw them compete, our three
years overlapped with four ath-
letes I consider to be the best ever
in their sport at Michigan: Tiffany
Ofili (women's track and field),
Peri Marosevic (men's soccer) and
Peter Vanderkaay (men's swim-
ming).
Still, the crowning moment for
our class came March 15 of this
year. We all knew the Michigan
men's basketball team would qual-
ify for the NCAA Tournament -
even before CBS's Selection Sunday
show. But when 60 teams' names
were called before the Wolverines',
a familiar skepticism festered in
us all. I guess nearly four years of
letdowns will do that.
But we're in a new era now, our.
second at Michigan.

After 10 years of waiting, the
men's basketball team was finally
invited to the NCAA Tourna-
ment. Beilein took the team from
a program-record 22 losses in his
first season to the Big Dance in his
second. The first-round win over
Clemson was just icing on the cake.
I remember a friend who was
a senior when we were freshman,
incredulous he went four years
without seeing the basketball team
make the tournament. At the time,
I laughed. I knew it wouldn't hap-
pen to us, even though two years
later I was sure we would have the
same fate.
Making it was enough.
And it probably won't be long
until Rodriguez has the football
team, which lost a program-record
nine games last year, heading in the
right direction, too.
Just a year too late for us.
- Feldman can be reached
at danfeldoumich.edu.


A

8B - Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MichiganEngineering

University of Michigan
College of Engineering

4

Dean'Js IHonor List
Peter Keros Steven Madsen Nikhil Parakar Bejamin Seaoy Joel Van Sloten
'The Dean and faculty of the College of Engineering Nashmia Khlid Chistia Maees Nevena Paipovic Marc Sehal Mark Van Winerden
MohammdKa aed Dnielle Mai Hyunwoo Park Emily Seidel Nicholas Vnausdll
All Khalil Katharine Maisel Sammy Park Christine Seitent Eric Vanbuher
Shihan Khan Chaitanya Malla Morgan Parker Nicholas Slten ryan Vanuen
Jahan Khanna Steven Mancewic Cherish Parrish Michelle Sepanski Erica Vntswik
co gauaet ef lo i gu d rrd ae o tann hya hna Andrem Maness Tyler Poch Thomas Seroic Mtthew Vanoeloop
co gauae te flo ig u deg a u tsfratiig Faa KaaChristopher Moion enjmin Pasoe Andrew Seeno JosephVavlebr
Adam Kidder Joshua Mann Izael Pskomska Eduardo eraons Varnkumar anine
Daniel Kieer Anthony Mnsoon Anali Pael Mathem Setler Aneta Venkatramee
Melanie Killips Mariss Mantey Heten Patel Nong She Leone Ventimili
the Dean's IH onor List These students completed a Benminlmer Thomas Manille Krn Pael Prth Shah VincentVedsh
GyuhoKi Mathem MannetS Kevl Pael Khram Shhid Jennier Vermesch
Heeds Kim Daniel Mrgl Knl Pael Kevin Shallross Marcel Vetrete
Hong Yoon Kim Anne Mornn Tapn Pael Barry Shng Lis Vidl
Jion Kim Johnson Mark Daniel Patrick Jonah Shapiro Mttew Viscomi
minim um of I2 graded credit hours and received a 3.5 GPA Rachel Kim Menlo Marko Zachary Patterson Gopalkishnehra Jnn iwnta
Sn oon Kim Bradley Mareten Nicholas Payne Viely Shakosky Michael Vittoio
Andrew King Tbeth Matel Kaityn Peale Lisa Sham Cory Vonachen
Benamin King Jessica Martens Alexander Pchenna Lee Shy Ay Vnk
Kristin King Cody Martin Shao Nina Pal Ye Shen Mark ossler
or better to earn the distinction of Dean's Honor Listfo Zachary King DlMatn o Pang Ray Sheng Kullen Wggner
fr John Kipf Gregory Martin iangi Pang Anne Sheppard Gregory Wagner
Brian Kiry Alejandro Martinez Zleat Jennier Perchonok Zachary Sherman Marc maner
Justin Kineszis David Maicsin Katherine Pertick Luoji Shi Scott Wagner
F lTe m 2 8.Justin Kik Yoshiki Masada Lisa Lynn Perez Siayo Shi Anthony Wabl
F l Tem 2 0 .Alo Kiturkes Ptryk Mastal Ryan Perkins aosung Shim Bryan Wale
Nathan Kimerus Eric Mstia Poell Perg Jason Shemker Drian Waltz
Nicole Kluz Michle Mstria Brett Perry Nathan Shoemaker Stephen Wld
Michael Abae Matthew Carpenter Mary Dbay Leslie Hall Ketlyn Klein Michael Mthieu Thomas Peter Abdul Siddiu ryan Wlent
men Abotleb Allan Carter Rachel Dudek Joseph Hem Lindsay Kic Ayush Mthur Bradley Peters Jhn Sidhom Manbhew Wlkowic
Andrew Adjiputrn Temperance Carter Matthew Duresne Thnms Hamilton Joshua Kling Mohmed Manoar Scott Peffer ordon Siegfriedt Scott Walls
Hitesh Kumar Agarwal Ian Canel Anupinder Dult Zachary Hamilton Kevin KIlke Peter Mattes Carl Peier Kte laffrances Wloko
Maynk Agrwal Stve Covnnr Alandri Dulchvsky Katherine Hammer Ryan Kock Andrew Muti David Peiffer Breana Sljnder William Wlsh
Nitwit Agrwla Rbert Ceao Olivia Dunn Christopher Hammond Jason Kloss Robert Mttingly Bradley Phillips Smooke Silvrstein Daniel Walsh Jr.
Ryan Agusino Adiya Chbri Ellen Dpier Emily Hammond Phil Kng Kevin Mtzn Rebecca Piks Tyler Simnds James Wlter
Kran Ahuie Eric Champion Matthew Durhum Mine Hoodi Michelle Knapp Christopher Meu Nishu Pillet Anged Deep SingS Thai Wan
Alo Albugh Jimmy Chan Aleoander Durye Michael Hn Andrew Kneiel Giogo Marolen Sudep Pllai Nirl SingS Chngyu Wang
Aerto Alaro Lawrence Chn Arun Dunea Eik Hand James Knockert David Mwell Laura Pilli Vict Sing Di Wang
Joshua Allemnn Pay Yuan Chat John Dydo David Hnley Gregory Koch Molly May Jonathan Pinlc Nirmish Single Hal Wang
Yash Ambrdekar Wai Lee Chn Jason Dykstr Kevin Hnontel Ji Ko Kelley Maynard Dominic Pirn Jyotirdity Sinha Hongyu Wang
Ashley Anderson Anito Chng Alenander Eagal Jonathan Hnna Jay Koher Steven Mzur Jefrey P100t Kyle Sinkus Jessica Wang
Dyna Andersnn Margaret Chang Brian Easton Clarence Hanson Jeremy Kohitz Christina McAllister Paul Plucinsky Evn Sippe Liniang Wang
Kyle Anderson Sa-Won Chng Coin Eaton Erik Hanson Brian Khlwey Paul McAlpine Phillip Poissn Kathryn Siuniak Michael Wang
James Anderson Ill Yuan Chng Jhn Ebert Clist Harbaugh Tkeshi Kike Michael McCann Marshall Poland Sudemshn Ruiun Wang
Thomas Andrtti Norman Chao Ein Esch Matthew Hrreadr Mao Kolsinski Steven McCarty Ashley Pllck Sivraakrisnn Shuyu Wang
Emily Andrews Christopher Chrnow Eric Eckstein Alender Howlis Nthn Knldrmn Mutthw McCrick Sthptch Pongasuth Christopher Sketch Siin Wang
Peter Andrews Valerie Chase Nicholas Eddy Dylan Howlis Andrew Koltonow Michael McCormick Jessica Port Aaron Siba Teresa Wang
Yudiono Andryntn Nikhil Chaudri Matthew Edelman Michael Hrrisne Mson Koon Patricia McCormick Eric Porter Alexander Skpec We-Tung Wang
Shari Anus Matthew Chegsh Chase Edmonds Prteek Hewnh Brian Kordich Met McCullough Nathan Porter Monik Skowonka Yang Wang
Tamir Abel Liing Chat Rachel Eggedt Zhid Hasn Beth Korkuch Matthew McCullough Daniel Ports Spencer Slew Yefei Wang
Anurg Aone Lies Chen Kyle Egnor Tkeshi Hasegw Antenna Kosin Kyle McDvitt Jeremy Poser Maim Savin Yzhou Wang
Domres Ashon Minghu Chat Lauren Ehart Scont Hselschwrdt Benjamin Kosinski Kyle McDonald Chloe' Powell Jason Sleigt Yu Wang
Jacob Askari Oliver Chen Mana El-anyn Adw Hshimoto Daniel Kosinski Kevin McDonugh James Powers Alexander Slobod Yun Wang
Anthony Ats Olivia Chen Homvey Elliott Dan Hssing Cyrus Kosztowny Douglas Mcwn Ryan Powers Carolyn Slopsem Aleshe Wrd
Mark Ausborn Peter Chen Kyle Elmbld Brett Hason John Kotwick Allssndra Mc~innis Alvin Prnt Brittany Smith Eve Wrd
Eva Avery Stephanie Chat Agd EI-Sisi Megan Hauert Denise Kouiter David Mc~rail Adrian Prayog Erich Smith Veronica Ward
Jessica Avery Tony Chen Alfred Eng Timothy Hag Ryan KaoB Nicholas Mc~rail Michael Priesand Jenni Sith Andrew Warren
Peter Annum Y Chat Alexander Ertwan Michael Huingr Lindsy Knll Nathan McKay Joseph Pritchard Joshua Smith Robert Warrn
Hasean Awda Yuan Chen roe Escawilla Jffry Hayden Matthew Kramer Andrew McKelvey Alexander rog Lndon Smith Ales Was
Ana Ayu Yunto Chat Patrick Ethn Michael Hyter Scott Kramer Dris McLesky Michael Prybylek Mallory Smith OnidAn Watson
Kelly Bacock Zachary Chen Ryan Ethier Amand Hazel Mary Keu Allison Mchamr Robert Prybylski Paul Smith Jasmine Way
Crin Bchynski Zhewei Chat Mer Evns Daniel Hazet Rchel Koosma Ales Med Anton Pugh Preston Sith Ales Webster
Abbas Bader Aleandr Chang Sarah Ewing Ye He Stuart Krueger Kunl Mehta Andrew Putman Chales Smith Ill Kisti Wegener
Christopher Bak Andrew Cheng All Pdlllh Steven Hechtwan Michael Kug Mitli Meht Meghe Qian Hyly Smithkrt Dgm Wehr
Alyssa Bailey Tn-Pin Daniel Cheng Brian Pallin Joshua Henderson Evn Kuite Shwta Meht in Qiu Stephanie Snohlen Huxia Wel
Broke Bailey Jeffrey Chenhall iay Paoy Mark Hendry Jayprksh Kumr Joshua Meisel Zheng Ou Kathryn Snyder La Wel
Austin Baker Shan Keel Cheok Yunb an Coin Heker Rajen Kumar Timothy Mekar Marie Quigley Alvin So Ryan Weigold
Laura Baker Dene Cherba Lance ath Eily Herbert erald Kumer Dusin Meldrum Caton Qunanill Christine So Mtnhew Weis
Margu Baker Vipul Chhajer Ian Paulknr Christopher Herawi Stephanie Ku Kevin Mloti Evn usenbrry Aaron Sobieray Laura Weier
uha Blakishnan Stephen Chi Jacob Cut Rez Hrrick Brett Kuprel Thomas Malz Rebecca Rbbn Math Soison Michael Wast
Justin Bll Jaee Childs Vldiir edorov John Heshug Vnia Kurikes Reglio Mnchc Lucas Radon Jaes Soloon Jr. Carl Welch
Kisopher Bll Kenneth Chin Hynes ernando Philip Hewes Joseph Kult Sarah Menchk SurtjRRhhaj ReBecca Sondy Christopher Welch
Warren ame Weicheng Chin Brna Prts Michael Hywood Rebecca Kurrle Osald Mndoz Sumeet al Wtchsun Sookhwtks Matthew Welch
Tyson Bnbury Yea Chon Chin Dnil icek Jacqueline Hibbrd Emily Kurswe Teine Merideth Sheila aja Diego Soo Yilng Wn
Michael SrenE Alex Chiryth Christopher ieelkorn Lauren Hickey Kurt Kurenhauser John Merrill Uppili Rjgopln Nathan Soule Kevin Wenek
Eik Brhara S-Yee Chiu Andrew Pilad David Hiemtra Eric Kuykendall Stephen Mez Rupk Rjaraw Ryan Sparks Michael Wrries
Adam Benett Roert Chuw Kevin ielder Adam Higuer ig Hng Kw Christopher Michlik Neal Rkesh Amber Spears AledWeazel
Ross Brnowski David Cho regor PFlp Dry Hdeand Jr. Jacky Kwk Marc Michner okul Rwaswai Elizabeth Spencer Chiry Wy
Pawan Batn Hn-Je Cbs Victor irenini Matthew Hilk Andrew LChrie ins Midni Joel Rairez Tyler Spiring Alyss Wheeler
Jonathan Barr Victoria Chox Anne isher Draw Hill Michael Ladny Daniel Millet David Ramos Royn Spink Kathryn Whelan
Scott Bartkxwiak Byng Kun Cho Coin izner Cliv Hilligs Kyle Lady Marjorie Miller Marc Rnk Mayo Spvak Sen Whipple
Alexander Bartlett Dennis Cho Jennifer lchs Ramsey Hilton John Lfontin Meredith Miller David Rnney Mark Sprague Croline Whitker
Rhekah Bartlett Jong So Chi Lauren ldger Kristen Hinkle Brian La~rence Samantha Miller Peter Rawono Sarah Sure Dle White
Marco Brtolme Seitu Chonde Brittany lherty Viks Hirewath Paym Lhiji Victoria Miller Matthew Rauinger Nayn Srivastav Stephanie Widig
Justin Bass Neel Chopra Jacob lood Deneieve Ho Pxt Yeas La Louise Millot Sneh Rvi Jason Stanley Jonathan Wiebenga
Kathryn Bean Aaron Chxw Justin Pogle Jinfa Ho Smon La Adw Mills Alexander Red Michael Starch Brian Wieger
Cameron ates Evn Christensen David Pok Ran Jie Keith Ho James Laird II Dong Joon Mn Steven Reddwann Joseph Strek Reynold Wija
Jonathan Boer Austin Chrzanowski Paul oley Bradley HotS We Jie Low Yiin Mi DalmedRdy Ethn Strk Ronald Wijya
Nichlas Bety Pal Chu Jessica ong Spencer Hockbor Douglas Lamert Ryan Mina Joshua Radnan Adrian Stcal Ryan Wilkeson
Marypat Beaufait Jingping Chu John o Jacoh Hernscheeyer Justi Lmy Joshua Miymoo Dne Reggie Robert Steen Jonathan Williams
Marc Bccheti Kok-Shing Ch Eric ote Alexandra Holbel ihong Ln Prki Mohal Jordan Reilly Robert Steibock Mtnhew Williams
Andrew Beck V Jie Chu David oret Brian Hlcm Kevin Lance William Mot Keyes Remick Kyl Stellr Nicholas Willias
Sew Bank Eric Chung Julia ocher Courtean Hoscher Jessica Lnglois Paul Monceik Zachary Rennet Anete Stephanu Mark Wilson
Daniel Becker Alfred Chng Emilia Frcz Benji Honick Mark Lpnsie Jr Piljo Moon Paer Rex Alvin Steven Scott Wion
Nicholas Becker Andrew Chung Jn rncis Steven Hong Shne Lrkin Shne Moore David Retterth William Stewart Mao Winalnd
Samuel Bcktt Inyong Chung Rebecca rank Lauren Hood Joshua Lemson Mrle Morales Stephen Retig Adity Sthnnanthn Charles Wielnd Ill
Dn Beckhm Matthew Chung Josselyn rnkiewicz Jsti Hopkins Scott Ltulip Caroline Morel Paul Rhee Matthew Sties Richard Wiowieki
MatBakke Pael Chvykv Debra rnklin Ash Hosagadi Ki Ming Lau Kelly Morga Mark Rehin Mtnhew Stoebrr Matthew Wiowki
Laura Bell Lynn Ciarelli Matthew roltz Pal Hu Matthew Luer Nicholas Moro Robert Rhein William Soffel Aren Wiratok
Chrisopher Bllat Alexander Ciceroe Bradley rybr David Howard Robert Lawrence Steven Morris Emily Rice Alexander Soklos Marty Wit
Joseph eler Robert Ceslk Matthew ridmn Bryan Howell Ca La ranki Moc Robert Rickel Lauren Strehs William Wiwel
Jessie Baaglis Jared Clrk Matthew Friedrichs Conner Howell Jason La Emily Moses Nicholas Ridnour Douglas Strait Evelyn Woes
Nathan Bennett Nathaniel Clarke Timothy Pies Michael Howley Phil Le John Molopulo Douglas Rigeink Ian Stuart - Hoff Ryan Wolcon
Brandon Bensel Steven Clarkon Emmanuele ronii Kevin Hsu Marc Lced Jusin Moyer Joshua Riley Ryan Stk Jke Wolnbeg
Michael Bager Nicholas Clay Chrisopher rost Lucky Ha Andrew Lea lint M Jessica Rilly Ryan Sturgeon Aol Wolf
Tyler egis Matthew Claysn Thomas rost James Hung Juwo Lea Jason Mcdioll rik Ringo Xi-Kn S His Wong
Ryan Bernstein Eileen Clemens Hoyn u Jinheng Hung Paul Lee Chistpher MuicS Michael Ristoski unjn Sd Jeff Wong
Jusin Broz Brent Climns Kohe ujimox Jordan Hung ies Yi Lea Eric Muir Benji Rizzo Huy Shalt Sue Stephanie Wong
Ktelyn Bevier Michael Cluskey Carrie unk Ju-Ping Hung Sang Wu Lee Michael Mllins Sbin Roberts Ashley Sullivan Was Jie Wong
Sidharth Bhandei Benjamin Coffer Tkshi ura Mike Hung Yng Leong Lee Matthew Mulvey Wler Roberts IV Rachel Sullivan Sang Woo Woo
Prtik Bhargav Alec Cohen Reese Dallgher Sam Hung Scott Leigh Mine Munteau Joshua Robinson Bryan Sumersett Ay Woodward
Andrew Salom Alexander Cohen Jeremy am Adam Hug Joseph Leli hrtram Marli Matthew Robinson Hixue Sn John Woolsey
An Biedermn Michael Collins Michael ambill Alexander Hg Adrienne Lembrger Ashley Mrphee Aaron Rocc i Sun Did Wright
Theresa Biehe Nicholas Cllins Rushbh Dandhi Patrick Hughes Dv Lerwan-Sinkff Bernard Murphy Crin Rocci Yue Sun Benjamin Wa
Zachary Bier Daniel Confer Rishi Daniwale Jalin Hungeord Katherine Laka Bradley Murphy Joon Rodgew Nun Alt Aiqa Sunaim Christopher We
Daniel Biggs Zhaori Cong An a esasn - Maxwell Huntr Ann Lesesky Courtney Murphy Dnil Rodriguez Ryne Sng David Wa
David Blby Sarah Conkle Payel Dngspedhyey Treor Hunter Jes Esprance David Murphy Lilina Rodriguez Noah Sunwessn Tong Wa
Cody Bird Matthew Coln Lingeng 0ao Craig Hppedaz Bet Leng Prihvi Mrthy Krisna Roe asey Swminelbn Zhe Wa
Roen Biws Kevin Connolly Xang Des Elliot Hwng Seth Levine Courtney Mudleand Brett Roges Jsin Swet Eric Wustrow
Mazin Biviji Steven Cooper Yang Des Jimmy Hwang Jacob Levy Thomas Muhroe Byong Ro Zchriah Swaky ilthoi
Christopher Ois Nichls Corbin Yii ao Jihyng Hwag Bryan Lewedswski Brndon Myrs David Rolk Laura Swirzbin Zhe Sang
Kevin Blck Josiah Crnett Nick Detet Maggie Hwang Marcus Lewis Patrick Myers Joshua Rollins Jessica Szemrj Jane Xies
Adtna Blzeski Mark Cstell rgory Darbern Zachary Hwang Sarah Lewis Karl Negagst Kyle Romro Tigo Svarca Wa Siao
David Behmer Michelle Coe Emily arcia Prince Idichndy Mark Lwkswicz Anthony Nalli Matthew Rondon Zachary Talus Syan ing
Shne Boeher Daniel Cx Jason agrave Sarah Ilkhni-Pur Alvin Li Zheng Nan David Rood Aaron Tmi Bingois Xu
Eric Boekelo Caitli Cramer Ryan arroe eoffrey Inch Donald Li Victor Nrdoe Nicholas Roney Hwee Lin Tn Henry Xu
Sen Boera Adaw Cistiao Dnial Does Benjamin Isacoff Png Li Sunil Naa Christopher Rosa Yiyu Daniel Tn Jija So

Calvin Boenger Nikl Cnjanski James awon Chukwa Isichel Jes Li Amndo Never Matthew Rose Esther Tng Vqgig Xu
Liz Bottem Martin Cddy Jnnierele Ashley Is Kok Cheung Li Christopher Neely Jeffrey Roses Michael Tels Yiwen So
Nathaniel Bon Yun Cal Maynard Joseph Dellad Jeffrey Isstrinyuas Li Cody Neil Reecc Rosnbum Jh Tphous Zhongan So
Thoma Bombach Momc Clki David eevich Spencer Jacobs Ran Li David Nelson Alexander Rosenberg Donald TppnsS me Yaco
Abram Booth Andrew Cunningham Molli Drken Chistopher Jaeger Yi Li Jaes Nelson Andrew Rosie Ricky Taslim Douan Yes
Katherine Borema Kurt Cnnighaw Chelsea erlch Anael Jaffe Ziji Li Mithu Naal Anthony Ross Kyle Tuzer Joseph Yacey
Jason Bornhors Alexandra Curaudeau Shin DrtS Rahul Jin Zihong Lien Shannon Neville Eric Rosseti Donald Ty Suye Yandmuri
Katherine Boawan Noah Curhan Jacky ing Shalaj Jin Yiqn Liang Maxwell Newhuse Christopher Rossi Xu Qiang Edwin Ty Mingming Yang
Kimberly Bowman Christine Cannn Vincent iang Peril Jipny Christopher Lilly Amanda Neyhrt Nicholas Roual Yn Yuan Ty Zhayi Yang
Christopher Boyd Peter Cartn Adam iespp Ryan James Adophs Lim Jonathan Nezich Ales Rowe Holly Tedeingo Vfn Yang ong
Michael oya Tom Currn Naneet ill Lokesh Jnrthnew Dry Lim Domres Ng Hudson Rowland Ryan Tller Jonathan Yap
Ryan Boyle Andrew Curtis Ernest Dllard Todd Janet James Liw Jacob Ng Nathan Rowley Nicols Tepes Jstin Yaroni
Christopher Bracken Michael Cukey Eliot DGilso Marc Jankoski Sekchu Lim Jerey Ng Brittany Roy ElizehlTnanet Kevin YeS
Jordan Bradley Scott Caler Treor Dlick Karl Jnsen TiaWoos Vivinne Lim Hy Nguyen Gandhew Roy Traie Te Winshang YeS
James Badshaw Michael Carecki Michael Dlotter Alysa Jenkins Ying Y Liw Quoc-Ah Nguyen Curtis Rosle Jeffrey Terasi Chritphr Yen
Thomas Brady Jr. Johann Dahm Stephen Dlynn Anne Jenks Yuan Li Kevin Lim Thomas Nicholls Bradley Rbin Mre Trn Lohi Yewea
Ashley Brgans Brenda Dailey Shi-Jng oes Brian Jennings Hoho Li Cndce Nickollof Scott Rudkin Samuel Tews Edwin k
Andrew Brandon Robert Daiz RoeSt Deddel Jogu Jest Mary Lit Sen Nikar Mark Rudolf Theodoros Thnopoulos Yalci imes
Ramsey Broze Andrew Danesky Madhen ol Kual Jham Yndi Ln Khaisse Niipti David Rueenso Rj Thpr Jonathan Yin
Caleb Brazier Ean Dns Alo off Moy Ji Alec Lind Tsuyshi Niwe Brian Rmo Andrew Thiideu Limor Yoai
Lauren Bridge Curtis Dauw Matthew oS Roger Jia Stephen Lindsay Christopher Nolting Jessica Rnel Anne Thiel Travis Yoo
Benjamin Brierty Steven Dvey John Doiri Jnha Jing Mok Lndtrow Stephen ogan Nipua Rpsighe Eshwr Thirnakkras Deokkyn Yost
Dregory Bily Adw Davis Christopher oldestein William Jiang Rng Lng Mark Nordhoek Maxwell Ryan Eily Thms Hyn Mis Yoo
Ross Bros Jred Davis Ales odman Xiofeng Jiang Tiothy Link Natty Noprepors Ora Ryak William Thoas Christie Young
Jxel Brooks Patrick Davis Joel oodman Vwn Jing Rachel List Bradley Nrdwan Hai Saab Piy Thyagrjn Trevor Young
Jeremy Brows Catherine Davin Kirk oodman Yaing Jing Andrea Lscher Donald Norman Aaron Schs Julie Tibbits Pa Y
Megan Sowy Marlne On Fritas Anop opal Samuel Ji Chngyun Lu Michelle Noroh Anthony Sachs Ron Tilk Nathan Ya
Nathan Brown Heather Dean Mark ordon Andrew Jimbo Jason Li John Michael Noviski Snil Sdasivn Andrew Till Peidi Ya
Rex Brown Joseph Dear Alex Gorodesky Lam Jn Jeffrey Lix Megan Noys Jooie Sadler Jordan Timerma Cho Yuan
Stephen Brown Jennifer DHadt Mural ozm Lu Jin Tiny Lix Daniel Oaken Dhritimn Sagr Randy Tin Jifu Yuan
Jeremy Brownie regory DeJute Waler ral Oiyang Jn William Lloyd Ill Bradley Oatme rderic Sle Eser Tril ng in Yuan
Daniel Brce Benjamin Dennis Timothy ray Wisit Jiattigalchoe Vinca Lx Piccolo Amelia Oberlin Zne Sliw roe Tjin Vi Yuan
Laura Stunner Akhay Desai Cameron ryeal Archis Joglekr Adam Lobbestel John O'Brien Amnd Sll In Tosco Benjamin Yill
Eric Stunning Mhesh Dvarsety Jeremy Dren Janet John Nicholas Lockhart Sen O'Connor regory Slvesn Matthew Tolkc Toms Zak
Parnika Bubna David Devcsery Zch Dreebeg Kelly Johnson Cody Londl Rachel Ogr Julia Samorezon Carn Towr Ted Zroff
Udayan Babso Christopher Devis effry rening Cyon Johnson Sarah Londl Stephanie Ogua Tyler Sandeson Benjamin Topping Cix Zech
Fred Buchanan Stephen DeWitt Anal reenway Spencer Jolly Caton Lopez Ryoji Okad Matthew Sandy Michael Tiane Meghan Zelony
Ian Bcrek Inderbir Dhilon Elise Dregory Zachary Jons Josue Lopez Lawrence Okwai Andrew Sppawlteis Patrick Tryor Ill Benjamin Zhng
Colleen Budd Xinjie Di Nicols regory Daniel Joik erld Lou uilero Olaizola Leslie Savage Andrea Tres Chnhex Zhng
Adam Budde Tim Diond Jcob riffi Kathryn Jorgenson Yagbig Lou Allison O'Leary Stephen Savage John Treumuth Chenties Zhang
John Budorick Christopher Dehl Math riffi Steven Joseph Adil Low Nicholas Dlimier Alexander Scales Anthny Triczzi Dn Zhng
Alan Buene Blamne Dierich Christopher Grimm Jxnahan JbS Andrew Chin Hock Low Adam Olshove Jason Schch Jcky Tnih Dinyn Zhng
Joshua Bulema Christine Disis Paul romr Olivia Junila Chnchn L Andrew Dion Nicholas Scheaterle Sarah Trombley Jason Zhng
Jordan Burnie Samuel ilter Johnna ram Michael Jrczk Kathrine Lu Joel Ondesma Timothy Scheatzel Emmanuel Tspriks Jy Zhng
Ian Brnis Maxwell Dixon Jeme runngle Pal Jske Louise La Logan Conk Megan Schffer Kevin Ts Shyuan Zhng
Joshua Busch Alexandra Does Alln Do Brian Jstusson Xunjia Lu Sophie Orach Kevin SchlemaLi Y Leo Tse Yiting Zhng
Briton Bsh Mark Dobbie Hng Do Michael Kbcenel Vsi Lu Met Oins Edward Schehr Caleb Tang Zhiio Zhng
Michael Butler Haln Doenitz Zhe uet Ttsuy Knmyx Zhu L Nicholas Orichella eorge Schick Joseph Tucker Bowel Zho
Nicholas Bulet Joseph Dolim Andrs uerrero Edwin Kng Zhujie La Ryan Oizond Kyle Schilling Robert Toer Boyang Zho
Jared Sass Curney Doma Robert ugielmo Mini Kapadi Ryan Lucas Daniel Osahwski Jill Schehtwg Brian Turner Luochen Zha
Edward Byrne Benjamin Don Stephanie Duisbrt Daille Kpla Peter Ludwig Jeffrey Otto Ross Schmaames ObmaxeTtej Shang Zho
Matthew Byrne Kiil Dontchan John Dulbronson Brittany Kser Michael Luginbill Klsey Owens Paul Schmidt Nena Udgunem Cho Zhen
David Cadwel Charles DorgrIli Lee Dundeso Steven Ket Vuxing Lax Sara Pace Andrew Schon Ntash Udp Siji Zhng
rgory Cadwell Michael Doud Weting uo Kevin Kasuic Kevin Lyons Patricia Pachec Matthew Schinager Awand Uliich So Zheg
Benjamin Cala Brandon Drake Nha Doyle Philip Ktes Jng Me Deepk Pdwanabhes Keagn Schiidr Matthew Upton Di Zhu
Christopher Callahan Jason Drake Eric Hapaniemi Milan Kaumnn YueVaM Melisa Pjerski Nicholas Schulke Corine Uskli Irene Zh
Zachary Cammega Brittany Denkow William Hackett Vidur Kaushish Vnlong Me Christopher Plldio Christopher Schummr John Uik Yabo Zhu
Brad Campbell Mark Drsslhouse Benjamin Hgan Erdn Kypon Michael Maning Pan Patricia Schuster Cipa Uam Yundng Zhang
Ian Campbell Kevin Drmm Zoheb Hajiyei Patrick Kllm Brennan MacDonald Jan Panama Adam Schut Kent Utam Owen Zinmn
An Co Bryan D'Soa Andrew Hkim Lauren Kmink Kenneth Menilliry Mohammed Pndit Anne Schwabe Srh Vn Cot Edward Ziger
Jonathan Crender Zhekng Do Brian Hle Slves Kmpien Matthew McKinno Patrick Pnnto Joathon Schwartz Desr Ves Drasek Uiang Zoo
Justine Calnon Witex Dues John Hll Benjamin Kapke Matthew Maclaos Nasal Panprek Sees Scoell Matthew Van Ek Lauren Zwng
Seen Coney Nestor Db Karen Hall Scott Kennedy Evn May Statn anon Phillip Scott Christopher Van Snt Crey Zweges

A

I

'1

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
3

Tuesday, April 21, 2009 - 9B


10B3- Tuesday, April 21, 2009

The Michigan Daily -- michigandailyxom

lOB - Tuesday, April 21,2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
r

PENS TIKE Dedication at every turn.
Move home
with Penske
Reserve your truck Online
and save iO*/
" Free unlimited mileage
on one-way rentals
* Clear, simple rates
* Moving boxes and
supplies available
Save now and later
Reserve your Penske truck online and
save 10% now through June 30, 2009. /
Save another 10%. on your returns
trip booked online July 1 through

September 30, 2009.* u
1621 Plymouth Rd..
AnnArbor, Ml.48105
734-302-4053 x
1-800-GO-PENSKE
GoPenske.com
Share Your
Move With Us
For a chance to win up to $500.
Visit pensketruckrental.com/promotions for more details.


