NOT JUST TALK
The Copenhagen Climate Summit Ag
is an opportunity for the U.S. to
toughen environmental standards.
SEE OPINION, PAGE 4 SEE

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, December 11, 2009

michigandaily.com

WHO HAS THE BEST MOVES?

STUDENT RIGHTS
Future is
uncertain
for student
code change

NVR Flo, a hip-hop dance group formed in 2006, performs yesterday at Michigan's Best Dance Crew in the Michigan Union Ballroom. At the event, dance groups competed
for $450 in prizes and the opportunity to call themselves the best dance crew on campus. Despite tough competition, Dance2XS ended up winning the title.
LITIGATION R EPORT
Former prof.'s case back in court

After MSA vote,
officials disagree on
next step for burden
of proof amendment
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
When the Michigan Student
Assembly voted earlier this week
to rescind its support for a con-
troversial amendment to the Uni-
versity's student code of conduct,
the vote threw a wrench into a
bureaucratic process that had
been underway for months. It also
left administrators and other cam-
pus officials scrambling to figure
out where the proposal goes from
here.
The amendment, which would
have lowered the standard of evi-
dence needed to find students
guilty of violating the Statement
of Studentof Rights and Responsi-
bilities, was a collaborative effort
from many campus organizations
since its inception.One ofthe main
goals was to reduce the burden of
proof needed to punish students
for violations of the Statement,
bringing the University in line
with many other colleges across

the country. Additionally, the
change would bring the burden of
proof in line with that of faculty,
staff and students at Rackham
Graduate School here on campus.
Currently, the Statement of Stu-
dent Rights and Responsibilities
requires -"clear and convincing"
evidence to prove a student guilty
of violating rules set forth in the
student code - meaning the case
reviewer must be confident a vio-
lation occurred.
However, the proposed amend-
ment would lower the standard
to require a "preponderance of
evidence" - meaning the case
reviewer would merely need to
believe it was more likely than not
that a violation occurred.
The proposed changes were
brought before MSA in October
for consideration. The assembly
voted at the time to move it for-
ward without debate. However, a
vote by MSA members on Tuesday
night reversed the group's posi-
tion, terminating the assembly's
support for the amendment.
An unclear picture remains in
the wake of that vote as to where
the proposal currently stands.
Some University officials told the
Daily that the proposal will need
to be re-introduced through one
See CODE, Page 3

Lawsuit brought by
Peter Hammer has
dragged on for more
than five years
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily StaffReporter
A former University Law School
professor will appear in court today
for the third time since he original-

ly filed a discrimination suit against
the University five years ago, claim-
ing he was wrongfully denied ten-
ure for being openly gay.
Peter Hammer, who now teaches
law at Wayne State University, left
the University in 2003, shortly after
he was denied tenure in a closed-
door faculty vote. Hammer claims
the faculty's decision to deny him
tenure is in violation of the Univer-
sity's non-discrimination policy.
Today's hearing will deter-
mine whether the case will go to

trial, after it was twice postponed
becausethe Universityfiled motions
for dismissal -. both of which were
subsequently denied.
A decision on the motion was
supposed to be made in early
November, but both sides agreed to
push it back to better accommodate
scheduling conflicts.
According to an Oct. 10 article
published in The Michigan Daily,
the University initially argued that
an alleged violation of its policy
could not be pursued in a legal set-

ting. After mounting faculty pres-
sure, though, the University revised
its legal strategy in 2006 and now
maintains that discrimination was
not a factor in the decision to deny
tenure to Hammer.
James Giddings, 30th Judicial
Circuit Court judge, will hear oral
arguments in a public hearingtoday
regarding a summary disposition
filed by the University that requests
the case be thrown out.
Today marks. the University's
- See HAMMER, Page 7


CAMPUS CRIME
Report: On campuses, sexual
assaults clouded by 'secrecy'

A WARM WAIT ON A COLD DAY

Despite national
findings, officials
say'U'bucks trend
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Though a recent report dis-
covered that there is a "culture
of secrecy" on college campuses
when it comes to sexual assault,
University officials and campus
groups say that isn't the case at
the University.
The report commissioned by
the Center for Public Integrity
called Sexual Assault on Cam-
pus found that there is a "cul-
ture of silence" surrounding
sexual assaults on university
campuses. According to Kris-
ten Lombardi, the lead writer of
the report, 95 percent of college
women who have been sexually
assaulted do not report it to an
official.
"Students that reported being
victims on campus often see
a host of barriers that ensure
their silence or leave them feel-
ing re-victimized," she said.
Lombardi said she and her
co-reporter interviewed 48 col-
lege officials and other experts
on the topic, including campus
victim advocates and sexual
assault service coordinators,
as part of the study. They also
WEATHER HI: 31
TOMORROW LO: 26

interviewed 50 students who
had been sexually assaulted
while they were in college.
Lombradi said many of the
students they interviewed said
their school administration dis-
couraged them from involving
the campus judicial branch by
painting the process in a "nega-
tive and unappealing light."
"This keeps students from
moving forward," she said.
"They think, 'if I'm not going to
be supported then, why should I
bother telling anybody."'
But Department of Public
Safety spokeswoman Diane
Brown said this isn't the case
at the University. She said DPS
works to try and dispel myths
that it wouldn't move forward
with an investigation through
a 10-point promise brochure
issued earlier this semester.
"This brochure illustrates
the commitment that police
officers here have to working
with the individual that makes
complaints of being sexually
assaulted," she said. "It's also
our way of havingsomething for
people who know someone who
has been assaulted so they can
have a document to give them."
The 10-point promise says
that police officers will meet
with the individual at a place
of his or her choosing and will
consider the case regardless of
gender and sexual orientation.

Brown said student victims
are in control of the whole pro-
cess, can stop at any point and
are constantly kept informed
throughout.
"What this promise is
attempting to do is dispel and
debunk the myths that once
you tell the police you lose all
control," she said. "That's not
true."
Brown added that the Univer-
sity encourages students who
have been victimized to report
it so the University can help.
"When those laws are vio-
lated we all need to help sup-
port the enforcement of those
laws. The police can only do so
much," she said. "They can't
enforce laws if they don't know
something has occurred."
Brown said that contrary to
the report's findings, the Uni-
versity encourages students to
report sexual assaults because
it not only benefits the victim,
but the University as well.
"This is an environment of
encouraging reporting to be
accurate and helpful to our Uni-
versity community," she said.'
"Cover-up is never going to be
helpful since it never results in
a good resolution for individual
and certainly isn't good for the
University in the long run."
In addition to coming for-
ward to DPS, students have
See REPORT, Page 7

LSA freshman Helen Cheong waits for the Bursley-Baits bus inside of the C.C. Little Building yesterday. Temperatures yesterday
fell below zero degrees with the wind chill.
Students bring ACT help to Detroit

Campus group
Letters to Success
tutors inner-city
high schoolers
By ANNIE THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
There's something about the
University of Michigan that
inspires the best in its students.

Just ask Ross Chanowksi, a Public
Policy junior who has been work-
ing on creating a campus group
to help high school students in
Detroit since his freshman year.
Chanowski's organization,
Letters to Success, matches Uni-
versity students with high school
students in the Detroit-metro area
for eight-week ACT tutoring ses-
sions. The program is endorsed by
the University's School of Educa-
tion and is now wrapping up its
first full semester of operation.

The project is currently serving
some juniors at Willow Run High
School in Ypsilanti.
Chanowski got the idea to start
the program while he worked
with a student in Detroit as part of
a class he took his freshman year.
"I thought, wow, this kid is
really intelligent," Chanowski
said. "But, he had no grammati-
cal structure and would have got-
ten a zero on the essay test of the
ACT and he really didn't have any
See GROUP, Page 7

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Zoltan Mesko loses the Ray Guy Award.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEW S . ..............................2 ARTS................
Vol CXX, No.65 SUDOKU............................3 CLASSIFIEDS.
( 'ttttt.Th.M.chigan.Da.ly. .PINI ..... . . 4 SPORTS................
""chigandailycc'

..-5
.... ..
.... ..

$


e0

2 - Friday, December 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com

GARY GRACA
Editor in Chief
734-647-3338
graca@michigandailycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom oef
Nes Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography tDepartment
Arts Section
Editorial Pate
Sports Section
Display tales
Classitied Sales
Online Sales
Finance

DAN NEWAN
Business MonEoger
734-764-0000
emdbusineoo@onnailteom
tuie hocirs: Sc.-Tthuc. 11o.m. - 2 .m.
rewcpeihigazdaiy.com
correcnionas@michigandaity.oe
totedaily@michigandaiy.com
photo@michigandaiy.com
artapagaujeicigandaiy.om
opinionpoiubigcodaity.cm
aportspoiubigandaiy.cn
disaymnichigandaity.com
etaacified@micigandaityecom
onlineadscpiotiandaiy.con
Jlnace@michigandaity.com

LEFT The Michigan men's basketball team huddles for a timeouO durng
Michians 67-53 it over Arkansas-Pone Bluff at Crisler Arena on Sanon-
day. (SAM WOLSON/Daily) ABOVE A page from the Book of Iterations
Gallery a the Institute of Humanities. (JAKE PROMM/Daily) RIGHT
Hith school students rehearse mith members of the Michigan Marching
Band at Cisler Arena on Sunday. (TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily)
Get more photos of the week at michigandailycom

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Shrub stolen Pot found

WHERE: Nichols Arboretum
WHEN: Wednesday morning
at obout 1:08 .m.
WHAT: A tree, port ofa
centennial shrub collection,
was stolen, University Police
reported. The tree's monetary
value is unknown. There are
no suspects.

WHERE: Mosher-Jordan Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 11:15
WHAT: A small amount of
marijuana was found in a male
student's room, Univeruity
Police reported. The exact
weight of the discovered weed
is unknown,

Trash Bash
performance
WHAT: The theatrical per-
cussion group Groove that
combines homemade and
pre-made instruments to cre-
ate sound.
WHO: University Activities
Center
WHEN: 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 P.m.
WHERE: Michigan Theater

UMix late night
WHAT: Final event of the
semester including a showing
of 'Final Destination" as well
as stress ball- and snowglobe-
making activities.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: 10 p.m. - 2 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Amazin' Blue

Parking permit Drugs found on
fraud patient

Final Cut Pro performance

1The TSA accidentally leaked
its 93-page airport screening
manual on the Internet, The
Associated Press reported. The
manual includes details about
special rules for CIA officials
and diplomats as well as details
on the limitations of the airport
x-ray screening machine.
2Corey Woods - better
known Raekwon "the
Chef" from the Wu-Tang
Clan- got his nickname from
boodmates who thought he
was "the marvelous flavor"
>>FOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGES5
3Researchers at the Ger-
man Research Center in
3Heidelberg, found that
an ingredient in beer, xan-
chohumnol, that gives it the
bitter flavor, might someday
help lead to prostate can-
cer prevention, USA Today
reported.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkoniak McaingEditr, etkeeiakapebhigandaity.coo
Jacob Soiloolle ManagingNes E ditor ,miloirpmicbigandaity.oan
SE OR S EDITORS.: aonon,, O.ianeman, , eor Ceo6, J enna
ssoseye Sas oen Soi OrOlse2~, en010~~50
RoeriSoave EditoilagetEditor coaepihigandaity.eon
ASSISTATEIRA A Gneoo nEsuEDITORS:nEnma eszke,MatthewnShutter
Andy Reid ManagingSportccEditor rid@nicbigandoity.coe
uSENOuPOuTSuEIO:Nole Asiuerc,, Mike o enstin, Ia~ n ,u
ASSITAN SPRTS DITRS:MarkBuns, Cha0ntelJennig,uisn uncai,nRyan
Daid Wanik. mancdngAtstEditor waotnhls@eihigandaity.con
Zachary Meisner and ehotopmichigandaihrooe
tliftReeder Maeagnmoto Editors
Angela chih and dein@michigondaily.oon
MaureenlStych ManagingoDecigonEditons
Jessica Vosgerchian maazcinetEditr o ogerhiaopebhigandaity.oe
Katherine Mitchell CopyoChief eitceebet@ehhigandaity.coe,
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie JozwiakSales Manager
Ryan Bosioski Clasiued Manaer
Ben English ProductionoMancger
Alison Santacrea LLayoutManagen
Vivian Lee Fioanoe Manager
Brittany MoralesCicuatonoManaer
Brad Wiley Project Coondioator
Theo:5ooga aiy (ISN O4-96subisnu~hri oaynlssgh tdayuiuneohefaaIndwinter
tcxosby sadcetcatthrUniverscenfMchigan. necpy iauaalreeof cargolreaers;
Additinalcopiesmaybe pkedup anheDail'hc r $*ttSubscn all teem, s5Oiinil
Septeerva U..alar $110: ner em(anuarythrog i)ist115,xyerlonetmbr
through Apri)is $195. Unesy aiiteareujecttoa redcubcriptorate. O-capus
sbitohns for f:alltrr$35.Suscrptinsuns e preaidThe ichigan Daly saebeof
The Assciated Pessad TheoAsoatedCllegate ressc.

*I

WHERE: Lot NW-l
WHEN: Tuesday at 11:15 am.
WHAT: A male student
obtained a parking permit for
the Northwood Community
Housing parking lot from
a friend who let him use it,
University Polite reported.

WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Wednesday at about
10:30 a.m.
WHAT: A male patient was
found with a substance sus-
pected tu be heroin, University
Police reported.

WOrxsop
WHAT: A training session
covering advanced features
and tools as well as export-
ing to DVD applicationos like
iDVD and DVD Studio Pro.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: SaturdayI pm. - 5p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Cernter
(Media Union),

WHAT: The oldest coed
a capella group on campus
performs its winter concert.
WHO: University Activities
Center
WHEN: 8:00 to 10:00 p.m.
WHERE: Rackhiam
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com

MORE ONLINE
Loe Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandally.com/blogs/the wine

Luoking for something more added. 'Prufessore Vatanti wuld've liberty, thinking oif iding in a closet for the jst about every option out there,
authicothIlant local faorte lpia beeo prouduf me. Or aybe I 'lDid e eat too many rest of ito life hoping to be forgotno said National Greek Boar
Earo, the group had decided to should say mould've beo feiro di Dorioes? Maybe. Throw a ltte and never foud. Presiden, ery Boggin. "Then
ADVER TI S ING ventr out and try a nes place til." Fribee arond? Sre. But teacers swee only about 18,000 posibl
C A ST XCd SProf more Va'- ti rfsd t deocrve nto have a little futo too. Ad letter combinations to begin with, son
CLASS TAKES ~~~to non like ito hurt ayoe" said the ______________ yoo ad to know it was coming."
6NL W F R u ye- r-olcl Finmtn. "Ito fot, I The news centainly leftth
mk i the sudeth should be thank- XE Greek Sysem in a stoe of trmoil
AS LIE T I wo asnotver the next oay as ruru beg to fly immediately
A~~~ loal llgias !JD, I just gave evryoc AsS S E Some sggeted a move t a 4-Itle
tkng on the lawa. I think it worked in ther S S E system, while othrs questioned wy
enielam firm The RUNNING OUT it always had 1o be Greek. "I thik
spedin ttctr1hile sdents are demanding Eonglish is a penty good Ianguage,
spendngateir s I s-'fterNo no word yet on hw OF LETTER said De ra oogarden. "I meao,
iT 'I : . Uited States, nota
" i n iccount.
creative hlp arou . v -.re o W
me really look frw / / ..<UY AC
their ideas and work - ,,talgt
thmwith lea? ...........
don't maoter and bai-
water it down unti .
funny, not reatts
rottnd of idt- cs
drownoed ih .dAeb - -
dead -
Oppo
soed
C
libel.
nUMVI TO SGME (67463)
GT ET 1 ANBACK W E WIP
IT ET EXTRA CAS 4V--1 0"1:1
HEI U OUR TR1I%
1t w1 hrsday L ~ c w l I4 ieti
fSTtUI i w teeans before the bg exantelt
R.E 1 1 z momt nt of my itt.Karl Wttscy aJy Lnsobaugh's otfic et
fred of aooy's,rcaleu.-It was 5 A wer'lProtcusor R Poh 'v c r , E, o on..
ORT E R PISTAU like we tine-warped itio Italy (r 0 C~tiearo's. Veec %was ,be'ttmc agitat d onfiooted 1b
RANTstmthing. Tb' waitr came over eveyone dotrito the last-mnuote Book o sn woW rh more.
RA Tand statd talkiog itt It-lhoof Ut --- qust sion frny Apprnlyy, tilgat- alteration enu hat ivolv,
what? I had o idea wlat to do." i..seeral bltwsu toe e- d one

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 11, 2009 -- 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, December 11, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DUNNELLON, Fla.
Woman accused of
hitting man in the
head with raw steak
A 53-year-old was arrested after
allegedly hitting a man in the head
witharawsteak.AccordingtoaMar-
ionCountySheriff'sOfficereport,the
man told deputies Elsie Egan repeat-
edly hit him with the uncooked meat
and slapped his face after he refused
-a piece of sliced bread. The man said
he wanted a bread roll.
Egan denied hitting the man with
the steak but did admit to slapping
him, saying she did it "so that he
could learn."
The man told deputies that Egan
washislive-ingirlfriend. He declined
medical assistance.
Egan was charged with abuse
of a disabled adult. According to
online records, she has been released
on $2,500 bond and is scheduled
to appear in court in January. It's
unclear if she has an attorney.
COUNCIL BLUFFS, lowa.
Iowa man allegedly
assaults wife over
snow shoveling
Police arrested a man who alleg-
edly assaulted his wife when she
refused to help him shovel snow.
Officers said they went to the resi-
dence early Wednesday afternoon
after the 44-year-old woman said
her husband struck her in the head
with his chest and attempted to pull
her out of the house.
The woman complained of pain in
her head and leg, but refused medi-
cal treatment. She said she had been
quarreling with her 45-year-old hus-
band because he had accused her of
being lazy around the house.
The husband allegedly admitted
to quarreling with his wife and put-
ting his hands on her. He was arrest-
ed on suspicion of domestic abuse.
BIRMINGHAM, Mich.
Tim Allen makes

CODE
From Page 1
of three select routes in order to
be properly considered. But other
campus leaders said that the pro-
posal is still under consideration
and no further action needs to be
taken because MSA's vote had no
bearing on the process.
On Tuesday, prior to the MSA's
decision to withdraw its support
for the proposal, Vice President for
Student Affairs E. Royster Harper
said the proposal was initially
submitted through MSA because
the proposal's authors wanted to
include student input in the pro-
cess.
However, in a phone interview
last night, University spokes-
woman Kelly Cunningham said
the President's Advisory Commis-
sion on Women's Issues could, if it
so chooses, resubmit the proposed
amendment through the Senate
Assembly or through an executive
officer for reconsideration.
"There are three different ways a
proposal can come forward: either
through MSA, through SACUA or
through the executive officers,"
Cunningham said. "Now that MSA
has chosen not to move forward,
the proponents of this proposal can
approach SACUA or the executive
officers to move it forward to the
president."
The Office of Student Conflict
Resolution's website - which out-
lines the process for revising the
Statement - details that all pro-
posed amendments must have been
submitted by a Nov. 2 deadline to
be considered in this round of revi-
sions.
Despite the deadline, Cunning-
ham - who cited a conversation
with a representative from the
University's Office of the General
Counsel - said though the Nov. 2
deadline for submission of propos-
als was established as a guideline,
the advisory commission would be
allowed to resubmit its proposed
amendment.
"The deadline was created by
(Student Relations Advisory Com-
mittee) to help them manage their
review process, but it's not part of
the Statement process and it's not
a binding deadline on the process,"
Cunningham said.

Asked whether other groups proposal at Tuesday's meeting
would also be allowed to break when it revoked its support for the
the internal deadline and submit original proposal. O bam a defends
proposals, Cunningham said she MSA President Abhishek Mah-
believed they could. anti wrote in an e-mail interview
Cunningham said she wasn't that he thought MSA representa-
sure whether the amendment's tiveswouldbereceptiveto arevised w ar at N ob el
supporters would try to resubmit amendment that would limit the
the proposal or whether, if they opt number of violations in which pre-
to do that, doingso would delay the ponderance of evidence would be
process of reviewing other propos- used.
als. "Indebate,thepointwas brought
. Beth Sullivan, a senior associ- up that, though many representa-
ate for advocacy and policy in the tives support the preponderance President says war Obama, in the midst of the cer-
Centerforthe Education ofWomen of evidence in sexual assault and emony, said of his troops in
and a member on the President's stalking cases, it was not appropri- efforts needed in Afghanistan: "Some will kill.
Advisory Commission on Women's ate for that language to arbiter all Some will be killed."
Issues, said in an interview last forms of conflict," Mahanti wrote. times of 'moral He lauded Mohandas Gan-
night that she had received con- "I do believe MSA would consider a . , dhi and Martin Luther King Jr.,
flicting information about the pro- revised proposal lowering the stan- necessiy' preachers of nonviolent action.
posal from the office ofthe General dard of evidence in sexual assault But he added, "A nonviolent
Counsel. and stalking cases." OSLO (AP) - Newly enshrined movement could not have halted
Sullivan said that earlier in the Mahanti addedthathe believed a among the world's great peace- Hitler's armies. Negotiations can-
week an attorney in the Office of revised proposal wasn't introduced makers, President Barack Obama not convince al-Qaida's leaders to
the General Counsel had told her at Tuesday's meeting because MSA offered a striking defense of war. lay down their arms."
that because MSA had already sub- does not act without first consult- Eleven months into his presi- "To say that force is sometimes
mitted the proposal, MSA's recent ing with the student population on dency, a fresh Obama doctrine. necessary is not a call to cynicism,
vote to withdraw support would campus. Evil must be vigorously it is a recognition of history."
not affect the proposal's consider- "It may not have been in the best opposed, he declared as he The president laid out circum-
ation. interests of students to haphaz- accepted the Nobel Peace Prize stances in which war is justified -
Sullivan said given the new ardly present a revised proposal at on Thursday. At the same time, in self-defense, to come to the aid
information, she wasn't sure what Tuesday's meeting without proper he made an impassioned case of an invaded nation, on humani-
would happen with the proposal. vetting from the greater University for building a "just and lasting tarian grounds such as when civil-
"If we have to go back and have (community)," Mahanti wrote. peace." ians are slaughtered by their own
another sort of formal proposal Six other amendments are cur- "I face the world as it is, and government.
going through MSA or another rently under review by the Student cannot stand idle in the face of At the same time, he also
channel, then I guess that's our Relations Advisory Committee. threat' to the American people," stressed a need to fight war
next step," Sullivan said. The committee is expected to sub- Obama told his audience in Oslo's according to "rules of conduct"
She added, "I'm thinkingthat we mit their recommendations to the soaring City Hall. "For make no that reject torture, the murder of
probably would not go through the office of the General Counsel for mistake: Evil does exist in the innocents and other atrocities.
executive officers or the Senate." review in February. world." "We lose ourselves when we
Sullivan said she believed it After reviewing the proposals, Pronouncing himself humbled compromise the very ideals that
would be most likely that a revised the office of the General Counsel by such an honor so early in "my we fight to defend," he said. "And
proposal from MSA would be pur- will forward the proposals to Uni- labors on the world stage," Obama we honor those ideals by uphold-
sued. versity President Mary Sue Cole- nevertheless turned his Nobel ing them not when it's easy, but
"People can debate about how man, who will make a final decision moment into an unapologetic when it is hard."
representative the student govern- on the proposals in April. Per regu- defense of armed intervention He emphasized a need to
ment really is, but I think it's most lations set forth in the Statement, in times of self defense or moral exhaust alternatives to violence,
likely to be successful if it's submit- Coleman is encouraged to explain necessity. The hawkish message including worldwide sanctions
ted through MSA," Sullivan said. her rationale for adopting or veto- was an inevitable nod to the con- with teeth to confront nations such
"The only way I can see that ing amendment proposals. troversy defining his selection: an as Iran or North Korea that defy
happening is to address the desires Any amendments approved by American president, lauded for international demands. He pushed
of many of the MSA representa- Coleman would go into effect in peace just as he escalates the long, hmselfawayfromGeorgeW.Bush
tives, who said they wanted to see a July, when the University's next costly war in Afghanistan. in defending diplomatic outreach
resolution that would suggestcusing fiscal year begins. It was a jarring moment when that engages even enemies.
preponderance of the evidence
for sexual harassment, stalking
and sexual assault and use clear
and convincing for all the other
violations," she continued. W INTER 2S1S
Sullivan added that she and
other supporters of the proposed
amendment were "upset" that UNIVERSITY
MSA did not put forth a revised
ISCKEY LEAGSUE
21M1 Oak Viatey Dr.
-11 games + playoffs only $2270 ^Arbor4810
-Registration deadline Is Jan. 3rd w/$770 Deposit (734213-M6
latter for $6.99 ($50 dscoun-if all paymetsare made In fll and on-- me
-Season runs January 10th through April 18th (including playoffs) No games 1/17,2/28, & 4/4/10
7 /ke 1Oek 10-CL -Games are Sundays with start times between 9:30 pm & 11:35 pm
-All teams MUST have matching jerseys with no duplicate numbers.
es Start At $1(Ityrteamneedareaonably,icedsetf jerseys cntactShawn @ex. 2431
Ma . A -All players must be USA Hockey Registered www.usahockeygstration.com ($5sannualfee

trip back home to
preview new film

i
I

Dozens of fans from Tim Allen's
home state of Michigan were treaed
to a unique twofer Thursday night.
The 56-year-old actor gave them
20 minutes ofstandup comedy ahead
of a special screening of his directo-
rial debut, "Crazy on the outside."
It all took place at a movie theater
intheDetroit suburb ofBirmingham,
not far from Allen's boyhood home.
Family and friends were in atten-
dance, something Allen both appre-
ciated and (jokingly) dreaded.
"I'll have to wake them up several
times," he told The Associated Press
in an interview ahead of his perfor-
mance.
Allen worked foryears in standup
before hitting it big with the top-
rated, Michigan-set sitcom "Home
Improvement" and the "Toy Story"
and "Santa Clause" films.
Butforhisnewfilm, he decided to
step behind the camera, a move he
says he really liked.
"The directing was out of sight,"
he said. "I really worked hard to
make (the movie) special."
"Crazy on the outside," a comedy
that stars Allen, Sigourney Weaver,
Ray Liotta, Julie Bowen and Kelsey
Grammer, opens Jan. 8.
"If you love it, tell everybody," he
told the audience before the screen-
ing. "If you don't like it, tell every-
body that it's the new Tom Hanks
movie."
BEIJING
Suspects detained
over tainted milk
Police in China have detained
three people suspected of selling
tons of milk powder tainted with an
industrial chemical, ayear after more
than 300,000 children were sickened
in amassive milksafetyscandal.
The general manager of the
Shaanxi Jinqiao Dairy Co. in north-
ern Shaanxi province and two
employees were detained Dec. 2
and accused of producing and sell-
ing toxic food, the state-run Xinhua
News Agency reported Thursday.
China late last month executed
a dairy farmer and a milk salesman
for their roles in last year's scandal,
in which milk powder tainted with
the industrial chemical melamine
killed at least six children and sick-
ened hundreds of thousands of oth-
ers with kidney stones and kidney
failure.
It was one of the country's worst
food safety crises, and families con-
tinue to fight for compensation from
the dairy companies involved.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

All Day Fish Fry P
Domestic Bottl

310 aynrd t.~oodTo Go 734.995.O100~Nfxt tothf Maynard Parking Struoturfl
u cIP YI v iv 1n UIL-

SPACE IS LIMITED. REGISTER T

oDAYII

For more information or to register your team visit www.a2ice3.com
Beginner through Intermediate Leagues are also available!


Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health professional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:

Presented in conjunction with
the Department of'Theatre & Drama
'0 Lovely Glowworm
1,vGeGrnBerger n
Dec. 10; 8pu,
Dec. 11; 8pn,
Dec. 12; 2pm arid8pm
or Studio One
Walgreen Drama Center,
North Camnpus



4 - Friday, December 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

L74C firIC4igan + ai1y

BELLA SHAH

*I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Right climate for clange
Congress must pass greenhouse gas emissions regulations
or weeks, environmental activists have been eagerly await-
ing the upcoming United Nations Climate Conference in
Copenhagen and hoping that at the conference, the United
States will take a firm stance on greenhouse gas emissions. As the
second-largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world, the United
States is currently failing its obligation to protect the environment.
But on Monday, the Environmental Protection Agency made a land-
mark decision that designates greenhouse gases as a threat to public
health - a step deemed necessary by the Supreme Court in order
for the EPA to regulate emissions. With the whole world watching,
President Barack Obama should pledge to get serious on climate
change, and Congress should follow his words with actions.

Yep, that's exactly (freshman)
whatfinals are like
)n the brightside, you
only have 7 more
semesters to go

The definition of success

or most of my life, I've had a
mild obsession with excep-
tional things like great litera-
ture, Jimi Hendrix
albums, cham-
pion athletes and
people who are
in love with what
they do. Since I
was a kindergart-
ner, I've also had
a less mild obses-
sion with trying
to be exceptional BRIAN
myself. I frequent- FLAHERTY
ly argued with my
parents when they
tried to tell me
that it was okay to get a "B" once in
a while, because I thought I could do
better. Going into my last semester
at the University, I still think "fail-
ure" when I see any sub- "A" letter
on my Wolverine Access transcript.
It's not surprising, then, that I want
an exceptional career. And I'm not
special in that regard. Most students
share my goal.
After several semesters being sur-
rounded by smart, ambitious Busi-
ness School students, I've noticed
that there are striking differences
in the ways people define an excep-
tional career. And the way people
define success can have a big impact,
not only on decisions about their first
jobs, but also how much they achieve
and happy they are in their careers.
As it is commonly used, the word
"success" is sometimes synonymous
with another word - "winning." Suc-
cess is beating the other guy and get-
ting the big salary. Success is what
happens when other people think
you're a success or when you can con-
vince them of it.
As a junior, I attended a recruiting

event for the Boston ConsultingGroup.
Hardly ten words were out of the BCG
representative's mouth before he was
compelled to announce that he was a
partner at the firm and that he'd gotten
his MBA at Harvard. He then delivered
a presentation that was fixated on his
firm's corporate mantra: "We're Win-
ning." Some of my sharpest classmates
ate it up. High achievers who knew
little about -BCG Consulting before
they entered the B-School competed
intensely to land one of the select open-
ings there.
They aren't alone. I know of many
students who are competing for or have
accepted jobs that are considered pres-
tigious. Getting a job at a top-ranked
employer is a lot like getting an "A+".
It's a signal that someone performed
exceptionally. The money is good. It
elevates social status. The addition to
one's r6sum6 opens career options. It's
a good choice for some people.
But what surprises me is that most
of my peers I've heard from don't
intend to keep those prestigious jobs
forlong. In tenyears, theymightwant
to be an entrepreneur, a restaurant
owner, a social activist or someone
who works internationally, but they
certainly don't express any wish to
still be working long hours as a high-
profile banker or consultant.
If a recruiter held a gun to my head
and told me to accept a job like that,
I like to think I'd still say "no." One
reason is that a person's first job after
college sets the tone for their career.
I don't mean that a graduate's first job
commits them to a particular career.
It doesn't. In fact, the average Ameri-
can switches careers three times, and
many do it far more frequently than
that. What I mean is this: Ifa person
puts off doing what they really want
to do and takes a job that's socially

accepted, that's what the person, in
all likelihood, will continue to do.
That's precisely what happens to
people in many cases. When people
treat a job as a means to an end, they
often forget what the end was. And the
pressure can be intense. I am curious
to know what Jeffrey Skilling's career
goals were before he went to Harvard
Business School, joined a prestigious
consulting firm, made partner and left
to engineer massive accounting fraud
at Enron. It's all too easy for gradu-
ates to get bogged down in day-to-day
tasks, the typical career path of the
profession, supporting a family and fit-
ting into their social role.
Students: Don't

forget to love
what you do.

In the 2007 U.S. Supreme Court case
Massachusetts v, EPA, the court ruled that
the EPA should declare greenhouse gasses
a threat to public health before it regulates
their emission. While the EPA officially
made this designation earlier this week,
Obama has reassured members of Con-
gress that the EPA will take no immediate
regulatory action without new legislation.
This comesadespite assurances to the inter-
national community that U.S. emissions
will be reduced 17 percent by 2020.
This move to reclassify emissions as
harmful was long overdue, and it's about
time the EPA made it. Whether or not
the EPA actually takes the next step and
directly regulates emissions - which
would likely prompt lawsuits and court
cases -the EPA's designation should send a
message to lawmakers: Get moving before
the EPA does your job for you. Legislation
that would regulate emissions by creating a
"cap-and-trade" system was passed by the
House of Representatives on June 26, but
has since stalled in the Senate. Delaying on
this issue is unacceptable, and Congress
should get an emissions bill to Obama's
desk as soon as possible.
Regulating emissions is as critical as
ever. There is near certain evidence now
that humans are contributing to a build-
up of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere,
which raises temperatures and melts polar

ice. This results in higher sea levels and
regional climate changes that will damage
the agriculture industry, causes extinc-
tions of species and disrupt water resourc-
es. In the long run, fixing these problems
or at least mitigating these consequences
will be difficult - in some cases, impos-
sible - without a concerted effort to fight
climate change now.
But America's approach to climate
change has been wholly inadequate com-
pared to the rest of the developed world.
In the past, the United States has avoided
international agreements arguing that it
would wait for commitments from China,
the nation that produces the most green-
house gas emissions of any in the world.
U.S. leaders fear that China will gain a
decisive economic advantage if the Unit-
ed States regulates emissions but China
doesn't. But this is backward logic - the
United States should be taking a tough
stance on climate change in hopes of per-
suading other nations to adopt similar
positions. Anything short of that is a dis-
grace.
The upcoming conference in Copenha-
gen is a good place to start. Obama should
let the world know that the United States is
serious about confronting climate change.
And Congress should echo his sentiments
by getting a bill that regulates emissions to
his desk.

i

As for me, I would count my career
as a success if and only if I love what
I'm doing, think it's important and
can perform it well. Undermy defini-
tion of success, I can start being suc-
cessful immediately after college, but
I can't be successful in a job if it's only
a means to an end. Trying to do what
you want immediately and over other
options can be a risk, to be sure. But
as relief workers, entrepreneurs, suc-
cessful artists, Warren Buffett (the
second richest man in the world) and
other people who are exceptionally
good at what they do would likely tell
you, the risk is well worth it.
-Brian Flaherty is an
associate page editor. He can be
reached at bfla@umich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
KYLE SUMMERS
Getting involved in MSA

9l

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca,
Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

COLLEGE DEMOCRATS
Stop the health care stall

As our nation contemplates the potential
impact of the most important health care leg-
islation ever to grace the chambers of Capitol
Hill, many can't help but wonder what's taking
so long.
As with all major legislative action, the
struggle for health insurance reform has gen-
erated controversy as it progresses through
each stage of consideration. The proposed
reform would affect the entire health care sec-
tor and the lives of millions of Americans, so
it's important that the legislation come to frui-
tion through healthy, vigorous debate.
And while the debate has been vigorous, the
tactics of Republican senators have been any-
thing but healthy. For the past several months,
they have schemed ways to lock down the Sen-
ate with procedural technicalities rather than
address the legislation based on its merits.
Take, for instance, the treatment of hard
quorum calls. Senate rules require a majority
of senators to be present on the floor before
business can proceed. This rule is often waived
by unanimous consent, but ifa single member
objects, then the presiding officer must check
attendance by reading off all 100 names of the
senatorial body. Since the assembly routinely
goes into adjournment, Republican senators
can use this tool to postpone discussion several
times per day.
In addition, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) has
threatened to force Senate clerks to read aloud
the reform bill in its entirety to what will surely
be an empty chamber.
one of the most abused procedures thus far
in the health care debate has been the amend-
ment process. Senators can call for each pro-
posalto be divided up into independent debates
and votes, which unnecessarily increases the
amount of time for each section to pass on
the floor. Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH) explicitly
encourages his fellow Republicans to propose
"an unlimited number of amendments - ger-
mane or non-germane - on any subject" that
would force the Senate to debate and then vote
on a series of irrelevant alterations that are
protected from compromise by the rules of

unanimous consent. This is known as a filibus-
ter by amendment because it has the potential
to lengthen debate indefinitely with no dis-
cernible benefit.
And after months of squabbling over frivo-
lous amendments, points of order and issues of
Senate procedure, the Senate rules allow the
Republican leadership to invoke the procedur-
al filibuster and saddle Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid (D-NV) with the responsibility to
find a three-fifths majority (60 votes) in favor
of the bill.
In short, Senate Republicans have geared up
to do anything and everything in their power
to prevent health insurance reform from com-
ing to an up-or-down vote. When the challenge
at hand is designing a piece of legislation that
will provide improved health insurance cov-
erage for millions of uninsured Americans,
you would think that our Republican senators
would take a more proactive role in the debate.
For all their talk about defending the middle
class, it is puzzling that the Republicans have
chosen to impede health insurance reform and
ignore the millions of Americans who are suffer-
ing under the broken health care system. Since
2000, the cost of health insurance has doubled,
and medical problems remain a leading cause of
personal bankruptcy. These issues will not sim-
ply disappear. Health insurance reform is needed
to ensure that hard-working Americans no lon-
ger have to decide between maintaining financial
security or seeking medical care.
We are in favor of a vigorous public debate
both on and off the Senate floor. Reform is
critical to the long-term fiscal stability of our
country and must be crafted thoughtfully.
Nonconstructive obstruction, however, should
not be part of the process. It is our sincere hope
that the Senate is able to overcome these pro-
cedural challenges and pass comprehensive
health insurance reform for the American
people.
This viewpoint was written by Robert
Bowen and Devin Parsons on behalf of the
University's chapter of the College Democrats.

As a representative-elect for the College of Engineer-
ing - specifically, one who ran as an independent - I'd
like to share my reaction to Alex Schiff's recent viewpoint
regarding the Michigan Student Assembly. (Hey MSA,
make yourselfmatter, 12/03/2009).
I believe it can be generally agreed that the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict is an issue that isn't directly relevant
to MSA. MSA is a place to serve the student body within
the context of the University. There are many interna-
tional issues that our world faces today, and for MSA to
respond with a position or action to some of them would
arguably not be an efficient use of the assembly's efforts.
Student organizations have every right to lobby state and
federal legislative bodies to action, and MSA has the duty
to defend that right, but it seems unreasonable for the
student government to tackle these itself. On this topic,
I agree with Schiff that such issues are largely irrelevant
to the assembly.
Although Schiff continues to provide legitimate con-
cerns, my agreement with his argument may end with his
stance on the aforementioned. To reduce MSA to nothing
"more than a glorified middle school student council with
fancy websites" is rather extreme. MSA controls a bud-
get that is within hundreds of thousands of dollars. I'd be
interested to learn about any middle school student coun-
cil commandingsuch funds. Furthermore, MSA's website
could be much "fancier." The functionality and resources
it provides to students should be improved.
It may be that many students are apathetic to MSA.
I find this to be unfortunate, however legitimate it may
be. Perhaps if students cared more, things would actu-
ally change. Democratic governments do not function
well without participation from their constituents. Schiff
must have come from one large high school for his "high
school class president" election to garnish as many votes
as the MSA election did. Yet the point is understood - the
student turnout is terribly low.
This may result, in large part, from the great amount
of ignorance students have when it comes to MSA. I have
encountered many individuals who don't know what the
acronym stands for, let alone what the assembly does. I
believe this is largely the fault of the assembly for not
educating students about their student government. One

possible solution is to establish some presence during ori-
entation to introduce students to MSA.
I may have the most contention with Schiff's argu-
ment against both the party system and independent
candidates. I didn't seek to be a party candidate because
I didn't feel like the parties were very highly regarded
by students, nor was I very educated on what the parties
stood for and their track records. Therefore, I chose to
be an independent. To compare independent candidates
to "emo kids in high school that told you they don't have
a label" is a bit ridiculous. I ran on a platform. I am an
independentbecause I wanted to represent myself and my
specific views - not that those views are uncommon.
The problems with electing representatives to the
Department of Public Safety Oversight Committee have
been addressed, albeit rather late. It was unjustifiable
to violate state law. However, the reasoning behind the
appointment method - though found to be illegal - is
logical. If the voter turnout for MSA representative elec-
tions is quite low, one can imagine what the numbers may
be for a direct election for the committee. It may simply
be decided by who has more friends. The legitimacy of
one's interest could therefore be an issue; it must be more
than a r6sume booster.
What I believe in comes down to transparency and
accountability. MSA must communicate its proceedings
in a convenient manner to the student body. One positive
change is that WOLV-TV will begin broadcasting MSA
meetings live next semester. The average public turnout
to the meetings is generally quite low, and I hope that
TV coverage will eliminate the excuse that it is conve-
nient to venture to the third floor of the Michigan Union
to watch the meetings. I hope further improvements to
transparency are made through greater communication
and publication of documents. In exchange for the right
to transparency, the student body has the duty to hold
MSA accountable for its actions and to participate more
actively.
I appreciate that Schiff cared enough about MSA to
write a viewpoint. I hope that more students might care
as much.
Kyle Summers is an Engineering freshman.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 11, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomFriday, December 11, 2009 - 5

Saoirse Ronan
gets serious in
'Lovely Bones'
By JENNIFER XU scene. Still, Ronan believes that
Daily Arts Writer the absence of the rape scene does
not detract from the larger picture.
Fresh out of an Oscar nomina- "I think, if anything, it makes it
tion for her role in "Atonement," stronger because I think it's kind
15-year-old Saoirse (pronounced of the easy route to put that kind of
"sir-sha") Ronan has just leapt into scene in," she said.
another dramatic venture. "The "(Rape) can make people too
Lovely Bones," an adaptation of disturbed. If (you) just leave it up
Alice Sebold's best-selling novel, to the audience's imagination, to
is a film directed by Peter Jackson let them think of it for themselves
("Lord of the Rings") about a fam- ... sometimes that can even be
ily's reconciliation with catastro- stronger."
phe following the rape and murder Ronan enjoyed working with
of their teenage daughter Susie Jackson as a director, lauding his-
Salmon. vision for the film and the level of
With her clear, Irish-tinged involvement he had with his actors.
voice, Ronan, who plays Susie, "He's always up and ready to go,
omnisciently narrates the film as and he wasgreatbecause he would
an intermediary between life and ... act through what we were going
death in a sort of post-mortem to do," Ronan said. "He was very
coming-of-age story. hands on."
While the film suggests motifs Jackson's vision for "The Lovely
of mystery, the supernatural, ven- Bones" extends further than over-
geance, family discord and family seeing the film's acting. The film
bonding, Ronan believes that the promises the director's trademark
underlying theme of "The Lovely large-scale visuals, comparable to
Bones" is hope. She asserts that the likes of "Lord of the Rings" and
ultimately the film is about letting "Heavenly Creatures." The trailer
go of the past and moving onward portends amazingly lush heaven
from tragedy, both for Susie's fam- scenes, complete with angel cho-
ily and for herself. ruses and golden fields. Ronan

COURTESY OF ICE H20

Raekwon: Classier than the Cosa Nostra

The Chef cooks

Wu-Tang Clan's Raekwon
talks life, faith and the
origin of his nickname
By SHARON JACOBS
Daily Arts Writer
With a languid voice that glides from one
sentence to the next, Rae-
kwon "the Chef" oozes Raekwon
slicked-back cool even out- te Chef
side the recording studio.
Known within the Wu-Tang Tomorrow at
Clan for his smooth and pre- 9:30 p.m.
cise lyrical imagery, Rae will At the Blind Pig
shed his Wu-Tang lineage for1
a solo job tomorrow night at + $2ficsvet
the Blind Pig.
Rae's 1995 album Only Built 4 Cuban Linx
helped popularize "mafioso rap," a genre in
which romanticized depictions of a glammed-
up gangsta lifestyle recall Italian mobster cul-
ture.
"Cinematic street shit is my chamber," he
explained in a phone interview with the Daily.
"Street life, drug tales, that was my world."
Rae himself is the picture of a mafia under-
boss. Even while doing his own thing, he still
looks out for the rest of the Clan - most of the
songs on his 2009 release Only Built 4 Cuban
Linx Pt.II feature Wu-Tang affiliates.
Over the years, the Wu-Tang Clan has
attracted a huge cult following, with five

group albums released over roughly 15 years,
numerous solo albums from its members and
even an official print guide to the group ("The
Wu-Tang Manual").
An entire mythology has been built around
Wu-Tang's nine members, beginning with
their enigmatic nicknames.
Popular legend has Raekwon the Chef get-
ting his moniker from an alleged knack for
cooking up cocaine, but the Chef himself begs
to differ.
"When we actually got together and said
'Yo, we gonna become a crew and this is my
name, this is your name' ... (the other mem-
bers) gave me 'The Chef' because they felt like
I was the marvelous flavor, like, 'nuff said,"
said Rae, born Corey Woods.
"'Raekwon' came from part of the Nation
of Islam - The 'Five Percent Nation'- when I
was a young kid."
Though he's not connected with the Nation
of Islam, Raekwon recently became a Muslim.
He described his conversion to Islam as more
influential on his world view than his music.
"Allah has given me the power to do what I
do ... but at the same token, I've been doingthis
for a long time, it's my artistry," he said. And
Rae isn't going to change his bragging, swag-
gering lines just because he's "pure now."
As the conversation turned to Cuban Linx
Pt. II, Raekwon asserted that, in the face of a
morphing hip-hop scene, he's "still the same
dude."
"I started working on (Pt. II) almost four
years ago ... I knew that this one had to be clas-

thePig
sic so I didn't want to rush it." Rae was right
to take his time - most critics agree that the
new Cuban Linx fondly recaptures its prede-
cessor's classic gangsta-poetic appeal.
Despite having released four solo albums,
Raekwon seemed nostalgic for the Clan's
golden days.
"When I'm with (Wu-Tang)," he admit-
ted, "I don't really have to think too hard
because I know they're already thinking for
me ... I had to really realize (while making
Cuban Linx Pt. II) tha*I gotta please the fans
and I gotta please Wu-Tang, because I know
how they think ... we all think the same way,
(and) they gonna tell me if I'm not in the right
direction."
The group mentality is unsurprising con-
sidering that a large part of the Wu-Tang Clan
grew up together in Staten Island, New York,
including Raekwon and producer-leader RZA.
"I was just around him in my leisure time
or whatever, but I seen how he wanted it and
he actually really made me want it even more,"
Raekwon said of RZA's "crazy passion" for
making music in their youth.
Cuban Linx Pt. Il is a big step for Rae, who
dispersed production duties for the album
instead of relying wholly.on RZA as usual.
As the interview came to a close, Raekwon
confirmed that the Wu-Tang Clan will release
another group album soon, though he couldn't
say when. Like any good mafioso, Rae puts
family first. Cuban Linx Pt. II ends with a
champagne toast to his Cosa Nostra: "It's the
Wu-Tang, it's our thing, kiss the ring."

"When Susie arrives in the
in-between, she doesn't want to
go forward, which would mean
accepting her death," Ronan said,
in a phone interview.
"She wants to be back on Earth
with her family and she knows
she can't do that. And to get (to
heaven), she has to focus on her
love for her family and not the hate
and vengeance that she has for her
murder."
Ronan had not actually read
the novel during the film's pro-
duction, in part due to the heavy
themes touched upon in the book
(she was only 13 at the time) and in
part due to her desire to interpret
the screenplay the way Jackson
wanted her to. At 15, she has final-
ly gotten a chance to read Sebold's
actual words.
"I absolutely loved it," Ronan
said.
"I felt every emotion possible.
And I think because I had been
through the whole experience
of making the movie and living
through the story, that (helped)
me to really connect with the book,
and to understand the book fully."
Although Jackson makes an
effort to stay faithful to the source
material, there are still inherent
discrepancies between the film
and the book. The novel contains a
very detailed rape scene in which
the murderer (played by Stanley
Tucci of "The Devil Wears Prada"
fame) brutally molests the young
heroine and subsequently dis-
members her in a frozen cornfield.
For the film, Jackson chose to
take the tasteful route of implying
rather than overtly portraying the,

Going for another
Oscar nod.
remembers the process of shooting
these scenes as strange but subse-
quently beautiful.
"It was a little bit surreal at first
because it was all blue screen and
I hadn't worked with that much
blue screen before," Ronan said.
"So, it was sometimes difficult
to try and imagine what it was
going to be like. I saw the movie
a few days ago and it was a lovely
surprise to finally see heaven."
"The Lovely Bones" opens today
in limited release, and critics are
already buzzing about its Oscar
potential. Ronan was nominated
for a Best Supporting Actress
Oscar in 2007 for Joe Wright's
redemptive period piece "Atone-
ment," so she is no stranger to
this level of high-pressure critical
expectation. Still, she tries to keep
everything in perspective.
"To be honest, I try not to think
about awards season at all, espe-
cially when it concerns a movie
that I've made," she said.
"None of the press have actually
seen the movie yet, so it's not fair to
say, but i.t's great that they're put-
ting it at such a high level already."
At the same time, Ronan hopes
that audiences will be receptive to
the film.
"Hopefully it does well. I just
really hope that everyone enjoys
it."

Reitman explores unlikable leads

By TIMOTHY.RABB
Daily Arts Writer
Though a film adaptation is exciting in its
visualization of particularly engaging writ-
ten works, the making of one is encumbered
by unique obstacles. How does one adapt a pre-
existing narrative ina manner that stays true to
the original story while still including one's own
brand of originality?
In Jason Reitman's estimation, the answer is
purely autobiographical.
Jason Reitman, the young writer-director of
"Thank You for Smoking" and director of "Juno,"
divulged the motivation for his new adaptation
in a recent interview. His newest project, "Up
in the Air," is a reworking of a novel by critically
acclaimed writer Walter Kirn. The book follows
a middle-aged "management consultant" named
Ryan Bingham as he travels across the country
by plane, firing the unfortunate employees of the
various companies that have requested his ser-
vices. "Up in the Air" will start screening in wide
release at the end of the month.
Despite Ryan's dreary line of work, the great-
est pleasure he derives from his life is flying.
The close relationship betweenthis love of flight
and screenwriter Jason Reitman's own life gives
presents intimate perspective to the story.
"I started enjoying flights for the same reason
I enjoyed going to movie theaters. It's a chance
to unplug from your normal life," Reitman said.
"You know when you're up in the plane, your
cell phone doesn't work and your closest friend
is this person in 17J and you can have the kind

of conversation with them that you would never
have with someone you knew well. And yes,
I collect miles. I collect miles like crazy ... I've
been on 20 flights in 20 days."
Reitman's oddball enthusiasms - particular-
ly for flying and frequent-flier miles - are closely
related to those of his unlikely protagonistRyan,
sans the illegal prescriptions and illegal women,
of course. Flirting with the fine line between
the real and the fictional is the process by which
an artist can bring about a sense of catharsis in
those who view his work, after all.
What better way to elicit emotion than to
Breathing life into
soulless characters.
show normal people the ways in which the
despair, joy and other emotions found in art par-
allel the emotional ups and downs in their own
lives? In this sense, Reitman is no narcissist -
he's a humble writer of the people and for the
people.
"Because of the economy, I (decided to) cast
real people as the people who lose their jobs in
this movie ... except for a few actors that you're
going to recognize like Zach Galifianakis ("The
Hangover") and J.K. Simmons ("Juno"), these
are people in St. Louis and Detroit who actu-
ally just lost their jobs in real life," Reitman said,
describing the evolution of the screenplay in the

past seven years.
This unlikely approach recollects the unadul-
terated displays of social decay in post-World
War II neo-realist films,, though Reitman's
motivations are far removed from the political
realm. His films are more focused on character
studies of isolation, as can be seen in tobacco
lobbyist Nick Naylor (Aaron Eckhart, "The Dark
Knight") from "Thank You for Smoking," preg-
nant high school student Juno MacGuff (Ellen
Page, "Hard Candy") and Reitman's newest
character, the lonely wanderer Ryan Bingham
(George Clooney, "Burn After Reading").
"I'm obviously attracted, whether I know it or
not, to characters who live in a kind of polarized
world," Reitman said.
"I like these characters because they usually
have avery open-minded point ofviewon some-
thingthat's traditionally (divisive) and they give
me an opportunity to take a fresh look at a sub-
ject that is usually talked out in only one way."
And as for Reitman's next character study?
"If 'Thank You for Smoking' and 'Up in the
Air' were two parts of a trilogy, and I needed my
third angry white guyto fill it in," he said. "After
tobacco lobbyists, corporate termination execu-
tives, what's the third slot? Maybe someone who
works in the clergy."
Future plans aside, one can expect more of
the same from Reitman's observations from "Up
in the Air." It will likely be a glorious amalga-
mation of happiness and despair, acclaim and
stigmatization, laughter and somberness. Less
contrived glitz and garish glamour and more of
life, just the way it is.

Only 15, Saoirse is making serious dramatic waves.

WANT TO TALK TO
FAMOUS PEOPLE?
JOIN DAILY ARTS.

E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.


6- Friday, December 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmspropg/sbcglobaLnet
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
5 BDRM house Avail August 2010:
833 Brown St: $2500/mo. Beautiful
House. Parking and on-site laundry.
Coil Louis at 610-952-5269 or email
looishresknsan?,yohoo.com
! 1 BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
rooms $840-$985.
Available August 27th, 2010.
We offer fully furnished apartment
at no extra cost!
For more info call 734-662-4446 or visit
www.issaproperties.com
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for nest year - NO MONEY
DOWN till 2010. Sign hy 1Dec. it.
All-new, furnished. 2 hlocks from Cen-
tral Campus, all utilities included, per-
person contracts. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
921 PACKARD, Fall '10 3 story, 5
bdrm house for 6. Furnished, 3 full bth,
3 kitchen, ldry, prkg, (734) 272-1320.
! AVAIL. MAY. 2 story duplex. 3
bdrm, I bath. South U. $2100/mo. +
util. Wshr./dryer, prkg. 734-945-2822.
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrmufhouse. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
OPI PROPERTIES
34-663-5609
WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level.
$765/mo, furnished option. Email
infoaissaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
BEAUTIFUL HOMES
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edt1,
www.nancylat.com
6 BDRM HOUSE-Fall '10, Lg.
Bdrms.. 2.5 bath, Furn., Parking,
Lndry, Updated, Nice. 717 S. Division,
$3660/mo. 734-662-1362.
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
1225 White-6 bdrm, $3595/mo
734-564-2125

the
wnea a of
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllcig/yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.cots
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing for 2010. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 for assistance.
I 10 1 CHURCH ST
5 BDRM + 2 BATHS
$2700
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space. f1at'screen
ts, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/-
cool kitch. Low RentS (313) 215-8115.
!!TOO CLOSE TO BE TRUE!! Great
apts for large groups. Well cared for
and close to bus stop near CC Little,
May & Sept. '10 leases. 734-668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com

!ampus realty


NO-MONEY-DOWN
LEASES!
Sign today,
pay nothing 'til
you move in
next fall!
1- to 6-bedroom
luxury units
still available.
734-665-8825
1335 S. University
www.campusrealty.com
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail,
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.assnarborapartment.net
Sep.2010
# Beds Location Rent
6 1122 S.Forest $3200
5 1120 S. Forest $2800
4 715 Catherine $2100
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
***** MAY LEASES*****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May toeAugust
1 edroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8080!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.com
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 Hamilton.
10 BDRM house 217 N. Ingalls.
u-places.com 734.478.2936.
R E ALT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
1021 E. University
916 Sybil

6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard
507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8 br)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S. University (9 br)
1014 Vaughn (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

Up to
ONE MONTH
FREE!
Lease any Apartment from now
until 1-11-loandyou'llhavea
chance to win up to one month free,
1/2 month free, $500 off, $300 off,
$100 off, Flat Screen TVs, Kindles
and more!!!
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour
Call usformore information.
734-761-2680
infoiau-towers.com
536 South Forest
AnnArbor,M148104
Universitytowers-mi.com
7Uni 6
ivrity
a*CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnsshed and parking for 6t$320/mo
+ utilities 734-260-4003
1018 E. UNIVERSITY
4 BDRM + I BATHS
$2400
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*UP TO ONE MONTH FREE for a
Limited time only! Call us for more
details. Were Much Better than the
Dorms! Check us out and get a FREE
Bubble Island drink with any new tour!
We have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments available
for Spring / Fal. Call us at 734-761-
2680 for an appointment.
UniversityTowers-mi.com
3 BDRM FURNISHED. Private deck.
Wshr/dryr. Near campus and Kerry-
town. $1458 + electric. 734-996-8506.
1021 CHURCH ST.
6 BDRM + 2 BATHS
$3400
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful hotme lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband@archrealtyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium

Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
9Cfic ipan Dailp
P RESENT THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandally.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

VARSITY MANAGEMENT
wwvarsitymanagement.com

6 1021 Church
6 541 S. Division
5 1101 Church

$3400
$3200
$2700

625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Forest Terrace
1001 1S. Forest
2-Bedrooms starting at $1295
Rent Includes: heat, water,
furnishings, parking, and
wireless Internet.
Large enough for 3 or 4
people too!
All apts have new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, bathroom
vanities with double sinks, and
new furniture. Our standards
are higher than most!
2-BEDROOMS: 2 minute walk to the
Business or Law Schools, unique lay-
outs in spacious apts, new kitchens w/
dishwashers, heat, water, underground
parking included.
www.varsitymanagement.com
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 .Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
3-BEDROOMS: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing roosms w/ new furniture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking mcl. Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.

4 1018 E. University $2400
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
tise business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
NEWER-FURNISHED-6-BDRM
APTS. & ROOMS IN A 6 BDRM
APT. - WALK TO CENTRAL CAM-
PUS$665/BORM-INCLUOES TV &
CLEANING (734) 418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
541 Sn DIVISION
6 BDRM + 2 BATHS
$3200
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.


May 2010
Houses Available
Beds Location Rent


g jf
S
,>

S$199 MOVES YOU IN

tj

Free Rent until Feb. 1st
3 Bedrooms from $799
Call Sun Homes at 888-993-6851
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
1 www.sciofarms.com Offer Expires
12/31/0

4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths, avail on central campus. 741-9300
fully furnished and much more! 741- www.annarborapartments.net
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
HUGE 4-BEDROOMS: hardwood AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
floors, 10ft ceilings, & fireplaces in a INES! Your attention please!
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Bums Park. Fleat, water, parking & fur- Campus Management, Inc. invites you
nissings incladed. Call Varsity Man- to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
agement (734) 668-1100. local wehsite for the hest selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
cenira campus. Lo of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller availahle* tool All are
Luxurious 6 Bedroom, attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
2 Bath, Bi - Level Apartment clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
chedule a personal showing with our
616 Monroe D rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
GDH

9
4

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
14Young ones
5 Court smash
10 Epitaph word
14 Attending to the
assignment
15 "Alas"
16 Biblical twin
17 Check out
18 Barely came out
an top
20 How some bonds
are bought
22 John abroad
23 Irked
24 Overlytaxing
27 Some dashes
28 Farm cry
29 Group with a lot
of hits?
38 Series upener?
31 Nu losger gray,
say
33 "Kidnapped"
author's
monogram
35 Big cheese
37 Baseball coups,
and a hintato the
homophonic
relationship in the
sequence of first
words in 18-, 24-,
54- and 61-
Across
41 Prefix wth nenter
:42 Song syllable
43 Youmight make
one with a
Hamilton Beach
DrinkMaster
46 Classical dance
gp.
49 Balls:
chumlate cake
snacks
51 Musician Brian
53 Caligula's card
masnt?
54 Temporarily
580 Acille-:
hacked ship
59 Isp keague
nickname
60 o spendthrift
61 Reallyenjoyed
something
64 Lansbury
Broadway role
08 Doule
0 Soffleece
67 Hot times in Paris
68 Winged god
69 Another name for
hopscotch

70 Kerry and Kirk of
Mass., e.g.
DOWN
1 Found
2 Gray topic
3 inclined (to)
4 Iron horse power
5 Vienna-to-Rome
dir.
6 Place to find
cues
7 Playground
comeback
8 Comics
explosion
9 Joseph of ice
cream fame
10 Russian
reuvoluionary
11 She had atryst
with Tristan
12 Art supporters
13 Soft leathers
19 Mecca's
peninsula
21 Obstacle
25 Semiautomatic
nifle
26 It's reserved for
ones in a pool
32 Buck's mate
34 Match unit
36 British novelist
Barbara __

38 Result 48 Honest with
39 Coverage 50 Opera with the
charges aria "Qui trarr6f
40 Show great Cassio"
anticipation, 52 Baby docs
informally 55 Takes a shot
44 They can be at
offensive 56 ease
45 Junglefemale 57 Chair designer
46 Burning Charles
47 Traditional 62 Matterhorn,
barbershop e.g-
quartet hat 63 Shell out
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

Spacious Penthouse with
all new amenities including
marble bathrooms, central air
conditioning, granite kitchens with
2 refrigerators, and laundry and
parking on site.
Campus Realty
1335 South University
Ann Arbor MI 48104
Tel: (734) 665-8825

" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for enteraining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
* Close to CCRB
SExercise Room, Rec. Room
Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C B 741-9300
www-annarborapartmlents.net

2471

s

54
58~
so1

0

By Mark Feldman t
(c)2Qt19 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

12/11/09



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 11, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, Decemher U, 2009 - 7

REPORT
From Page 1
other options at the University
when it comes to reporting sex-
ual assault. Jennifer Schrage,
director of the Office of Student
Conflict Resolution, said she
and her staff work closely with
experts on campus to under-
stand what survivors go through
in a sexual assault to make the
reporting process as open as
possible.
OSCR and the Sexual Assault
Prevention Awareness Center
have recently created a toolkit to
make reporting an assault easier
and dispel the cover-up culture.
The toolkit also gives guidance
to those working with the vic-
tim to make sure they handle the
issue in a sensitive manner.
Schrage said the office pro-
vides victims with all their
options as soon as they enter the
office and before the victim tells
them anything to avoid creating

a "re-victimizing experience for
the survivor."
"We really want this particu-
lar student to be in the driver's
seat because of what may have
occurred. It's important for them
to feel empowered and help them
make the choices right for them,"
she said.
Schrage said OSCR's process
is a leader in the field.
"I'm getting calls from all over
the country for information on
how we do our work in general,"
she said.
Schrage added that though
the University faces the same
"conundrums" when it comes
to these issues as many other
institutions do, by working with
SAPAC and other organiza-
tions they hope University stu-
dents will feel more comfortable
reporting sexual assaults.
"We know that, in the general
population, one in four students
are targeted with sexual vio-
lence but only 4 percent go to the
authorities," she said. "These are

very discouraging numbers and
we're doing our best to tip the
scales."
Crosby Modrowski, a SAPAC
student volunteer, said that in
her experience working with
victims she hasn't heard of any
instances of students being
"shushed away" like those men-
tioned in the report.
"U of M's program is actually
really good in terms of efforts to
help in training and prevention,"
she said. "I truly believe that the
University creates policies that
help the survivor do whatever it
is they want."
Modrowski said SAPAC works
together with DPS and OSCR to
help achieve this.
"Sexual assaults happenevery-
where," she said. "If campuses
try to have more progressive
training and helping efforts like
Michigan's, then there will be
more reports and more reports is
ultimately good because it allows
the survivors to get the help they
need."

Student group helps high
schoolers prep for ACT


HAMMER
From Page 1
third motion for a summary dis-
position. The case has yet to go
to trial after its two previous
attempts were both denied by
the court.
"The University is doing
everything it can to, delay and
avoid trial, " Hammer said in an
interview yesterday.
He told the Daily that the Uni-
versity's third attempt to get the
case dismissed was originally
scheduled for December 2007
and then again in March 2008.
"What we're going to argue
is that they've filed the motion
twice before and it's been reject-
ed twice before," Hammer said.

"The appropriate thing is to
schedule a trial."
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald wrote in an e-mail
interview that the hearing will
evaluate the University's request
for dismissal of Hammer's dis-
crimination claim. He wasunable
to comment on the logistics of
the University's legal strategy.
"The U-M remains commit-
ted to inclusiveness and non-
discrimination for all members
of the university community,"
Fitzgerald wrote.
If the University's appeal is
denied, the case will go to trial, at
which point the University could
appeal again, further delaying
the judicial process.
"We really hope to geta trial in
the spring," Hammer said. "And

if there's any justice at all, that's
what would take place."
Prolonging the trial has come
at a cost for the University,
though. An article published in
2007 on Bloomberg.com report-
ed that, as of Nov. 20 of that
year, the University had already
spent $208,236 on the case.
The information was obtained
through the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act.
Hammer said this figure has
likely gone up in the last two
years, and the University could
be spending as much as $300,000
just to prevent a trial.
"It's not only squandering
money," Hammer said. "The
more they delay, the worse they
look because it looks like they're
hiding something."

From Page 1
method of learning basic math that
you needed to get into college and
do well on the ACT."
Because of the success Universi-
ty students have had in the college
process and their previous success
on standardized tests, Chanowski
said he believed that University
students could give back by help-
ing disadvantaged youth do just
as well in their application pro-
cesses.
Letters to Success is different
from many of the other student
organizations on campus. Cha-
nowski said there won't be a table
for the group at this year's Fes-
tifall and donors to the program
privately fund the group. Typical-
ly, the cost for a student to take a
prep course or hire a tutor to study
for the ACT is around $2,000.
But Chanowski said his group is
tutoring 40 students for a total of
$4,000.
There is also an application pro-
cess for prospective tutors.
"I think what makes us really
unique is that we are in no way a
rasum6 padder," Chanowski said.
"We screen students in the begin-
ning, there's an application pro-
cess. We don't want anyone who's
coming here just to put that they
helped disadvantaged kids or
helped minorities in getting into
college, we want kids who actu-
ally want to see social justice, who
want to see change before their
eyes and that's why I think we're
so successful."
Chanowski said another fac-
tor that makes the group different
from others on campus is its part-
nership with the School of Edu-
cation. Chanowski worked with
School of Education Dean Debo-
rah Ball and Assistant Dean Henry
Meares to create the program.
Students in the course Educa-
tion 118 can also participate in
the organization and earn extra
credit in the class for their contri-
bution. Every student is also given
an application to join the group as
part of the course materials.
In the future, Letters to Success

may be a required class compo-
nent.
"We're providing an opportuni-
ty that's really a win-win because
the undergraduates are getting a
really direct experience with what
it looks like to try to help some-
body else learn, which is the kind
of thing I want the students to be
learning," Ball said. "At the same
time, they are doing something
that's really useful for the high
school students who wouldn't oth-
erwise have a chance to get that
kind of preparation for college
exams."
In order to qualify for free ACT
tutoring, Willow Run High School
students only need junior stand-
ing and a commitment that they
will attend every weekly tutoring
session. Additionally, if they show
a certain amount of improvement
over the course their tutoring, the
ACT registration fee will be paid
for.
"These are students who don't
have access to any of the things
that a lot of Michigan undergrads
do have access to when they are
taking the SAT or ACT," Ball said.
School of Education junior
Becky Thiel said that she joined
the group because she wanted to
volunteer and thought Letters to
Success "felt like a really fun pro-.
gram."
She said the program makes
it easy for University students
to become ACT tutors by having
accepted students attend an ori-
entation with a Kaplan instructor
and use a Kaplan ACT book as a
curriculum for University students
to follow with their high school
students.
"Inordertobereallyresponsible,
when we have University students
workingwith high school students,
particularly kids who haven't done
well in school and haven't been
served well by schools, we want to
make sure that what they're doing
is really good quality," Ball said.
"We wouldn't want someone going
out and tutoring and then getting
kids mixed up."
Thiel, who also mentored kids
while she was a high school stu-

dent, said watching the improve-
ment of the student she's working
with has only made her more excit-
ed about the program.
"It's been really great to see
him improve, especially in read-
ing comprehension," Thiel said.
"He was struggling with that a
lot in the beginning so just to see
how much he improved just over
eight weeks was really encourag-
ing.
L;ate Brierty, another tutor and
a junior in the Organizational
Studies concentration, said that
her student had improved over
the eight weeks as well. She also
said one of the most important
things about the program was
that the high school students not
only gained a tutor but also acon-
fidant.
"One of the things that's really
great about the program is since
we are seeing the students every
week they have someone they can
go to with questions about ACT
and with general questions about
life as well," she said.
Brierty said because herstudent
has become more confident about
taking the ACT, he's begun consid-
ering'opportunities he wouldn't
have considered before.
"My student said that he wants
to end up going to law school," she
said. "Buthe islookingatschools in
New York now because he's always
wanted to move to New York and
now he feels like he actually could
go to school at one of them. He's.
just a lot more confident about his
ability to go to college."
Ball said that an additional
advantage of the program, aside
from the effects of the tutoring, is
the exposure that the high school
students get to University stu-
dents.
"A side benefit is that students,
a lot of whom may be from fami-
lies where nobody's gone to college
before, have a relationship during
the semester with someone who's
a University of Michigan student
and can begin to imagine them-
selves as somebody who can go to
Michigan or who can go to col-
lege," Ball said.

WANT TO WRITE FOR THE
DAILY'S NEWS SECTION?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com
to get started.

sT U DE14NT tiO S 11G . IN C,
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
* aFully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
I Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com

FALL 20 10 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 5 10 Catherine $3700
7 I1129White St. $3400
6 418 N. State $3600
4 1I1I7 S. Forest $2440

Se pt. 20 0
Large, 2 Story
Apartments
# Beds Location Rent
6 1121 Church $3200
6 543 S. Division #2 $2700
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 1117 Church #1 $2700

CAPPO/DEINCO Copi Properties
734-996-1991 734.663.5609

*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 B. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 B. Madison
721 . Forest
1320 S. University
610 * . Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 BEedrooms:
1330 N. University C i.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 C . University
*Tslly Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Bthernet
uFree heat and water
(At most locations)
6 BIEDROOM, 3 hathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. hetween Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.

NO MONEY DOWN!!! come in to-
day, sign a lease for next year and don't
pay anything until you move in! Things
are renting fast so call today!
Campus Reality 734-665-8825
www.campusreality.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISelIA2.com 734-476-9768
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-41650, No smkgi/no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (leather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
Counter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Availahle May and Fall
2010 665.00-75.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for stout. s
6 sDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1608Geddes, Furnished. 3full
haths. Newly renovated. Carpet
throughout. Free Parking. Free
laundry. Dishwasher. A/C. Call 734-
717-9218.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
ahout a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still he ahle to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 hathrooms, and
plenty of parking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.

7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.icc.coop 734-662-4414.
AMAZING six BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
haths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3499/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 hedroom,
free pkg/lndry hy Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-1140.
skyharrisllc@comcast.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.

CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
SUBLETS
FREE RENT MONTH of dec. $629/1
BR. Bus stops. Dishwasher, Central air,
AC, pet friendly, free wireless, sub-
lease to July 31, 2010. 740-590-6596.
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AFTER SCHOOL SITTER needed
for 14 yr. old twins. Responsibilities
include driving to activities, help with
homework, etc. Tues, Wed., and Fri.
afternoons, 2:30-6:30 with optionof
one night. Must be non-smoker, with
car, excellent driving record, and refer-
ences. gglick@umich.edu or
734-747-8949.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
HOLIDAY HELP
Apply now, start after finals
734-677-2477
www.winterbreakwork.com
PART TIME SALES position avail.
Great Commissions Selling Bottle-less
water coolers. Contact us @
bellafinawater@gmail.com
BABY SITTER NEEDED for 2 kids
(2 & 6). 15-20 hrs/wk. Nursing/medical
exp. pref Trans req. Send resume to

SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com

For Saturday, Dec. 12., 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Enjoy yos rpopularity. This is a good
time to join groups, clubs, committees
and organizations. This is not a time to
go it alone.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Be open to all kinds of opportunities
that can come your way now because
lucky Jupiter is slowly moving across
the top of your chart. You can boost your
good name among your peers.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Travel opportunities, as well as oppor-
tunities to get further education or train-
ing, will abound now foryou. Get ready!.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Be ready to capitalize on offers of gen-
erosity from others. Similarly, you can
henrfit from the wealth of partners at
this tine.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
This is an excellent time for your rela-
tionships. It's also an excellent time to
form new partnerships. (This is not a
time to go it alone.)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Look for ways to improve your job or
find a hetter joh, hecause they exist for
you now. At the least, yost evil hoss will
quit.
I BRA
(Sept. 23 10 Oct. 22)
Creative opportunities abound for you
now. Some will expand their families
through children. It's a time of pleasant
fun for you.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Continue to look for opportunities to

make your home more comfortable. This
is the year in which you have a chance to
enjoy a happy family and domestic life.
It's a good year to hay real estate.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
More than others signs, it's important
for you to put a positive spin on life. If
you believe there's something better
down the road, that's all you need to
know. (And there is, incidentally.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Be on the lookout for ways to boost
your earnings, because they do exist this
year and even into next year. It could be
something on the side, or it could be a
new job.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Your good fortune still continues for
the rest of this year and into the begin-
ning of 2010. Make the most of this.
This kind of blessing comes only once
every 12 years.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Increasing opportunities to feel con-
tent with yourself are all around you. In
part, you might sense that you are
headed for an extremely fortunate year.
YOU BORN TODAY Your body lan-
guage is always confident. In fact, your
appearanceis pleasant, and often strik-
ing. (Many of yo y have a distinctive
voice.) Yomi grow up quickly in your
teens; however, in later years, your free-
dom and independence are important to
yoa. This year, something yoa've heen
involved with for nine years will dimin-
ish or end in order to create room for
something new.
Birthdate of: Frank Sinatra,
singer/actor; Jennifer Connelly, actress;
Mayim Bialik, actress.

LOKN FnweuOArP nati t

C 2009 King Features Syndicate. Inc.


8 - Friday, December 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'M' has serious problems to fix Icers need a'W'

By GJON.JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
It has been easy to trace the deteri-
oration in John Beilein's outlook over
the past three weeks.
He said the Michigan basketball
team's loss to Marquette on Nov. 27
was a wakeup call. He seemed to feel
the last-second defeat to Alabama as
unfortunate luck. But after the Wol-
verines were thrashed by Boston Col-
lege's flex-motion offense last week,
Beilein and histeam seemed discour-
aged and confused why they had not
showed signs of improvement.
Now with Wednesday's 68-52 loss
at Utah, the Wolverines' coaching
staff has to grapple with a question
that seems preposterous to ask just
eight games into the season:
Is this a talented (but flawed)team
in a slump, or just a bad team alto-
gether?
The Wolverines have repeatedly
said they must approach this season
with the same "hunter's mentality"
they adopted after upset victories
against UCLA and Duke last season
thrust them onto the national scene.
But even with two NBA-caliber play-
ers injunior Manny Harris and senior
DeShawn Sims, it's become brutally

obvious that Michigan still has no
consistent third weapon on offense.
The struggles of sophomore Stu
Douglass (whose shootinghas dipped
from 37 percent last year to 24 per-
cent this season) is well-documented,
while sophomore Zack Novak and
redshirt sophomore Laval Lucas-
Perry have yet to show significant
improvement fromlast winter. Mean-
while, freshmen guards Darius Mor-
ris and Matt Vogrich have attempted
just a combined seven shots per game
as they gradually adjust to Division I
basketball.
Although the schedule has been
tough - with the Old Spice Classic
in Orlando on Thanksgiving and the
trip to Utah this week - Michigan
still shouldn't have done so poorly.
None of the Wolverines' four losses
have come against ranked competi-
tion, and Michigan still must travel
to top-ranked Kansas and face
No. 14 Connecticut in the next six
weeks.
What's most discouraging is how
handily the Wolverines seem to have
been beaten this fall.
Opponents are shooting a whop-
ping 52.4 percent inside the arc
against Michigan, thanks to con-
sistent guard penetration and big-
ger frontcourts that can easily grab

offensive rebounds andscoregarbage
buckets. The Wolverines are also
dead last in the Big Ten in rebound-
ing margin, at -5.1. Northwestern is
next highestwith -1.7.
Although Beilein will likely keep
his four-guard lineup - especially
after Sims and fifth-year senior cen-
ter Zach Gibson combined for just
4-of-14 shooting and six rebounds
Wednesday -he appears to be hoping
the perimeter shooting deficiencies
even out over the next month before
conference play begins.
"Our guards are just so young,"
Beilein said Wednesday. "We just got
to continue to get more experience
and keep teaching them.
"What do you do? We just got to
continue to play people and see who
needs to improve the most. Right
now, the guard play is not real good,
and we just keep working at it. It's not
the biggest evil right now. There's a
lot of issues right now we need to get
better at."
Michigan has an elite dribble-
drive slasher in Harris, one of the,
more skilled post players in the con-
ference in Sims, and players who
all have well-earned reputations as
sharpshooters. Still, that has resulted
in an offense that is just eighth in the
Big Ten in scoring (70.6 points per

game) and last in field goal percent-
age (41.3) and three-point shooting
percentage (29.3).
Beilein is right to encourage his
perimeter shooters to fire their way
out of their slump. But until that
happens, defenses will have no issue
clogging the paint to try to take away
Sims and discourage dribble pen-
etration. The Wolverines also aren't
doing a very good job off the ball -
either the team has no one who can
set hard picks to free up the guards
off curls for open looks, or the back-
court players aren't moving with
enough discipline. Either way, with
the Wolverines cold from the perim-
eter, theyare not difficult to defend.
This is a group that, at its current
level of play, seems destined for the
National Invitational Tournament
right now. Considering the team
narrowly made last season's NCAA
Tournament with 12 regular-season
losses, four defeats before the win-
ter break gives the team virtually no
margin for error in a conference that
features four top-20 teams.
And with Sunday's game against
Detroit the lone tune-up before Kan-
sas, Beilein may not have to wait very
long to see if this slump turns into
something much more disappoint-
ing.

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Writer
A.J. Treais knows how to keep
his friends close.
His best friend on the U.S.
National Development Program
Under-18 Team, Kyle Palmieri,
lived next door to him last year.
The two were nearly inseparable.
But with Treais, a freshman
forward on
the Michi- Notre Dame
gan hockey
team, now in at Michigan
Ann Arbor, N
and Palmieri Matchup: ND 7-7-
playing for 4; Michigan 4-6
Notre Dame, *When: 7:30 p.m.
Treais may Where: Yost
just learn to Ice Arena
keep his ene-
mies closer Twitter:
when the two @michdailysports
face off for the
first time this weekend.
Treais said the two "chirped" at
each other on the phone all week
about the upcoming series.
"Him playing on the other side
is going to be different," Treais
said. "But it's not like we're going
to be friends on the ice. ... I just
have to approach him like another
player this week."
With both the Wolverines (4-6
CCHA, 8-8 overall) and Fighting
Irish (4-4-4-2, 7-7-4) limping into
this weekend's series with .500
records, there's a lot to gain in this
home-and-home series - the last
series for both teams this semester.
"It'sa big game no matter what
the stakes," sophomore forward
Luke Glendening said. "And right
now, we're two .500 teams fighting
for better position. These games
are as big as any in the season."
The teams' records aren't where
the similarities end, either.
They boast two of the best penal-
ty-kill units in college hockey, with
Michigan holding the top spot (91.7
percent success rate). The Fighting
Irish are only one percentage point
behind the Wolverines.
With two teams who are domi-
nant against the man advantage,
Michigan coach Red Berenson
knows that if Michigan doesn't
capitalize on the few chances it
is given, it could be another long
weekend.
"We know there's not going to
be much opportunity for points,"
Berenson *said. "We have to be

really sharp on the power play. If
you're lucky, you score one. It's
another game within a game for
us."
As part of the nation's top pen-
alty kill, Glendening reflects the
same sentiment.
"If it comes down to a spe-
cial teams battle, it's going to be
tough," Glendening said. "Hope-
fully we just play five-on-five-most
of the night."
Since both teams are so adept at
limiting opponents' opportunities,
it's a surprise to find that neither
has turned that proficiency on the
penalty kill into their own scoring
chances.
Michigan's offense has
improved lately, inching up to 27th
in the country in scoring after win-
ning four out of its last five games
and notching 18 goals in that span.
But Notre Dame's offense hasn't
been so lucky.
Ranked seventh-worst in Divi-
sion-I college hockey, the Fight-
ing Irish managed just one goal
against No. 1 Miami (Ohio) and
were swept by the RedHawks in
convincing fashion.
If Michigan can capitalize on
the few scoring chances it will get
against Notre Dame, the Wolver-
ines could head into their 16-day
break with a plus-.500 record for
the first time since sweeping Lake
Superior State at the end of Octo-
ber.
A series sweep would give the
Wolverines much-needed momen-
tum heading into the break with
the Great Lakes Invitational loom-
ing atcthe end of December.
Last year; that's when Michigan
exploded. After last year's GLI, the
Wolverines lost just three regular
season games.
"We have sixteen long days of
break," junior defenseman Tristin
Llewellyn said. "You don't want
to be thinking you could have,
we should have. We want to leave
thinking, 'We did our job, we did
everything we could, and we're
setting ourselves up for the next
half'"
And that's exactly what Treais
hopes to prove to his longtime
friend when he comes to Yost Ice
Arenaon Friday.
"He told me to be ready. I told
him to be ready," Treais said, refer-
encing the friends' phone conver-
sation this week. "And that's all it
comes to."

Blue outlasts opponent for third consecutive win on the road

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's basketball
team continues to astonish its doubt-
ers, surprise its critics and defy the
odds.
The Wolverines, picked last in the
Big Ten preseason by both the media
and the coaches, won their third
consecutive road game last night, all
over major-conference opponents.
The statement-making, 76-70
victory at Boston College is the
first time Michigan has won three
straight road games in Michigan
coach Kevin Borseth's three-year
tenure. In fact, the Wolverines have
done it just three times this decade,
the last coming in 2006.
In last night's win, Michigan (1-0
Big Ten, 7-2 overall) once again fea-
tured a balanced scoring attack. And
for the second time this season, five
players scored in double-figures.

Junior guard Veronica Hicks led
the teamwith14 points, and although
foul trouble relegated senior cen-
ter Krista Phillips to the bench for
much of the game, she still managed
to score 11 points. While the 6-foot-6
senior was on the bench, Michigan's
guard play
dictated MICHIGAN 76
the tempo BOSTON COLLEGE 70
of the
game, reeling in 31 fast-break points
off of 21 Eagle turnovers.
"They were our savior I think,"
Borseth said regarding the turn-
overs. "Our offense didn't look very
good in my opinion. I thought we
were very scattered, very disorga-
nized at times. I think the fact that
we had turnovers and got some
steals, and got some easy baskets, it
really helped us. We put 76 points
on the board, and I'm not really sure
how we did it."
Michigan's two starting freshman

guards, Jenny Ryan and Dayeesha
Hollins, continued their poised and
assertive playin the sixth game of an
eight-game road stretch. The back-
court duo combined for 25 points,
seven assists, eight rebounds and
seven steals. Both also contributed
a pair of free throws with under a
minute remaining to help solidify the
Michigan lead, which is an encour-
aging sign of their ongoing adjust-
ment to the college level.
"Right after the game I commend-
ed both of them on that, because
those were very important plays
for us." Hicks said. "The freshmen,
you know, they're ripe. And they do
understand that it's just basketball in.
the end and it's just putting the ball
in the hoop."
Sophomore guard Courtney
Boylan came offthe bench to score 12
points in 10 minutes on perfect 5-of-
5 shooting. Boylan's 3-pointer gave
the Wolverines their first lead of the

game with just over three minutes
to go in the first half. From there,
the Wolverines would relinquish the
lead just twice before building an
11-point margin midway through the
second half
Michigan then withstood a late
rally by Boston College (5-4) as the
Eagles pulled within a basket on sev-
eral occasions inside the four-minute
mark.
The close matchup marks the
second consecutive road game the
young Wolverines have won in the
waningminutes.
But as difficult as winning three
consecutive road games was for the
Wolverines, winning the fourth will
be a much greater challenge. No. 8
Xavier is Michigan's next test on
Monday.
"They're by and far the best team
we've played so far, without ques-
tion," Borseth said. "We have got
our hands full."

IiP'

GOING TO THE
AIRPORT?
EXPERIENCE THE
CUSTOM TRANSIT
DIFFERENCE
" Affordable: Half the price of a taxi.
" Convenient: Door-to-door service.
" Fast: You're at the airport in one
hour guaranteed!
" Reliable: We track your return flight
so we're there when you.need us.
TRANS ITNC.
www customtransit.com
For reservations, go
on-line or call
(734) 971-5555

SENIORS:
Don t Disappoint
Your Parents!
TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT
and be pictured in the Michiganensian Yearbook
LAST CHANCE N
Dec.lth -11th
10am-6pm
Bring this coupon with you and get
$2 OFF your Sitting Fee!!!
Mi higanensian
Schedule your portrait online:
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
Location: Sophia B. Jones Room, Union

I

9

0


