C . P tc4l an at l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, January 26, 2009

michigandaily.conm

NORTH CAMPUS RENOVATIONS
'Uasks for
G.G. Brown
fix-up funds
If capital outlay economic growth for the region
and the state.
request is accepted, "The Mechanical Engmeerig
Department is consistently ranked
state will shoulder in the top five undergraduate and
graduate programs nationally in
some of the costs a field strategically important for
revitalizing the state's economy,"
By NICOLE ABER Slottow wrote in the statement.
Daily StaffReporter College of Engineering Dean
David Munson said the college
Demonstrating its appetite to has been discussing a renovation
build and re-build despite the to the G.G. Brown building, which
state's and country's current eco- is one of the oldest buildings on
nomic hardships, the University campus, since he became dean
has proposed a $110 million reno- two and half years ago.
vation project for the G.G. Brown Munson said the renovation is
Laboratory Building to the state something that has been needed
legislature. for many years to increase oppor-
The capital outlay request for tunities in the mechanical engi-
the 2010 fiscal year calls for a proj- neering field.
ect involving a renovation and ad- "In the case of mechanical en-
dition to the building, located on gineering, it's now our largest en-
North Campus at 2350 Hayward gineering program so they need
St. If approved, the state and Uni- more faculty and space," he said.
versity would both provide fund- "In addition, mechanical engi-
ing for the project. neering as a field has been moving
In an informational item pre- rapidly in the fields of nano- and
sented to the Board of Regents bio-technologies, and the G.G.
at Thursday's meeting, Timothy Brown is not set up to handle that
Slottow, the University's execu- research.'
tive vice president and chief fi- From 2002 to 2004, the G.G.
nancial officer, wrote that the pro- Brown building underwent reno-
posed renovation would increase vations to its chemical engineer-
research opportunities in the ing laboratories and department
bio- and nano-technologies. He offices. The total cost of that proj-
wrote that it would also provide See G.G. BROWN, Page 3A
BILL AYERS EVENT
Controversial
election figure,
to speak at 'U'

ZACHARY MEISNER/Daily
Michigan junior defenseman Steve Kampfer lays motionless on the ice following an incident with two Michigan State players dufing Saturday night's men's ice hockey game.
On, off-ice clashes mar win

After brutal hit
during the game,
incident follows in
visitor's locker room
By NICOLE AUERBACH,
MICHAEL EISENSTEIN and
COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editors
About 30 minutes after the end
of the Wolverines' 5-3 win over
Michigan State Saturday night, a
somber hush fell upon the small
crowd gathered outside the Michi-
gan hockey locker room.
The lighthearted mood from the
players' postgame press conference
had dissipated. The enjoyment of
six straight victories over the Spar-

tans - the Wolverines' longest win
streak against them in 47 seasons -
momentarily ended.
Junior defenseman Steve Kamp-
fer, still in his maize game sweater
and with his neck in a brace, was
being carted out of Yost Ice Arena
on a gurney by paramedics. As team
officials cleared the hallway, a visit-
ing junior hockey team waiting to
greet the Wolverines looked on in
disbelief.
Kampfer, a Jackson, Mich. na-
tive, was punched from behind by
Spartan forward Andrew Conboy
and slashed in the head and neck
areas while laying motionless by
Michigan State forward Corey
Tropp in the final minute of Michi-
gan's victory. Michigan State coach
Rick Comley called the hit "cheap"
and "uncalled for" after the game.
And, according to a Department

of Public Safety report, once Tropp
was kicked out of the game, "a visi-
tor assaulted a hockey player after
being upset about an incident that
happened during the game."
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown
said that the incident followed the
ejection from the game. She said
the player ejected from yesterday's
game - which, according to the box
score, was Tropp - was in the visi-
tor's locker room and a 48-year-old
man from Jackson confronted him.
"We had a parent come crashing
into the locker room and fight my
player," Comley said to the State
News.
According to multiple sources
close to the situation, the man was
taken to the Yost offices behind the
skate rental booth for DPS ques-
tioning.
"I heard him tell the officer that

he did grab Tropp by the jersey, and
they were also holding each other
and yelling at each other," said a
person who was in the room during
the questioning. The person asked
to remain anonymous because he
was not authorized to speak to the
press on the matter.
The hit on Kampfer was espe-
cially poignant, considering his
recent history of head injuries. He
suffered a fractured skull in an off-
ice incident on Oct.12, was ina neck
brace until Nov.19 and didn't return
to game action until Dec. 27.
See KAMPFER, Page 7A

STUDY[NG FN T HE STA TES
Demand rises for
' English skills tests

DEMONSTRATING BY EXAMPLE

Aye
an
to
L

University's MELAB
expands testing sites
in growing market
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily StaffReporter
Asthenumberofforeignstudents
applying to U.S. colleges continues
to grow, the University's English
Language Institute is expanding its
testing sites for the Michigan Eng-
lish Language Assessment Battery.
The MELAB, which originated
at the University of Michigan, is a
test of English writing, speaking
and reading proficiency.
When the number of interna-
tional applicants is expected to hit
at an all time high in a year, the
University is concurrently bolster-
ing the availability of the MELAB
by adding new testing sites around
* the world.
The University has offered the
MELAB exam foryears,but it never
sought the scope of giants like the
Test of English as a Foreign Lan-
guage (TOEFL) or International

English Language Testing System
(IELTS).
Until now, the most well-known
test of English language ability has
been TOEFL. But, as the market for
such a test has grown, competitors
like the IELTS have emerged.
In an e-mail interview, Erica
Sanders, the director of recruit-
ment and operations in the Office
of Undergraduate Admissions said,
"The MELAB is accepted as a test
of English as a second language ex-
amination; not in place of TOEFL,
but as an alternative."
According to the English Lan-
guage Institute, that alternative is
one that droves of international
students are electing.
The MELAB is accepted at many
U.S. universities and while the test
has only been administered in the
United States and Canada in the
past, institutions in the United
Kingdom, Sweden and Norway now
recognize it.
In the industry of well-estab-
lished names, the MELAB dis-
tinguishes itself by remaining a
strictly paper-and-pencil test.
See TOEFL, Page 7A

Des
bothm
in last
won't
contro
school
Uni
war ac
dressit
nity to
Hatch,
Aye:
educat
linois
ing fro
Memo
and wi
nadine
the bo
White
Aye
Under:
claime
ings oi
Pentag
ernme
1970s.
connec

rs, an alum and were dropped after prosecutorial
misconduct.
tti-war radical, The event is being co-spon-
sored by Shaman Drum Bookshop
talk at Hatcher and the Graduate Library.
Earl Fobrt, owner of Shaman
ibrary tonight Drum, said Beacon Press, the pub-
lisher for Ayers's book, approached
By NICOLE ABER him about holding the event.
Daily StaffReporter Pohrt said he then approached
the Graduate
pite a lack of attention from Library to host
iajorpresidential candidates the event, in
fall's election, Ann Arbor part because
go completely unnoticed by of its esteemed
versial political figures this Labadie Col-
year. lection of an-
versity alum and1960s anti- archist and
tivist Bill Ayers will be ad- social protest AYERS
ng the Ann Arbor commu- literature.
night at 7 p.m. at the Harlan "Hatcher
er Graduate Library. has the finest collections of radi-
rs, who is a professor of cal literature, the Labadie Collec-
ion at the University of Il- tion. That's a good sight for the
at Chicago, will be present- event," Pohrt said. "Also, the mis-
im his book, "Fugitive Days: sion of the University is to discuss
irs of an Anti-War Activist," controversial issues, as is (that of)
ll be joined by his wife, Ber- bookshops."
Dohrn, who co-authored Pohrt said he expects Ayers to
tok "Race Course Against draw a large crowd, like the last
Supremacy" with Ayers. time Ayers spoke at the University
rs co-founded the Weather in 2003.
ground organization, which "That was before the contro-
d responsibility for bomb- versy during the last election, and
n the Capitol Building, the everybody is very curious about
on, and several other gov- who he was and what his ideas
nt buildings in the early are," Pohrt said.
Charges against Ayers in During last year's presidential
ction with the bombings See AYERS, Page 3A

Memhers t fStudents Organizingor Lahor and tconomic tquality demonstrate
varios CIA torture procedures and techniques on Friday. They held the dem-
onstration outside ofva CIA recruiting event in the School of Information. The
demonstration was eventually ended when the SOLE members were removed by
Department of Public Safety officials.


WEATHER HI 21
TOMORROW LO14

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

Podcast: Daily Arts discusses Oscar nominations.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/VIDEO

IN DE X N E W S ........................... ..... .2 A "A R TS.............
Vol CXIX, No. 80 SUDOKU ....... .................. 3A CLASSIFIEDS............
0l9 TheMichigantaily OPINION............................ 4A SPORTSMOSDAY.,

Al


2A - Monday, January 26, 2009ThMihgnDly-mhgadlco

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com '

Greek membership down at U. Wisconsin

A BREWING EDUCATION

Participation in the Greek sys-
tens at the University of Wiscon-
sir-Madison is falling due to hard
economic times, The Badger Her-
ald reported.
The University's Panhellenic
group is said to he exploring
ways, to raise money to increase
scholarships to avoid losing more
mcembers.
Additionally, Greek councils
are sending pamphlets to incom-
ing students to advertise the
benefits and clarify the financial
requirements of joining the Greek
community.
The Herald reported that simi-
lar concerns shout memhership
arc present at the University of
Michigan and that Greek life offi-
cials are monitoring the situation
c lasely.
MSU RELEASES STUDENT
INFORMATION ON FACEBOOK
Officials at Michigan State

University in the communica-
tions arts and sciences programs
recently released student contact
information to a new Facehook
application to help students form
study groups, the State News
reported.
The application, "Schools"
releases information from the reg-
istrar's office, including students
names, e-mail addresses and class
schedules. A student can select a
certain class and see the informa-
tion of other students enrolled in
that class. With students aware of
other people in a certain course,
university adnministrators hope
students will be able to form study
groups with more efficiency and
According to the State News,
some students are excited for
the application, but others are
concerned that the university is
releasing personal information
over the Internet.

HARVARD LAW PROF. MAILED
SUSPICIOUS WHITE POWDER
Alan Dershowitz, a law pro-
fessor at Harvard University
received a letter with a myste-
rious white powder in the mail
last week, the Harvard Crimson
reported.
Dershowitz, reportedly the
only professor tqi have bullet-
proof windows in his office,
is said to receive hate mail on
a regular basis. Dershowitz
received a death threat two
years ago that prompted FBI
agents to trail him for a week to
ensure his safety.
Authorities were alerted to the
white powder, which tested nega-
tive for anthrax. Officials are not
yet certain what the powder was
made of, but law school staffers
were told the material did not
appear to be hazardous, accord-
ingnto the Crimson.
KYLE SWANSON

(The 1mcigpan aUli
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-l1327
www.rnichigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Btusiness Manage
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graea@miehigandailyeam bugli@miehigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehus: Su.-Thurs. 21iae. - 2a tie
News Tips news@mrichiganidaily.com
Corrections corecctions@michigandily.ceom
Letters tothetEditor tothedaily@michigandaiy.comr
Photography Department photo@michigandail.comt
Arts Sectian artspage@mrichiganrdaily.comr
Editorial Page opinione@m~ichigandatily.comt
Spirts Sectro otsr@micigandaily.caom
DisplaylSales display@mtichigandaily.comt
Classified Sales classified@m~ichigandaily.comt
OrlireSales erlineadt@michigandaily~com
Finarce finance@michigandaily.comi
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtrey Ratkowiak MauningEditrratkawiak@miicigadariy.caom
JacoblSmilovitz Managn estEditocr siitz@michigandaily.comt
iSIORNEWS EDITOR: Jllin Brmn,oTrevorCalr, Julie wLidy Steves
ASSISTAsNT'SEDITOnS:Mtrnon, Be tnjain S,. Ce, intiilintScneider,
Je~na kollr, KyeSanson
Robert Soave EditorialiPaeEditrnr stave@mtichigatdatily.comt
ASSOCIATEEDITORIAL PAG EDITOS:ElyBrton,irsiaahrty aheVn Gilder
ASSISTANTiDI TRALPAGE EDITORSEad Asr,Ema Jszke Matithehuler
Andy Reid ManagingSpiortnditore reid@rmicigandaily otm
SENtIORRT S EDITORicole Auerbiach,,Mike inti n,ODan Fedmn, Chis
Herring, Rth5Linol
ASSISTANT PORSEO RS: ianKartj,IanKa,iJasnKohler,uChrisMesro,
Alexi'Prpri, Ct snwenig
DavidWatrick ManigingArtt ditrr watnicksynichigndailycwi
t ENIOR ARTSiITORSoie Blocnk,BrndonCnrai,itny Pow
ASIiSTANT ARS DIORS: JosnhuaBayr, AndrewLpi, DaRrea, Bn natgonr
Zachrary Meisnrnad photo@mrichigandailycom~
tilt Reder Maunagi'htrEditor
SENIiOR POTiOEDTORSid Asalh, CelVon asiibr-Lothringen,
ASSITAsTePHOnOITOS:Ma ols, Cri Dombk, RbMigrin mWlsn
Argela Chih ard design@michiandail.comr
Maureer Stych MaiesigeenEditors
SENIORDESIuGN EIOSHillary Rutse
Jessica Vosgerchiar Magazine Editor vosgeriint@michiganrdily.comr
David Meriar MultimeidiiEditor mnrini@miahigantriliy.ienr
KatherinMitchsell Copyehief mirshela@michiandaiy.comrr
BUSINESS STAFF-
Mithael Schrotenrboer Dispay Adertisinesaner
Nema , hri Pilip
Ryar BusirsilassttifidSalesManaier
ClssifirdSales AssistantMnagr:Ason Thomas
Marissa Gerber OulineuesrMauiger
tenEngish ProductisoneignMnaiger
Meryl Hulteng LayoutManaer
Viian Leenard Emily Loveless FinnreMaunaers
Te MiiaDiyISNt045-%h7ipbibseihMondarthroghFrdydring treiflnd ntr
tersiyistdett thetUiverityifichian.ecpy iaaila re e ofharetlradrs.
Additioaismay bepickedup at th Dilysoffiefor $2. Ssript~ion oltersatin g in~
Setembr, via .S.imailir intrtrm nay thrugh pilis $5yrlong (epte~br
throughApril) i$195.Uniiafiitesiae:sbject to a reduebiptirae. O-cimps
subscriptonforfalltr r $.Subscrptions t brepad. TheihiantDilyisaembr of
TeAsociated P~res ndThessoitd Ciate tPres.

4

4

4

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Male arrested Student harassed Talk on terror Discussion onn
SMiss_ Indiana Katie Scam
for drugs over phone and torture African security won the title Miss America
on Saturday, "MSNBC.com
WHERE: Duderstadt Center WHERE: Mary Markley Real- WHAT: The workshop dis- WHAT: Zn Ramdriamaro reported. The 22-year-old Uni-
WENt Friday at about t:50 dence Hall cusses today's most debated presents a paper which argues versity of Indianapolis student
Pl.WHEN: Friday at aboutl10:30 issues in international and the human need for re-deft- suffered a throat infection and
WHA: A ma wa arestd pm. ompratve aw.nition of the humaan security laryngitis, but still sang "Via
after being suspected of marl- WHAT: A male resident is WHO: Certer for Internatiorn- agenda in Africa. Dolorosa" for the talent com-
juana possession at the Duder- suspected of being harassed by al and Comparative Law WHO: Institute for Research petition.
stadt Center, University Police another resident after receiving WHEN: Today 4 prm, to 5:15 on Women and Gender
reported.te Fi-,The substance was repeated phone calls where the p.m. WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m. At thesn oalbfrietfcto. cle ugu eoease- W EE ucisHl HR:HvnHl omuSktnitedCSatespign-
The subject was released with iog, University Police reported. Room 116 4701 ships in Cleveland on
a pending warrant accusation.B Saturday, sophomores Meryl
BillAy r Davis and Charlie White won
Ayersice-dance gold and freshman
Researcher Ex-boyfriend Talk on wrongf ul book signing Emily Samnuelson and sopho-
mrEvnBtswon the sec-
bitten by rat arrested for convictions WHAT: Authors Bill Ayers ond-place ice dance slot.
and Bernadine Dohrn will dis- aaFOR MORE,
uinlawvfuil entryvrice heir xrnr.. SEE SPORTS MONDAY,.PAGE2RB

Unit II
WHEN: Friday at about 6:30
WHAT: A staff member was
conducting a lab experiment
on a rat when the rat bit the
back of his hand, University
Poilice reported. A veterinarian
on-site treated the wound with
basic care.

WHERE: East Quad. Y
WHEN: Saturday at about 9:511
p.m.
WHAT: A former University
student was arrested after
bothering his ex-girlfriend.
The man refused to leave her
residence hall, University
Folice reported.

Moran and advocate Ren
Wyniemko will speak about
crinainal justice and wrongful
convictions in Michigan.
WHOt ACLU UM Undergrad-
nate Chapter
WHEN: Today 8 p.m. to 5:15
p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Anderson Room D


WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today 7 p.m. toS9 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
CORRECTIONS
0Please reporE any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.comn.

3The Happy Egg Company
placed the' label 'allergy
advice: contains egg'
inside the lid of its six-pack egg
boxes, The Daily Mail report-
ed. The company is printing
the message to take an extra
precaution to warn consum-
ers with egg allergies.


4

A

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 26, 2009 -- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
NEW YORK
Gillibrand promises
common ground
Senator-designate Kirsten Gilli-
brand pledged yesterday to combat
gunviolencewhile protectinghunt-
ers' rights, saying "there's enor-
mous space for common ground"
on issues that she differs from fel-
low New York Democrats.
Gillibrand met yesterday with
Gov. David Paterson, senior Sen.
Charles Schumer and Secretary
of State Hillary Rodham Clinton,
whose vacant Senate seat Gillibrand
was appointed to fill Friday.
Marissa Shorenstein, a spokes-
woman for Paterson, said the gov-
ernor's office delivered paperwork
in Washington yesterday formaliz-
ing Gillibrand's appointment to the
Senate.
Gillibrand, a second-term con-
gresswoman who worked on the
former first lady's 2000 Senate
campaign, said Clinton "has always
been a mentor of mine and someone
I've always admired."
Paterson appointed Gillibrand
after the presumed front-runner,
Caroline Kennedy, withdrew from
contention over personal reasons.
JERUSALEM
Israel defends
soldiers against war
crime charges
Special legal teams will defend
Israeli soldiers against potential
war crimes charges stemming from
civilian deaths in the Gaza Strip,
the prime minister said yesterday,
promising the country would fully
back those who fought in the three-
week offensive.
The move reflected growing con-
cerns by Israel that officers could
be subject to international prosecu-
tion, despite the army's claims that
Hamas militants caused the civil-
ian casualties by staging attacks
from residential areas.
"The state of Israel will fully
back those who acted on its behalf,"
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said.
"The soldiers and commanders
who were sent on missions in Gaza
must know that they are safe from
various tribunals."
Speaking at the weekly Cabinet
meeting, Olmert said Israel's jus-
tice minister would lead a team of
senior officials to coordinate the
legal defense of anyone involved in
the offensive.
"That decision is not going to
prevent all these organizations and
countries to pursue their efforts
through legal means," Palestinian
Foreign Minister Riad Malki said
at talks with European Union for-
eign ministers in Brussels.
SPRINGFIELD, Ill.
Blagojevich refuses
participation in
impeachment trial

If there's such a thing as a "nor-
mal" impeachment trial, the one
that starts today in Illinois doesn't
qualify.
The defendant, Gov. Rod
Blagojevich, won't participate.
He'll be talking to Whoopi Gold-
berg and Larry King instead of
facing the state Senate. And while
the Democrat acknowledges his
conviction is certain, he refuses to
Presign.
Blagojevich (pronounced blah-
GOY'-uh-vich) complains that the
trial rules are unfair, but he and
his lawyers didn't try to influence
the rules as they were written or
afterward.
After weeks of near-silence,
Blagojevich has begun an ener-
getic public relations campaign,
comparing himself to the hero of a
Frank Capra movie and a cowboy
being lynched for a crime he didn't
commit.
SAGINAW, Mich.
Saginaw gunfire
detection system
to debut soon
Saginaw's police chief says crews
plan to install a gunfire detection
system within 90 days.
Chief Gerald H. Cliff tells The
Saginaw News that engineers have
been working on the project in Sag-
inaw for about two weeks.
The city received a U.S. Depart-
ment of Justice grant of about
$280,000 to buy the system from
Mountain View, Calif.-based
 ShotSpotter Inc.
The system determines the time
and origin of gunshot-like sounds
using microphones on structures
or telephone poles.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Ayers to discuss
his anti-war past

President Barack Obama speaks to reporters during a meeting about the economy Friday with Congressional leaders,
including Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland, House Minority Leader John Boehner of Ohio and House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi of California.
Democrats war'n: stimulus
not a quick economic fix

Two-thirds of
$825B package to
go to new spending
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
White House warned yesterday
that the country could face a long
and painful financial recovery,
even with major government inter-
vention to stimulate the economy
and save financial institutions.
"We're off and running, but it's
going to get worse before it gets
better," said Vice President Joe
Biden, taking the lead on a theme
echoed by other Democratic offi-
cials on the Sunday talk shows.
At the end of the Obama admin-
istration's first week, the party
G.G. BROWN
From Page 1A
ect was $3.1 million, funded by the
College of Engineering.
Munson said the current proj-
ect would benefit both students
and faculty, with not only new
research facilities but also new
educational tools, including the
construction of new classrooms.
"We're certainly looking at
transforming at least a part of the
G.G. Brown building," Munson
said. "New classrooms that are far
more student friendly. It's not all
about the research side. We also
want to make a building that's at-
tractive for students, including
more space for team projects."
In the capital outlay project pro-
cess, which has been in place for
several decades, state universities
in Michigan can submit proposals
to the state each year to get fund-
ing for major educational projects,
said Cynthia Wilbanks, vice presi-
dent for government relations.
Wilbanks said that in the past,
it was required that the university
submitting the request provides
25 percent of the funding for the
project, with the state funding the

in power at both ends of Penn-
sylvania Avenue sought to lower
expectations for a quick fix despite
legislation expected to pass by next
month that would pump billions of
dollars into the economy. Demo-
crats also opened the door for even
more government aid to struggling
banks beyond the $700 billion bail-
out already in the pipeline.
Congress has given President
Barack Obama permission to
spend the second $350 billion of a
Wall Street bailout package even
though lawmakers have criticized
the Bush administration for the
way it spent the first half. House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.,
said she is open to additional gov-
ernment rescue money for banks
and financial institutions. But she
other 75 percent. But given the
current economic downturn, pro-
portions for project funding have
changed.
"In more recent years, because
of the constrained budget environ-
ment, those rates have been differ-
ent," Wilbanks said. -Therr'a a lit-
tle more flexibility and negotiation
of what the support might be."
Wilbarakssaidthe Universitysub-
raits a top proposai for a construc-
tion or renovation project as part of
the capital outlay request each year.
The state then decides which proj-
ects it can fund and which projects
will be placed on a list for possible
funding at a later time.
The G.G. Brown renovation and
addition proposal was submitted
to the state as part of the Univer-
sity's capital outlay request for
the 2009 fiscal year. The cost of
the project was then estimated at
$133 million dollars but was not
approved by the state.
Wilbanks said there have been
a number of smaller renovation
projects to the University's edu-
cational and research facilities in
the past decade, including Mason
and Angell Halls, which have been
funded through the capital outlay
program. But the University has

said taxpayers must get an own-
ership stake in return.
Biden said Obama's choice for
Treasury secretary, Timothy Gei-
thner, will recommend whether
more money is needed for the
banks. Geithner could be con-
firmed by the Senate as early as
today.
Congress is working on an $825
billion economic recovery package
that dedicates about two-thirds to
new government spending and the
rest to tax cuts. Separate propos-
als making their way through the
House and Senate would combine
tax cuts for individuals and busi-
nesses, help for cash-strapped state
governments, aid for the poor and
unemployed, and direct spending
by the federal government.
not received "major capital outlay
support" for over a decade.
"According to the state's budget
office, we are an old campus," Wil-
banks said. "In part, we've been
able to maintain that long and
usefaul life because we've received
fn ( , :r_1r1 he state

From Page 1A
campaign, Ayers became the sub-
ject of much political attention as
Republicans tried to make the case
that President Barack Obama's con-
nection to Ayers, which involved
them serving on an education board
together, made him a poor choice
for president. In early October, Re-
publican vice presidential-nominee
Sarah Palin said, "Our opponent
though, is someone who sees Amer-
ica it seems as being so imperfect
that he's palling around with ter-
rorists who would target their own
country?"- an indirect reference
to Ayers's time as a leader of the
Weather Underground.
Tom Hallock, associate publisher
and director of marketing, sales and
subsidiary rights for Beacon Press,
said he expects Ayers to talk about
his book, his role in last year's presi-
dential campaign and the recent
events in national politics.
"The right wing launched a
multi-million dollar campaign, so
Bill was kind of unwillingly thrust
into the 2008 campaign," Hallock
said. "That's what gave us all the
publicity for the new paperback
edition."
"He will talk about the book,
what it's like to be manipulated by
the right in that way," Hallock add-
ed. "He and his audience will want
to talk about the current shift in
American politics and progressive
approaches to politics under the
Obama administration."
Melissa Levine, University Li-
brary exhibits and outreach librar-
ian, said the events of the 2008
presidential election echoed the
political affairs of 1968, a time in
which Ayers was at the forefront of
social and political activism.
"Ayers had a significant role in
national events in 1968 and again
in 2008," Levine said. "It's im-
portant for students today to re-
alize how the recent presidential
election is proximately related to,
events in 1968."
Levine said despite Ayers's con-
troversial history as a member of
Students for a Democratic Society
and the Weather Underground, his
upcomig rt c is an educational
event in which students will get a

glimpse into a divisive time in the
nation's past.
"What makes Ayers controver-
sial today is the violence associated
with his viewpoint," Levine said.
"It is worthwhile for us to hear di-
rectly from the source - from Ayers
himself - what it was he was doing
in the '60s and early '70s, why he
adopted the militant position that
he did and how he regards those
positions and actions a generation
later.'
Many people on campus, includ-
ing students and faculty, support
Ayers's right to speak at the Univer-
sity.
"We completely support his free-
dom to speak on this campus," said
Nathaniel Eli Coats Styer, chair of
the University's chapter of College
Democrats. "He's a notable figure in
history."
Others on campus, including
Brady Smith, chair of the Universi-
ty's chapter of College Republicans,
disagreed with Ayers' upcoming
presentation.
"Shaman Drum is certainly en-
titled to invite him to speak," Smith
said. "I think what's more troubling
is the University's willingness to
collaborate on it."
Smith said that Ayers's history
as a "violent activist" makes him a
questionable figure to address the
University.
"What's very disappointing to
me is that the University would
invite someone who's unrepentant
for his violent actions against the
U.S., to use its space to promote his
demagography and his violence and
illegal course of action," said Smith,
who compared Ayers's speech to
Columbia University inviting Irani-
an President Mahmoud Ahmadine-
jad to speak in 2007.
Vincent Hutchings, associate
professor of political science, said
he believes Ayers is trying to restore
his public persona and defend his
point of view by addressing mem-
bers of the University community.
"The effort of the speaking tour
is to rehabilitate his image because
of the negative comments that were
expressed about him during the
presidential campaign," Hutchings
said. "He's seeking ultimately to tell
his side of the story."


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

WHAT DO
tHODES/MARSHALL/MITCHELL
SCHOLARS
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
Well, this guy became
'.president.

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

the United States of America, 1992-2000

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Koessler Room, Michigan League
Thursday, January 29, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons Center Room

Thursday, February 5, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union

To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Monday, January 26, 2009
lie ffidiigan B&aiIy
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Wasting students' time
MSA should focus its attention on campus issues first
fter two long, drawn-out meetings on January 13 and 21,
the Michigan Student Assembly finally passed the reso-
lution that it had debated for so long. This all-important,
time-consuming resolution was a statement expressing regret
for the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. As the student government
of the University, MSA is supposed to represent the students and
work toward solving issues that concern them. But yet again, it
has neglected its responsibility to students and wasted time argu-
ing about an issue over which it has no jurisdiction to address. If
MSA wants to earn respect, it must mount a tangible effort to solve
some of the issues that pertain to campus life for students instead

.

NOTABLE QUOTABE
Fun is not the first adjective
that comes to mind:'
- Rahm Emanuel, President Barack Obama's chief of staff, talking about his first week
in the White House, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI T PASTURE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
TThevery"Three Weekly s asmor paper,like the
Did you read lsie the Review, oily Oio fr Michiga swdeta.
week'sE3W' tentertainingY ai lyD Ev ,
3Aai ti4I 's teen
WhrtI&Iartdonif&d
* *
No Kennedys need apply

i

of issuing pointless statements.
MSA has spent the majority of its last two
meetings debating over resolutions about
the crisis in Gaza. A Thursday night's meet-
ing, the assembly finally settled on a resolu-
tion calling for the American Movement for
Israel and Students Allied for Freedom and
Equality to c ome together with any other
interested students and screen a documen-
tary about Arabic and Jewish women coex-
isting peacefully. This was a compromise
resolution after a more strongly worded
resolution calling for a permanent cease fire
failed to pass.
The problem with the approved resolution
is not that it doesn't do enough to address the
crisis in Gaza. The problem is that MSA is
spending its tite on the issue. Despite what
members of the assembly may think, their
personal feelings about the situation in Gaza
should not come before their commitment to
dealing with campus issues.
There are plentyof issues that students are
trusting MSA to hsandle. The assembly needs
to follow through on its promise of better
lighting across camuspus. It needs to improve
its website - including actually posting the
minutes from its meetings - so that students
have a way of checking up and seeing what's
going on in MSA. Representatives need to
confront campus crime. And, as the Univer-

sity faces the prospect of decreased fund-
ing from the state, students are counting
on MSA to be their voice for college afford-
ability. What we're getting now is a student
government that cares more about debating
distant international issues than discussing
the improvements students need.
Every election cycle, MSA representatives
promise to take care of these issues, and
every MSA session, the results are disap-
pointing. If MSA fulfilled its promises and
worked with students, perhaps its elections
would see a rise in voter turnout. Last elec-
tion only 9.6 percent of campus voted. This
isn't surprising, because students have vir-
tually no way to express dissatsfaction with
MSA's single party, the Michigan Action
Party, aside from simply not voting. And this
allows MSA to get away with not serving
students' needs.
At the root of this problem may simply be
the way that MSA views itself. Actions like
the unnecessary Gaza resolution reveal that
the members of MSA think it's more impor-
tant to pretend to be the U.S. Senate than
representatives elected to confront the prob-
lems of University students. MSA represen-
tatives must hold themselves accountable to
students' wishes and work for students to
improve campus.

There's something with Ameri-
cans that makes us hate enti-
tlement. We just can't stand
people who think
they should get
something just
because it's their
prerogative, and
naturally coupled
with that is our love
of underdogs. ButI
there are problems
that arise when we IMRAN
so easily generalize SYED
about who the good
and bad guys are.
When I first
heard that Caroline Kennedy might
be appointed to fill the New York Sen-
ate seat vacated by Hillary Clinton, an
almost embarrassing excitement over-
took me. Always a pragmatic skeptic,
I'm generally not easily bowled over.
And yet here I was, swept away at the
prospect of President John Kennedy's
daughter goingto the Senate.
My excitement went beyond just the
creepy fixation alot of people have with
the Kennedys. Caroline is a lawyer who
has written books on civil liberties and
the Constitution. To a law student like
me, that counts for at least six years of
political experience. That, along with
the very personal endorsement she gave
to Barack Obama and the vibrant (even
if not prolific) voice she became on the
campaign trail, seemed to make her
one among many appropriate choices
for New York Gov. David Paterson to
consider.
And then came the backlash, mostly
from those salt-o'-the-Earth New York-
ers (iced lattos and all) decrying what
they saw as prissy entitlement: "Caro-
line Kennedy isn't experienced enough.
She isn't enough of a New Yorker. She's
just a child of privilege blinded by van-
ity."
Some of that criticism is true. Ken-
nedy has never held political office,
and the Senate is an assumptive place

to start. Although she attended Colum-
bia Law School and has lived in New
York City most of her life, Kennedy
hasn't exactly had an ear pressed to the
ground for news regarding the rest of
the state. And while she appears to be
a very grounded person, entertaining
even the thoughtcof being nominated to
the Senate without any political expe-
rience does hint at a sense of entitle-
ment.
But these are all little things. What
politician doesn't have a sense of enti-
tlement? (Isn'tit arequirement, really?)
At least Kennedy has lived in New York
for mostofher life, whichis muchmore
than could be said for Hillary Clinton.
And after an election where NewYork-
ers overwhelmingly supported Obama,
they hardly have the right to throw
Kennedy's lack of experience in her
face.
Yet, while Kennedy did have a
solid rank of supporters, the backlash
steadily gained steam in recent weeks.
Kennedy's abrupt decision last week
to withdraw herself from consider-
ation for the seat was almost certainly
a result of her seeingthe writing on the
wall.
For hardworking, everyday Ameri-
cans, liking an affluent Kennedy is
tough. It's much easier to embrace an
underdog because we like our heroes
to rise from being face down in the
streets, not from the laps of presidents
(George W. Bush was an unfortunate
aberration). We like someone we can
point at as we tell our kids thatthey can
do anything if they really try.
For example, let me describe to you
the exact type of hero we like. Imag-
ine a poor boy, a son of poor Serbian
immigrants, living in a poor Chicago
neighborhood. His father is a poor steel
worker; his family is poor, so he works
odd jobs to make some money. Some-
how he rises from all that poorness
to go to college, does well enough to
transfer to Northwestern University
and then goes on to get a law degree.

Tearing up yet? Is this ultimate under-
dog overload or what? Wait, it actually
gets better. Our poor immigrant boy
goes into politics and becomes the gov-
ernor of Illinois.
Yes, that's the true story of Rod
Blagojevich.
Obviously, not all underdogs are slea-
zy, andI'mcertainlynotsayingthatrich
people should be handed everythin
in life. That would be an awful state
of affairs where incompetent people
would be in power just because of who
their fathers were. But actively work-
ing to preclude people who may have
Our "little guy
mentality meant
Caroline didn't
stand a chance.
had famous fathers is just as bad: They
'have the right tobe considered just like
any other qualified person. Kennedy is
hardly the first to think she is entitled
to a Senate seat, and she has plenty of
reasons for thinking so. But why is she
the only one who has to answer for her
family, her name and her money? ,
Whilenotnearlyas harshordestruc-
tive as racism or sexism, this obsession
with the little guy and this vindictive
hatred of those who may not have had
to work seven jobs through highschool
really amounts to a prejudice (the same
prejudice recently espoused in the
jingoistic, "real America" stylings of
Sarah Palin). And prejudices, no matter
how well-meaning or minimal, always
have nasty consequences.
Imran Syed was the Daily's
editorial page editor in 2007. He can
be reached atgalad@umich.edu.

ELISE BAUN 

Outlaws no more

I would like to thank Yannick Wood for con-
tributing to the cheating paranoia of the faculty
at the University. His viewpoint outlined how
often he chsested in his language courses (Out-
laws in the MI I t01/12/09). He then went on to
express his own conspiracy theory about how all
of his fellow foreign language students are cheat-
ing as well.
I just ant to say t this is totally untrue.
Two of my r:sssmmates have been accused
of cheating, evsen though they'd done nothing
wrong (they were both exonerated). I'm not sure
what would compel one student to purge his
conscience by not only claiming that cheating
in undergraduate laguage courses was under-
stood, but also thiat it was expected.
I took Spanish 22 not because I needed it
to graduate, but ictually because I was looking
forward to leL'rn iig mi !ore about the language. I
understand thratr mna students at this Univer-
sitytake their laishm sue esourses just to fulfill the
language requiremiseit, but I would also suggest
that they tae a linguage that interests them.
Wood appIears to have taken French for his
language requirernent an id, according to him,
cheated on many of the tests in order to receive
a higher gr ade.
In light o this, I would also like to thank Wood
for thlrowing) into dolt the integrity of the grade
that I rcei ed I: i: mviyngu age courses. I have
work e1ha ia,' f r eey Erade that I have received
at this Univ eesity. I espict my fellow students to
do the sii:. : I c i:: sounderstand that some
studeints psrsi lly use sssome "extra" means to help
secure ih:ir grsde. I cannot condemn anyone
for using wsv e "tools" they have, but I can-
not sy mi lpai ,6i ' vi one student consfessing his
wrongi:i.n is i' , ent ire University and cast-
ing a shla dsw isupo iie eacomsplishments of every
other language student.
JA SON MAHAd iANd

Unfortunately, Wood went even further than
just confessing. He actually made the claim that
his actions were perfectly legit because everyone
else does it. But this ancient defense mechanism
of saying, "Well, everybody does it," is not a valid -
excuse for the actions of one individual.
Wood also argued that it wasn't his fault
because the teachers made him do it. He blamed
the professors' choice of material, claiming that
it was outdated. I will concede that perhaps, in
his case, some of the material had been used
before. But even if this material had been slight-
ly outdated, this reason in itself does not excuse
his actions. Our professors deserve respect.
Cheating in class and advertising this fact is bla-
tantly disrespectful to teachers and to the stu-
dent body.
While some material could benefit from
an update, other language courses have been
revaped. My Spanish 232 class had new books
tht my professor had written. She was connect-
ed with the text and enthusiastic about teaching
students abougSpanish culture.Wood, inhisrude
viewpoint, suggested that his professors haven't
made the material interesting enough for him to
put in the full effort. Perhaps he just didn't take
the right course for him. All the same, cheating
was not the way to handle a dull class.
Wood confused his own situaionby relaingiy
to the rest of the student body at large. I sincerely
hope that no profesor will read his words and
believe that a majority of their students haven't
chosen to put in the work required to receive a
good grade. Hopefully, no more of my roommates
will be accused of cheating because one student
thought he could assuage his own guilt by blam-
ingnot only all language students, but the profes-
sors as well.
Elise Baun is anS LSA senior.
E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
HAMDAN YOUSUF I VI T
WhyMSA addresses issues outside A2

In recent days, students have expressed their frustra-
tion with the Michigan Student Assembly's resolution on
the situation in Gaza. I wholeheartedly agree. But the issue
is not that MSA should spend its time on more "relevant"
matters. Tuition hikes and campus safety are major issues
of concern for all of us, but MSA would do a disservice to
the student body were it to remain silent in the face of glob-
al tragedy. The resolution passed last Tuesday is an inad-
equate response to the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. And
we can be silent no longer.
As a student of public health, I study epidemics and
disease prevention. In my classes, I learn about using
statistical models to improve quality of life and to tackle
cutting-edge problems in genomics, survival analysis, and
cancer research. Our school hosts seminars and colloquia
on socioeconomic inequities in the healthcare system. And
yet I am asked to take in all that knowledge and remain
on the sidelines as I see 1,300 innocent lives being lost in
a matter of weeks. Over 300 children are massacred and
5,000 civilians are wounded. How can I be expected to
ignore that?
A temporary ceasefire may have been reached, but make
no mistake, a catastrophe of human suffering looms in the
horizon. Four hundred thousand people - 1 in 3 Gazans
- are without running water today. Fifty thousand people
have been left homeless. That's more than the University's
entire student body. They may not have to deal with nega-
tive 15 degree wind chills, but tonight, they have no place
to sleep and no roof over their heads because their homes
were blown up and destroyed. As we celebrate the inaugu-
ration of President Obama, in some remote corner of the
world, a young child is digging through the rubble to find
the charred remains of his mother's body. How can anyone
tell me that isn't relevant?
Don't let anyone tell you this is about politics or contro-
versy. This is about a humanitarian crisis. It has nothing
to do with black or white or brown, rich or poor, Arab or
Israeli, Muslim or Jewish. Too many excuses have been
made for our inaction and too many false reasons given
for why we should continue about our daily lives without
a care for the pains of the rest of the world. Today we must

say enough.
Let us shelve for goodthe stereotypical view of the "ugly
American": narrow-minded, self-centered, absorbed in a
little bubble, nodding along to an iPod and utterly oblivi-
ous to the rest of the world. Let's look beyond the narrow4
confines of our pristine campus. Let's have the strength to
dream of a better, more peaceful world.
The past weeks have seen hundreds of our fellow stu-
dents take to the streets, braving the bitter cold, to make
their voices heard. Some would criticize those of us who
choose to speak up; such matters are better left to the Unit-
ed Nations, they remark sarcastically. President Obama
addressed such "haters" in his Inaugural Address. "Their
memories are short," he said. "For they have forgotten
what this country has already done; what free men and
women can achieve when imagination is joined to common
purpose, and necessity to courage."
Michigan is no ordinary school, and ours is no ordinary
student body. We inherit a rich and storied heritage of stu-
dent activism and we must strive to live up to its legacy.
After all, it was Michigan students who protested against
apartheid South Africa. When this university wouldn't hire
black professors, it was our students who took over admin-
istration buildings. When President Johnson ordered the
bombing of North Vietnam, our students - and faculty -
united behind the rallying cry of "Not in our name." With
such a powerful precedent before us, how then can we b
silent today?
These are powerful times we live in. Who could have
ever imagined that a black man with a middle name of
Hussein would become President? Let us draw strength
from the symbolism of that moment and draw the cour-
age to speak up for our convictions, to turn our attention
beyond our problem sets and our papers and our classes.
Let it not be said that the students at this great institution'
the leaders of the future, were deaf to the pleas of suffering
Gazans. Let it not be said that we considered their plight
"irrelevant."
Hamdan Yousuf is a Michigan Student Assembly
representative from the School of Public Health.

vWM FOP, MOT VOTING
ok O ..a.$1r"A 3AI
~jog~)J50 RL,1-,11 -ic
-b 51? 4-5 Th 47Ata-L
A~

i
C
I
I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 26, 2009 -5A

Avoiding spoilers
like the plague

You thinking what I'm thinking?" "Yea. Arby's it is."
Notorousl y bad

Spoiler alert! This column may con-
tain crucial plot information from
my next column. Don't keep reading
if you don't want to know what happens in
two weeks.
This is your last chance.
OK. To those coura-
geous men and women 3
among you who braved-
the spoiler warning,
congratulations, there
aren't actually going to be
spoilers after all - mainly BLOCK
because even I don't know
what I'm going to write
about in two weeks time. But aren't you glad
to have been warned? To those of you who
cling to this column's every word (Hi, Mom),
aren't you glad that next week hasn't been
ruined for you?
Spoilers (information about the plot of
something not yet released) are becoming a
real problem - nay, a plague - for the busy
TV viewer. They have infested the Internet,
private conversations, news publications and
even television itself. And like any plague,
the only way to avoid spoilers is complete
solitary confinement.
As someone who principally watches
plot-driven shows - "Lost" and "Heroes"
especially - and reality competitions (I loves
me some "So You Think You Can Dance"),
it's very important to me not to know what's
coming next. But, sadly, my life cannotbe
spent entirely in front of the television, and
sometimes I have to wait a day or more
before I watch the latest episode of one of my
shows. That will be happening for this entire
season of "Lost," for instance. I need to be at
the Daily on Wednesday nights putting out
The B-side for you all to read the next morn-
ing while you talk about what happened to
Locke and Sawyer on the island.
When I miss a show like "Lost," I have no
choice but to become a hermit crab until I get
a chance to watch the new episode, emerging
from my shell only to order food or use the
bathroom. And even those things sometimes
have to get put on hold (thank God for empty
Mountain Dew bottles).
Like real hermit crabs, I also can't log
on to Facebook, because people might have
changed their statuses to relevant things
like "OMG I CAN'T BELIEVE (important
plot-related thing) HA1PPENED ON THAT
SHOW!t!!" I can't go to any site with news;
even Yahoo and CNN run stories ranging
from pure plot information to actor profiles
that might indicate whether an actor has
left a show - which usually means they got
killed-off. Ifnothing else, these sites always
say who got voted off of "American Idol."
And I can't even use AIM, just in case some-
one sends me an excited but overly informa-

tive instant message, meaning well but not
realizing my ignorance.
But more importantly, I can't even watch
TV. Bravo is always running ads for "Top
Chef" and "Project Runway," which I rarely
have the time to watch when they actually
air. So when I see a commercial for the next
episode, it gives away who was or wasn't
eliminated in the episode I missed.
For shows like "Lost" and "Heroes," the
spoilers can be a matter of life and death (for
the characters, if not me). If an expendable
character is on the brink of death at the end
of an episode, but I miss the one that follows,
I'll inevitably find out whether that person
died in the ads for the next episode. This
completely ruins the suspense of the episode
I have yet to watch, turning me off to the
series as a whole.
What has made this such an epidemic
is the fact that most people are not as kind
as I was at the beginning of this column.
Internet blogs and Facebook users rarely
provide spoiler warnings. Commercials
for TV shows always show clips from the
upcoming episode before viewers have a
chance to realize what show is being adver-
tised and avert their gaze. Admittedly,
when people talk about a TV event that has
already happened, it might not technically
be a spoiler, but it's close enough that it
pisses me off.
Yep, Dumbledore
dies. Olops. Sorry.
If any of you think I'm overreacting, mayI
bring you back in time to when a certain tale
of witchcraft and wizardry was just releas-
ing its sixth installment? (SPOILER ALERT)
Perchance you remember a certain old
wizard who met a certain demise. Perhaps
you were one of the unlucky few to be the
victim of a "Dumbledore dies" flyer, Inter-
net site, T-shirt, e-mail, Facebook status or
overheard conversation. Imagine having to
avoid something that sinister and ubiquitous
on a weekly basis. That is the torment of the
TV fan who also happens to have a real life
(however nerdy that life may be).
Well, that brings this episode toa close.
On the next "TV/New Media Column," did
Jamie escape from the pit of snakes and dis-
mantle the bomb? Yes, he did, because you
can clearly see him alive in one of the clips in
the commercial. Dammit.
Block will inflict grave injury upon you
if you send him spoilers. At your own risk,
e-mail him atjamblock@umich.edu

New biopic of The
Notorious B.I.G. does no
justice to the life of the
inspiring rapper
By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
The music of The Notorious B.IG.
seems to strike a chord
with everyone in our
generation, and it tran-
scends race, gender Notorious
and socioeconomic sta-
tus more than 10 years At Showcase
after his death. Even and Quality16
University students Fox Searchlight
from far more privi-
leged backgrounds
tape posters of him to their dorm room

walls. This is a big part of why he has
become one of the most iconic rappers
ever. But on the basis of his character-
ization in "Notorious," maybe he's not
so worthy of that status.
The movie is certainly well-inten-
tioned. It would have to be, since Biggie's
longtime friend Sean "Diddy" Combs,
who has spent significant portions of
his own career immortalizing the man's
image, is the executive producer. And
there's never any hint of maliciousness
on the part of perfectly competent direc-
tor George Tillman Jr. ("Men of Honor")
or the actor who portrays Christopher
"Biggie" Wallace, rapper Jamal "Gravy"
Woolard. But once all of Biggie's bases
have been covered, the audience still lacks
a deep understanding of just why the man
was so well-loved despite his many flaws
(including, as the film makes obvious, his
disrespect of women).
The opening scenes establish Wallace

as a relatively well-off inner-city youth.
He had a stable home life with a dot-
ing mother and attended a nice school
where students wore uniforms. In fact,
he seemed to start dealing drugs purely
by choice - the only explanation given
is that he felt the hoodlum life "calling"
to him. What did he see in the thugs on
the street that made him want to become
one? Did he find the lifestyle glamorous,
or was it just peer pressure? These are the
sorts of questions that this film should've
explored.
Mostly, "Notorious" tells a fairly typi-
cal rags-to-riches story: Biggie and his
crew put together a mixtape to give
to Puffy (Derek Luke, "Miracle at St.
Anna") at Bad Boy Records, who signs
him. Eventually, word spreads and Biggie
puts a best-selling album together and
subsequently must deal with the perils
of fame.
See NOTORIOUS, Page 8A

'Blart' only protects corporate sponsors

r

HATE THE OSCARS?
For an audio conversation about this year's Oscar
nominees from the Daily Arts staff, check online at
michigandaily.com/video

"Ge
Cafe!"
As the
skateb
ing
close i
eponyr
Paul
mall
guard
wrong
at th
time, t

By BLAKE GOBLE chants who flaunt themselves'
DailyArts Writer shamelessly in "Paul Blat: Mall
Cop," a cloying advertisement dis-
t him! He's in the Rainforest guised as a kid flick. Kevin James
bellows the main bad guy. ("I Now Pronounce You Chuck
extreme & Larry") plays Paul, a security
oard- guard with a constantly quivering
criminals lip. He's a mall defender incapable
n on the Pau Blart of getting a "real" job as a sheriff.
mous But when Paul's New Jersey mall
Blart, a WaI B comes under attack by hipster hoo-
security At Showcase ligans, Paul suddenly finds himself
in the andQuality16 alone, tasked with saving several
place workerswhile usingasnanybrand-
e wrong Columbia name items as possible. With his
he film's compassion, cleverness and PG

erism and pratfalls.
But, surprise surprise, "Mall
Cop" is forgettable fodder. Granted,
it's a film for 10 year olds and the
humor seldom goes beyond that of
slightly rude. Food, falls and fights
are what pose for humor here. But
when no one in an audience of kid-
dies and their parents is laughing
(which was apparently the goal

here), the film's in trouble.
Although accidentally funny on
about five occasions, "Mall Cop" is
awful. When James mumbles about
peanut butter making him happier,
he's just milking the loveable loser
routine. When he's gazing at a pret-
ty woman from his Segway, every-
one can predict he's about to run
See BLART, Page 8A

purpose becomes perfectly clear.
It's the climactic final scene, but
the only thing that really matters
is whether or not Paul still has that
Hallmark card for his sweetheart.
A nicely lit, perfectly in-focus Hall-
mark card.
Aldo, Macy's, Victoria's Secret,
Champs Sports and the now-
defunct Sharper Image are among
the many consumer-friendly mer-

An ad disguised
as a kid flick.
sense of humor, Blart's here to save
the day. In other words, this is "Die
Hard" with a penchant for consum-

$100 Off
*ifyouenrollbeforeFebtihforacoursestartingin
Apr iMay
Course Starts:
Feb 61h, 8th,11t

I



I S

FRIDAY, JANUARY 30
at -Aill Aditnrilim

j F a fundraiser for
* jcArk
7 4. wwwtheark org

i

A,


6A- Monday, January 26, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily- michigandailycom

PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-aa25.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL mined. an
central campus. 734-741-93001.
PRKG SPACES 2 blacks frnm B-
School at Hill and Chutrchs. $75/ma.
734-260140013.
!AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfutrnished twa bedreom.
Clese to UIM catepus. A/C, dish-
washter, laundry, balceny, free parking.
Call 734-944-24115.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrme hi-level m/
1.5 bathss, furtniture & balceny. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net inclutded w! each apt. gamee ream,
ftttess ream and muachs tnre. 741-9311
svww.annarheraparttests.net
!!CORNER HOUSE AITeS!!! 2 & 3
lsdres fatly farnished, lets of cleset
space, garage pkg, 111 Directv with
DVR all itncluded. (734)741-9311
svww.anstarhrapartteenss.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacieots remedeled apt. with refin-
shted hardweed flione.tew kitchsen and
hash. Availahle Fall. 734-944-24115.
1rBDR. &TFF APTS1
I$00-$6001
SEPT. 2009
COIPROPERTIES
L3-63-560J
!!HALF MONTH FREE!! !!Avail
Pall 2009!! (Sign tsp hefore Jan. 31st
atnd get onee half moe. free ass 2 hdrm.
apts.-up se $71111oel.)
1 & 2 hedreemstsps. (can live 2 er 4
peeple) 715 Churchs St. & 721 Chsurch
St. - Incredihle lecatien! Across frem
[ast Quad!!
Beautsiful, spacieus, quiet. Futrnished/
unsfurnished avail. Launtdry,
parkinsg, heat and water paid by land-
lerd.,ste pets, nsteeking. Stmall man-
agemetscompany with excellent
recerd of personsal service. We previde
first rate service! Lease with a
company that trutly cares!
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
fer Bolbbie: 734.321.1245.
2-BED 2-Bets!
515 Walnut: tHnge apt., great fer 3 er
4, tosesofsunlights. furnishted, new
kitchen, laundry and parking!
ssww.varsitymassageteent.cem
17341 668-1111.

WilsonWhite

5 1 LCURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARwTMEN TS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED- IN
UNI!
(U,1pscale ,5 bedroom
apartmtents C? 11
Churc~l! T keyj are
stowic cctr~teutd 5
bedroom, 2.5 baid,
apartmtents, with <-31
M/e r t /aCtJ7JvfrO2.tc.5f
31r(-171tieus, 116 a
waker an rts rer in
l1 E'1it!

coupon for every new sour
We offer many amenities such as:
Ffee Wireleas Internet
Ff88 Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out wby!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48204
*830 SYLVAN 3 bdrm. Near Cent.
Casep. & B-school. Haredwoed firs. At-
tached garage. Prkg. Aug. 119. $1695.
Ldry. & D~ryer. 248-515-7441.
02.04.2009 - START planning stew! U
ef M Houssing lair in te Michsigass
Unien ballreem; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Step by and find year heusing
fer test year...now! Wilsen White
Management 734-995-9211.
www.wilsonwliitemanagement.com
I & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 4112 till St. &
1 313 S. Staute. Sept. 09u Ldry.. A/C,
seat, free prkg. Call 734-9114-6735.
3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1500/Month
1120 S. Forest
CopL perties
734-663-5609
2 DR]M apt. 11114 5. ForestM.
May Lease. $8111/tee.
Carlsetspreperties.cese 734 332 611111.
3 BDRMVIAPT! 111145S. Forest #13.
May Lease. $12111/me.
Carlsenproperties.cese 734 332 611111.
3 BDRM. APTS. Last U. $1625/tee.
Fare, heat/water inet. On site prkg. Fall
119. Peppers Properties. 811-231-11229.
MUST SEE! HI-level dssples just ene
block te Rackhame. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea-
sores dishwashser, carpet, fireplace and
a separate D~ining Reese.
Parking included.
Call P~at 734-663-41011.

WilsonWhite
40'1 East
Madison
Fedrt-oYvI+ td
aplrftun.eets -cof- FUL
2 000 c , Cre fof
Mdisrons ery
?Ochu i-c!. F oof paws,
95w~obw.

331 Catherine: Two apartments in a
large house, great Kerrytown location.
www.varsitymeanagemeentcome
1734) 668-11111.
6-BEDROOM House! 331 Cathser-
lee: 2 full kitchsens, 2 full baths, great
for 6- 8 people. Close so Downtowns,
Zingerman's & sumemer farm mearket!
www.varsitymanageseens.com
(734) 668-1111.
nun 2-BEDROOM apartments**
Fall ansd May leases available.
Spacious apts, great locution, Free
interods. 912S. Forest. Call or emsail
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-82211 or
info apostrealt52properties.pom4
***FOR SEPT, 2889 Lease**
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
opt avail. www.jmsprop.cons 769-71125.
Aparments vailable!

904 5. FOREST # 2. May 119. 4 large
bdrms. 13511 Geddes for Fall 119. Large
house,.flesh fully famnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or balszellproperties.nes
6 BDRM HOUSE. 5112 Benjamin. 2
bosh, basement, wshr/dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, baseseent, 2 fridges,
front yards & deck in buck. $33111.
Call 248-214-87118!
www.varstywanaeent.,som
Mlaaagemmeit:
917 Packard
Between Vaughn & E.
University
Large 2-bedroom
apartments
Each has a patio or balcony!
Great for 3 -4 peopte
Furnished, laundry, parking
6 BDRM. FALL 809. 716 K. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. 011' State St.
$3411 neg. plus sil. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mit. walk so catmpuss. 3 full
bats. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 411" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $300011/mo. 734-321-11126.
.o.0cS the '01%.
it,,,4
ON'hed mod OVW
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
w'ww.ainarboralpartffelts.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BA] ItS, Porn,, free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-1249.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bash., 2 kitchens. 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive aod let. By Puackard and Arch.
$3511 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 5111 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5ub.
$3775 seg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catheriue, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close so Kerrysown 734-663-8989
Oldlownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1221 Prospect, 2 Basts., Lots of porkinsg.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net

5 BDRM. PALL 89. 5311 5. Fourth. 2
bash. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 min. walk to
Unless. $2399 + atil. 734-719-5719.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I Bdrm. apt. Hardwood-
floors, buy window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2485.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES; '09
Spring and Full 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site as www.atimandproperties.com for
more info or cult 734-973-7368.,
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, fusrnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
.OCCUPANCY
Great lucatun. 1328 S. University
Negutiable Rates & Flexile Term
Furnished, Parking, FRtE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedruoms
Call Tuday!

TOfoer Plaza Coo -Cnium
Q.t&%uHifci. kht m-C' nj-
I 734-663-15301
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available foe
IFall 119!! Awesome stusdent rental ott
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchsen, parking. aud laundry. Shsort
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Fern (734) 277-6748 for seore info.
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 14& 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free

'(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
*nDon't miss eateon the
January Blowout Deals!!!
Get $5111 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This absolutely ends on. 1/31/2119!
Cull the, Best at 734-761-2611
univers itytowers-mi.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Pall Lease, 7 Bdrme., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Ot dtewnrealty. net
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10l.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Cull today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-811111primeshecom
*Amenities vanies, by location
continued on
the next page

Issa PropertiesY p i
Funse otoa)1&2r.adIncludes heal, water, and parking Lae o a n
3 & 4 Bdrm. Housnes AvailableSetm r
Now Leaning Fall 2009
Call Today fur oar Specialsn oe : yM cia al
734-882-4448
lnfo@innaprupertien.com
RELEASE DATE- Monday, January 26, 2008
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce NicholsaLwin
ACROSS a4sees 30-Down 34 BMW rinaI 47 Lucy's landluady
1 Psychic's unset film 30 Lbhasa small 48 Verne, me Vchy
4 Fairy tale lurker 8 Mouse aed flag 5anGobst
9Perpendlicular to squirrel 37 Flee-tune 80 Swindles
the keel e nyaonee 38Refused 84 Green-eyed
14 mNvelint Tolsony 7 lnwery islued 42 Swiss city on the moester
15 Lke Swiss welcome Rhine 55 Critt enthe
cheese 8 Caustic potash 43 Tallest land headlightn"
me Stacking thread 9 Sheltered, at animal 87 Ump's thumb-
17 30-Down's rle in see 44 Deat ineus exteeded call
58-Across and mu Ships' seepage stolee ginds 08 Johannesburg's
4-Don cnllection areas 48 Wooded land: Afbr
20 Snicker 11 Devereux's walkways 59 "You bet!"'
2t 'The at o earldom ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Sleepy Hollow" 12 Byoneeself
2Conent 13ODans say NASCENT CO E T
25Former 18eProfessors5jb ALOHAD SCANNE
signiicanteothers security a T L 0 0 I S M I 5S5S0OIU N I
28 Red-blonded 18 Philadelphia H O S U
28 Oazes hockey player
31tCances, asa 230GistCRY I N Gt J A G
NASA misson 24500sheets SAS HA E MAI L HOA X
32 PoetTeasdale 26 Emulates Diddy A P LOM B A LGBA S R A
35Seep's cry 27Memorilenews CO OP L AD LE GBA I N
368ontneascreen item ARM S OL E S M OKE D
37OGarment bottom 28 Like Hummers S T 0 N E C 0 L B I T A L Y
38 Consume the 30 Actrtn whom t
Iast this puzzle is SO G KO1 REN1
4Hog home dedicate
41tnlack, inpoetry (1/e6/192- T HEBGA RD E N OFEDE N
43oPituitaryand 8126/8)1 ANNE T TE EDA S NE R
thyroid 3ike adog's hind B 0 A T E E S S E A H A R E
44 Swiss monetary leg xwordeditoraole.com n1/26t09

WilsnWhite
House, lailable fall
2009
3 bemdrooms.
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms.
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 edlrooms:
314 E. Sunmmit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
6 Besdrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
Tledrooms.e
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. Stage $5500.

I

Deadline for lie ads is 11:30am onE

y pror to publicaton. Classification:
010-LstFund

4

Rates: $4.30 per i netforthe first ussua and $2,15 per linetfor each
additional consecutive isue.fie Frequerncyand Bulk cnrracts ars availabe-
contact our staft for details 9 Students nay raceive a025% discount when
ads are pficed in person with asvalid studert ID (nan-organizatonal, non-
busi0555 a0s only)* All sos must be prepsid onlss prior billin priviages
hays been satablishod * We socept Vsa, Mastercard, Amerosrn Express,
Oiscover, cash'or chank " ForDClossified Display sdvertising, pess eallone
ot our Account Exeutives
I day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days

020 -For Sae
02 - Park ng

unit
40 Ab :.from the
beginning
48 Lve-crazy Le
Pew
49 Becomes
enraged
em Pronto
03 Hacked
5e 1988830-Dawn
filmn
in Machoatypes
em Canada
neighbnr, for
short
82 Churchil' sign
83 Mushers'
vehicles
64 Remoed frum
the chess hoard
48 Soph undljr.
DOWN
1Wrapper fnr
Santa
2 Airtravler's
assignment
3 Modelssance

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 17 12 13
14 15 16
17 18 19
20 21
22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
31 32 33 34 35
1 36 37 38 39
40 41 42 43
44 45
46 47 48 49 54
1 52 153 54 55
58 57 66 59
6q 61 62
$3 64 65
By Edgar Fontaine 01/26/09
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc

2 lines BBB 12.90
alines 129u cc'3
4lines 17.0 25,.0
Policies:
Abbreeniations: Olysanadabbeaions asdfi
VM o filur opbia n 4 adv riseenoray:re
muall beliied t usigi n subsequen'issue
wl 'b repibl ocai sifidadvrieer rorvi
Rates: Alicang s sowroa heoinrat s cinesat

040 Urrmputers
040 -Technoeog
00 Purrilure
C60 -or Rit
07 -BSbel
080 Seanice
090 -Help Wanted
093 'Summ rploymeta
005 --Cld Cary
10 0 Tickes &Traeel
120 -Areounemerts
123 -Webs tes
125o Muc
130 -Poom'mates
140 -oo & Enertanment
15- Persoral
160 - Pet

di by1 D 0il r acete.Misprints:T

4

son, o for publishing inc

Iorc d itspecifit issu
>to n icret int ion UM
notefirstdy/ofpuicatier
Ana mray be exteddal
le ndn te. 1'Refunds:
e rive manessrheudmhasrot/ve
nor tulshartisets v r

0 scuiv rte if e Ietd an pad i ul y 1130 ecoorgials
laerir:ore/ycacelianadbeorypbiato1daiet norefun
:rr pulse.Refusal: Aldsa ubectvoerig an aprva.e
saelo i citiatmtanfcealu ue.TDrave1te:igh1t 90

A

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



6 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 26, 2009 - 7A

p The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, January 26, 2009 - 7A

KAMPFER
From Page 1A
Kampfer was released from the
hospital Sunday after being held
for precautionary measures, ac-
cording to Michigan officials.
"I have a strained neck right
now," Kampfer told the Detroit
Free Press in a Sunday phone in-
terview. "I had no relapse of what
happened earlier. Hopefully, I'll be
back this weekend."
Conboy's initial hit was pre-
sumably in retaliation against
Kampfer for knocking Tropp off
his skates with a clean open-ice hit
moments earlier. Tropp received
a five-minute major for slashing,
two 10-minute misconducts and
a double game-disqualification,

which means a minimum three-
game suspension. But Conboy was
just penalized with a double minor
for roughing.
"I don't want to comment on it
because I didn't see it," Michigan
coach Red Berenson said after Sat-
urday's game. "Their coach said
he would deal with their player."
After the game, Michigan State
coach Rick Comley quickly con-
demned his players' actions.
"They fought hard, and what
happened at the end is not good
for hockey," Comley told the State
News. "I'll deal with our kid."
Senior News Editor Trevor
Calero, Daily Sports Writer
Gjon Juncaj and Managing
News Editor Jacob Smilovitz
contributed to this report.

Ex-'U' student caughtin sex sting

Student arraigned
for prostitution,
using computer to
commit a crime
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
A former University student was
arraigned Thursday for engaging in
prostitution and using a computer
to commita crime.
Diane Brown, spokeswoman
for the University's Department
of Public Safety, said the Ann Ar-
bor Police Department received an
anonymous tip in November about

someone who was conducting
prostitution. AAPD investigators
staged a sting at an Ann Arbor hotel
in which an investigator posed as a
prospective client.
The 21-year-old Ann Arbor na-
tive was arrested on site, and pros-
ecutors subsequently authorized
two misdemeanor charges for pros-
titution/soliciting and using a com-
puter to commit a crime.
Brown said the woman had ad-
vertised her . services on several
online sites, but her prostitution
activity is a more serious crime.
"There are a lot of things that
are out on the Internet that are il-
legal activities that are rarely dealt
with," Brown said. "Her illegal ac-
tivity was the incident at the hotel.

If a prosecutor reviews the case and
sees that the computer was also a
part of contributing to the crime,
then they will add on that second
charge of using a computer to com-
mit a crime. "
Defense attorney Nicholas Rou-
mel said the incident is not what
people might envision as stereo-
typical prostitution.
"I think it's a somewhat sym-
pathetic situation," he said. "I'm
hoping there will be a reasonable
outcome."
According to Brown, the woman
wasn't registered for classes this se-
mester or last semester but was en-
rolled at the University last winter.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said she couldn't

comment about why the woman
dropped out of the University due
to privacy reasons.
This is the second case in the last
month where a student associated
with the University has advertised
herself online.
Brown said this incident was
unrelated to last month's sex case
where a University professor solic-
ited sexual acts from a law student
who advertised on Craigslist to
help pay tuition costs.
Yaron Eliav, associate professor
in the Department of Near East-
ern Studies, and the Law School
student both pleaded no contest
to a misdemeanor charge of using
a computer to commit a crime in
December.


TOEFL
From Page 1A
Other exams are administered on
a computer, which MELAB pro-
moters argue can be intimidating
and problematic with technology
glitches.
The English Language Institute
attributes the popularity of the
exam to the MELAB's ability to ac-
commodate numerous test takers
because with a paper-based exam,
limited computer availability isn't
an issue.
The roughly three-hour exam
costs $80, with an additional $40
for the oral exam. The TOEFL
costs $140 and has paper and In-
ternet test-taking options.
The English Language Insti-
tute, founded in 1941, has gained
recognition for its language re-
search and teaching programs.
Today it's well-known for its

testing resources, including the
MELAB.
Additionally, the center plans to
promote the program and encour-
age those schools that have not yet
made MELAB acceptable in their
admissions to do so. While the
MELAB has experienced notable
growth, it is currently nowhere
near as widely-accepted as the
TOEFL.
About 250 institutions accept
the MELAB. The TOEFL is cur-
rently accepted by more than
6,000 institutions inmore than 130
countries.
MELAB Coordinator Barbara
Rose said the market for English
language proficiency exams is
likely to continue growing.
"It's flourishing. As more and
more people come to the U.S. and
Canada to further their education,
they have to show their English
proficiency," Rose said. "We're
very busy."

Two surgeon generals to talk at event

Elde
dis
tom
Two
will pe
on car
addres
the hea
The
Practic
Public
annual

'rs, Carmona will tied "Public Health Leadership
to Improve the Health of Young
cuss the state of People."
The anticipated highlight of the
youth health day will be the surgeon generals'
panel that is set to include ques-
orrow in League tions from the audience about pub-
lic health issues.
By EMILY ORLEY Joycelyn Elders, the 15th U.S.
For the Daily surgeon general, and Richard Car-
mona, the 17th U.S. surgeon gen-
former surgeon generals eral will take questions and speak
articipate in a symposium throughout the day.
mpus tomorrow aimed at Also included in the event is
sing strategies to improve Marian Wright Edelman, the
alth of young people. founder and president of the Chil-
Office of Public Health dren's Defense Fund.
e, a part of the School of Elders is currently a pediatri-
Health, will host its fifth cian and public health adminis-
practice symposium enti- trator. She was a vice admiral in

the Public Health Service Com-
missioned Corps and the first
African-American appointed to
U.S. surgeon general, when then-
President Bill Clinton appointed
her to the post.
Carmona is currently a physi-
cian and public health admin-
istrator. He was also a vice
admiral in the Public Health Ser-
vice Commissioned Corps. Presi-
dent George W. Bush appointed
him to the post of surgeon general
in 2002.
The event will take place tomor-
row at theLydia Mendelssohn The-
ater in the Michigan League. It will
begin at 10 a.m. and conclude at
4:30 p.m.
There will also be a live Internet

video cast.
Victor J. Strecher, a profes-
sor and director at the Center for
Health Communications Research
at the University's School of Public
Health and Medicine, will speak at
the luncheon, which is also part of
the symposium.
The purpose of the day is to
examine the issue of public health
leadership and how it relates to
the complexity of youth health.
The event is also a forum for public
health officials and leaders to gain
insight on how to address the chal-
lenges of improving the health of
young people.
For more information or to
register for the event, contact the
Michigan League.

the michigan daily

HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks AARDVARK
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail. INES! Your
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call Campus Man
(734) 649-5549 anytime. to visit www.
local website
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail in apartments a:
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heal and bedrooms ve
water incl. $1999/ mo. 734-665-8825. Lots of 2 be
www.eampusrealty.com available toe
priced, most
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi- furnished an
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/ The rush is
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep- showing hous
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty each week.
Co. 734-368-0256. schedule a pi
rental agent.
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop, BIG HSE: 5
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water Living, dinin
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry., study, Free ldr
$1450-$1750,.No smkg./no pets. HOUSE FOR
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250. U o
ehtseng@comcast.net d . 6 pe/pl
ldry. $2650/in
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT! GREAT 2 B
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms tion. Heat/w
universitytowers-mi.com 734-665-8825
734-761-2680
APARTM
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm.
700+ sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave.
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003. 3 Bedrooms
AVAIL. IMMED. 2 bdrm., hardwood 727 Packard (
floor, full basement, 2 car garage, suit- 915 Oakland
able for grad student. $1150/mo. Heat 1015 Packard
and water included. (734) 662-9446. $1355
205 N. Divis
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts. $1995
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com 4 Bedrooms
CRAWFORD HOUSE 1203 Oakland
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still 929 Church $
available at 1115 Willard. Free prkg. 731 Packard (
$3299/mo. Campus Realty $2695
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com 5 Bedrooms
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint- 205 N. Divisio
ments available too if you need them! 916 Sybil (Bra
Wilson White Management 1021 E. Univ
734-995-9200. Peppers) $249
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com 1307 S. State
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madiso
1014 Vaughn
$3695
1814 Geddes (
8 Bedrooms
WiisonWhite 325 E. Jeffer
$4295
Many Studi
We Have Moved whi a Manag
www.wilsonwl
campus@wils
CAMPUS LA
moved onto prkg, ldry, no
includes all ut
camnpus you canl tpetiet@
now find us next
to Pizza House N\\
Man

KS AND WOLVER- KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hill and
attention please! furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003.
porch & much more. 741-9300.
agement, Inc. invites you www.annarborapartments.net GREAT LOCATION, 2 doors east of
CampusMgt.com, the best CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 bath. house has
for the best selection of CAMPUS PROPERTIES screened front porch, giant Living
nd houses. We specialize AVAILABLE MAY 2009 Room, d/w & microwave. Parking in
d apartments with 3 to 6 lot behind house. 2 bdrms. could be

y close to central campus.
droom apts. and smaller
o!All are attractively
include parking, many are
d some include utilities.
on and we are actively
ing to hundreds of people
Contact us by phone to
ersonal showing with our
Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
g rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
ry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
R RENT @ 904 Packard.
Free prkg. No pets. Free
no.+util. 241-195-4811.
DRM apt in prime loca-
ater included. $999/mo.
. www.campusrealty.com
IENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009
Furnished) $1890
(Grand Victorian Home)
(Near State and Packard)
sion (Cathedral Ceilings)
$2825
3195
Newly Remodeled)
on (Historic Home) $3125
and New House) $3295
ersity (Across From Sgt.
95
$2595
on (Brand New!) $3995
n (Plenty of Parking)
(Close to Diag) $3795
son (Victorian Mansion)
o, 1, and 2 bedrooms
available too! Wilson
ement 734-995-9200
'hitemanagement.com
sonwhitemanagement.
ARGE 4 bdrm. apt. furn.,
n-smkr only, $1680/mo.
lities (734)-973-6499.
emerson-schools.org
\Varsaty
nagenaent
(734) 668-1 1
mpus Locations
asonable Prices"'
dishwashers. AC. arkine

3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. STATE-1 LEFT
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-1 LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 . Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1320 S. University-I LEFT
*Fully Furnished apartment
nParking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
a.) read the daily
b.) do the crossword pzzle
c.) seep and embarss yurslf

LUsed usdoubles! all Put 74.663-4101
used as doubles! Call Pat 734-663-4101.

1-3 PERS. APT. May-Mid-Aug.
Great location! 3rd floor at U-Towers.
Furnished, FREE cable/inter-
net/heat/water. $1100/mo.
810.923.096 / danaumich3,,

WEB DESIGNER NEEDED to re-
design website for Ann Arbor based
company. Flexible hrs.work from
home. Pay hourly or by the job. Please
call Jon (734) 677-5562
II emp Oyme
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
095
CHILDCARE / DRIVER needed M,
W,F 2:45pm-6pm. Dan 649-7009.
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15
yr. old son needed, 10 min. from cam-
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev-
Pra m-k wka ---rvchnn Ow

SPRING BREAK 09 TRAVEL FREE
Hottest Destinations, Hottest Parties
LOW LOW Prices!!Before its too late!!
BOOK NOW!! 1-800-426-7710
www.sunsplashtours.comn

HAVE YOU CONSIDERED teach-
ing? Science and math teachers are in
demand nationwide. Thousands of dol-
lars in tuition scholarships are available
to become a science or math teacher.
Learn how you may qualify. Science or
math degree preferred, with 2.7 G.P.A.
Information Session-Tuesday, Jan 27th
7pm - Malletts Creek Library
3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
To RSVP or more info 419-530-2060
www.teachut3.utoledo.edu
teachut3@utoledo.edu
Now is the time to become a teacher.
WOMEN'S CHAMBER CHORUS
seeking new members, all ages. Mon,

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-H exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
TEST OUR PRODUCT and Get Free
Stuff! Ann Arbor tech startup seeks
volunteers to test our software product.
Your input will directly help drive our
product! TestOurProduct@gmail.com
Rconsidered
Science and math
teachers are in demand nationwide.
Thousands of dollars in tuition
scholarships are available to becomea
science or math teacher. Learn how you
may qualify. Science or math degree
preferred, with 2.7 GP.A.
Information Session
Tuesday, Jan 27th - 7 p.m.
Malletts Creek Library
3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway,
Ann Arbor, M1 48108
ToRS.V.P. or for more information,
call 419.530.2060
www.teachut3.utoledo.edu
teachut3@utoledo.edu
" """'""$"'""E O ORT""

For Tuesday, Jan. 27, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is an excellent day for friendship
and enjoying the company of acquain-
tances. It's easy to feel warmhearted and
friendly with everyone. Someone is
interested in your hopes and dreams for
the future.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Others notice your sympathy to some-
one and your openhearted generosity to
others. This is certainly an opportunity
to demonstrate kindness to others.
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Your appreciation of beauty is height-
ened today. Visit galleries, museums,
beautiful places, buildings with interest-
ing architecture and parks. Enjoy the
beauty of your surroundings.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Feelings of sympathy make you want
to share something that is perhaps jointly
owned with someone else. Or you might
do fundraising or lobby on the behalf of
those who need help.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Conversations with partners are mutu-
ally sympathetic and mutually sensitive.
Each of you knows where the other one
is coming from. It's as if you can read
each other's thoughts.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Co-workers are sympathetic, and vice
versa, today. Someone might confide in
you or, in turn, you might find a sympa-
thetic ear to talk to.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Feelings of love and romance are
heightened today. You're in touch with
your creativity, and you're extra sympa-
thetic with children (should the opportu-
nty arise).

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
A family member might need your
input today. Or perhaps others need a
shoulder to cry on. This, of course.
works both ways. You might be grateful
when you talk to a family member.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Parties will easily come to an agree-
ment today if you're negotiating, signing
contracts or wheeling and dealing in any
way. Conversations with siblings are
friendly and warmhearted.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
You might be tempted to spend money
today on something quite luxurious.
You're definitely ready to give in to your
wants as opposed to your needs.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Because you feel full of warmth and
kindness today, it's easy to be sympa-
thetic and understanding with others.
Others will feel this and be friendly to
you in kind.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You feel kindhearted to everyone
today. You'll definitely put the needs of
others before your own, because i's a
happy choice to make. You feel generous
to all.
YOU BORN TODAY You hare
bright, childlike, intelligent energy. You
learn anything quickly, and many of you
develop skills very young. In fact, some
could bea child prodigy. You constantly
seek new ways to be challenged.
(Patience might be your ultimate chal-
lenge!) You are quick to make friends,
and quick to fall in love. An important
choice awaits you this year. Choosc
wisely.
Birthdate of: Jerome Kern, composer:
Bridget Fonda, actress; Mairead
Corrigan, Nobel Peace Prize laureate.

m

Wilson White
Management
Campus Office
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich
48104

*Ca
@ Rea
Furnished.

runse, oswanr, , parm
1039 Baldwin -4 Bedroom
543 Church St.-OStudio
911 & 1001 S. Forest - 2 Bedrooms
1346& 1506 Geddes - 3 Bedrooms
1015 W. Huron - 2 Bedrooms
801 W. Madison -1 & 2 Bedrooms
331 Packard - 1 & 2 Bedroom
526 & 917 Packard - Large 2 Bedrooms
848 Tappan -1 & 2 Bedrooms
1015 Vaughn -1 & 2 Bedrooms
515 Walnut - Studio, 1 & 2 Bedrooms
521 Walnut -1 & 2 Bedrooms
418 E. Washington - Studios & 1 Bedrooms
331Catherine - 6 BedroomHouse
Call for personalized showings!

A


8A - Monday, January 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

The bigger they are,
the worse their movie

NOTORIOUS
From Page 5A
"Notorious" does its part to
acknowledge that, for better or
worse, the life story of Biggie
Smalls will forever be entwined
with the story of Tupac Shakur
and the East Coast/West Coast
hip hop rivalry of the '90s. Big-
gie, from New York, and Tupac
(Anthony Mackie, "Eagle Eye"),
from Los Angeles, begin their
careers as good friends, and
their paths meet at key points in
the movie. After Tupac was shot
by unidentified assailants in Big-
gie's recording studio, their two
companies grew divided and
tensions escalated to the point
where both icons were shot to
death within months of each
other.
Sadly, the film's script doesn't
volunteer any of the conspiracy
theories that often surround the
three shooting incidents, which
could have at least lent "Noto-
rious" a "JFK" vibe and given
audiencessomethingto debate. It

also could have been worthwhile
to further explore the rivalry
between these two rap artists
and what implications it had on
the genre as a whole. Without
pursuing any of these details, the
movie's story becomes too insu-
lar to care about.
Yes, Biggie was a well-loved
guy. It's obvious in the touch-
ing closing scene that re-creates
his funeral procession through
Brooklyn and shows his moth-
er (Angela Bassett, "Meet the
Browns") crying as she looks
upon the throngs of fans chant-
ing his name. But before this
culmination, she vehemently
disproved of his rapping and
lifestyle, which doesn't make her
final reaction seem well-earned.
Additionally, the epitaph dis-
played on the screen before the
credits intends to sum up Big-
gie's life in one laughably generic
statement ("He proved no dream
is too big"), but it sounds like it
was hastily scribbled by Diddy
on the last day of post-produc-
tion. If the skytruly was the limit
for Biggie, then "Notorious" does
iniustice to the sky.

From the courtroom to the kidnapping, Jack Bauer is kind of a dick.
A non-negotiable comeback

After a lackluster
sixth season, Jack
Bauer is back
with an attitude
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
DailyArts Writer
When a show's plot becomes
contrived and
its viewer-*
ship declines,
sometimes all it 24
needs to recover
is a year-and- SaSon Seven
a-half break. Mondays
At least that's at 9 p.m.
what worked a9X
for "24." After a
noticeable dive
in quality during its sixth season,
FOX's "24" began the redemption
process in its two-night, four-hour
season seven premiere. Each hour
was filled with nonstop action and
thrilling twists that revived the
show's knack for compelling, multi-
dimensional stories.
Set almost two years after the end
of the sixth season, the show first
revisits Jack Bauer, still brilliantly
portrayed by Kiefer Sutherland
("Phone Booth"), as he is being inter-

rogated at a U.S. Senate hearing. In
the hearing, senators question Bauer
about the violent interrogation tech-
niques he used while working for the
now-dismantled Counter Terrorist
Unit. Of course, just a short time into
the questioning, a threat to national
security erupts and Bauer is thrust
back into action and enlisted by the
FBI tohelp followalead.As hebegins
to connect the dots in that way only
he can, he uncovers a multi-layered
conspiracy to hold hostage the gov-
ernment's crucial computer system.
Through all this commotion he is
constantly forced to choose between
following procedure or breaking the
rules to get results. The addition of
the Senate hearing to start the sea-
son gives this struggle a stronger
sense of significance.
Season seven, also introduces
an almost entirely new cast whose
complexities add fresh suspense and
intrigue to the show. New charac-
ter FBI Agent Renee Walker (Annie
Wersching, "General Hospital") has
been hesitant to break with FBI pro-
cedure, but the stress of the escalat-
ing terrorist plot makes her quickly
question her values. The new and
optimistic President Allison Taylor
(Cherry Jones, "The Village"), who
ran on a platform of non-negotiation
with terrorists, may also act contrary
to her previous notions to protect

American lives this season. Refocus-
ing on these multifaceted struggles
is sure to help this season propel
"24" to its former glory.
The fact that "24" contains so
much action while taking place in
real time has always been impres-
sive. But the producers did away
with the iconic clock in the bottom
corner of the screen this season,
using a clock only for transitions
to-and-frotm commoercial hreaks.
This season, the show doesn't cling
to the real-time gimmick as fer-
vently as it once did, and that's a
good thing; it cuts the show some
much-deserved slack.
Not only is "24" well-developed,
its creative team has a high social
awareness which transcends that of
most other popular programming.
More than ever before, this season
focuses on the morality of torture
as an effective method in obtaining
information. Jack's inner battle over
what constitutes right and wrong
combined with the drama of the Sen-
ate hearingembodythis debate. Sim-
ilarly, the genocide occurring in the
fictional African country of Sengala
is an echo of similar crises in Sudan,
Congo and Rwanda. These themes
are debated under the leadership of a
new, female President who promised
to usher in a new age and bring hope
to the. American people. Why does

that all sound so familiar?
Jack Bauer isn't the quintessen-
tial hero. He often does undeniably
terrible things to serve the greater
good, but the real world isn't black
and white, and the two sides of
Jack make his character believable.
Viewers root for President Taylor
to establish her position as a world
leader because her stance on the
civil war in Sengala and overall ide-
alisma is something we would like
to see in our own executive. Even
though "24" avoids mentioning
dates, the use of familiar scenarios
and current events will help view-
ers relate to the show.
TV shows with intricate plots
and well-developed characters are
relatively rare. And even more rare
are those that succeed over a long
period of time. "24" is unique in its
ability to produce both consistently
thrilling action and an intriguing
story, placing it among the essen-
tial TV shows to watch this winter.
Yes, Jack Bauer will still be doing
what he does best - bringing down
terrorists in record time - but "24"
is truly new this season, and it's
bound to be more thought-provok-
ing than it has ever been before. As
long as the writers have learned
not to let the plot get out of control,
"24" will finally return to its must-
see TV status.

Product placement on
its biggest stage ever

BLART
From Page 5A
into that Chrysler. And when
Blart gets harassing phone calls
on his makeshift cell from an
Indian teen, the viewer's mind
wanders off, struggling to find
the humor in the situation.
But the film's fascination comes
in the politics of representation for
mall-going America. And no, this
isn't reading too much into the
film. If you actually see this (for
whatever reason), you'll notice
"Mall Cop" is full of flagranthbrand
gallivanting and mall culture.
Seeing Sony products (Colum-
bia's parent company) strewed
everywhere while the hypogly-
cemic Blart brandishes Pixy Stix

to save his life, one can't help but
wish these items were integrated
with the story in a way that's not
just an infomercial. James Bond at
least made plot devices out of his
cars and alcohol. And remember
Tina Fey and her General Electric
baiting on "30 Rock?" That's how
it's done.
Failure as a comedy and lead
actor showcase aside, "Mall Cop"
is an interesting but depressing
study in what happens when the
studio calls all the shots. Not only
is the climax of the film set in a
Rainforest Cafe, but it features
plenty ofnice close-ups to letpeo-
ple know how kooky and pleasant
dining there really is. Yes, you too
can go to-your local mall and have
an exoticrainforest feast.
Sorry. Almost forgot this was
a movie.

4

4

4

0

4


B The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I January 26,2009

FIVE- FOR-FIVE

4N
Friday Saturday
MICHIGAN 6, MICHIGAN

KRISTA BO'

Sophomore Matt Rust scored the first goal of Saturdays 5-3 win just 36 seconds into the opening period. Michigan added two more scores in the frame to complete the team's second three-goal period of the weekend against the Spartans

Kampfer didn't deserve hit
A bout a half hour after Satur- He played in the Great Lakes tnvi- especially for him.
day's hockey game, Karyn tational on Dec. 27-28, and he's been And it's certainly not a coinci-
Kampfer was visibly upset one of the mainstays on the defense dence that Michigan State forward
in the lobby of Yost Ice Arena. corps since. Corey Tropp's stick happened to
Moments earlier, her son, Michi- Well, until - slash his neck while Kampfer was
gan junior defenseman Steve Saturday. already down on the ice, possibly
Kampfer, was wheeled out of the Tensions already unconscious.
arena on a gurney, held motionless run high in any "People don't realize in the
by a neck brace. He was released rivalry game, blink of an eye, your whole life can
from the hospital yesterday. but that's no change," said Kampfer last month,
That image of Kampfer in a neck excuse for reflecting about the first injury. "I
brace brings back all-too-recent cheap shots had that thought process for a week:
memories. A well-publicized off-ice - especially NICOLE 'Am I going to be OK? Am I going to
assault on Oct. 12 left him hospital- against a vul- be able to play hockey again?"'
ized and put him in a neck brace nerable target. AUERBACH NowKampferwill haveto answer
until Nov. 19. The Spartans those questions - and more.
A speedy rehabilitation process probably knew Besides worrying about doctors
put Kampfer back on the ice in about Kampfer's previous injuries. and the chances of getting back
early December. Teammates said They knew to go after his head and
his return gave the team a boost. neck, weak spots for anyone but See AUERBACH, Page 3B

'M' sweeps MSU again

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Bring on the top team in the
country: Notre Dame.
After extending its six-game
winning streak against Michigan
State with a sweep this weekend,
the No. 8 Michigan hockey team
is ready for perhaps its tough-
est test this season. The Fighting
Irish haven't lost in 20 games and
knocked the Wolverines out of last
year's Frozen Four. And fortu-
nately. for the Wolverines, junior
defenseman Steve Kampfer - who
left Yost Ice Arena on a gurney
Saturday - may even return for
the critical matchup, he told the
Detroit Free Press Sunday.

But there was no need for the
Wolverines to put on their game
faces after winning Saturday
night.
Acting captain Chris Summers
opened his press conference in
a joking manner, offering to ask
the media questions instead of the
other way around, and seemed
relieved that the burden of the
weekend series against the last-
place Spartans was over.
Michigan State came in try-
ing to avoid losing five games in a
season to the Wolverines for the
first time ever and attempting to
partially derail Michigan's post-
season hopes.
The Wolverines had to rebound
from last weekend's home shutout

loss to 11th-place Bowling Green
and inch up into the top-four slots
of the CCHA standings. They did
that with 6-1 and 5-3 wins over the
Spartans.
"To me, you can't beat those
guys enough, can't score enough
goals on them," Summers said.
The Wolverines (12-6 CCHA,
18-8 overall) are now in a three-
way tie for fourth in the confer-
ence, just four points behind
second-place Miami (Ohio).
"We're looking at the standings
and we're looking at five teams
ahead of us and you've got to win
these games," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said. "It doesn't matter if
See SPARTANS, Page 2B

With less than a minute to play, Michigan
Stateforward Andrew Conboy punched
Michigan defenseman Steve Kampfer
from behind, knocking him to the ice.

As Kampfer lay motionless on the ice, Spar-
tan forward Corey Tropp skated toward the
boards and, with his stick, slashed Kampfer
in the head and neck region.

Senior volverine torwara I ir vinier was
closest to the play and first to retaliate
after Tropp's slashing. A small scuffle
ensued among the other skaters.

Iropp received a major penary for slasi-h
ing, two10-minute misconducts and a
double-game disctuaification. Conboy
drew a double minor for roughing.

"Coaches don't send someone on the ice
to do something, no matter what fans
think," Michigan State coach Rick
Comley said after the game.

MEN'S BASKETBALL
Improved shooting fuels
first win in four games

FOOTBALL
Greg Robinson talks to media

Nine players score
in Beilein's 500th
NCAA victory
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
When his team finally hit a string
of 3-pointers after its recent cold
shooting slump, Michigan men's

basketball coach John Beilein felt
thankful - and a little liberated.
"This is like being freed from
bondage, are you kidding me?"
Beilein
said with NORTHWESTERN 59
a laugh MICHIGAN 68]
after the --- -----
Wolver-
ines' 68-59 win over Northwestern
on Saturday at Crisler Arena.
"After shooting below 26 percent
from behind the arc in their previ-

ous three losses, the Wolverines
needed a bit of comic relief.
Michigan responded and went
22-of-52 from the field, including a
5-of-12 3-point performance in the
second half.
And for a team that relies heavily
on shots behind the are, any bit of
help was gladly appreciated.
"You can't go down four straight
in the Big Ten and expect to win,"
said redshirt freshman guard Laval
See WILDCATS, Page 4B

By ANDY REID on the court, Robinson held his
Daily Sports Editor first official press conference since
coning to Ann Arbor.
Saturday night, there was a new After being fired as Syracuse's
addition to the usual procession of head coach with two games left
Michigan football coaches, players last season, Robinson consid-
and recruits who occupy the first ered his coaching options. He
few rows of Crisler Arena during decided to stick with the college
Michigan basketball home games. game instead of going back to the
Greg Robinson, who was hired National Football League, where
last week as the Wolverines' new he picked up two Super Bowl rings
defensive coordinator, took an with the Denver Broncos.
aisle seat three rows from the "I could have seen mtyself
court and took the time to chat going back to pro football," Rob-
with the football players sur- inson said. "And that would have
rounding him. been fine. But I said there was
About fifteen minutes before something in college that still
the Michigan faced Northwestern really excited me. I like college

football."
While he was entertaining
offers from several places, Robin-
son placed just one call to put his
name in for consideration for a job
- to Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez.
During the Big East coaches'
conference in the summer of
2005, Robinson's first year with
the Orange, Robinson said he and
Rodriguez developed something
of a friendship or at least, as
friendly as two opposing coaches
can be - while both were in the
conference.
"I developed a comfort level
See ROBINSON, Page 4B

SANDALS'S TAKE ICE DANCING STARS
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TO A WATER POLO GAME? DIDN'T THINK THIS WEEKEND, TWO TEAMS OF ICE DANCERS TRAVELED FROM
SO. IN HIS SPORTSMONDAY COLUMN, NATE SANDALS TELLS YOU ANN ARBOR TO CLEVELAND FOR THE U.S. FIGURE SKATING
WHY MICHIGAN WATER POLO IS WORTH YOUR WHILE. CHAMPIONSHIPS. THEY CAME AWAY WITH THE TOP TWO SPOTS.


2B - January 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'M' ice dancers take
home U.S. senior title

Stu
firs

Junior Leah Robertson and the Michigan water polo squad are an exciting team with a growing fan base.
Why go to waterpolo.

Four
ed to ti
at theI
ing Ch
on Satu
Soph
Charlie
for thei
freshm
sophom
the sec
Davi
Canton
Club at
ing Cl
their v
free-da
day. TI
tion wi
"We
well-pr
were a
and no
happy."
With
pions T
to abse
due to
injury,
the pod
the pail
Davi
nal dar
1920's-i
"Happy
mandin
field. O
out and

dent pairs finish with a passion-filled interpreta-
. tion of "Samson and Delilah" that
st and second in lit up Quicken Loans Arena.
Cleveland Long-time friends off of the
ice, Davis and White have had a
strong presence in the senior ice-
By KATIE FIELD dance field ever since their debut
Daily Sports Writer three seasons ago.
In their 12th year skating
University students skat- together, Davis and White said
he top tiers of the podium their long partnership is a major
United States Figure Skat- factor in their success. A coaching
ampionships in Cleveland switch in 2005 to Igor Shpilband
irday afternoon. - who now has coached 12 of the
somores Meryl Davis and past 16 U.S. ice-dance champions
White won ice-dance gold - has fueled their progression in
ir first U.S. senior title, and the sport.
an Emily Samuelson and Although their elaborate cos-
nore Evan Bates glided into tumes don't include a block "M,"
ond-place ice dance slot. the four skaters aren't shy about
sandWhite,whorepresent the colors that they support. At
's Arctic Figure Skating the 2008 U.S. Championships,
nd the Detroit Figure Skat- where Davis and White finished
ub, respectively, secured second, White held up a Michi-
ictory with a 99.82 point gan sweatshirt in the kiss-and-
once performance Satur- cry room as the pair awaited their
hey finished the competi- marks. Davis pointed to.the yel-
th total of 201.68 points. low letters emblazoned on the
came to nationals really shirt and cheered.
epared," White said. "We "I definitely feel like wherever
ible to do well out there I go, I represent the university,"
t hold back, so we're really Bates said. "We're in Cleveland
right now, and almost every sin-
five-time defendingcham- gle day I was wearing a Michigan
'anith Belbin and Ben Agos- T-shirt or something. There are
nt from the Championships so many Ohio State fans here that
Agosto's lingering back are giving me a hard time. (Samu-
Davis and White's path to elson) and I did a promo that they
ium was a little clearer. But played on the Jumbotron that was
r still earned their title. all about how we go to Michigan.
s and White won the origi- We said, 'Go Blue,' and the fans
nce on Thursday with the started booing us."
inspired performance On campus, Davis and White
y Feet," opening up a com- live relatively normal college
ng eight-point lead on the lives. Davis is a member of Delta
n Saturday, the pair came Delta Delta sorority. White, who
I extended their advantage previously helped coach the

Michigan women's synchronized
skating team, enjoys living in an
off-campus apartment with fel-
low skaters. At Nationals, White
stood atop the podium with his
roommate and friend, Bates, next
to him on the second tier.
"It's pretty funny, honestly,"
Bates said. "We're doing press
conferences together and we're
laughing through the whole
thing. We had to be separated.
He's one of my best friends, so it's
really cool to be going through
this experience and to share it
with somebody who you're good
buddies with."
In only their second senior
ice-dance season, the Ann Arbor
Figure Skating Club's Samuel-
son and Bates are relatively new
,to the sport's highest level. But
with a solid 181.64-point finish
this weekend, the pair is another
step closer to making a name for
themselves.
."It's surreal to be here because
this is the place that they were
last year," Samuelson said of
Davis and White. "You look up
to the people who were here last
year and you think, 'Oh my gosh,
they're such good skaters.' Now
that we are the silver medalists
of the United States, we see that
we deserve to be here at this level
and that we're great skaters."
Both pairs learned that they
made the U.S. World team Sun-
day morning. Belbin and Agosto,
who received the third spot, will
join them in Los Angeles as what
is undoubtedly the strongest
U.S. World dance team in recent
memory. There they will focus
on securing the U.S. spots for the
2010 Olympics.

T here wasn't much reasono
to be outdoors yesterday,
but I left my drafty house
in search of warmer pastures inside
Canham Natatorium.
No, I didn't just go there to bask
in the radiated heat of an empty
poolhouse. The Michigan women's
water polo team was taking on four-
time defending
national cham-
pion UCLA.
I've only been
to a couple water.
polo matches in
my life, and I'm
far from being a
an expert on the NATE
sport. SANDALS
But after yes-
terday, I think I'll be watching a lot
more.
It's not an easy sport to describe.
It best resembles soccer because
there are two teams trying to get a
ball into a goal.
There's an element of basket-
ball, too. On offense, the teams
tend to cycle the ball around the
perimeter, looking for an open
shot or a lane to pass inside. Bas-
ketball would be even more like
water polo if the lane was a pool
and post players were allowed to
grab, yank, dunk and tackle each
other. You or I would drown in 100
seconds, no question.
Even with those basic compari-
sons, there was a lot about the sport
I didn't understand.
Whistles were blown seemingly
SPARTANS
From page 1B
it's Michigan State or who it is."
The Wolverines bavera heen sly
about watching the staodings. Tie
teamnoticed when two toomr oinahead
of them, Alaska and Miaomoi, both
failed to notch two points idlay.
But that didn't distract the rOl-
verInes come Saturday night. They
played with an intensity that the
Yost crowd could only yearn for last
week against the Falcons, putting
together a quick three-goal lea. It
was the second three-goal period
Michigan compiled against the
Spartans this weekend after closing

at random.
Players hopped in and out of the
water while the game seemed to be
flowing.
'The referees wore all-white uni-
forms.
Despite roy ignorance, I really
enjoyed watLching, and I think the
other students who were there felt
the same.
Water po> is primed to be a great
spectator sport at Michigan.
it's a fast-paced game with a
great mix of power and finesse.
Michigan coach Matt Anderson
wasn't pulling my leg when he told
me it owas the quickest and most
physical women's varsity sport in
Ann Arbor.
You're right on top of the action
inside Canham, which can get loud
when it's full. (Imagine'a warmer
Yost with water instead of ice and
no glass separating fans from the
bench.)
And here's the kicker: Michigan
is good.
lirehe Wolverines aren't just good
by East Coast standards, they're
good by national standards. In
a sport dominated by schools in
Southern California, Michigan is
becoming a significant contender.
Not bad for a school that has only
had a varsity team since 2001.
Last season, the Wolverines
made the NCA fTournament and
finisl-edo! sixth.
1ichiga entered this week-
end, the season-opening Michigan
Kick-Off, with a preseason No. 10
them out ith th r e lamp-lighters
in Friday's final frame at Joe Louis
Arena.
" thorsoglt we started well, really
well," 'ereoso1n said. "We knew it
was imporetant to get a good start, to
set the tone for the game."
Michigan eventually outshot
Michigan State by 30 shots Saturday,
51-21, but two Spartran goals within a
25-second span in the second period
made the game a one-score contest.
ohen, halfway through the third,
Sunroes sealed the victory with a
wrist shot from just inside the right
blue line past freshman goalie Drew
PIlirisano's glove,
The Wolverines' blistering start
meant very little, and the narrow

ranking. But that number is prob-
ably going to go up.
The Wolverines started the sea-
son Saturday with an 8-6 loss to No.
5 California. Next, they shut out
Colorado State (unlike soccer, you
don't see many shutouts in water
polo, I'm told). And yesterdaymorn-
ing, they upset No. 7 San Jose State.
Then came the matchup with
the Bruins, Michigan's fourth
game in two days. It was UCLA's
third.
I've already mentioned they're
four-time defending national
champions. I haven't told you the
last time they lost a match was
in 2007 or that they shellacked
Michigan 16-0 a year ago or that
they returned fifteen players from
last season, including three All-
Americans.
Michigan jumped out to a 2-0
lead and trailed just 3-2 at half-
time. It wasn't a surprise to see
UCLA pull away with a 10-4 win,
but it was exciting to see Michigan
hang tough with a high-caliber
team.
Michigan'sgoals are clears repeat
as Eastern Champions, return to
the NCAAfTournament and achieve
a top-five ranking.
Now the Wolverines are on the
road until early March. When they
get back, I suggest you go to Can-
ham and check out the sport and
team for yourself.
- Sandals can be reached
at nsandals oumich.edu.
lead significantly ratcheted up the
game's energy.
"The intensity, the hitting, the
hard work today from both teams -
I definitely think that the intensity
level was definitely way up there,"
sophomore forward Matt Rust said.
And anything short of that high
intensity might have allowed the
Spartans to complete their come-
back - and make Michigan's match-
up with Notre Dame next weekend
less significant.
"You've got to win these games if
we're goingto make up some ground
in the standings, so they were big
games," Berenson said. "The week-
end overall is a good weekend for
us."


ARIEL BOND/Daily
Senior Christine Nichols helped propel Michigan past Ohio State in the 200-yard medley relay Friday.
Smit and Kell spark win
over Buckeyes indualmeet


If you answered yes to both questions, you
may be eligible to participate in a TOEFL*
Validity Study - and receive a $50 gift card!
To be eligible you must:
" Be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate
student at a 4-year institution in the U.S.
u Have taken the TOEFL test in the past
4 years
Study participants will:
" Provide a copy of a college transcript from
the first year after they took the TOEFL test
(official or unofficial)
" Provide ETS with GRE, SAT ,GMAT" or
* ACT scores, if available (official or unofficial)
o Corp lete a brief online survey
To learn more, e-mail Amelia Monk at
collaborate@ets.org by Jan. 30, 2009.
Listening,,teamNingE Leading."

No. 22 Michigan
enjoys coaches'
performance
during victory
By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
The thought of standing 10
meters above ground on a flimsy
board would be horrific for most.
But for Michigan diving
coaches Chris Bergere and Dick
Campbell, it provided fuel for the
intermission entertainment.
During a break in the Wolver-
ines' dual meet against Ohio State
on Friday, the two showcased
their diving skills in a short per-
formance. Dressed in pajamas,
the duo did a variety of flips.
The most impressive was a back-
flip where Campbell leapt into
Bergere's arms and the two dove
off the five-meter board at Can-
ham Natatorium.
While the No. 22 Michigan
women's swimming and diving
team enjoyed the performance,
it was hardly laughing as it com-
peted againstconference foe Ohio
State.
The Wolverines beat the Buck-
eyes 169.5-129.5 to record their
first conference win of the season.
Michigan (1-3 Big Ten, 2-6
overall) had no trouble finding

motivation for the dual meet. The
team is still recovering from a
rigorous training camp in Puerto
Rico that left many swimmers
drained in meets and practices.
"It's like I told them before
the meet - I don't care if it is tid-
dlywinks or 47-man squamish,"
Michigan coach Jimr Richardson
said. "Whatever it is, it's Michi-
gan and Ohio State, and everyone
is going to pick it up a notch."
Michigan started the meet
strong with a victory in the 200-
yard medley relay. Seniors Han-
nah Smith and Christine Nichols,
freshmanCaitlin Dauw and junior
Margaret Kelly went stroke-for-
stroke against Ohio State before
Dauw pulled away in the butterfly
leg. The team finished three sec-
onds ahead of the Buckeyes (0-2,
4-3).
Both teams battled in the
beginning, before the Wolverines
won eight of the last nine events.
The Wolverines were led by
junior Leigh Cole, who earned
victories and swam season-best
times in both the 50- and 100-
yard freestyle. -
"We were ready to do that,"
Cole said. "We watched the other
teams this year, and we really
wanted to get out there and beat
Ohio State. It's such a rivalry,
Michigan and Ohio State, so it
was exciting."
Kelly kept up her consistent
level of success by touching the

wall first in the 500-yard free-
style and 200-yard individual
medley. She has been the work-
horse for the young Wolverines
all year, leading Michigan with
10 wins. She has even attempted
to cover the lack of depth in the
breaststroke by swimming the
100-yard breaststroke several
times this season.
Smith captured event titles
in the 100-yard backstroke
(55.28) and 200-yard backstroke
(1:58.66).
Kelly and Smith were part of
the victorious 400-yard freestyle
relay (3:26.56) that outpaced the
Buckeyes by four seconds. The
freestyle relays have been a high-
light for the Wolverines all season
and have earned NCAA consider-
ation times in all three events.
Michigan also dominated the
one-meter diving event, taking
four of the top five spots. Junior
Stephanie O'Callaghan placed
first andredshirtfreshmenRachel
Ropeik finished third in platform
diving (265.35) as Michigan's top
performer in the event.
The meet put the Wolverines in
good position with just two meets
left before the Big Ten Champion-
ships from Feb. 19-21.
"When it comes down to our
final meet, I think we will be
ready," Cole said. "We're going to
have some fast swimmers there.
We aren't rested yet, and we
haven't been all season."

(Es)TOEFL


b The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

January 26, 2009 - 3B

Comeback effort falls short for Blue

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
STATE COLLEGE - Just one
routine from the end of Saturday
night's meet, the Michigan men's
gymnastics team brimmed with
confidence. The second-ranked
Wolverines seemed on the verge
of pulling off an improbable win
against No. 3 Penn State in the
famed Rec Hall.
One set and a few calculations
later, the Wolverines' smiles van-
ished.
Despite its comeback efforts in
the final two rotations, Michigan
came up just short, losing 348.90-
348.35 to the Nittany Lions.
The Wolverines were stunned,
and they weren't alone.
"I did have several Penn State
fans tell me the wrong team won
tonight," Michigan coach Kurt
Golder said. "When you get the
home crowd coming up and telling
you that in private, that's an indica-
tionthatmaybethings weren't quite
the way they should have been."
In the final two events, Michigan
grabbed for the victory with both
hands and outscored Penn State by
nearly two points. With intense and
unfaltering energy, the Wolverines
turned in a solid showing on high

bar and then appeared to put the
meet away on parallel bars.
After a missed opening routine
on the final event, Michigan got
right back on track. Senior Ryan
McCarthy whooped with glee as he
finished his set. Sophomore Chris
Cameron, who last week was named
Big Ten and NCAA Gymnast of the
Week, reacted with confidence as
he finished Michigan's last routine,
smiling and pointing happily to his
teammates on the sideline.
Meanwhile, the pressure seemed
to get to Penn State, especially on
the high bar, where its first four
competitors fell. Each fall means a
full point deduction from the total
score. Michigan had all the momen-
tum and, after Cameron's set,
thought it had the win.
But there was one routine left:
Penn State senior Casey Sandy on
the high bar. From the running
totals on the scoreboard, everyone
in the arena knew precisely what
Sandy would need to give his team
the win.
.And the judges gave it to him.
The 15.45 score bumped Penn State
into the lead.
The Wolverines refused to lay
blame on anyone but themselves for
the loss.
"There's no way we should have

lost to them," Cameron said. "We're
good enough to beat them and we
didn't perform tonight the way we
should've. ... We put it in (the judg-
es') hands. We let them win."
Golder chose sophomore Adam
Hamers as his unofficial Newt
Loken award winner for the best
performance of the night. The
meet's second competitor on pom-
mel horse, Hamers might have got-
ten overlooked in the fight to the
wire. But after being out of compe-
tition for a year and a half, Hamers
not only hit his set in his college
debut, he won the event (14.60).
Neither pommel horse, Michi-
gan's traditional nemesis, nor low-
scoring vault was the major factor
in the loss. The real shock came in
Michigan's second event, floor.
Historically one of the team's
biggest strengths, floor was where
the Wolverines lost the meet. Only
freshman Syque Caesar and Camer-
on, who won the event with a 15.10,
managed scores above 14. Where
the Wolverines should have had a
team total around 60 points, they
scored just 57.10.
"If we had hit some solid sets on
floor, which we had been hitting
all week, it wouldn't have been an
issue," senior Jamie Thompson said.
"So it comes down to, it's our fault."

WILL MOELLER/Daily
Senior Ryan McCarthy, seen here practicing at the Coliseum last week, couldn't push Michigan to a win over Penn State.
Michigan is determined that when it hosts the Big Ten Champi- are," McCarthy said. "We'll give it
nothing similar will happen for onships in April. to them tonight, but we're not going
the rest of the year - especially not "We're a better team than they to give it to them at Big Tens."

'M' sweeps competition!TimhlvrQ Qh ikP off

No.16 Michigan
dominates Western
Michigan and Ball
State
By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's tennis team
sat down for breakfast at 7:40 a.m.
It sat down for dinner at 10:00
p.m.
And in the 14 hours between
those meals, the 16th-ranked Wol-
verines feasted on two foes.
Michigan (2-0) bested both
Western Michigan (3-1) and Ball
State (1-2) 6-1 in a strenuous and
lengthy doubleheader at the Var-
sity Tennis Center. The Wolver-
ines outworked their opponents in
both contests and played their most
inspired tennis in a sweep of the
doubles matches against Ball State.
"We saw it fit to come out
focused and take care of business
so you don't find yourself playing a
long match late into the night when
you've already been here for four
hours," senior co-captain Peter
Aarts said.
Aarts' singles match was any-
thing but long as Ball State's Kevin
Hayward never broke serve. The
Michigan captain's long arms
delivered numerous aces, and his
tall frame seemingly glided across
the court to return difficult shots.
He claimed a decisive 6-0, 6-1 vie-
tory at No. 3 singles.
Sophomores Chris Madden and
Jason Jung competed in doubles

twofalsonbeam

Senior Peter Aarts, here against Vanderbilt in 2008, swept his opponent in singie

and singles matches in both con-
tests and were victorious in all
four showings. Jung had a painful
grimace on his face for much of his
last match against Ball State as his
exhausted legs began to cramp.
Despite the discomfort, he cruised
to a 6-2, 6-4 victory at No. 1 singles.
"After the first set, it kind of
affected me a little bit because I
didn't really want to be out there,"
Jung said. "It was a long day, I
wanted to get out. My mind wasn't
quite there at times."
Michigan coach Bruce Berque
sent a trainer to stretch Jungbefore
his sixth and final set of the day.
"In football or basketball, if
someone's cramping up, you take
a timeout, you substitute, and
you bring him back out when he's

ready," Berque said. "In tennis, you
can't afford to do that. You're not
allowed to do it."
Jung was not the only Wolverine
to turn in a gutsy performance Sat-
urday. In the early contest against
Western Michigan, redshirt fresh-
man Drew Daniel appeared out-
matched after losing his first set at
No. 6 singles. But he battled back
and won the next two sets behind
an uncharacteristically vocal
crowd. Daniel took the last four
games of the final set, earning him
a 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 win.
"It's important that he gets off
to a good start because he can help
the team a lot," Aarts said of Dan-
iel. "He's been a little up and down
the past couple months, but I think
he's got his head right now."

Wolverines squeak
past Golden Gophers
despite shaky final
rotation
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Entering the last rotation of the
No. 19 Michigan women's gym-
nastics team's meet against Min-
nesota, the Wolverines' lead was
precarious at best.
But despite a nerve-racking
beam performance, the Wolver-
ines hung on to win by 0.65 points
at the Sports Pavilion in Minne-
apolis on Saturday.
"There is never security in a
gym meet when you are ending
on beam," aMichigan coach Bev
Plocki said. "Beam is really one of
those events when you can have a
great day and be consistent, but for
no apparent reason, when you're
going into balance beam, there is
never security."
Because of the way rotation
works in an all-around dual meet,
the visiting team usually faces
beam as its last rotation.
Ahead by two-tenths of a point
going into beam, Michigan (3-0
Big Ten, 7-2 overall) had no idea if
it would be able to secure the vic-
AUERBACH
From page 1B
on the ice, he's girt to deal with the
impending trial of Mike Milano,
the former Michigan football play-
er charged in the Oct. 12 assault.
The preliminary hearing begins
Thursday, and if the trial continues,
Kampfer will likely have to testify.
You can't help but feel bad for
Kampfer. Twice, he's been victim-
ized in a cheap, under-handed way.
Twice, he's lain in a hospital bed
wondering what exactly happened.
And this time feels worse, if that's
possible.
The reason this on-ice attack is
going to be in the news for awhile
isn't just because it's an example
of how violent hockey can be. It's
not iust because it exemplifies the

tory. A loss would have been its
first conference defeat in almost
two years.
With six athletes competing in
each event and five counted scores,
the gymnasts had a small margin
of error, one that Michigan was
thankful for after the weekend
dual.
"I think that there are improve-
ments being made every week,"
Plocki said. "It's just that we have
to put all the pieces together in the
same competition. This is just a
team that needs to gain experience
and perform, and that will happen
as we progress through the sea-
son."
Sophomore Kylee Botterman,
competing for the first time in all-
around competition for the Wol-
verines, helped the team to victory.
Although inexperienced, she won
both the vault and floor exercises.
In an unusual finish to the dual,
Minnesota awarded Botterman a
Most Valuable Player award.
"I was a little nervous, but not
too much," Botterman said about
competing in the all-around.
"Everyone for the most part had a
great meet, and I am just excited to
go home next weekend and com-
pete all-around in our home arena
with our own fans and the crowd
cheering us on."
But not all Michigan's gymnasts
had as much success as Botterman.
It's because it was a cowardly.
attack on a player who has already
saifferead this kindalof mrisfortun~e.
"To: he hotnest, thtat was a classless
noose on thteir part," junior captaino
Chris Summers told TheWolverine.
com. "Whether it's 'an individual
thing or a team thing, to be honest,
I think it was embarrassing.
"With the game ofhockey comes a
lot of respect for one another. These
matchups are going to get intense,
but for that team to dothat, for those
players to do that, is completely
uncalled for and unnecessary."
Even Michigan State coach Rick
Comley said the hit was cheap and
uncalled for. He said he would deal
with thesituation.
A season-ending suspension for

Two athletes fell on the beam,
meaning one of those scores was
counted.
It's rare that a team can win a
meet when it must count a fallen
score, and in the last rotation of
the meet, the Wolverines had no
chance to make up for their mis-
takes.
"It was totally ap in the air when
we had to count the fall on beam,"
Plocki said. "When the second per-
son fell, we thought we had prob-
ably lost the meet, but (Minnesota)
had their second person fall."
All the Golden Gophers had to
do to secure the win was to earn a
9.4 or better in their last floor rou-
tine, an easy feat for a collegiate
gymnast.
But Saturday, it was not so easy.
After her first tumbling pass,
Minnesota senior Jade Beattie
landed awkwardly and injured
herself. Unable to finish, she was
forced to quit and receive a score
of 2.0, giving the Wolverines their
third Big Ten victory of the sea-
son.
"That's the kind of experience
we need, being in close competi-
tion like this where there is only a'
tenth or so separating the teams,"
Plocki said. "We have to thrive
under that pressure and I think
we did. We gained a lot of valu-
able experience today in this situ-
ation."
the stick-wielding Tropp is the least
Comley - or the CCHA - could
adt. Nort ornly is thoe hit ptathoetic and
enoharrassing for the Spartans, it's a
iharmfnul, personal attack on some-
one who has already had a rough
couple of months. Suspending play-
ers might not even do the situation
justice. Michigan State is already
guaranteed a losing season, so pun-
ishing an already-defeated team isn't
more than just a slap on the wrist.
After the hit, the Michigan stu-
dent section went berserk, chanting
obscenities at the Spartans bench.
Those playersdeserve worse.And
Kampfer deserved better.
- Auerbach can be reached
at naauer anich.edu.

Gamecocks no match for
Sulahian s clutch victory

Freshman breaks
tie with win in No.6
singles, 'M' slips past
South Carolina
By GILAD BERKOWITZ
Daily Sports Writer
Leave it to a newcomer to pull
through.
In the No. 19 Michigan women's
tennis team's match against South
Carolina yesterday, freshman
Michelle Sulahian had the game
on the line - and she stepped up.
With the match tied 3-3 at the
Varsity Tennis Center, Sulahian
won the No.6 singles match to give
Michigan the win over the Game-
cocks.
"My hold at five-all was pretty
clutch because I definitely did not
want to play a tiebreaker," Sula-
hian said. "I am definitely glad I
got the set over with."
Following the back-and-forth
nature of the previous matches,
South Carolina forced a tiebreaker
in the second set.
At five-all in the tiebreaker, the
Gamecocks made a questionable
call but Sulahian refused to be
flustered.
"I thought the ball caught the
line, but I definitely was not going
to dwell on it," Sulahian said.

"Normally, I would blow up, but
with everyone watching, I stayed
calm."
Sulahian's victory came after
the Wolverines opened up dual-
match play this weekend with a
dominating performance over
Marquette.
Michigan overpowered the
Golden Eagles on Friday after-
noon. The Wolverines didn't drop
a set in singles play and secured
the doubles point with a decisive
8-3 victory led by the No. 3 doubles
team of senior Lindsey Howard
and Sulahian.
In less than 48 hours, the Wol-
verines were back on the court.
Ultimately, the Wolverines pulled
out the victory against the talent-
ed and underrated Gamecocks.
"I'm glad Friday's match wasn't
very competitive, because we had
more time to recover," Sulahian
said.
Sunday's three doubles matches
went down to the wire, but the
Wolverines squeezed out the point
behind a clutch performance by
the No. 1 doubles team of senior
Chisako Sugiyama and junior
Tania Mahtani. Both exploited
South Carolina's weak second
serves.
After a Gamecocks' shot was
called wide, the match was thought
to be over and the Wolverines team
ran to the net to shake hands with
their opponents. But the Game-

cocks refused to budge, claiming
the ball had clipped the back part
of the line. After the umpire reaf-
firmed that the ball was indeed
wide, South Carolina hesitantly
approached the net and the 8-6
victory was confirmed.
The No. 2 doubles team of soph-
omores Whitney Taney and Rika
Tatsuano also helped the cause by
winning their match 8-5.
Playing at No. 1 singles, Sugi-
yama was upset in straight sets
and appeared both tired and frus-
trated.
At No. 2 singles, Tatsuano
struggled to get her first serve m
with regularity and lost in straight
sets to Ana Marija Zubori. Zubori,
whoultimately won the match in
straight sets (6-3, 6-4), attacked
Tatsuano's second serve and threw
in a bevy of trick shots that frus-
trated Tatsuano and forced her to
change her gameplan.
But it was Sulahian's perfor-
mance that clinched the win event
after her disappointing doubles
outing.
Sulahian, who had lost for the
second time that weekend in her
No. 3 doubles match with How-
ard, appeared to relish all of the
pressure and the emotions of the
crowd.
"After the doubles, me and Lind-
say just wanted to get the perfor-
mance out of our head." Sulahian
said.

.................................................


hatred and passion of the Michigan
State-Michigan rivalry. Or because
of its hits on YouTube.UPs
0AS FNESTI& FASTEST SINCE 19973
t ,.} k1 T - S H IRT P R IN TE RY "
* -Expert Screenprinting 3F,
: MEmbroidery=::
TEES, SWEATS, SHORTS I
CAPS, TOTES, APRONS U
Muti-Clor j We Turna
* Printing Your Sketch
OurxSpeciarity Into -shirt Art 8
SEMAIL DESIGN FOR PROMPT QUOTEsF;
CATALOGUE, &EMAIL LINKAT
* M 12 PONTIAC TR. 994-1 : Visit www.bluestarcamps.com
or contact uS at (828) 692-359

.4f


4B - January 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com 4

Blue needs more
from its best

John Beilein says he's not
bothered by it. Manny Har-
ris says he's not getting frus-
trated. In fact, the whole Michigan
men's basketball team doesn't seem
to be paying it any attention.
But "Manny Fresh," the Wolver-
ines' sure-thing scorer, has gone
stale recently. Harris has just 12
points in the last two games on
3-of-19 shooting. He hasn't made a
3-pointer in more than 80 minutes.
Harris is a
great player -
he scored in
double figures in
every game this
season before
last week's Penn.
State debacle,
but he needs ANDY
to shake this REID
slump immedi-
ately if the Wol-
verines are going to make a push for
an NCAA Tournament bid.
In the locker room after Michi-
gan's 68-59 win against North-
western, Harris wasn't upset about
his eight points, saying that if his
shots aren't falling, he can contrib-
ute in other ways. And he did, dish-
ing out four assists and grabbing 12
rebounds.
Sure, Harris's newfound versa-
tility is a major reason for the Wol-
verines' drastic turnaround this
year. Sure, he was getting double-
teamed most of the night. Sure,
open shot opportunities are few and
far between for the Big Ten's No. 2
scorer.
But Harris didn't take advantage
of the chances he got, rimming out

shots and not finishing on lay-ups.
Even though he is on track to dou-
ble his assists total from last year,
Michigan is notgoing to thrive until
he finds his shot again.
"I'm not worried about mine,"
Harris said. " I'll get mine eventu-
ally. Just doing other things, get a
couple assists, rebounding. The key
is that we won."
But how long can the Wolverines
keep winningif Harris doesn't come
out of this scoring slump?
Before Saturday, no Michigan
fan could have possibly imagined a
scenario in which Harris notched
10-plus boards and didn't register
a double-double. Even if Harris is
gutting out the tough plays, hus-
tling on the court and helping his
teammates, there's been a giant hole
in Michigan's offense when he's not
scoring. His 351 points on the year
make up a quarter of the Wolver-
ines' total offensive output.
It doesn't stop with Harris, either.
Junior DeShawn Sims, who needs to
shore up the paint if the Wolverines
are to find success, has struggled to
uphold that responsibility lately.
When he scored the Wolver-
ines' first nine points on Saturday,
I thought Sims was finally adapting
to the role of Michigan's post pres-
ence. He tallied just one more field
goal in the game's final 37 minutes.
It's no secret that Beilein's squad
is in desperate need of a post game.
Sims can't be held quiet for so long
against one of the smallest teams in
the Big Ten. If lowly Northwestern
can keep Sims's post-play in check,
what will seven-footer B.J. Mullens
and Dallas Lauderdale of Ohio State

WILDCATS
From page 1B
Lucas-Perry, who made his first
3-pointer in three games. "We
played aggressive. We played
with poise."
With the win, Beilein earned
his 500th-career victory as a
head coach at a four-year school.
And .it took a complete effort
from his team to do it.
Nine players scored for the
Wolverines and six finished with
eight or more points.
Junior forward DeShawn
Sims scored Michigan's first nine
points in the game's first three
minutes.
But Sims cooled off and relied
on his teammates to lead Michi-
gan (4-4 Big Ten, 14-6 overall) to
its first win in four games. He fin-
ished with a team-high 15 points
and seven rebounds.
"He played like a beast," Lucas-
Perry said of Sims. "He played
with that tenacity that we need
out of him every game."
The Wildcats (2-5, 10-7)
entered Crisler Arena fresh off
their stunning 70-63 upset of No.
7 Michigan State last Wednesday
in East Lansing.
But Northwestern couldn't
muster the same lights-out
shooting and had just three play-
ers account for 83 percent of its
offense.
But while the Wildcats relied
on their top three scorers, Michi-
gan's leading offensive presence,
sophomore forward Manny Har-
ris, remained on a skid.
With just eight points on Sat-
urday, Harris has scored a com-
bined 12 points inthe Wolverines'
last two games.
But even when the Big Ten's
second-leading scorer (17.6
points per game) was double-
teamed, Harris was a major con-

tributor in Michigan's win with
a game-high 12 rebounds and
four assists.
"The key thing is winning,"
Harris said. "I've had 20-some
and we lost. It will come ... I'll get
mine back."
The Wolverines have played
well at home this year, and from
tipoff, the players' intensity was
palpable.
Whether it was Sims, Harris or
fifth-year senior guard C.J. Lee
diving for a rebound, Michigan
played with a poised urgency that
had been absent in recent games.
The Wolverines outrebound-
ed Northwestern 41-22 and had
an impressive 18-to-9 assist-to-
turnover ratio.
Freshman guard Zack Novak
was crucial to Michigan's attack
on the glass, grabbingthree offen-
sive and seven total rebounds.
At just 6-foot-5, Novak is often
outsized in the post, but his inten-
sity gives him an advantage.
"That was big -he's just exact-
ly what the doctor ordered, as far
as just a guy that is a nuts-and-
bolts, blue-collar, lunch-bucket,
whatever you guys want to call
him," Beilein said. "He does a lot
of the garbage stuff we need to
get done."
The patience the Wolverines
exhibited Saturday was a stark
contrast to last Tuesday's loss at
Penn State when Michigan shot
under 17 percent from 3-point
range.
- It was a big move for Michi-
gan to regain its confidence when
Northwestern was brimming
with it.
"That was probably the most
disappointing thing about the
three losses - we thought we
left something on the court," Lee
said.
"Tonight, we wanted to empty
out everyone's tank and go hard
the entire time."

4

4

4

Sophomore Manny Harris scores a layup in Michigan's 68-59 win over Northwestern.
do this Wednesday when Michigan the load. No one but the opposi-
travels to Columbus? tion wants the ball in Zack Gibson's
Twenty-three combined points hands in the waning seconds of a
from your two stars is not enough. tight game.
Even with other players like It's simple - the Wolverines
freshmen Stu Douglass, Laval can't afford to rely on the players
Lucas-Perry and Zack Novak step- they don't normally rely on to score
ping up, how long can Michigan for too much longer. If Harris and
hold on when nearly 50 percent of Sims continue to struggle down the
its expected point total, contributed stretch, so will Michigan.
by Harris and Sims, is curbed? It's great that Novak, Douglass
Douglass, astreaky3-pointshoot- and Co. are stepping tsp, but Harris
er, and Novak can't be expected to and Sims need to start leading the
carry the team. Sophomore point way.
guard Kelvin Grady - even though
he drained two from downtownn - Reid can be reached at
Saturday - isn't going to shoulder andyreidaumichedu.

4

Ofili and Co. oust competition Harris excels against
Wolverines earn fast e
Harvey Invitaional ifamiliar foes at home

4

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
One lane. Sixty-meters. Five
hurdles.
Seven and one half seconds later,
Senior Tiffany Ofili took a first-
place finish in the 60-meter hurdles
and an NCAA automatic-qualifying
mark for the second week in a row.
"I try to just drown everything
out," Ofili said. "Nothing else mat-
ters besides the five hurtles and the
finish line in front of me."
The co-captain also won the
60-meter dash and came in second
behind teammate Bettie Wade in
the long jump, leaping 20 feet and
7 inches at the non-scoring Sim-
mons/Harvey Invitational at the
Indoor Track Building Saturday.
Ofili took a noticeable lead right
out of the startingblocks in both the
60-meter hurdles and the 60-meter
dash. By the time her opponents
prepared to clear their first hurdle,
Ofiliwas a step ahead of the next.
Co-captains Casey Taylor and
Wade joined in Ofili's success. The
Wolverines earned seven first-place
finishes, five earned by the three
captains Taylor, Wade and Ofili.
Saturday's meet was one of the
few opportunities for the Wolver-
ines to get fast times before the Big

Senior Tiffany Ofili had two first-place fini
Ten Championships at the end of
February.
Taylor set a school record and
new personal best in the triple
jump (13.09 meters) Saturday, beat-
ing the personal best she set last
week in Akron.
"I was happy, but I had other
goals in mind," Taylor said. "I
stayed calm and collected just so
I could get myself together for the
rest of the jumps."
Wade followed with an equally
impressive performance when she
met the NCAA automatic-qualify-
ing mark with her 20-feet-and-10-
inch long jump, a personal best and
a jump good enough for first place.
"I get really hyped when things

shes at the Simmons/Harvey Invitational
go well," Wade said. "So I was just
really excited. And thes nay other
teammates, we all get really com-
petitive and talk smack to each
other so I was like 'lets go!"'
The Wolverines have just five
meets to earn qualifying times for
the NCAA Championships prior
to the indoor Big Tens. Michigan
coach James Henry said he was
impressed with his athletes perfor-
mance in only the third meet of the
season.
"I was really excited, reallyhappy
with the results," Michigan coach
James Henry said. "They looked
like if they continue to improve that
we are going to have a very special
team and a very special year."

Michigan notches
four first-place
finishes in
non-scoring meet
By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
A quick stumble as he left the
blocks wasn't enough to keep
senior All-America sprinter Alam
Harris from finishing first.
Harris took the 60-meter dash
in just 6.71 seconds and picked
sip an NCAA provisional mark,
leading from start to finish in Sat-
urday's non-scoring Simmons/
Harvey Invitational at the 'ndoor
Track Building.
"What I was really happy about
was even stunibling out of the
blocks, he beat two national-cali-
her guys and was ahead the whole
race," LaPlante said. "I think he's
got a loti more in him, so that's
ROBINSON
From page 1B
(with Rodriguez) my first year at
Syracuse, when we went to the Big
East meetings," Robinson said. "I
found myself kind of gravitating to
him. I noticed our wives got along
together. That went on each sum-
mer.
"I like him. I think he's straight
up. What you see is what you get.
I know he's a heck of a football
coach. I've competed against him.
You get to know people like that.
That's why I contacted him."
Robinson first contacted Rodri-

exciting."
The two national-caliber run-
ners that LaPlante referred to
were Eastern Michigan's Clint
Allen and Johnny Drake, who ran
unattached. Allen is the defending
Mid-American Conference cham-
pion, and LaIlante says Drake once
held the world's top time when he
attended Central Michigan.
Harris said this wasn't the first
time they'd all faced off.
"They're pretty good friends
of mine, so we all have our little
camaraderie thing going," Harris
said. "I'm used to racing them. I
knew it was going to be good com-
petition - Coach was talking about
it all week."
The rest of the team-field fea-
tured teams including Valparaiso,
Central Michigan and South Flori-
da among others.
Harris' performance was partof
four first-place finishes on the day
for the 17th-ranked Wolverines.
Junior Matt Wheeler won
the 400-meter dash, sophomore

Carl Buchanon placed first in the
60-meter hurdles and redshirt
junior thrower Sean Pruitt won
the shot put.
Buchanon, who finished sec-
ond in hurdles at "The Dual" last
week, said he attributed his suc-
cess to three factors: composure,
maintaining speed between the
hurdles and keeping the correct
technique.
"When I was practicing before,
it all kind of came together," Buch-
anon said. "I was like, 'I hope I can
get this through the finals,' and
everything just clicked."
Though the meet doesn't count
in the standings, LaPlante said the
team's performance in the non-
scoringmeet reflected the Wolver-
ines' good preparation.
"This is the kind of meet, non-
scoring, after a disappointment,
guys did a nice job of competing,"
LaPlante said. "I was really happy
with the guys that ran the 400, the
way they ran the race ... For this
type of meet, it was perfect for us."

4

guez about the position several lize your strengths and hide your
weeks ago, but the Michigan coach weaknesses. Right now, for me,
wanted to wait for the bowl games the most important thing is get-
to end before hiring someone. The ting with these coaches, and really
two mnet up at the American Foot- studying and analyzing what we
ball Coach's Association confer- have and how to utilize it."
ence in Nashville, Tenn. from Jan. And although Rodriguez is
11.14 to talk about the job. On Jan. known to be heavily involved on
20, Robinson was announced as the offensive side of the ball, Rob-
the new coordinator. inson knows that the defensive
He will immediately begin scheme won't be a one-man show.
recruiting and working with the "The word is coordinate," Rob-
coaches to develop a defensive sys- inson said. "I never think to myself
tem. it's just going to be one guy. When
"I'm a believer that you fit your it gets like that, it gets lonely. You
system to the talents that you always want people to bounce
have," Robinson said. "Philosophi- things off of, contribute a thought
cally, I'm a believer that you uti- or two."

4

1 .,

Marian Wright Edelman
founder and president. of the Children's Defense Fund
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 4:00-5:30 pm
Michigan Union Ballroom, University of Michigan,
530 5. State Street, Ann Arbor
Attendees will receive a free copy of Edelman's book,
The Sea is So Wide and My Boat is So Small: Charting a
Course for the Next Generation.
Free and open to the public. Reception to follow.
www.fordschool.umich.edu
For more information, call Jill at 734-615-3893.
Gerald R. Ford !7 Students of Color
School of Public Policy .--- in Public Policy
Y NAI TUNA:. 1OVERTY
UNiVERSYTY OF MICHIGAN CENTER

4


