WHO NEEDS RED MORE INSIDE
B CARPETS, HUGH
*OPINION
"3:ST F JACKMAN AND
STATUES OF NAKED Why nationazing
GOLDEN MEN WHEN Bolivia's industry would
DAILY A RTS CAN PICK set back the country's
THE BEST BET TER? economic progress.
4THE B-SIDE, INSIDE

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, February 5,2009

michigandaily com

CHANGES AT RACKHAM
Enrollment
policy for
grads to get
overhaul

Ph.D. candidates to
stay enrolled from
matriculation to
graduation
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
While many undergraduate
students worry about whether
tuition will be raised next year,
Ph.D. candidates at the Univer-
sity may not have to worry about
anything.
A current proposal advocat-
ing continuous enrollment for
Ph.D. candidates would require
a student to register every
semester, from matriculation to
degree completion. It is expect-
ed to benefit students through
increased student flexibility,
lower tuition rates and uninter-
rupted access to University ser-
vices and resources.
In a presentation to the
Senate Advisory Committee
on University Affairs earlier
this week, Rackham Graduate
School Dean Janet Weiss out-
lined the proposal and defended
it against criticism from several
members of SACUA.
Weiss said a continuous
enrollment policy is standard at
most research universities, and
that switching to such a policy
could lead to higher graduation
rates.
"Our real goal is to make it
more likely that students will be
able to complete their degrees

and go on to successful careers
beyond graduate school," she
said. "The money is really only
the means to the end."
In her presentation, Weiss
called the proposal revenue
neutral, saying the current
enrollment system generates
$26 million in tuition, which
she expects will be unchanged
- despite lower tuition rates.
"The answer to the question
'Can we afford to do this?' is
yes, we think we can afford to
do it," she said. "We obviously
can afford that because we're
doing it."
The proposal would lowerthe
average Ph.D. candidate tuition
rate from $5,800 per semester
to $4,750 per semester. At the
same time, the proposal would
increase student enrollment
by 600 students, from approxi-
mately 2,200 students to 2,800
students. The increase in stu-
dents is expected to recover the
loss of revenue from a decreased
tuition rate.
Despite the lower tuition
rate, most Ph.D. students would
not notice the difference, since
many candidates have their
tuition paid for by a third party.
"Many of our Ph.D. students,
in fact almost all of our Ph.D.
students, are paid for from a
University source," Weiss said.
"That is, they don't pay their
own tuition."
Weiss said most schools at
the University would not notice
financial changes as a result
of the proposal but said a few
See PROPOSAL, Page 7A

CHANEL VON HABSBURG-LOTHRINGEN/Daily
Former University athlete Mike Milano (right) and his attorney John Shea listen to District Judge Elizabeth Pollard Hines at his preliminary hearing yesterday.
Miano to stand trial for assaut

Judge ruled that
prosecutor provided
enough evidence to
warrant trial
By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor
In a preliminary hearing yester-
day, District Judge Elizabeth Pollard
Hines ordered Mike Milano - the
former Michigan athlete accused of
assaulting a hockey player last fall -
to stand trial for the incident.
After hearing testimonies from
Milano's former wrestling coach
and an additional eyewitness, Hines
ruled that the prosecutor provided
enough evidence to warrant a trial.
Steve Kampfer, a junior defense-
man on the hockey team, sustained

head and neck injuries after an
alleged altercation with Milano on
a Church Street sidewalk near East
Quad Residence Hall on the morn-
ing of Oct. 12.
Milano, a former wrestler and
walk-on running back for the foot-
ball team, will stand trial for the
charge of assault with intent to
commit great bodily harm less than
murder. If a jury finds him guilty,
Milano could face up to 10 years in
prison and a $5,000 fine.
At yesterday's hearing, LSA senior
Nicholas Nedic, who was coming
home from a club on the night of
the incident, testified that he heard
"loud, aggressive talking" as he was
walking down Church Street.
After hearing the commotion,
Nedic said he looked to his right and
saw "one man pick up another man
... and drive him into the ground."
He saidhe then heard "a loud crack,"

like the sound of a "skull hitting
pavement."
Milano's attorney John Shea
said in an interview after the hear-
ing that he was heartened to hear
Nedic's testimony, which he said
confirmed that the confrontation
was face-to-face, and not a "sneak
attack from behind."
Shea said this is an important
distinction because it corroborates
with the testimony of Mike Ander-
son, Kampfer's friend who was with
him the night of the incident.
The fact that Milano picked
Kampfer up from the front, Shea
said, proves he was performing a
basic wrestling move to subdue him.
Wrestling Coach Joe McFarland,
who recruited and coached Milano
for two years before Milano quit to
join the football team, talked at the
hearing about the sport of wrestling
and his relationship with the defen-

dant.
After being told of the incident
as witnesses described it, McFar-
land confirmed that it sounded like
a common move - a double-leg
takedown - that wrestlers are usu-
ally taught early in their wrestling
careers.
"It's important to have it
ingrained so it becomes instinctive,"
McFarland testified. "(The move) is
not designed to cause injury."
Shea said after the hearing that
he was glad to hear McFarland con-
firm that the physical maneuver
appeared to be a wrestling move.
"I think that it is significant that
Mike didn't punch (Kampfer) or
kick him, or knee him or elbow
him," Shea said. "He employed a
wrestling move that he has been
taught and drilled until it's second
nature to him."
See MILANO, Page 7A


Michigan lands top-ten class on Signing Day

With 22 recruits,
class ranks No. 7 in
nation, according to
Rivals.com
By ANDY REID
Managing Sports Editor
It's been awhile since a Michi-
gan football press conference was
a high-spirited occasion. During
the Wolverines' program-record
nine loss season last year, Michi-
gan assistant coaches and players
found it harder and harder to field
the media's questions as the sea-
son dragged on.
But inside the Junge Fam-
ily Champions Center yesterday
afternoon, the atmosphere was
decidedly different.
With a relaxed and energetic
tone, Michigan football coach
Rich Rodriguez announced the
members of his second recruit-
ing class since taking the reins in
Ann Arbor. The Wolverines signed
22 incoming freshman - seven of
whom are already enrolled at the
University and currently working
out with strength and condition-
ing coach Mike Barwis - in a class
that currently rates No. 7 in the
nation on recruiting site Rivals.

NATIONAL SERVICE
Service programs
report increase in
student volunteers
Obama's call for economy and provide wages for
low-income families.
service, economic Fueled by this "call to service"
and the country's ever-careening
hardships drive economic plummet, service orga-
nizations around the country have
application numbers reported increased participation
from college students.
By EMILY ORLEY Barry Checkoway, a professor in
Daily StaffReporter the School of Social Work, said in
an e-mail interview that when the
On Oct. 14, 1960, in a late night country faces tough times, people
address on the- steps of the Michi- often step up and participate in ser-
gan Union, then-Sen. John F. Ken- vice opportunities.
nedy proposed the creation of an "During troubling times, Ameri-
organization for national service. cans often strengthen their service
Nearly 50 years later, service at all levels," he said. "During peri-
organizations have reported that ods of war and economic turmoil
students are once again responding - which is today - they look for
to a call to serve. leadership, build mutual support
During his presidential cam- and volunteer to serve others."
paign, Barack Obama proposed Teach For America, at its half-
a plan to increase the size of way point of accepting applica-
the AmeriCorps from 75,000 to tionsfor the 2009-2010 school year,
250,000. He said that this push reported a 48 percent increase in
would supply more jobs for col- applicants from this point last year.
lege graduates entering a tough See SERVICE, Page 7A

CHANEL VON HABSBURG-LOTH RING E/Daly
Newly signed quarterback Tate Forcier talks with members of the media at the lunge Family Champions Center yesterday.

com, three spots below rival Ohio
State.
"We needed to get some qual-
ity competition, particularly at the
offensive skill spots, and we think
we were able to do that," Rodri-
guez said. "We signed a lot of guys
from the state of Florida, which
is a primary recruiting area for

us now, in addition to our typical tion, and dual-threat quarterback
areas in the Midwest and some out Denard Robinson, who reportedly
West." runs a sub-4.4 second 40-yard
of the 22 freshmen signed yes- dash and was a welcomed Signing
terday, eight are from the Sunshine Day surprise for Wolverine fans.
State. Some of the notable Florida "(Robinson is) one of the fastest
names are speedy receiver Jeremy guys we signed," Rodriguez said.
Gallon, who Rodriguez said would "He's a guy like (early-enrolled
primarily be used in the slot posi- See SIGNING DAY, Page 7A


WEATHER HI:33
TOMORROW Lo 29

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459or e-mail
newsyvmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHiGANDAILY.COM
The Daily's Big Ten Hoops Power Rankings.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS................ 2A SPORTS...............A.............. 5A
Vol.CXIX,No.88 SUD0KU., ...... ..............3A CLASSIFIEDS........ ...........6A
N N. ..9 The Michigan Daily O.O... ....4A TH EB-SIDE......... .........lB
michigondoily.com O I I N..........

I


2A - Thursday, February 5, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

FREE BREAKFAST

Peace rally at the Big House

It was no ordinary half-
timeshowattheP1971home-
coming football game.
That Saturday afternoon,
the announcer asked the
crowd of 75,000 fans for a
moment of silence to honor
those who died in the Viet-
nam War, asuwell as the lives
that would stillibe lost.
Fifty war veterans, who
had lined the east sideline,
then released 100 black
balloons to symbolize the
1.5 million victims lost
in the war,: as the march-
ing band played "Taps,"
according to "War as
They Knew It," a book by
Michael Rosenberg.
University officials
agreed to allow the anti-
war observance during
halftime after they were
presented with a petition

signed by 1,500 people. But
they stipulated that band
members and the local
chapter of Vietnam Veter-
ans Against the War could
be the only people allowed
on the field.
Signatures supporting
the petitionfromtwo-thirds
of the football team, howev-
er, presented some conflicts
in the locker room.
Bo Schembechler, the
University's head foot-
ball coach at the time, was
concerned that the dem-
onstration would be too
distracting. In his eyes,
there was no place for it at
a Michigan football game.
Many viewed the 1971
homecoming theme,"Bring
all the troops home now.
Let's have a real homecom-
ing this year," as a success.

Spectators at the game
commented that the
unusual halftime show was
"an emotional experience
in good taste."
Marvin Epstein, an alum
who watched the show, told
the Daily at the time that
the "fantastic" halftime
festivities allowed the Uni-
versity to distinguish itself
from other colleges.
Though University Sec-
retary Richard Kennedy
and Schembechler were
concerned that mixing
football and politics could
be a distraction, the peace-
ful halftime show went off
without a hitch.
In the end, the football
team was unfazed by the
interruption, winning 61-7
over Indiana.
- HAVEN BASSETT

ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
LSA Freshman Emily Grubman enjoys a free bagel and cof fee at "Welcome Wednes-
days" at the Alumni Center. The Alumni Association hosts the event every Wednesday.

(The Ifidhipan DAMl
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom ofcehours:Sun.-Thurs.1oa.m.-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
Neat Tipsnesee@michigandaily.con
torrections correctionsmichigandaity.con
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
-734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigan daily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-05s4
ClassifiedSales classiied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales ontineads@michigandaiy.com
734-61s-013s
Finance finance@michigandaiy.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
lacob SmiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaity.com
SENIORNESEDTOR an BermanTevornCaeraJlieRoe, LinySeens
ASSnISTusT sumS EDnOnS: aAroeu nsn,Benamin 0. Chase,CtinoScnee,,,
JennaSkoller,KyleSwanson
RobertSoave EditorialPagetEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: EmilyBarton, Brian Flaherty,Rachel VanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach,Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman,Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Prosperi,Colt Rosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaiiycom
SENORnAnnS EOR:amnie ok,sBranononais,Winyennw
ASIT ARTSEIETORSJseuaBayerndrewLapinaveep,BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaiy.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,RobMigrin,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mitchetl@michigandaiy.com
ASSOCIATE COPYCHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Disptay Advertisingsales Manager
DISLY ADETISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newmn, Chr6isine Pillips
Ryan Businski ClassifiedtSales Manager
ClassifiedSales Assistant Manager:Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber online Sales Manager
Ben English Production DesignManager-
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan DailyisN0745-967ispublshedMonday throughFridayduringthefallandwiter
termsby students attheuniversityof Michigan.one opy isavailable freeotchargetoallreacers.
Additionaicopiesmay be pickedupattheDalysofficefor$2.subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
September viaU.s.malare$110.Wintertermanuarythrough ApriisT15s,yearong(September
thrug Apriluttis$.Uiesit filiatesare subjecto ardcsbscriiona -apus
sbapionsforfalterm re$35uscritonsmuseprepaid h ihgnDiyi ebro
TheAssociatedPressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

CRIME NOTES
ER wanderer Expensive
booted from jacket jacked
Hospital from dorm

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Wednesday around
4:30 a.m.
WHAT: Hospital staff
encountered a 45-50 year old
man wandering through the
Emergency Room, University
Police reported. He was given
a trespassing warning and
escorted out of the Hospital.
Deliveryman
slips on ice
WHERE: Michigan League
WHEN: Tuesday around 9 a.m.
WHAT: A deliveryman slipped
on ice and fell on the sidewalk,
University Police reported. He
complained of hip and back
pain, but refused transport
by ambulance to University
Hospital. '

WHERE: Mosher-Jordan
Residence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday around 4:30
p.m.
WHAT: A student's jacket,
worth $400, was stolen from
a locker on Jan. 17, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.
Driver hits
pedestrian
WHERE: Parking lot NW-1,
North Campus ,
WHEN: Tuesday around 9 p.m.
WHAT: A driver hit a pedes-
trian causing serious injuries,
University Police reported.
The victim was taken to Uni-
versity Hospital. The driver
was arrested and will be kept
at the county jail until his
arraignment.

Engineering
Career Fair
WHAT: A career fair for engi-
neering students, featuring 811
to 90 organizations.
WHO: The Career Center
and the Engineering Career
Resource Center
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Commons
Talk on Business
Management
WHAT: A talk on agent-based
modeling simulation (ABMS).
WHO: The Center for the
Study of Complex Systems
Career Center
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.. -
WHERE: West Hall, room 335
CORRECTIONS
* A news article in yester-
day's edition of the Daily
('U' profs turn to blogging)
misidentified the title of
Mark Perry, a professor of

economics and finance at
the School of Management
at the University's Flint
campus. A quote was also
incorrectly written, and
should have read "Now here
I am just as a professor with-
out any staff, without any
research assistants, writing
a blog that's gotten pretty
popular."
An article in last Fri-
day's edition of the Daily
(Prospective Greeks head
to winter rush) incorrectly
reported Alpha Epsilon Phi's
reason for leaving campus in
2005, which was not due to a
hazing incident.
. An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Finding
a signal in the dorms) incor-
rectly reported the cost to
install wireless access points
in a residence hall, which
costs several hundred thou-
sands of dollars.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

22-year-old Richard E.
Gavin Jr. of Canton, Ohio
was arrested for marijuana
possession while at the Stark
County Sheriff's Department.
CantonRep.com reported.
Gavin was at the county jail to
register his address as a con-
victed sex offender.
Submissions for the
Graduate and Under-
graduate Hopwood Con-
test are due Tuesday, Feb. 10.
Winners could win anywhere
from $2,000 to $9,000.
>FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE, PAGE 38
President Barack Obama
told CNN that he has not
smoked a cigarette on the
White House grounds, 3news.
co.nz reported. But he did not
say whether he has smoked
off the White House grounds
since being sworn in as presi-
dent on Jan. 20.


Bloomberg
MOVE THE MARKETS.
Build the best.
Join the company at the forefront of finance and technology.
Bloomberg provides information to business leaders around the world. Our employees have a passion
for excellence, no matter what their experience is. We foster that passion and encourage growth and
development in every way possible.
At Bloomberg our developers make an immediate impact on our product every day. The time-to-market is
short; you will work on the full development life cycle of a portion of our product, and the results will be used
by hundreds of top-level financial professionals around the globe. Learn from talented people and be part of
a team that is at the front of the financial services industry. Join Bloomberg R&D.
We are hiring intelligent, enthusiastic individuals with technical backgrounds (computer science, math,
physics, engineering), basic programming experience and an interest in developing financial applications.
To learn more about careers with Bloomberg R&D, come to our info session
on February 4th in 1200 EECS from 5-6pm, or visit us at the Winter Engineering
Career Fair at North Campus February 5th from 10am-3pm.

I

I

I

I

:areers.bloomberg.com


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 5, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Obama signs bill
extending SCHIP
President Barack Obama has
signed a bill extending health
coverage to 4 million uninsured
children.
The East Room signing cer-
emony yesterday represented
a much-needed win for Obama
on health care a day after his
administration suffered a major
setback with the loss of his nom-
inee to lead his drive for sweep-
ing reform, Tom Daschle.
The bill went to the White
House fresh from passage in the
Democratic-controlled House,
on a vote of 290-135.
The bill calls for spending an
additional $32.8 billion on the
State Children's Health Insur-
ance Program. Lawmakers gen-
erated that revenue by raising
the federal tobacco tax. Obama
said it is a key step toward his
promise of universal health care
coverage for all.
ANNAPOLIS, Md.
Lawmakers push
for voters to fill
Senate vacancies
Amid allegations that former
Illinois Coy. Rod Blagojevich
tried to sell President Barack
Obama's U.S. Senate seat, state
lawmakers across the country
are pushing to give voters - not
governors - the power to fill
similar vacancies.
Lawmakers in Illinois, Mary-
land, Rhode Island, Minnesota,
Connecticut, Colorado and New
York have introduced bills to
require special elections for open
Senate seats.
Though such elections could
be time-consuming and costly
- Minnesota officials estimate a
statewide special election there
would cost $3.5 million and
Maryland officials say they'd
need about four months for one
- supporters argue the choice
should be left to voters.
"An appointment by a gover-
nor warps the normal democrat-
ic process in that one voter - the
governor - gets to choose who
gets to be a senator," sa51 rf ~
land Delegate Saqib Ali, who
was inspired by what he calls the
"Blagojevich imbroglio" to intro-
duce a bill in his state.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
FBI searches home
of man linked to
tTylenol deaths
Federal agents yesterday
searched the home of a man
linked to the fatal 1982 Tylenol
poisonings in the Chicago area
thattriggered anationwide scare
and prompted dramatic changes
in the way food and medical
products are packaged.
No one was ever charged with
the deaths of seven people who
took the cyanide-laced drugs.
The FBI would not immediately

confirm that the search at the
home of James. W. Lewis was
related to the Tylenol case, only
that it was part of an ongoing
investigation.
Lewis served more than 12
years in prison for sending an
extortion note to Johnson &
Johnson demanding $1 million
to "stop the killing."
TAYLOR, Mich.
Two Detroit men
face trial in ATM
theft, chase
Two Detroit men are headed
to trial on charges that they
rammed a stolen rental van into
a gas station in the suburb of
Taylor, made off with an auto-
mated teller machine and later
fled from police.
Taylor District Court Judge
Geno Salomone yesterday bound
25-year-old Arthur Williams
and 19-year-old Arthur Foun-
tain over for trial on larceny,
safebreaking and other charges.
The men will be arraigned in
Wayne County Circuit Court on
Feb. 18.
Police say Williams and
Fountain were arrested after
the ATM fell from the rear of
the. van. No money was taken
from the machine.
Messages seeking comment
were left for Williams' attorney,
Dana Nessel, and Fountain's
attorney, Jeffrey Edison.
- Compiled from
Dailygvire reports

Obama fights
stimulus critics

President Barack Obama watches as Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner speaks about executive compensation yesterday in
the Grand Foyer at the White House in Washington.
Obama caps salaries
of bailout recipients

Dem. leaders pledge
to have legislation
ready by next week
WASHINGT'ON(AP)-Politeyet
pointed, President Barack Obama
pushed back against Republican
critics of the economic stimulus
legislation making its way through
Congress yesterday at the same
time he reached across party lines
to consider changes in the bill.
"Let's not make the perfect the
enemy of the essential," Obama
said as Senate Republicans
stepped up their criticism of the
bill's spending and pressed for
additional tax cuts and relief for
homeowners. He warned that fail-
ure to act quickly "will turn crisis
into a catastrophe and guarantee
a longer recession."
Democratic leaders have pledged
tohavelegislationreadyforObama's
signature by the end of next week,
and they concede privately they
will have to accept some spending
reductions along the way.
"This bill needs to be cut down,"
Republican Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky said on the Senate floor.

He cited $524 million for a State
Department program that he said
envisions creating 388 jobs. "That
comes to $1.35 million per job," he
added.
Republicans readied numer-
ous attempts to reduce the cost of
the $900 billion measure, which
includes tax cuts and new spend-
ing designed to ignite recovery
from the worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression.
But after days of absorbing rhe-
torical attacks, Obama and Senate
Democrats mounted a counterof-
fensive against Republicans who
say tax cuts alone can cure the
economy.
Obama said the criticisms he
has heard "echo the very same
failed economic theories that led
us into this crisis in the first place,
the notion that tax cuts alone will
solve all our problems."
"I reject those theories, and so
did the American people when
they went to the polls in Novem-
ber and voted resoundingly for
change," said the president, who
was elected with an Electoral Col-
lege landslide last fall and enjoys
high public approval ratings atthe
outset of his term.

President imposes
$500,000 cap on
senior exec. pay
WASHINGTON(AP)-President
Barack Obama yesterday imposed a
$500,000 cap on senior executive
pay for the most distressed finan-
cial institutions receiving taxpayer
bailout money and promised new
steps to end a system of "executives
being rewarded for failure."
Obama announced the unusual
government intervention into cor-
porate America at the White House,
with Treasury Secretary Timothy
Geithner at his side. The president
said the executive-pay limits are
a first step, to be followed by the
unveiling next week of a sweeping
new framework for spending what
remains of the $700 billion finan-
cial industry bailout that Congress

created last year.
The pay limitcomes amid a nation-
al outcry over huge bonuses to execu-
tives who head companies that seek
taxpayer dollars to remain afloat. The
demand for limits was reinforced by
revelations that Wall Streetfirms paid
more than $18 billion in bonuses in
2008 amid the economic down-
turn and the massive infusion of
taxpayer dollars.
The limit would apply to top-
paid executives at the most dis-
tressed financial institutions
that are negotiating bailout
agreements with the federal
government. It also would apply
to other banks that receive aid,
but they could get around the
limits by publicizing to share-
holders plans to exceed the sal-
ary cap.
The limits would not apply
retroactively to any bank that
received money from the first

half of the $700 bailout allocatedby
Congress. For example, the restric-
tion would not apply to such firms
as American International Group
Inc., Bank of America Corp., and
Citigroup Inc., that already have
received such help.


Salazar scraps sale of
Utah oil-and-gas lease

Interior secretary
reverses Bush decision
on 77 parcels of
federal land
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) - In a
high-profile reversal of the Bush
administration, Interior Secretary
Ken Salazar said yesterday the gov-
ernment is scrapping the lease of 77
parcels of federal land for oil and gas
drilling in Utah's redrock country.
"In the last weeks in office, the
Bush administration rushed ahead
to sell oil and gas leases near some
of our nation's most precious land-
scapes in Utah," Salazar said from
Washington in a teleconference
call with reporters.
He ordered the Bureau of Land
Management, which is part of the
Interior Department, to not cash
checks from winning bidders for
parcels at issue in a lawsuit filed by
environmental groups.
The sales were worth $6 million

to the government in addition to
royalties on any oil or gas pro-
duction.
"We will take time and a fresh
look at these 77 parcels to see if
they are appropriate for oil and
gas development," Salazar said.
A federal judge put the sale of
the 77 parcels on hold last month
until the lawsuit was resolved.
Now, Salazar is refusing to sell
any of them - at least until the
new administration has a chance
to take a second look.
Conservation groups prom-
ised to press ahead with the
lawsuit to challenge long-term
management plans that made
the sale of the parcels possible
in the first place. The plans, gov-
erning 7 millions acres of public
land in Utah, were approved by
the BLM last year.
Among critics of December's
lease auction was Robert Red-
ford, who owns Sundance ski
resort and has spent a lifetime
on horseback in southern Utah's
canyons.


' FLORIDA SPRING BREAK ROOM PACKAGES 4 DAY/3 NITE 6 DAY/5 NITE 8 DAY/7 NITE

T, . u. .
't .v.a e . r r:. . n nr r er cf e n r f cf r cnlc rear rn m t _ Crrrn rxrrva irinn Cr r r rv Qrcrv r'"vrv ri taieat+c


4A - Thursday, February 5, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4e , Iicl igan 4,3a*lg

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Low-income living
Affordable housing needed by students and residents alike
orget struggling with classes or trying to balance extracur-
ricular activities, one of the most intimidating aspects of
college is trying to find reasonably priced housing within
walking distance of Central Campus. Across the city, exorbitant
rent has left students and permanent residents in a tough finan-
cial spot. For residents, however, that problem could be alleviated
if a new proposal to convert three downtown city parking lots into
low-income housing is executed. More low-income housing for Ann
Arbor residents is definitely a good thing, but the city shouldn't for-
get about its students. Initiatives to provide students with the same
kind of affordable housing should also be in the works.

No, the Republicans were not
all standing in one corner.!
- Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D - Minn.), commenting on the interactions of President Obama's
Super Bowl guests, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
HARUN BULJINA E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU.
Maybeout of irony.
Do you think modern
science could bring it
back?
ndigen ous empowerment

Community development officials from
the city of Ann Arbor and Washtenaw
County recently proposed conversion of
three parking lots to create between 60 and
100 low-income units. These units would be
targeted at people who make 10 to 15 per-
cent of the area's median income of $51,232.
That would include many of the permanent
city residents unable to afford the rising rent
across }the city Though expected to cost
between $6.3 and $14.7 million, federal tax
credits would cover approximately 80 per-
cent of building expenses - and the city has
students to thank for that.
The city is eligible for much of its federal
funding due to the fact that students are
included in the federal census. The presence
of students makes the average city income
appear lower than it actually is because
many students are dependent on their par-
ents and, on paper, have no income. This
lowers the city's average income and the city
can receive more federal dollars. So if the
city is going to profit from the presence of
students in Ann Arbor, students should be
benefiting as well.
Though rising rent is the result of stu-
dents' willingness to pay up, what students
really need is affordable housing close to
campus. And recent developments like 601

Forest have done little to ease the pressure
on students' bank accounts or demonstrate
that the city is ready to get serious about
affordable housing. It's time for the city to
step in and give students the same options
it wants to give residents - after all, the stu-
dents are partly the cause of these federal
dollars.
Ann Arbor residents and students all
need and deserve more low-income hous-
ing. Close, affordable housing has benefits
of all sorts. In cities like Ann Arbor, lim-
ited mass transit options necessitate living
close to the city. Low-income families can't
afford to move further out to find lower rent
when they still have to commute to the city.
Plus, if financially disadvantaged people are
forced to live further and further away from
campus it segregates Ann Arbor by income.
Local, affordable housing also has other
advantages, like decreasing the need for car
traffic, clearing busy streets and helping the
environment.
The proposal could provide some resi-
dents with the housing they need. But that
only solves part of the problem - students
make up an important part of the city and
their needs have to be considered. The city
government should spend some of those fed-
eral dollars on helping us out, too.

olivia, the poorest nation in
South America, is on the verge
of adopting a new constitution.
After approximate-
ly 500 years of rule
by Europeans and
their descendants,
the country elected
its first indigenous
president, Evo
Morales, in 2006.
Morales has since 3
worked to remove
the inequalities IBRAHIIM
stemming from the KAKWAN
concentration of
land and resources
in the hands of a
few wealthy families. You may be
thinking, 'That's great, but for those
of us who are not Bolivian, why does
this matter?'
The most immediate answer is
natural resources. As the supply of oil
becomes increasingly unstable and
consumers seek greener alternatives
to gasoline power, lithium ion batter-
ies are expected to take on a greater
share of the power storage burden.
Bolivia has approximately 50 percent
of the-world's lithium reserves, along
with a sizeable amount of the world's
tungsten, tin, antimony, and others
- many of which are used in the cre-
ation of steel.
Companies including BMW, Mit-
subishi and Michigan-based General
Motors are currently developing elec-
tric cars that rely on lithium batteries;
the GM Volt is slated to be released
next year, and cell phones and laptops
already use them. At a time when car
buyers are few, lower lithium prices
would contribute to a lower over-
all cost for the new electric cars and
potentially drive higher sales.
Unfortunately, the leftward lean-
ings of the Bolivian government have
made it difficult for foreign compa-
nies to tap that country's mineral
resources, and given the complexity
of lithium refinement, the Bolivians
are not in a position to undertake the
task alone on any great scale. In 2006,

Morales announced the national-
ization of oil and gas. As recently as
January 23,,the Bolivian government
took control of a BP subsidiary. This
will earn the government additional
revenues, but given the potential for
a nearly total loss of investments, few
new companies are willing to venture
into Bolivia. The resources lay unused
while Bolivia and potential investors
lose.
The seeming justice of nationaliza-
tion, indigenous empowerment and
land redistribution after hundreds of
years of oppression is understandable
but impractical. Saul Villegas, the
official in charge of lithium extrac-
tion, only highlights the ridiculous-
ness of the government's position;
"Maybe there could be the possibil-
ity of foreigners accepted as minority
partners, or better yet, as our clients,"
he told the New York Times this
week. Bolivian miners are currently
loading salt into trucks with shovels,
and the government expects foreign
companies to set up the industry, only
to become minority partners while
risking nationalization.
Bolivia's indigenous populationhas
had a longer period of exploitation
than many other indigenous people,
partially bankrolling Spain for hun-
dreds of years and then the Euro-
pean-descended Bolivian elite after
the country gained independence.
But taking back the country and its
resources overnight is not a good idea,
nor does it excuse wishful thinking.
Granted, "imperialist" resource
exploitation agreements impose
unfair terms on the hostcountries, but
they work in the long run to develop
their economies. These agreements
are what fueled the growth of the
Middle Eastern oil kingdoms. When
the sheikhs were rich in oil but lacked
capital and drilling experience, these
imperialist agreements helped to
transform the oil under their feet into
the cash that their nations were built
upon.
Bolivia's new constitution incorpo-
rates a land redistribution program

that will wrest control of hundreds of
square miles of land from the wealthy
and transfer it to the state 'and the
poor, but this will also destroy some
of the country's most productive
farms. On the surface, indigenous
empowerment may seem like a good
thing. But after years of operating far
behind modern methods of efficiency,
empowerment will hurt the fragile
economy of Bolivia, which is already
in decline due to tumbling metal pric-
es. Of course, it is the "empowered"
(i.e., the indigenous people) who will
suffer most and who may end up
worse off than they were before.
Nationalizing
industries can kill
a new economy.
Take the case of Zimbabwe. After
the black majority took control of the
country (then called Rhodesia) from
the white minority in 1980, various
black African factions engaged in a
civil war. In the early 1990s, the coun-
try was gripped by political turmoil
with state employees striking over
low wages. By 1997, 36 percent of the
population had HIV, and the land
redistribution of 2000 transformed
the country from a model of African
agricultural efficiency into the site of
a cholera outbreak and home of the
$100 trillion Zimbabwean bill.
A large part of Zimbabwe's plight
is due to mismanagement and corrup-
tion, but a sense of entitlement along
ethnic and national lines helped it to
take root.
Luckily for Morales and Bolivia,
Chavez and his oil money are there
to help if the going gets tough. In the
meantime, I'll have to pay more for
that new laptop battery.
- Ibrahim Kakwan can be
reached at ijameel@umich.edu.

I

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less thar 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
ST T T TEE TSEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Lower drinking age creates because I enjoy interacting with people.
intellectual drinking climate EitanInga

I

TO THE DAILY:
In his September 11, 2008 column, (A toast
to Amethyst, 09/11/08), now-Interfraternity only wors
Council President Ari Parritz discussed the
merits of the The Amethyst Initiative, which
"wants us to take a closer look at the efficacy TO THE DAILY:
of the National Minimum Drinking Age Act of How many pe
1984." sion of1981-82?V
Having spent close to a month studying at higher unemploy
Oxford University in the United Kingdom now, the govern
where the drinking age is 18, I feel compelled country out of it
to emphasize this issue. Keep this in min
I will not waste your time making the usual to yesterday's col
arguments for lowering the drinking age: ulatingSolution, 0
reversing the "forbidden fruit" temptation or Green seems
we can go to war, vote and get the death pen- rowed $900 billi
alty but can't drink, etc. ment and expans
Instead, I implore you to consider the link to cover up politi
between a positive drinking culture and billion to be spe
healthy socio-cultural development. One only considered stims
needs to spend a few weeks mingling with spending)..
international students to realize that American The remaining
youths are rapidly falling behind our interna- most extensive
tional counterparts in terms of our depth and grams and pork i
breadth of knowledge, intellectual curiosity, dent Obama pro
sense of collective responsibility and general this package - t
ability to conduct positive, daily social inter- each. Green arg
actions. should be consid
Americanuniversityculture revolves around Republicans and
drinking. English university culture revolves ground between
around conversation while drinking. Can you ernment never ci
think of the last time you pounded back five tribute whilemon
shots of Grey Goose and had a stimulating con- Whenever the gt
versation about the technological innovations things like the T
in microprocessing chips, international poli- tration, hardly a
tics, the theater or a good book? Since Ameri- The most am
can students aren't allowed to drink at a bar, describesthe fail
we drink in our rooms, with music blasting age was passed i
and the TV on. Drinking has become as selfish ently learning fr
as it is social. them isn't an op
What if on a Friday after classes, a group of money.
freshmen went to the Brown Jug, ordered a Government is
pitcher of beer, sat face-to-face and interacted? problems - gove
Would they get drunk? Quite possibly. But they Just as in the G
would strengthen their friendships in positive ernment stopped
ways and help perpetuate the deep bonds that recovery came q
are integral to any society. generations do n
Pub drinking is a highly pleasant experience stupidity of the p
I was deprived of growing up in the U.S., only to
realize its priceless value now that I'm abroad. Samvan Kleef
Not just because I may enjoy, tasty ale but also LSA fpshman

stimulus plan will
,en the economy
ople have heard about the reces-
ery few, because although we had
ment and inflation than we have
went didn't try to stimulate the
and the recession quickly abated.
d when considering my objection
umn by Matthew Green (A Stim-
02/04/09).
to imply that a completely bor-
on worth of constituent appease-
ion of entitlements is the solution
icians' mistakes. Out of the $900
nt, less than 10 percent can be
ulus (tax cuts and infrastructure
g 90 percent of this money is the
enlargement of entitlement pro-
n the history of this nation. Presi-
mises four million new jobs with
hat totals to an absurd $225,000
ues that this waste of money
ered a "middle ground" between
Democrats. There is no middle
being right or wrong. The gov-
reates anything, it can only redis-
neyleaksoutofeverytransaction.
overnment "creates" jobs, we get
ransportation Security Adminis-
shining beacon of efficiency.
using line by Green is when he
ure ofthe previous stimulus pack-
n the beginning of 2008. Appar-
om mistakes and not repeating
tion when considering taxpayer
s not the solution to our economic
rnment is what causes problems.
reat Depression, once the gov-
d trying to control the economy,
uickly. Let us hope that future
not bear the burden of the fiscal
revious generations.

4

ELISE BAUNve eitT
Give credit where credit is due

I

In light of the recent economy,
some Michigan students who decided
to attend college out-of-state might
find themselves regretting that deci-
sion. To help them out, the University
is considering re-admitting them as
transfer students and allowing them
to pay in-state tuition. This would be
a nice gesture if it actually alleviated
some financial woes. But in reality,
transfer students often have to repeat
too many credits to make this a practi-
cal solution.
Prospective transfer students can
determine which of their credits will
transfer by looking it up online, but
the first problem with the process is
that the website is nearly impossible
to find. When students do find it, they
will learn that the University claims
C grades or higher in their classes are
likely to successfully transfer. Unfor-
tunately, this is misleading.
Many students who attempt to
transfer to the University find them-
selves needing to repeat courses that
they've already taken - something
to do with other college classes not
matching up to the University of
Michigan's caliber, I suppose.
And credits that do transfer might
not actually fulfill distribution or
concentration requirements, instead
only counting toward the 120 credits
needed to graduate. The decision on
whether or not to aqcept the credits is

based on how the course description
at the old university compares to the
classes offered here. If the descrip-
tion is close enough, the credits might
transfer.
Since many students wind up need-
ing to retake courses based on this
system, they end up staying longer at
the University. Transfers will end up
spending so much money and extra
time that they may wish they should
have just stayed at their original col-
leges. It's unrealistic to assume that
allowing more students to transfer
will help them with theii troubles.
It's not just the problem of students
needing to repeat courses. If students
received Advanced Placement credit
at the university they were originally
attending and then took courses above
that level, they may still have to take
introductory courses here because the
AP score threshold for college credit
won't necessarily match up.
One of my friends went to Michi-
gan Tech, took upper-level physics
courses and wanted to transfer to the
University of Michigan to enroll in
the aerospace engineering program.
Unfortunately, his AP score doesn't
count here, so he would have had to
take the introductory physics courses
here before he could start the rest of
his education, even though his cred-
its for higher physics courses would
transfer. Where is the logic in this?

The final flaw in this system is the
lack of communication between trans-
fer students and advisors. Transfer
students fill out tons of paperwork,
have their coursework scrutinized
and are then put through a subjective
system that determines which credits
will transfer and which won't. Not all
advisors can say for certain what the
department will accept. This means
that prospective students might be
told by an advisor that a lot of their
classes will count here, but then have
their hard work rejected by someone
else who hasn't even talked to them.
It is admirable of the University
to try to help out students who wish
to transfer back in state. Hopefully
accepting more students back into the
University will help keep jobs in the
state and help to repair our dismal
economy. But if the University really
wants to make this work, it needs to
help those students who do make the
final decision to transfer here. They
need to be able to count more credits,
look at each student individually and
be more logical in the admissions pro-
cess without bogging students down
with paperwork. It's not enough just
to tell students they can transfer here
- the University can and should do
more to make this process less painful
for all prospective transfer students.
Elise Bapn is an LSA senior.

I

{


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 5, 2009 - 5A

How Mother Nature could stifle Wolverines

n the early-morning hours of
Jan. 11, Mike Jones was talk-
ing on the phone in his dorm
room when the fire alarm went off.
Jones, an early enrollee on the
Michigan football team, figured
someone was playing a prank. So he
grabbed a light jacket and headed
outside. He quickly realized he'd
walked into the
annual West
Quad-South
Quad snowball
fight.
Jones, a
Florida native,
didn't throw
any snowballs
because he DAN
didn't have FELDMAN
gloves. So he
just stood off
the side and watched.
Asked which dorm won, Jones
said he had no idea. He was too
cold to concentrate on what was
going on around him.
So how will he, or any of the
other 11 signees from warm-
weather states, handle November
football games - or just living - in
the Midwest?
In his first full offseason, Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez has sig-
nificantly altered the Wolverines'
recruiting strategy after replacing

Lloyd Carr, emphasizing the South
as a recruiting pipeline.
Seventeen of Rodriguez's 29
recruits have come from warm-
'weather states, compared to 33 of
Carr's 136 recruits from 2002 to
2008.
This new strategy of marching
through the South carries signifi-
cant risk, but Rodriguez has done
an impressive job of minimizing it.
Risk: Wasting time on pros-
pects who wouldn't want to come
and missing out on local recruits
who would be more receptive to a
Michigan offer, therefore ending
up with a lower-quality class.
Response: The Wolverines had
a more-impressive class from the
state of Florida than any out-of-
state program. And Michigan is
seventh in rivals.com's recruiting
rankings - eight spots ahead of
Michigan State, which focused
mostly on in-state recruiting.
The Wolverines already have a
commitment from Ricardo Miller,
one of Florida's top-ranked players
in the class of 2010. And Michigan
is high on the list of several other
Floridians in the class.
Secondary coach Tony Gibson
said opposing coaches use the
cold, snowy Ann Arbor weather in
hopes of persuading recruits not
to travel north. But Gibson said a

lot of negative recruiting can be
a positive when recruitsvisit and
see the weather isn't as bad as they
imagined.
And many of the players, some
of whom had never seen snow
before, actually see the weather as
a positive for Michigan.
Denard Robinson and Adrian
Witty, two of the eight Florida
natives to sign with the Wolverines
Wednesday, made snow angels
and had a snowball fight in the Big
House with Rodriguez on their
official visit.
Rodriguez even told the story
of a recruit who tried to take some
snow in a Ziploc bag, just to be dis-
appointed when it melted on the
plane home.
Risk: Players used to playing in
warm weather will tank in Novem-
ber.
Response: Five players from
warm-weather states are already
on campus due to early enrollment.
This is, by far, the biggest worry
with Rodriguez's recruiting strat-
egy.
Enrolling early will help play-
ers get accustomed to the cold. A
freshman last year, slot receiver
Martavious Odoms struggled
mightily against Northwestern -
the Wolverines' first game of the
season in the bitter cold.

Michigan football coach Rich Rodriguez has made a point of opening a recruiting pipeline in the talent-rich state of Florida.

Most of the early enrollees from
warm-weather states acknowl-
edged their play would be affected
by the cold if they had to play a
game today. Still, they were confi-
dent they would be well-adjustedby
the weather changes next season.
But I'm not so sure. Wide receiv-
er Greg Mathews, an Orlando, Fla.,
native, shivered uncontrollably
after last year's spring game. To be
fair, that was a very cold day - but
that was his third year at Michi-

gan.
On the flip side, players should
have more productive offseasons.
Quarterbacks coach Rod Smith
said summer workouts were
"so hot and humid, you couldn't
breathe," when he worked at South
Florida.
But wins over Ohio State, not
summer workouts, will obviously
be how this class and Rodriguez's
recruiting strategy will be judged.
Games against the Buckeyes

are in the bitter cold of November.
Rodriguez is taking a calculated
risk that his southern imports can
heat up the rivalry - and that The
Game doesn't freeze them out.
He has done all he can to
increase his chances, but his
team's fate may have more to do
with Mother Nature than his
coaching.
- Feldman can be reached
at danfeld@umich.edu.

Blue not concerned by shooti

Lucas-Perry and
others work on
shots with Beilein
By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
In the locker room following the
Michigan men's basketball tean's
66-51 loss to Illinois on Jan. 14, each
player echoed a similar sentiment.
"We just didn't make our shots
tonight."
It seems like the Wolverines have
been saying that a lot lately.
So on Tuesday morning, the
Michigan players had individual
workouts to focus on their shot.
"We're just trying to get our
stroke back," fifth-year senior guard
David Merritt said.
Since the Illinois game, Michigan
has lost five of six games and made
just 39.1 percent of its shots.
Before the skid, the team was

shooting 44.2 percent from the coach John Beilein on Tuesday, the
field. pair didn't find much wrong with
The Wolverines have been out- Lucas-Perry's form.
shot in every "We shot one day, and he shot so
game during the Penn State well, it was like,'there's nothingbro-
six-game stretch, ken here,"' Beilein said. "So you just
including three in at Michigan keep going. When you're open, you
which the oppos- Matchup: got to justto continue to keep shoot-
ing team shot bet- PSU 17-5; ing. You also got to leave him alone
ter thani50 percent Michigan 17-9 because there can be a tendency to
from the field. When: Tonight overthink a bit like a golfer."
Redshirt 7 p.m. The key for the Wolverines to
freshman Laval Where: Crisler bounce back this evening against
Lucas-Perry has Arena Penn State may be simple - stop
especially strug- TV/Radio: BTN overanalyzing and just shoot.
gled as of late. The Nittany Lions (6-3 Big Ten,
Lucas-Perry is Live Blog: 17-5 overall) beat Michigan 73-58
known for having http://thegame. two weeks ago when they shot a
one of the smooth- blogs.michi- blistering 58 percent from the field
est releases on the gandaily.com and 52.9 percent from behind the
team and scored in arc.
double figures in his first six games And it wasn't a fluke. Penn State
as a Wolverine. But in his last six upset No. 14 Michigan State 72-68
games, Lucas-Perry is just 10-of-35 in East Lansing on Sunday by shoot-
for 32 points. ing 56.3 percent.
When he worked on the funda- "They're one of the most danger-
mentals of his shot with Michigan ous teams because of the fact they

ng slump
run great sets, great plays," Beilein
said. "If you can win at Michigan
State, you can beat Duke at Duke."
Tonight's game begins a tough
three-game stretch that includes at
No. 1 Connecticut on Saturday and
Michigan State on Tuesday.
And with Michigan sitting
squarely on the NCAA Tournament
bubble, the players know they can't
afford to lose all three of these criti-
cal games.
"These next three games can
make or break our season," Mer-
ritt said. "The sense of urgency is
definitely there ... Penn State is a
really good team, and this league is
so tough this year that if we can get
this one at home, that will set us up
nicely against Connecticut."
As for tonight, Beilein simply
hopes his team can pick up a win
one shot at a time.
"It's important - to have some
bounce in your step," Beilein said.
"The way you get a bounce in your
step is by getting wins."

'M' penalty-kill unit
strong after slow start

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Oct. 25 was the lowest of lows
for the Michigan hockey team's
penalty kill.
On that day, the unit got demol-
ished in its first real test of the
season, surrendering five power-
play goals in an embarrassing 7-2
loss at then-No. 7 Boston Univer-
sity.
"We weren't involved in our
system, we weren't working with
each other and you need four
guys to be in concert out there,"
Michigan assistant coach Billy

Powers said yesterday, reflecting
on the game.
"They got to be pulling and
working together because if one
guy breaks down, it affects the
other three as far as what we're
trying to do in our rotation."
What made it even worse was
that Boston and Michigan run
a very similar power play. But
with a man down, the Wolverines
played passively and fell furthier
behind the play with each Terrier


OK, SMARTY PANTS
LET'S DO THE MATH.
You grab a friend and head out to any of Qdoba locations in Ann Arbor.
LA1 of you has a Buy Burrito Get Free Coupon in your cell phone.
You show the coupon when you come in and get 1 free, delicious burrito.
Lt friends enjoy a great meal, friend eats for free. Calculates quite nicely.
Or, you come as a party of fj], and you show your coupon when you come in.
person enjoys burritos and burrito is absolutely free. Adds up equally
well. To get your Buy 1 Burrito Get Free Coupon, take a * . 00
picture of this JAGTAG with your Verizon or AT&T phone
and send the picture to (iPhones send to
iphonendjagtag.net). You'll get your coupon (up to a $6.50 value) sent right back
to your phone. Just bring your phone when you come in, and show us your coupon

APRIL 19 % -
'ON SALE THIS FRI. @ 10 AM!

FEBRUARY 9

when you check out.
Available only to AT&T and Verizon customers.
Standard messaging rates apply.
Now by North Campus!
Plymouth Road 2252 South Main w Washtenaw Avenue
& Murfin Avenue @ AA-Saline Road & Huron Parkway

MEXICAN GRILL

Coupon expires 2/8/09.Void where prohibited, taxed or restricted. Consumers must pay any sales tax. Not responsible for
misdirected, garbled, delayed, lost or late coupons. Certain other restrictions may apply. To view program Terms & Conditions,
visit http://www.jagtag.com/support/TermsConditions.htm.
5,

.4


4

6A- Thursday, February 5, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOUND: WOMEN'S WINTER
hat/beret. E-mail @
mwolfel@umich.edu
prking .2
PARKING SPACE AT corner of Divi-
sion/Huron. Easy access, paved lot -
plowed/salted. $135/mo. 994-8120.
PARKING SPACESAVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
Or rent
*6 /
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
.1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL 09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
eAartments Available!

ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious f & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

Now until theyre gone, get a pizza
coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge;
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
Tower
!6-BEDROOM House!
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 - 8 people. Close to
Downtown, Zingerman's & summer
farm market! (734) 668-1100.
www.varstymanagement.com
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info~cposrealyproperties.com
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
**AVAIL FALL '093 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 . State. Sept. 09. Ldry. A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM., UPPER half ef hese with
free washer/dryer, separate entrance.
A/C, lots of closet space, extra storage
in basement, small backyard, off street
parking, close to campus and bus lines.
Some pets allowed. 775/mo + utilities.
Available early March, Call Mike 734-
646-5771.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heal/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdr.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back.
Call 248-214-8708!
6 BDRM. FALL 09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.'
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kich, R3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
I Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S .UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland- LEFT
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 IHigh
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Hoosing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Managemwetnt 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus e/wilsonwhitemanagetnent.com

AVAIL. FALL2009!!
!Special rates for February!
!Lease Now!
Incredible location! I & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
ufurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking. Small management
company with excellent record of per-
sonal service. We provide first rate ser-
vice! Lease with a
company thatstrnly cares!
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
Studs & I
Towrer Plaza Condominium
Q6e & Secre Highrise -- One bkxk from Campus.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BIG HSE: 5 1g. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free idry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009

4fted 0,04
19 Great Locations
Studio -4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.ainarboraparEtmentls.net.
or Visit us at
1700 Geddes AVe.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY.
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009

3 bedrooms:
3 Bedrooms 529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
720 West Washington (Charming Old 510 Miller $1695
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395 4 bedrooms:
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad) 1119 Granger $2395
$1785 337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms:
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995 314 E. Summit $1995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995 515 5. Fourth $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995 6 Bedrooms:
1014 Vatghn (Furnished) $2995 504 Catherine $3495
804-Lawrence $3545
6 Bedrooms 701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095 7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne- 12 Bedrooms:
gotiable ton! Wilson White 1307 S. State $5500

www.Bartonbrook.comn 734-665-5620
!NEW FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE!!
Newly built, 4-bdrm./3 bath. hse. Ctr.
a/c, dwshr., ldry., deck, garage, free
prkg. Close to medical school! 1318
Jones 734-995-8695 $1990/mo.
!2 BDRMS - Great campus locations!
1001 5. Forest, 526 & 917 Packard,
848 Tappan, & 5216Walnut. All fur-
nished, include heat, water, and park-
ing, some have free wireless!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!3 BEDROOM Apts!
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.

Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campts@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heast/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard.
5 or 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free
dry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, hg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
uni versitytowers-miw. colw

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, February 5, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Writer Santha 39 Place to stay 49 Relax on the
1 Malicious rumor Rama _ 40 Robertson of porch
7 Wave away, 6 Popular advice CNN 50 Dense
maybe show 41 "Really!" 52 Beat reallyfast
11 Homer's father 7 Quaked 44 Hawthorne's 55 Roman statesman
141998 All-Star 8 Kind of hwy. lane adultress 56 "It's c-c-c-cold!"
Game MVP 9 Bend's st. 45 Gadabout 57 _-Ball
15 French _ 10 Charge 46 Special Olympics 60 I follower?
16 MBA, e.g. 11 Samuel Barber's founder Shriver 61 Aot's season
17 Shredding "_ for Strings" 47"_ Newsroom": 62 Bad review
evidence of one's 12 Deprived cable show 63 "Happy Days"
mistake? 13 Casts out 48 Official orders nickname
19 "__ you serious?" 18 Designer Chanel
20 Damascus is its 23 Campus letter ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
cap. 24 Sensible
21 Boo follower 25 Walked S C H M O D E A F B I D S
22 Exhorts 26 Golden State O R A T E I F F Y A G E E
24 Work period most sch. B E R M U D A T R I A N G L E
prone to 27 Peel E T I V I P S WA Y I N
robberies? 2Abbeytitle RE E PRVE L E OYN
28 Lily Munster 29' t": Verdi ara P EARLI S L IA N D S
portrayer Yvonne 30 Watergate
31 (In) conspiracy prosecutor DAL I S OATS OilL
32 College townon 33 Flow partner o P E C C H A R D BO N O
Maine's Stillwater 35 Pakistani T O N M O OD S E N S E
River language S P A N I S H S T E P S
33 Whisperer's 36 Barely audible I N T O E D I T O R S
target sound T R I BE CAA N N E E
34 Grace that starts 37 Professional Y
with amen? leader? KA E LUB M A O ONED
42 Confederate 38 Astin who played
43,meenie.. amin"rd E R S T B RAG H O N E Y
44 onbefore the Rings" films xwordeditor@aol.com 02/05/09
49 Court 1 2 3 4 na o 7 a 10 11 12 13
51 Bird that helps
cattlemen? 14 15 1
53 "Live atlthe
Acropolis" 17 16 19
musician 20 21 22 a3
54 Fake it
55 Letterman 24 a2 26 27
letters?
58 teo9tr m n30 31
58 Letters for 2 2 1
someone with 32 3
just one given
name 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41
59 Physical exam
rating?423
64 IBM rival
65 Carry
66 "No Exit" 51 52
dramatist
67Bard's'"prior to" '3 4 ss s s7
08 Zipped
69 Extra number or s- se n 61 on
DOWN
1 Musical Mama o7 - 6 on
2 One on your side
3 Bleak genre By.ack Mcntur 02/05/M9
4 Rock blaster (c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

I

Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
"D0on'ltwmiss out on the
Best Central Campus DEALS!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This will not lasIt long, when they're
gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
inch. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkgino-pes.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
X557
054
-5pm
Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
ble- 025 - Parking
en 030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
s 045 - Technoly
S
050 - Furniture
one
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
S 080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 -Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 Announcements
ity of
ssue 123 - Websites
, TMD 125 - Music
ration.
at a 130 - Roommates
S: 140 - Food & Entertainment
not yet
for 150 - Persona
pio 160 - Pets


I

Deadlne for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2115 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are availa
Contact our staff for detals* Students may receive a 25% discount who
ads are placed in person with a vald student ID (non-organizational, non
busines cads only) n All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileget
have been estabi shed n We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Expres
DCover, cash, or check n For Classified Display advertising, please callc
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 8.60 12.0 17.20 21.50 25.80
3 lines 12.0 1.35 25.80 32.25 38.70
4lines 17,20 25.80 3,40 43.00 51.60

I

Policies:
Abbreviations: Onlys:
TMD for failure to publi
shll be lmited to publi
wil be responsble for cl
Rates: Al changes she
consecutive rate if requ
Advertisers may cancel
been pubshed. Refus
resale of tickets at mor

.abbreviations as defined by TMD wll be accepted. Misprints: The labl
vertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specifiedi
a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion
J advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publc
the open rates ines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extendeda
nd paid in full by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refund
efore publcation deadine, but no refund will be given unless the ad hasr
ds are subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisements
ce value. TIMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items

ested a
an ad b
al: Al a
re than fa

I

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 5, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, February 5, 2009 - 7A

New student group to aid
entrepreneurs overseas

ACTING IN THE ATRIUM
'W dP
S

In the spring, Global
Business Brigades
will work in Panama
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
While most students will be
enjoyingtheirfreedomfromschool
in May, a few University students
will be traveling to Central Ameri-
ca to participate in volunteer work
aimed at curbing global poverty.
The University chapter of Glob-
al Business Brigades will give stu-
dents the opportunity to travel and
work with communities in Central
America. The group will work
with the communities in a variety
of ways: from helping them start
businesses to working with them
to better manage crops. Collin
Petersonpresidentand co-founder
of the University's chapter of GBB,
said the group provides an "easy
gateway" to volunteering while
,lso teaching basic skills needed to
help communities in need.
"Our goals are based upon the
resolution of poverty," he said.
"That is an extraordinary goal that
cannot be accomplished by solely
our group, but each step that we

take is one step closer."
Peterson said he hopes to make
the trip to Central America a regu-
lar excursion, beginning with this
year's trip to Panama.
Matt Boesler, executive director
of the University's chapter of GBB,
said he hopes the trip will help
alleviate poverty in Panama.
"By helping to expand small
businesses, we will build com-
munity wealth and encourage the
spirit of entrepreneurship in a way
that I believe will help to break the
cycle of poverty that many Pana-
manians face," he said.
Boesler added that he thinks
the group's trip to Panama will not
only benefit the country but also
the group's participants.
"Our trip will be one week early
in the summer, during which we
hope to provide consulting, micro-
finance and educational services
to developing microenterprises -
businesses that could range from
two people weaving hammocks to
a community-wide farmingco-op,"
he said.
Boesler said that the partici-
pants' skills include accounting,
business management and agricul-
ture. He said this broad variety of
abilities will allow the organiza-
tion to help the communities in as

many ways as possible.
Peterson said the trips are
largely dependent on the nation-
al program of the club and will
require the University's chapter to
fundraise and hold special events
in order to send members on the
trips.
"Throughout the entire process
we will be planning our trips with
help from our national nonprofit
organization, Global Business Bri-
gades," he said. "From this organi-
zation we are given projects, many
of which are from the Peace Corps."
The idea to start a University
chapter of the group came natu-
rally to Peterson, who said he has
a passion for helping the global
community.
"With such diversity and mas-
sive amounts of resources here at
the University, we have come to
realize the effects we can have on
the world," he said. "After doing
some research, we stumbled across
this organization, who shares many
of the aspirations that we hold."
Before it heads to Panama, the
group is focusing on recruiting as
many new members as possible
by blitzing campus with fliers and
mass meetings.
"We want to get our name out
there," Peterson said.

ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
Students watch a show by the Impro-fessionals at the LSA Student Government-sponsored "Night of LSA" last night in East Hall.

SERVICE
From Page1A
Last year had already been a
record-breaking year for the orga-
nization, as it received over 25,000
applications from over 90 colleges.
Lorraine Anderson, recruitment
communications director for Teach
for America, said in an e-mail inter-
view that 2009 is already well sur-
passing those numbers.
She said the increase in student
interest can be linked to Obama's
call to join national service pro-
grams.
"We see multiple causes for this
increase in applicants thus far,"
Anderson said. "Including the
excitement around the recent elec-

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com

tion, and the growing enthusiasm
among young people to enter pub-
lic service and make a measurable,
positive impact on society."
The Peace Corps has also report-
ed an overwhelming increase in
applications. Since last year, there
has already been a 16 percent
increase in applications, the largest
in the past five years.
Christine Torres, a public affairs
specialist at the Chicago Regional
Peace Corps office, said that from
Jan. 20-21, 2008 to the same dates
in 2009, there was a 63-percent
increase in applications nation-
wide.
And accordingto the Peace Corps
Top Colleges and Universities list,
the University of Michigan has
played its part, ranking in the top
MILANO
From Page 1A
Kampfer was not present at the
second day of the preliminary hear-
ing, but both his parents were. They
were not available for comment.
The pre-trial date was set for
March 12, where both sides will

five for each of the last four years.
But despite the recent spike in
interest, these organizations say
they are not planning to expand
proportionally to the increase of
applicants, and will subsequently
be forced to turn down more people
than ever.
Political Science Prof. Hanes
Walton Jr. said in an e-mail inter-
view that he expects students will
continue to respond positively to
Obama's call to service.
"The call to service held when
John Kennedy set up the Peace
Corps and when President Clinton
created the national service call,"
he said.
He added that history will likely
show it to be successful for Presi-
dent Obama as well.
meet before Washtenaw County
Circuit Court Judge David Swartz
to determine the status of the case.
Shea said he does not believe a
plea bargain will be offered and
that the case will go to trial.
"Itseemsto me that each side has
a point of view that is pretty incon-
sistent with the other," he said. "And
that typically breeds trials."

the michigan daily

WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
HOUSES want to sell your student www.cashtospend.com
rental house (248) 626-0614.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
NORTB CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. +/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992. telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520 PLANNED PARENTHOOD AFFL-
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet IATES of Michigan (PPAM) is look-
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus ing for a motivated indiv. for P/T posi-
to7 BEDROOM i basein Lansing. Responsibilities
73 ateDr OOM2Kice, ah intl. donor gift recording and acknowl-
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath- edgment, database mgmt., and general
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-1919 office support. High school degree,
Oldtownrealtynet database exp. and attention to detail are
7 BEDROOMS req. Send cover letter and resume to:
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking. Planned Parenthood, Human Resources
Pall Lease. 734-663-,9B9. - Dept. FA, P.O. Box 3673, Ann Ar-
Oldtownrealty.net - bor, 48106; fax (734) 973-0595; or
O__ d__ wnrea__ty__et ___ email recruiter@ppmchoice.org EOE.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. U OP M Student Lab Assistant Age-
Call today 741-9657. ing Research. Mouse husbandry and
data collection. Holiday and weekend
availability needed. 10-15 hr/wk.
services Contact Maggie 936-2164.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE, Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp. Gain business experience and build
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.

SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
s ummer e O
09, ym

Don't wantto be
a Bummer in the Summer?

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 -6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
tiICets & trve
1 00
SPRING BREAK IS better BY THE
SEA! Why? Rooms right on Panama
City Beach from per $49* night,
rooms across the street for even less,
1,100 feet of sugar-white beach,
heated gulf-front pools and
whirlpools, Spring Break specials at
our beachfront bar and grill, loca-
tions minutes from Spring Break hot
spots and the Pier Park shopping
and entertainment complex plus
more. Learn about our VIP contest
and all the Spring Break mayhem at
bythesearesorts.com. Call 888-627-
0625 to claim your room now! *Rate
based on double occupancy and does
not include tax.


FIND A JOB
Check out the great
opportunities available uu the
Summer Employment Page.
Published in
The Michigan Daily on Feb 12

I!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
nude, semi-nude photography. No expe-
rience, Flexible hours, great pay. Must
be 18. For interview call 734-678-4181.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, Mt. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of H pee-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9 9
1 7 6
4 7
9 4 2
2 51 7


For Friday, Feb. 6, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Because this is the year that friends
and groups will help you, be more open
to this possibility. You have to shift gears
to make the most of this.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
It's important to realize that this is the
year you can really make a name for
yourself. Others will think they're dis-
covering what you do for the first time!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
This is a marvelous year for educa-
tional opportunities, travel, publishing
and explorig other cultures and differ-
ent countries. Expect new adventures!
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
Be open to the generosity of others.
Throughout 2009, you can benefit from
the wealth of others.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Partnerships are going to improve
beautifully this year. You will appreciate
the close friends and partners who are in
your life now.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You can improve your job or your atti-
tude this year, or you'll get a better job.
It might happen early or late in 2009.
But it will happen.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Plan on taking a vacation this year. If
you work in the arts or the entertainment
world, things will improve. This is a
great year for relating to children.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)

Everything to do with home, family,
real estate and your domestic situation
will improve this year. Thank the Lord!
Your joy in family relationships will def-
initely he rewarding.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Something is going to make you feel
unusually optimistic this year. Because
you will easily generate the power of
positive thinking,it's going to be a better
year for you.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Now you can expect your earnings to
increase. This boost to your income
might conicearly in 2009 or late in the
year. (But it wilt come.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
For the first time in 12 years, a strong
influence of good fortune and luck is in
your sign. You probably already can feel
this, because you're expecting more for
yourself, aren't you?
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
This year, many of you will get more
in touch with your spiritual side, as well
as your compassion for others, espe-
cially loved ones. You want to help those
in need this year if you can.
YOU BORN TODAY You have an
easygoing style that makes people
respond to you with respect and affec-
tion. You're knowledgeable and socially
smooth. You're also an idealist who
wants to make the world a better dlace.
Because of this, many of you are
extremely popular and well liked. This
year is a turning point for some of you.
It's a whole new world.Open any doorl
Birthdate of Eric Partridge, lexicogra-
pher; Kathy Najimy, actress; Bob
Marley singer/songwriter.

PROPOSAL
From Page 1A
would notice changes in funding.
Specifically, Weiss said the
School of Education, College of
Engineering, College of Literature,
Science and Arts, School of Natural
Resources and Environment and
the Taubman College of Architec-
ture and Urban Planning would
experience noticeable changes in
funding.
During the presentation, SACUA
member Gina Poe, an associate pro-
fessor of anesthesiology, expressed
concern over how the proposal
would affect students who need to
take a semester or more away for
classes from personal reasons.
SIGNING DAY
From Page 1A
freshman) Tate (Forcier), who took
command every game he played
in. That's the thing that excites us
about Tate and Denard. Those are
guys who, when you watch their
game film, they kind of took charge
and controlled things."
Much of the day's attention cen-
tered on the quarterback position,
where Michigan signed two qual-
ity dual-threat options, Forcier and
Robinson. Rodriguez said that both
quarterbacks are in the running
to compete with redshirt sopho-
more Steven Threet and redshirt
junior Nick Sheridan for the start-
ing spot. Rodriguez needed to pick
up signal-callers that fit his fast-
paced offense - and he apparently
did that in Forcier (rated by Rivals.
com as the most accurate passer in
the nation) and Robinson, who gar-
nered additional recruitment atten-
tion from Rodriguez when former
quarterback commit Shavodrick
Beaver backed out.
"We got two of the best ones we
could possibly ask for," Michigan
quarterbacks coach Rod Smith
said. "You know, we had one bow
out at the end there and we weren't
too happy about that, but we moved
on and probably got a better one in
Denard."

"I think that anyone whois chal-
lenged, who is demanded by their
community, for whatever reason,
and needstostop - and I know a lot
of people like this - would not be
able to come back under this Rack-
ham policy," she said.
No formal policy currently exists
for personal leaves of absence. If
the continuous enrollment require-
ment is implemented, students
would be allowed to take "a one-
term personal leave of absence for
any reason one time during their
Ph.D. studies," according to Rack-
ham's website.
The Rackham Executive Board
approved the policy in December,
but the policy will not be imple-
mented until at least the fall semes-
ter of 2010.
Forcier, who's already on cam-
pus, appears to have the upper hand
on Robinson because he will par-
ticipate in the 15 spring practices in
March, and has an extra semester
to adjust to college before summer
workouts start in the spring.
But while everyone else was
preoccupied with the competition
between the two young, quarter-
backs, the easygoing Forcier wasn't
too worried about it.
"I just -know (Robinson's) last
name - I don't know anything
about him," Forcier said. "My mom
was the one that actually said, 'Oh,
you've got competition coming.' Oh,
you know, I don't care."
Forcier threw for 3,424 yards and
ran for another 783, with 35 touch-
downs his senior year. Robinson
compiled 1,809 passing yards, 462
rushing yards and 23 touchdowns.
Though he compiled an impres-
sive class, Rodriguez did voice
some concerns with recruiting as a
whole. After last year's 3-9 record,
he said the Michigan coaches ran
into "more negative recruitingthan
there's ever been," a discouraging
reality for the coach.
"I don't think you have-to do that
to get a guy," Rodriguez said. "I tell
our coaches, 'you talk about the
good things we have to offer. ... If
you have to negative recruit to get
him, then we're probably recruiting
the wrong guy."

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improving your resume
Maisgacommission-basedsalary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please emaildailyclassified mait.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don'tLetThisGreat
Opportunity Pass You By!

WANT TO DESIGN
FLASH GRAPHICS
FOR THE DAILY?

C0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc

E-mail graca@michigandaily.com.

11


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Thursday, February 5, 2009

HOW TO GIVE YOUR
W WEEK A HAPPY ENDING


There's a difference between communicating ideas and experiencing them. It's the
difference between memorizing a foreign language and thinking in one. Between
studying ruins and excavating them. Between analyzing dreams and living them. The
difference is huge. And it's the very essence of the University of Chicago Summer
Session. Where students are engaged at every level-intellectually, socially, personally,
and professionally. Where you can benefit from the value of taking university courses
in an accelerated, intensive format. Join us this summer for an extraordinary learning
experience at the academic home to 82 Nobel laureates and the new U.S. President.
FOR STUDENTS IN HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE, AND BEYOND.
JUNE 22-AUGUST 28, 2009
3, 4, 5, 6, AND 9-WEEK SESSIONS

For more information, visit
summer.uchicago.edu/um
or call773/702-6033

- THE UNIVERSITY OF
S CHICAGO
Summer Session'09

I

I

I

1Vi W

I

U t

II

U



I


c
.
'
t
N ,

 .
. _y
..
t i

The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, February 5, 2009

weekend
essentials
Feb. 5 to Feb. 8
MUSIC
Noble Beast, Andrew
Bird's latest effort, is an
absolute essential for
surviving the cabin fever
that unfailingly consumes
Michigan winters. Bird
gets so far inside his own
head on this album that
he'll drag listeners out of
their own. It's enough to
distract even the most
stressed of students. So
bring out the Bose, turn
on the Bird and forget
that it's February; the
friendly combination of
violin, guitar and whimsi-
cal vocals is a perfect
blanket for the cold.
CONCERT
There are only a few
chances to experience
a new artist when that
person is commonplace
- pretty soon, you're
just another fan from
the multitude. Tenor
Laurence Brownlee's
visit this weekend is one
of those rare chances.
He has been called "the
most impressive addition
to the American tenor
roster in many years"
by the San Francisco
Chronicle, and his con-
cert at Hill this Saturday
should be appropriately
memorable. 8 p.m. Tick-
ets starting at $10.

the can't-miss films of last year. So without further ado, who wants to see a magic trick?

1. "THE DARK KNIGHT"
Hindsight's a valuable thing, and there's a reason we all saw this 11 times. So
much has been said about Christopher Nolan's revisionist spectacle, but in short,
"The Dark Knight" is perfect. Perfect in its mix of art and entertainment; perfect
in its mass appeal and longevity. An operatic costume tragedy, it's a money-mak-
er with guts and brains. It was easily the greatest film experience of 2008. Forget
the Oscars. In time, this film will receive the honors it really deserves.
BLAKE GOBLE

To quote Harvey Milk himself, "You gotta give 'em hope" - and this film cer-
tainly takes that to heart. An absorbing look into the life of openly gay politician
Harvey Milk, "Milk" is the perfect mix of humor, inspiration and strength. In
the center of it all is the wonderfully human performance by Sean Penn. Years
from now, audiences will still feel this film's poignant message of tolerance and,
yes, hope.
SHERI JANKELOVITZ

ONLINE
Those with access to a
television or computer
know that Christian Bale
recently went apeshit -
yet again - on the set of
"Terminator Salvation."
What's different this time
around, though, is that
his rampage has been
made into ... a song. It's
called "Bale Out" and
is composed by L.A.
mixologist RevoLucian.
Sure, it won't win any
Grammys, but it's well
worth two minutes and
48 seconds of your time.
Available on MySpace.

5. "THE CURIOUS CASE
OF BENJAMIN BUTTON"

Telling the story of a young man from the slums and his quest to win
"Who Wants to be a Millionaire," "Slumdog Millionaire" is sometimes a
human drama, other times a romance and at all times completely magical. It
beautifully details pain, suffering and, above all, the strength of the human
spirit. A film that will leave you wanting to dance out of the theater, "Slum-
dog" is without a doubt one of the best films of the year. And that's the final
answer.
SHERI JANKELOVITZ

It speaks to the quality of the film when its 166-minute running time seems to
just fly by. "Benjamin Button" combines stunning CGI effects, solid acting and
an intriguing fantasy storyato create one ofthis year's best-produced films. While
it's Pitt's film to carry, a strong supporting cast, including Taraji P. Henson as
Button's adoptive mother, keeps the audience engaged and the film enchanting.
ANNIE LEVENE

3. "WALL-E"

The term "movie magic" has been abducted by Disney (a subsidiary of Buy n
Large) as a corporate catchphrase. So it's playing into the palm of their Mickey
Mouse hand to declare this Pixar's sci-fi robot romance as such. Yet what other
possible response could one have to seeing the world's most adorable trash com-
pactor escape a demolished Earth, sail into the outer reaches of the galaxy on
the back of a spaceship that holds his true love and outstretch his arm to brush
Saturn's rings? Very well: Magical it is.
ANDREW LAPIN

6. "GRAN TORINO"
Like "The Searchers" for 2008, Clint Eastwood handed in his most aware
and oddly affable performance with this contemporary "mid-western." Seldom
has an old curmudgeon been this likeable. A morality tale about traditional
values fighting with progressive redemption, Eastwood puts everything he
has learned over the course of his career into this film. It may be his last per-
formance, and if that's true, he has made his departure even harder with this
movie. A crowd-pleaser with a message, as long as you stay off his lawn.
BLAKE GOBLE

MOVIES
Guy Ritchie's "RockN-
Rolla" came and went
in theaters last fall with
barely a blip on the radar.
Now that it's on DVD,
fans of high-octane heist
flicks can finally see what
they've been missing. The
coolness of the cast is off
the charts: Gerard Butler
as a thug named One
Two, Thandie Newton
as the smokin' hot babe
Stella and Tom Wilkenson
as a snarling, scenery-
chewing crime overlord.
If you liked "Snatch,"
then snatch this one up.

See BEST FILMS 2008, Page 4B

r


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily co

2B - Thursday, February 5, 2009
C ALENDAR
The Daily Arts guide to
upcoming events in Ann Arbor
and the surrounding area.
Today 2.5.09
Acoustic Musical Poetry: Laz
& Friends
12 p.m.
At the University Hospital, Main Lobby,
Floor1
Free
Penny W. Stamps Lecture:
Jacques Fresco
5 p.m.
At the Michigan Theater
Free
Guggenheim Grotto
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$13.50
Tomorrow 2.6.09
Imagining the Universe Exhi-
bition Reception
6 p.m.
At A&D Slusser Gallery
Free
Symphony Band
8 p.m.
At Hill Auditorium
Free
Saturday 2.7.09
Korean Film Series: Empress
Chung
2 p~m.
At the Michigan Theatre
Free
Yiddish Cup
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$20
Sunday 2.8.09
Faculty Recital: Jeffrey
Lyman, bassoon and Donald
Sinta, saxophone
8 p.m.
At E.. Moore Building, Britton Recital Hall
Free
Please send all press releases
and event information to
arts@michigandaily.com.


Christian Bale kisses his mother with
that mouth.
2:1
Drunk kids still end up at Red Hot Lovers
on weekends.
10:1

=:
, , f .
r ,
{. -
, . ;
. , ,

The Michigan Student Assembly ends
world hunger, erases poverty, solves the
economic crisis and brings about world
peace. But textbooks are still expensive.
8,000:1

High five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five
answers to a curious question.
Jonathang Ewelnt
What are the five best alien-themed
works, in five different genres?
FILM: "The Abyss" (leap). An extraterrestrial movie that just happens to
take plate at the bottom of the ocean. It's one part "2001" and one part "glue
Planet." Setting the movie on Earth helps develop an environmental theme,
which isn'ttypical for alien films. There's some heavy-handed moraizing at the
end, but it doesn't detratt. Just remember: psychos with nuclear weeapons, bad;
water tentacles, awesome.
NONFICTION: "Interpretations of Dreams" by Sigmund Freud (58991). An
alien intelligence lives inside you and tries to communicate by sending you cryp-
tic messages in your dreams. What could possibly make that more interesting?
How about it just might be true?
MUSIC: David Bowie - The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders
from Mare (1972). A concept album about a philanthropic alien glamn-rocker who
comes to Earth to save the world only to get distracted by sex and drugs. To
think this album emerged only eight years after the Beatles' first appearance on
Ed Sullivan is really mind-blowing.
TV: "Star Trek: Voyager" (Season 4, 1997). I've been a "Star Trek" fan for
years, sotI couldn't in good conscience keep the entire franchise off the hast. But
it was difficult to choose just one part. I always liked the premise of "Voyager,"
but I never thought the series lived up to its promise until the fourth season.
There, Janeway's choice to ally herself with one enemy (the Borg) to defeat
another (Species 8472) really captures the difficulty of political double binds.
FICTION: "Tlfin, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius" by Jorge Lois Borges. In this short
story, another (alien) world not only intrudes on this one but begins completely
to take over. It's a post-modern fable about conspiracies, secret societies and a
total, miraculous transformation of reality - but it's also a story that helped get
me hooked on literature.

m

ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK

TH-IN ICE tFRSITEI2

Always wanted to bea speed skater but
you were too intimidated by Apolo Ohno?
Maybe you should settle for this. You play
as a young skater on a rink plagued by all
kinds of monsters. Skate a circle around
one and it'll fall into a puddle of frozen
water. Sink them all before they sap your
health to move on to the next level full of
crazier monsters and obstacles.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/be7qqg

The frozen mayhem continues as our
hero faces a mountainous challenge.
With only a grappling hook, you must
scale cliffs while collecting ice cream
and defeating monsters along the way.
With some decent puzzles and fun
swinging, this is an insanely addictive
game. While it never gets particularly
challenging, it's still a lot of fun.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/9fdpr7






Car Repair
" C ooPetitiwe Prices
" Fip.GE ra4 baideto CV?4
"*F WuU OWIed - 30 ea rs

WANT TO DESIGN FLASH TRAI LER REV
G.I. JOE: RISE OF THE
GRAPHICS FOR THE DAILY?

E-MAIL GRACA@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Holy crap! Snake Eyes just totallyju
was spinning in the air! And look at the
glasses! Swanky!
Yep, "G.I. Joe: Rise of the Cobra" is one
spots. It's only a 30-second clip, and all of
in, including everything from bombs and
No, "G.I. Joe" isn't "War and Peace," butt
we canjust find our old Joe figuresbefor

I

S U -KU

Not-for-Profit
Career Expo
Tuesday, February 10th, 2009
2-6 pm at The Michigan Union
" Explore not-for-profit career paths
" Discuss internship and full-time positions
" Learn about volunteer opportunities
" Discover ways to stay involved in
community service
" Visit our website for a list of organizations
scheduled to attend
(www.careercenter.umich.edu) .

Space Available Now!
STUDENT CO-OP
HOUSING
Community Living for
University Students
Now Signing Contracts:
Fall/Winter 2009/10
$535/month*
(Spring/Summer Discounts Available)
*Includes utilities, laundry, parking, social
activities and all the food you can eat!
Use this ad to getoa free dinoner at one of
our houses! For more Information call:
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414

I

I

For more informnation contact us at:
3200 SAB . (734)764-7460 www.carcercenteT.umich.edu

ArborVitae Women's Center
We provide the following services FREE of charge:
Pregnancy testing
Ultrasounds
Women's health and abortion info
Material support and referrals
Spiritual support
ArborVita
Day and Evening Appointments Available
Locmted at 625 E. Libertv St: Below Starbucks at State & Libertv

I

I

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 5, 2009 - 3B

The art of
home brewing

nn Arbor is home to a
large foodie popula-
tion, so it shouldn't
be a surprise that students
are brewing
their own
beer. These
students
share a sub-
tle passion
for the art of
brewery as '
well as for its KARA
final prod- MORRIS
uct. Just ask
around - you've probably met
a closet brewer.
} The beauty of home brew-
ing is that you can adjust the
ingredients - and alcohol
content - to your tastes. Even
on a bad day, your home brew
will likely be better and less
expensive than anything you'd
find at Campus Corner. The
delicate process, which often
involves a simmering concoc-
tion of obscure ingredients and
a couple good friends, is just a
cauldron away from Macbeth's
witches' brew.
A second pleasure of home
brewing is developing a keen
understanding and appre-
ciation of where your drink
actually comes from. This
was immediately apparent
when I met LSA junior James
Graessle. While his roommate
prepared a loaf of honey wheat
bread, James explained how he
put cherry concentrate in his
latest concoction.
Commenting on his previ-
ous batch, he mentions, "I like
it, it's good beer ... to go out
and buy nice beer, it's a lot of
money." He calculates that this
batch, which yielded about two
cases of "good beer," only cost
about $30.
James brews with two of his
roommates and mentions that
they taught themselves to brew
using online resources. He uses
malt extract, which is quicker
than traditional all-grain
"mash" brewing. In this process,
the final brew must sit in the
dark for a week before adding
sugar, bottling it and waiting
about two to six more weeks.
For those interested in
brewing, he has three key rec-
ommendations: regulate the
temperature closely, sterilize
carefully and avoid exposure
to light during fermenta-
tion. James recommends Ann
Arbor's Beer Depot and men-
tions that brewers will need a
kitchen and some room - or
at least a closet - to brew and
ferment beer.
Home brewing is also an
excellent means of develop-
ing your palate. Fodie Oren
Brandvain, LSA junior, also
brews with his roommates. He
enjoys it because of the beer's
quality and comments that
he has developed a taste for
better brews as a result. Oren
brews by the "all-grain" brew-
ing process, which combines
steeped grains, "the mash,"
hops and yeast after cooling.
The mixture is fermented for
two weeks in a carboy before
adding sugar and bottling for
seven to 10 more days.
Oren's advises any aspiring
brewer who wants to refine
his or her palate to keep a very
detailed journal and record

minutiae like temperature
readings throughout the
process. That way they can
account for different tastes
between batches. He also
stressed the importance of san-
itation: "If it's not completely
sanitized, it might taste sour."
If the timing and strict tem-
perature regulation involved in
beer brewing are too daunting,
there are a few other options
for those interested in knocking
back a homemade brew. In addi-
tion to brewing beer, Juan Leon,
Music, Theatre & Dance junior,
makes his own hard cider.
Juan's enthusiasm for brew-
ing was immediately apparent
when he gave me a tour of his
brewing stations. Beside fer-
menting cider, Juan also makes
ginger beer; both were capped
with a carboy bung. A third
kind of brew, strawberry wheat
lager, rested in the cool, dark
basement.
Unlike beer, cider doesn't
need to be heated during
brewing. After prepping, Juan
introduces his own yeast from
U-Brew in Ypsilanti, which
he recommends because the
staffers are very helpful and
knowledgeable about the beer-
brewing process. He has tried
both champagng and ale yeast,

and he recommends cham-
pagne yeast for hard cider.
Juan stores the cider in a cov-
ered carboy at room tempera-
ture for two to three weeks
before bottling.
With three diversified drinks
in the making, Juan demon-
strates his commitment to
curiosity and the art of brewery.
For those who are interested
in brewing beer or hard cider,
Juan recommends that students
buy a kit to get started on a
project of their own.
"Really," he said, "it's all
about experimenting.
Few can match the excite-
ment of first-year Rackham
student Tim Friese as he
explains his mead-brewing
process. Mead, as Tim
explains, is a 20-40 proof
honey wine. He started brew-
ing the drink several years
ago because the only mead
he could find was watery and
expensive.
Brewing mead requires a
few more ingredients than
cider, but it uses a very simi-
lar process. Tim uses Bryan
Acton and Peter Duncan's
book "Making Mead" as a
guide. He pours gently heated
honey and water into a 6.5 gal-
lon carboy before adding the
remaining ingredients, which
include citric acid, tannins and
champagne yeast. In a slightly
arduous process, Tim shakes
the large bottle before filling it
to the top with water and let-
ting it ferment for two to three
months.
Revealing his love for the
art of brewery, Tim described
how he experiments by adding
fruit like lemons or peach con-
centrate. The addition of the
peach juice was his most recent
success. He has also tried add-
ing different types of honey,
like clever and wildflower
varieties. Tim does not, how-
ever, recommend eucalyptus
Crafting the
ideal draught.
tree honey, saying that his last
eucalyptus brew "smelled like
dirty socks - but actually had
the most character."
Tim zealously encourages
anyone who's interested in
brewing to at least try it. He
stresses the importance of
documenting the process and
labeling the carboys so it's easi-
er to see how different ingredi-
ents affect the final brew.
Apart from a love of brewing
and the brew itself, the most
common theme I found during
my home-brewed inquisitions
was the sharing of the spoils.
So, if you've been craving a
good brew at a pauper's price,
grab a few good friends and
take a trip to The Beer Depot.
Morris is looking for the right
hops. To donate your stash, e-mail
her at karamomoaumich.edu.

Mary E. Cooley, Roy W. Cowden and students reading in the original Hopwood Roor in the 1

Honoring progressive writing

For 78 years, the Hopwood
Awards have been cultivating
literary culture in Ann Arbor
By PRIYA BALI
Daily Arts Writer
By Tuesday at noon, piles of writing submis-
sions will have formed in 1176 Angell Hall, better
known as the Hopwood Room. For the 78th year
in a row, selected works of poetry, fiction, nonfic-
tion and screenplays will be awarded all in the
name of Avery and Jule Hopwood.
The Hopwood Awards is widely considered
among the largest and most prestigious writing
contests in the country. Avery Hopwood, a play-
wright and University alum from 1905, wrote in
his will that the University should use one fifth of
his estate toward a writing contest that held the
Hopwood name.
Although he became one of the most popular
playwrights on Broadway in the early 20th centu-
ry, he was troubled by the possibilitythat his writ-
ing would never be remembered as extraordinary.
He decided to leave his unfulfilled dreams up to
future writers instead, calling the competition
a challenge that should exemplify "the new, the
unusual and the radical." Since 1931, Hopwood's
goal of encouraging creative expression in young
writers has been vividly active at the University.
"To the degree that Ann Arbor is a town cel-
ebrated for its authors, this is part of that. The
bookstore culture, reading culture and the writ-
ing community - all are importantly sustained
by +h holen erievnce of t henwoosm ai d

Prof. Nicholas Delbanco, director of the Hopwood
Program for over 20 years.
"We're inhabiting a very old space and honor-
ing a long-established tradition," he said.
In addition to the Undergraduate and Graduate
Hopwood Awards, the Hopwood Program admin-
isters 13 other writing contests, including the
Arthur Miller Award and the Kasdan Scholarship
in Creative Writing, which were named after two
renowned recipients. Other well-known winners
include Robert Hayden, Frank O'Hara and Uni-
versity Creative Writing Prof. Laura Kasischke.
Submissions have continued to grow since the
program's inception in 193L And although only a
few of these submissions are eventually bestowed
with awards, the program has certainly accom-
plished what Hopwood wished it: encouraging
student writing.
After submissions have been read by a pre-
liminary set of judges, chosen works are sent to
national judges who are not associated with the
University. All submissions are sent in anony-
mously, making the contest as close to objective
as possible.
"Any artistic contest is so much shaped by
elements that are outside the work itself, includ-
ing the subjectivity of the reader and simply the
quality of perception of the reader," said Keith
Taylor, a creative writing lecturer in the Depart-
ment of English and former judge of the Hopwood
Awards. "Quality does find a way to get to the top
sooner or later but you can't be absolutely sure of
the process."
Writing in and of itself can be immensely dif-
ficult, but crafting one's work for a contest can
feel even more daunting. Still, there's something
more to be said of winninga contest like the Hop-
woods.
"I always thought
they were very vindicat-
ing - winning an award
makes all those nights
alone in your room with
paper and a pen worth
it," said Beenish Ahmed,
RC Creative Writing
senior and winner ofsev-
eral Hopwood Awards.
"The most remarkable
thing about the writing
scene in Ann Arbor is
that there is one."
"A writer will never
be homeless here," she
said.
One doesn't need to
look far to realize that
encouragement of stu-

dent writing goes beyond the monetary value of
these awards. A campus saturated by interest in
the arts, the University - and, moreover, Ann
Arbor - is made up of a supportive community
that understands the extent to which writing
reaches a larger audience.
"I think what I learned in Ann Arbor was how
to seek out a second set of eyes and ears when I
need them and how to be my own best editor,"said
Matthew Hittinger, a 2004 MFA graduate who
now lives and works in New York City. "I had an
outlet to share my work and the floodgates opened
when I got there." Hittinger was the recipient of a
Hopwood Award for Poetry and the Helen S. and
John Wagner Prize in 2004.
Student-run literary publications like Xylem,
the Oleander Review and Interrobang Literary
Magazine, along with poetry and fiction read-
ings sponsored by the Hopwood Program and the
MFA Program, are only a few examples ofhow the
power of the written word can't help but resonate
throughout this arts-hungry college town.
"Only in Ann Arbor would you have two
readings going on in the same night," Hitting-
er said. And he's right. When he gave a poetry
reading at Shaman Drum in November from
his book "Pear Slip" (winner of the 2006 Spire
Press Chapbook Award), another reading was
being given at Crazy Wisdom, a local bookstore
on Main Street.
Although poetry has remained grounded in its
own subculture, its relevance is undeniably pres-
ent inAnn Arbor. The city's abilityto both encom-
pass the nation's largest writing contest and
become the backdrop against which close-knit
groups of writers and readings flourish make such
relevance possible. This is the stuff Ann Arbor's
rare and expansive literary culture is made of.
The same can be said of the Ann Arbor Arthur
Miller once knew.
Delbanco has inserted a portion of the play-
wright's autobiography in the introduction to his
book on the Hopwood Awards: "Outside, Ann
Arbor was empty, still in the spell of spring vaca-
tion ... I ran up to the'deserted center of town,
across the Law Quadrangle and down North Uni-
versity, my head in the stars ... The magical force
of making marks on a piece of paper and reaching
into another human being, making him see what I
had seen and feel my feelings - I had made a new
shadow on the earth."
Like so many others, this is a place where
Miller's realization of his life as a writer was first
hatched and the place where his dreams were
validated. It is also, remarkably, the same place
where a similar dream was ripened for writers
like Ahmed and Hittinger, and now, for manyof
those who will submit their work Tuesday.



k


4B - Thursday, February 5, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, February 5, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

E A.T 'GRAND HOTEL' (1932)
'Grand' entertainment

This year's Super Bowl ads:
the good, the bad and the weird

By BLAKE GOBLE ill clerk (Lionel Barrymore, "Isn't pre-1970, it's scary to think that
Daily Arts Writer Life Wonderful"), a wicked stenog- maybe only the Library of Congress
rapher (Joan Crawford, "The Best watches old movies. How many of
In honor of the Academy Awards, of Everything") and an unscrupu- students have honestly sat through
it's high time we remind ourselves of lous tycoon (Wallace Beery, "The "Gone With the Wind"?
thegreatergoodthattheawardshave Champ"). Don't worry if the per- Well, "Grand Hotel" would be a
contributed to. Sure, the broadcasts formers sound archaic; they were good place to start connecting with
are too long and the winners receive huge in 1932. Their paths cross in a old-fashioned Hollywood. Made in
equal parts praise and scrutiny, but superbly linked series of incidents: 1932, the pacing is quick, the act-
that doesn't mean the awards matter romantic trysts, big business deals, ing is eloquent and the stories are
anyless than they used to. actually interesting.It's pure theat-
The Oscars have made mar- ricality. But "Hotel" lasted thanks
quee decisions both forgotten and w to its simplicity, and the star power
remembered. Lord knows "The A W iner rom doesn't hurt either. This is grand,
Greatest Show on Earth" was an the g ldn1 geof old Hollywood captured on film.
awful film. Butforeverynoted land- t olden age The film won Best Picture at the
mark like "All Quiet on the West- Hollywood Oscars for the 1931/1932 awards cer-
ern Front" and "It Happened One H wemony (it wasn't on a rigid sched-
Night," there's an equally wonderful ule back then), and oddly enough it
film that goes by the wayside in the e was competing against seven other
popular consciousness. films. It was the only award "Hotel"
"Grand Hotel" was the fifth film won, but it was much deserved. At
to win Best Picture, and it's one of personal journeys and life-changing the time, only 12 awards were given
the unfortunately ignored ones. incidents. ("Titanic" alone won 11 and was
A cavalcade of Hollywood's earli- Now, if that sounds like a typical nominated for 14 in 1998) and most
est super celebrities, simple studio melodrama, then that's because it is. categories had only three nominees.
filmmaking and all-around enter- The movie has a super cast, which Yes, the Oscars were still trying to
taining drama, it's atruly great film, more than makes up for its broad find their identity. But that doesn't
and a benchmark for the Academy's stories. "Grand Hotel" was like the make this any less valid of a film.
history. Oh, and best of all, it's easier original "Ocean's Eleven" for its star See it for its old studio marksman-
to watch than you might think. power and like "Gosford Park" for ship and clean craft. See it to under-
"Grand Hotel" is a series of con- its dense structure and stories. stand what Oscar-baiting looked
nected stories at the eponymous Most importantly, the film holds like in the beginning. See it to hear
Berlin Inn, where a ballerina (Greta up better today than it should. With Greta Garbo utter her famous line: "I
Garbo, "Ninotchka"), a baron (John a general reluctance among young- vant to be alone!" See "Grand Hotel"
Barrymore, "Dinner At Eight"), an er audiences to watch anything because it is just a great movie.

By DAILY TV/NEW
MEDIA STAFF
This year's Superbowl com-
mercials had a bizarre penchant
for nostalgia, animals and unwar-
ranted violence. They included at
least three ads doing the senti-
mental generation hop (perhaps
in desperate attempts to prove
their staying power in an economy
that doesn't discriminate), Bud-
weiser and Pedigree attempting
to increase the visibility of horses
in the media and Doritos, Audi
and Bud Light favoring slapstick
aggression ending in death or
testicular hindrance. Originality
wasn't exactly abundant. There
were, however, some stand-outs.
And that's where we, your friend-
ly Daily TV staff, will weigh in.
CONAN GOES A BIT TOO FAR
If you've ever wondered about
a commercial's ability to be both
terrifyingly awkward and hilari-
ously self-referential, wonder no
more. Bud Light's spot on meta-
satire has now officially and
permanently burned its brand,
along with some uncomfort-
able images, into the malleable
minds of mainstream America.
The only thing more disturbing

than Conan O'Brien crawling
around in a mesh top while hiss-
ing was when Bridgestone's
Potato Head commercial set the
feminist movement back 30 years.
RACHEL HANDLER
HULU MAKES ITS PRESENCE
FELT
Super Bowl ads tend to run
the gamut from ordinary to plain
weird, and online television
hub Hulu's one-minute spot fell
solely in the latter column. Fea-
turing Alec Baldwin as an alien
accidentally revealing Hulu's
plans for world domination, it
didn't necessarily make sense,
but if this is what the revolution
looks like, I'm already on board.
ERIC CHIU
THE QUICK LIFE
For those of us bored to tears
by those never-ending 30-second
commercials, Miller High Life
aired the first ever one-second-
long ad during this year's Super
Bowl. It featured a portly beer
deliveryman screaming "HIGH
LIFE!" Maybe Miller was just
pinched for cash and couldn't
afford the $3 million for a regu-
lar-length commercial, but who
knows? Maybe the future of

advertising will be friendlier to
our shortening attention spans.
TOMMY COLEMAN
CARS.COM, DISAPPOINT-
MENT OF THE CENTURY
There was so much potential
here. The ad seemed destined
for greatness when the newborn
congratulated the doctor with a
handshake. And the momentsthat
followed were equally brilliant.
But then, the guy's befuddled
when choosing a car? Come on, it's
a freaking car. Once Americans
everywhere were left hanging by
this underwhelming commercial,
it's hard to say who was more dis-
appointed: them or the Cardinals.
DAVE REAP
THE GOLDEN TOILET
What? Cash4Gold? That
pseudo-company that some-
how convinces people to put
their valuables in the mail? Yes,
Cash4Gold made its Superbowl
debut with MC Hammer and Ed
McMahon listing all the gold
possessions they exchanged for
cash. Even celebrities need some
extra money, but there is no way
McMahon is goingto fit a gold toi-
let in those little Cash4Gold bags.
CAROLYN KLARECKI


BEST FILMS 2008
From Page 1B
7."MAN ON WIRE"
"Man on Wire" covers the
scheming behind the red-headed
Frenchman Philippe Petit's infa-
mous walk between the Twin
Towers. It's funny, endearing and
almost poetic at times. Petit cap-
tured the spirit of the '70s and the
film brings to life the raw emotion
behind his feats.
EMILYBOUDREAU

8. "IN BRUGES"
Yes, the film is charming to the
extreme. But there's more to "In
Bruges" than inducing chortles as
Colin Farrell's supposedly tough
hitman swears and trudges his
way through a fairy tale village.
Death is an ever-present force on
this vacation, and the movie's final
act drives that point home with
striking camera work, potboiler
suspense and the mournful, heart-
ripping usage of The Dubliners'
song "On Raglan Road." As these
characters approach their har-
rowing but justified consequences,
Martin McDonagh's tragicomedy
approaches greatness.
ANDREWLAPIN
9. "IRON MAN"
One of the most energetic mov-
ies of the year, "Iron Man" closely
follows the original comic book
source material with nonstop
action and pure, unadulterated
fun. In a time of complex philo-
sophical/political distractions,
the film is a refreshing change
from the subliminal subtexts that,
characterize so many modern
superhero movies. In the end, the
success of the movie is attributed

to the basics: keen attention to the
story and eye-opening and origi-
nal visual effects.
HANS YADAV

different lights: a proud public
figure and a more flawed private
man. He humanizes Nixon in a
way that is both endearing and
entertaining.
ANNIE LEVENE
11. "TROPIC THUNDER"
Much has been said about Rob-
ert Downey Jr.'s exceptional and
divisive dip into black-face, but
"Tropic Thunder" has some acute
writing (thanks to Justin Theroux
and Ben Stiller, Downey's co-star
and director) that should not go
unappreciated. Beginning with
lewd and crude faux-previews,
"Thunder" is as politically incor-
rect as possible. It adheres to the
no-holds-barred, offend-all-so-
as-to-offend-no-one mantra, but
it succeeds where Howard Stern
and other racy comics fail. "Thun-
der" has the same wit and layering
as the similar comic classic "The
Three Amigos," and that Downey
character is pretty hilarious.
ELIE ZWIEBEL

riveting piece of drama. Writer-
director John Patrick Shanley
elicits remarkably strong perfor-
mances from Meryl Streep, Philip
Seymour Hoffman, Amy Adams
and Viola Davis as'three mem-
bers of the parish faculty and the
mother of a student, respectively.
Having adapted the script from
his own stageplay, Shanley con-
structs an entirely enthralling
character piece that only gains
more strength in its execution on
screen.
NOAHDEAN STAHL
13. "BURN AFTER READING"
It's the Coen brothers at their
most bizarre yet, so of course"it's
hilarious. "Burn After Reading"
stars Brad Pitt, George Clooney
(that's enough right there) and
Frances McDormand. Pitt is a
meathead who believes he has
uncovered FBI secrets, McDor-
mand isa physical trainer who just
wants some plastic surgery and
Clooney keeps a sex machine in
his basement. Through a series of
unusual coincidences, their lives
become entangled in one of the
biggest government misunder-
standings imaginable.
EMILYBOUDREAU

14. "BEYOND OUR KEN"
If you stumble upon this cult
documentary, you'll find yourself
quoting it for a lifetime: But that
shouldn't be the only reason to
see this superb observation of the
Australian cult Kenja, named for
founders Ken Dyers and Jan Ham-
ilton. Half-shocking, half-hilari-
ous, you'll want to transfer energy,
put on aplay and grapple your niece
right after. Seriously, that's all in
there. It's highly obscure, but total-
ly worthwhile. In a good year for
dots, this was the most unique.
BLAKE GOBLE
15. "THE WRESTLER"
If a man is defined by what he
does, whatbecomes ofhimwhenhe
isnolongerneeded?"The Wrestler"
is a beautiful movie that chronicles
the aftermath of a noteworthy pro-
fessional careerand afailedperson-
al life. Mickey Rourke is brilliant as
Randy 'The Ram' Robinson. This is
Rourke's most important andmem-
orable performance to date, and
while the movie is extraordinarily
directed. by Darren Aronofsky, the
spotlight remains firmly fixed on
Mickey Rourke.

10. "FROST/NIXON"
Based on Peter Morgan's stage
play, "Frost/Nixon" is heavy on
talk but never boring. It's a film
that allows younger audiences to
see further into Richard Nixon's
famous Watergate scandal, an
event that ordinarily seems only
flat and historical. Frank Langel-
la, as disgraced President Nixon,
is particularly impressive as he
oortravs his character in two

12. "DOUBT"
As producer
"There is not]
about this mov

Scott Rudin said,
hing postmodern
ie." It is simolv a

I

STILL NOT SATISFIED?

4

For more content check online at
michigandaily.com/section/bside.

I

Adults diagnosed with Fibromyalgia needed
to explore the effect of MILNACIPRAN
on brain activity and cognition
Milnacipran (MLN) is a prescription medication that has recently
been approved by the FDA for fibromyalgia (FM).
This study (IRBMED# HUM 21096) explores various effects of
milnacipran on fibromyalgia patients and the relationship
between this effect and brain patterns during functional magnetic
resonance imaging (IMRI). You may be eligible to participate in
this study, if you:
" are a right-handed adult between the ages of 18-70
and diagnosed with FM for at least 3 months,
" are willing to take milnacipran and a placebo drug
during separate, 5 week intervals
" are willing to undergo brain scans (MRI), memory
tests, and a variety of other research related measures
* do not currently take narcotic medications, sedatives/
tranquilizers or anti-depressants (or are willing/ able to
reduce usage prior to study enrollment)
The study is conducted over approximately 4 months and will
require 9 visits to the Chronic Pain and Fatigue Research Center
(CPFRC), located in Dominos Farms in NE Ann Arbor.
Compensation is provided in (up to 4) interim payments of $500
For more information, contact Ginny at: vleone(&-umich.edu
(734) 998-7110 * (toll free) 1-866-288-0046
Funding for this research study is being provided by
Forest Laboratories, the licensed US distributor of milnacipran

I

I


