Ne IIcINan L0 Ia0II I
.NE .H ND" EDN NET N Ya . ..'..F'EDT*I'.k t .:3;.4,_ k .. mo..fAL FR . .EED,..OM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, February 13, 2009

michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN IDOL

FUNDING HIGHER EDUCATION
Granholm
pitches 3%
funding cut

School of Music, Theatre & Dance sophomore Camila Ballario performs during the finale of the Michigan Idol competition last night in the Michigan League Ballroom.

CONG RESSMAN ON CA MPUS
Dingell to talk health care at'U'
Representative will wants to change that and will make Daily. "We have the best health ers don't have to subsidize healt
his case in a speech about national technology and health science and insurance for their employees, the
discuss his health health care reform at the School of worst and most inadequate meth- can keep their production cost
Public Health Monday. ods of paying for that health care." down. But U.S. automakers hav
plan on Monday Dingell will discuss possible The fact that the United States to charge more per car to cove
health care reform legislation- doesn't rover its citizens- Dingell the cost of nrovidinr health rare to

If passed, the drop
could cost 'U' as
much as $9.8M
By BENJAMIN S. Chase
Daily StaffReporter
Gov. Jennifer Granholm
announced the 2010 state budget
yesterday, confirming fears that
large-scale cuts are in store for
an array of programs, including
a 3-percent reduction in funding
for universities.
The 3-percent cut in university
funding would affect state col-
leges and schools, but would not
impact community colleges.
In a statement yesterday, Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan wrote that
the cut in funding would trans-
late into a $9.8 million decline
in funding for the University of
Michigan's General Fund, from
which a variety of academic pro-
grams receive funding.
Though the University has
asked the state to increase fund-
ing nearly every year, the cash-
strapped state government has
rarely said yes. According to
the University's 2008 Financial
Report, state fundinghas declined
in each year from 2004 to 2008,
except in 2007. The worst of these
years was when the University
was hit with about a 10-percent
reduction in 2004.

Sullivan said in the statement
that such financial problems were
not unexpected and may force
administrators to hold off on
some of the University's plans.
"We anticipate the next several
years will present numerous fis-
cal challenges, and we may have
to delay or rethink some of our
programs and projects," Sullivan
wrote.
However, in interviews yester-
day, Granholm said she was opti-
mistic that the recently passed
federal economic recovery pack-
age would provide the state with
enough funding to maintain the
previous years' funding levels to
public schools and universities.
The 2010 budget includes $500
million in federal funding, but the
state could receive as much as $2
billion in the form of grants and
loans over the next two years.
In a statement released yes-
terday, Cynthia Wilbanks, the
University's vice president for
Government Relations, wrote
that the University of Michigan
plans to work with state officials
to find a solution to its funding
woes.
"We look forward to working
with the governor and legisla-
tors over the next several months
to minimize the negative conse-
quences of what we anticipate
will be another difficult year,"
Wilbanks wrote.
See FUNDING, Page 7

h
y
,ts
ve
er
fin

By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
There are about 45 million
Americans without health insur-
ance. And with the economy shed-
ding jobs by the thousands every
day, that number is growing.
Rep. John Dingell, a Democrat
whose district includes Ann Arbor,

including H.R. 15, the "National
Health Insurance Act" he intro-
duced to provide health insurance
to the entire country. His talk will
also include a discussion of the
effect health care has on the coun-
try's economy.
"This country is going broke on
health insurance," Dingell said in
an interview with The Michigan

UUC11 CLV~ 1L C:L1LI1, llge
said, has weakened the economy.
Dingell said he will compare the
current U.S. program to health care
programs in foreign countries. He
said he specifically plans to discuss
how Japan, an industrialized nation
with a prominent auto industry like
the United States', provides health
coverage for all of its citizens.
Because Japanese automak-

oeCS piv1% g U aret
their employees.
With a national health care pro-
gram, Dingell said the "competitive
hazards would be at an end" for
U.S. automakers.
Adam Benson, Dingell's spokes-
man, said Dingell is pushing for a
national coverage program because
he believes health care "should be a
See DINGELL, Page 7


GOVERNING THE GREEKS
IFC looks into expanded
Sober Monitor training

Planning a safer Valentine's Day
Safe Sex Store will

On
mis
will
The
looking
to soc
redesig
ing Pro
The
bers of

Zce a penalty for the skills necessary to hold safer
parties and handle alcohol-related
Sdeeds, program situations that may arise at parties.
At all fraternity parties a designat-
now be voluntary ed number of brothers is required
to remain sober throughout the
By NICOLE ABER night. IFC president Ari Parritz
Daily StaffReporter said a priority of his will be to have
most first-year members attend the
Interfraternity Council is program so they'll know what to do
to bring a fresh approach when it's their turn to be a sober
al responsibility through a monitor.
ned Sober Monitor Train- Planning for the training pro-
gram. gram, which is a partnership
program will provide mem- between University Health Ser-
the Gr'eek community with vices and the IFC, began in 2007.

Jose Nunez, then the vice president
of social responsibility for IFC,
approached UHS Health Educator
Patrice Flax about creating such
a program, said Mary Jo Desprez,
alcohol policy and community ini-
tiatives program administrator for
University Health Service.
Nunez said the program was
developed as a tool to reduce haz-
ards at social events and, asa result,
to have less fraternities placed on
social probation.
"My focus, throughout my two
terms, was to work collaboratively
See SOBER MONITOR, Page 3

LSA STUDENT GOVER NMENT
Party-free election causes stir

offer free protection
packets for National
Condom Week
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Tomorrow many students'
minds will be busy buying last
minute chocolates and flowers for
that special someone,butifthey're
looking for a different type of gift
for their sweetheart, they might
want to head to the S3 Safe Sex
Store on South University Avenue.
S3 plans on distributing a free
condom and sample lubrication
packet with every purchase at the
store as part of National Condom
Week, which runs from Feb. 14 to
Feb. 21. The event aims to educate
customers about safe sex and con-
dom usage.
"Any national campaign of safer
sex we try to get involved with and
promote as much as possihle," said
Erica Karmeisool, S3 store man-
ager.
In past years, the store received Safe Sex
condoms from its distributors to away wi
hand outcduring the week. But this
year, S3 was contacted directly by ual bra
Durex condoms representatives to each
and partnered with the company Karn
to help promote that brand of con- tizes tl
doms during National Condom like thu
Week. "Th
"We have participated in on the
National Condom Week in the past, reliable
and we spread education about and pr
condom usage and storage as well best cb
as information about the individ- she sai

Claim made that
non-partisan policy
may violate bylaws
By DANIEL STRAUSS
Daily StaffReporter
Last Tuesday, LSA Student Gov-
ernment President Leslie Zaikis,
speaking on behalf of LSA-SG's
executive board, announced that it
had asked the newly formed Michi-
gan Vision Party and the Michigan

Action Party to refrain from run-
ning party candidates in LSA-SG's
upcoming March elections.
But that announcement has come
under some criticism as it may vio-
late LSA-SG's own bylaws.
On Wednesday, former LSA-SG
President Keith Reisinger submit-
ted a letter to the Daily's opinion
section pointing out the possible
contradiction. The full letter is pub-
lished on today's opinion page.
"First, it is a violation of the LSA-
SG Bylaws to not allow students to
come together and form parties

to run in elections and have their
party name appear on the election
ballot," Reisinger wrote in the let-
ter.
Reisinger is referring to Chapter
20, Section 16 of the government's
bylaws. That bylaw states, "Candi-
dates may jointly request in writ-
ing using the Party Name Request
Form to the LSA-SG Election Direc-
tor that a party name be printed
on the ballot along with their own
names. This request must come no
later than the filing deadline for
See LSA-SG, Page 7

Store manager Erica Karmeisool shows off condom kits that will be given
th every purchase during Valentine's Day weekend and the following week.

nds and how they compare
other," Karmeisool said.
meisool said Durex priori-
[he consumer's safety, just
e store.
e store was actually founded
idea of distributing safe and
sexual health information
oducts that we feel are the
hoices for our customers,"
d. "That has always been

the mission of the store. The infor-
mation is equal, if not more impor-
tant, to the products that we sell."
BethAnn Karmeisool, the presi-
dent of BAK Inc., S3's corporate par-
ent, cameupwiththeideaofopening
the store after she volunteered with.
children infected with HIV/AIDS,
mostly due to HIV-infected procre-
ating through unprotected sex.
See CONDOMS, Page 7


WEATHER - HI: 32
TOMORROW LO 23

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Why the Daily covered its own financial
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDA

INDEX N EW S ........................... ........2 A RTS . ....S................... .....:5
Is Vol.CXIX, No. 94 SUDDKU. . ................3 CLASSIFIEDS. ............ 6
ILYCOM ©29TheMichiganDaily OPINION... ....4 SPORTS................................ 8


E

-Friday, February 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandailycom
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandailycom bugli@michigandailycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsrnnn office hours;Sun.-Thurs.11a.m. - 2a.m.
News Tips news@nhchigaedaity.con
Cnrrectinns correctons@michigandaily.con
leters tothe Editor tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Ars ectinartspage@nichigandaily.com
tdilnrial Page opinion@michigansdaily.com

Sports Sectin
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

sporta@michigandaity.com
display@michigandaily.con
claaified@michigandaily.com
otineads@michigandaity.con

LEFTI Nas pertorms at the Eastern Michigan University C.onvocation Center
during a concert sponsored by Social Stodyz last Friday night. (CLIFREyED- MORE ONLINE
Cf/Daily) TOP Egineering senior Chris MWhich demonstrates an exyeri- Fonmote pholt ofithe week,
meet Toesday during this year's FUNgineering Festival on North Campos. go to micigandaily.cym.
(JED MOCH/Daily)

CRIME NOTES
Car broken into Marbles break
at Pierpont windows

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Pierprmt Comtmonss
yarkinsg circle
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9 p.m.
WHAT: Approximotely $1,550
worth cf electronaics, includ-
ing a laptop, iPod, cell photne
anad digital camcra were stolen
trcom: an utnlocked vehicle, Uni-
versity Police reported.
Classroom door
reported burned
WHERE: 5th floor of Angell
Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
1:35 .1m.
WHAT: A small teardrop-
shaped horn was reported on
the lower part of a door, Uni-
versity Police reported. Tlhe
incidenat occurred between Feb.
t and Fch. 1t. Police have nos
suspects.

WHERE: Rackham Graduate
School
WHEN: Wednesday at about
2:35 p.m.
WHAT: Two window panes at
the Rackham Graduate School
were brokeo, University Police
reported. It appears marbles
were throwo through them,
causing $250 in damage. Police
have no suspects.
West Quad fire
extinguishers
stolen
WHERE: West Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Thursday at about 1:15
WHAT: Two fire extinguish-
ecu were reported stolen fromn
the second floor of West Quad,
University Police reported.
They were valued at $35 each.

'Twilight' at
UMix late night
WHAT: A combined Friday
the l3th and Valentines Day
celebration featuring a screen-
tog of "Twilight."
WHO: University Unions Arts
and Programs
WHEN: Tonight frona 10 p.m.
to 2 am.
WHERE: The Michigan
League
Peace Corps
application
workshop
WHAT: A University Peace
Corps Office staff will offer
advice and assistance filling
out Peace Corps applications.
WHO: The Internationaal
Center
WHEN: Today from 2 p.nm. to
3.30 p.m.
WHERE: Room::n122tt, Weill
Hal

Japanese drum
performance
WHAT: A performance
featusrinag the taiko drumo, a
symbol of the Japenese rural
comomunsity.
WHO: University Musical
Society
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
Transitioning to
the real world
WHAT: A lunch discussiona,
which will focus on transi-
tinning out of college anad into
the "real world."
WHO: Office of Multi-Ethnic
Student Affairs
WHEN: Today at 11:30 a.m.
WHERE: MSA Chambers, the
Miclaigan Union
CORRECTIONS
! Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michiganadaily~com.

1Though as of yesterday
1,173 people confirmed on
Facebook that they would
be attending a rally on the
Diag with President Barack
Obama on Apr. 1, University
Police spokesperson Diane
Brown said she hasn't heard
anything about a visit. "That
would be really quite far-
fetched," she said.
2 Director Henry Selick,
whose work includes 1993's
"The Nightmare Before
Christmas" and 1996's "James
and the Giant Peach," creates
another extraordinary and
bizarre world with "Coraline."
>SFOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGE5
3 Police are looking for
prankseers who hijaekeda
Montana Taco Bell's drive-
through radio signal and used
it to shout vulgarities to cus-
tomers, The Associated Press
freported,, The. suspects posed-
as Taco Bell employees in the
Tuesday afternoon episode,
which lasted a few minutes.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Coartney Ratkowiak ManagingEditoe ratkowiai@michigandaitveanm
Jacob SniloniiZ Mnaging Nes Editore silitz~@miehigandaity.com
SENIORNES E ITR:nn illian Benrmn,eor al,Jieowe LiandStevena
asnna skolKySansomntMaa'ns eai5Ubeatshnis
RobentlSnave tditoriatPaeEditor: savae@michigandaitycomn
Andy Reid Manaing Spors Etor reid@michigandaityacom
SENO RSE DITsonn O:ooNicleAuerbach, MikeEiseni,uan F~celdan, Chris
ASnSIoSNSeORTSaoEDIOSynKart, IamnsKay,asnaKohle,,,Chriseao,
Alenerospeni, laRsnwneig
talavd~atnick ManaineAet ditor wannitk@mihhndaiy~com
SENIOReARTS EDITORS:aieeBo,6BreandonCoai,,, Whitne Po
Zachary Mesnerand photo@mihigandaiycm
Cli Reeden Managing Phot tditars
mSoeEORHOO EDITORSSaid olaah,eChanoa absbur-Lathrinen
ASSISAT PHOTOEOS: Max Coellins, his Dzobak,ob Mig,SamWlson,
AngelatChih and design@nkchigandaityeanm
Macteen Stych Managing esign Editors
JessicalVosgenchian Mataine Editor vosgercthian@ichigandaityacom
David Menian MutimediaEtditr merian@michiandaity.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy chief mitcellt@michignailyacom
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael SchrotenboernDsplaty AdetiinesSalesManaer
sNmn,Christi~e Phllips
Ryan Businski Ctassified SatesManaer
Cafed Saas,Asisant anageAlson Thomas
Marissa Gerben Onine SatesManager
Ben tnglish Produton DesignManaer
Meryl Hulteng LayoutManager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loaeless rinane Manaers
ThenicianDaly (ISSN0t45-0tis publsedMda y troug Fridyding ahe fall ad6 i.t
ters yntudemins ateOnivest ofMihigan. One oy s ailabe eeo chagetotasell reaer.
Additinalopisy beikd uatthe Daily'nsofie for $. Subscii~ns for all ter,tatinin
Septemer.,va U..nma~l a$10mWner tenrma(Janahoepil)lis$11tyero(ep~tyemer
166, 0 Aprl is $15. Unvrya#69are 'dnt tata f u lbcriilae. Uh- no"
subsriptonshortfllsterm are$35. Sbsrptonnms e rpaid: e iciaaDaiyitaeer at
The:Assocat e essandThe soiatednollegatenPres.

U

4

CMU
CCNTRAL MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY

OFF-CAMPUS
PROGRAMS

4

r '0 do

;
,
..-
-


4" . n.


I

.. = -"'
R S


4

4..

4t

Auburn Hills
Clinton Twn
Dearborn
Flint
Grand Rapids
Lansing
Livonia
Saginaw
South field

4

With summer classes from Central Michigan University
Off=Campus Programs, you can still go home, sleep in late,
get a job, and have time for your friends.
It's all about quality and convenience.
Attend a Michigan center near you for a great ace-to-face
CMV experience, or take an online course wherever you
want (fuzz, bunny slippers optional).

Traverse City
Troy
Warren
Online bachelor's and master's courses or
face-to-.face classes at 12 CMU Centers

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Friday, February 13, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, February 13, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.
Calvin College
ousts student over
Facebook posting
Calvin College has expelled a
student over a sexual comment
about a fellow student he says was
posted on his Facebook page with-
out his knowledge.
Calvin earlier put 19-year-old
sophomore Tony Harris of South-
field on six months' probation.
TheChristianReformedChurch-
affiliated school told Harris to have
no contact with the female student,
move out of the dormitory they
shared and post a retraction on
Facebook.
Vicky Harris tells The Grand
Rapids Press Calvin expelled her
son yesterday after he refused to
post an apology. Messages seek-
ing comment were left for Calvin
spokesman Phil de Haan after busi-
ness hours yesterday.
Harris says the November post-
ing appeared after he'd given
another person his password.
MOSCOW
Crash of U.S.,
Russian satellites a
threat in space
U.S. and Russian officials traded
shots yesterday over who was to
blame for a huge satellite collision
this week that spewed speeding
clouds of debris into space, threat-
ening other unmanned spacecraft
in nearby orbits.
The smashup 500 miles (800
kilometers) over Siberia on Tuesday
involvedaderelictRussianspacecraft
designed for military communica-
tions and a working satellite owned
by U.S.-based Iridium, which served
commercial customers as well as the
U.S. Department of Defense.
A prominent Russian space
expert suggested NASA fell down
onthe job by not warning of the col-
lision. But U.S. space experts said
the Russian has the wrong agency.
The U.S. military tracks the
18,000 objects in orbit, monitoring
onlycertain threats because it lacks
the resources to do everything, said
Maj. Regina Winchester, spokes-
woman for U.S. Strategic Com-
mand,whichoverseesthemilitary's
Space Surveillance Network.
YEA Australia
Police: Man
questioned about
Australia wildfires
A spokesman says police are
questioning a man in connection
with Australia's deadly wildfires.
Victoria state police spokesman
Chris Nash told The Associated
Press yesterday that a man was
assisting investigators with their
inquiries into the wildfires, but
declined to go into details.
Respected newspaper The Age
reported that the, 39-year-old sus-
pect was expected to be charged
with arson causing death.
The Age reported that the

suspect was from the town of
Churchill. Police say one of Aus-
tralia's wildfires that struck last -
weekend was deliberately set near
Churchhill and that it killed at least
21 people.
More than 180 people were
killed as wildfires swept across
southeastern Victoria state.
DALLAS
Texas officials
order Peanut Corp.
to recall products
Texas health officials ordered
the recall yesterday of peanut
products from a plant operated
by the company at the center of
a national salmonella outbreak,
days after tests indicated the likely
presence of the bacteria there.
Peanut Corp. of America was
ordered to recall all products ever
shipped from its plant in Plain-
view after the Texas Department
of. State Health Services said it
found dead rodents, rodent excre-
ment and bird feathers in a crawl
space above a production area on
Wednesday.
Health Department spokesman
Doug McBride said it was up to
Peanut Corp. to inform its clients
around the country of the recall.
It wasn't immediately clear if the
company was complying: Phone
messages seeking comment from
the company weren't returned,
and no information regarding the
Texas action was posted on the
company's site.
Compiled from
Daily wire reports

War crimes court overshadows Darfur talks

Up to 300,000
people have died in
the conflict
DOHA, Qatar (AP) - Darfur reb-
els and Sudan government officials
exchanged blame for undermining
three-day-old peace talks, which'
were overshadowed yesterday by
fighting over a Darfur town and the
prospect of an imminent interna-
tionalarrestwarrantagainstSudan's
president for alleged war crimes.
The talks hosted by Qatar are
the first such one-on-one meeting
between the Sudanese government
and Darfur's strongest group of
ethnic African rebels, the Justice
and Equality Movement. It 'was
also the first round of peace talks
between any rebels and the gov-
ernment since the last negotiations
foundered in 2007.
Other Darfur rebel groups are
not attending the talks, which
began Tuesday with the aim of
sealing a cease-fire and setting a
framework for negotiations on a
peace deal. Up to 300,000 people
have died and 2.7 million have been

forced from their homes in Dar-
fur's war, which began after rebel
groups complaining of discrimi-
nation and neglect took up arms
against the Arab-led government
in 2003.
But the talks were shaken yes-
terday by reports that the Hague-
based International Criminal
Court will soon issue a warrant
against President Omar al-Bashir,
whom court prosecutors accuse of
war crimes for allegedly master-
Aminding genocide against Darfur's
ethnic Africans. Al-Bashir denies
the charges
A U.S.officialin Washington said
Thursday that the ICC is expected
to issue a warrant this month. The
official spoke on condition of ano-
nymity because of the diplomatic
sensitivity of the situation.
The leader of JEM, Khalil Ibra-
him, who was attending the Qatar
talks this week, welcomed the
report and said his group is ready
to arrest al-Bashir if he doesn't
hand himself in.
"A decision (by the ICC to issue
a warrant) won't affect the Doha
negotiation track, instead it rein-
forces the need for negotiations,"

MANEESH BAKSHI/AP
Justice and Equality Movement, JEM, leader Dr. Khalil Ibrahim, center, and his brother Jibrilbrahim, left, are seen during the
Darfur Peace talks, in Doha, Qatar, Wednesday, Feb S2009.

Ibrahim said.
Some international workers in
Darfur fear a warrant could spark a
backlash by al-Bashir, leading him
to end the peace process. Khar-

Commerce secretary SOBER MONITOR
From page 1

nominee withdraws

Judd Gregg is the
third Obama
cabinet nominee
to withdraw
WASHINGTON (AP) - Say-
ing "I made a mistake," Repub-
lican Sen. Judd Gregg of New
Hampshire abruptly withdrew as
commerce secretary nominee on
yesterday and left the fledgling
White House suddenly coping
with Barack Obama's third Cabi-
net withdrawal.
Gregg cited "irresolvable con-
flicts" with Obama's policies,
specifically mentioning the $790
billion economic stimulus bill
and 2010 census in a statement
released without warning by his
Senate office.
Later, at a news conference
in the Capitol, he sounded more
contrite.
"The president asked me to do
it," he said of the job offer. "I said,
yes. That was my mistake."
Obama offered a somewhat
different account from Gregg.
"It comes as something of a
surprise, because the truth, you
know, Mr. Gregg approached us
with interest and seemed enthu-
siastic," Obama said in an inter-
view with the Springfield (Ill.)
Journal-Register.
Later, he told reporters travel-
ing with him on Air Force One that
he was glad Gregg "searched his
heart" and changed course now
before the Senate confirmed him
to the Cabinet post. He also said
Gregg's withdrawal won't deter
him from working with Republi-
cans and trying to change the par-
tisan ways of Washington.
"Clearly he was just having
second thoughts about leaving
the Senate, a place where he's
thrived," Obama added.

The unexpected withdraw-
al came just three weeks into
Obama's presidency and on the
heels of several other Cabinet
troubles. The new president is
in the midst of expending politi-
cal capital in Washington - and
around the country - for his
economic package and is seeking
to move forward with an ambi-
tious agenda in the midst of an
economic recession while the
country continues to face threats
abroad.
Now Obama also finds himself
needing to fill two vacancies - at
Commerce and at the Health and
Human Services Department.
Former Senate Democratic leader
Tom Daschle withdrew his nomi-
nation for that post amid a tax
controversy. Treasury Secretary
Tim, Geithner was confirmed
despite revelations that he had not
paid some of his taxes on time.
New Mexico Gov. Bill Richard-
son was Obama's first choice as
commerce secretary. He withdrew
in early January following disclo-
sure that a grand jury is investi-
gating allegations of wrongdoing
in the awarding of contracts in
his state. Richardson has not been
implicated personally.
Gregg was one of three Repub-
licans Obama had put in his Cabi-
net to emphasize his campaign
pledge that he would be an agent
of bipartisan change.
White House Chief of Staff
Rahm Emanuel said Gregg told
the White House early this
week that he was having second
thoughts and met with Obama
about them during an Oval Office
meeting on Wednesday. Emanuel
said there were no hard feelings
and "it's better we figured this
out now than later."
"He went into this eyes open
and he realized over time it
wasn't going to be a good fit,"
Emanuel added.

with fraternities in an effort to
reduce risk and avoid social pro-
bation," Nunez said in an e-mail
interview. "This program was a
product of that philosophy."
In fall 2008, the program was
piloted with four training ses-
sions, which included two for the
IFC and Panhellenic Association
executive boards and two for the
pledge classes.
Parritz said it's important for
sober monitors to receive ade-
quate training because the Greek
community relies on them to
maintain a safe environment at
parties.
"My goal for this program is to
have every new member - that is,
the individuals generally respon-
sible for the operation and conduct
of our social events.- complete it
by February of 2010," Parritz said
in an e-mail interview. "Our com-
munity trusts these individuals
with the safety and conduct of
our social events; as such, they
should be trained by profession-
als, and never be placed in a situ-
ation where they are unsure what
to-do."
Desprez said there have been
three training sessions so far this
semester, with each session having
between 10 and 40 people in atten-
dance. There are planstohave eight
to 12 sessions conducted by the end
of the semester, she said.

toum worries that the prospect of
prosecution could harden rebels'
negotiating positions.
The head of the Sudanese gov-
ernment delegation in Qatar, Amin
The training program includes
conversations and demonstrations
on blood alcohol content, recogniz-
ing different levels of intoxication,
alcohol-related laws, risk manage-
ment issues, conflict management
skills, and emergency protocol,
Desprez said.
Parritz said that so far only
members of the IFC and Pan-
hel executive boards have gone
through the training. They plan
to have first-year members start
attending the sessions after spring
break. The training program is not
a series program, but rather some-
thing individuals would go to only
once, he said.
In the past, the program was
imposed as a sanction for chapters
that violated social responsibility
policy, said Parritz. But this semes-
ter, the program will no longer be
used as a requirement for those
chapters, but as a recommended
educational tool for all chapters.
Desprez said there will be other
educational programs designed for
chapters that have violated social
responsibility policy.
"Our hope is we can get as many
people trained and not have people
see it as some sort of punishment,"
Desprez said. "We would design
something different. When we
design an educational program
based on a sanction we would have
it tailored to that particular inci-
dent."
Parritz said the program is not
going to be mandated for all Greek
members so that it remains some-

Hassan Omar, railed against the
ICC, calling it a "European court
with a political character. It was
used openly for political pressure,"
Omar said.
thing that individual chapters can
voluntarily attend.
"To preserve the integrity and
genuine interest in the sober moni-
tor training program, we are leav-
ing the decision to the individual
chapters as to whether or not they
want their new members to par-
ticipate," Parritz said.
LSA freshman Michael Was-
serman, a member of Delta Tau
Delta, attended a training ses-
sion on Tuesday. He said 'he
thinks the program will be suc-
cessful in helping the Greek
community.
"I think it's going to be very
effective," Wasserman said. "It's
helpful to know what to do in bad
situations and how to assess if it's
something serious."
Nunez said the program was
designed specifically to meet the
needs of the University's Greek
community. He added that the pro-
gram was the first of its kind to be
developed at the University or any
other institution.
"It isn't a cookie-cutter pre-
sentation, or a paid speaker who
makes the same presentation
at universities across the coun-
try," Nunez said. "It is a program
developed by Michigan students
and staff, specifically to address
the needs. of the Michigan Greek
community."
Parritz said the program's goal
is ultimately one of long-term
value, in which all members of the
Greek community will be educated
in this area.

3f0 wd st, N134M9.010lowo d L W4Mfto tA, eud WPa, i s$ww
AU..,



0

an

4 - Friday, February 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Michigan's promise
New promise zones are good for students and the economy
f the CTools video featuring University Provost Teresa Sulli-
van, the barrage of e-mails from the office of Financial Aid and
the exorbitant bills students pay each semester have yet to sink
in, here's a clue: tuition is absurdly expensive. And across the state,
students who can't afford to pay up have no choice but to forgo a col-
lege education. But the new Michigan Promise Zone Act that was
recently signed into law could ease the burden of higher education
costs to these students. For the act to be effective, though, private
donors must invest in the state's future by helping to pay for these
students to go to college.

On Jan. 13, Gov. Jennifer Granholm
signed the Michigan Promise Zone Act,
which will create zones in which scholar-
ships are provided for students in low-in-
come areas. The promise zones are based
upon the highly successful Kalamazoo
Promise program, which fully covers
tuition to graduates of Kalamazoo Public
Schools who go on to attend in-state public
universities. Since the Kalamazoo Prom-
ise began two years ago, the city has seen
higher graduation rates and an increase in
enrollment. Enrollment and retention rates
for Michigan State University and the Uni-
versity of Michigan have also improved.
The success of the Kalamazoo effort
is encouraging and is more than enough
evidence to justify the state's expansion
of the program. Right now, there are 125
communities in Michigan with poverty
levels that qualify them to become promise
zones. Promise zone status will be granted
on a first-come, first-serve basis for com-
munities that prove they have enough pri-
vate funds to provide scholarships for two
years. After that, the state will match the
funding. Both Muskegon and Pontiac are
already working to raise the money.
The winners here, of course, are the stu-
dents who get the chance to go to college.
The communities eligible to become promise
zones are full of students whose only obsta-

cle to a college education is the bill. Promise
zones will make this sad reality a thing of the
past for many Michigan residents. _
And while students will get free college
out of the deal, the state will see its fair
share of benefits, too. The Michigan Prom-
ise Zone Act will boost the enrollment at in-
state public universities, which will affect
college rankings and likely keep more col-
lege graduates working in Michigan. High-
er enrollment and graduation rates will
lead to economic stability. Churning out
more college-educated workers is the only
way to shift the state's economy away from
manufacturing.
But if Michigan residents want to help
the state, they must do their part to help
make the promise zones a reality. Private
investors should be motivated to donate to
these scholarships until the state matches
the funding, since the fates of private busi-
nesses are tied to the fate of Michigan's
economy. When private businesses and
donors invest in programs that help Michi-
gan diversify its economy, they are helping
themselves in the long run. A better-edu-
cated workforce means more successful
businesses.
And though the zones come too late to help
students already enrolled at universities,
this law might even make it so that Sullivan
doesn't have to appear on CTools anymore.

Democrats have been making up for
lost time with a government spending spree
on the taxpayer credit card."
- Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell (R - KY), criticizing the Democrats for their
spending in the recent stimulus package, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
BELLA SHAH E-MAIL BELLAAT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU
~S ,\0to a
Is 1,000 too many?
The fact that there are over together. Because resources are limit- a community. Having a social network
1,000 student organizations ed and the features of the studentsrga- keeps people from falling through
on campus is continuously nization system don't encourage broad the cracks at school and provides an
reiterated to pocen- collaboration, there's little reason to invaluable opportunity for students to
tial Wolverines. It's work together aside from increasing undergo social, professional or spirito-
a part of campus funding or attendance. The need to be al development. In addition, some sto-
admissions lore, relevant drives groups away from each dents probably need or prefer smaller,
A, quick check of other in the organizational landscape. more intimate communities.
the Maize Pages If an organization isn't serving a par- ________
reveals the latest ticular need, it's easier to create a new
count of registered one rather than combine efforts.Th obe
groups. Any stu- This is fine, of course, because T eprobe
dent can join any many causes ranging from human wit ii.
of the hundreds of NEIL rights no professional development W~n1m less
groupstcheywannor TAMBE are represented. But when campus- std n
even start a brand- _ _ __ wide movements would be helpful or clubst c .
new one. But this necessary--like efforts to lowerrising _________
could be one of the tuition costs, increase access to sto-
reasons for some of the disappointing dent healthcare, for example - those Maybe I'm misguided. Maybe
features of student life, like competi- movements struggle. The more groups the churn of student organizations
tion for resources, fragmentation and there are, the harder it is to organize is such a minor concern that it's not
self-segregation. because there are, varying opinions even worth talking about because a
As the number of student orga- and everyone is too busy to participate large menu of choices is worthwhile in
nizations grows, one key resource in something larger. spite of the costs. Maybe the ability to
doesn't grow very much - people. Perhaps the fact that campus rum- organize across student organizanions
The amount of undergraduates at the munities often stay insulated from is irrelevant because existing mecha-
University has continued to hover other established communities is also nismsr for institutional change at the
near 26,000 as more student organi- due to the vast student organization University are sufficient.
zations have emerged. Consequently, landscape. After all, there's not much Perhaps, however, by acknowledg-
a growing number of groups compete reasontoljoin a group that stretches an log the problems that come with so
no recruit for a relatively fixed amount individual's boundaries if a more com- many groups, we can do better. We
of people. Because the resources at the fortable student group already exists mighteach ourselves to manage more
University are constant - and unless or can be created easily. complex projects that target broader
admissions skyrocket or additional Maybe it doesn't matter so much if issues, even though incentives to do
funds are allocated to student life ini- an Actuarial Mathematics Club and so are lacking. After some thought-
tiatives - there is a certain capacity of the March of Dimes chapter don't ful deliberation, it might make sense
student organizations that can be sup- interact. But when segregation occurs to consolidate organizations or ini-
ported at Michigan. I hope we haven't on lines of race, class, sexual orien- tiatives. In any case, if the need for a
exceeded it. tation or other social identities, our campus-wide or nationwide move-
Another result is that the pumped- campus only contributes to the mis- ment ever arises, I hope student orga-
up student organization landscape understanding between communities nizations will overcome the structural
contributes to a sense of fragments- and the conflict that brews at the soci- limitations posed by the student orga-
tionat our campus. In a system where etal level between interest groups on nizationsystemand transformts over-
students choose the type and amount opposing sides of those boundaries, come these challenges.
of activities in which they want to Of course, there is a legitimate rca-
involve themselves, there's not much son to have hundreds of student orga- - Neil Tambts can he reached
reason for organizations to work nizations: that way, everyone can find at ntambegsmichedu.

4

4

4

"i

4

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

I

Go on a diet: eat o-cal

LSA-SG President's actions
violate organization bylaws
TO THE DAILY:
In response to LSA Student Government
President Leslie Zaikis' decision that party
affiliations were no longer going to be part of
LSA Student Government elections (LSA Stu-
dent Government to drop party labelsfrom ballot,
2/11/2009), the actions of LSA-SG's president
and some of the executive officers are in viola-
tion of the LSA-SG's bylaws and of students'
rights, which those bylaws are intended to pro'-
tect. As a former president of LSA-SG, I would
like to set up some facts for those on campus
who are interested in running in the LSA-SG
election, an opportunity that I would encourage
any interested student to explore.
First, it is a violation of the LSA-SG bylaws to
notallowstudentstocometogether and formpar-
ties to run in elections and have their party name
appear on the election ballot. While a single-
party system is by no means an appropriate way
to handle government elections, banning parties
all together is rather rash and inappropriate. Stu-.
dents who do not have a widespread popularity
base simply cannot win without a party system,
regardless of how qualified they may be.
Furthermore, this solution to the one-par-
ty system problem will only make problems
worse in that only the students who are "well-
connected" or "popular" will continue to win
student government elections because they
will not have the additional finances, time,
and energy that comes with being a member
of a political party. Due to its other important
obligations, LSA-SG is not capable of reaching
out to everyone on campus. This is where par-
ties come into play. Parties have the time and
energy to seek out new and interested students
from a variety of backgrounds to bring more
diversity of perspective and thought to LSA's

student government.
I. strongly encourage all members of govern-
ment, and even all LSA students, to become edu-
cated on their rights to run in an election and
exercise them accordingly.
Keith Reisinger
The letter writer is an LSA Senior and the former
president ofLSA-SG.
Daily's concerns aboutPh.D.
policy change are unjustified
TO THE DAILY:
There are many questions that still need to be
resolved about the current proposal for continu-
ous enrollment thathas been passed by the Rack-
ham Executive Board, but the issue raised in your
editorial (Rackham's mistake, 02/12/2009) is not
one of them.
Class sizes will not increase by requiring con-
tinuous enrollment. The people who are affected
by this measure are overwhelmingly Ph.D. candi-
dates who are not taking classes. As a Rackham
professor, I meet with my Ph.D. students wheth-
er they are enrolled or not, so this will not really
mean any difference in my workload.
The proposal aims to ensure that departments
have a financial incentive to ensure that students
receivethe proper attention from faculty mentors
and that they have an active University affiliation
upon which to draw if they need to. However, the
questions the GEO raises in Thursday's news arti-
cle (Ph.D.s in uproar over new policy, 2/12/2009)
are pertinent, especially in areas where the
demands of cutting-edge research have tended to
mean that itntakes longer to graduate.
David Potter
The letter writer is chair of the Senate Advisory
Committeeon UniversityAffairs andaProfessorof
Greek and Latin.

As the economic crisis contin-
ues, our nation is struggling
to turn around its money,
fate and fortune.
Proceeding hand- K
in-hand with our
economic restruc-
turing has been the
call to "Buy Ameri-
can" and even to
mandate it as a part
of the economic
stimulus plan.
The call to buy MEG
American makes YOUNG
some people anx-
ious, both the
free-trade crowd
here and our foreign suppliers. This
week's cover of The Economist maga-
zine melodramatically expressed
those fears. Trade protectionism is
personified as a reanimated corpse
with a horror flick title across the top
that reads, "The Return of Economic
Nationalism."
Despite the stir, buying American
holds a lot of power right now. And
not just on the national level: Gover-
nor Jennifer Granholm's latest State
of the State address featured Michi-
*gan labor as an essential part of the
state's plan. According to Granholm,
"instead of spending nearly $2 billion
a year importing coal or natural gas
from other states, we'll be spending
our energy dollars on Michigan wind
turbines, Michigan solar panels,
Michigan energy-efficiency devic-
es, all designed, manufactured and
installed by... Michigan workers."
We need to make a similar effort
to buy American on a local level.
Regardless of our differences when
it comes to international trade policy,
we can agree on what we want our
city's economy to look like.
All ofus benefit from the smallbusi-
nesses that stitch together Ann Arbor's
economy. Because of the little restau-
rants and bookstores that make this

place so unique, the University is able
to attract some of the most progressive
minds in the world. This is a symbiotic,
even chicken-and-egg relationship; it's
tough to say which boomed first. Ann
Arbor and the University wouldn't be
one withoutthe other.
When I read in the Ann Arbor
News that Shaman Drum bookstore
was looking for help from an inves-
tor, it hit me like a call to arms. More
students are buying their textbooks
online to save money - and in these
hard times, that is completely under-
standable. Shaman Drum owner Karl
Pohrt took pre-emptive measures to
prepare for the blow. He applied Sha-
man Drum for nonprofit status in an
attempt to embrace our community
and Shaman Drum's role in it. The
Internal Revenue Service returned
his request with a letter in November
sayiiigthat they're too swamped with
requests to review it for some time. In
the meantime, Shaman Drum needs
our support.
Students cannot become investors
in our local icons, but our actions en
masse are just as influential. We truly
are voting with our dollars when we
spend them. In this vein, I want to write
a campaign ad for our community.
Shaman Drum has books you'll
never find in a chain store because
Pohrt and his staff cater to our com-
munity. To really look at the shelves
is to take the city's pulse. They'll even
have the esoteric book your profes-
sor suggested you read. But one thing
matters most of all. The place has the
soul of a poet and a scholar. Besides,
it brings literary figures in to speak,
many of whom are recently gradu-
ated authors in need of a launching
point to "the real world."
When I heard that Shaman Drum
might be having tough times, the first
thing I did was pick up some books
there. It's an empty gesture, unless
you do it too. Times are hard for
everyone right now and we have to

stick together.
But we're not just talking about
bookstores here. When you go out to
eat, forget the sandwich chains that
have elbowed their way onto State
Street (aren't as affected franchises if
the rent is too high). Go say hi to Sava
or Silvioinstead.
Want to help
the economy?

4

4

Buy American.
Forget seeing "My Bloody Valen-
tine" in 3D. Check out the Michigan
or State Theater instead - your date
might even mistake you for "cool." In
all seriousness: when you choose to
buy local, your lifestyle will change
for the better.
You and the shopkeepers begin to
know each other. Those little conver-
sations you have, or even their nod of
recognition, can pick up your day and
theirs.
Sure, we need our food to be cheap
if we're going to eat out at all. I'd just
like to let the .$5 sandwich crowd
know that they can get a pound of
Indian food at the same price. You
just have to know where to look. For
those in a hurry, snag a chicken sha-
warma pita.
Everything local has an unfair repu-
tation for being expensive. I work at
Caf6Ambrosia, and wehave the cheap-
est cup ofcoffeeinAnnArbor.Working
there only convinces me that people
like that local familiarity. Most of our
customers come in every day.
Give a little place a try that you
haven't been before. My next stop? The
Jamaican JerkPit on Thayer Street.
- Meg Young can be reached
at megyoung@umich.edu.

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus,
the Daily would like students to voice their opinions on what should
be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 13, 2009 - 5

Unchecked power

By KAVI PANDEY
For the Daily
February is a notorious dumping ground for
sub-par superhero movies (see
"Ghost Rider" and "Jumper").
Unfortunately, "Push" fol-
lows in this regrettable tradi- Push
tion. The film's visual beauty
and brilliantly executed action At Showcase
sequences are bogged down and Quality16
by a convoluted storyline with Summit
super-powered characters who
are impossible to track. It's
nothing more than a big-budget, well-directed
episode of "Heroes."
In the universe of "Push," people with super-
human abilities live among ordinary citizens.
The crackpot origin of their powers is given in
the opening credits, but by the end of the movie
Striking visuals with
no substance.
few viewers will remember or care. People with
superpowers are tracked by Division, a shady
government agency. To accomplish their mys-
terious evil agenda, Division is developing a
serum that will enhance peoples' superpowers.
The story follows a woman named Kira (Camilla
Belle, "10,000 BC"), who escapes from Division
with the only sample of this serum and flees to
Hong Kong. There, she finds help among a group
of superhumans, including Nick (Chris Evans,
"Fantastic Four") and Cassie, played by ageless
wonder Dakota Fanning ("War of the Worlds").
What follows is a spectacularly confusing tale
comprised of a few dazzling set pieces mixed
with long-winded exposition.,
"Push" divides individuals into categories by
their abilities. The film's title comes frpm the
most powerful group, known as Pushers, who
have the ability to "push" any thought into some-
one's mind. Nick is a Mover who can telekineti-

cally move objects; Cassie is a Watcher who has
visions of future events. The rest of this article
could be spent listing the remaining categories:;
characters with new powers seem to appear
whenever it's convenientfor the plot.
The film's main characters are all action movie
stereotypes, but a handful of quirks make their
depictions seem fresh. Nick is the goofy-yet-vul-
nerable protagonist hopingto avenge his father's
death. Cassie is the sassy, all-knowing teenager.
Both have grudges against Division: it killed
Nick's father and has Cassie's mother in custody.
Part of the film's limited appeal is the heroes'
ineptitude. Unlike most superheroes, Nick and
Cassie are far from experts with their abilities.
Nick can't even use his powers to win a dice
game in a back alley and the far-superior Divi-
sion agents beat him up throughout the movie.
Cassie, meanwhile, constantly misinterprets her
visions. For some reason, she believes alcohol
will clarify these visions and ends up buying a
bottle of vodka. Yes, Dakota Fanning gets drunk
in this movie.
Narrative failures aside, "Push" is a feast for
the eyes. It was filmed on location in Hong Kong,
with an impressive lack of green screens. The
city comes alive in the hands of director Paul
McGuigan ("Lucky Number Slevin"), treating
audiences to sequences in the slums as well as
glitzy casinos. The action sequences are easily the
most engagingsections of the film. They are shot
in the claustrophobic, shaky style of "The Bourne
Ultimatum" against the backdrop of Hong Kong's
radiant neon skyline. Unlike most spectacle mov-
ies, "Push" would have benefited from more of
these tight, stunning fight scenes.
But "Push" just can't seem to find its target
audience. There isn't enough violence for action
junkies, comic book geeks will roll their eyes at
the run-of-the mill superpowers and the unnec-
essarilycomplexplotwilldrive awayviewerswho
just want to pass time. McGuigan is a true talent
and will become a Hollywood mainstay as soon
as he has a proper script with which to work. But
"Push" is full of so many double-crossings and
plot holes that few will walk out of the theater
with a clear understanding of what happened.

"The Gspot must be around here somewhere.
Swet 'Coraline

Director Henry
Selick's animation
scores again
By NOAH DEAN STAHL
Daily Arts Writer
Revered animated-film direc-
tor Henry Selick has a new picture
out. It's not a clas-
sic. Selick's new *
film, "Coraline," is
the story of Cora- oralne
line Jones (voiced
by Dakota Fanning, At Showcase
"The Secret Life of and Qualityl6
Bees") a girl who Focus
moves to a gloomy
woodland apart-
ment building with her remarkably
negligent parents (Teri Hatcher of
TV's "Desperate Housewives" and
John Hodgman, the bespectacled
"PC" from Apple' commercials). She
stumbles upon a hidden door that
leads to a parallel universe in which
everything is the same, except more
marvelous and fantastical.
In this world her parents are caring
and devoted; her once-oddball neigh-
bors are still pretty odd, though in an

entertaining, vaudevillian sort of way;
and the chatterbox neighborhood boy
can no longer talk - his cat assumes
the role of conversationalist. Oh, and
everyone has buttons for eyes.
The film is an affirmation of Selick's
ability to create a world so extraordi-
nary and bizarre that it should literally
make viewers' jaws go slack. With a
resume like Selick's, perhaps that's no
surprise. His first feature film, 1993's
"The Nightmare Before Christmas,"
is considered to be one of history's
most iconic holiday films - animated
or otherwise. Three years later, he
adapted Roald Dahl's beloved "James
and the Giant Peach." Five years after
that, however, he forayed into mixed
animation and live-action with "Mon-
keybone," a critically catastrophic
box-office disappointment.
With "Coraline," Selick returns to
the mediun with which he is most
comfortable: stop-motion animation.
He also uses a different technology:
3D animation, which has started tobe
considered by some as the newest cin-
ematic innovation.
3D films are not new by any means.
The industry made a push for it in the
'50s and then again in-the '70s, though
the shtick didn't hold up and 3D tech-
nology took its place in the ranks of

pop-culture ephemera.
In "Coraline," certain 3D aspects
definitely enhance the film. At other
times, however, these elements feel
like cheap parlor tricks. What the film
amounts to is an awkward amalgam
of old and new innovations. This is
particularly the case because of the
admirable - though admittedly primi-
tive - style of the animation. From
an artistic standpoint, it's important
that filmmakers like Selick are mak-
ing stop-motion features. That said,
a film like "Coraline," which employs
the use of both stop-motion and 3D, is
emblematic of the differences between
traditional and modern animation and
revelatory of the limitations of a film
that uses both.
"Coraline" is a light and fun movie
that is, more than anything, an inter-
esting formal endeavor. There's no
question that it pales in comparison to
"The Nightmare Before Christmas"
and "James and the Giant Peach."
Whether it will be remembered and
recalled in the same breath as those
films depends on the success of new
3D technology. "Coraline" could just
as easily be seen as either a significant
step in the direction of film innova-
tion or a well-meaning technological
misstep.

Nicktoons's X factor

By TOMMY COLEMAN
For theDaily
Ever find yourself humming the theme song to
that old '90s X-Men cartoon?
For those craving the group's *
animated return to television,
there's some X-cellent news. Wolverine
Since the first X-Men comic and
in 1963, the gang has become
one of the most popular super- X-Men
hero lineups in American Fridays at
culture. Aside from multiple
comic book series published 8 ppm.
by Marvel, the X-Men have Nicktoons
recently dug their way into the
mainstream with three feature films. Less cele-
brated - at least by a majority of people - are the
X-Men cartoons. "Wolverine and the X-Men" is
the latest animated show, succeeding "X-Men:
The Animated Series" and "X-Men: Evolution."
This retelling of the X-Men story breaks the
norm by beginning not at the time of the group's
formation, but rather at the time they disband.
A mysterious attack on the home of the X-Men
leaves the school and X-Men base in ruins. Pro-
fessor X and team member Jean Grey go miss-
ing, and the remaining X-Men decide to hang up
their tights in exasperation.
In the meantime, the ruthless government-
run Mutant Response Division is capturing and
detaining mutants and anyone who sympathizes
with them. Without the X-Men, there's no super-
team to defend the helpless remaining mutants.
Now it's up to Wolverine to get the
gang back together.
This series's is the most manly
incarnation of the character to
date. He's still the motorcycle-
riding rebellious outsider with
kick-ass sideburns who thinks
everyone's name is "Bub." But his
voice is lower and more intimi-
dating than ever, thanks to Steve
Blum (the voice of Spike from
"Cowboy Bebop"), and each of his
arms is the size of his torso, mak-
ing bodybuilder Ronnie Coleman
look like Steve Urkel.
Wolverine is joined by fellow
teammates and fan favorites Beast,
Wolverine takes
charge at last.
Rogue, Shadowcat, Nightcrawler,
Cyclops, Iceman and Colossus.
Comic fans will be pleased that
most of these well-known Marvel
mutants are very similar to their
comic book counterparts.
Except for Cyclops, that is. Jean
Grey's disappearance has turned
the formerly confident frontman
into a miserable mess, and he has
given up his role as the leader of
the X-Men for a life of moping
around. This allows Wolverine,
once the outsider of the group, to
try his hand at responsibility, tak-
ing Cyclops's place as the captain
of the X-Men.
The animation is stylistically

similar to anime and the visuals of "Wolver-
ine" are noticeably more impressive than those
of "X-Men: Evolution." The environments are
drawn more intricately and the characters'move-
ments animated more naturally. As a result, the
fightingscenes are tremendous. It's impossible to
top the three X-Men
movies when it comes
to mind-blowing
action scenes, but
these cartoon battles
come close.
The cartoons onl
Nicktoons Network
are not exactly tai-
lored to the adult shaping the
demographic, but
"Wolverine and the Check'
X-Men" seems to be starting
a better fit for older
viewers than either
"Evolution" or the
original X-Men car- Comph
toon. The premise email s
of "Wolverine" is Februa
more complex, and
the smart-ass Spi- Enter ft
derman-esque one-
liners are left at the +8GB
door. Of course, kids + $75S
will still enjoy the + $50 8
show, but now more + U-go'
seasoned X-enthusi- + UM C
asts can too. + Munc

E r yoAu NN
vnions for you

your email
February 11th
ete the Unions
urvey between
ry 11 - 20, 2009.
or a chance to win great prizes including:
Pod Touch
TA Travel Vouchers
arnes & Noble Bookstore Gift Card
s Gift Bags
ommemorative Books
hie Money

Let us know what
you think and win
great prizes!-

by George Kellp
4 rdvddo abounds in
this 1920s comedy
where d little bit of
bluff goes d long wdu
Directed by Philip Kerr
Department of
Theatre & Drama
February 12 at 7:30 PM
February 3 & 1 4 at 8 PM
February 1 5 at 2 PM
Mendelssohn Theatre
Ticketa $24 & $18
Students $9 w/lD
rr
Direty o Miipsoerr
MusihTheatre&Dace
Ticket si$.2 $h.ed


0

6- Friday, February 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACE AT corner of Divi-
sion/Huron. Easy access, paved lot -
plowed/salted. $135/mo. 994-8120.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
Or rent $
060 A ~
i! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HID directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarboraprtments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL '09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break and get these new rates.
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurmished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!NEW FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE!!
Newly built, 4-bdrm./3 bath. hse. Ctr.
a/c, dwshr., dry., deck, garage, free
prkg. Close to medical school! 1318
Jones 734-995-8695 $1800/mo.
!2 BDRMS - Great campus locations!
1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917 Packard,
848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Walnut. All
furnished, include heat, water, and park-
ing, some with free wireless!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
**AVAIL. FALL '09. 3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.

coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MIs48104
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
!3 BEDROOM Apts!
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!6-Bedroom House!
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 -8 people. Closeto
Downtown, Zingerman's & summer
farm market! (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
!MAY-- May 2 bedroom!
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
Soon of a convened house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
2 BDRM., UPPER half of house with
free washer/dryer, separate entrance,
A/C, lots of closet space, extra storage
in basement, small backyard, off street
parking, close to campus and bus lines.
Some pets allowed. 775/mo + utilities.
Available early March, Call Mike 734-
646-5771.
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Internet!
$20 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
Don't miss out on tke Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at1734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

cth
2-bedr
Q a .d0VFall and M
19 Great Locations Spacious.
Studio - 4 Bedrooms Fre info
Call or e
Avail. shoe
Spring & Fall 2009 informat
734.741.9300 APARTM
www.annarborapartmets.net Efficien
Furnished,
or Visit us at FREE p
Call today 0
1700 Geddes AVe. Prim
761-
*Ameit
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg APART
spaces avail. on-site lndry. $2450 + FALL2009
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com 3 Bedrooms
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available Fall 727 Packard $
09. 2 baths, hurdwood floor, Free laun- 915 Daklnd
dry and parking. Ner Yost Arena 1015 Packrd;
$2000 call: 734-717-6913. 205 N. Divisi
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE 4 Bedrooms
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath- 1203 Oakland
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and 929 Church $
off street parking, corner of Madison 731 Packard $
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wison White Manage- 5 Bedrooms
w ent 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com 205 N. Divisi
406 EAST JEFFERSON9 1021 E. Univ
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen 1307S. State:
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.neta
428 HAMILTON PLACE 6 Bedrooms
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen. 4
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty 401 E. Madis
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net 1014 Vaughn:
1814 Geddes
CENTRAL CAMPUS 3 and 4 bed-
room houses for rent. 734-649-7571. 8 Bedrooms
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS 325 E. Jeffers
$450-$650 Many Studio,
$450-$650ments availa
SEPT. 2009 Management
COPI PROPERTIES campus wis
734-663-5609 AVAIL IM
BLE leases,
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley. Call today 741
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. AVAIL. MAY
Prospect. Lg.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE central A/C.
Huge multi-use parking area 734-665-2723
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3400 717-2935 AVA
Beautiful
6 BEDROOM, 2 blocks from Business floors bay
School, 1111 Prospect, Sept-Sept, blocks to
$2,400/mo., 8 mo. lease May-Sept b
$2,000/mo. very nice, 614-395-8104. AVAILABLE
7 bdrm. 521
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3 spots, wshr./
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved tral heat/AC $
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch. 5 bdrm. 525
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. spots, wshr./d
tral hear,/AC $
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3t
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, Contact Jonah
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. AVAILAB
7 BEDROOM for fall. Co
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchens, 2 Bath. 5552 or w
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net BIG HSE: 5
Living, dinin
7 BEDROOMS study, Free d
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989. EFFICIENC
Oldtownrealty.net avail. Fall 09
Most incl., h
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large prkg. avail. fo
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large Visit CappoM
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577. FALL RE
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09 Pam., fee I
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses, F
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web- FREE HEA
site at www.allmandpropees.com for able for 3, pn
rnm1-77, SI

oom apartments
lay leases available.
apts., great location,
:rnet. 912 S. Forest.
mail Post Realty for
wing or more
on: 734-761-8220 or
realtyproperties.com
ENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
es, I & 2 Bedrooms!
heat & water included,
arking and Ethernet!
or an appointment to see!
e Student Housing
8000 primes.com
ies varies by location
IENTS AVAILABLE
(some with new prices!)
1890
2295
$1355
on $1995
$2825
3195
2695
on $2950
95
rsity $2250
$2495
on $3995
$3695
$3595
on $4295
1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ble too! Wilson White
734-995-9200
whitemanagement.com
onwhitemanagement.com
MEDIATELY- FLEXI-
furnished or unfurnished.
1-9657.
- 5 bdrm. duplex. 1114
bdrms., modern kitch.,
Free ]dry. $2650+ utli.
. shahtiger@hotmail.com
ILABLE FALL.
I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
window, new kitchen. 2
ampus. 734-944-2405.
FALL 2009
Linden, 2 bath, 6 prkg.
dryer,dwshr/disposal, cen-
3200 linden521@lmecom
Linden, 2 bath., 4 prkg.
ryer, dwshr/disposal, cen-
2800 linde525@me.com
Copi 415 786 8206.
LE HOUSES AND apts.-
intact PMSI at 734-665-
ww.pmsiproperties.com
lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
g rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
ry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
Y AND 1 bdrm. apts.
. Prices range $675-$925.
eat and water and have
r $25/mo. 734-996-1991
anagement.com
NTAL: 6 Bdrm. House
Central Campus, 3 bath,.
dry, prkg, 734-786-0249.
, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
kg + Iidry incl. 2 blocks
400. 734-260-4003.
DRM apt in prime loca-
ater included. $1249/mo.
. www.campsrealty.com

IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and Stale) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiabletoo! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issapropeflies.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen- highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$788-$949/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213. -
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.

3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1200/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.anarborapartments.ne
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clea,- furnished, security. Call
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.
Studio & 1
3crm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quiev&hecumnerigse -Ood5vkmniCapus
Call Brian Tonsic
734-663-1530
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314KE. Summit $1995
-515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525 -
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagemen.com
campus@wilsowhitemaageentcom
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Inclded
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
s. ^"'. --u-nn ~~ r rr ^-A ^, ~

RELEASE DATE- Friday, February 13, 209
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2Tiny 37 Decorators 5516th century
1 Stradivari's 3 Has _ of concern painter
teacher confidence 38 Resort feature Veronese
6 Wickiup dweller, 4 Blush 42 Continuously 56 Colossus
perhaps 5 60-yr-old state 43 Colombian coin 57 Portmanteau
12 Like some 6 Extra 46 Asian legend 58 Knight stick
tempers 7 Attach, in a way 49 Evened 59 Put in
15 Cranial cavity 8 Clownish 51 1996 Costner 60 Celebrity
16 Elton John hit 9 XVim x VI golf movie 61 Plan
17 Husband of 10 Publishing icon, 52 Hungarian-born 66 Word with day or
Fatima familiarly architect way
18 Tightwad with 11 "The Simpsons Goldfinger 67 ATM maker
emotional Theme" 54 High styles 68 Sweater letter
problems? composer
20 Malarkey Danny ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 "Out 12 Support for ballet
22"An Iceland practice? H I F I S E A S E D E L L
Fisherman" 13 Plenty A D U L T P H I L A Q U A
author Pierre 14 Airhead H O L L Y W O O D O R B U S T
23 Sitcomlandlord 19 Allure competitor A L L A X L E Y O U T H
25 Rodeo bling? 24 ER tes H E A V Y D A T E S Y S
29 Jargon ending 26 'Dilber' intern
30 Summoned 27 Jazz singer J O L L Y O S U
331960s-'70s Diana L O U I S U N i T TS A R
"Jeopardy!" 28 "Symphonie P O S T O F F I C E M O T T O
announcer espagnole" SKEE R O X Y A P A I N
36Pmiramp 1copser SEA S K I R T
38 Flightimraining 31 Merie _
milestone England V I D B U C K W H E A T
40 Massage target 32 Big noise A R O A R Y A R E R A E
41 Sound of 33 Bombard L I N C O L N H E A D C E N T
Oe aing? 34 Arizona's _ Fria IN O N E D N A ASK T O
44Conrabine's Rim, E WISK
rom 3' Stun a Beatle? -
45 Gidiin a Beatles 30 Pipe type xwordeditor@aol.com 02/13/09
ti4le 1 2 4 s 4 i s 6 78 10 1 12 1 314
47 Impemative
48 Butyl acetate, 1 6i me
50 Break, in Bristol 61s 20
52 Shingie ahhr
53 Sadle debct?
60 Belong 27 Zs
62 Analgesic's
target30 31 32
63 The Oest
nuidge Sndal" 3 n a 8 so37 a s
author Trusonn
64 "Cold Mountain" 4a4
heroine 4 3a
65 Flood in an 0 0 0
artent?
69 Pice view 63i4 s s 08 70 085
70 Coke alternative,
inl old ails 60 1 62 63~m I
71 Concluson
opener 64 asn I S
72 Hoop holder o r1
73Livafuter "in" 1 1 1 1 1 1
74 Stranger " n"
DOWNC ByIn Naddor
-Po a()2ae9ibune Media Services, Ic. 02a3/0e
VDB in yesterday's puzzle was Victor David Brenner, who designed the Lncoln Head Cent-
His initials (circled inthe grid) were removed from the 1909 coin as a result of controversy
and then restored in 1918.

from SA B, $1
GREAT 2 B
tion. Heat/w
734-665-8825

WilsoWhit
611CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
( L pcale 5 betroom
ap artments, (6 /I
Curcfalj-ks p ore
nlcwls co c:rs-iacti..J
bedroom, 2.5 lath
f/i tte't hna/greits
ameinties, lice a
wacse rne] dr.)er in
unit!

4

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publcat
Rates: $4.30 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 per linefor eac
additional consecutive issue. e Frequency and Bulk contracts are
contact our staff for details R Students may receive a 25% discou
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organization
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing pri
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American I
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display advertising, plea
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5

1 2.9n 17 20

2 lines
3 lines
4 lines

21.50 2

ion Classification:
010 - Lost Found
h 020 - For Sale
available- 025 - Parking
ntwhen 030- Automotive
al, non- 040-ompaters
vileges 045 Tchnoogy
Express,
e alne 050 - Furniture
se call ona
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
days 080 - Services
25.80 090 - Help Wanted
38.70 093 - Summer Employment
51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
The liability of
pecified issue 123 - Websites
t insertion. TMD 125 - Music
of publication.
xtended at a 130 - Roommates
Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
e ad has not yet
tisements for 150 - Personal
er items prior to

25.80 32.25
39.40 43.00

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TID wil be accepted. Misprints:
TMD for falue to publsh an advertisement for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a s
shal be lmited to publshing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrec
wl'be responsible for classified advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates nes are consecutive insertions. An ad may be e
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date.
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadline, but no refund wil be given unless thr
been published. Refusal: All ads are subject to editing and approval We do not publish advert
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mal ord
accepting advertising.

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 13, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, February 13, 2009 - 7

Honduras union leaders discuss
Russell plant 'injustices' last night

Stimulus package
headed to House
for vote Friday

University has come
under fire for
licensing deal with
apparel company
By VANESSA NUNEZ
For the Daily
At an event last night, two union
leaders from Honduras spoke to a
group of students about the alleged
injustices they experienced work-
ing at a Russell Athletic apparel
plant.
The event, which was sponsored
by Students Organizing for Labor
and Economic Equality (SOLE),
comes on the heels of news that the
University's Advisory Committee
on Labor Standards and Human
Rights sent a letter to Kristen
Ablauf, director of licensing for the
University.
The letter called to the Universi-
ty's attention allegations of unjust
firing of employees at a Russell
plant in Honduras.
Last month, Russell athletic
apparel fired 1,800 workers from
its clothing factory in Honduras.
Russell claimed the factory closure
was due to economic reasons, but
Honduras union leaders alleged it
was their unionizing that caused
them to lose their jobs.
The plant's union president,
Moises Elias Montoya Alvarado,
and vice president, Norma Estella
Meija Castellanos, presented their
side of the story about the factory
closing and the injustices they
suffered as a result. Both spoke
in Spanish throughout the event,
and had translators convert their
words into English.
Alvarado said that when the
union requested a raise from Rus-
sell management, they responded
by offering them a raise of 3 cents
in U.S. dollars.
"We were shocked," Alvarado
said of the miniscule size of the
raise.
He said that when the union
refused to accept the raise, Russell.
management threatened to take
offers to move the factory to El Sal-
vador and Guatemala.

Senate likelyto vote
later today or
over the weekend
WASHINGTON (AP) - Reluc-
tant to call it quits, key lawmakers
bargained into overtime yesterday
on the $790 billion economic stimu-
lus legislation before reaching final
agreement more than 24 hours
after first announcing a deal.
Lingering controversy over
school-modernization money and
a scaled-back tax break for busi-
nesses forced a delay in final votes
on the legislation.
But by nightfall, with Democrat-
ic leaders eager for final passage
by the weekend, all issues were
reported settled. House leaders
announced a vote for today, with
the Senate to follow later in the day
or over the weekend.
Republicans, lined up to vote
against the bill, piled on the scorn.
"This is not the smart approach,"
said Sen. Mitch McConnell of Ken-
tucky, the Republican leader. "The
taxpayers of today and tomorrow
will be left to clean up the mess."
President Barack Obama deliv-
ered what has become a daily call
for congressional action, this time
from the industrial heartland.With
approval of the bill, he said in Peo-
ria, Ill., companies "may be able to
start growing again. Rather than
cutting jobs, they may be able to

create them again."
He spoke at Caterpillar Inc., the
heavy machinery giant that has
announced 22,000 layoffs. The
president has said in recent days the
company has promised to rescind
some of them once the stimulus
passes, but Chief Executive Jim
Owens said there probably would be
more layoffs before that can occur.
At the Capitol and in an atmo-
sphere of uncertainty, provisions
were coming to light that had not
been included in the original bills
that passed the House or Senate - or
that differed markedly from earlier
versions, or that appeared to brush
up against claims of the bill's sup-
porters that no pet projects known
as "earmarks" were included.
One last-minute addition was a
$3.2 billion tax break for General
Motors Corp. that would allow the
ailing auto giant to use currentlosses
to claim refunds for taxes paid when
times were good. GM got a $13.4 bil-
lion federal bailout late last year -
and is expected to receive more in
2009 --and argued that without the
provision, its government-financed
turnaround plan could force the
company to pay higher taxes.
The legislation does not mention
GM specifically, but the company has
been lobbying hard for the provision
for months, with help from Michi-
gan's representatives in Congress.
"We wanted to make sure that the
restructuring wasn't counteracted,"
said Rep. SanderM. Levin, D-Mich.

Honduran union leader Moises Elias Montoya Alvarado (right center) talks at an event last night in the Michigan League.

Holding a solid black Russell
sweatshirt, Alvarado said the
workers were required to meet
high quotas. But Alvarado said that
even if the workers hit such high
marks, "we only make 1,300 lempi-
ras, which in U.S. dollars would be
about $60 a week."
Alvarado said that when he
arrived in the United States
earlier this month as part of a
speaking tour to raise awareness
about Russell's alleged abuses,
he was stunned to see the price
of the goods they had been mak-
ing.
"When we came to this country
we were shocked to find the prices
students paid for this apparel," he
said, adding that the price of just
one of the shirts in the United
States equals their salary for one
week.
However, Alvarado said that
making more money was not the
point of his fight for justice.
"We are not asking for enormous
salaries," he said, "all our organiza-
tion is fighting for is dignity and a
fair wage in which we can support
our families."

As a result of their participation
in the unionization, Alvarado and
Castellanos began receiving con-
tinuous threats to their lives from
the company. Castellanos said she
was so terrified by the threats that
she told her kids that they couldn't
go to school one day.
The union leaders found they
couldn't even get cooperation
from their own government, since
many of the people who worked
in business there also worked for
the government. They decided
they needed to get international
help by going to the U.S. Congress
to denounce the negligence of the
Honduran government.
Since Russell has contracts with
the University of Michigan as well
as other universities, Alvarado and
Castellanos recognized the enor-
mous impact students on campus
could have in improving workers'
rights.
"Work of students in this is
totally fundamental in a number
of aspects; historically students
have been able to talk about these
abuses being done by corporate
monsters," he said. "Students can

demand that the company must
follow the code of conduct set forth
by the University."
Castellanos added: "We are
not here just to represent workers
from Honduras but workers from
all over the world putting up with
these kinds of abuses."
Students in attendance last night
said they felt it was very important
to understand the injustices in
Honduras.
LSA freshman Claire Baker said
she thought it was great to "have
people actually come here who
have experienced this, and once
you see the faces of the workers,
you can see it is real and you can
connect more with it."
LSA sophomore Britt Wede-
noja said she "thought it was very
beneficial to get the whole picture
from the ground floor, from their
point of view, it was very mov-
ing."
Both also said they hope that
this event will encourage Univer-
sity of Michigan President Mary
Sue Coleman to take the necessary
steps to ensure equal rights and
fair labor laws in Honduras.


FUNDING
From Page 1
Despite the budget cuts and
financial strains facing both the
University and the state, Sullivan
said she remains optimistic about
the University's ability to maintain
its high academic standards and
accessibility to students from all
economic backgrounds.
"In setting budget priorities, pro-
tecting the University's academic
mission - including recruiting
and retaining outstanding faculty
members - is at the forefront of
our decision-making. Making U-M
accessible to students also is one of
our top priorities," she said.
As the state's economic picture
has darkened and funding for high-
er education has dwindled, Sulli-
van wrote that the University has
worked to reduce expenditures.
"Although we have cut operat-
ing expenditures by more than $135
million during the past six years, we
must reduce expenses even more
to meet the financial challenges
ahead," she wrote.

In addition to these cost-cutting
measures, the University plans to
continue reducing expenses wher-
ever possible. However, one of its
major focuses has been increasing
the amount of financial aid avail-
able to students.
According to Sullivan, a com-
mittee comprised of faculty, staff
and students will work to find new
ways for the University to cut costs
in the year ahead. The committee
is scheduled to meet for the first
time in March and will seek input
and suggestions from students, fac-
ulty and staff.
Cuts to public school funding,
the state correctional system and
arts and culture programs were
also included in Granholm's budget
released yesterday. These cuts are
designed to combat the approxi-
mately $1.4 billion budget deficit
Michigan is expected to face in the
2010 fiscal year.
The cuts are expected to include
layoffs of 1,500 state employees,
the release of 4,000 non-violent
prison inmates and a $59 per pupil
reduction in spending at public
schools.


political views. A place where we
CONDOMS can actually distribute information
From Page 1 that is relevant to our customers."
S3 condones safe sex practices
"She saw that the problem was and wants to be sure that its custom-
that information wasn't getting ers know all the necessary informa-
out to people as it should be," Erica tion. On its website for example, the
Karmeisool said. "Her vision was to store also has a section devoted to
create a retail store where we don't condom information.
have to tailor information based on "If they have a pleasant expe-
'the michigan daily

rience using condoms they will
continue to do so, which increas-
es safety and decreases risk,"
Karmeisool said.
Karmeisool said the timing is per-
fect for the awareness week. It's right
after Valentine's Day, when sexual
healthisonthemind andrightbefore
spring break, when S3usually sees an
spike in condom sales.

"Our outlook is anticipating
more people purchasing condoms,
which opens the door to distribute
safety information," Karmeisool
said. "We will have signs out on the
streets to help promote National
Condom Week. Even if people just
stop in to ask about it, the hope is
that it will lead to further conver-
sation."


{ T
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
wmwbanna-,,,nanntmente snet

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M nap.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
he, wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
nude, semi-nude photography. No expe-
rience, Flexible hours, great pay. Must
be 18. For interview call 734-678-4181.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
S pus, flexihle hrs. Students, apply (a
telefund.omich.edu or 763.4400.
PANERA BREAD
Opening Soon
Now Hiring:
Hourly Associates
& Bakers
Panera Bread, one of America's fastest
growing restaurant chains has excellent
opportunities at our bakery-cafe open-
ing soon in Ann Arbor on N. Univer-
sity Ave. We offer premium pay for
full and part time shifts. FT associates
receive excellent benefits, 401(k) and
more. Apply on line at www.panera-
breadjobs, enter your zip code, click
on New bakery-cafe opening - Univer-
sity Ave. EOE

WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
U OF M Student Lab Assistant. Age-
ing Research. Mouse husbandry and
data collection. Holiday and weekend
availability needed. 10-15 hr/wk.
Contact Maggie 936-2164.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, Ml. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambeds@aol.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more inforna-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

For Saturday, Feb. 14, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Plans that you were originally excited
about in early January are now back in
action. Things will go forward with
much more energy and efficiency.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Ideas you presented to bosses, parents
and teachers early last month can now be
resurrected and given some considera-
tiu n nce again. Consider this a second
kick at the con.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Delayed travel plans and matters
related to education and training that
went by the wayside might get a
reprieve. See what you can do to save
these original intentions.
CANCER
(Jun 21 to July 22)
Discussions that took place in early
January about inheritances, shared prop-
erty and insurance matters are back on
the table. This time you might see how to
make it all happen.
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Plans and discussions that took place
in early January are now on the table
again. Do what you want to do; work
with the people you trust.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Your progress in something you
storted in early January will pick up ow.
(Iris applies to healthliaeacrs or any-
thing related to your job.
lItBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Vacation plans that might have been
tabled temporarily or something to do
with sports and dealing with children are
now back in action. This is encouraging
news!

SCORPtO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Ideas for repairs, along with certain
family discussions, were in your mind in
early January. However, since then
they've been somewhat sidetracked.
Today they will once again become a
strong consideration for you.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
A lot of business ideas and discussions
got sidetracked in the last five to six
weeks.tFrom Iere on, you have the green
lighti. It's all systems go.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Early last month you had some terrific
moneymaking ideas. However, some-
how they got stalled is the water. Now
it's time to return to them and see what
just might work.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 181
Today Mercury reurns to your sign,
where it started out early last month. (It's
been going backward!) Now everything
is back on track, and five planets are in
Aquarius. Yowsers.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Increasingly, secret activities are tak-
ing place in yournsign. Not only are you
not telling anyone anything, you're even
acting in the dark.
YOU BORN TODAY You're a master
of words. Some of your one-liners are
famous as finny clips or sarcastic put-
downs. That's because you love in joko,
and seine of yoru even like practicul
jokes. You love to provoke others. This
year you will wrap up something you've
been involved with for the past nine
years in order to make room for some-
thing new.
Birthdate of: Pat O'Brien, TV host;
Rob Thomas, musician; Rende Fleming,
soprano.

DINGELL
From Page 1
right, not a privilege."
"Quality of health care should
not be determined by (income),
but what our society is able to
provide our doctors or medical
establishments." Benson said.
"Unfortunately, many people are
not able to get (quality health
care), and the Congressman
thinks that could be changed
and improved on with a national
health care plan."
Dingell will be accompanied by
Chris Jennings, health care adviser
to former President Bill Clinton.
"(Jennings) will be explaining
the history of this matter and also
addressing the technical matters,"
Dingell said.
Dingell said the event is "geared
to anyone who wants to come and
listen to see one of the things I do
and to keep everyone informed
LSA-SG
From Page 1
the election. The proposed party
must contain at least half the num-
ber of candidates (rounded up) for
all positions open in the election..
No party may run more candidates
than there are seats available."
Zaikis's original announcement
came after weeks of internal dis-
cussions with the executive board
- made up of the president, vice
president, treasurer, counsel, exter-
nal relations officer, academic rela-
tions officer and secretary - but not
the entirety of the LSA-SG body.
After Tuesday's meeting, Zaikis
said the executive board's inten-
tion was to promote a system in
which issues are the focus of the
election, not parties. The idea was
that candidates who run with a
party are identified more with
being part of that party.than with
the issues they are campaigning

with the major issues in Washing-
ton."
He hopes to answer as many
questions as he can during the
event, which will start at 1 p.m.
on Monday in the School of Public
Health auditorium.
Nathaniel Eli Coats Styer, chair
of the University's chapter of Col-
lege Democrats, said Dingell's talk
is coming at an important time.
With the economy struggling, par-
ticularly in Michigan, Styer said a
national health care program is a
necessity.
Styer said the event would be
a special opportunity for stu-
dents given Dingell's record as
the longest-serving United States
Representative, having served
more than 19,420 days. Dingell
just broke the previous record
Wednesday.
"We are excited every time Din-
gell comes to campus," Styer said.
"He is very enthusiastic and a close
friend of ours."
on behalf of, she said.
In an interview this week, Reis-
inger said that's exactly the oppo-
site of what being in a party does.
"Parties are how we get diversity.
This is how we get diverse constit-
uents on government, by allowing
parties, because parties will go out
and do all the outreach that people
don't have time to do," Reisinger
said. "Government attracts the
same type of people, and so if you're
not purposefully outreaching dif-
ferent groups of people, by elimi-
nating parties, you're eliminating
diversity."
Steven Benson, the counsel for
LSA-SG, said that on Tuesdaynight,
LSA-SG leaders encouraged people
to run on independent tickets, as
opposed to telling them that parties
are outlawed. He said that knowing
this, the executive board is acting
accordingly.
"We're open for parties to run,"
Benson said. "We're allowing it to
happen. The bylaws call for it."


40

8 - Friday, February 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I

SI's Davis: Michigan
tourney hopes still alive

For the first time since 1998,
the Michigan men's bas-
ketball team will make the
NCAA tournament.
Well, that's according to Sports
Illustrated's Seth Davis. The col-
lege basketball writer features a
weekly column, "Inside College
Basketball," and is a studio analyst
during CBS's
NCAA Tourna-ALEX
ment coverage.
"Right now, PROSPERI
they're on my On Mven's
board," Davis Basketball
said during a
teleconference Feb. 11to promote
his partnership with Coke Zero.
"They're probably going to be one
of my last teams in, certainly. But
right now, I have them in."
Davis was in Indianapolis on
Wednesday to participate in a
mock selection seminar for the
NCAA Tournament. The real
Selection Sunday is March 15. Of
the 65 spots, 31 are automatic bids
awarded to conference tournament
champions, while the other 34 are
at-large bids.
He pinned upset wins against
UCLA and Duke as keys to the
Wolverines' chances of dancing in
March.
"They're going to hang on to
that (UCLA) win and the win over
Duke at home for all it's worth,"
Davis said. "There are not going to
be a lot of teams in that situation
that are goingto have those quality
wins."
The Blue Devils are No. 6 and
the Bruins are No. 11, and the bet-
ter they play, the stronger Michi-
gan's wins will look.
"You give me 34 at-large teams
that are more worthy," Davis said.
"When you get to those last few
spots, you're really looking at some
very flawed resumes."
But how much stock can you put
in two games? Sure, both teams
were ranked No. 4 at the time, but
they both have one glaring weak-
ness - post presence. Defending
the paint has been one of Michi-
gan's biggest problems all season,

Sophomore Manny Harris and the Wolverines areonthe NCAA Tournamentbubble.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Carl Hagelin will skate in front his father Boris this weekend as Michigan takes on Nebraksa-Omaha.
Sophomore finds comfort in
father's visit from Sweden

and if there were any highly-
ranked teams that could fall to
the Wolverines, it would be those
two. Plus, both games came before
conference play, when most teams
often hit their stride.
Michigan can point to those
two games as reasons to receive a
bid, but the Wolverines need to do
more.
Ultimately, Michigan's poor
road record night be the reason
they're in the National Invitation
Tournament in March. The Wol-
verines are an impressive 12-3 at
home, but just 1-6 on the road with
a 2-1 record at neutral sites. Their
lone road victory came against
lowly Indiana, who is 1-10 in the
Big Ten.
If Michigan (5-7 Big Ten, 15-10
overall) doesn't improve its play on
the road, it will find itselfaoutside
the tournament bubble. There are
two must-win road games left, and
the first is this Sunday when the
Wolverines take on Northwestern
(4-6,13-8) at Welsh-Ryan Arena in
Evanston.
The Wolverines have three more
games after Sunday's to rack up
more road wins - Iowa on Feb. 22
(another must-win), Wisconsin on
Mar. 1 and Minnesota a week later.
But to impress the NCAA Tour-
nament Selection Committee, wins
at Northwestern and Iowa won't
cut it. Michigan must win its regu-
lar-season finale against the Gold-
en Gophers, the final ranked team
the Wolverines face on the road. If

they lose, they'll be left without an
impressive road win.
And the work doesn't end there,
as Michigan must put on a strong
performance at the Big Ten Tour-
nament. The conference tourna-
ment is the last opportunity for
bubble teams to make their case
for the Big Dance. Last season, No.
10 Illinois, whose only shot at the
NCAA Tournament was to win
the conference title, made it to the
championship game before falling
to No. 1 Wisconsin.
Like the Illini, Michigan will
have to make a run during the
weekend. Michigan would be the
No. 8 seed if the tournament start-
ed today, meaning it would have to
win a game on Thursday to play in
the quarterfinals on Friday. Both
games are must-win. An early exit
will diminish whatever success
the Wolverines have over the next
three weeks.
The fact that Davis put Michi-
gan in his mock bracket shows he
is confident that Michigan will
finish strong. But he should be
cautious. There's little reason to
believe the Wolverines will make
a run in these last six games. They
squandered a golden opportunity -
to impress the Selection Commit-
tee when they lost 54-42 to Michi-
gan State on Tuesday, and have
lost seven of their last nine games.
But ifnthey can go as far as Illi-
nois in the Big Ten Tournament,
then Davis's prediction may come
true.

I

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
At the end of Tuesday's hockey
practice, Michigan sophomore
Carl Hagelin walked off the ice,
saw his father in the bleachers
and called out to him in his native
Swedish.
Standing close to Hagelin as
he conversed with his dad, senior
forward Danny Fardig tried to
mimic his teammate.
After a couple of attempts, Far-
dig gave up with a smile, and the
father and son continued making
plans for the evening.
Boris, Hagelin's dad, has been
in town visiting from Hagelin's
hometown of Sodertalje, Sweden,
since last Thursday. Lastweekend,
he watched the Wolverines sweep
Lake Superior State, and he'll be
in the stands again tonight as they
take on Nebraska-Omaha.
And when Boris is around, it
usually bodes well for Michigan
- or at least his son. Last Satur-
day, Hagelin tallied the game-
tying goal with 28 seconds left
in the first period to swing the
momentum in Michigan's favor.
The Wolverines eventually won
the game, 2-1.
It's hard to quantify, but the
Michigan coaching staff agrees:
Hagelin plays better when his

father is in town. That could be
a good omen for this weekend's
series against the Mavericks (8-9-
7-3 CCHA, 13-11-7 overall).
"Some kids put too much pres-
sure on themselves when their
parents are here to really show
them what they can do," Wolver-
ine assistant coach Mel Pearson
said. "Obviously, in his situation,
it's different. He doesn't feel that
pressure to have to perform. It just
encourages him.... We might have
to get (Boris) to live over here per-
manently if that's the case."
Boris normally flies to Ann
Arbor about four times each year
for ten-day trips, during which he
stays with Hagelin and his room-
mate, sophomore forward Louie
Caporusso.
"It's me, him and Boris, the
three amigos," Caporusso said.
"He made us steak Monday night.
Unbelievable. Filet mignon, and
he made us mashed potatoes and
a nice salad with avocado. ... My
stomach's been well-nourished
since Boris has gotten here, for
sure."
Caporusso said they also like to
go to the movies together, adding
that the three of them recently saw
Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa at the
Dollar Movies at Briarwood Mall.
Hagelinsaidhis father alsokeeps
him and Caporusso in order. The

two rushed to clean up their apart-
ment last Wednesday evening, the
night before Boris flew in.
Despite the added chores,
Hagelin enjoys having his father
around. And even though Boris
attends practice each day when
he's in Ann Arbor and has previ-
ous coaching experience, he said
he hardly discusses hockey with
his son because Hagelin doesn't
like it.
"That's just something me
and my dad stopped doing when
I turned 17," Hagelin said. "He
used to talk alot about hockey. We
just stopped talking about hockey
because I can't think too much
about it. Still, he talks about hock-
ey everyday with my other broth-
ers, so he'll get his hockey talk in
every day."
Caporusso explained that each
player treats hockey differently.
Some like analyzing their play off
of the ice, but others prefer dis-
tancing themselves. Hagelin is one
of the latter.
"Carl doesn't like to think about
hockey too much during the week,"
Caporusso said. "When he's away
from the rink, he likes to stay away
from the rink. When he gets to the
rink, he gets pretty excited."
With his father in the stands,
Hagelin has even more of a reason
to be fired up tonight.

Why 'A'is worth your time

4

This Sunday will be the
44th anniversary of the
day that Canada adopted
the Maple Leaf flag. What are
your plans for honoring that
country on that day? A themed
party? Traveling north? Watch-
ing CBC?
Didn't think so.
But if celebrating Canadian
heritage is
something
that strikes CHANTEL
your fancy, JENNINGS
perhaps ---e -
you should OnWoa en's
consider B
attending the Michigan women's
basketball game against Min-
nesota.
Senior Stephany Skrba and
junior Krista Phillips, both native
Canadians, will be playing at Cris-
ler Arena this Sunday.
Still not sold on coming?
Well, how about the fact that
this Sunday is probably the last
chance you'll have to watch the
Wolverines play this year? Their
only remaining home game is
during Spring Break.
And trust me, despite its 10-14
record, this is a talented team
that you'll want to see play. Mich-
igan has beaten two top-25 teams
this year and nearly toppled a
third. Each game, it seems like
another player comes out of the

4

woodwork for Michigan.
Will freshman Courtney Boy-
lan drop 18 like she did against
Kentucky? Is freshman Carmen
Reynolds going to follow up her
20-point performance against
Penn State with something equal-
ly thrilling? How many threes
will senior Carly Benson hit?
You might think, why do I care
about the Golden Gophers?
Wolverine point guard Jessica
Minnfield will be taking on her
counterpart in Minnesota's point
guard Emily Fox. Minnfield,
Michigan's starting court gener-
al, will have her hands full with
Fox's quickness. Not only is Fox
a WNBA prospect, but she also
holds the world record in cup
stacking, which is actually a real
sport. Confused? Check out you-
tube.com or just come Sunday.

............ Ve" r w ....... ....- t, t.. f tw .r°'.F .. -. ss , w.F ...
* 20125 Ann Arbor Trail at Evergreen I Dearborn Hts. 1600 N. Telegraph across from summit Mall Pontiac
.1410 E. Michigan atMichigan & Harris I Ypsilanti s345 N. Maple in Maple village ! Ann Arbor
025646 8 Mile at Beet-alyI Southfield 033955 Gratiot between 14&1 Mile Clinton Twp.
2001 11 Mile cornerof Dequindre Warren 022615 Ecorse in sunrise ctr I Taylor
34460 Ford east of Wayne I Westland o24900 Kelly aio Mile East Pointe
022150 Coolidge at 9 Mile Oak Park 08300 Woodward* I Detroit
12125 Dix between Northiine& oddard i Southgate
All stores EXCEPT DetroitlWoodward open: Mon - Sat 9am - 9pm; Sun 11am - 6pm
*DetroitWoodward open: Mon - Sat Sam - 8pm; Sun 1tam - 6pm
---% o f f-. --------------------. - - - -- -- -
ENTE IE
PP/C00E

- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROCESS
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,.
FRANCE
May 18-June 12,2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Sat es the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Tuesday, Febr ry 17, 5:00pm,Art & Architecture Bldg. Room2
Wednes y, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making creativity an integral part of students' lives 'and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
RS
osc asts
Thsr rairse is srppsrted by Othe Unvrity ofMichigae's MulidiscipiierysLernirgeandTeamTesbig Inimiaeivee

If you heckle her enough, maybe
she'll show you.
Are you intrigued yet?
Consider the fact that Michi-
gan coach Kevin Borseth is the
most animated coach in the Big
Ten. Each game, he paces up and
down the sideline shouting at the
players, refs and assistant coach-
es - sometimes even turning his
head toward the heavens.
But you've got to hand it to
him. He knows what he's doing.
In the past 18 years, teams he has
coached have been to 17 post-
season tournaments. He knows
what it takes to turn a mediocre
program into a championship
contender. Even John Wooden
didn't turn UCLA into a basket-
ball powerhouse overnight.
Still not convinced?
This Sunday's game is the Wol-
verines' Pink Zone Game. The
Pink Zone Game is part of the
Women's Basketball Coaches
Association's initiative to raise
breast cancer awareness and
support.
The Wolverines are work-
ing towards earning $20,000
for the University of Michigan
Women's Health Program.
At this Sunday's game, "Pink
Zone" T-shirts will be sold for
$10, and everyone at the game
wearing pink willzbe entered in
a raffle to win prizes. The play-
ers will even wear pink uni-
forms, which will be auctioned
off during the game.
What else are you doing on
Sunday?
Between the Canadians,
Borseth, the show of talent and
the charitable cause of this
game, you have no reason not to
be there. So, on Sunday, trade in
yourhomework for aticket, your
mnaize and blue for pink, and
even if you're not Canadian, con-
sider celebrating at Crisler. Eh?

4

I

4


