iC4ioa1T 4,3a....tlm

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, September 23, 2009

michigandaily.com

NETWORKING CONNECTIONS

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Prof's stem
cell trial gets
FDA's OK

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
About 6,000 students and recruiters from 181 companies mingle in the Duderstadt Center during the Engineering Career Fair on Monday and TuesdayH
EATING 0 N CAMPUS
HillDiningC's crowd problem

Landmark research
will test new
Lou Gehrig's
Disease treatment
By VALIANT LOWITZ
Daily StaffReporter
In a major victory for propo-
nents of stem cell research, the
U.S. Food and Drug Administra-
tion approvedthe first-ever human
clinical trial of a stem cell treat-
ment for Lou Gehrig's Disease last
Friday. The study will be lead by a
University of Michigan expert in
the field.
Dr. Eva Feldman, the director
of both the U-M Amyotrophic Lat-
eral Sclerosis (ALS) Clinic and the
Program for Neurology Research
and Discovery, helped develop the
treatment and will act as principal
investigator for the landmark trial.
Feldman worked with a team
of neurologists to develop the new
protocol for injecting stem cells
into the spinal chord of patients.
This system, researchers hope, will
reconnect severed lines of com-
munication between the cells of
paralyzed ALS patients and delay
or reverse some of the disease's
effects.
In an interview yesterday, Feld-

man discussed the study and what
lies ahead for her team of research-
ers.
ALS, commonly known as Lou
Gehrig's Disease, is a progressive
neural degenerative disorder that
affects roughly 30,000 Americans,
according to the ALS Association.
About 5,600 people in this coun-
try are diagnosed with the disease
every year - or 15 new cases every
day.
The disease affects nerve cells
in the brain leading to the degen-
eration of motor neurons in the
spinal chord. The patient eventu-
ally loses control of all voluntary
muscle movement. Cognitive func-
tions are usually left undamaged.
Notable figures suffering from
ALS include renowned physicist
Stephen Hawking and musician
Jason Becker.
"Currently ALS is a fatal neuro-
degenerative disease," said Feld-
man. "The only available treatment
is medication given by mouth."
Though these medications
slow the progression of the dis-
ease, Feldman said, they may only
increase survival by around three
to five months.
The clinical treatment injects
stem cells directly into the spinal
cord, protecting at-risk motor neu-
rons and potentially rebuilding
severed connections.
See STEM CELLS, Page 7A

700 seats meant to
accomodate more
than 3,000 residents
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily Staff Reporter
Waiting to get food at the Hill
Dining Center in Mosher-Jordan
Hall can be a long process.

During prime dining hours -
from 12-1 p.m. and 5-6 p.m. - the
line to enter the dining center can
extend up the stairs that lead to
the dining hall. And once inside,
students say finding a seat can be
an even more demanding task.
For example, LSA sophomore
Emily Bozeksaid she triesto avoid
the cafeteria's peak hours because
the food lines can be a pretty big
hassle.

"When I see a long line I usu-
ally just don't go in it," she said.
"It really affects what I eat. When
I see a line for the regular food
that's going out the door I just
go and make myself a sandwich
because I don't have time."
The cause of the bottleneck?
The obvious answer is the sheer
number of students living near
the dining center, which, after the
University stopped serving meals

in the Couzens and Alice Lloyd
Residence Halls, is one of the only
cafeterias left in that area.
Peter Logan, director of Hous-
ing Communications, said the
dining center was built to accom-
modate about 640 people in the
larger dining area and an addi-
tional 70 people can find seating
in the dining area upstairs around
the Victors plaza - so room for
See DINING CENTER, Page 3A


LGHTS OUT
Squirrel starts power outage

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA considers health care help

Many campus
buildings left in dark
yesterday evening
By MATT AARONSON
Daily News Editor
A power outage that swept cam-
pus yesterday evening was brought
on by an unlikely culprit.
Most University buildings on
the Central and Medical Campuses
were left in the dark just after 6 p.m.
yesterday when a squirrel shorted
a transformer at the University's
Central Power Plant, according
o Department of Public Safety
Spokeswoman Diane Brown.
Throughout yesterday night,
the Daily received reports of out-

ages in the following buildings:
Shapiro Library, Hatcher Graduate
Library, the University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art, Michigan
Union, C.C. Little, South Quad,
West Quad, Angell Hall, the LSA
Building, Tisch Hall, the School
of Education, the School of Social
Work, the Ross School of Business
and the Dennison Building.
The outages lasted anywhere
from a few minutes to hours,
Brown said.
"Often when electricity is lost,
depending on how the circuits
are impacted, it can sometimes ...
reboot easily and in other cases it
may affect a fuse or something,"
she said.
Aslate as9:30p.m.lastnight,some
buildings were still without power,
including the School of Education

Building, accordingtoBrown.
LSA sophomore Kendra Furry
said she was in an English class
on the ground floor of Angell Hall
when the power went out.
"Wewere allsortofweirdedout,"
she said. "The teacher went to look
for another classroom we could go
in but the lights were all out."
Furry said the class was moved
outside, but had to be ended early
since the teacher needed a chalk-
board.
Naomi Makofsky, president of
Michigan Advertisement and Mar-
keting, was leading a mass meeting at
the Union when the lightswentoff.
"We continued in the dark," she
said. "Everyone stayed."
She said power in the Union
came on after about 15 or 20
minutes.

Assembly also
addresses budget
woes, homecoming
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily News Editor
A resolution was presented to
the assembly last night to support
U.S. Senate legislation that would
provide health care assistance to
students.

The legislation, drafted by the
Senate Committee on Health Edu-
cation Labor and Pensions, would
allow individu-
als to remain on NOTEBOOK
their parents'
health care plans until the age 26.
If the resolution passes, MSA
willeducate the studentbody about
the legislation during an MSA Diag
Day and will provide students with
resources to write their represen-
tatives in Congress.
"(The legislation is) impor-

tant for students in this economy
because it's hard to find a job,
especially one that provides health
care," said LSA Rep. Chris Arm-
strong, who authored the reso-
lution with Business Reps. Alex
Serwer and Jason Raymond.
The resolution stated that indi-
viduals from ages 19 to 29 make
up the largest group of uninsured
individuals in the country, which
the authors said makes the legisla-
tion a significant issue for college
See MSA, Page 3A

STICKS AND STONES

BAR FIGHT
Altercation at Charley's leaves one
in emergency, another man injail

With knife drawn,
man misses target,
stabs bystander
By JACOB SMILOVITZ
ManagingNews Editor
Just before 1:15 a.m. early yes-
terday morning, a fight broke out
at Good Time Charley's that ended
with one bystander being sent to
the hospital with "superficial" stab
Uwounds and another man in police

custody.
The fight began between two
men who were standing inside the
popular bar located on South Uni-
versity Avenue, according to Lieu-
tenant Myron Blackwell of the Ann
Arbor Police Department.
As the two people fought, a knife
was pulled at some point which
didn't appear to scare the other
person in the fight who was "obvi-
ously not afraid of the guy with the
knife," Blackwell said.
After the knife was drawn, the
second person said something

along the lines of "get that knife out
of here," Blackwell said.
The first person then made a
move with the knife that, as Black-
well describes, apparently missed
the second person, but struck a
third person in the chest causing
"very superficial wounds."
Thethirdperson,whowas"total-
ly not related to anything" accord-
ing to Blackwell, is not believed to
have played any role in the original
fight. That person is expected to be
treated and released from the hos-
See CRIME, Page 7A

Members of the Groove percussion group including Kinesiology freshman Eric Harbour (left), Engineering senior Patricia
Schuster (center) and LSA freshman Griffin Working (right) practice last night in the Regents' Plaza.


WEATHER HI: 78
TOMORROW m; Lo: 56

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ............................2A CLASSIFIEDS. ..hA
September is local foods month. Time to go local. Vol. CXX, No.12 OPINION ....,................... 4A SPO RT. ....8A
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE 02009The Michigan Daily ARTS ........... I.....A THE STATEM ENT.... ......,......11
michigondaily coo ""


4

2A - Wednesday, September 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY: EDEDA: THURSDAY:
Off the Beaten Path Cmu lb Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

150 years of singing

With a history extending
hack to 1859, the Men's Glee
lob is the oldest continually
run student organization at
the University.
"at formed mainly at first
not necessarily as a singing
group but as more of a social
group," Glee Club President
Drew Smith said. "But at the
same time, singing was a big
part of it."
Smith said the club was ini-
tially a loose arrangement of
both vocals and instrumen-
tals but eventually evolved
into a more structured cho-
rus. Now it stands alongside
Harvard's Glee Club as one
of the most prestigios of its
type in the United States.
The club is comprised of
four vocal sections and cur-
rently has 103 members. The
group performs repertoires

chosen by Director Paul Ear-
din, who is also an associ-
ate professor in the School
of Music, Theatre '& Dance,
with music selections vary-
ing from folk songs to Latin
Renaissance pieces.
The club rehearses twice a
week and performs every fall
and spring at Mill Auditorium.
In addition, it tours the state
of Michigan and the Midwest
twice a year and internation-
ally every four years.
"We've been to every con-
tinent except for Africa on
our tours," Smith said. "So
we're pretty well traveled as
a group."
For its 150th anniversary,
the club plans to celebrate by
premiering a piece commis-
sioned from former faculty
member William Bolcom. The
group plans to invite Glee

Club alumni to a celebration
weekend in the spring.
Maintaining connections
with alumni is an important
part of the Glee Club.
"One thing that's great
about the Glee Club is that
you get such a strong alumni
base. We'll talk to people
from 20, 30 years ago," said
Joe Wieciek, the assistant
alumni relations manager
and co-150th anniversary
coordinator.
Wieciek also said the group
is trying to create an alumni
tour group to further main-
tain the alumni bond.
As part of its 150th celebra-
lion, the Glee Club is set to
perform Nov. 21 at Hill Audi-
torium featuring an Ameni-
can-themed repertoire.
- ALEXtTY RScENBttvArUM

PHOTOCOUReTtSY MtN'SOGLEE CLot
Members at the Mes's Glee Glob perform durint a dress rehearsol tar the
grasp'sSprng 2009 concert.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109-t327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GEACA DAN NEWMVAkN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-05ts
graca@michigasdoiy.com tmdbusiness@gmai.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hoursn-Thurs. 1.m. - 2 a.
News Tips news@michigandaily.omn
torrectiots crrections@michigandaily.omn
Lettersto the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily~ow
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com,
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.cor,
Editorial Pate opinion@michigandaily.comn
Sports Sectiot spors@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@m~ichigandaily.com,
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Otline Sales onlineadspmichiandaily.com
Fitance finnce,@michigandaily.conm
EDITORIAL STAFF
toutey Ratkowiak Managingtditor ratkowiak@michigandailyaom
Jacob SnilotitZ MaagngsNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com,
SENIOR NEWS EDIsOS: MattAaon,,,,,JillianBrm,, Trevr,, aeroJn,
ASSISTANT sEWS EDIOR :ios ,le AberMllorJoe, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, EshwarOhirunavkkarasu
Robert Soate tditorialPae tditor saveo@mirhigandaily.conm
ASSOCIAnTEITORI AEEDIToOlRS:Emily Brto,ianFahrRelss Va,, n Gs~ilde
Atdy Reid Manain SportsEditor reid@michigandaily.conm
505100R500RSLEDITORS:Nicole Aerbac,,Hike Eisestesin, Ian ayR.u0h
Kar, Chris Meao, Ran Podges
David Wattick MaoaioeArtditor watnick@ihiandilyon,
5SNIORTS DTOnS: Jai Block,randn Conradi,,'WhitneyPow
ASISAsNATSEDTORS:oJosa Bayr,,Caolrns Olsoki, AndrewLapin, David Rje
Zachary Meisner and phoo@aicsiandoitlrrzon
Ciftleeder Managintrhoto Editors
SENI00 PHOTO EDIORS:5sid A1sah, anl on a~sburgLothringen
ASSISTA5T eHnOOoITaO~S:axCollins,,Chris Doa, Samoson
Angelatbhihand designwichigandaily.com
Maureen Stych MangingePhototEditors
Jessica Vosgerchian Moagaine tditonrvosgerchian@michigan~daily.com
Ktatherne Mitchtell topyrthief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOrIAnE OPCIEF:elanie Fied, Adi Wsteain
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lonsiak Ss Manager
SALES FORC MAER: Mollyt5 rnwigg
Ryan Businski ClassifiedManagr
CLASSIED SSsISrANT MANAGER: KalaLaeat
Ben Etglishrroducion Mnager
Allison SantacrelayorouMnaer
Vivian Lerinance Managr.
Brittany MoralestCirrulationsManager
Brad Wiley ProjectCoordinaoro
Th MihianDaiy(ISSN5-%)s pblihdoanday thuh Fiday during th fllad nter
termsbystudnsat heUneshnityociga. ne o swavalablefreeof care tall rades.
Addtoalcopies my bpiikd ptthe Diys ofie fr2.Sbsriptosfralter, artngn
Setembear, ia U.S. mail aet$11. Wisnte erIJanuarythough Apri) i$15, yealon Stember~
throghAprls 1195. Uniersityafflits are subjctto aSedud subscrhiptioate.nOn-camopus
sbsciptnf arbli term aet$3. Sbsciptos must berpai.The Mihigantgai snameber o
TherociatdPrsand TheooAssitdaCogae res.

CRIME NOTES
Nearly a half ton Bike goes missing

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Oi ontrutiUonUI
equipment taken
WHERE: 2900 Block Baxter
WHEN: Monday at about 8
WHAT: Sometime between
Saturday and Monday, an
800 lb. "piece of breaking
equipment" was taken from a
construction site, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.
Sign pole down
WHERE: University parking
lot, Catherine St.
WHEN: Monday at about 3:45
p.m.
WHAT: A caller told DPS
that someone hit and damaged
a sign pole, University Police
reported.

WHERE: East Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about S
p.m.
WHAT: A "Diamondback
purple bike" that had been
parked on a bike rack near
East Quad was stolen between
Sunday and Monday, Univer-
sity Police reported. There are
no suspects.
'Unknown' thief
steals laptop
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Monday at about 8:15
p.m.
WHRAT: An Apple laptop and
a wallet that had been left
unattended were stolen "by an
unknown person," University
Police reported.


Med. Service
mass meeting
WHAT: Medical Educational
Service Opportunities will
hold a mass meeting
WHO: Medical Educational
Service Opportunities
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 7 p.m. and from 7:30 p.m to
8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Kuenzel Room
Career Center
hosts Law Day
WHAT: A chance for stu-
dents at all grade levels to
connect with more than 100
different law schools.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 4 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
.Second floor

AMI coffee talk
WHAT: Free coffee and
a discussion on President
obama's call for a settlement
freeze in the West Bank.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 8t p.m.
WHERE: Amer's on State
Street
CORRECTIONS
. A story in yesterday's edi-
tion of The Michigan Daily
"'U' officials crack down on
trademark violations" incor-
rectly defined two types of
student organizations. A
sponsored student organiza-
tion is one that has a sub-
stantial relationship with
a University department.
Also, both, sponsored and
voluntary student organiza-
tions are eligible for MSA
funding.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1A woman from Browns-
ville, Texas was arrested
last week for giving a lap
dance to a man at a cantina, the
Brownsville Herald reported.
The woman was reported to
having been "moving her body
up and down simulating sexual
intercourse."
2The Athletic Depart-
ment, in conjunction
with the Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly, will hold a pep
rally for the football team on
Friday at Crisler Arena.
>>FOR MORE, SEE
MICHIGANDAILYCOM/THE GAME
3 The principal of Millburn
High in New Jersey said
hundreds of copies of a
"slot list" of incoming fresh-
man are passed out on the first
day of each school year, The
New York Times reported.
Each year, some girls are upset
their names appear on it, others
that theirs are missing.

MORE ONLINE
LvCrime Ntes? Get mare enlist at michigandaily.cm/blgs/he wire,.,


t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 23, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, Sephember 23, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
GM raising output
at three factories
General Motors Co. will go to
24-hour operations at factories in
Kansas, Michigan and Indiana to
handle an expected increase in
demand and to make up for produc-
tion lost from a large-scale factory
consolidation announced earlier in
the year.
The automaker says it will add
a third shift at its Fairfax plant in
Kansas City, Kan., in January. That
will be followed in March or April
by third shifts at factories in Delta
Township, Mich., near Lansing, and
Fort Wayne, Ind.
About 2,400 production work-
ers will be recalled as a result of the
added shifts, and another 600 will
be recalled at parts factories across
the country, said Tim Lee, group vice
president for global manufacturing.
The increases announced yester-
day, coupled with other production
increases unveiled during the sum-
mer, will allow GM to raise North
American production from about 1.9
million vehicles this year to 2.8 mil-
lion in 2010, Lee said.
LOS ANGELES
Hundreds of cops
coordinate assault
on L.A. street gang
A notorious street gang accused of
terrorizing a neighborhood for years
and killing a sheriff's deputy was the
target of a coordinated assault by
hundreds of law enforcement offi-
cials yesterday.
Local police working with federal
agents carried out a string of early-
morning raids seeking key members
of the Avenues street gang, a long-
standing group that claims as its
territory a swath of northeast Los
Angeles. About 90 suspects were
named in a massive federal rack-
eteering indictment detailing crimi-
nal activity spanning more than a
decade.
Officers in full body armor were
seen at dawn yesterday at a blocked-
off staging area at the Dodger Stadi-
um parking lot, where suspects were
being processed at a portable book-
ing area.
NEW YORK
Pbama urges Israeli,
&Palestinian sides to
'find a way' forward
Pressing for elusive Mideast
'peace, President Barack Obama on
'yesterday challenged Israeli and
tlPalestinians leaders to do more, say-
ing it was time to "find a way for-
ward." It was the president's most
'direct engagement yet on a problem
that has vexed leaders for years.
In a moment deep in symbolism
but offering little expectation of any
immediate breakthrough, Obama
brought together Israeli Prime Min-
ister Benjamin Netanyahu and Pal-
estinian President Mahmoud Abbas
for their first three-way meeting.
- Obama's words as the meeting got
under way showed frustration with
the looming gap between the two

sides as the U.S. again tries to foster
a deal.
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras
Deposed Honduran
president holed up in
Brazilian embassy
Baton-wielding soldiers used tear
gas and water cannons to chase away
thousands who demonstrated out-
side the Brazilian embassy, leaving
deposed President Manuel Zelaya
and 70 friends and family trapped
inside without water, electricity or
phones.
"We know we are in danger,"
Zelaya said during interviews with
various media outlets yesterday. "We
are ready to risk everything, to sac-
rifice."
Heavily armed soldiers stood
guard on neighboring rooftops and
helicopters buzzed overhead.
Zelaya, forced out ofhis country at
gunpoint, triumphantly popped up
in the capital on Monday, telling cap-
tivated supporters that after three
months of international exile and a
w secretive 15-hour cross country jour-
ney, he was ready to lead again.
Interim President Roberto
Micheletti's response was terse:
initially he said Zelaya was lying
about being there, and then - after
Zelaya appeared on national tele-
'vision - Micheletti pressed Brazil
to hand Zelaya over so he could be
arrested under a warrant issued by
the Supreme Court chargingtreason
and abuse of authority.
- Compiled from
tDaty wire reports

China vows action on climate threat

In first U.N. speech,
Obama says
United States is
"determined to act"
China laid down a significant
plan for curbing greenhouse gases
yesterday, outlining ambitious goals
of planting enough forest to cover an
area the size of Norway and gener-
ating 15 percent of its energy needs
from renewable sources within a
decade.
Chinese President Hu Jintao
also promised at the opening of the
United Nations climate summit that
the communist nation would take
"determined and practical steps"
to boost its nuclear energy, improve
energy efficiency and reduce "by
a notable margin" the growth rate
of its carbon pollution as measured
against economic growth.
Experts were watching the Chi-
nese closely because it had in the
past largely ignored global efforts
to diminish emissions. The goals Hu
outlined also were held in contrast to
the United States, where the Senate

hasyet to take up climate legislation
and likely will not have produced a
new law by the time world leaders
gather this December in Copenha-
gen, Denmark, to negotiate a treaty
to replace the 1997 Kyoto pact.
"At stake in the fight against cli-
mate change are the common inter-
ests of the entire world," Hu said.
"Out of a sense of responsibility to
its own people and people across the
world, China fully appreciates the
importance and urgency of address-
ing climate change."
But China and some other
major fast-developing econo-
mies will not agree to binding
greenhouse-gas cuts. Developing
nations "should not ... be asked
to take on obligations that go
beyond their development stage,"
Hu said. Beijing wants to link
emissions to growth in gross
domestic product, meaning itnstill
may increase emissions even as it
takes fundamental steps to curb
them in the long run.
Much attention also was fixed on
U.S. President Barack Obama's first
U.N. speech, where he said the Unit-
ed States is "determined to act."
"The threat from climate change

SETH WENIG/AP
Chinese President Hu Jintao addresses the sumnit on climate change at the United Nations headquarters in New York yesterday.
is serious, it is urgent, and it is grow- China's more specific ambitions accelerate the pace of negotiations
ing," Obama said, after receiving topped the lofty speechmaking as and to strengthen the ambition of
loud applause. "And the time we U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki- what is on offer" for a new global cli-
have to reverse this tide is running moon called on presidents, prime mate pact at Copenhagen, Denmark
out" ministers and other leaders "to in December.



Learnmor e0 0auu L ereace tor es.
Attend an information session.
Wednesday, September 23rd
a 12:00 p.m.
School of Natural Resources
Room 2024
800.424.8580 (www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Students eat at the Hill Dining Center last night. Some have complained that the dining hall can't accomodate nearby residents.

DINING CENTER
From Page 1A
about 710 people.
But according to the University
Housing website, about 3,090 stu-
dents live in the Hill area.
Delays became a greater con-
cern this year when the 400 or
so residents who moved into the
recently re-opened and revamped
Stockwell Residence Hall this fall
joined the crowd of approximately
2,700 students who reside in the
Mary Markley, Mosher-Jordan,
Couzens and Alice Lloyd Resi-
dence Halls.
Logan said that though no resi-
dence hall is technically assigned
to a specific dining hall, due to its
location, the Hill Dining Center
generally serves students living in
the Hill residence halls. He added
that that was not the main point of
the dining center, though.
"The Hill Dining Center was
really built as more of a dining
destination location as opposed
to a specific dining hall designed
only for certain students," he
said.
Though Logan said he recog-
nizes that because of the dining
center's location and the lack of
dining halls in most of the Hill
residence halls the Hill Dining
Center would be the most logical
MSA
From Page 1A
students.
"We tried to take this complex,
giant issue and bring it to fun-
damentals and relevancy to stu-
dents," Raymond said. "It's less
symbolic and more action based."
The resolution is likely to be
voted on at next week's meeting.
MSA REFORMS BUDGET TO
CUT COSTS
MSA presented a summarized
budget last night that demonstrat-
ed a clear move to increase fiscal
discipline in assembly spending.
The executive board noted that
a spending cut was necessary
because the current system won't
be viable for the assembly in the
following years.
"We will look to see that MSA's
budget is sustainable for year's
forward, which right now it's not,"
said MSA Treasurer Vishal Bajaj.
MSA Vice President Mike
Rorro said the budget issues are
not because of fiscal irresponsibil-
ity or overspending, but because
of a shift in professional staffing.
Rorro said that about five or six
years a9o the Division of Student"

choice for all students living in the
Hill area.
Despite the additional 400 stu-
dentsfrom Stocklwgl livingithe
Hill area this year, Kathy White-
side, Menu Systems & Nutrition
Information manager, said there
aren't too many more students
going to the Hill Dining Center
than there were last year.
"It might appear to be more
crowded," she said. "But I think
part of it is just students settling
in and adjusting to their schedules
and figuring out where they want
to eat."
Logan echoed this senti-
ment, saying he anticipates that
once students settle in, the din-
ing center will probably be less
crowded.
"It has been busy," he said. "We
were anticipating all along that
we would need to provide seat-
ing for students who used to eat
in the variety of four different
dining halls. We figure that the
rush is due to new students prob-
ably not yet settled into their meal
routines and their daily campus
schedules."
He added that the Hill Dining
Center is fully equipped to accom-
modate the Stockwell residents.
Logan said students from Mar-
kley and Oxford Hall also tend to
use the Hill Dining Center.
Whiteside said there is a mas-
Affairs provided professional
assistance to MSA, but because of
budget cuts at the University, Stu-
dent Affairs limited those profes-
sional resources.
MSA was then forced to hire
more professional staff to fill the
void. Although this transition
happened years ago, Rorro said
the financial burden has finally
caught up to MSA.
Rorro said that rollover funds
covered these costs in previous
years but that the surplus is now
running low and the costs are add-
ing up.
MSA President Abhishek Mah-
anti said the limited funds were
also a result of more money being
allocated to committees and com-
missions because of increased
activity on campus.
He added in the decreased rev-
enue from AirBus as a factor too.
AirBus is an MSA-funded shut-
tle to the airport during official
school breaks. He said MSA plans
to advertise the shuttle more, in
hopes of increasing revenue.
MSA funded student groups
will not be negatively affected and
they might even see an increase
in their budgets because of the
changes, Mahanti said.
He also said if MSA can't make
due with its funding, the assembly

ter menu that each dining hall
uses to create their respective
menus, but some cafeterias have
different equipmenlt .slcls at .y
limit the type of food they can
serve.
"The Hill Dining Center was
designed with a lot more options
to offer a wide variety of food to
the students," she said. "A goal
and objective we have is to offer
this at more of the dining facili-
ties."
Engineering junior Nirmit
Agarwala, who usually eats at the
dining center, said he finds it toube
very crowded.
"There's always a lot of people
here," he said. "And the line to get
in is always very long."
LSA sophomore Sarah Correa
said that on days when the din-
ing hall is especially crowded, she
and her friends take steps to avoid
the crowds, like planning to come
at less popular times.
"It's hard to find seats on Sun-
days, so we have to strategize for
the best time to come eat," she
said.
LSA sophomore Ning Xie said
she also tries to avoid eating in
the dining hall during typical
dinner hours when it's especially
crowded.
"I try and eat dinner later,
around 7 or 8, to avoid the
crowds," she said.
might have to ask the Board of
Regents for more funding in the
future.
HOMECOMING BUDGET
APPROVED
In its weekly meeting last
night, the Michigan Student
Assembly passed a resolution to
authorize expenses for three days
of homecoming events that will
begin tomorrow.
This year's homecoming -
themed, "Those who stay will be
champions" - will kick off with
a "Burrito Mile" on Palmer Field.
Participants will eat a burritothen
race for one mile. bd's Mongolian
Grill will donate $5,000 worth of
food for participants and specta-
tors at the event.
Several student performances
by groups like Dance 2X and
the Michigan Bhangra Team - a
group that tries to raise awareness
of Punjabi culture through perfor-
mance - will follow the race.
The assembly will also host an
alumni tailgate Saturday before
the game.
Last year, the assembly spent
$12,000 on homecoming, accord-
ing to Rorro. Homecoming will
be about one-quarter of that cost
this year.

Law Day 2009
Wednesday, September 23rd
1 2-4pm at The Michigan Union
Meet with 100+ law schools plus
local test preparation services
Collect application information and
explore law education options
Visit our website for a list of schools
scheduled to attend
Your story " Your Community+ Your Presentation

(73M)'6 7460

TheCareerCenter
3son of udn~t airs

iic h.edu

338 S. State St. S
Ann Arbor
734.996.9191
EiVONTS
MOO-FRI 7O
Happy Hour 3-6pm DRAFT
Lunch Special Menu 11:30am-3pm BMRS
BOTTL4DMxn .*. .
BARS
MOI1DES
Live Trivia hosted by Motor CityTrivia 7 and 8pm
Late Night Happy Hour 10pm
$1ODeSDaBf.
$1 off Select Drafts W0 SinGiLO MRLT SCOTCHOS

SOTURDOM
'Kegs and Eggs' Breakfast Buffet:
Open Early For Every Big Ten Home Game
Featuring Breakfast, Beer, and a Bloody Mary Bar

1

SIGO UP FOR EM1IL UPD0T@S aT www.ashleys.com
10i OUR TUliTTOR: a2ashleys


a

4A - Wednesday, September 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
r _ the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
t AAnn Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Bulking up rec programs
University must renovate campus recreational facilities
he University's recreational sports facilities need to
get in better shape - or at least that's what a Univer-
sity committee determined last spring. But instead of
implementing the committee's suggestions, the University has
decided to slim down the hours that recreational facilities will
remain open. Citing financial reasons, less-attended morningand*
evening hours at the Intramural Sports Building have already
been cut. But the quality of the buildings will only continue to
worsen if they aren't improved for faculty members who pay
to use them. The University needs to invest in the health of its
students and faculty by investing in the health of its recreational

ROSE JAFFE

I

50,c~n 1s 61( oie
fa_ les j c9o ,
/ o esii5 "'>.

ek ci r y 3t41-tip dueer
apt ws t rI h
qewrr9f iH- .

Bichon Frise?Sounds tasty

sports facilities.
In 2007, the University created the Rec-
reational Sports Task Force to examine
how to improve recreational sports facili-
ties at the University. The task force's find-
ings, which were made public in March,
showed the University lagging far behind
its peers. For example, only Purdue and
Penn State have fewer square feet of rec-
reational facilities per student than Michi-
gan, and only Penn State and Michigan
haven't built new facilities since 1983. The
task force's findings have been for the most
part set aside, and the decision to cut the
IM Building's early morning and evening
hours seems to contradict the intentions of
the task force's recommendations.
Administrators have argued that the
change in IM Building hourswas necessary
because income from faculty membership
dues to University recreational facilities
has decreased. But declining member-
ships have probably been brought on by
neglect of these facilities. Cutting hours
in the morning and the evening will only
further discourage faculty use by increas-
ing overcrowding at facilities during peak.
hours, and in turn lose the University more
memberships. Unless the University starts
making improvements, the facilities will
only get worse.
And they're already in poor condition.
Gym users frequently complain about
long waiting lines, inadequate equip-

ment and unsanitary conditions. The task
force has recommended increasing floor
space by 60,000 square feet, replacing
old machines, reworking space to create
a more inviting feel and making needed
improvements to things like the ventila-
tion systems. These aren't unreasonable
changes - schools like Miami University
in Ohio have opted to build entirely new
facilities - and if administrators are seri-
ous about encouraging a healthy campus
community, they must fix the recreation-
al centers.
Considering that health care costs are an
enormous expenditure at the University,
fitness centers shouldn't be where cuts are
made. While the budget is certainly tight,
increasing the quality of recreational cen-
ters is an investment in the future health
of the University community. The enor-
mous necessity to students and faculty out-
weighs the costs.
The University's comparatively deficient
facilities are embarrassing, especially con-
sidering the University's supposed dedi-
cation to a healthy community. While the
University should look for ways to cut costs
and keep tuition affordable, it shouldn't do
so at the expense of recreational facilities
that are already lagging. Administrators
should expand services and upgrade exist-
ing facilities to the level of quality that stu-
dents and faculty deserve.

Before we get to today's exciting
topic, I'd like to clear up some
rumors:
It's true that I
solved the health
care problem
before any other ~
Daily columnists.
But I have more
important news.
Yesterday, the
autumnal equi-
nox occurred for WILL
the billionth time GRUNDLER
in a row, meaning
today it's officially
fall, meaning our
warm weather will disappear soon.
Honestly, you would think just once,
we could have a year-long summer. But
thisis Michigan. Fall isn'tsobad,right?
There are pretty colors and nice smells
and a profound sense of the cyclical
nature of life as our little world starts
to die, only to be reborn in the spring,
and also the squirrels start to starve,
right?
Wrong. As everyone knows, fall is
the best weather for walking animals
like dogs and children. What does
this mean? It means we can expect
to see more dogs and children on
leashes. Specifically, and in an alarm-
ing trend, we can expect to see more
men walking little dogs around Ann
Arbor. Has anyone else noticed this?
Does anyone find it odd and possibly
threatening in some way, besides the
Michigan Review?
Well, I don't feel threatened, exact-
ly. This is because the men have MOL-
ECULE-SIZED dogs. What's going on
here? Where are the Dobermans, the
German Shepherds, the Black Labs?
Was a Bichon Frise really intended

to be man's best friend and not, say,
something fun to feed to alligators?
I suppose I'm confused. Maybe
these guys just like little dogs. Or
maybe they're professional dog walk-
ers. Then again, maybe I'm going to
graduate with a job. The only realis-
tic conclusion that comes to mind is
that these men have created a new
strategy to meet women. Women love
a Bichon Frise, right? Women see a
Bichon Frise and say, "Wow! THAT
could go with my shoes," right? So
I getr at. But does havinga small
dog really make a guy more date-
able? Doesn't guiding a Papillon or
a Pekingese around and talking to
it affectionately give off some weird
vibes? Doesn't it seem to say, "I also
have an unmarked white van, not just
my littleLuluhere?"
There's also the sheer amount
of effort involved. Like most guys,
I didn't even know what a Bichon
Frise was before I started writing
this. It sounds like an entree, doesn't
it? (Actually, it's a white dog that's
approximately the size of a soccer
ball, only you can kick it further.) I
had to look itup on the Internetso you
think I know what I'm talking about.
(English majors: This is called adding
"ethos" to your writing.) I tend to do
this with most issues when their key
concepts elude me, which is why my
editors only let me write about cer-
tain things and fail to invite me to
parties. Anyway, if you're like me and
don't have a solid grasp of small dogs
in general, I'll save you some time. It's
safe to say that all small dogs either:
1. Look as though they've been
tossed ina dryer, or
2. Look as though they've been
tossed ina washing machine, or

3. Have no dog friends.
But let's get back to the effort of
becomingasmall-dogdude.Afteryoti-
do some research you actually have to;
buy one of these things, and that must.
be embarrassing.
Guy: Hi, I'm here for the - um
what's it called - Filet Mignon?
Breeder: You mean the Bichon
Frise?
Guy: Oh. That's it.
Real men don't buy
Dobermans. They,
buy Shih Tzus.
But who knows? Maybe small dogs
will be huge in a few years. Perhaps
in a short time, everyone will own
a small dog and large dogs will be
frowned upon and we'll be one step
closer to stopping global warming.
Perhaps the Chihuahua could be the
new symbol of masculinity. Maybe
in the near future when we turn on
the TV and a Wrangler Jeans com-
mercial comes on, it won't be guys'
playing football and enjoying one'
another's pants just a bit too much. It
will be guys walking their Shih Tzu's
and enjoying one another's pants just,
a bit too much, and we'll just have to
accept that.
In other, but not wholly unrelated,
news: Guys with small bikes who go
around doing stunts are still dumb.
Sorry.
- Will Grundler can be
reached at weruumich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers to
join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
ALKA CHANDNA
Don't sacrifice animals for science


4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

DIANA FLORA |
The other side of Detroit

"This is an exciting time to be in Detroit,"
said Grace Lee Boggs, a 94-year-old activist.
"We're engaged in creating something new."
As I sat in the dimly-lit upstairs of the Boggs
Center, where many social justice activists had
sat before me, I looked to the other participants
of Semester in Detroit and saw women who
were as deeply moved and inspired by Grace's
words as I was.
This was April, and we had all spent the past
four months living, working and taking classes in
the city. Many of us had been challenged by the
harsh reality that Detroiters live with daily, but
beyond that, we had spent the past four months
having our preconceptions of Detroit shattered.
For this self-selecting group of liberal arts
students (and one arts student), the opportu-
nity to live in Detroit meant a variety of things.
For me, it was a way to connect with a city that
I was interested in on both an academic and
human level. After the program had finished,
we had collectively spent 3,000 hours volun-
teering for social service agencies, community
development corporations and community arts
organizations. I chose to work with Rashida
Tlaib (D-Detroit), the state House of Repre-
sentatives member for Southwest Detroit and
one of the few state legislators with an active
district office.
Largely because of my positive experience in
Semester in Detroit, I decided to take root in
the city after I graduated in May, and chose to
live in the district that I once served. Nestled
in the heart of southwest Detroit, I have more
daily interactions with my neighbors than I did
even in Ann Arbor. There's a community gar-
den two blocks from my house where I can go
pick a head of broccoli that I know was tended
to by neighbors and friends.
Though I'm still involved with Tlaib's office,
I now work as an AmeriCorps member for
Gleaners Community Food Bank on the east
side of the city. I set up nutrition education and
cooking classes for low-income folks in south-
east Michigan through a national program
called Operation Frontline. These classes are

facilitated by volunteer chefs and registered
dietitians who teach participants how to eat
healthily on a limited budget.
After living and working here for nine
months, I can't deny that there is some truth
to the media's negative portrayal of the city.
Violence and institutional corruption are pain-
ful realities that result from a history of racial
segregation and deindustrialization, which has
divided Detroit's population for more than a
century. This history is like a scar - physical
proof of the trauma the city has suffered and
yet evidence that there has been healing.
There is this Detroit, the one that people
fear, but the Detroit that interests me is the
one that is realistic about its own potential. I
see this in perspectives like those offered by
Boggs. These visionaries go beyond the idea of
"saving" the city. Rather, they recognize that
a complete restructuring is needed not only of
the city's infrastructure, but of what we think a
city is. Given Detroit's scars, revitalization will
necessarily be painfully critical and rational,
and people have already begun to think cre-
atively about it. This is the "something new"
that Boggs and many other Detroit residents
are engaged in.
I see a lot of hope in this kind of realistic
pragmatism. This is an exciting time to be liv-
ing in Detroit because the moment has come
for its re-imagining and restructuring. Detroit
residents have both the unique privilege and
the responsibility to engage themselves in this
revitalization. I'm happy to be part of this in
some way as a new resident of the city.
For those interested in learning more about
the program and our work in the city, come
to "Engaging Detroit - A Panel and Discus-
sion on Doing Community Work in Detroit" on
Wednesday, Sept. 23 from 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
in Dennison HAll, Room 110.
And a reminder - Semester in Detroit appli-
cations are due September 30. Get the applica-
tion online at www.semesterindetroit.com.
Diana Flora is a University alum.

As oversight specialist for People for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals, I spend a lot of time pouring over records
pertaining to the abuse of animals in laboratories - labo-
ratory inspection reports filed by governmental agencies,
animal use protocols outlining graphic details of experi-
ments and veterinary records describing the day-to-day
lives of animals that have suffered painful and deadly
tests in university laboratories.
I am sometimes surprised when I speak with college
students and others who imagine that animals are no lon-
ger used to test cosmetics (they are), that it's illegal to use
dogs and cats in invasive or painful experiments (it's per-
fectly legal), that animals are retired to sanctuaries after
they've been used in laboratories (most animals either die
in the course of the experiment or are killed afterward)
and that every precaution is taken to minimize the suffer-
ing of animals (this is demonstrably false).
I suppose I shouldn't be surprised. After all, experi-
ments conducted on animals are done out of public view,
and when animal experimenters do discuss their "work,"
they use euphemistic terms that mask the cruelty that
they inflict on animals.
More than 115 million animals - including 70,000 non-
human primates, 72,000 dogs, 22,000 cats and 236,000
rabbits - are used in U.S. laboratories every year. And
the treatment of these animals is abysmal. Studies from
2005 and 2009 reveal that SO to 60 percent of rats and
mice who are subjected to painful experiments in which
deep incisions are made in their abdomens, chests and
skulls receive no post-surgical analgesic pain relief. A
2003 Harvard study found that nearly 90 percent of mon-
keys caged in laboratories engaged in abnormal behaviors
indicative of extreme psychological distress, including
self-mutilation and repetitive, neurotic behaviors such as
circling madly or incessantly running from side to side in
their cage.
Virtually nothing is prohibited in animal laboratories,
no matter how redundant, pointless or cruel it is. Animals
have holes drilled into their skulls, their spinal cords sev-
ered to cause paralysis, their eyes sewn shut and their
skin burned off. Even when modern alternatives to ani-
mal use are available, experimenters are not required to
use them and most of the time they don't.
There is only one federal law in the U.S. - the Animal
Welfare Act of 1966 - that governs the treatment of ani-
mals in laboratories, although this law fails to cover mice,
rats, birds and fish, who account for at least 95 percent

of the animals used in laboratories. That said, according
to multiple federal audits, even this law - which deals
mainly with caging and husbandry issues and covers only
a tiny fraction of the animals used in experiments - isn't
adequately enforced. These audits have also found that
the animals' last line of defense - oversight commit-
tees at individual laboratories, called Institutional Anir-
mal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) - are failing at
their jobs, functioning as rubber-stamping committees in
which anything goes.
At the University, where 350,000 animals are used
each year, experimenters have addicted monkeys to every
drug under the sun, including cocaine, ecstasy, barbitu-
rates, methamphetamines, nicotine and alcohol. Rats and
mice have been used in studies of fear, anxiety, depression
and helplessness. One experimenter is using rats to study,
the benefits of green tea and another uses mice to study
the benefits of soy.
It's not just that the University's IACUC seems to be
happy to approve every scientifically fraudulent or cruel
protocol that crosses its desk. The University has also'
failed when it comes to basic, day-to-day animal care.
Mice in University laboratories have died of starvation,
and dehydration because people didn't notice that these.
animals had no food or water for days. In another instance,
cases of live mice were placed out with the trash, and thf
animals were crushed to death in a compactor.
In other instances, experimenters have conducted pro
cedures that had not been approved by the oversight com-'
mittee, causing animals immense pain and suffering. In'
fact, over a 6-month period from 2006 to 2007, the Uni-
versity violated federal animal protection regulations and'
guidelines more than 70 times.
Imprisoning and inflicting harm on other thinking,
feeling beings because they are weaker or look differ-,
ent, or because some people believe that our pain is more
important than theirs, is cruel and unethical. Students
deserve to know what happens inside the laboratories a
their school. I encourage all University students, staff and'
faculty to attend the "Testing ... One, Two, Three" forum'
today at 7 p.m. in Angell Hall, Auditorium B. People of all
opinions and backgrounds, particularly those who work
with animals or may work with animals in the future, are{
encouraged to attend.
Dr. Alka Chandna is a senior researcher with PETA. She,
will be speaking at the "Testing ... One, Two, Three" forum.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
p {1

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 23, 2009'- 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 23, 2009 -

Not quite volcanic

By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
On paper, Volcano Choir's debut
album seems primed to be this
season's indie
sleeper that
captures every-
one's attention, Vocano
climbs up college
radio charts and Choir
appears on vari- Unmap
ous NBC sitcoms. lagiatuwar
After all, Jus-
tin Vernon, who
released an album that achieved
all that less than a year ago under
the moniker Bon Iver, is the group's
vocalist. Backing him are the guys
from Collections of Colonies of
Bees, a band that's known for craft-
ing ethereal post-rock and making
albums with names likeface (a.
Sounds great, right? Vernon's
gorgeous, do-no-wrong falsetto
will ground his band's more celes-
tial wanderings, and a novel, acces-
sible album will result. On paper,
this logic is sound. In practice, not
so much.
Describing Unmap is like trying
to describe the hum of a washing
machine. Itsoundskind oflike what
Animal Collective would sound like
if the members pulled areverse Bob
Dylan, tearing the cords from their
laptops and mixers to rely on more
organic instruments. Or maybe
that's completely wrong.
Justin Vernon grunts, squawks,
moans and occasionally sings. The
band complements him by ringing

bells, p
edly anc
tar line
for land
"House.
moment
nating e
ty of me
Justi
thicklyl
to use f
"Husks
wintry v
acoustic
it seems
aslightl}
sion ofI
Ago. But
Ther
opensv

ounding drums disjoint- Gather" is a formless noise collage,
d playing fluid, tapped gui- combining off-beat handclaps with
s. This is not the formula a nasally, whiny voice we haven't
ling on the next episode of heard from Vernon before. Tracks
" But it does produce some like this and "Mbira in the Morass,"
s of truly inspired, fasci- in particular, give the impression
'xperimentation with plen- that the boys were simply indulg-
lodic bite. ing every studio whim and com-
n Vernon's old staple - the mittingthem to record. They come
layered falsetto - gets put off as thoughtless, and maybe that's
from the onset. On opener the point. But it's more likely that
and Shells," his trademark they truly are just thoughtless.
'oice hovers over a mournful Still, Unmap isn't entirely com-
guitar line and, for a second, prised of free-spirited experimen-
.like Unmap will unfold like tation. The album's clear standout,
ylooser,slightlyweirderver- "Island,IS"hasasomewhatconven-
Vernon's For Emma, Forever tionalistructure and even decipher-
:that's not the case. able lyrics. A minimalist-inspired
next track, "Seeplymouth," track, "Island, IS" showcases Chris
vith a Reichian pulse and Rosenau's chaotic, tapped guitar
work, which he's been perfecting
since his days in the underappreci-
ated math-rock band Pele.
ke a washing More grounded is "Still," which
is actually a re-imagining of the a
iachine, but capella song "Woods" from Bon
Iver's Blood Bank EP. Already a gor-
not really. geous song, Volcano Choir's ren-
dition could've easily been on the
wrong side of an "if it ain't broke,
don't fix it" scenario. But the taste-
itar fills and sounds more ful arrangement gives the track
ed by a music theory class depth and momentum and actually
Wisconsin cabin's solitude. improveson the original.
warbles incomprehensibly Unmap could've benefited from
ometimes jarringly off key a stricter editor and more focused
mid the track's gentle puls- songwriting, but it's nice to hear
really quite beautiful. Justin Vernon stretch his wings a
r tracks don't fare as well. bit with a group of accomplished,
does just that, lingering hyper-talented musicians. The
.e same, unmoving ambi- results vary, but the album is a wor-
ne for three minutes. "And thy listen all the same.

"Yes, I normally sport this moustache, but no, I've never appeared in an adultfilm."
Playing al id
Matt Damon carries company, the FBI and even him- McHale (TV's"Community")plays
self. an FBI agent working with Whi-
one of the year's After witnessing Whitacre's tacre, Tony Hale (TV's "Arrested
incessant dishonesty, a certain Development") plays Whitacre's
funniest movies question surfaces: How could lawyer and Patton Oswalt ("Big
someone in his right mind get tan- Fan") plays an FBI investigator.
By KAVI PANDEY gled in such a web of deception? Sci-fi legend Scott Bakula (TV's
Daily Arts As the film suggests, Whitacre "Quantum Leap"), also acts in this
wasn't in his right mind. Dispersed film, shining as Whitacre's FBI
Tales of corporate greed and throughout the movie are glimps- handler as one of the film's stron-
espionage are rarely as fresh and es into Whitacre's tumultuous gest performances.
boisterous as Steven Soderbergh's psyche; his random, rambling Even Matt Damon is stellar,
("Ocean's Elev- (yet occasionally insightful) inner revealing an uncanny knack for
en") new film * thoughts pop up intermittently. comedy seen previously in the
" The Infor- His mind is occupied by mostly "Ocean's" movies. This time,
mant!" Although irrelevant observations - at a busi- however, there's no Brad Pitt or
the exclamation ness meeting, he is more concerned George Clooney to share the spot-
mark seems a bit infotilnaun about the pattern on a man's tie light, allowing Damon to forge
silly, it is a nec- At Showcase than the complex deal being out- a career-defining performance.
essary a -and Quality lined. In addition to being uproari- The brilliance of Damon's act-
dum to the film's as ously funny, these bits hint that ing is underscored by his ability
title, obligatorily Warner Bros. Whitacre may have been slightly to take a fairly sleazy trickster
expressing the delusional and disconnected from with a long list of wrongdoings
film's inherent zaniness. But don't reality. These short scenes serve as - embezzling money and lying
let the seemingly lighthearted an attempt to explain his unrelent- to the government, for starters -
aura fool you - "The Informant!" ing deception. and make the audience root for his
contains many layers of depth, The voiceover narration seg- well-being and happiness. With a
delving into the psyche of a com- ments also assist in maintaining bristly mustache, chubby cheeks
pulsive liar. the film's quick, jolly pace. Typi- and a cornucopia of one-liners,
MattDamon ("The Bourne Ulti- cally dull moments, such as shots Damon allows us to ignore Whi-
rmatum") packs on a few pounds of people walking or landscapes, tacre's unwavering self-interest
to play the aforementioned fibber, become hysterical when injected and embrace his goofiness.
Mark Whitacre, who is a high- with Whitacre's inane prattles. Decorated with flowery titles
ranking executive at agricultural Unfortunately, this momentum and featuring a jaunty score that
powerhouse Archer Daniels Mid- isn't sustained to the fairly dull sounds like '70s cop show music
land. Despite enjoying the spoils climax, as the wackiness wears (think "Starsky and Hutch"),
p of a cushy career, he begins to tat- off and Whitacre's constant scam- "The Informant!" has a retro feel
tle to the FBI about his company's ming becomes more irritating perfect for a comedy set in the
association in a massive price- than comical. 1990s. Based on real events, the
fixing conspiracy. Whitacre even Still, the film avoids a complete film has been aptly released at a
begins to wear a wire for the feds cinematic implosion mostly due to time of great corporate distrust,
in hopes of implicating his superi- its steady stream of newly arriving making Mark Whitacre a mod-
ors and taking over the company, supportingcharacters. Soderbergh ern anti-hero for taking down
but his squealing only snowballs smartly fills out the cast with a his company's corrupt practices
into a never-ending landslide of cavalry of some of the industry's (while still skimming some profits
lies as he perpetually deceives his most underrated comic talent. Joel off the top).
Nothing happening in 'Love'

Li
m

airy gu
influenc
than a'
Vernon
- and s
- but a:
ing, it's
Othe
"Dote"
over th
ent drot

. :,:
. , ,;_ r
s. '
n..
.: :
f-
,,

Before and after swine flu.
SENISIS:
loinFsrgemII
TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT
and be pictured in the Michiganensian Yearbook

9/23&9/24
Wed a Thurs

9/28 thru10/2
Mon thru Fri

By JENNIFER XU wife's death. In this sense, Eloise
For the Daily becomes less of a leading romantic
- figure than a supporting one, prod-
In "Love Happens," Aaron Eck- ding Burke along in his tortuous
hart ("The Dark Knight") plays journey toward recovery.
Burke Ryan, a Expectations aside, the movie
smarmy self- * is a mess. Its vague attempts at
help counselor humor are painful. The emotional
encouraging intensity of the film could be held
everyone to fol- in a teaspoon. There is a scene filled
low a grief man- HappenS with people slow clappingthatwill
akement system At Showcase make audiences physically embar-
he developed and Quality16 rassed for the extras forced to per-
after his wife's form in it. And the ending, where
death. Universal Pictures Eloise and Burke inevitably get
ends up conduct- together, seems grafted on. There
iqyg a three-day seminar in Seattle, is scarcely a scene where these two
assuring participants that every- were talking about something even
thing will be "A-OK!," as the title tangentially love-related.
of his book proclaims. In short, this film has no idea
On the other side of things, what it wants to be. Is it a satirical
there's, Jennifer Aniston (TV's film critiquing brand names and
"Friends") who plays Eloise Chan- big corporations? Is it the Lifetime
dler, a flower shop owner getting Channel Weepie of the Year? It's
over a string of cheating musician certainly not a generic romantic
bpyfriends. She is also presum- comedy, despite its halfhearted
ably accustomed to deflecting the attempts to mime one. In this way,
advances of self-help counselors "Love Happens" becomes less of a
like Burke. The two meet, they predictable Hollywood film and
squabble and they only have 72 more of an identity-crisis-stricken
hours together. Even still, they fall Sybil of American cinema.
for each other, and love happens. The excellent cast should have
At least, this is what the movie rescued the film, but it failed to
description - not to mention the live up to its potential. Aaron
title - tells us. Eckhart, fresh from the pathos
Based on the title alone, one of Harvey Dent and the sleaze of
would expect a slightly sappy Nick Naylor from "Thank You for
romantic comedy that's funny and Smoking," paired with Jennifer
predictable+++ but heartwarming Aniston, America's sweetheart,
all the same. Instead the audience should have sent sparks flying.
is treated to two hours of a self- Something really good could have
indulgent Burke bawling about come from this. Instead, view-
what a hypocrite he is because ers are treated to shots of Eck-
he didn't actually et over his hart lookinF morosely to the side,

drinking Grey Goose. And then
there are the interminable scenes
of the grief seminar, which ring of
superficiality.
Unexpectedly, Jennifer Anis-
ton might be the saving grace of
this movie - or at least the clos-
est thing to it. She breathes some
much-needed life into the bland-
as-beans character of Burke, fak-
ing sign language to escape his
come-ons, reading him memo-
rable notecards saved from years
of flower deliveries and borrow-
ing a telephone truck to watch a
Rogue Wave concert. Deftly, she
This film can't
even do
generic right.
suggests there might be some
semblance of romantic chemistry
brewing underneath, but these
moments are way too few and far
between.
"Love Happens" is poignant
without the pathos, and it's a chick
flick without the romance. The
movie transcends mere hackneyed
Hollywood romance because it
can't even do generic right. And
even so, two screenwriters are fil-
ing a billion-dollar lawsuit against
this movie for the rights to the story
because they claim they thought of
it first. Why anyone would declare
responsibility for this tedious mess
(Ia movie is unexplainable.

18mm - 6pm
Bring this coupon with you and get
$2 OFF your Sitting Fee!!!
S Yche y rra i onin
YE ARBOO K

Schedule your portrait online:
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
Location:Sophia B. Jones Room, Union


a'

6A- Wednesday, September 23, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.corn

0

1l

R E ALT Y

ROOM FOR RENT on a horse farm.
PRESEnTS HE 210 miles from campus. $400/mo.
734-433-1057.
P RE S EN TS T HEF

CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at1734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner. 734-
429-2850 or bcrider@umich.edu

i

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010 *.
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdn. fun. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w laundry and a0111
storage. Great for UM fotball fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Bes Landlrd. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.

Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
gd -to Pzza sf/eoa5e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help find a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
is fg
i) read te dail
b,) do e crossword pule
c.) sleep and embarass yoursel

i ne e
SICK OF THE DORMS? ,
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for details (734) 668-
1100 or www.varsitymanagement.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY,
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.cainpusrealty.com
g g
15

Studio &I1
8drm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
C734-663-1530
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
Daily Classifieds:
serving the UofM
y've community for
been hundreds upon
see hundreds or so
years.,
STUDIO'S AND I Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
fonation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)769-7520
1 & 2 bdnr., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wOated
090 -
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. P/T,
possible F/T Summer. Must know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
CHILD CARE NEEDED. 2-3 days a
week. 6:30-8 AM. 11 year old. Own
transporation. Repsonsible references.
734-769-1462.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENT WORK
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com

Get 'em while they're freshmen.
They won't be ripe for long.

A

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
II
Child Care
095
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
IN-HOME CHILDCARE provider,
Mon-Thurs., some Fri, 2:45 to 5:45.
Job inc. pickup from school & some
driving.Close to campus, excellent
pay, some flex. Ref req. Contact
668.8327 or abrown@planningmi.org ,

I

I BEDROOM, 521 Walnut St.: Fully
furnished, brand new furniture, updated
kitchen with dishwasher. Great campus
location, heat, water, parking included.
Call Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.

4


1
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
z
2
3
3
3
3
4
4
4

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Hedonistic 40 Aunt Bee's 52 Letter-to-Santa
1 Pea holders fellows grandnephew itemization
5 Get ready for 6 Maze scurier 41 Most destitute 53 Totally enjoying
surgery 7 Scratch (out), as 43 Tie settlers, for 54 Clear the snow
9 Beethoven's a living short 55 Attached with
"Fur _" 8 Sentence ender 46 "_ voyages" thread
14 Geometry 9 Payment from a 47 Game often 57 Taj Mahal city LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
product contestant played with a 58 "Woohoo, the ABLE Near U of M hospital. Ex-
15 Victoria or 10 Tackle box item 24-card deck weekend!" tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
Geneva 11It sells a lot of 48 Make absurdly 59 Being, to Caesar available for immediate occupancy
16 Zapped in the build-it-yourself easy, with "down" 62 "La Cage across the street from U of M hospital.
microwane r urnitmre 51 Novelists' Foles" Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
7 Hydration trom 12 F-mail cmmand creations 83 Wahine's gift ful H~ard Wood Floors, Dishtwasher,
underground 13 Swirling currentfu adWodFos, iswse,
undrgoud n3 weircstand On-Site tLaundry. Carport Parking
19 Prevailing 18"_ u sirst?" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an p-
tendency 22 Desnrt Storm
20 Horseshoer's . ration, for short S N E R D R H O A B C S pointment, pictures available at
workshop 24 Mutton fat T A K E I M O A T L O S E www.archrealtyco.com
S d"Allnest" 25Explosive ANGEL A T I T A G A I N
238Exusedesigned compound R US S E L L C R OW E
to elicit sniffles 26 Grain husks
6 Busy pro in Apr. separated in E M 1 T A R R A S NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
9 Thunder on a threshing S I M U S S E L S H E L L Arch Realty located at 616 Church
radio show, e.g. 27 Lab dish T E T R A M AC H I S M O Street, for more details call 734-995-
14 Testthe weight inventor I F W E P S E U D S H O W 9200 or see www.arcltrealtyco.com
of 28Gsharp's GLAD I OLA ASONE
6 To thisday equivalent M U S C LIE C RAM P ED _D
17 Bird on a dollar 30 It's not fiction
18 Minimally 31 "Snowy" wader A X I A L R I P A RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
0 Undiversified, as 32 Stopsbleeding R U S T L E C A T T L E Near IM Building- Available for imme-
a farm 33 Conical C R A P S H O O T R A M I S diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
2 Old French residence H U G E O G R E E R E C T to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
money 35 Shelter foi I B E T P A D L I N K S and Parking Included. Prices starting at
poetically 39Atar attendants xwordeditor@aol.com 09/22/09 $725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.

HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
AD
VE
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

For Thursday, Sept. 24, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
This can be quite a happy, upbeat day
for exploring adventures! You're inter-
ested in people from different back-
grounds. You're also eager to travel or
learn something new. You rock!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Gifts, goodies and favors from others
might come your way today. Keep your
pockets open. For various reasons, you
stand to benefit from the wealth of oth-'
ers. (Yay!)
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Conversations with partners and close
friends are warm and friendly today. You
might even take a maternal or nurturing
approach with someone today.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
This is agood day to ask for assistance
from co-workers or from anyone who is
trying to finish a job. People will be sup-
portive of you today! (It's also a good
day to deal with small pets.)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
This is. a wonderful, easygoing, fun-
loving day. Both the Moon and lucky
Jupiter are on good terms with each
other, and in turn, this benefits you.
Enjoy your day!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Enjoy entertaining at home today.
Family functions will go well. Even
casual conversations with family mem-
bers will be upbeat and joyful. This is an
excellent day for real estate deals.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
It's easy to be optimistic and hopeful
today, because you're ina positive frame
of mind. Conversations with relatives

and siblings will be fun. It's a great day
for a short trip.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
This is an excellent day for business
and commerce. It's also a good day to
shop. Whatever you buy could turn out
to be profitable in the future
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Today is good for business asd good
for home and family. Discussions with
female friends will be warm and
friendly.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You'll enjoy a time alone today, if you
have a chance to squeeze this in. This
might be unlikely, because you're so
high-viz with bosses, parents and VIPs
right now. (Shee!)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20toFeb. 18)
Enjoy good times with others today.
Meetings, conventions, conferences and
classes will be enjoyable, plus good
sources of interesting information.
(That's good.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Others will notice you today. In partic-
ular, bosses, parents and VIPs will have
their eyes on you. No worries -you
look swell!
YOU BORN TODAYAt heart, you're
an explorer; therefore, you also love to
travel. You're very free-spirited and
independent. You make friends easily, in
part because you're very generous. No
matter what you do, it's important for
you to get time by yourself, because soli-
tude nurtures you. This year might be
one of the most powerful years of your
life. Dream big!
Birthdate of: Nia Vardalosm
actress/screenwriter; Jim Henson.
Muppets creator; Jessica Lucas, actress.

I
I

I

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

44 Head of France? 1 2 3 4 s 6
45 In a rage
49 The Waste 14 15
Land" poet's
monogram 17 58
50 Made a messofl 2a
52 Mouth the lyrics
56 White Rabbit's 2 20
cry
60 Arm of the sea 20 27 2s a
61 House majority
leader oflthe 3 as as
early 1970s
64 "Uncle Tom's a3s
Cabin" author
65 Has regrets
about a45as8 an
66 Baseball Hallof
Famer Speaker so
87 Cousins o1
hamlets 52 s s4 as
68 Leave the stage
69 Notstagged in time as 61 5
DOWN sa 5
1 Dog's dogs? s7
2 Utah city
3 Sandwich seller
4 Seasons, as fries By Bruce venke& Steta Daily
(c)2049 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

T -s 9 10 111 12 13
16
19
125
1 30 1 32 33
37
51
68 57 58 59
82 63
09/23/09

4

read the Michigan
daily horoscop

Deadlinefor line ads is11:30am one businessday prior to publication
Rates: $3.75 per line for thefirst issue and $1.75 per line foreachtaddditional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contractsareavailable- contact ourvstafffor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when adsareplaced in personwith
valid student iD (non-organizatona, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, orcheck
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account ExecutiveE

4

;


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 23, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 23, 2009 - 7A

STEM CELLS
From Page 1A
"We very much want to find
a way to stop the progression of
ALS," Feldman said, "rather than
just slow it down."
The Investigational New
Drug application was submitted
to the FDA by Neuralstem Inc.,
a Maryland-based biotherapeu-
tics company that is sponsoring
the trial and providing all of the
neural stem cells used in the
treatments.
"They were doing a project
where they were using this stem
cell to treat spinal cord injuries,"
Feldman said. "The really sig-
nificant results clearly became
obvious to me that we should
strongly consider doing similar
work."
The first phase of the clini-
cal trials will assess the safety
of the treatment. Feldman and
her team will conduct the trials
at Emory University in Atlanta,
Ga., pending the approval of
Emory's Internal Review Board.
j Twelve ALS patients at vari-
ous stages of the disease will par-
tciipate in this phase of the initial
trial, which will allow for five to 1O
stem cell injections. Patients will
be examined at regular intervals,
aid a final report will be released
after approximately 24 months.
The FDA's approval of this trial
ftllows the downfall of some key
obstacles to stem cell research in
thte past year.
'Proposal 2 was met with con-
troversy by the citizens of Michi-
gan, passing narrowly with 51
percent of the vote. The passing
of the referendum allowed for an
amendment to the state's Consti-
tution drawing back restrictions
on stem cell research.
Last March, President Obama
reversed an executive order by
President Bush that restricted
the federal funding of stem cell
research.
Asthefirstclinicaltrialofastem
cell-derived treatment, Dr. Feld-
man's work could hold far-reach-
ing effects for the research and
treatments of other neurodegen-
erative disorders, like Alzheimer's
disease and multiple sclerosis.
- 'The potential role of this trial
to increase our understanding of
other neurodegenerative diseases
is actually quite high," Feldman
said. "However, we won't really
know until we see how stem cells
affect the brain."

CRIME
From Page lA
pital last night, Blackwell said.
After the third person was
stabbed, the fight evidently con-
tinued, Blackwell said. It is at that
point when the suspect with the
knife is believed to have "received
injuries to his face area, possibly a
broken nose," Blackwell said.
The clash ultimately was bro-
ken up, Blackwell said, "by the
bouncers and the police officers
who were right around the cor-
ner." The whole altercation is not
believed to have lasted very long at
all, Blackwell said.

The manager working at Good
Time Charley's at the time the
fight broke out would not com-
ment on the incident.
None of the people involved in
the fight are University students,
Blackwell said. He also said that he
did not know as of 3:45 a.m. yester-
day morning if any of the people
involved were AnnArbor residents.
The suspect with the knife was
taken into police custody, accord-
ing to Blackwell, and was set to be
arraigned yesterday. When con-
tacted today about the arraign-
ment charges, Blackwell said he
had no new information, but said
the AAPD recommended feloni-
ous assault.

GAY RIGHTS ACTIVIST ON CAMPUS

JOIN DAILY NEWS
E-mail smilovitz@
michigandaily.com

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Visiting Prof. Dede Oetomo, one of the principal founders of Indonesia'sgay rights movement, spoke on "The LGBTIQ Movement in
Indonesia," yesterday. Oetomo's lecture explored social organizing in Indonesia based on gender identity and sexual orientation.



GARDASIL.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16, and18)Vacdine, Recombinant]
INTERESTAED IN E DASIL?
EARDASIL IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AM IND
PRIVATE INSURANCE P * CS*ICEI

TALK T YOUR CAMPUS I
OR OTHER HEALTH CARE


I

8A - Wednesday, September 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Walk-on impact felt under Rodriguez

0,

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
Rich Rodriguez remembers
exactly where he was when he
heard the news. He was an incom-
ing sophomore at West Virginia,
stretching at two-a-day camp two
weeks before his football team's
opening game against Oklahoma,
when Mountaineer coach Don
Nehlen called him over.
"He said, 'You can tell your
mom and dad that I'm going to
give you a scholarship, but it's only
going to be one year, and you'll
have to earn it again next year.' I
said, 'That's good, Coach, I'll be all
right,' "Rodriguez recalled. "But I
can remember it like yesterday."
Current Wolverine redshirt
sophomore Kevin Leach's story is
almost identical to Rodriguez's -
and just as poignant. About two
weeks before this year's opening
game against Western Michigan,
Leach was lifting in the Michi-
gan weight room when Rodri-
guez called the linebacker into his
office to tell him he had earned a
scholarship for the 2009 season.
Leach immediately called his
father, Mike, who put the phone
on speakerphone so his whole
family could hear the news at the
same time.
Redshirt junior wide receiver
Jon Conover's scholarship was a
long time coming. He had already
earned two varsity letters and
played in 18 games before the start
of the 2009 season, mainly on spe-
cial teams. As the team's seniors
were about to leave this year's
end-of-camp senior dinner, which
was held at Rodriguez's home in
Saline, the coach asked Conover to
hang back. After three years, Con-
over received a scholarship and a
hug from his coach.
Both Leach and redshirt junior
Jon Conover had similar begin-
nings - they attended Catholic
Central High School (Leach in
Grand Rapids, Conover in Detroit)
and came to Michiganas preferred
walk-ons. Both have difficult
majors - Leach is a mechanical
engineering major and Conover

In last Saturday's 45-17 win
against the Eagles, Leach started
at linebacker after usual starter
Jonas Mouton was suspended by
the Big Ten for one game. Leach
finished with a team-high 10
tackles.
Though Leach's start was a sur-
prise to many, it shouldn't have
been - he is listed second on the
official depth chart at the posi-
tion, behind Mouton but in front
of rivals.com four-star recruit
and redshirt freshman Brandon
Smith.
"If the walk-on's good enough
to play, then he'll play, and man,
that's huge," Leach's father, Mike,
said. "Whether he was a walk-
on or the first guy they signed on
Signing Day, it didn't matter. That
says a lot. It says a lot about Rodri-
guez's character and the way he
runs his team, just a message of
fairness like that."
Since Leach was a "school-
start" walk-on, he didn't partici-
pate in spring or summer practices
with the rest of the team before
coming to Ann Arbor in the fall of
2007. He made friends with a few
of the scholarship players early,
after getting to know them while
regularly giving them rides home
after football practice, but Mike
Leach said it wasn't until two-
thirds of the way through Leach's
freshman season before he felt
like "one of the guys" on the team.
Last season, although Leach was
high enough on the depth chart
AALAH/Daily to potentially have a chance at a
ll team. scholarship, he learned after fall
uch he's camp it wasn't his year.
he's got Judging from his performance
f a walk- against the Eagles, this year clear-
ly is.
s a walk- "He's grown quite a bit," Mike
guez has Leach said. "His first game at
ate of the Michigan was at Appalachian
came to State, and he sat in the stands
ars ago, with a ticket borrowed from a
commit- girlfriend. Last Saturday, he was
tball try- in because a guy punched another
ne every guy, but nonetheless, he's gone
2008 - from sitting in the stands in the
hesitate first game to starting at line-
f a schol- backer. So that's pretty good for a
h chart. walk-on, I'd say."

.a.dSAID ALS
Redshirtjunior Jon Conover (No. 83) earned a scholarship this year after t wo var sity letters, 18 games, and three years of being a preferred walk-on for the footbal

is applying to the Michigan Law
School this year.
(While talking about Conover's
future career plans, Rodriguez
joked, "If anybody has any influ-
ence on helping him get in there,
I think he would be terrific. I
know enough about lawyers now
that I think he'd be a great one. I'd
probably be employing him some
day.")
The news that Conover received
a scholarship this year, which will
be his last on the football field
though he has one year of eligi-
bility remaining, was especially

sweet for him after he suffered a But Conover was back on the
freak throat injury in fall camp. field just six days later, and heard
Conover was hit in practice and the news of his scholarship around
his helmet was jammed down with the same time. Conover was able to
so much force that it fractured his play in the season opener against
hyoid bone, a horseshoe-shaped Western Michigan and earned the
bone in the throat held in place team's Special Teams Player of the
by ligaments above the Adam's Week honor for his play against
apple. Eastern Michigan last Saturday.
Conover was taken to the hos- "Jon's mom and I wrote Coach
pital immediately after practice Rod a letter after he was awarded
and spent the night there, and was the scholarship, and I thanked
released after being told he could him and I also mentioned the fact
only eat soft foods for a few days that I know he had a soft spot in
and likely couldn't practice for his heart for walk-ons because he
three weeks. was one," Conover's father, John,

said. "I have seen how m
talked about them since
there, and ... as a parent o
on, I appreciate that."
Given his background a
on college player, Rodrig
been an outspoken advoca
walk-on program since he
Michigan almost two ye
The proof is both in his
ment to holding open foot
outs - there has been o
semester since February
and the fact that he won't
to put a walk-on ahead of
arship player on the deptl


4

4

The Michigan field hockey team celebrates after a goal in Michigan's win over Stanford last September.
Field hockey coach returns to A2
with NCAA Championship as goal

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Two Olympic appearances.
It soundslike an accomplishment
most athletes would dream about,
but it was Michigan field hockey
coach Marcia Pankratz's reality.
Pankratz was a Big Ten field
hockey player at Iowa before play-
ing in two Olympic games in 1988
and 1996. She went on to coach the
Wolverines from 1996 to 2004.
Then, she left to start her own
company, which she has since run
successfully.
"It's always fun to take on new
challenges and kind of push your-
self outside your comfort zone,"
Pankratz said. "You only get to live
once. ... I'm a bit of a risk taker."
After a four-year hiatus at Four
Goals, the consulting business she
founded to help high school ath-
letes with the recruiting process,
Pankratz ached to be back coach-
ing and teaching student-athletes.
Before this season, Pankratz
hired an associate to run the busi-
ness for her because she could no
longer stay away from Ann Arbor.
She returned to coach at Phyl-
lis Ocker Field in January after
former head coach Nancy Cox
resigned. Back at the helm of the
Michigan field hockey program,
Pankratz hopes to help the Wol-
verines win their second NCAA
Championship in school history.
In 2001, during Pankratz's first
coaching stint at Michigan, the
field hockey team picked up the
first NCAA title for any female
sport at Michigan.
"I remember when I used to be
the assistant at North Carolina
years and years ago, back in the
early 90's, we were talking about
coaching," Pankratz said. "I said
the only coaching job I would e r

look at would be the University of
Michigan.
"It's a phenomenal institution
and has great potential to be a
national power, and I'd like tobe a
part of that and to be back in the Big
Ten where I was a student-athlete."
When Pankratz got the call that
the job was open, she packed up as
soon as the 1996 Olympic games
were over, left Atlanta and headed
to Ann Arbor, where she earned a
reputation to expect the best from
her players at all times.
"Marcia brings a certain
level of intensity to practice and
games, and she's a little bit more
outspoken," former Wolverine
and current assistant coach Kristi
Gannon Fisher said.
A natural athlete, Pankratz
played ice hockey until high
school, when the closest equiva-
lent they offered for girls was
field hockey.
"I found out who the best team
in the country was," Pankratz
said. "So I called up (Iowa) and
went outthere. I loved the Big Ten
atmosphere and how they treated
the student-athletes."
And that was that. Pankratz
played at Iowa for four years
before making her two Olympic
appearances, and she was induct-
ed into the U.S. Field Hockey
Association Hall of Fame in 2004.
The same year, she left Ann Arbor
to start Four Goals.
The Wolverines turned their
record upside down the first time
Pankratz arrived in Ann Arbor.
They were 7-11 in Pankratz's first
year in 1996 but won their first
Big Ten title in 1997, got an NCAA
tournament bid in 1999 and won
the NCAA title two years later.
For Pankratz, the success was
more of an expectation than a
surprise.

"I think all of the young
women, including the team that's
here now, came here because they
want to be a leader, they want to
be the best," Pankratz said. "They
want tobe champions."
But this year's team (2-6) is off
to a less-than-exceptional start,
and with the Big Ten opener this
weekend, they are hoping to fit
the pieces together and perform.
Pankratz isn't concerned though.
She welcomes failure - what she
calls "new paths on your journey"
- and claims it is a contributing
factor to where she is today.
"It's okay sometimes to all of a
sudden have some bumps in the
road because it helps focus you in
the direction you want to go in,"
Pankratz said. "You learn a lot
from it.
"Especially when you are
coaching a team and you lose a
game. You are going to learn a lot
from not winning the game. So
that makes you better."
Gannon Fisher recalls the 2001
season leading up to the champi-
onship.
"We weren't expected to win,
by any means," Fisher said. "We
won because we had a great team
and not just great players on the
team.We allalways have (the 2001
title) in ourback pocket as a great
experience and something that
we use every day in our lives."
Luckily for everyone involved,
Pankratz has set high standards
for this year's team while simulta-
neously embracing adversity. She
brings a level of intensity through
her vocalization and expectations
of the girls that, in the past, has
brought them a championship.
"That's why we are here,"
Pankratz said. "We are trying to
bring another national champion-
ship back t Michigan."

$5 OFF $10 or more
:a. a m alp reVW A k Keycopoe #4250
waainta....a8 wa* %S8CO..t


w

V

U

w w V V


W

w.

w

_


3

A cold United States welcome

ext spring, I graduate and
leave Ann Arbor for good.
Even with still two semes-
ters to go, I am already feeling
myself terribly nostalgic at the
prospect of bidding farewell to
the only place in this country I've
called home.
But when I first arrived on cam-
pus, I was less inclined to label
Ann Arbor the best college town
in the world. At the beginning of
freshman year, I saw the campus
as a collection of unappealing,
brick academic buildings dotting a
largely barren countryside. And in
this unwelcoming dystopia, people
rarely talked - they only nodded
soundlessly in recognition. Who
would have blamed me for see-
ing that? I was, after all, an inter-
national student who had, upon
arriving to Ann Arbor, been mer-
cilessly placed in the sedate, outer-
most edge of campus - Baits I.
On one of my first days on cam-
pus, I watched a deer outside my
residence hall search despon-
dently for food. It was an unsuc-
cessful attempt, of course, for
Baits housed no dining facility.

On a casual foray near the shrub-
bery outside the building, I found
an odd-smelling sofa and squirrels
large enough to devour the deer. A
drunken, haggard man lay uncon-
scious by a walking path. Where
- and how else - could I have cre-
ated a preconceived general image
of Ann Arbor that was farther
from the truth?
Fortunately, a lifetime's expo-
sure to cable television in Pakistan
had me sufficiently well versed in
American pop culture to stop me
from applying generalizations to a
city I had only partly experienced.
So I remained cautiously optimis-
tic, convinced that I would soon
witness America in all its quintes-
sential Rambo-esque glory.
Not even an earlier encounter
with a brusque immigration officer
at Chicago airport had dampened
my excitement or euphoria. After
requesting passengers holding
Pakistani and United Arab Emir-
ates passports to step aside, the
officer proceeded to make us wait
three hours until our names were
called out in ominous tones. The
subsequent interview had been

straightforward. Until, of course,
we got to a harder question: what
color was my hair? "Black," I had
answered coolly. "No, it isn't," he
replied angrily. "It's dark brown."
Then he needlessly reprimanded
Why my first
months in Ann
Arbor were
difficult
me for my flippant outlook on life
as I stood bewildered and per-
plexed before a scared South Asian
student audience.
Still, it seemed the University
was determined to test how much
my optimistic patience would
endure. Following University pro-
cedure, first-year international
students had to register in the
final weeks of August, later than
all other freshmen. Caught in the

urgency of simultaneously pick-
ing classes and figuring out how to
use Wolverine Access and CTools,
I found myself with a class sched-
ule that required four hours of
travel time shuttling back and forth
between Baits and the corridors of
Angell Hall.
On my first day of classes, with
my head still spinning from orien-
tation lessons and tentative class
schedules, I waltzed absentmind-
edly onto a bus when I was ready
to return to North Campus. Instead
of being conveniently deposited at
the Baits bus stop, I found myself
looking at scenery I had never seen
before, realizing far too late I had
taken the wrong bus and ended up
near the Northwood apartment
complex.
Sadly, that wasn't my last
exhausting bus ride. Later that
year, the state of Michigan, eager
to contribute to the international
student's freshman-year obstacle
course, decided to impose a blan-
ket ban preventing temporary
residents from acquiring driver's
licenses. Limited to travel itiner-
aries that depended on Amtrak

and Greyhound routes, I spent fall
break touring Midwestern cities
like Grand Rapids, Cleveland and
Toledo. But unfortunately, I wasted
much of the time waiting at Grey-
hound stops in Jackson, Mich., Gary,
Ind., and a host of other cities with
names that would be more appro-
priate in a University yearbook.
Luckily, first appearances can be
deceiving. Infollowingyears, I man-
aged to erase lingering memories of
monotonous bus rides, immigra-
tion waiting rooms and needless
detours to Detroit and develop a
thorough appreciation of the city.
Now, from the heart of Central
Campus - driver's license in hand
and officially brown-haired - I
find myself in my senior year at
the University. But it was only
after successfully maneuvering an
obstacle course - that may well
have skewed perceptions, for me
or any other international student,
the other way - that I learned to
make the most of my foreign expe-
rience.
-Emad Ansari is a senior in
the School of Public Policy.

The real-life application of medical marijuana
From page 5B

Right now, Joe has 12 plants in
a small grow room that he is pre-
venting from flowering by keeping
them in 22.5 hours of light a day.
He is working on finishing a larger
grow room with the help of some
younger friends, who often come
over to work on projects in Joe's
loft and mechanic shop. When he
moves the plants into the main
room later, he will change their
lighting schedule to 12 hours of
light so they will flower.
"See how tall that ceiling is?" he
said. "We're going to make them
big."
Joe hopes to convince his doc-
tor that marijuana can be benefi-
cial if managed in a safe way. If the
doctor still won't see the value in
medical marijuana, Joe said he
will find another who has learned
about the treatment.
"How can you make a decision

about something you haven't stud-
ied or been to a seminar on?" Joe
said. "I would rather have a doctor
who's trained in the treatment of
leukemia than a doctor who (has)
just heard of the treatment of leu-
kemia."
Joe is used to figuring things
out for himself. It's what he prid-
ed himself on during his 18-year
career as a Dodge mechanic, and
it's what he prides himself on now
as a cancer patient who is making
the most of his remaining years.
"You tell me I can't do some-
thing, I'm going to ask you why
and I'm going to figure out a way I
can do it," Joe said.
Joe's home in Ionia is a testi-
mony to his determination and
indomitable spirit. After he was
diagnosed, Joe moved to be with
his mother on a large plot of land
his niece inherited. With his

mother in the house, Joe decided
to turn a barn loft on the property
into a makeshift apartment. The
loft has no glass windows, and the
only heating is a radiation system
in the walls and concrete floors.
It is not the type of living situ-
ation you would expect for a leu-
kemia patient who has lived much
longer than expected in blast cell
crisis. But Joe has more plans for
the place. Along with the grow
room, Joe is currently adding a
master bedroom and bathroom.
Originally a car mechanic,
Joe has made himself a jack-of-
all-trades through researching
building and growing techniques
online. In that way, Joe is a model
for all of the state's medical mari-
juana patients who, in the absence
of a state-run dispensary system,
have had to engineer their own
way to get medicated.

SAM WOLSON/Daily
A marijuana patient stands in the barn where he is building a hydroponics grow room.


V V V V V V V V V V


-W

-1w-

--w-

_.

--

-W

- -w


v

w


Magazine Editor:.
Jessica Vosgerchian
EditorinChief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
The Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Centerspread design:
Sara Boboltz
Coverphoto:
Sam Wolson

new rules
rule 209:
Leaving a pop
can where a
homeless
person can find
it counts as
recycling. And
also charity.
rule 210:
Harassing
someone at a
football game
for not wearing
maize doesn't
make you a
better fan. It
makes you a
dick.
rule 211:
When it comes
to space in
a communal
fridge: if you
don't use it, you
lose it.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umichedu

IS YOUR
BREW THE

BEST ?

Are you currently storing a beer fermenter
tub in your bathroom? Are you collecting
bottles to fill with your recipe? If so, The
Michigan Daily wants to sample your beer
in its student brewer competition.
To learn more. please e-mail vosgerchian@
michigandaily.com with your name, year in
school and type of beer.

Pandemic
paranoia
Campus life during swine
flu hysteria
Kleenex - check. Hand sani-
tizer - check. Molded surgical
masks? Check. This year, with the
introduction of a new strain of
flu - H1N1, dubbed swine flu -
in addition to the run-of-the mill
seasonal flu, University health offi-
cials are fighting infection in more
creative ways.
Swine flu mania is upon us, and
there isn't a place you can go on
campus that won't remind you of
that. First, there was the e-mail
from Provost Teresa Sullivan,
instructing fever-ridden students
to stay quarantined for 24 hours
after the fever broke. (The e-mail
also provided a get-out-of-class-
free card for anyone bold enough
to fib about having the flu.) Now,
every bulletin board seems to fea-
ture this cute reminder of flu safe-
ty: "Coughs and sneezes spread
diseases!"
But the University is also doing
some innovative things behind the
scenes to battle the flu. A "flu bus",
for example, will transport two
sick students at a time from resi-
dence halls to University Health
Services.
The University's All Hazard
Planning Group-a group of about
50 individuals from various Uni-
versity departments- is respon-
sible for such initiatives. After the
avian flu scare a few years ago, the
group has been working behind
the scenes to combat any pandemic
that might threaten campus.
Amid the flu craze, UHS is a

ABOUT CAMPUS
ILLUSTRATIONS BYJOHNOQUIST

beacon for ill students. In the
clinic, signs give tips for avoiding
the transmission of flu and urge
visitors with flu symptoms (fever,
sore throat, cough, headache, body
aches) to put on surgical masks.
But UHS hasn't been able to pro-
vide much more than helpful tips
to some students - since the flu
mania began, walk-in appoint-
ments have sometimes been harder
to get into than Rick's on a Satur-
day night.
At around 4 p.m. last Friday, a
half hour before the clinic closed,
all the waiting rooms were occu-
pied with people wearing surgi-
cal masks. The sign that hung
above the appointment check-in
desk displaying the wait time for
a walk-in appointment simply read
"OVERBOOK."
Aniuska Rovaina, a Public Pol-
icy junior, made an appointment
at UHS that day on account of her
roommate's weariness over her
recentcough and congestion symp-
toms. Although she respected her
roommate's concern over catch-
ing the flu, Rovaina said she thinks
there's too much hype about being
safe this flu season.
"I think that kids are thinking
way too much about (contracting
the flu) when it's not that big of a
deal," she said.
But according to Robert Win-
field, the University's chief health
officer, these safety measures are
necessary during such an aggres-
sive flu season such as this one. *
"It's very uncommon for us to
see this," Winfield said.
About 15 years ago, Winfield
said that there was an outbreak
of flu that overwhelmed Univer-
sity Health Services for about two
weeks - an amount of cases close

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA

. Other universities are experi-
encing even more aggressive flu
outbreaks. At Cornell University,
one student died on Sept. 11 due
to complications with H1N1. The
number of Cornell students diag-
nosed as probable H1N1 cases
amounted to over 550, The Cornell
Daily Sun reported Sept. 14.
Cornell's Greek scene has put the
kibosh on germ-swapping social
activities like beer pong tourna-
ments and massive house parties.
The Interfraternity Council voted
to place a moratorium on social
events for an undefined amount of
time because of severe outbreak,
the Sun reported.
So with an increasing amount of
flu cases and extreme surges of the
virus on other campuses, should
students be really worried?
Winfield doesn't think so. He
said that last Friday, UHS saw 16
people with flu-like symptoms,
which is a decrease of about 20-30
people per day.
He cited three possible reasons
for the decrease: the outbreak
could be winding.down, students
who caught it at the Sept. 12 foot-
ball game are overcoming the virus
or students are going home when
they feel sick and not checking into
UHS.
Despite the heightened aware-
ness of flu on campus, Winfield
said he believes that most students
are not letting themselves get too
worked up.
"I think that students are han-
dling this well," he said. "We've
had occasional students that are
very frightened, occasional par-
ents that are very worried, but I
think overall, people are being
very sensible."
-LARA ZADE

The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine; distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

FOLLOW
US ON
TWITTER
@michigandaily
@michdailysports
@michdailynews

to what he is currently seeing.
On a typical day, UHS sees about
40 to 50 people who are possi-
bly infected with H1N1. Just two
weeks ago, UHS only saw 50 peo-
ple who reported to have flu-like
symptoms. Last week, UHS treated
190 people.
Although the University is no
longer testing patients for the flu,

UHS is a surveillance site for a
study within the School of Pub-
lic Health that submits five to 10
anonymous specimens a day to
a laboratory to be tested for flu.
Based on these studies, it's evident
that there are people on this cam-
pus who are infgcted with HIN.
So there's a real chance your room-
mate isn't just being dramatic.

IS YOUR APARTMENT A DUMP?
We want to hear about it. E-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com with a description or photos.


w w

.

U U U w w V V V V V

-

w

w

w

w

w

w

w

The Michi-an Dailv - Wednesday, September 23, 2009
M0,010'

W p 0 h
QUOTES OF THE WEEK
just saw that stick "There is an inherent feeling
going through her neck among many in this country
and I knew I needed to that an African-American
get help quick." should not be president."

Looming on Washtenaw Ave-
nue, surrounded by quaint
homes, is a cavernous, Swiss
chalet-style mansion that might, on
a dark night, fill a passerby with a
sense of dread.
If you were to guess the build-
ing's purpose, you might think
it was the headquarters of some
clandestine, powerful society-- or
Ann Arbor's own haunted man-
sion. But the story behind the thick
fieldstone and menagerie of shrub-
bery is really nothing so lurid. The
mansion is the Vitosha Guest Haus
Inn, the city's most interesting
hotel.
This imposing stone fortress is
home to the Vitosha Guest Haus,
as well as owner Kei Constantinov
and family. Located just west of
fraternity row, Vitosha is named
for Constantinov's ancestral con-
nections to Bulgaria.
Greeted by Constantinov - and,
most likely, her gigantic, snaggle-
toothed Mastiff-mix named
George - a visitor to the bed and.
breakfast is immediately dazzled
by the strange, elaborate interior.
Exposed ceiling beams combine
with dark slate flooring to invoke
a rustic but sophisticated lodge in
the European countryside.
From a close examination of the
decor, it is clear that Constantinov
.. - has thought about every detail: the
Victorian literature 'lghe, book-
case, the Holtkamp pipe organ in
the hall and the period furniture
in every room. Even Constantinov
herself adds to the ambience -
with her rich dark red hair pulled
into two braided buns, she com-
poses herself like the grand dame
of a manor frozen in time.
Constantinov's fantasy time
warp was years in the making.
A former art teacher from Indi-
ana, Constantinov purchased the
manor 11 years ago after her hus-

band was transferred from a New
York art firm.
The 32-room inn has a rich his-
tory dating back to 1917, when it
was the home of Dean Meyer, a
professor at the University's medi-
cal school and Ann Arbor City
Council member. Before the Con-
stantinovs, a Unitarian church
had used the property for services
and office space, adding a chapel,
parsonage and a few outhouses.
George Brigham, a modernist
architect who taught at the Uni-
versity, designed the Unitarian
sanctuary in 1956. And according
to the Ann Arbor Historical Dis-
trict Commission, famed archi-
tect Frank Lloyd Wright praised
Brigham's work.
But despite prestigious acclaim,
Constantinov said the manor was
a far cry from the living dollhouse
it is today when she bought it. The
Unitarians had left many of the
interior rooms as plain as hospital
rooms.
"When we purchased the place,
the big house had been used as
an office by the Unitarians and it
seemed like the entire interior had
been spray-painted white," Con-
stantinov said. "And there were
absolutely no gardens around the
place. It looked very stark."
Constantinov renovated anTl
landscaped the property for years
before opening for business. After
her English roses had flourished
and each room had been exquisite-
ly furnished, Constantinov set her-
self to creating an unforgettable
experience for her guests. Visitors
are treated to a china-laden break-
fast and, if they come at the right
time, a variety of entertainment.
"When guests come, I see they
are immediately able to relax and
sink it to their surroundings here,"
Constantinov said. "It's really
about details and finding the time

to establish these details that
makes this place unique."
Norbert Klusen, a visiting pro-
fessor from the University of
Hanover in Germany, sat with his,
13-year-old daughter in the con--l
cert hall listening to the 1930s
jazz stylings of Stolen Sweets. As
is commonly the case with visitors
to Vitosha Guest Haus, Klusen had
chosen to stay there on the recom-
mendation of his University con-
tact. He was very happy that he
had done so.
"I've been about 30 different
states and this place definitely has
a more European feel than many
places we've stayed," Klusen said.
"Immediately when I walked in, it
reminded me of a Scottish or Eng-
lish place."
Constantinovs concert hall will
be busy this year, with a new con-
cert series hitting the stage featur-
ing acts from the former Firefly
Jazz Club.
"Much of the music featured is
along the lines of jazz, classical,
and indie folk music," she said.
Tickets are sold prior to each per-
formance.
But Constantinov's vision for
Vitosha Guest Haus doesn't stop
at a bed and breakfast with occa-
sional entertainment. She wants
to expand into the art world, mak-
ing Vitosha a "cultural center with
lodging."
Right now, she is currently
accepting residency applications
from artists who would live at the
inn for extended period, teaching
workshops, exhibiting work and
participating in panel discussions.
Constantinov's plan to make
Vitosha Guest Haus the creative
hub of Ann Arbor is right in line
with the character of the magnifi-
cent house, which has been a piece
of art at every point in its long,
winding history.

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Mary Sue Coleman and the NCAA
2. Banks bailing out banks
3. Wolf Blitzer's "Jeopardy" fail
And three things you can't:
1. Linda McMahon's Senate bid
2. Prostitutes at ACORN offices
3. Obama on "Letterman"
BY THE NUMBERS
Number of miles an Australian cat strayed from its owner before
they were reunited
Number of miles the cat somehow journeyed by sea across the Bass
Strait, which separates Tasmania and southern Australia
Number of years the cat was missing. It was able to be identified
and returned because of a microchip embedded in its skin
Source: MSNBC

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
YouTube's greatest
Since YouTube launched in Febru-
ary 2005, there have been hundreds
of epic videos that have attracted
millions of viewers on the web. This
video does a great service forYou-
Tube fanatics by compiling all those
hits into one hilarious video.
Titled "100 Greatest Hits of You-
tube in 4 Minutes," this video serves
as a concise and entertaining sum-
mary of some of Youtube's highlights,
many of which have individually
received more than a million views.
The video is set to a song that's a
heady mix of rap and techno, with
the bass thumping in the background
and the clips quickly cycling through
one after another.
This reel of clips combines incred-
ible feats with catastrophic (and pain-
ful) failures. Itincludesseveralpeople
wiping out on treadmills, dirt bikes,
and diving boards, while one man
does a backflip and lands into a pair
of pants being held up by his friends.
A significant portion of this video is
devoted to the baby clips that have
been wildly popular, including the
one about Charlie biting his brother's
thumb, the one with the baby who
laughs nonstop, and the one with the
child who repeatedly says, "blood." In
addition, the video features the hilar-
ious clip of Leroy Jenkins, the crazed
videogamer, screaming his own name
as he engages in virtual combat.
- BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily
E 

- DANIEL CHILDERS, a 22-year-old man
from Idaho, describing the inch-thick tree
branch that sliced through his wife's neck.
She survived the incident because the
branch missed her jugular and windpipe

- JIMMY CARTER, former president of the United
States, describing the motivations behind Rep. Joe
Wilson's outburst during President Obama's national
address on health care earlier this month. Wilson
shouted "You lie!" when Obama said Democratic
health plans wouldn't cover illegal aliens

"God chose me for that moment."
- CARRIE PREJEAN, former Miss California, expressing her belief that she was divinely inspired to
voice opposition to gay marriage during the 2009 Miss USA contest. Prejean was speaking to a
conservative audience at the Values Voters Summit last Friday in Washington, D.C.


THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
CiderFest - It's official: autumn has finally arrived.
To celebrate the start of the season, you should host
a hard apple-cider party with all your friends. You
can either buy your beverages or, if you're feeling
ambitious, you can make your own with fresh apples
from one of the nearby orchards. Either way, there
are three critical components to this party: lots of
cider, some argyle sweaters and a bonfire. Playing
the board game Apples to Apples is optional.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Frugal people are more likely to marry spendthrifts
People who are frugal with their money often tend to marry those
who spend more liberally, a difference that often creates marital ten-
sion, according to a study published by Scott Rick, an assistant profes-
sor of marketing at the Ross School of Business.
In the study, Rick and researchers from the University of Pennsyl-
vania and Northwestern University conducted three different stud-
ies in which they surveyed more than 1,000 married and unmarried
adults. The researchers were looking at whether sentiments about
spending can indicate people's marital preferences, as well as wheth-
er differences in views on spending affect the health of a marriage.
The researchers concluded that both tightwads and spendthrifts
are dissatisfied with their own feelings about spending money, and
this discontent often motivates them to seek out people with opposite
spending habits. In addition, the researchers noted that this diver-
gence in fiscal views tends to produce tension in a marriage.
- BRIAN TENGEL

Sam Wolson I Photographer


V V V V V V V V V

i

-W

_w-

7^

_w

-7W._

-w

v

-W

w

v

4B The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, September 23, 2009

Wednesday, September 23, 2009 - The Michigan Daily 51B

16

A

I

I

I

-

n the afternoon of Aug. 11, Domin-
ick's was as bustling as could be
expected on a sunny summer's day.
With barely a table available on the back
patio, the tin of friendly chatter and the
tinkling of sangria-filled jars created a
lighthearted atmosphere. But tucked
away in the far back, a much more seri-
ous conversation was going on. There,
people from all walks of life had come
together to discuss their one unifying
factor: the desire to treat themselves or
others with medical marijuana.
While from the outside seeming like
a casual gathering like any other taking
place on the patio, this meeting of the
Michigan Marijuana Patient Collective
was anything but carefree. Nearly all of
the 30 or so participants suffered from
a debilitating condition, from leukemia
to chronic migraines. Some people were
so ill they said they barely leave their
homes except for doctor appointments.
But for registered patients, such meet-
ings are one of the only available means
to figure out how to get marijuana.
Michigan took a progressive step
when voters approved the Michigan
Compassionate Care Initiative last
November. But in some crucial ways,
the program is out of touch with needs
of the patients it serves. Michigan isn't
alone - out of the 13 states that admin-
ister medical marijuana programs, only
California provides a means for dispens-
ing to patients through cannabis phar-
macies. Dennis Hayes, an Ann Arbor
lawyer who specializes in drug law, said
that states declined to operate dispensa-
ry systems to avoid being direct suppli-
ers in the face of federal laws prohibiting
marijuana.
"One of the problems is that the state
can't encourage people to act collective-
ly," Hayes said. "The reason is no state
can publicly endorse breaking a federal
law."
But chances that the War on Drugs
will heat back up and target medical
marijuana are slim to none. Following
California's example, states could - and
many people say, should - provide guid-
ance for marijuana patients who, by vir-
tue of being approved for the program,
have serious conditions that make extra
help all the more valuable.
As it stands right now, the Michigan

Medical Marijuana Program presents
a catch-22 for patients: You can smoke
weed, but it's up to you to figure out how.
Vague regulations governing the pro-
gram also induce anxiety for patients
who are afraid that in trying to get their
medicine, they'll run afoul of state drug
laws.
EELING LIKE A CRIMINAL
Even though marijuana is now legal
for thousands of people in Michigan,
registered patients are still skittish
about speaking outright about it. All
patients and caregivers interviewed for
this story asked that their full names not
be printed so as not to draw attention to
their activities.
Several people talked about how
smoking marijuana still feels illicit even
with a registered patient card in pocket.
The same people who passed around lit
pipes at the Dominick's meeting were
unwilling to be identified as marijuana
smokers to the outside world. Some cited
the stigma attached to the vilified sub-
stance.
"We're from the Reagan Drug War
era," a patient named Kirk said. "This is
crazy."
But besides a residual feeling of guilt
surrounding marijuana, there are other
more tangible threats dogging patients
and caregivers. The Michigan Medi-
cal Marijuana Program has only been
operational since April, which means
the nuances of the law are not yet well
known by both patients and law enforc-
ers. A patient couple in Madison Heights
ranintotrouble in March whenthe police
raided their house and confiscated 21
plants, The Detroit News reported. The
two had been approved by a physician
as patients but were waiting to receive
their cards in the mail. A judge later dis-
missed the charges and derided the new
marijuana law for its lack of clarity, say-
ing it was the "worst piece of legislation
(he) has ever seen in (his) life."
The problem comes down to the law's
guidelines, which initially seem clear
but become confusing when applied to
the transfer of marijuana from caregiver
to patient. The law stipulates that a care-
giver may possess up to 2.5 ounces of
usable marijuana and 12 plants for each
of up to five patients. A patient who has

authorized a caregiver to grow mari-
juana may possess 2.5 ounces of usable
product. But does that mean that 5 ounc-
es can be held in the name of one patient,
or just 2.5?
It may seem like splitting hairs, but
patients feel like they need to be as care-
ful as possible. They do live in a state
that has a long history of throwing the
book at marijuana offenders. Ann Arbor
lawyer Dennis Hayes knows just how
bent against marijuana the courts can
be. Hayes has worked on drug law since
1972, when he helped create Ann Arbor's
infamous pot law - which instituted a
small fine as the maximum punishment
for marijuana possession in the city. He
represented defendants in drug cases
until the '90s, when he stopped taking
those cases out of frustration toward the
war on drugs.
But as soon as Hayes heard about
the campaign to put medical marijuana
on the 2008 ballot, he came back to the
cause. The tide had turned for medical
marijuana in Michigan, he said. Unlike
less organized attempts to put it on the
ballot, last year's movement had better
leadership and wider support.
"It was very clear when I saw what
was going on with this one that these
people had it together," Hayes said.
The medical marijuana law began as
a grassroots effort, and deciding how
the program will operate has also been
a community affair. Before the medical
marijuana program began, Hayes and
many other advocates attended public
hearings regarding proposed regulation
guidelines. Advocates shut down plans
to record the actions of caregivers and
patients to an extent that could threaten
privacy or incriminate them in the case
of a federal investigation.
"They first proposed that there be
detailed inventories of who got what
pot, when, from whom - very, very
detailed tracking," Hayes said. "I guess
the threshold issue here is that the
state strongly opposed this leg to begin
with."
COMMUNITY IN LIEU OF
PHAR7MACIES
Michigan might not know how to
treat marijuana users as anything but
criminals. Since the state offers little

PHOTOS BY SAM WOLSON/Daily
(ABOVE) Joe, a leukemia patient, travels almost two hours from onia to be treated in the University Hospital. He uses marijuana to ease more moderate pain he generally feels on a daily basis.
(LEFT) To have easier access to hard-to-find-medical marijuana, Joe is building a hydroponics grow room at his home and learning how to cultivate through websites and other sources.

\ x

:
k _

assistance in obtaining medical mari-
juana, a network of community support
groups has helped patients get their
needed drug.
The Hemp and Cannabis Foundation,
a marijuana advocacy group stationed
in eight medical marijuana states, has
already set up four clinics in Michigan
designed to examine patients and issue
recommendations for medical marijuana
cards. The foundation not only educates
patients about the effects of medical
marijuana, but also advocates the legal-
ization of marijuana for recreational and
industrial use.
Organizations like the Michigan
Medical Marijuana Association main-
tain websites with articles and forums
to educate patients and caregivers. The
Ann Arbor-based Association of Medi-
cal Marijuana Caregivers is currently
establishing a database that will locate
available caregivers within a certaingeo-
graphical area. The locator tool doesn't
yet yield results, but the volunteer effort
to help patients shows a system that is,
in fact, rooted in compassion.
"When you have someone who is
chronically ill, you need to make it easy
on them, not hard, to find their medica-
tion," said Jacqueline Cooke, who vol-
unteers for the Association of Medical
Marijuana Caregivers. "You see a lot of
blogs and a lot of forums with patients
who just have these questions. Your
heart just sort of goes out to them. It's

just so difficult and it shouldn't be dif-
ficult because it's legal."
Hayes, the Ann Arbor lawyer, is also
the co-founder of the Medical Marijua-
na Patient Collective. He said he formed
the group to help patients and caregiv-
ers find each other, learn about growing
techniques and compare experiences.
For patients who were never recreation-
al smokers, medical marijuana commu-
nity meetings are invaluable in figuring
out how to attain their medicine.
At the Dominick's meeting in August,
patients seemed split between people
who had been already using marijuana
to treat their pain previous to the ini-
tiative and people who are just trying it
now.
One marijuana convert at the meet-
ing was a professor at Eastern Michigan
University, who asked to remain anony-
mous to protect her reputation at work.
Suffering from glaucoma, back pain and
chronic headaches, the professor had
been taking so much morphine that it
interfered with her teaching.
"It was such heavy doses," she said.
"It just makes you sick. What would I do
if I even had more pain?"
The professor had never smoked
marijuana except once in high school,
but when a friend suggested she try
marijuana, she found it suited her much
better than the morphine. After being
approved as a patient, she was able to
find a caregiver at a patient meeting who

would grow and harvest marijuana for
her.
Her caregiver, Brenda from Man-
chester, Mich., was also at the Aug. 11
meeting. Sitting with her fiance Randy,
a registered patient she also grows for,
Brenda was on the lookout for prospec-
tive patients. As a caregiver for both
Randy and the EMU professor, Brenda
can legally serve three more patients,
which would allow her to grow 60 plants
in total. She said she is considering mak-
ing her caregiver service a full-time job.
"The more and more people that I
meet, the more that appeals to me," she
said.
PORTR AIT OF A PATIENT
Among the networking patients and
caregivers on the Dominick's patio was
Joe, a leukemia patient at the Univer-
sity Hospital. Joe was different from
the others from the meeting. He wasn't
trying to find a caregiver - he had been
doing that for himself for years. He
wasn't looking to become a caregiver. In
fact, he hasn't even become a registered
patient yet.
Even though he has an obvious quali-
fying condition, Joe hasn't applied for
a card because he has been waiting to
have a consultation with his main doc-
tor at the University Hospital to get his
approval.
Earlier in the year, his doctor had been
concerned about Joe smoking marijuana

and inhaling chemicals on the buds. As a
substitute, Joe was prescribed Marinol,
which is a synthetic cannabinoid meant
to mimic the effects of marijuana. But
Joe said the drug was less effective and
took longer to work - "I was going bon-
kers," he said.
Since being diagnosed with cancer
in 2002, Joe has realized the place for
medical marijuana in his pain manage-
ment system. At first, he said, he turned
to marijuana for the first time in years to
deal with his feelings about his diagno-
sis. But he soon learned that marijuana
can't be used to avoid your problems.
"You'll box it up and box it up, and
sooner or later, your box is full and you
have to deal with," he said. "It doesn't
work. I've tried."
Joe now uses marijuana for moderate
daily pain that doesn't require some-
thing as heavy as morphine. It helps
him overcome nausea, develop an appe-
tite and get on with his life. For a can-
cer patient as active as Joe, the ability
to lessen pain without getting bogged
down by heavy-duty pain killers makes
for a more fulfilling life.
That is why he is working on a project
that he hopes will placate his doctor's
concerns about street-bought marijua-
na while keeping his medicine always
at hand: his own organic hydroponics
grow room.


See PAGE 8B


v.


