. NOT FULLY DEVELOPED
e MichiganThe Flaming Lips's Embryonic is epic
1y' rutin spirit, but not in execution.
SEE ARTS, PAGE 5
EE OINIO , PA E.
it i i a 4,3 t 1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, October 13, 2009

michigandaily.com

SECURING MICHIGAN STADIUM
* Big House
bans bags
for good
Permanent policy change will
allow police officers to focus
on other issues, official says
By VALIANT LOWITZ
Daily Staff Reporter
A ban on bags of any size at Michigan Stadium
duringhome football games is now permanent, the
Department of Public Safety announced today.
The policy, which was first implemented for
the Indiana game, extends to all bags, including,
but not limited to, camera bags, purses and fanny
packs. Exceptions may be granted for medical rea-
sons, but patrons are required to show documenta-
tion - a prescription or written authorization - to
security before entering the stadium.
DPS has instructed attendees to bring permitted
items that will not fit into pockets, like medicine
and medical equipment, in clear plastic bags no
larger than the gallon size.
Inan interview today, DPS spokeswoman Diane
Brown said the majority of items that are not pro-
hibited are children's necessities, like diapers and
bottles.
Brown said the new policy will allow police offi-
cers to focus on more important aspects of stadium
security.
"(Security) will be able to focus their attention
on other security measures and not be distracted
by a lot of bags and wondering what is in those
bags," she said.
Though no specific threats have been issued
toward Michigan Stadium, Brown said officials
from the office felt that the change in protocol was
See SECURITY, Page 3

COMING OUT ON THE DIAG

REGENTS PREVIEW
Endowment
tops regents
Oct. agenda
Two construction But with colleges around the
country posting record declines in
projects also on bill their endowments, it's unclear how
much the University of Michigan's
for meeting in Flint endowment was damaged by the
economic downturn.
By KYLE SWANSON Harvard University's endow-
Daily NewsEditor ment suffered a 27 percent loss
over its last fiscal year and Yale
At its monthly meeting Thurs- University's, endowment dropped
day on the University's Flint cam- by about 30 percent in value. The
pus, the Board of Regents will UniversityofVirginia, suffered a21
receive an updated report on the percent loss in its endowment.
University's investment portfolio, A decline in the endowment
including details on the state of the would be the first in a while for the
University's endowment. University. The last annual loss in
The report, submitted by Tim- investment returns for the endow-
othy Slottow, the University's ment was the 2002 fiscal year,
executive vice president and chief when the fund lost 6.59 percent of
financial officer, will outline the its value.
University's financial performance To protect the endowment from
for the last fiscal year - which instability in the market, Univer-
ended on June 30. sity officials calculate the value
The endowment, which is made for the endowment's payout based
Up of a litany of stocks and other on a seven-year rolling average -
assets, was valued at $6.5 billion meaning that they average togeth-
as of Dec. 31. Through its payout, er the value of the endowment for
the endowment funds financial aid every year over the last seven years
programs, academic departments in their calculations. This helps
and many of the other necessary to guard against volatile ups and
operations of the University. downs in the market, like the ones
At last October's Regents meet- felt over the past year with the eco-
ing, the endowment was reported nomic downturn.
to be valued at $7.6 billion, which The report on the endowment is
was a 6.4 percent increase from its traditionally given at the October
previous fiscal year. See REGENTS, Page 7

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily Read thefull story about the
A rally was held as the Diag yesterday to celebrate the start Diag rally onssutwebsite at
of National Coming Out Week. Above, Chris Armstrong, chair
of MSA's LGBT Commission, speaks tothe crowd. michigandaily.com.

An academic diagnosis for
health reform's public plan

U experts weigh
in on government
option's pros, cons
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily Staff Reporter
As the current health care
reform bill rattles its way through
the legislative process, Republi-
cans and Democrats alike con-
tinue to grapple with a central
question of the debate: whether to
create a public option or a govern-
ment-run health care alternative
for those who either can't afford
or lack access to other private
alternatives.
Proponents of the public option
argue that without some govern-
ment intervention into the health
care market, private insurers will

continue to drive up premiums
and other costs because they hold
near monopolies in many areas
throughout the country.
But the notion of handing even
a part of the nation's health care
system over to the government
has been a point of consternation
for some, who worry that bal-
looning fiscal obligations could
bog down the federal budget for
decades to come.
Amid these deliberations, The
Michigan Daily sat down with
five experts on health care reform
from the University's faculty to
discuss the debate between pri-
vate insurance companies and
publicly funded alternatives.
While some express concern
that a public option would bring
premiums and medical costs down
so low it would drive out competi-
tion and put private insurers out of

Members of the faculty's leading governing body at their meeting yesterday in the Regents Room of the Fleming Building.
'U, praises faculty fundraisers

STUDENT SALESPEOPLE
Hype help: Companies tap students

Red Bull, Microsoft,
Apple among those
using students to
plug new products
By DAVID TAYLOR
For the Daily
Thanks to the Internet'sfacilita-
tion of more rapid communication
a by way of blogs, e-mail and social

networking sites, consumer mar-
keting now has a fresh look. Com-
panies all around the world have
expanded their outreach by using
college students as representatives,
bloggers and local experts.
Kaplan Test Prep and Admis-
sions, Microsoft, Bianchi-Rossi
Tours, Red Bull and Apple are
among the companies that have
established such programs, and
all have tapped University stu-
dents to help.
Business Prof. Puneet Man-

chanda, who specializes in mar-
keting, said such initiatives are
an effective method of promoting
products to the next generation of
leaders and consumers.
"What they're tryingto do is win
some mind-share and heart-share
from the emerging generation of
young adults," Manchanda said.
"In this sense, peer marketing has
been shown to be quite credible.
People tend to trust their peers, so
it is a fairly sensible thing to do."
See CAMPUS REPS, Page 3

Professors donated
more than $100M in
Michigan Difference
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Alumni and friends of the Uni-
versity have been widely recog-
nized for helping raise $3.2 billion
in the eight-year Michigan Dif-
ference Campaign that ended last
year. But one donor group has
remained under the radar: Univer-
sity faculty and staff.
At yesterday's meeting of the

faculty's top governing body, the
Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs, Vice President
for Development Jerry May spoke
to the board about the faculty's
impact on the campaign.
Faculty and staff contributed
more than $100 million in cash
pledges and more than $60 mil-
lion in bequests to the campaign,
according to May.
Throughout the course of the
campaign, an advisory committee
from the University's Office of Devel-
opment collaborated on ways to seek
donations from University employ-
ees in an appropriate manner.
May said the development office

doesn't believe in "arm twisting"
to get people to give, adding that
the office makes sure department
chairs didn't ask for donations
from the faculty who worked under
them.
"We believe that philanthropy is
a voluntary act," he said. "We don't
believe that you should be asked by
somebody who is your superior for
a gift."
While May said faculty willingly
gavemoney,participationstretched
past reaching into their wallets.
During the last seven years,
about eight to 12 faculty mem-
bers traveled to alumni events in
See SACUA, Page 7


WEATHER ' HI:46
TOMORROW LO: 36

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS........ ..........2 ARTS...... .................5
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail One blogger's very own "Best Of" A2 restaurants. Vol. CXX, No. 26 SU DO KU...............................3 C LA SSI F EDS.....................6
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THETABLE m209 The Michigan Daily OPINION-...................,.......4 SPORTS ...............................8

'


2- Tuesday, October 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, October13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Where 12 tons of laundry go each week

As the director of the Uni-
versity's Laundry Services,
Rolando Croocks does more
than sort scrubs and bleach
linens.
He saves marriages, or so
he says, referencing an inci-
dent when he found a wed-
ding band that was left in a
pair of scrubs. But beyond
that, Croocks does clean a lot
of clothes.
The University Laundry,
located on North Campus,
processes about 12 tons of
laundry a week. The dirty
bundles come in from all over
campus - the University Hos-
pital, the Residence Halls, the
Michigan Union, the Michi-
gan League and any other
department that happens to
need laundry service.
The first official University
laundry building opened in
1891 on Central Campus and

cost about $54,000 to con-
struct. The location didn't last
long, however, and the laun-
dry moved all around Ann
Arbor until finding a home on
North Campus in 1970, where
it has stayed ever since.
Croocks'sprimaryoperation
is processing linen for all Uni-
versity Hospital in-patients,
including the hospital's vari-
ous satellite locations.
It is also one of two remain-
ing institutional laundry
services in southeastern
Michigan.
"The trend is now out-
sourcing or co-ops," Croocks
said. "But we remain com-
petitive because we're pro-
gressive, innovative and lean
in our approach to keep costs
competitive."
In2007, University Laundry
was voted Support Services
Department of the year. The

department's innovation is
evident in its machine-folding
of fitted linens and updated
systemoftransportingbags of
soiled laundry, which Croocks
said used to be something like
an archaic ski-lift.
The laundry employs about
170 people, according to the
Bentley Historical Library,
and is seen as one of the most
modern laundry systems in
the country.
Croocks expressed grati-
tude for the people working at
University Laundry.
"I'm very proud," Crooks
said. "It takes a special group
of people to work in laun-
dry ... I want to create an
atmosphere where people
feel appreciated, especially
because off-site workers don't
get to see the final product of
their labors."
- LIBBYASHTON

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA DANNEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Monagee
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs.1a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
.ettersto the Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classiefid@michigandaily.com
OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com

0

Finance

finance@michigandaity.com

The University's Laundry Services processes clothes from across many
parts of campus.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Martha Cook
window broken
WHERE: Martha Cook
WHEN: Sunday at about 11:15
a.m.
WHAT: An unknown person
struck a glass window on the
ground floor of the building,
leaving a large crack, University
Police reported. The damage is
valued at around $250.

Slow car crash
WHERE: Parking lot near 1100
Baits
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:15
p.m.
WHAT: A man reported that
he witnessed a vehicle back
into his car ioa parking lot at
a speed of 5-6 miles per hour,
University Police reported.
There were minor damages to
the car.

Pedestrian hit Sick student sent

Economic
crisis exhibit
WHAT: A new exhibit fea-
turing rarely seen historical
documents and archival
materials President Gerald
Ford inherited in 1974.
WHO: The Gerald R. Ford
Foundation
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Gerald Ford
Library, 1000 Beal Avenue
Rare fossil
WHAT: A new exhibit dis-
plays an extremely rare fossil
representative of what human
primate ancestors looked like
47 million years ago.
WHO: University of Michigan
Exhibit Museum of Natural
History
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Exhibit Museum
of Natural History, 1109 Ged-
des Avenue

BioArtography
WHAT: BioArt exhibit
featuringspecially stained
microscopic images of organ
growth, function and disease.
WHO: Arts on Earth
WHEN: Today from 12 to 6
p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Center
Translation
discussion
WHAT: Brown bag discus-
sion from Comparative Liter-
ature and American Culture
associate professor Christi
Merrill.
WHO: Comparative Litera-
ture
WHEN: Today from 12 to 1
p.m.
WHERE: Institute for the
Humanities
CORRECTIONS
Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

A first grade student was
suspended after bringing a
Cub Scouts camping uten-
sil that can be used as a knife,
fork and spoon to school, the
New York Times reported.
The student now faces 45
days in the district's reform
school.
The University decid-
ed not to make North
Quad Leadership in
Energy and Environmen-
tal Design certified because
it was too expensive.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION PAGE 4
Amotorist from the Unit-
ed Kingdom could face
fines of up to £2,500 for
inconsiderate driving after
he deliberately drove through
a puddle and splashed chil-
dren at a bus stop, the BBC
reported. Police received
complaints after a video of
the incident was uploaded on
YouTube.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacobl ilDvitz ainoagngNewoEitor amiloitz@michigandaily.co
Skole , tlewanso
ASSISessTmSEDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave EditorialPageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,ChrisMeszaros,RyanPodges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
SSlISTNTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaity.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIORPHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins,ChrisDzombakSamWolson
AngelaChih and designo@michigandai.com
Maureentych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.corn
Katherine Mitchell CopyChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJOzwiak SalesManager
SALES FE AN AusGER:Morlly Twigg
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben EnglishProduction Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad WileyProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daly(ilytsN0745-%7)ispublished Monday through Fridayduringthefalland winter
tems by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is avalable free of charge to allreaders.
Additionalcopies may bepickedupat the Daly'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor fallterm, startingin
September, viaU.S.mai are $10. Winter term(January through April) is $115, yearlong (September
through April)is$195.University affliates are subet to areduced subscription rateOn-campus
subscriptionsfor falltermare$35.Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.The MichiganDoaiyisamemberof
The AssociatPesandTheAsocatedCiat Press,.

by a car
WHERE: 1200 Murfin Ave.
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:40
p.m.
WHAT: A pedestrian was hit by
a car and sustained minor inju-
ries while crossing Murfin, Ave.,
University Police reported. The
victim wasn't in the crosswalk at
the time of the incident.

to hospital
WHERE: Mary Markley Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:45
p.m.
WHAT: A student called to
request an ambulance on
behalf of another student who
was experiencing non-alcohol
related illness, University
Police reported.

II I

Going to
the
Airport?
CUSTOM TRANSIT
We'll Get You There!
Low-priced, reliable, door-to-door.
Don't be left out in the cold.
www.customtransitcom
For reservations, go
on-line or call
(734) 971-5555

Start Your Career
n Accounting.
4~
Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA
for non-accounting majors.
.Earn two degrees in just 15 months.
.Competea 3-monthpaidresidencyat alading
accounting firm..
" Proven track record of 100% job placement.
Take the first step.
Visit our booth at the U. of Michican Graduate School Fair.
Date: October 15, 2009
Time: 4:00 - 7:00 pm
Location: Michigan Union
Learn more about the program and upcoming events at:
wwxw.1msambl~a.neu.edu.
617-373-3244
gspa@neu.eduU i
wwwtnsaba.neu.edu Northeastern Unversity

0
0

A a' B

f


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Poice step up patrols
after 11 arsons
Police are stepping up patrols in
an east side Detroit neighborhood
after11fires were setwithin90 min-
utes over the weekend.
The fires are believed to be con-
nected and come three weeks
before the annual citywide Angel's
Night observance when police and
volunteers are extra vigilant against
arsons.
The 11 fires happened on six adja-
cent streets between 5:30-7 a.m.
. Sunday. Seven of the houses were
vacant. Peoplelivedintheotherfour
homes. No injuries were reported.
Police spokesman John Roach
says the fires are under investiga-
tion.
Detroit officials are preparing
" for Angel's Night patrols over sev-
eral days around Halloween. Once
known as Devil's Night, the period
saw hundreds of fires set each year
to abandoned houses and buildings
in Detroit.
DETROIT
Obama transit chief
visits Detroit port
U.S. Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood says Detroit's planned
$22 million ferry and cruise-ship
terminal is a key part of revitaliz-
ing the area's economy.
LaHood joined Sens. Carl Levin
and Debbie Stabenow, Reps. John
Dingell and Carolyn Cheeks Kil-
patrick and Michigan Transporta-
tion Director Kirk Steudel to tour
the facility yesterday. It begins full
operations next summer.
The passengerterminal and pub-
lir dock on the Detroit River is get-
ting $7.1 million in federal recovery
money.
While in Michigan, LaHood is
meeting General Motors Co., Ford
Motor Co. and Chrysler Group
LLC officials for briefings on safety
technology the automakers are de-
veloping.
SEOUL South Korea
Report: North Korea
fires five short-range
nTis4Jsoffeastcoast
North Korea fired five short-
range missiles off its east coast
yesterday, news reports said, even
as South Korea proposed work-
ing-level talks with its communist
neighbor.
South Korea's Yonhap news
agency, citing an unidentified
South Korean government official,
. said the North test-fired two short-
range missiles yesterday morning
and three others yesterday after-
noon from mobile launch pads.
Yonhap said the missiles were
surface-to-surface KN-02 rockets
with a range of up to 75 miles (120
kilometers).
The reported launches were the
first since the regime conducted a
barrage of seven ballistic missile
tests in early July, and come despite
signs North Korea is reaching out
to rival South Korea and the United
States after months of heightened

tensions over its missile and nucle-
ar programs.
The South's conservative gov-
ernment has reciprocated by tak-
ing more steps to engage more with
the North, but shows no signs of
easing its pressure on the North to
disarm.
STOCKHOLM
Two American win
Nobel in economics
Americans Elinor Ostrom and Oli-
ver Williamson won the Nobel eco-
nomics prize on yesterday for their
workin economic governance.
Ostrom was the first womanto win
the prize since it was founded in 1968,
and the fifth woman to win a Nobel
award this year - a Nobel record.
The Royal Swedish Academy of
Sciences cited Ostrom "for her analy-
sis of economic governance," say-
ing her work had demonstrated how
common property can be successfully
managed by groups usingit.
Williamson, the academy said,
developed a theory where business
firms serve as structures for conflict
resolution.
"Over the last three decades, these
seminal contributions have advanced
economic governance research from
the fringe to the forefront ofscientific
attention,"the academysaid.
The economics prize was the last
Nobel award to be announced this
year. It's not one of the original Nobel
Prizes, but was created by the Swed-
ish central bank in Alfred Nobel's
memory.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

CAMPUS REPS
From Page 1
Minnesota-based travel com-
pany Bianchi-Rossi Tours has
specialized in spring break trips
to Mexico and the Caribbean
since 1987, and hires students
across campus as 'reps.'
Business sophomore Nick
Witte started working for
Bianchi-Rossi this year, and said
he has seen firsthand the benefits
of peer marketing.
"It's very straightforward -
kids are more likely to go on a
trip if their peers, and especially
friends, are promoting it," Witte
said. "It adds a degree of trust to
the entire transaction."
As arepresentative for Bianchi-
Rossi, Witte said he recruits
potential travelers, holds infor-
mational meetings, and answers
questions about spring break
travel packages.
"The other alternative would
be listening to an adult: someone
who knows all the information,
but isn't going on the trip," Witte
said. "It just makes sense."
Red Bull, the energy drink pur-
ported to "give you wings," has also
developedeffectivestudentmarket-
ing through its program Red Bull
University. The company has more
than 300 student brand managers
on campuses across the country.
The Red Bull University web-
site assures visitors that the job is
"not an internship."
"It's an opportunity to play an
integral role in building a global
brand, our brand, on your cam-
pus," the website reads. "It can be
as simple as providing Red Bull
for a party, or ... it can go a whole
lot further."
LSA sophomore Kristine Colo-
simo works as a Red Bull student
brand manager at the University
and helps to promote the com-
pany's bold and adventurous
reputation.
"The demographic - ages 17to
22 - is a huge consumer group for
the product," Colosimoexplained.
"Having Red Bull at the coolest
parties and throwing the best
events makes it stand out to those
of a college age."
One program in particular,
Microsoft Student Partners, has
experienced distinct success on
campus.
MSP was implemented at the
University in 2006 and is part of
a worldwide initiative that rep-
resents more than 90 countries
or regions with 2,488 partners.
Partners are typically undergrad-
uate and postgraduate students
who act as on-campus marketers,
bloggers and experts on every-
thing Microsoft.
Business senior Brian Hen-
dricks and Engineering senior
Daniel Gilmore work to spear-
head the Microsoft Student Part-
ners effort in Ann Arbor.

Since 2006, Hendricks and
Gilmore have collaborated to
ensure the program's success
at the University. Both students
use social networking sites, hold
tutoriais, organize events and
team up with University organi-
zations to promote MSP's three
primary goals of awareness, edu-
cation and experience.
"The program is really a way
to get the Microsoft 'word' out
on campus," Hendricks said. "We
try to make sure that students are
aware of new technology, soft-
ware and products and educated
on how to use their products to
the highest degree."
As a third-year student partner
of MSP and founder of a computer
manufacturing company in high
school, Hendricks said he under-
stands thebenefits ofthe program
on college campuses.
"A primary reason (the campus
program) was implemented was
to get closer to peers," Hendricks
explained. "Having the extension
of Microsoft to the college market
helps to better convey messages
on campus - one representative
on campus can reach thousands
of students through tools like
Facebook and Twitter."
However, MSP's goals extend
far beyond increasing its consumer
market to students. It provides
participants with real exposure to
relevant job fields, increases their
employability for the future and
seeks to provide an adequate tech-
nological education to all involved.
"We want to make a difference
and a broad impact on society,"
Gilmore said. "We definitely see
this as a way of doing our part in
the world, enhancing the educa-
tional experience for students in
the U.S. and also showing people
the new (material) that (Micro-
soft is) working on."
In an e-mail interview, Prasid
Pathak, Microsoft's student life-
style marketing representative,
described the many facets of
being an MSP.
"Microsoft Student Partners
get training from Microsoft on
new products and services,"
Pathak wrote. "We describe
them as social-media-twittering,
Xbox-playing, event-planning,
Tablet PC-slinging, tech-blog-
ging, smartphone-carrying,
PowerPoint-presenting, I'm a
PC-shirt-wearing, ninja-market-
ing college students."
With the recent release of
Mac's new operating system,
Snow Leopard, and the next gen-
eration of iPods, Microsoft Stu-
dent Partners must work harder
than ever, Manchanda said.
"The problem with Micro-
soft is that they haven't had the
coolest products recently," Man-
chanda explained. "They des-
perately need to keep discussion
going about their company and
its products, and this program is
a way to do that."

SECURITY
From Page 1
necessary for attendees' safety.
"Officers are warned about cer-
tain areas that continue to be cer-
tain threats, such as sports arenas,"
Brown said.
Officials first instituted a no-
bag policy in Nov., 2001 in the
wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. For
the 2002 season, security was
stepped up further, requiring stu-
dents to present MCards at the

gate for the first time.
That bag restriction was lifted
during the 2002 season.
Brown said prohibiting all bags
should help decrease the risk of
crime at games.
"It will reduce the potential for
people who wish to commit crimes
to create a problem," said Brown.
Other items like cameras and
binoculars are still permitted
provided they are not in a bag.
Stadium security reserves the
right to search all items brought
into the stadium.

Tuesday, October 13, 2009 - 3
The decision to tighten secu-
rity at the Big House comes after
federal agents arrested suspected
terrorist Najibullah Zazi in Den-
ver at the end of last month. Zazi
was believed to have been plot-
ting an attack on New York trains
with backpack bombs. Stadiums
across the country were alerted
at the time that Zazi could have
potentially been planning attacks
on sports venues, prompting sev-
eral to alter their security poli-
cies, including the University of
Michigan.


ON THE WEB,- ON TWITTER,
ON FACEBOOK AND IN PRINT
No matter the platform, the Daily is there.


CIe id i~ani ai1cP1

SNT

,, y. M, ,.. _
.

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arborhas to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


MichiganEngineering

University of Michigan's
Largest ___
Selection ,of REALTY
Units Available for Immediate Occupancy
Off Campusl Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to14 bedrooms
g ie616Church St. (734) 995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com


The Promise of
Green Technologies
Bill Joy
Partner
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
Co-founder
Sun Microsystems
Thursday
October 15, 2009
4 p.m.
Penny and Roe Stamps Auditorium
Adjacent to
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr.
Drama Center

5550MW


i

I

Fall Realty Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop students from
thinking about housing early, so why should you? Advertise
leases for now, May, and Fall 2a1o! Reach over 40,000
students and other University members.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.com

RUSH-
Pi Iota Chi
Christian Multicultural sorority, Inc.
Mass Meeting
October 15th 6pm-7pm
Room.2105A in the Union


i0

4 - Tuesday, October 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

L74C 1wlcht,4"pan 43at*lm

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATEOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR INCHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
Assembly required
MSA should pass policy to save time and focus on students

It is unfortunate that the president's star power
has outshined tireless advocates who have made real
achievements working towards peace."
- RNC Chairman Michael Steele commenting on President Barack Obama being
awarded the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize, as reported yesterday by CNN.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI | E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
That makes him the ferst "And do't w ryfl .
"All of us at W HO Radio President to win a NobeL a We'll be playing Obama ns
coegacausePreidet Tny t Congressiona Granney wineningnumber
Obama for winning the No Medal of I-Ino, and first on hit single as noun an he
bel Peace Prize" prize in Mrs. farmer's Annua records it Mose Ove Elvis,
--ft - - -
Going green, the slow way

S
0
0

ome students may recall' the mockery that the Michigan
Student Assembly made of itself last winter when it spent
several meetings debating the passage of a resolution on
the conflict in Gaza. In light of the derailment of MSA that result-
ed from discussing these issues at length, MSA is now consider-
ing a resolution that would focus debate by changing the policies
for hearing community concerns. MSA should approve the pro-
posal because it needs to focus on its true purpose - improving
life for students, not grandstanding on issues better left to world
governing bodies.

Tonight, MSA is scheduled to vote on a
resolution that would make changes to a
controversial portion of its meetings called
"community concerns." This portion of the
agenda currently allows any member of the
community, regardless of University affili-
ation, to voice opinions on any issue. The
proposed resolution would reduce the time
limit on each speaker from five minutes to
three minutes. It would also require any-
one without a valid Mcard who wants to
speak to apply two days prior to the meet-
ing. MSA executives would then deter-
mine whether or not the concern would
be heard. MSA representatives noted that
this policy is not designed to limit or even
stop community members from speaking
out about community concerns but rather
to cut down on wasted time.
While it may be unfortunate that MSA
needs to limit the community concerns por-
tionofits meetings,this change isclearlynec-
essary. Inthe past, community concerns time
has been monopolized by certain residents
who speak at length on numerous issues that
MSA has no business debating. No matter
how important conflicts in the Middle East
may be - and no matter how many students
may feel passionately about them - MSA's
resolutions on these issues don't accomplish
anything. Spending time on the inevitable

debate that ensues when these concerns are
voiced is a waste of MSA's time, and it justifi-
ably annoys the student population.
It is important for community concerns
to be heard. There needs to be a beneficial
and progressive relationship between the
students, community members and student
government in public meetings. But ask-
ing non-student community members to
apply beforehand is reasonable to prevent
the meetings from being monopolized by
unproductive debate. MSA leaders should
proceed carefully and ensure that valid,
pressing community issues are cleared for
discussion at meetings.
Students and residents have a right to
address the assembly, but they shouldn't
abuse this right to hijack the meetings of
a governing body that should be tackling
issues like campus lighting, rising tuition
costs and landlord-tenant agreements.
MSA can only play a more productive role
within the University if it concentrates on
these issues and stays away from foreign
policy. Passing this resolution is a good
way to ensure that MSA is able to get to
work fulfilling its true role.
With responsible leadership, this policy
change can only improve dialogue at MSA.
The assembly should vote to approve it at
its meeting tonight.

hile I wasn't exactly expect-
ing great things from the
State of the University
address Mary Sue
Coleman gave last
week to explain
University initia-
tives and plans for
the coming year, I
was perplexed by
Coleman's vision ,
of campus sustain-
ability. With the
creation of a special BEN
counsel to advise CALECA
on sustainabil-_
ity issues, it sounds
like the University
may simply be paying lip service to the
issue more than actually producing
real change. That view is furthered by
the fact that Coleman also declined to
sign the American College and Univer-
sity Presidents' Climate Commitment.
I cannot help but feel the University
believes the sustainability movement
does not require any cooperation.
The ACUPCC itself is an idealistic
but fairly reasonable document. Its
mission is to get colleges to inventory
their carbon footprint and implement a
long-term plan to mitigate greenhouse
gas emissions. Additionally, it asks
signers to make at least two concrete
goals such as makingnew construction
projects LEED silver or greater or get-
ting at least 15 percent of energy from
renewable sources. Coleman has said
that experts have deemed the whole
of the document as "unreasonable."
I'd be more likely to buy that argument
if I had an idea of what her rubric for
"unreasonable" was.
How can the University address
the sustainability issue on its own, if
not by collaborating with other uni-
versities and making specific goals
that may be too ambitious to reach
for? Some of the answers do lie in sim-
ple changes in policy and administra-
tion, such as the special counsel and
collaborations between University
groups that Coleman proposed in her
speech. But collaboration is only the
first step, and signs that concrete are
steps being implemented from the top

of the University down better show
a true commitment to sustainability
goals.
The first thing the University can
look at comes to mind when I think
of my friends sweating profusely in
dorms - regulate the damn heat bet-
ter. Pumping heat into dorms to make
them warmer than most people need
is both inefficient and costly. Most stu-
dents will end up opening windows in
the fall to keep temperatures bearable.
At the very least, ensuring thermostats
are adequatelyregulatingtemperatures
in buildings or implementing better air
conditioning systems could help with
this and make accommodations more
comfortable for students.
Speaking of dorms, every once in a
blue moon, the University offers "sus-
tainable" meals made from locally
grown products so they don't have as
high a carbon footprint from transpor-
tation costs. Schools such as UNC Cha-
pel P4ill have even used local sources
for as much as 20 percent of their food
in an effort to be sustainable. If the
University really wishes to get serious,
they should expand this program.
Then there are new construction
projects and LEED.. While North
Quad, currently under construction,
has some green features, Univer-
sity officials deliberately chose not to
make it a LEED-certified building.
And the much-touted Ross School
of Business' silver LEED rating lags
behind many other schools' shiny new
gold- and even platinum-rated facili-
ties. The reason we didn't go for more
systems? Adding nifty features like a
geothermal heating system would cost
extra money in the initial price tag,
even though such a system would save
money in the long run. It's a bit disap-
pointing to see us fall short on some
causes due to purely financial reasons
even if the payoff would be greater in
time.
For projects such as installing
geothermal heating units instead of
conventional systems for buildings,
costs can be recovered over time with
the energy saved, as I addressed in a
column last winter (The heat beneath
your feet, 01/19/2009). This is true for

a lot of other innovative, green build-
ing materials such as high-efficiency
windows and insulation that decrease
energy required for climate control,
which further lowers lowering energy
bills for heating. As these building
practices have grown more common,
studies such as one carried out by
the Urban Green Council have shown
that LEED buildings, if designed well,
cost the same per square foot as con-
ventional buildings but use far less
energy.
'U' has a long
way to go on
sustainability.
If the University wants to prove its
sustainability, it needs to start working
on green design from the foundation
up. Cement manufacturing accounts
for five toeight percent of global car-
bon emissions, and new materials
such as geopolymers can offer equal
or better structural performance with
one-tenth the carbon generation of
cements. While this material comes
at a slight premium, if the University
implemented this kind of material for
use in new construction, it would send
a clear message that we are serious
about sustainability.
It's difficult to weigh all the options
that must be considered when imple-
menting new initiatives. To an extent,
I can understand skepticism regarding
how groups should deal with sustain-
ability. But the University can't be a
leader on sustainability unless its will-
ing to make the leap to toward lofty
goals, even if some deem those goals
unreasonable at first. In the end, a Uni-
versity counsel, no matter how spe-,
cial; means nothing unless it can both
develop tangible plans and implement
them.
- Ben Caleca can be reached
at calecab@umich.edu.

0'

0
0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranaga, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Columnist shouldn't blame
whitesfor black homophobia
TO THE DAILY:
I am tiring of Matthew Hunter's consistently
incoherent and racist columns, but the article he
wrote about the black community and homopho-
bia was just too much. There is an apparent prob-
lem with homophobia in society in general, but
this view especially permeates the black com-
munity as evidenced by the result of the vote on
Proposal 8 in California. He partially sees that it
is a problem, but then lays the blame on "whites"
when he says, "This issue is related to whites to
the extent at which all injustices in the black com-
munity - from crime to poverty to the education
gap - have their roots in the historical relation-
ship between blacks and whites."
There is no other ethnic group that gets to
blame its behavior on oppression. I don't see
many Jewish Americans being homophobic or
racist and blaming it on the Nazis' terrible treat-
ment of their people or claiming that the Nazis
taught the to hate gay people. And that, by the
way, was a far more recent period of oppression
than the time of slavery in the American South.
Why, Mr. Hunter, would you allow the black
community to be a victim of their history? Like
it or not, the history of every nation is filled with
oppressors and victims, but the victims in those
societies don't typically blame their behavior on
bad experiences. Every individual is responsible
for their views and their actions. We do not live
in a country where irresponsible actions have no
consequences. Just as the southern white com-
munity had to take responsibility for slavery,
the black community should take responsibility
for its homophobia and other problems they see
within their community.
Sarah Doukakos
LSA junior
Daily was right to support
gender-neutral housing
TO THE DAILY:
A recent Daily editorial offered welcome sup-
port for a gender-neutral housing option at the
University (Opposites attract,10/12/2009).
More than 35 years ago, the Intercooperative
Council offered to provide a "gay co-op" for les-
bian and gay male student occupancy. Fearing

that residents in a designated "gay co-op" might
be harassed, the Ann Arbor Gay Liberation Front
suggested that all co-ops welcome lesbian and
gay male residents.
Today, some co-ops may house one or several
LBGTQ students. I am not aware that such stu-
dents have experienced stigma or assault in their
residential settings. Were a co-op to be desig-
nated as "queer," "LGBTQ" or "gay," I hope its
residents would be safe from harassment. The
University must continue to provide education
on concerns of gender identity, genderexpression
and sexual orientation in support of the diversity
that enhances our environment..
Jim Toy
The letter-writer is the co-founder of the Spectrum
Center.
"Survival of the fittest"
attitude in Fishbowl is wrong
TO THE DAILY:
If you watch HBO's "Curb Your Enthusiasm,"
you may have found a few laughs in my Larry
David-esque momenttoday as I franticallyssought
out a computer on the Mac side of the Fishbowl.
Every time one computer appeared to be free, or
someone seemed to be packing up their belong-
ings, I ran over in that direction. Yet time and
time again, some sly, scheming, Fishbowl lurker
swooped in before I could claim hegemony on the
workspace. This carnage ensued for something
like 10 minutes, until I eventuallygot lucky. Unfor-
tunately, Ins certain that this scenario sounds all
too familiar to many of my fellow students.
So, 1 feel inclined to propose a VERY SIM-
PLE solution to this insanely frustrating pro-
cess of finding a computer during Fishbowl
rush hours: a fully integrated queuing system.
ICTS needs to set up two computers at the front
of the Fishbowl, one for Macs and one for PCs.
if all computers are full, you sign in your name
and as a computer frees up, voila, your name
appears on a screen, along with a Pavlov Dog-
style "ding" sound indicating that a workspace
has opened. This will ensure greater efficiency
and, more importantly, fairness, on a first-
come, first-served basis.
Delicatessens all over the world have figured
this one out already. Pick a number and wait
your turn.
Eitan Ingall
LSA senior

KATE STENVIG |
Don't censor community concerns *

Our University's long-standing commitment to free
speech and diversity of ideas is now facing a new attack,
this time from some of our elected student leaders. This
Tuesday, the Michigan Student Assembly is considering
a resolution to impose arbitrary political censorship and
drastic limits on the portion of its meetings that is devot-
ed to community concerns. The resolution purports to
"modernize" MSA meetings, and the rationale presented
for this draconian proposal is that some members of the
University community have used their allotted time to
yell at the assembly.
Yelling? Really? My, how sensitive! While manners are
often an indicator of social class, neither poor manners
nor low class should exclude anyone from participating
in the democratic process, nor should elected represen-
tatives be spared their criticisms. This should be obvi-
ous to anyone remotely acquainted with the principles of
democracy. The proposed resolution is a blatant attempt
to silence any difference of opinion and demonstrates
that the authors of the resolution deserve to face more
yelling, not less.
Especially disturbing is that the resolution would give
the executive board power of censorship in determin-
ing which items are a "topic of interest" for the assembly
and which are not. But on quite a few occasions, whole
groups of minority students, including black and Arab
students, have approached the assembly only to be told
that their concerns are not relevant to students - mean-
ing not relevant to white students. The real message in
each of those cases was that the minority students them-
selves were irrelevant. No such abuse of power should
be permitted from any member of any democratic body.
Minority students, in particular, have been the targets of
these abuses.
Then there is the rule of arbitrary censorship against
all non-student members of the community. Having to
apply two business days in advance and hope that the
czars of the assembly grant you an audience is ridiculous.
Dozens of student organizations work with people from
our community and from around the world. The quality
of life of every student is directly affected by the actions
of professors, administrators, local officials and world-
P.h

renowned politicians. There is indeed life outside the
bubble of this campus. If the assembly has any intention
of combating the rising costs of higher education, defend-
ing and expanding financial aid programs, reversing the
drop in underrepresented minority student enrollment
and ending the military's drain on precious potential
funds for education, does anyone really think that we can
accomplish any of these things without working along-
side people from outside our student body? And if there
is no intention of accomplishing such things, then what
on earth are these anti-free speech tyrants doing in our
student government in the first place?
Far from modernizing the assembly, the proposed
resolution would transform our student government into
somethingmore like an ancient despotism. Unfortunately,
that would be painfully consistent with the recent actions
of the MSA leadership, in recent years, which include
giving the Steering Committee (which is not elected by
the student body) the veto power to prevent any resolu-
tion from being discussed by the assembly; maneuvering
behind closed doors to remove opponents from elections;
creating an Internet group to degrade and insult a dis-
abled representative; engaging in shady financial transac-
tions; and attempting to disenfranchise the entire School
of Public Policy by not permitting it to have even a single
representative. We can't afford to leave organized student
democracy ii the hands of those who are trying to destroy
it by transforming it into a bureaucratic playpen of snob-
bery and impotence. It has been much better - it can be
much better.
We must turn to the future. Our membership in this
student body grants us unique opportunities to change
our world for better or worse. The current economic
crisis is taking its strongest toll on the poorest and most
disadvantaged students, many of whom are struggling to
stay enrolled and many of whom are still in grade school
and struggling to attain any higher education at all. We
must not allow the construction of an ivory tower to
seclude our student government from those who most
need it.
Kate Stenvig is an MSA representative from Rackham.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 13, 2009 - 5

The Lips freak out

Palming the classics

Wayne Coyne and
co. go wild over the
course of two discs
By JOSH BAYER
Daily Music Editor
In the words of Flaming Lips uber-
man Wayne Coyne: "Somewhere
along the way it
occurred to me that **
we should do a dou-
ble album ... Just The'
this -idea that you Flaming Lips
can weave a couple F
of themes into there Embryonic'
and you can sprawl Warner Bros,
a little bit." Embry-
onic sprawls a lot. It also meanders,
spaces out and - occasionally - suck-e
er punches you in the cerebellum.
The record suffers from a clas-
sic case of double-album syndrome.
From a band that's been so chroni-
cally consistent in its songwriting,'
Embryonic is a disappointing mix of
songs that are songs and songs that Hairiest exorcism ever.
are ideas. The record is the "fear-
less freaks" at their most mind-jar- Another momentum-killer is the
ringly experimental, but much of the nearly six-minute "Evil," the album's
experimentation here is fruitless, second track and first omen that this
clogging up the album's flow with is going tobe a record with skippable
whacked-out filler. songs. The track starts out somberly
Embryonic is stocking-stuffed on sleepy synth drones, drifts into
with "mood" pieces that sound like an equally sleep-deprived chorus,
they should be 45-second interludes indulges in some squelchy bass puls-
but are stretched out exhaustingly to ing and then repeats the same exdct
the three-minute mark. "Virgo Self- process all over again. Coyne's vocals
Esteem Broadcast" is like a five-min- are pretty watery here, both sonically
ute sleep hypnosis tape for absurdists, and lyrically: "I wish I could go back
with wildlife noises, space-opera ooh- / go back in time / But ni one ever
ing and ahh-ing and some guy who really can / go back in time / Oh, I
sounds like Dumbledore solemnly would have shown you /tthose people
intoning "This is the beginning" over are evil / and they'll hurt you if they
and over again. "Scorpio Sword" is can." While this sort of ethics-for-
an endless build-up of monomaniacal dummies songwriting works when
drum rolls and false-start guitars arti- the band is operating in fun mode,
ficially resolved with the last-minute Embryonic's more "serious" vibe
intervention of melodramatic strings makes Coyne's color-by-anumbers
and harp trickling. sermonizing feel facile.
The majority of the album's instru- Although the album's uncharac-
mentals are like texturally rich sonic teristic shortage of saccharine hooks
blueprints begging to be charmed (there's not one bona fide "pop song"
into actual songs. Sure, they all sound on the whole record) is compensated
pretty "trippy," but these extended for in adrenaline on the album's hard-
atmospheric gags purae the album's er, groovier songs, too often does the
momentum. band fall into the trap of vaguely mor-

The other day I read James Joyce's short
story "Araby" on my iPod Touch. The first
time I read it, I was 15. I was ina high
school English class taking in the words from
the grimy printed page of a hand-me-down text-
book - one with "J LOVES
P" scrawled on the page ends.
And now, as a post-teenager,
I've taken it in again, this time
in a cafe on the screen of a
portable device.
One of the main differenc-
es? The printed page is bigger "WITNEy
than the screen - on the iPod,P
I am encouraged to take in W
"Araby" in small gulps, a hundred or so words at a
time, due to screen size and font size (the bigger it
is, the less I squint, which is a good thing). On the
page, however, my perspective is wider: I can see
the printed landscape of the story unfolding, fore-
seeing phrases like "I lingered before her stall"
lying in the paragraph breaks ahead.
This idea of certain technological mediums
breaking things into smaller bits is intriguing
to me - not just in the amount of text presented
on something like an iPod or a Twitter feed, but
in our conceptions of time being broken down
into smaller and smaller portions. I noticed that,
in the short minutes taken waiting in line at
Cafe Ambrosia to order a medium Chai Bomb, I
could quickly boot up my iPod Touch and check
my e-mail (WiFi permitting) or, instead, read a
"page" of "Araby" in its entirety.
The idea of time management has changed, as
a short period of time can now be given to what
we'd like to call "productivity," or this constant
imbibing of information in tiny sips from portable
devices like Blackberries or iPhones. I recently
talked to a friend of a friend, who mentioned that
she got the newsflash of Obama's Nobel Peace
Prize on her phone at around 6 a.m. the day of
the announcement. In that usually groggy-eyed,
hazy-minded, hallucinatory minute one takes to
brush one's teeth in the morning, I presume she
was catching up on current events that occurred
between midnight and wakefulness.
This idea of smaller, productive chunks of
time is somethingthat can be applied directly to
e-books themselves. This past weekend I attended
the Future of the Book Symposium, which was
hosted by the University's Clements Library, the
U-M Special Libraries Association and the School
of Information. It was at this conference that I
came to see various panelists' perspectives on the
life, or death, or neither, of books.
Mary Sauer-Games, the vice president and
head of Higher Education Publishing for Pro-
Quest LLC (the online research-oriented database
compilingvast quantities of scholarly informa-
tion), brought up an interesting point during her
lecture: E-books are, in fact, beingused differ-

ently than paper books.
The research she presented by the Joint Infor-
mation Systems Committee, which is devoted to
studying the effects and usage of the e-book, was
somewhat expected from personal experience,
but the numbers were still surprising. Based on
surveys completed by 22,437 people between
Jan. 2008 and summer 2009, of the 12,014 who
did read e-books, 54.7 percent admitted that they
"dipped in and out of several chapters" when they
read the texts online.
This means that more than half of those sur-
veyed have been skimming e-books, which pres-
ents some insight into the usage of the book itself:
These digital books are not necessarily being read
cover-to-cover (so to speak) for an immersive
experience, but being used to provide an extrac-
tive experience - one where readers use e-books
to quickly find and collect information. It seems
like even books themselves now are bending
to our wills and our free time, providing us the
resources we need when we need them. All of this
is contrasted with the fact that, pre-Internet, one
had to bend one's self (walking through the snow
to the library) and one's time (writing away sev-
E-books get skimmed,
not devoured.
eral hours of the weekend to stay there and study)
to the gathering of information.
So maybe e-books, for now, are fulfilling a dif-
ferent utilitarian niche for book readers, provid-
ing a subtle but noticeably different experience
from the paper page. As with a lot of technologies,
including blogs and Twitter, we have become
accustomed to usingtechnology as a means of
connecting us quickly with mass amounts of the
information we want. But at times we care more
for quantity of informationthan the depth of that
information.
Joyce's "Araby" still remains an immersive
work of literature, even on my iPod at Cafe
Ambrosia, with its vivid images of the fair and
the cold autumn evening, but as an e-text, it was
a world that filled in the gaps of my time, where
the unfolding story was interrupted by a barista
handing me a stout mug of spiced chal. Perhaps
the role of technology today is to provide us with
what we want quickly. And perhaps the paper
book, in its antiquity, still carries connotations of
a time where we would diligently set aside time to
let the book take us to places, instead of the other
way around.
Pow tried to read James Joyce on a her
Gameboy, but ended up catching a Pikachu.
Congratulate her at poww@umich.edu.

alizing lullabies. Breathy sing-a-long
"If" and vocoder-addled robo-ballad
"The Impulse" feel like auxiliary back-
ing melodies compared to the band's
signature symphonic harmonies.
Still, there's something cohesive
and brilliant lurking amid the pink-
flamingoed folds ofEmbryonic's spotty
indulgence. Somewhere in this mess is
a fantastic 30-minute krautrock-funk
fusion album. Demonically throbbing
rhythm-fiestas like "Convinced of the
Hex" and "The Sparrow Looks Up at
the Machine" sound like Can exorcis-
ing the Talking Heads at a cantina
in hell. And yes, this is a good thing.
Embryonic taps into a spiny, visceral
darkness but muffles it in a heap of
tie-dyed meandering. -
A great double album is rarely
cohesive - The White Album is little
more than a sprawling anthology of
five-star songs. But on Embryonic this
sprawl often leaks from the arrange-
ment of the songs to the songs them-
selves. Still, there's enough prime
psychedelia here for listeners to edit
their own significantly slimmer cuts
of what should have been.

I BELIEVE IT WAS TIGGER
WHO SAID, "THE
WONDERFUL THING
ABOUT DAILY ARTS IS
DAILY ARTS IS A
WONDERFUL THING."
Write for Daily Arts.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an application,

.1

Visit our booth at the
Graduate School Fair
to learn more about over 50 graduate programs
in the arts, education, humanities, sciences, and

Tuesdays Are South The Border
CoronalSollModella/Pacifico Specials All Night
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
*25% Off M xiccsn Fare All With NO COVER
310 Me nscd St. -Tn O Orders 134.995.01110 -NexI in Ihs May nd rict Sitrulure
H E. ' .

Your Path
4f F Continues at Lehigh.

The College of Arts and Sciences at
Lehigh University seeks graduate
students who will contribute to a vibrant
community of scholars and join us
in exploring knowledge and practice
through innovative research. Experience
ihe individual attention usually found
in a small, liberal arts college; yet take
advalntage of state-of-the-art laboratories,
libraries and research facilities offered
only at a premier research university.

Stop by our table at the
Graduate School Information Fair
on October 14 or discover
us online at
http://caslehigh.edu/discover.
LEHIGH

Discover Our Degrees in:
American Studies - M.A.
Biological Sciences - Ph.D.
Chemistry - M.S., Ph.D.
Clinical Chemistry - M.S.
Earth and Environmental
Sciences - MS., Ph.D.
English - M.A., Ph.D.
Environmental Policy
Design - M.A.
History - M.A., Ph.D.
Mathematics - M.S., Ph.D.
Photonics - M.S.
Physics - M.S., Ph.D.
Political Science - M.A.
Polymer Science and
Engineering - M.S., Ph.D.
Psychology - M.A., Ph.D.
Sociology - M.A.


0,

6-Tuesday, October 13, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

RECORDS FOR SALE. 33 1/3, 78.
$1 each. 81I0-635-2232.

CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
060
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vote haths. All-new, famnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat a umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
!!!! 4 LG. Bdrm. house. 5 person.
Mary C. at IM bldg. Ldry., prkg. May-
May $2210. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM4 APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunrootm, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.

Realty
Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop
students from thinkingsabout housing early,
so why should you? Advertise leases for
now, May, and Fall azo! Reach over40,o
students and othereUniversity members.
Presentedby The Michigan Daily Classieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
dailyclassifled@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Cent-al Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Freb parking. (248) 910-2286.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Yur attntin please!
ampds Management, Inc. invites yea
to visit www.CampsMgtcem, te best
localwebsite for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. ots of 2 bedroom
aps. and smaller available tool All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and somse in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phote to
schedule a personal showing itis our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL 9//10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion.te. ., I bdrm., and 2 dn sapt. /
security buzer. Landry facility &sep-
arate stoage lockers. GOllatin Realty
Cu. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.

Now Leasing fo May/Fall 2010

Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immediate Ocupacy Aalable
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
ane , Pzza /na~e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
wwwarchrealtyco.com
AVAILABLE NOW 1 or 2 bdrm. on
S. Forest near South U. 734-996-2836.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished'
fiee parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Lua at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Staditm. 248-318-9759
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,W/D in unit,
$950/mo., all appliances, water in-
cluded. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkian i@gmail.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
Now Leasing
for May 2010:
Large 2 Bedroom Apts!
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
iofo@postrealtyproperies.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkgno pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengg/comcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking inluded. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail, at the cower of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW IS THE time to reserve your
Apartment for 2010/2011. Stop by Uni-
versity Towers to secure your apart-
ment TODAY! 734-761-2680.

UnivrIty
Plan Ahead!
Reserve your housing with
University Towers!

Rising above U-M Central
Campus, University Towers
offers fully furnished rooms,
studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom
units. Included in the rent
is heat, water & amazing
high-rise style amenities.
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Fishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
RESERVE YOUR APARTMENT to-
day with University Towers. 2 Bed-
rooms starting at only $1259.00 and I
Bedrooms at $553.00. 734-761-2680.
Management
625 Church St.
(7341 66t-1100
Now taking reservations
for fal 20101
Studios. 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 brms & Houses
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Camps/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm.
341 E. Jefferson-8 bdrm.
www.keysmanagement.net
AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

(734)
7.64-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
serviCes GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
080 exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE, STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp. Paid survey takers needed in A2.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
ti Cets & travel
55 58 57SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
an 64 Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed'
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
an 6 Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
an 7t 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel com
annoUnCements
hel pwane 120
LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS to
help save and protect history and open
spaces on Mackinac Island. Needed
I!lBARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten- also active involvement of professors
iat. No cap. nec., training provided and departments, to help to save areas
AGL 18+-OK. 800-965-6520 a 125. on the state park island, which has a
unique history and importance, nation-
ATTENTION STUDENTS ally, but especially, because it is owned
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser- by us, to Michigan. 1-866-MAC-ISLE
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Cale, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.comi
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply c@
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NECTO IS ACCEPTING applica-
tions from energetic STUDENTS for:
Bartender, Cashier, Waitress, and Door-
person. Please apply IN PERSON, at
516 E. Liberty Mon-Wed from 12-4pm.
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
$300-$500. Get on the ground floor..
Act Now! http://www.ps101.info

0

I I

1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Harry Potter's 35 "_, vidi, vici": 46 Rabbit
1 Magic amulet creator Caesar's boast look-alikes
5 With 13-Across, 4 Bit of granola 36 Mountain goat's 47 Smooths, as
"Lonely Boy" 5 Bamboo-eating perch hair
singer critters 39 Words after 48 Smidgen of
9 UPS deliveries 6 superiority: "Look, Ma" sand
requiring obvious 40 Sanctified 49 Tests by lifting
payment confidence 41 Way beyond 53 Greek "i"
13 See 5-Across 7 Juan's "one" pleasingly plump 54 Vintage Jaguars
14 Ship to 8 Was in first place 42 Prez on a penny 56 Planet
remember 9 King Arthurs 44 Kind of electricity 57 Toy magnate
6 Windum tO iraffe rnlativu 45 Big name in Schwarz
treatment 11 "Leeat!" garden care 58 Like cool cats
asupport 12 Like a catty ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
8 Christmas trio remark
19 "_ Beso (That 14 Expensive furs D A F T S A T E S Z A P S
Kiss!)": 5- & 13- 17 Dance company O D I E C H E S T O R S O
Acrosshit founder Alvin L I R E A O R T A N E S S
0 Prefix with China 21La., on old U.S. C O M P A N Y R E T R E A T
1 Lukewarm maps E S S E N A S I A
2 Proced 23 Bugin a colony E N A C Y A
cauinusly 24 " Said": Neil E T N A C Y P R D 5
6 The flu, for one Diamond hit B E D S E M I S T O R O
8 Dynamic start? 25 Minimum-range E A R L Y W I T H D R A WA L
9God tide TROY DEERE S L O
0 Most intelligent 26 March 15th, e.g. A P P E A L D E B T
4 Loooong time 27 First of 13 popes
35 Blockernof 30 " Believes in T A I L E R A T 0
offensive TV Me": Kenny C 0 M M U T E R F L I G H T
material Rogers hit JOKE N A M E R K A R T
7 Penn & Teller, 31 Hisnnamewound E R R S C L O N E E P E E
e.g. up on a lemon T E A S H O N E D S E E R'
8 "Put your John 32 Plaintiff
Hancock on this 33 Partnerof turn xwordeditor@aol.com 10/12/09

For Wednesday, Oct. 14, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
During the next few weeks, all your
relationships will improve! You'll find it
easy to express your affection to others.
(How nice.)
TALURU S
(April 20 to May 20)
You might get a raise or some praise
from your boss or co-workers in the next
month. Many of you also will enjoy your
job more than usual.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Romance, love affairs, vacations, par-
ties, sports, the arts and playful activities
with children.- all the fun stuff- get a
lovely boost during the next several
weeks. Enjoy your good fortune.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Relations with family members, espe-
cially parents, will improve in the next
month. This is also a good time to redec-
orate. Entertain at home!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
In the next month, you'll appreciate
the beauty of your everyday surround-
ings more than usual. Relations with sib-
lings and relatives also will improve.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Your cash flow is picking up! Either
you're earning more money, or
somehow money is coming your way.
Of course, this could mean you're buy-
ing beautiful things for yourself and
others.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
The next few weeks are a great time to
shop for wardrobe items. Basically, you
like yourselfmore because you like what
you see in the mirror.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Seek out solitude in beautiful sur-
roundings. Dive yourself some private
time during the next few weeks. You
need to do some gentle but serious think-
ing.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 221o Dec. 21)
All group activities and meetings will
go extremely well in the next few weeks.
You feel confident and secure in your
way of dealing with others. You want a
win/win solution.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Romance with the boss is possible in
the month ahead. This is also a time
when others might ask for your creative
input about things.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Travel for pleasure definitely appeals
now. See if you can get away during the
next several weeks. You also want to
learn more or go back to school if you
can. You want more out of life.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You can attract money to you through
others, especially partners. Meanwhile,
back at the ranch, intimate relationships
are heating up in a sweet and lovely
Way.
YOU BORN TODAY Your calm com-
posure is like a voice of reason in the
middle of a storm. People trust you and
respect you. Naturally, your measured
approach to life lends stability to your
own world, and the lives of those around
you. Nevertheless, you're ahard worker!
This year, powerful doors will open for
you. Next year, something will end to
create room for something new to enter.
Birthdate of: Roger Moore, actor; Ron
Lancaster, quarterback/coach; Natalie
Maines, musician.

0

CO 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

line" 2
41 Desert rest stops
43 Chaplin's fourth 19
wife
44 Weepy people 16
46 Sports show 19
stple .
50 Orderly display
51 Has a meal
52 Bepuir 2an
55 Reddish horse
56 No longer in 29
trouble
59 Oklahoma city 3a
60 Numerical
relationship
6! One-named
Decomarit
62 Personnel dept. 4 n4
lDs
63 Greenish-yellow so
pear
64 Treo and b
Phones, briefly
DOWN 92
1 Riot squad spray
2 Weighty I tl
obligation (C200

2 3 4 fi $ 7 a 9 10 11 12
14 1s
17 18
20 21
22 23 24 25
27 28
30 31 32 33
3fi 3$ 37
39 40 41 42
43 44 45
r
17 48 49
81 52 S3 54
fib 57 58
$0 $1
63 64
ed Jackson 111 10113/09
9 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

PRESE NTS THE
Online (Clasuified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

0

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication
Rates: $4,30 per line for the first issue and $2,15 per line for each
addlitiorialconsecutiveissue
" Frequencyand Bulk contracts are available-contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one oflour Account Executives



I


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 13, 2009 - 7

OFFICE HOURS
From Page 1
He added that itcis the uninsured
who currently drive up health care
spending by waiting and only seek-
ingmedical attentionwhen a problem
gets critical and very expensive to fix
- allwhile the insured cover the tab.
"When the uninsured in America
need to get health care and can'tepay
for it, then the people with coverage
end up paying for that care through
higher premiums," Davis said.
Besides the possibility that the
government will corner competi-
tion, opponents of the public option
are also concerned that insuring
the high-risk uninsured will drive
up health care costs for everyone
else. But, according to Dean Smith,
senior associate dean of the School
of Public Health, those with pri-
vate insurance are already footing
the bill for those patients.
"Just because they don't have
insurance doesn't mean they don't
" show up at the emergency room,"
Smith said.
Smith is part of a team at the
University that has had firsthand
involvement with the legislation
making its way through Congress.
He works at the University of
Michigan Center for Value-Based
Insurance Design, which helped
develop the concept of value-based
insurance.
The idea, which was included in
the bill, advocates that the value of
the patient's clinical benefit should
be equal to the amount of money
spent. For example, cosmetic sur-
gery, which holds relatively small
value for health, would be more
expensive.
But despite the public option's
potential for immediate cost-effec-
tiveness, some economists and pub-
lic health experts are concerned
with the legislation's possible long-
term economic ramifications.
Many who are critical ofthe new
legislation point to the evolution
of Medicare, which has changed
steadily since its institution in 1965,
and subsequently increased the
government's role in determining
pricing for health care.
"When Medicare first started,
(the government) said Medicare
would not be in the business of
setting hospital prices," Smith
explained.
The most recent addition to
Medicare was Part D, which
allows the government to setcpric-
es for prescription drugs.
Smith said he is concerned the
gov<rnmwnt will execute the same
strategy with the public option,
and that within a few years the
government could be paying med-
ical professionals less.
"With the ability to set prices
paidto providers, the public option
may be lower cost to employ-
ers and employees," said Public
Health Prof. Richard Hirth.
"The downside risk is that if
payments under the public option
approach current Medicare rates,
providers'willingness to participate
maybe jeopardized,"he added.
Smith argued that not only
would this pose a threat to the
nation's economy, but the notion
of lower prices for doctor and hos-
pital visits as well as prescription
drugs could jeopardize the future
advancement of medicine.
"Cross incentives are what
allows the research and develop-
ment and progress," Smith said.
"We're willing to pay more now
as part of our investment toward

what the future will look like."
Though many opponents of the
public option claim it would hurt
* the private sector during an eco-
nomic crisis, Smith said the public
option would decrease national
health care spending by increas-
ing the number of insured and
offering better coverage.
He added that with more than
40 million.new insured custom-
ers, even with lower premiums,
the numbers would even out.
"The threat of the public option
is enough to get insurance compa-
nies to bring prices down," Smith
said. "The nice thing about a public
option is that we save money today."
But despite the increased num-
ber ofinsured,Susan Goold, associ-
ate professor of Internal Medicine,
expressed concern that if the leg-
islation passes, Americans will
someday have to pay higher taxes
rather than higher premiums.
The solution to that problem,
she said, is to "make policy that
says that's not going to happen."
Mark Fendrick, associate pro-
fessor of Health Management and
Policy, who also works at the Val-
ue-Based Insurance Design office,
said the private sector doesn't
adequately serve the public's
needs, which is why so many are
uninsured and under-insured.
"Some certainly would argue
that there are certain times
where government involvement
isn't always a bad thing and
that a plan with the purchasing
power of the government can
clearly enhance competition and
markedly reduce overhead and
other profits that come with the

administration," he said.
Fendrick said that with govern-
ment intervention prices for health
insurance would drop, as many
insurers are currently operating
in near monopolies. According to
a report in The New York Times,
there are nine states where a single
insurer covers 70 percent or more
of residents. In Hawaii, for exam-
ple, one insurance company covers
78 percent of people and in Ala-
bama, it's 83 percent. And inat least
17 other states one insurer covers at
least half the population.
While some point to Medicare
and Medicaid's perceived faults
as potential pitfalls of the public
option, others, like Smith and Davis,
point to the programs as govern-
ment successes to be modeled.
Smith notes that though people
who qualify for Medicare are given
the option to choose between the
government-run plan and private
plans, very few customers go with
the private option.
Davis said Medicare has been
good for the health care economy,
which he said indicates that the
public option wouldn'thurt the pri-
vate insurance sector and the over-
all health care economy.
"Medicare as a government pro-
gram has served as acore source of
revenue for U.S. physicians who see
adults for the last 40-plus years,"
Davis said. "(Medicare) provides
reimbursement for people who
see doctors very often. If you're in
the business of health care, that's
exactly what you want to see."
He added that though Medicare
and Medicaid often end up covering
high-risk patients, there are unin-
sured individuals who are not elder-
ly or poor who still need coverage.
"Doctors want to provide care
to people who can pay," he said.
"And people can pay when they
have coverage."

REGENTS
From Page 1
regents meeting. But unlike nearly
all other documents that are slated
to be discussed at regents meet-
ings, which are almost always
released on the Monday before
a regents meeting, the Univer-
sity will not publicly disclose the
report until the meeting.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said though the num-
bers are prepared in advance of
Thursday's meeting, traditionally
the University has not released the
figures publicly until the meeting.
TWO NEW CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS
The regents will also consider
two new construction projects on
campus at the meeting.
The first project will replace
the Central Power Plant's existing
water treatmentsystem. Expected
to cost $2.6 million, the project
will replace water demineralizers
with reverse osmosis units and
will increase system capacity.
The project is expected to lead
to increased energy efficiency at
the power plant, and if approved,
is expected to be finished by the
winter of 2011.
The second project would
update the Administration Servic-
es Building electrical feed, build
a 650-square-foot enclosure and
install a new substation for the
building. If approved, construc-
tion on the project is projected to
be finished fall of 2010. That work
is estimated to cost $2 million.
THREE MORE LAWSUITS ON
LITIGATION REPORT
The regents will receive their

monthly litigation update at the
meeting Thursday. In the last
month, three new lawsuits have
been filed against the University.
According to the litigation
report released yesterday, Andrei
Borisov - a researcher at the
Medical School until last Septem-
ber - has charged the University
with defamation, assault and bat-
tery, false imprisonment, interfer-
ence with a contract, fraud and
malicious prosecution.
Last year, Borisov alleged sci-
entific misconduct, claiming his
work had been plagiarized and
misrepresented in an attempt to
secure grant money from federal
agencies.
As stated in the regents' liti-
gation report, Borisov claims
that he was arrested by Univer-
sity Police following a meeting
with his supervisor and that he
was detained in a jail cell at the
Department of Public Safety on
charges of trespassing and resist-
ing arrest. Borisov was acquitted
of all charges in April of this year.
After the acquittal, Borisov said
he was told he was ineligible for
rehire at the University because of
his prior arrest.
Asked about the ongoing situ-
ation at last month's meeting,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said she would not com-
ment on the matter.
The other two lawsuits were
brought by students at the Univer-
sity's Dearborn and Flint campus-
es. A lawsuit by former Dearborn
campus student Mary Lee seeks $2
million after she was expelled for
an apparent violation of the Stu-
dent Code of Conduct. The other
suit, being brought by Stephen Tri-
podi, a student at the University's
Flint campus, seeks more than $40
million for alleged gender discrim-
ination by the University.

- - - ------ members to California for the first
SACUA time this April.
From Page 1 At the meeting, Robert Frost,
SACUA member and associate
Palm Beach, Naples and Sara- professor of Information Stud-
sota, Fla. - three of the Univer- ies, agreed with May that faculty
sity's largest alumni and donor members can have a significant
populations. influence on donors. He said he
At these events, faculty gave saw similar results when he gave
academic lectures and met with lectures during Alumni Associa-
nearly 400 alumni to discuss their tion tours last summer.
latest research. "During those tours, it's pretty
The University Office of Devel- clear that faculty doing exciting
opment paid for the travel expens- presentations to alums is a very
es. Though it was costly, May said powerful sort of way to get people
it pays off in the end. to donate," Frost said.
"It costs a bit of money to do Since the Michigan Difference
this - to have 12 faculty members Campaign ended last December,
travel, plane flights and every- the development office has been in
thing else - but we find that all post-campaign mode - focusing
it takes is a couple hundred thou- on thanking the 372,931 donors.
sand dollar gifts and million dol- But fundraising is still going on,
lar gifts, and it stimulates those May told the group.
relationships," he said. "Hopefully, we're goingto raise
Most of the people who come to between $200 and $300 million
the events are large donors who, (this year) forthe traditional kinds
May said, leave with a renewed of needs that we do for people that
sense of philanthropy after hear- haven't been exhausted by the last
ing interesting presentations campaign," he said.
about stem cell research, the In his 29 years in fundraising,
presidential campaign or African May said he has found faculty
American history. members and students to be the
"They have a new appreciation two key factors that encourage
for the quality and caliber of the people to donate and make goals
faculty members that reinforces achievable.
their commitment to the Univer- "In my experience, there are
sity," he said. two things that make the big-
While similar seminars have gest difference in a donor feeling
been organized on campus - more philanthropic...being stimulated
than 50 alumni attended one a ' by exciting, vibrant students and
few weeks ago - the development knowledgeable, articulate facul-
office will take a dozen faculty ty," he said.
BECOME A FAN OF THE
DAILY ON FACEBOOK
And get instant updates on our top stories.

Graduate
4:00 to 7:4
at the Mic

Be sre to visit our information table at the
grad school fair
REALIZING
I-i IKAA PATFITIAI

The world urgently needs problem
solvers capable of integrating
environmental, social and
design sciences in the pursuit of
sustainable societies. With master's
programs in nine fields of study, from
Aquatic Sciences to Sustainable Systems, and
dual-degree programs wsith Law, Business and
Engineering, the School of Natural Resources
and Environment sets the standard for
interdisciplinary graduate education

A


0

8 - Tuesday, October 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Forcier suffers concussion at
Iowa as shoulder injury lingers

After disappointing
opener, 'M' offense
wakes up Saturday

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
As freshman quarterback Tate
Forcier left the Michigan locker
room following Saturday's 30-28 loss
at Iowa, he walked slowly with his
eyes almost fully covered by a white
Michigan beanie.
At the time, he just looked upset
about the loss. But Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez said Monday that
Forcier suffered a light concussion
on his last play, an incomplete third-
and-14 pass where he was pressured
by Iowa defensive end Adrian Clay-
born.
If Forcier is medically cleared by
Wednesday, he will start against
Delaware State this Saturday, Rodri-
guez said.
"I don't think it was a severe one,
but he still has a headache today,"
Rodriguez said. "I know everyone
wants to talk to him after the game,
but when you're a true freshman and
you've got a pretty good headache
and tough ballgame, I hope y'all can
realize you need a few days to deci-
pher that."
Rodriguez won't know until today
the severity ofthe concussion.
The concussion did not affect
Rodriguez's decision to play fresh-
man quarterback Denard Robin-
son on the Wolverines' final drive,
because Rodriguez did not know Freshman Tate Forcier suffered a mild con
about the injury at the time. der. Even though it limited the signal
However, Rodriguez had noticed caller in practice on Mondays and
something different in Forcier's Tuesdays leading up to Michigan
demeanor. Forcier had led three State and Iowa, he still started each
comeback drives in five games, but game.
the bright lights of a night game are But Forcier's brother and room-
particularly hard to deal with after mate, Jason, said Monday that the
sufferinga concussion. shoulder may be a bit more of a con-
"On his last play, he got hit pretty cern than it has been thus far.
good," Rodriguez said. "So he wasn't "His shoulder is more injured than
- you could tell he was not quite I think the public realizes," Jason
himself afterwards. ... You could tell said. "It's the same thing (Oklaho-
a little bit on the sidelines at the end ma quarterback) Sam Bradford did.
of the game, and again, today this Maybe not as severe, but an AC joint
morning, he came in for treatment is an AC joint. Once you injure it, it's
and still had a little bit of a head- hurt for the rest of the year."
ache." Bradford sprained the AC joint in
Injuries have hampered Forcier his throwing shoulder in the Soon-
since Michigan's last win against ers' season opener on Sept. 5 and did
Indiana,-during-which-h injured not returnuntilthis past Saturday.
his right - and throwing - shoul- "(Tate)'s being tough," Jason said.

ing number of them in football as
a whole. Earlier this year, the NFL
publicly acknowledged for the first
time its players' cognitive declines
due to head injuries.
"I don't know if there's anything
more you can do," Rodriguez said.
"The helmet manufacturers are
doing all they can to havea safer hel-
met. But I think what's happening is
these youngguys are gettingsomuch
bigger, stronger and faster.
"And when you get these young,
strong athletes hitting each other at
full speed, it's like a car wreck. I don't
want to say it's - it's never going to
be completely unavoidable."
CISSOKO SUSPENSION: Rodri-
guez also clarified the suspension
of sophomore cornerback Boubacar
Cissoko, who started Michigan's first
four games but did not travel with
the team to Iowa.
After the game Saturday, Rodri-
guez said Cissoko was "suspended
for a violation of team rules."
"When he comes back, it's really
up to him," Rodriguez said. "He's
got certain things he's got to do, on
and off the field, academically and all
that, and if he does that, he'll be back
sooner rather than later."
On Monday, Rodriguez clarified
that it was more than just an aca-
demic issue.
"It's a couple of other things, but
that's part of it," Rodriguez said. "It's
important to him, I know that. Play-
ing football is important to him. And
I think his academics are important.
But to what level? It has tobe at the
right level.
"Talking to our academic folks,
and he was doing things he's sup-
posed to do there for the most part.
But it's a daily thing, so we'll see."
Last week, Cissoko ran drills with
the practice squad, and was "pretty
good," according to Rodriguez.
"He'll continue to do that until he
does all the things that he has to doto
get unsuspended," Rodriguez said.
Junior cornerback Troy Wool-
folk is confident Cissoko will return,
though he didn't talk about the rea-
sons behind Cissoko's suspension.
"He's a fighter, he'll be back,"
Woolfolk said.

Five
in 6
ma
ANC
ing nea
for a w
Michig
of a s
in trou
been sh
iar CC]

Wolverines score video after (Friday's) loss, you
could tell when we passed the
i-1 blowout after puck, we weren't moving after.
We weren't getting open. We
ngajs ents weren't making it easy to get the
puck back."
By TIM ROHAN Five different Wolverines
Daily Sports Writer scored Saturday, and Michigan
was 2-of-3 on the power play
HORAGE - After travel- after going O-of-2 against the
rly 3,000 miles to Alaska Nanooks.
ceekend tournament, the The vast amount of players
an hockey team's hopes who pose a threat of scoring for
uccessful weekend were the Wolverines' this year could
ble. The Wolverines had prove to be their biggeststrength.
sut out Friday by a famil- Michigan had six players score
HA foe, goals in the

MAX COLLINS/Daily
ncussion in Saturday's loss at Iowa.
"But he's playing against guys that
are over three times his size."
Jason told Tate to "be smart"
when it comes to dealing with his
shoulder injury.
Rodriguez assessed Forcier's
shoulder a bit differently Monday.
"His shoulder really limited his
practice time the lastcouple of weeks,
but it didn't bother him too much in
the game," Rodriguez said. "Even in
warm-ups, because it's a little chilly
out there, I thought Tate would take
a while to loosen up. But really in the
warm-ups, he said it felt pretty good.
Even though he got treatment on it
after the game, I don't think it both-
ered him as much as it did the week
before."
In light of Forcier's concussion,
Rodriguez discussed the grow-

Alaska-Fair- double digits
banks, in their "To like last season.
season opener. play "Guys were
So what we played doing their
did they do? W"" y responsibili-
Michigan took (Frida ) ties and doing
matters into rl ay was what they were
its own hands, embarrassing." supposed to
got aggressive * do," Summers
and dominat- said. "I think
ed Saturday that makes a
againstAlaska- huge differ-
Anchorage - something the Wol- ence, when you got a guy on any
verines just couldn't do Friday. given line that can go out every
"We weren't really paying the shift and give it their all and get
price to score," Michigan coach back off the ice and wait for their
Red Berenson said of Friday's turn again."
loss. Berenson said that the team
The Wolverines certainly certainly played with more
cashed in on Saturday. intensity Saturday night. The
Michigan scored two goals team was matching Alaska-
by being active. Senior forward Anchorage hit for hit. A lack-
Brian Lebler deflected the puck luster performance Friday had
into the net off a shot from senior the Wolverines reeling, but a
captain Chris Summers, and few adjustments later, Michigan
freshman forward Chris Brown matched the aggressiveness of 0
knocked in his first goal as a Alaska-Anchorage and gener-
Wolverine off of a cross-ice shot ated an offensive spark.
from junior defenseman Tristin Everyone was relieved to sal-
Llewellyn. vage the weekend.
Unlike Friday, Michigan made "We made a long trip up here,"
it a point to screen shots in the Berenson said. "And to come up
second game. The team was mak- and play like we played (Friday)
ing things happen around the was embarrassing for our team.
crease. And they knew that. And I knew
."When we didn't have the that. And it was easy for me to
puck, I thought we were moving," remind them and to remind them
junior forward Matt Rust said -f of- Wt have to ptffto-'1re
the offense Saturday. "Watching good team."

0

Public Education to the Highest Degree

0

Highly regarded doctoral programs
'he Graduate Center is the principal
Ph.D.-granting inlstitttion of' the CvIy
University of' NeW York. Many of' the
Graduate Cener'.s more than thirty doctoral
programs are regularly mlanked ameong the
best in the country.
Renowned teacher-scholars
Over the last decade, the Graduate Center
has added doz ens of world-class scholars to
its already eminent factalty roster. lFive
faculty menmbhers were aWarded Guggenheim
Fellowships this year alone.
Fellowships for incoming students
About 300 fellowships available to first-year
students provide each recipient with
$18,000-$24,000 a year for five years, plus
tuition remission and low-cost health
insurance.
The heart of New York City
Located across from the Empire State
Building in one of the world's most
cosmopolitan environments, the Graduate
Center offers students a wide range of
research opportunities and presents myriad
cultural events.
Please visit www.gc.cuny.edu to learn more
about this remarkable institution.

0

-b
B
*2

CU

;



