ONEI-ILII ) ET1-ii) N YEARSP t IMOFEY0I.IA.1, 1) )A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, April 13, 2009

michigandaily.com

THE BEGINNINGS OF A TRADITION?

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA rules
for funding
get mixed
results

Members of the Michigan football team leap up and slap the GO BLUE M Club sign as the Wolverines enter this year's Spring Game at the Big House on Saturday. Attendance
for the game topped more than 50,000 people - a new record. For more on the game and what it means for the team's upcoming season, see SportsMondayinside.
FOOTBALL SATURDAYS
AthleticDept. extends tcket deadline

Sor
lea
too
One
Aseml
distrif
group
make
dent o
money
revam
at the'
But
given
eiws,
proce:
for g
while
the pr
compl
LS:
the l
Snide
Sprin
and h
MSA,
ing fu
still in

ne student group "a waste of time."
"It is very confusing. It is not
ders say process clear what the different commit-
tees do or how they determine
complex, others how much money they are giving
you," Snider said.
ay it works well Former MSA Treasurer Lisa
Averill said, however, that the
By EMILY ORLEY process is made clear to student
Daily StaffReporter organizations who apply for fund-
ing.
e of the Michigan Student "We pretty clearly outline our
bly's primary purposes is entire process for them," she said.
buting funds to student "And if they come to office hours
s that need the funding. To or anything, we're always willing
the process easier for stu- to go over it with them in more
rganizations to obtain this depth."
y, the assembly completely The funding application is
ped its funding application made available online at the
beginning of last semester. beginning of each fall and win-
 so far, student groups have ter semester. Around this time,
the new process mixed rev- the chairs and vice-chairs for the
some contending that the Budget Priorities and Community
ss provides a vital resource Service Committees hold office
roups during hard times = hours and funding workshops to
others complaining that help student organizations apply
ocess is still too opaque and for funding.
icated. For many student organiza-
A junior Brad Snider is in tions, navigating this process
atter of the two groups. hasn't been hard. It has, however,
r, who led an Alternative proved pivotal to the functioning
g Break team this semester of their groups, especially as tra-
ad to request funding from ditional funding sources back out
said the process of obtain- of giving because of tough eco-
nding from the assembly is nomic times.
nefficient and, quite simply, See MSA, Page 3A

Officials: Football
student season ticket
extension not because
of last season's record
By ERIK TORENBERG
Daily StaffReporter
While the Athletic Department
extended the deadline for students

to purchase season football and
basketball tickets to tomorrow, offi-
cials from the department stress
the decision had nothing to do with
the football team's 3-9 record last
season.
In an e-mail from Marty Bodnar,
associate director ofticketing sales,
sent last Thursday, the Athletic
Department announced that the
deadline for purchasing 2009 stu-
dent season football and men's bas-
ketball tickets would be extended

to tomorrow, April 14.
Calling the notion that lastyear's
abysmal season had anything to do
with the extension laughable, Ath-
letic Department spokesman Bruce
Madej highlighted the attendance
at this weekend's annual spring
game - more than 50,000 - as a
clear sign that fans still support the
program.
Madej wrote in an e-mail to The
Michigan Daily that Saturday's
attendance was "double what we

might have considered our best
numbers ever for a spring game in
our entire history."
"Ifa 3-9 season was going to be
bothersome for 2009, I think that
might have been visible today," he
wrote Saturday.
Madej said the Athletic Depart-
ment does not know if the current
economic climate will have an
impact on ticket sales, but that it
is concerned and has made adjust-
See TICKETS, Page 7A


ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SERIES, PART 1 OF S
Our energy future: Wind

STUDENT ENTREPRENEURS
Start-up lets fans invest in bands

Editor's Note: The perils of our
country's energy dilemma are well
known and often discussed. As the
nation's best scientists, engineers,
businessmen and policymakers work
to come up with a solution, one thing
is becoming ever more clear. The
tonic to our nation's energy illness
will not be one catch-all, but, rather,
the combination of budding indus-
tries of alternative energy - the
* fruits of"energy diversity." Over the
nextfive days, we will take a look at
how a variety of these developments
in different types of energy are play-
ing out on campus and in the greater
Ann Arbor area. Through this series
we hope to get a glimpse of what this
area's best researchers and entrepre-
neurs are doing to solve America's
energy quagmire.

By MATT AARONSON
DailyStaffReporter
In2008, morethan120gigawatts
ofenergy were generated fromwind
around the world, according to the
World Wind Energy Association, a
global nonprofit that works to pro-
mote wind energy technology.
However, a recent University of
Delaware study estimated that 72
terawatts (1 terawatt = 100 giga-
watts) of commercially viable wind
power is available.
That means that, as a planet,
we're only using about .17 percent
of the potential wind energy on
Earth. It also means that, if utilized
correctly, wind energy could satisfy
the world's total energy needs five
times over.

With the current economic cri-
sis and the United States' increased
dependence on foreign oil, it is now
more crucial than ever to tap into
this abundant and free natural
resource.
But you don't have to tell that to
the state of Michigan.
With 3,288 miles of coastline -
more than any other state except
Alaska - Michigan is currently in
a prime location to harvest its wind
potential. And there are many peo-
ple in and around Ann Arbor who
are working to do just that.
The day after signing a Memo-
randum of Understanding to mark
a collaboration with Denmark's
Minister of Climate and Energy
last month at the Michigan League,
See WIND ENERGY, Page 7A

Students design humble beginnings.
Typically, it's a romantic story
website where fans about four young misfits who set
up in the basement of the drum-
fund up-and-coming mer's parents' house and drive
the neighbors nuts as they experi-
musicians ment with their sound, write a few
songs, play a few gigs and end up
By MATT AARONSON with hoards of loyal fans following
Daily staffReporter them as they tour the country.
But it all comes to a halt one day
Bands who end up on maga- when the van breaks down on the
zine covers love to talk about their road and there's no money left to

fix it.
But what about the screaming
fans? Couldn't they have helped?
A group of guys here at the Uni-
versity think so.
A new Internet start-up from
University students aims to help
passionate music lovers support
their favorite artists by pledging
working capital to help finance
projects like albums, tours and
music videos.
See START-UP, Page 7A

BUSTING A MOVE IN THE BALLROOM

THE RULES ON TEACHING
Prof. charged in prostitution case will
return to the classroom next semester

Rules for return
dictated by crime
and its relation to
job, students
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
Associate Prof. Yaron Eliav, who
was charged with a misdemeanor
for his involvement in a prostitu-
tion case with a female student in

the Law School, is set to return to
his teaching position next fall.
Eliav, whose felony charges were
brought down to a misdemeanor
in December, is scheduled to teach
History 277: The Land of Israel/
Palestine through the Ages during
the fall term.
In April 2008, Eliav paid a
University Law student $300 to
perform sexual acts after she
advertised herself on Craigslist.
com, according to a Dec. 12, 2008
Ann Arbor News article.
The 22-year-old student report-

ed that while she and Eliav did
not have intercourse, the encoun-
ter became dangerous when Eliav
allegedly slapped her twice across
the face with a belt, the article said.
While Eliav was originally
charged with prostitution/accost-
ing and solicitation, he pleaded no
contest to the misdemeanor charge
of using a computer to commit a
crime. In December, he was sen-
tenced to 12 months of probation.
Prof. Gary Beckman, the chair of
the Near Eastern Studies Depart-
See PROFESSOR, Page 7A

WILL MOELLER/Daily
Participants in the Master the Art 6th Edition competition perform on Friday in the Michigan League Ballroom. The hip-hop
event consisted of a 5-on-5 break-dancing tournament and 1-on-1 popping tournament.


WEATHER HI: 54 GOTA NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW L0: 3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Michigan hoops gets first commit of 2010 class.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

IN D E X N E W S................. ................ 2 A A R T S.....................,............. S5A
Vol. CXIX, No.128 SUDOKU ......................3A CLASSIFIEDS ......................6 A
©9nTheichia Daily OPINION ...... .. 4A SPORTSMONDAY.................1 B

,



2A - Monday, April 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 9I

2A - Monday, April 13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
 Other Towers Campus Characters

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Explained Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

ASU refuses to give Obama honorary degree

v'T ""NTN(T nN """A CT TR R

Arizona State University will not
award President Barack Obama an
honorary degree when he gives the
University's commencement speech
on May 13, ASU's online newspaper,
asuwebdevil.com, reported.
ASU spokeswoman Sharon Keeler
said in the article that the Univer-
sity awards degrees to recognize
the accomplishments of individuals
throughout their lifetime.
"Because President Obama's body of
work is yetto come, it's inappropriate to
recognize him at this time," she said.
Keeler said past recipients have not
necessarily been affiliated with ASU
but have had life-long established
careers.
Last year, James Duderstadt, Uni-
versity of Michigan president emeritus
and a professor of science and engi-
neering, received an honorary degree
from ASU for his international leader-
ship in higher education.
Although Obama will not receive
a degree from ASU, the University of

Notre Dame will present him with
one when he gives their commence-
ment address May 17.
DIXIE STATE REMOVES
REBEL MASCOT
Dixie State College of Utah
replaced Rodney the Rebel - their
Confederate mascot - with a black
bull called Ragin' Red, The Chroni-
cle of Higher Education reported.
In a 5-to-4 vote, college trustees
decided to officially change the mas-
cot in an effort to welcome diversity as
Dixie State switches from a communi-
ty college to a four-year university.
Steve Johnson, director of public
relations for the university, said in
The Chronicle article, "The trustees
felt that the names Dixie and Rebel
together would hinder that future."
Rebel fans have expressed oppo-
sition on the Internet to their new
nickname Red Storm, and officials say
they may be willing to compromise by
choosing a different mascot.

TUFTS STUDY FINDS ALCOHOL
HELPS BONES
A study at Tufts University has
found that some alcoholic beverag-
es may decrease aging effects, The
Tufts Daily reported.
The research found that moderate
consumption of beer and wine may
help maintain bone density.
Researcher Katherine Tucker said
hard liquor hasa minimal effect.
"Wine and beer are not as finely
distilled (as hard liquor), so beer
contains vitamins and silicon, which
are protective of bones," she told
The Tufts Daily.
Results showed that postmeno-
pausal women who drank more than
two beers a day exhibited a five to eight
percent higher bone mineral density
than women who did not drink.
However, the article warns that
heavy drinkingcan also leadto osteo-
porosis and a higher risk of breast
cancer.
- STEPHANIE STEINBERG

A member of the crowd that gathered for the Lungev-
ity walk o Saturday signs a posterr remembrance
ether family members. The event raised mare than
$14,000 for lang cancer research.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GHACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:Sun.-Thurs.tt:.nm.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaity.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts ection arts@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandafly.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
lacob SmiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caittin Schneider,
Lind Stevens
ASSIS T NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel VanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSSTNSOS EDITORS:RyanKartjeIanKay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
Alex Prosperi, Colt Rosenweig
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michiganday.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandailycom
tif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTOEDITORS:Said Alsatah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: MaxCollins, Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,SamWolson
AngelaChihand design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGNEDITORS:Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell CopytChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisingSalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski Classified sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber onlineSales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichigan Daily(ISSN0745-967)ispublished Mondaythrough Friday duringthefalland winter
termssbystudents at the University of Michigan.One copyis available free of charge toallreaders.
Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupatthe Dailysofficefor$s2.Subscriptionsfor falland wintertem
t(sptesbe toAil)vaU.S.mlaroo.ea-rusubscrptsns(alliterSpinand
Ssmteresared T$2 t subscaiptidonsmustepressid. The Mii nuiynsa seebe
Asnmcated PrssandThesociated Cllegiatrss.

CRIME NOTES
Biker hit by Three MIPs
moving vehicle issued at Bursley'

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Talk on genocide Free HIVtesting

WHERE: Art and Architecture
2000 Bonisteel
WHEN: Friday at about 11:50
a.m.
WHAT: A male student was
hit by a vehicle unaffiliated
with the University, University
Police reported. The biker sus-
tained no serious injuries.

WHERE: Bursley Residence
Hall
WHEN: Friday at about mid-
night
WHAT: Three subjects were
given MIPs, University police
reported.
ATv ;nr L k aa

Man sells stolen v
MDen keychains alcohol mt
WHERE: Central Campus Big House
Diag
WHEN: Saturday at about 7:45 WHERE: Michigan;
p.m. Section 39
WHAT: A man unaffihi- WHEN: Saturday at;
ated with the University was p.m.
arrested for stealing key chains WHAT: Two visitor
from the MDen and then selling alcohol into Michiga
them on the northwest corner University Police rep
of the Diag, University Police visitors were given a
reported. warning.

.eaK
o the
Stadium
about 1:15
s brought
n Stadium,
rorted. The
verbal

prevention
WHAT: Ms. Maria Stavro-
poulou, a consultant to the
Special Representation of
the Secretary-General on the
Prevention of Genocide, will
discuss the development of
genocide and the dilemmas
on international justice and
peace.
WHO: Inter-Humanitarians
Council
WHEN: Tonight from 5:30
p.m. to 7"p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Amphi-
theater
Ralph Williams
lecture
WHAT: One of the last lec-
tures by Golden Apple award
winner Ralph Williams.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Natural Science
Auditorium

WHAT: Free and anonymous
HIV/AIDS testing.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 3200
CORRECTIONS
* An article in Friday's edi-
tion of the Daily (Students
abroad in Italy unaffected by
earthquake) inaccurately stat-
ed that the Office of Interna-
tional Programs contacted all
University of Michigan stu-
dents studying abroad in Italy
to nake sure they were safe.
In fact, the OIP contacted all
students on programs run by
the OIP itself, not all Univer-
sity students in Italy. An Art
& Design junior quoted in the
story was on a program not
run by the OIP.
* Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

The capybara is close to
becoming endangered in
some parts of Venezuela
due to its high demand leading
up to Easter, BBC.com report-
ed. The animal is under threat
because Roman Catholics in
Venezuela eat the large rodent
as a substitute for red meat
during Lent.
Julea Ward, a gradu-
ate student at Eastern
Michigan University, was
recently dismissed from her
graduate program because her
personal beliefs clashed with
the administration.
>>FOR MORE SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
A Saudi Arabian judge
refused to overturn a rul-
ing stating a legal mar-
riage between an 8-year-old
girl and 47-year-old man,
UPLcom reported. The judge
declared the girl could file for
a divorce when she reached
puberty. The girl's father
arranged the marriage to pay
off a debt to his close friend.


Sunday school teacher's family stunned by arrest

Teacher arrested
in the killing of an
8-year-old girl found
stuffed in suitcase
TRACY, Calif. (AP) - Relatives
of a Sunday school teacher arrested
in the killing of an 8-year-old girl
found stuffed into a suitcase said
Sunday they are baffledby the accu-
sations against the woman they
know asa loving, single parent.
"I just can't comprehend.
There are no words," said Brian
Lawless, the father of 28-year-old
Melissa Huckaby, who is being
held in San Joaquin County Jail
on suspicion of kidnapping and

killing Sandra Cantu.
Lawless met with reporters out-
side Clover Road Baptist Church
in Tracy, where the family held
Easter services. The church is just
down the road from the mobile
home park where Sandra lived and
was last seen.
Huckaby's grandfather, Clif-
ford Lawless, who is pastor of the
church, and others offered prayers
for Sandra's family.
Some churchgoers cried as
Huckaby's uncle, 45-year-old Brett
Lawless of Lakewood, gave a ser-
mon preaching that faith was the
only way to weather hardship.
"How can you look at a circum-
stance like this and have any hope
for the future? I tell you, because I
know who God is," he said.

Huckaby's relatives said they still
do not know why police searched
the church or why investigators
suspect her of the crime.
Investigators searched the
church last week after police said
Sandra's body was found in Hucka-
by's suitcase in an irrigation pond.
Brian Lawless said Huckaby
lived for her 5-year-old daughter,
Madison.
"She just always had an extra
patience with her. Never raised her
voice. Never yelled. Never struck
her," he said. "She was that same
way with other children. She loved
other children."
Madison played often with San-
dra, who lived down the street
from where Huckaby lived with her
grandfather. Huckaby taught Sun-
day school at her grandfather's
church.
Huckaby was on suicide watch
at the county jail, where she

remained in custody Sunday with-
out bail.
Huckaby's uncle, John Hughes
Jr. of Whittier, told The Associated
Press his niece was from a good
home, but had hit a rough patch in
her life and had moved in with her
grandparents in Tracy to get past
her troubles.
"They opened their home up
to her to try to get her life back on
track, I think a lot of families have
problems like that," Hughes said.
Huckaby grew up in Orange
County and was a "pretty normal
kid," he said. As the eldest of nine
grandchildren, she played "moth-
er hen" to the younger children
when the family got together for
the holidays.
After graduating from high
school, Huckaby's path appears to
have become rockier. She married,
had a daughter and was divorced in
a few short years.

Sri Lanka's president
suspends attacks on
Tamil Tiger rebels

0

for more information call 734/615-6449
IThe University of Michigan College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts presents a
public lecture and reception

President Rajapaksa
restricts operations for
two days during the Sri
Lankan New Year
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP)
- Sri Lanka's president ordered
a two-day suspension of offen-
sives against Tamil Tiger rebels
to enable tens of thousands of
trapped civilians to leave the war
zone, his office said yesterday.
President Mahinda Raja-
paksa directed the armed forces
to restrict operations during
the April 13-14 Sri Lankan New
YearY to a defensive nature and
renewed his call to the rebel
group to "acknowledge its mili-
tary defeat and lay down its
weapons and surrender," a state-
ment said.
He said the rebels must
renounce violence permanently.
The president's call came amid
increasing international pres-
sure on the government to protect
civilians trapped along with the
remaining guerrillas in a gov-
ernment-declared "no-fire" zone
Spring/Summer
STUDENT CO-
Community Living b
2 & 4 Month Spring,
(Fall/Winter 8-month c
Low Monthly ci
-Single
-Full or partit
-All utilities
- Laundry, par
Inter-Cooperati
734-66
WWW.il
Save some cash - n

measuring just 7.7 square miles
(20 square kilometers).
The U.N. says about 100,000
civilians are trapped in the war
zone with dozens dying every day.
The government and aid groups
accuse the rebels of using civil-
ians as human shields and have
called for their release. The rebels
and rights groups have accused
the military of firing into the
safe zone - a charge the military
denies.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-
moon said he would have liked to
see a longer halt, but said the gov-
ernment plan was a "useful first
step and an opportunity to move
towards the peaceful and orderly
end to the fighting now so badly
needed."
In his statement, Ban called on
both sides to respect the pause in
fighting.
HLe said the rebels must allow
civilians to move out of the zone,
while the government must treat
them in accordance with interna-
tional standards.
Britain welcomed the govern-
ment announcement, but said it
was vital that rebels also observe
the suspension.
Spaces Availablel
OP HOUSING
or College Students
/Summer Contracts
ontracts also available)
harges include:
room
al meal plans
and Internet
ing and more!
ve Council (ICC)
2-4414
c.coop
hake some friends!

I

Mfi@DiLO
John T. Groves Collegiate
Professor of Chemistry

Tuesday, April 14, 2009
Alumni Center, Founders Room
4:10pm

LSA

.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 13, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DEARBORN, Mich.
" Man kills woman,
self at Michigan
community college
A community college student
apparently used a shotgun to kill
an aspiring actress and dancer Fri-
day on the campus west of Detroit
where they attended class together
before killing himself as police
rushed to the scene.
Officers heard a gunshot as
they rushed inside a Henry Ford
Community College building and
discovered the bodies of 20-year-
old Asia McGowan of Ecorse and
" 28-year-old Anthony Powell of
Detroit in a classroom.
"Nothing like this has ever
occurred on campus," said Marjo-
rie Swan, vice president/control-
ler at the school, which was locked
down as police and campus secu-
rity worked to secure the area.
 Police responded after a 12:30
p.m. emergency call of an assault
and received reports of gunfire
while en route, said Dearborn Dep-
uty Police Chief Gregg Brighton.
They set up a perimeter around
the MacKenzie Fine Arts Center,
where police say a theater class
McGowan and Powell took was
held earlier Friday.
DOVER, Del.
Remains of 5 killed
in Iraq sent to Dover
The remains of five Army sol-
diers killed by a suicide bomber in
Iraq were expected to arrive last
night at Dover Air Force Base.
The bomber driving a truck deto-
nated aton of explosives near apolice
headquarters in the northern city of
Mosul on Friday, killing the men
in the deadliest attack against U.S.
" troops in more than a year. The U.S.
military said Iraqi police were the
bomber's target and that the Ameri-
cans were caught up as bystanders.
Two Iraqi policemen also were
killed in the midmorning blast near
the Iraqi National Police headquar-
ters. At least 62 people, including
one American soldier and 27 civil-
ians, were wounded, officials said.
It arks the fourth time the media
has been allowed to cover the arriv-
al under a new Pentagon policythat
requires getting family permission.
An 18-year ban on press coverage of
fallen U.S. service members ended
a week ago.
LONDON
U.K. considering
paying for old cars
The British government is con-
sidering giving consumers a cash
bonus to trade in their old cars and
buy new ones in an effort to help the
country's ailing automotive indus-
try, newspapers reported yesterday.
A similar plan in Germany has
given auto sales there a big boost,
with one German auto industry
group saying that new car regis-
trations in the country in March
soared to their highest level since
1992, thanks to the bonus.
France has introduced a similar
incentive, and the U.S. Congress is

developing its own version of the
plan, dubbed "cash for clunkers."
Proponents say the plan gives
consumers a chance to swap their
old autos for newer and often more
fuel-efficient ones while stimulat-
ing the struggling international
auto industry.
Critics say the plan merely delays
the pain while draining govern-
ment coffers.
There were conflicting reports
in the U.K. media about the govern-
ment's commitment to the car bonus
plan.
WASHINGTON
Obama girls name
new puppy 'Bo'
The first family has settled on
a first pet - a 6-month-old Portu-
guese water dog that the Obama
girls are naming Bo.
Theselectionwas one ofthe White
House's most tightly kept secrets.
President Barack Obama's
daughters, 10-year-old Malia and
7-year-old Sasha, picked a black
and white pup, a White House
official speaking on the condition
of anonymity told The Associated
Press Saturday night.
The dog is a gift from Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy, D-Mass., who owns sev-
eral Portuguese water dogs himself.
"We couldn't be happier to
see the joy that Bo is bringing to
Malia and Sasha," Kennedy said
in a statement. "We love our Por-
tuguese water dogs and know that
the girls - and their parents - will
love theirs, too."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Navy rescues hostage,
shoots three pirates

Report issued
on UM Survival
Flight crash

Decisive action
ends five-day rogue
confrontation
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Navy
snipers on the fantail of a destroyer
cut down three Somali pirates in a
lifeboat and rescued an American
sea captain in a surprise nighttime
assault in choppy seas yesterday,
endinga five-daystandoffbetween
a team of rogue gunmen and the
world's most powerful military.
It was a stunning ending to an
Indian Ocean odyssey that began
when 53-year-old freighter Capt.
Richard Phillips was taken hos-
tage Wednesday by pirates who
tried to hijack the U.S.-flagged
Maersk Alabama. The Vermont
native was held on a tiny lifeboat
that began drifting precariously
toward Somalia's anarchic, gun-
plagued shores.
The operation, personally
approved by President Barack
Obama, quashed fears the saga
could drag on for months and
marked a victory for the U.S.,
which for days seemed powerless
to resolve the crisis despite mass-
ing helicopter-equipped warships
at the scene.
One of the pirates pointed an
AK-47 at the back of Phillips, who
was tied up and in "imminent
danger" of being killed when the
commander of the nearby USS
Bainbridge made the split-second
decision to order his men to shoot,
Vice Adm. Bill Gortney said. The
lifeboat was being towed by the
Bainbridge at the time, he said.
A fourth pirate was in discus-
sions with naval authorities about

Phillips' fate when the rescue took
place. He is in U.S. custody and
could face could face life in a U.S.
prison.
The rescue was a dramatic blow
to the pirates who have preyed on
international shipping and hold
more than a dozen ships with about
230 foreign sailors. But it is unlike-
ly to do much to quell the region's
growing pirate threat, which has
transformed one of the world's
busiest shipping lanes into one of
its most dangerous. It also risked
provoking retaliatory attacks.
"This could escalate violence in
this part of the world, no question
about it," said Gortney, the com-
mander of U.S. Naval Forces Cen-
tral Command.
Abdullahi Lami, one of the
pirates holding the Greek ship
anchored in the Somali town of
Gaan, said: "Every country will
be treated the way it treats us. In
the future, America will be the one
mourning and crying," he told The
Associated Press. "We will retali-
ate (for) the killings of our men."
Jamac Habeb, a 30-year-old
self-proclaimed pirate, told the AP
from one of Somalia's piracy hubs,
Eyl, that: "From now on, if we cap-
ture foreignships and their respec-
tive countries try to attack us, we
will kill them (the hostages)."
"Now they became our number
one enemy," Habeb said of U.S.
forces.
Phillips was not hurt in several
minutes of gunfire and the U.S.
Navy's 5th Fleet said he was rest-
ing comfortably on a U.S. warship
after receiving a medical exam.
"I'm just the byline. The real
heroes are the Navy, the Seals,
those who have brought me

home," Phillips said by phone to
Maersk Line Limited President
and CEO John Reinhart, the com-
pany head told reporters. A photo
released by the Navy showed Phil-
lips unharmed and shaking hands
with the commanding officer of
the USS Bainbridge.
Obama said Phillips had cour-
age that was "a model for all Amer-
icans" and he was pleased about
the rescue, adding that the United
States needs help from other coun-
tries to dealwiththe threatof pira-
cy and to hold pirates accountable.
Phillips' 17,000-ton ship, which
docked with the 19 members of
his crew Saturday in Mombasa,
Kenya, erupted into wild cheers.
Some waved an American flag and
one fired a brightred flare skyward
in celebration.
"We made it!" said crewman
ATM Reza, pumping his fist in the
air.
The ship had been carry-
ing food aid bound for Rwanda,
Somalia and Uganda when the
ordeal began hundreds of miles off
Somalia's eastern coast Wednes-
day. Crew members said they saw
pirates scrambling into the ship
with ropes and hooks from a small
boat bobbing on the surface of the
Indian Ocean far below.
As the pirates shot in the air,
Phillips told his crew to lock
themselves in a cabin and sur-
rendered himself to safeguard his
men, crew members said.
Phillips was then taken hostage
in an enclosed lifeboat that was
soon shadowed by three U.S. war-
ships and a helicopter ina standoff
that grew by the day. The pirates
were believed armed with pistols
and AK-47 assault rifles.

Crew member may
have accidentally hit
autopilot in 2007
medical plane crash
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) - A
crew member may have acciden-
tally put a medical plane into auto-
pilot shortly before a crash in Lake
Michigan that killed both pilots
and a four-member organ trans-
plant team, a federal safety agency's
report says.
The University of Michigan Sur-
vival Flight plane crashed just after
takeoff from Milwaukee's General
Mitchell International Airport on
June 4, 2007.
One of the National Transporta-
tion Safety Board teams investigat-
ing the crash issued a report on its
simulation of the plane's final min-
utes.
The report found the results of
the simulation "are consistent with
the co-pilot inadvertently hittingthe
autopilot button" instead of another
motion control device, the Detroit
Free Press said Sunday.
The co-pilot apparently intended
to activate the "yaw damper on the
airplane center console," accord-
ing to the report by one of six NTSB
teams looking into the crash. A yaw
damper helps reduce side-to-side
oscillations of an aircraft.
If it were turned on, the autopilot
would have resisted the efforts of
the pilots of the Cessna CitationIIto
maneuver the plane.

The problem may have begun
when First Officer Dennis Hoyes
told Capt. Bill Serra he had rou-
tinely activated the aircraft's yaw
damper.
Eleven seconds later, Serra was
recorded as saying, "Why amI fight-
ingthe controls here? Damn it."
"It's choppy. It's going to fight
you,"saidCapt. SteveJones,anexpe-
rienced pilot and head of operations
at Western Michigan University's
College of Aviation. He reviewed the
NTSB reports at the newspaper's
request.
The two buttons are next to each
other on the center console, and
some aircraft makers have rede-
signed cockpit controls to avoid
such mistakes. The changes include
giving the controls varying shapes
to make them less likely to be con-
fused, Jones said.
The report is from the NTSB's
Recorded Radar and Airplane Per-
formance StudyGroup. NTSB teams
also are looking into the operations
of the plane's owner, weather, the
plane's airworthiness, maintenance
records and cockpit voice record-
ings.
The five-member board will
receive the report and others later
this year. Its members then issue a
conclusion on the probable cause of
the crash.
Killed along with Jones and
Serra were cardiac surgeon Dr.
Martinus Spoor, pediatric cardio-
thoracic surgery trainee Dr. David
Ashburn, and transplant donation
specialists Richard Chenault II
and Richard LaPensee.


MSA
From Page 1A
"Student sponsors are backing
out at this time, but (MSA is) still
providing," said Neil Thaneder,
president of Detroit Partnership.
Jordan Salin, former chair of
MSA's Budget Priorities Commit-
tee, said the assembly received
very few complaints from student
organizations that did not receive
their desired amounts of money in
his tenure.
But he added that the changes
to the application have produced
positive results.
"We gave out more money than
in recent years," Salin said. "There
was a noticeable improvement in
the quality of applications attrib-
uted to the application changes."
According to MSA treasurer
Vishal Bajaj, the Budget Priorities
Committee is typically allocated
between $125,000 and $130,000
each semester and the Community
Service Committee is typically allo-
cated about $45,000 each semester
to provide to student groups.
Bajaj said this is considerably
higher than the 40 percent of
MSA's overall funds required to go
to the Budget Priorities Commit-
tee and 20 percent required to go
to the Community Service Com-
mittee by MSA's constitution and
compiled code.
Despite the detailed process for
fund allocation, there are student
groups on campus who feel they
are not given a fair shot bythe MSA
budget committees.
Andrew Dalack, co-chair of
Students Allied for Freedom and
Equality, a pro-Palestinian orga-
nization, said the new funding
process lacks transparency, which
raises many issues for him.
"It is unclear why sometimes we

receive more or less money for cer-
tain events," he said.
Dalack said he thinks the fund-
ing allotment discrepancy may
have something to do with politics.
"The political opinions of the
members of BPC and CSC may
affect our ability to get funding," he
said, "especially if individual mem-
bers of the various funding bod-
ies fundamentally disagree with
SAFE's mission and principles."
Averill said any students whose
neutrality might be compromised
- for example, if they are members
of certain groups - don't provide
input on that group's funding. She
said the opinions of individual
members are not a factor in decid-
ing funding allocation.
"We all understand there are a
million organizations on campus
with different ideas and ideolo-
gies and everything," Averill said.
"Nothing gets factored in as to
whether you agree with them or
not. Obviously it's veryimportant to
the campus to have differing view-
points, so that's not a factor at all."
Averill said some of the basic
standards to decide whether or not
a group or event will be provided
funding are the impact it would
have on the student body - she
said an educational event would be
likely to earn more funding than a
social one - and the scope of the
group.
"If it's (a student organization)
that includes a very large portion
of the student body, either in the
event or the group itself, that's one
of the things to kind of determine
how much we're going to contrib-
ute to it," Averill said.
Bajaj, who used to be the trea-
surer for the Indian American Stu-
dentAssociation, said he had agood
experience earning MSA funding,
but that he does think there are
problems with the system.

"I think the problem lies within
the fact that to get that money, it
was having to beat the system," he
said. "You have to realize there are
certain things they're never going
to fund and there are certain things
they're always going to fund."
Bajaj said he thinks the problem
lies mostly with new and up-and-
coming student organizations that
don't know how to get around the
process. He said MSA should make
the process more transparent so
student organizations know what
it consistently funds and doesn't
fund.
"I think that's the problem, stu-
dent organizations shouldn't have
to feel they have to trick MSA," he
said. "It should be easier and more
transparent."
MSA also considers financial
need of each group when deter-
mining fund allocation. The com-
mittees take into consideration
whether or not the funds from an
event go to charity and if organiza-
tions need MSA backing to oper-
ate.
"Basically we want to give them
the money to allow them to oper-
ate, but if they have enough money
to operate themselves, then they
don't have financial need," Averill
said.
Conner Sandefur, president of
the Native American Student Asso-
ciation, said his group was upset
after it was denied funding for
one of its events earlier in the year.
Sandefur said his group was told
the funding was denied because -
it already had enough money in
its account. That money, how-
ever, was earmarked for its
powwow fundraiser, Sandefur
said, and was not meant for the
event.
"We still had the event but
our account was depleted
because we had thought we had

a strong proposal and were count-
ing on the funding," Sandefur said.
"This left us at a disadvantage for
our powwow."
Later in the year, when NASA
requested funds from MSA for its
powwow because its savings had
been spent, the group was denied
again, Sandefur said. The assembly
told the organization the reason it
was denied was because the money
it would make on admissions tick-
ets at the powwow would cover the
costs of the event.
"I'm not sure how the funding
committee made the determina-
tion that they understood our bud-
get more clearly than we do," he
said.
Averill said if any organizations
are not content with the funding
they are granted, they are given the
opportunity to appeal.
"People come to appeals a lot,
and a lot of the time people who
do come to appeals end up getting
more money because it's usually
very legitimate reasons why they're
there," she said.
Despite the many complaints of
a lack of transparency, inefficient
processes and budget commit-
tee members who make decisions
subjectively, there are many cam-
pus groups that say MSA has been
extremely helpful when it comes to
funding.
Reid Benjamin, treasurer of
Relay For Life, said the funding
process is very effective in a multi-
tude of ways.

He stated that the necessary
training about the process and
available meetings with MSA rep-
resentatives helps to make things
run efficiently.
"I have a hard time saying any-
thing negative about the process
because it's gone so smoothly,"
Benjamin said.
Julia Hawley, treasurer of the
Solar Car Team, said MSA has
been very beneficial to their cause
as well.
"Usually they give us a pretty
good portion and overall we've
had a positive experience," Haw-
ley said. "We always ask for more
money than we think we can get
but MSA is always generous."
Bajaj said he plans to reform
the funding process while he is
MSA treasurer, possibly increas-
ing the amount of money allocated
to the Budget Priorities Commit-
tee among other changes, to make
funding easier for student groups.
One of the issues with student
funding is that it is a system of
reimbursements, Bajaj said. There-
fore, if student groups do not have
enough money up front, they still
cannot host events, even though
MSA will ultimately provide them
funding.
Bajaj said he also plans to put the
entire application online and hold
more individual funding work-
shops, possibly even approach-
ing student organizations rather
than having student organizations
approach MSA.


SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandally.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


I


4A - Monday, April 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

L74c lWtc4t*pan4,3at'lU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR j
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Gettin the wrong idea
Universities must not dismiss students for personal reasons
ne of the reasons many students choose to attend graduate
schools is their open-mindedness. There's an understand-
ing that these programs will accept many different points
of view and facilitate discussion between them. It's these positive
qualities of academia that make recent events at Eastern Michigan
University so troubling. An EMU student was recently dismissed
from her graduate program because her personal beliefs clashed
with the administration. And while the circumstances that led to
her dismissal were complicated, they amount to a serious disregard
for academic freedom. In cases like these, universities should be
wary that access to education must not become limited to only those
students who subscribe to a certain ideological viewpoint.

Julea Ward, a graduate student in EMU's
Counseling program, was dismissed in
March after she asked for a client in her
practicum course to be reassigned to
another counselor. Ward claimed that she
did not feel comfortable advising the cli-
ent because his sexual orientation went
against her religious beliefs. After the cli-
ent was reassigned, Ward's advisor, Prof.
Yvonne Calloway, claimed that she was
violating the American Counseling Asso-
ciation Code of Ethics, which states that
no client should be discriminated against
based on, among other things, sexual ori-
entation.
Ward was then brought under review.
A panel of professors questioned her on
a number of other issues, including abor-
tion and extra-marital sex, and she said
she would still feel comfortable being able
to discuss those issues with clients. The
panel ruled that Ward was in violation of
the code and the university dismissed her.
On April 2, the Alliance Defense Fund Cen-
ter for Academic Freedom filed suit against
EMU on behalf of Ward, claiming that the
university had violated Ward's First and
Fourteenth Amendment rights.
It's tough not to see Ward as the victim
in this situation. Though her views on
homosexuality are misinformed, backward
and wrong, they are her personal views.
Attempting to counsel the client in spite of
these views would have been a disservice
to the client, and referring him was the
best course of action. This was in fact the
course of action recommended by Callo-
way, who then turned around and charged

Ward with a violation of the code.
It would appear that Calloway and the
review panel dismissed Ward for no other
reason than that they found her views dis-
tasteful and wanted to send a message.
That's a problem - because graduate pro-
grams should be places where different
views are accepted, not purged. Though a
counseling program may not be the best
forum for ideological debate, this program
should certainly not exclude people based
on personal beliefs. After all, the best way
to change Ward's backward personal opin-
ion on homosexuality is for her to come
into contact with opposing viewpoints of
other students at EMU.
Ironically, it's EMU's treatment of Ward
- rather than Ward's treatment of her cli-
ent - that amounts to discrimination. If
faculty and administrators are specifically
targeting students for dismissal because of
their personal beliefs, the educational sys-
tem has squandered one of its most impor-
tant features: tolerance for people who
think differently.
Ward's treatment is an example of the
dangers of an academic climate that fails
to tolerate different ideologies. In situa-
tions like this, everyone loses. Universities
lose the ability to benefit from different
viewpoints - no matter how radical - and
education becomes something that is lim-
ited to a distinct type of person who holds
certain beliefs.
For the sake of both academic freedom
and ideological diversity in the classroom,
cases like Ward's can't become the norm at
universities.

Your family is saving a chocolate Easter egg
for you. Unless your son eats it first'
- Andrea Phillips, wife of Richard Phillips, the captain being held hostage by Somali pirates, in a note
given to her husband upon his rescue, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I T PATg' E-MAIL CHRISAT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
apped dbo TersSpeakin of Transformers,
iratesman? They're paec now too. what happened to
ow.What happened From speakeasies and whisky Michael Bay
to maps and bur ed treasure? 0 tocamera-phone qalty 6Nothing He aysuac
O Prates used to be so coo Transformers DYDs. Sad.
ra a e 0
Taking Detroit for a ride
W e're coming up on the 35th The answer is yes, of course. And to provide a much-needed distraction
anniversary of a Supreme for an explanation, it's helpful to look for out-of-work Michiganders - were
Court case involving pub- at how we got here. held at the Palace of Auburn Hills and
lie schools in Mich- The phenomena that racially polar- not within the city of Detroit itself.
igan that you may ized the Detroit area are the same In what other city would that be a
have never heard ones that wreaked havoc on race rela- problem? People would just get on the
about - but its con- tions across the country for much of subway and go. But that's not possible
sequences are all the mid to late 20th century - ten- in Detroit. The people Leno wanted
around us. In the sions accompanying the civil rights to help - the recently unemployed,
1974 case of Millik- movement, redlining, white flight who may have lost their cars - had no
en v. Bradley, a 5-4 and growing unemployment. These way to get to Auburn Hills. It's simply
decision deemed things segregated neighborhoods and mind-boggling.
cross-district bus- schools in many major metro areas,
ing an unconsti- IMRAN but all of them hit Detroit especially
tutional means SYED hard.
of integrating Other similarly situated cities were H ow w e missed
schools, able to somewhat mitigate the effects
The policy involves sending kids of segregation in part because they an opportunity to
to schools that may be farther away had what the Motor City did not: a
in order to better integrate them. viable, comprehensive public transit integrate the city.
While one may argue that there's system. While those regions may haveciy
nothing inherently unconstitutional been segregated in terms of housing,
about cross-district busing (states, at least disparate groups of people
with their power over schools, argu- still had the ability to travel freely Since we can't use public transit as
ably have the mandate to effect such within the region. a Band-aid here in the Detroit area, a
a remedy), it's actually quite stunning Most major metro areas devel- more grassroots, holistic solution -
that four justices supported the plan oped light-rail transit 50 years ago, as challenging as that will be - may
- considering how intuitively offen- but debate over that issue never gave be the only answer. I don't know what
sive cross-district busingseems. way to a solution in Detroit. General exactly that solution is, but perhaps
The Milliken decision was an Motors's insistence that (GM-built) we should once again turn to schools.
opportunity lost. Had cross-district buses, not trains,were the solution for Schools in the Detroit area were
busing been upheld, the actual pur- Detroit undoubtedly swayed public desegregated, of course, but never
pose of remedial busing would have officials, and by the time they realized became truly integrated. Had that
been met. By the time I attended pub- that city buses were no substitute for happened, the regional disparity in
lic schools in Detroit and its suburbs trains, it was too late to build a cheap, terms or race and prosperity would
25 years later, the problem would have comprehensive subway system. never have taken root. Knowing their
been solved, all districts would have This unfortunate scenario has had children could go to school anywhere
reached what courts call "unitary repercussions that University stu- in the region regardless of where they
status" and such remedies would no dents know all about. For all the big lived would have prevented parents
longer have been needed. But instead, games, nice restaurants, music clubs from actively moving to or from cer-
cross-district busing was defeated in and museums in Detroit, there's just tain areas. Tax bases would not have
the Supreme Court and the problem no feasible way to get to these things shifted so drastically and neighbor-
of de facto segregation in major met- without a car. hoods would be more integrated.
ropolitan areas - in schools and else- Besides the sheer inconvenience, In short, the solution the Supreme
where - never went away. the systemic immobilization that Court rejected in Milliken would
The Detroit area is one of the most results from the lack of a viable pub- have made the problem go away long
segregated regions in the country. lic transit system serves to reinforce ago. But instead, we've had 35 bonus
You might wonder exactly what that boundaries in our unfortunately seg- years of segregation.
means in this day and age. Could regated region. Don't believe me?
segregated regions still be so much For proof, look at the recent flap over - Imran Syed was the Daily's
of a problem with, you know, Barack comedian Jay Leno's free comedy editorial page editor in 2007. He can
Obama being president and all? shows. The shows - which Leno did be reached at galad@umich.edu.
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers to be columnists

during the spring and summer semesters. Columnists write 750 words
on a topic of their choice every other week.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
GREGORY WAGNERx jV WP -
The future of the space race

0

6
6

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Satyajeet
Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
AmeriCorps is a worthwhile Students today are often thrust into college
experience for students immediately after they graduate from high
school. Armed only with adolescent experience
and the advice of our parents, we're expected
TO THE DAILY: to pick the classes and profession that will give
A number of recent pieces in the Daily have us the happiest life possible. Summer intern-
encouraged me to write in support of the ships and extracurriculars may help to guide
AmeriCorps program (AmeriCorps gets boost us, but without a knowledge of what real work
in federal funding, 04/06/2009). I spent almost and real life entail, it seems foolish to assume
a year in full-time service with the program we're prepared for "real life." AmeriCorps
between my junior and senior years. I can say gave me the chance to sample the post-gradu-
that it was, without a doubt, the best decision I ation world before being fully committed to it.
have made in my undergraduate career. And to be blunt, I got a pretty unique chance
While hitchhiking through Yosemite to figure out what was awesome and what was
National Park in the summer of 2007, I got terrible.
picked up by a girl about my age. She asked me On top of making great friends and doing
what I was doing in the park. I was rock climb- amazing things, I was paid, provided with
ing, dirt-bagging and generally avoiding the health insurance and received a $5,000 bonus
real world. When asked what she was doing, I can spend on anything relating to my educa-
she replied, "Volunteering for AmeriCorps." tion. I urge anyone interested in doing com-
Those three magical words would shape my munity service, taking a break from school
life forever. or getting a job after graduation (or all three)
I applied for the position she had had and to visit the AmeriCorps website and read tes-
was presented with the wonderful opportu- timonials of other program graduates. And if
nity to spend 2008 in the Sierra Nevada, work- you don't want to wait until after graduation,
ing on environmental restoration, monitoring don't. Takea year off - serve your country and
air and water quality and leading volunteers. serve yourself.
In short, I had an experience so extensive and
valuable I'm sure I still haven't realized its full Becca Sonday
worth. Engineering senior

6

On Apr. 12, 1961, Yuri Gagarin chiseled his name into
history forever by becoming the first human to see the
Earth from space. Drifting above the planet's surface in
the Soviets' Vostok 1 capsule, he reflected to ground con-
trol: "The Earth is blue. How wonderful. It is amazing."
Since Yuri's journey, this rare view has been passionately
sought and shared by some privileged men and women.
It is Yuri's milestone in human history and the achieve-
ments of humanity in space since that time that are the
subjects of Yuri's Night, a holiday and worldwide celebra-
tion of space.
What exactly is space? Space is everything. The whole
universe falls within our conception of it. Our concrete
minds will say that space is galaxies, stars, planets, gas
and dust, but it's also a concept - a large and empty
void that is marked by silent grandeur. We are stirred
by images brought from the corners of the universe of
strangely twisting, burning galaxies and of majestic plan-
ets, striped and ringed. Even if we only glance skyward
on a clear night, we can sense the presence of the stars.
Space holds mysteries that challenge us to explore. Some
say that space is a blank slate where the past is of no con-
sequence, a place where humanity can learn to live and
start anew.
Space is important to us. It supports integral compo-
nents of our civilization, even if we are not aware of it:
entertainment, communication, weather prediction and
GPS. It allows for telescopes and observatories, the explo-
ration of the solar system and experiments in zero-grav-
ity, not to mention the forthcoming industries of space
tourism and habitation.
But beyond the mere practical benefits, space can
inspire us. The emotions we attach to space can be tapped
to unite individuals and motivate diverse groups of peo-
ple. An easy example of this power was the Apollo mis-

sions. Hundreds of thousands of engineers, scientists and
laborers devoted themselves to the singular purpose of
delivering a human ambassador to the moon. This pursuit
cost billions of dollars, led to advances in electronics and
materials and persuaded a generation of children to pur-
sue careers in science and mathematics.
Students for the Exploration and Development of Space
is holding a Yuri's Night event on Tuesday, Apr. 14 from 7
to 10 p.m. in the Rackham Amphitheatre. With this event,
we hope to excite passion and motivate a new generation
to pursue goals in the science of space. We believe this
pursuit can lead, as it has before, to innovation and tech-
nological breakthroughs that can benefit all. We will focus
on the commercial side of space exploration and develop-
ment, where we believe the true future of space lies.
Governments, ofcourse, should continue (and increase)
their funding of science missions, interplanetary probes
and great space observatories. But commercial space,
which some say is in the midst of a new space race, shows
the greatest promise to bring space to the doorstep of the
ordinary citizen. In such a quest, innovation and technol-
ogy will advance, too. Tomorrow's event will include a
screening of the documentary film Orphans of Apollo, a
dinner and reception where student groups around cam-
pus will display their purpose and activities - some will
bring actual hardware from current projects - and atalk
on the Google Lunar X PRIZE. So come to the Rackham
Amphitheatre to hear an incredible story about private
human spaceflight and learn more about how you can aid
in the effort to bring people to space - or perhaps travel to
space yourself
Come in order to celebrate the legacy of Yuri Gagarin
and the unknown power of space.
Gregory Wagner is an Engineering senior.

6

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoilyt@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 13, 2009 - 5A

From X-Men' to
instrospection

"Can you imagine what that ass would look like in focus?"

Good cop, mall cop

Seth Rogen makes a
disturbed character oddly
hilarious and endearing
By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
"Observe and Report" challenges its audi-
ence to laugh at a mall cop
with bipolar disorder who ***
brandishes guns, beats the
tar out of teens and slaps a Observe
Polaroid of a shriveled penis
on his forehead in defeat. and Report
Understand and accept these At Showcase
outrageous truths, and the and Qualityl6
film becomes palatable. Find Warner Bros.
them funny, and "Observe
and Report" is actually quite
brilliant.
From Jody Hill, the up-and-coming force
behind "The Foot Fist Way" and HBO's
underdog series "Eastbound & Down," comes
"Observe and Report," an original movie about
a security guard and his ridiculous road to
redemption.
Meet Ronnie Barnhardt (the red-hot Seth

Rogen, "Pineapple Express"), Forest Ridge
Mall's"head of security." Ronnie's got problems
- a lot of problems. The mall's being terror-
ized by a returning flasher and a night robber.
Ronnie's freaking out because local police are
investigating the matters he thinks he should
be dealing with. And meanwhile, Ronnie's
mom is an alcoholic, his dad's out of the picture,
the love of his life won't reciprocate and Ronnie
himself harbors a dream to become an actual
cop. Ronnie must cope with all of his stresses
and move on with his life. He must win.
Sounds like prototypical "cuh-razy" comedy
stuff. But Ronnie's movie uses itsjokes to sting.
It's not easy at first. It's actually rather unnerv-
ing. But "Observe and Report" is quite good at
what it does: inciting nervous laughter.
Heroin in the mall bathroom? Gulp. Racial
slurs aimed at the mall's non-white employ-
ees? Umm. People getting their arms suddenly,
viciously broken as comedy? Only Zack Snyder
("Watchmen") can do that, and even then only
unintentionally. A great primer for this film's
humor is the psychological profiling Ronnie
undergoes during his police entrance exams.
He's asked why he wants to join the force
by a police analyst. Ronnie, in so many words,
describes how he dreams mostnights of a giant,
black, cancerous, pus-filled cloud enshrouding

the land. And when that cloud arrives, he must
do God's work and lay to waste the people who
brought the cloud to him. But Ronnie won't
accept thanks; he thinks of himself as just a
"man with a shotgun."
Whoa. Ha ha?
Now, if that reeks of Travis Bickle or Emily
Dickinson, there's a reason. Besides being a bit-
ter comedy, "Observe and Report" is the latest,
greatest work of the "Cinema of Isolation," or
rather films about the fascinatingly disabled.
It's OK to like Ronnie. He's not an inten-
tionally warped fella. He's bipolar and often
acceptable to laugh at. Rogen wants that. But
he is an angry loner, and Rogen's surprising-
ly strong performance makes "Observe and
Report" a deep work. "Taxi Driver," "My Left
Foot" and even "The Miracle Worker" would
get along nicely with it.
On a final note, there's been some rumblings
about "Observe and Report" being "Paul Blart:
Mall Cop 2." It's being brushed off as just anoth-
er kooky mall caper. Take it from someone who
actually saw "Blart:" Paul Blart can suck it.
Ronnie Barnhadt's our broken man. See him.
Watch his movie. Laugh, linger and think about
the forgotten folks of the everyday. Mall cops
can be hilariously depressing. Just think about
that before seeing "Observe and Report."

recently read Adrian Tom-
ine's graphic novel "Short-
comings," a present given to
me because I have been reading
a great deal of
graphic novels
lately. Graphic
novels have
intrigued me
as an art form
since I was 13,
when I picked -
up the first book WIUMEY
installment of POW
"The New X-Men"
by Grant Morrison.
I suppose I've always loved
graphic novels and comics; the
former present the narratives in
one complete dose, and the latter
present it with the suspense of
waiting for month-by-month seri-
al installments. I've had my share
of both - of excitedly buying a
comic's issues 1-10 pre-packaged
in a glossy, soft-cover book, and
of waiting for my "X-Men" comic
to come in the mail every month,
only to be disappointed in the fact
that at its close I'd be waiting,
sometimes mid-caption balloon,
for what came next month.
Looking back, it was like
an addictive, sci-fi soap opera.
Drama! Intrigue! Murder! I still
held on, even while being sorely
aware of the plot devices, the
somewhat predictable twists and
turns and the cliffhangers that
were immediately resolved within
the first page of the next install-
ment. But there was still a child-
ish part of me that endured all of
the month-by-month suspense
because I sympathized with this
world. I wanted to have super-
powers when I was 14 (and even
now, at 21), and I'm sure many
others can sympathize with that
feeling too.
I dropped my subscription of
"The Ultimate X-Men" when I
was 16, aware of how the series
wasn't keeping my interest like
it had a year or two before. From
there, left without a monthly
comic to read, I moved from the
comic world into the world of
graphic novels.
It was there that I became
increasingly aware that the word
"graphic novel" enveloped much
more than the expected fantasy,
sci-fi or superhero genres. The
graphic novel, which once trans-
ported me from one world to
another (a world where men shot
lasers out of their eyes), could now
transport me inward. The graphic
novel could also allow for a great
deal of introspection into the
mundane, delving into the details
of a world within our own instead
of transporting me out of it.
A few years ago I read the
"Optic Nerve" comics by Adrian
Tomine, an Asian-American
graphic novelist whose work has
appeared almost everywhere,
including the cover of the New
Yorker, the New York Times
Magazine and on the cover of Yo
La Tengo's live-in-studio covers
album "Yo La Tengo is Murdering
the Classics." Tomine is known
for his crisp, subtle illustrations
that visually map out and emulate
the multifaceted anatomy of a
scene, a gesture or an emotion.
A single, two-by-one inch panel
in "Shortcomings," for example,
contains a speech bubble reading
"Okay" and an Asian man and a
Caucasian woman looking at one
another intensely, eyes somewhat
closed, lips pursed; this panel

embodies the complex height
of an infinite amount of sexual

tension related to infidelity, race
relations and sexuality that a
thousand words on the matter
could never come close to fully
expressing. The dreamy, familiar
look from one person to another
covers enough complex and emo-
tionally grounded material, it
seems, to occupy an entire Marvel
Universe.
Tomine's graphic novels made
me want to return to fiction writ-
ing. His ability to somehow find
the oddest, sparkling moment in
the mundane has always intrigued
me. I've always admired his -
and other graphic novel writers'
- odd and paradoxical ability to
be unsentimental while telling
a story with such sentimental
undertones, hitting on points such
as nostalgia, love or jealousy with-
out getting "gushy," "cheesy" or,
scarily enough, "emo." It's the art-
ist's ability to stretch out, expand
and renew the boy-meets-girl or
the I-shouldn't-have-cheated-on-
you tale that make stories worth-
while, because, essentially, we
have read their basic, bare-bones
plots before at one time or anoth-
er, but perhaps not in the particu-
lar way Tomine presents.
As for those interested in
graphic novels that examine life
in its confusion and complexity, I
Going beyond
the Marvel
Universe to find
a different view.
would suggest Allison Bechdel's
graphic memoir "Fun Home,"
which is primarily a personal
examination of Bechdel's neglect-
ful, homosexual father who com-
mitted suicide when she was 20.
Also worthwhile is Chris Ware's
"Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest
Kid on Earth," which, contrary
to its title's suggestion of child-
like fantasy, follows the adult
Corrigan through his profoundly
tragic, lonely life and his oddly
liberating dreams of peach trees
and robots.
Finally, there's David B's "Epi-
leptic" - a graphic memoir that
covers the childhood of David B.
and his disabled epileptic brother
Jean-Christophe. It tells the story
of Jean letting his life fall into the
tragic hideaway of his illness, and,
consequently, David letting his
life fall into the tragic hideaway
of his art.
For me, the introspective qual-
ity of Tomine's graphic novels
created a new looking-glass
through which to view the world.
Simply put, graphic novels have
done what literature, film and
many other art pieces have done:
They have presented the real and
the mundane, and then renewed
it for us, making it exciting and
different. I'm glad to see that this
medium has been making a great
deal of headway, becoming a legit-
imate art form in the eyes of the
public, and I'm looking forward
to seeing what other areas artists
will examine it in the future, from
the macrocosm of the Marvel
Universe to the microcosm of the
moment.
Pow needs someone to illustrate

her graphic memoirs. E-mail her at
poww@umich.edu if you can draw.

A Mirab-culous album

By RHIANNON HALLER
Daily Arts Writer
"Soft and understated" is a
phrase with
negative conno-
tations that are
often hard to
shake. If a poli- Miiah
tician's speeches (a)spera
were labeled as K
such, that per-
son's campaign
would surely falter. If a boxer's
punch was "soft and understated,"
that fighter wouldn't be landing a
whole lot of championship belts
anytime soon. In music, however,
"soft and understated" can be a
very good thing.
(a)spera, singer-songwriter
Mirah's latest, is a shining exam-
ple of such a case with its patient
instrumentation and soothing
vocals. Mixing a menagerie of
musical styles from countless eras
and parts of the world, Mirah's
new release keeps things interest-
ing while holding onto a thread of
 cool collectedness.
The album is rarely fast-paced,
maintaining a constant string

of calm, subtle songs. On "Edu-
cation," gently plucked guitar
strings and dawdling drums
provide a picturesque pastoral
background to Mirah's whispery
singing. She "oohs" and "aahs"
and "la-las" and "da-das" as vio-
lins enter the scene, filling out
the sound with eerie, drawn out
chords.
Subtlety in motion pops up
again on "Shells." Like a lul-
laby, the track features a harp
and Mirah's sugary-sweet voice
in a hushed, cherubic tone. Each
song flows into the next without
difficulty, tightening the already
cohesive sound of the relaxing
atmosphere that pervades the
record.
On the rare occasion when
(a)spera speeds up into the land of
the moderately paced, the accel-
erated tempos don't sound out of
place. On "Forest," which features
distorted guitar riffs and ska-like
horns, Mirah's voice remains
waif-like and comforting, acting
as a uniting factor that drives the
song's deviation from the rest of
the album.
Mirah not only manages to

mainta
of the
instrut
also cri
from a
of the F
of her
singly
musica
"
cu
I
soU
with a
drum
ow a m
erronec
dispro:
maraca
tinctly
snare
the Me
by the;
voice

in the intertwining nature keeping a whisper-like intonation
album despite changes in while taking on a Middle Eastern
mentation and pace, but harmony. Her vocalized Arabian
eates variation with sounds rhythms become even more pro-
round the world. "Country nounced at the song's culmination
Future" is the best example as she begins to chant as though
sampling of global flavors, she were leading a call to prayer
encompassing several from a minaret.
1 styles. The song begins - The title of "Country of the
Future" could not fit the song's
global amalgamation any better.
"Soft" and The track's m6lange of sounds
echoes growing globalization and
Lnderstated" multiculturalism taking place
around the world. It is a vision of
have never a nation where drastically diverse
colors and creeds stand together
.nded so cool. in tightly knit solidarity.
(a)spera as a whole is a strik-
ing example of aesthetic unity.
The album concocts a mellow
few short rolls on a steel tranquility with lilting vocals
that mistakenly foreshad- and relaxing instrumentation,
ellow reggae number. The maintaining a perfect balance of
ous prediction is quickly similitude and fluctuation. It's a
ven as Spanish guitars and mature and graceful effort, quite
as kick in, spawning a dis- happy to occupy the backseat
Latin sound. Militaristic with its soft, understated per-
drums enter, contrasting sonality. But (a)spera's dexterous
diterranean calm provided fusion of solidarity and alteration
Spanish elements. Mirah's begs a more prominent place rid-
straddles globalization, ing shotgun.

Rogen, Hill and Faris discuss 'Observe and Report'

By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
Anyone who sees the ads for "Observe
and Report," with a silly-looking Seth Rogen
in a mall cop uniform, might mistake the
film for either another laid-back "Pineapple
Express"-type comedy or, worse, a raunchy
"Paul Blart" rip-off. But thanks to the efforts
of writer-director Jody Hill ("The Foot Fist
Way," TV's "Eastbown and Down") and the
go-for-broke performances of leads Rogen as
a mall cop hero and Anna Faris ("The House
Bunny") as a trampy cosmetics employee,
"Observe" occupies a deeper, filthier place in
the R-rated comedy echelon.
In three separate phone interviews, Hill,
Rogen and Faris discussed the challenges
and thrills of making such an out-of-the-
box film, which follows a bipolar mall cop
with delusions of grandeur as he attempts

to track down a flasher.
"(It felt) like we'd stolen abunch ofmovie
cameras and film, and somehow they let us
make this movie in this mall," Rogen said,
summing up the experience of being able to
mount such a bizarre production under the
big studio eye of Warner Brothers.
The actor, who admitted to doing almost
no mall-cop research for his part, noted
that making "Observe" felt more like an
independent movie to him than anything
he's ever done.
For Hill, who funded his previous film
"Foot Fist" out of his own pocket, this was
his first experience making a movie on
a budget. He likened landing Rogen and
Faris to "an insurance policy" for getting
the film made.
Rogen is grateful for the touch that indie
directors like Hill bring to mainstream
comedies.

"We're looking for people who are
smarter than us, basically," Rogen said.
Referencing films he co-wrote with
writing partner Evan Goldberg, he added,
Why Seth Rogen
and Anna Faris
are like a good
insurance policy.
"You know, there's a reason we don't direct
the movies ourselves."
"Observe and Report" has many unique
influences for a comedy. Hill talked about

his desire to write a movie that pushes its
main character to the edge of sanity, but
that would also work around the symbol of
a mall - "because I really hate malls," he
added with a laugh.
His influences were '70s films by direc-
tors like Sam Peckinpah and Martin Scors-
ese.
"Those movies deal with a lot of themes
of isolation and loneliness and characters
trying to come up with a code and feeling
out a place in their time," he explained.
Yet "Observe" has unique touches that
make the film all its own, such as a drunken
sex scene between Rogen and Faris that's
played for squirm-inducing laughs.
"I gave my parents a glass of wine and I
showed them that scene and I was like, OK,
brace yourself," laughed Faris, who notes
that both her and Rogen were convinced the
bit would never make it into the final cut.

With all the blue humor going on,
"Observe" is a far cry from the lovable ston-
er fare Rogen's fans are used to seeing him.
Even though this is a new type ofrole for the
comedian, he admits that he doesn't have
any grandiose career plans for himself.
"I've never ended up playing the roles
we've written for myself in the movies any-
ways," Rogen explained. "So that just fur-
ther adds a monkey wrench into our 'grand
plan,' of which we don't have much of in
the first place."
Regardless of Rogen's ambitions, if there
is a grand plan for "Observe," it seems to
be to make the audience laugh out of pure
discomfort as much as possible. With every
boundary of taste the film pushed in a pre-
view screening on Apr. 1, the packed house
howled louder in disbelief. Now that the
film is playing in theaters everywhere, it is
sure to shock, offend and entertain.


6A- Monday, April 13, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 6

parking
025 A
!!!!!!!!PARKING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
We got "YOUR" spot at one of our
"Prime" lots! Call 734-761-8000 for
the locations & rates!
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. irnmed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
e 1

!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD direct with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.antiarborapartiments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spaciousremodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furmished or
unfurmished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATE$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom 909 Church
Great Location!rGreat for 4 people!
Leathser Ftrmitare and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water, and park-
ing included! Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
*3 & 4 bdrt Hoases. A/C, free prkg.
& ldry., close to capus, 734-649-7571.
*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
Fall 09. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. fstm. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 BDRM APT. May - Aug. Packard @)
Greenwood. $990. Pkg, wshr, dryer
incl. 734-717-2935.
S .
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

Houses Available
for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton PI. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
1300 Broadway $2400
Offering a $500.00
gift card to a store of
your choice with every
signed lease of these
available houses!!

100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
1001 S. FOREST
- Great Campus Location!
- Large 2-bedrooms for 2 - 4 people!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.com
1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
- Great Old West Side location!
" Large 1 & 2-bedrooms!
- (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagenent.com
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
1Anartments A vailable]

Lwww.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201

i

RELEASE DATE- Monday, April 13, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 69 Canonized Mlles. 32 Bullfight shout 49 Shoot again
1 Put below, as 70 Phone button 35 Air rifle ammo 50 Frigid epoch
cargo abbr. 37 June 6, 1944 51 Marquee name,
5 Potentially painful 38 "Stop right there! often
precipitation DOWN 39 Sofa sides 53 Gallic girlfriends
9 Treasure map 1 Fixed charge 40 "I've got it now!i 55Thornyflowers
measures 2 Psychological 41 Faith of more 58 Swervesat sea
14Toledo'slake injury than one billion 59Juniors'H.S.
15 Domini 3 Like many old- 42 Craven of horror exam
16 Smells fashioned lamps 46 Tampa neighbor, 60 "Othello" fellow
17 Like NBA centers 4 Wishing place briefly 61 '40s jazz
18 Compumr 5 Israeli portcity 47 Pooh-pooh 62 Here, in Spain
Stravinsky 8 Mohair-bearing
19 Parisian river goat ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Conceited 7 Aware of-
23 Brit. record label 8 Passed-down I W I S H I D S A I DIT H A T
24FormerEgypt- tales N A T I 0 N A L A V E R A G E
Syria alliance: 9 Charlatan C A U T I O N A R Y T AL E S
Abbr. 10 Journalist R C P T AMP ONE R S
25 Beers and ales Rogers St. Johns E T C A U S
28 Enjoy something 11 Hairdo S T A R SA STR tPESa
immensely, mith 12 Conastal bird
up.sywt 0stdegreesfrom P A D S T OW I T T A X I
30 French love NNW O U I R E X L I Z
33 Last: Abbr. 21 Wordsbefore O R E SAL S R O L E
34M s.g sightba d mind 0 U N D E D T H E B A SE S
36 Miss. neighbar 22 Cheetleading AECc T I P
37Scott whosued groups A W O LS BPS A P P TS
for hisfreedom 26 Dog collartarget M A D E A B R E A K F 0 R I T
38 Plan not 27 Benchmark: Abbr. A B E R D E E N T E R R I E R
completely 29 Dot on an ocean
thoughtout map T E S T E D T H E W A T E R S
42 Suffix with hard 31 Manufacturer xwordeditor@aol.com 04/13/09

1346 GEDDES
+ 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
. Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
"(734)668-11011
- www.varsitymanagement.com
1350 GEDDES ACCROSS from
CCRB Large single family house. Too
much to list. 734-475-2577
martbalt@comcast.net
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ]dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemianagenent.com
3Studio & 1
Bor . Units
ower Plaza Condominium
modat ost! boc+ nC-,-
734-663-1530
331 CATHERINE
- 6-bedroomhousefor6- 8people!
" Kerrytown! - need we say more?!?!
- Or separate 3-bdr apts; we'll accom-
modate you!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.com
331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May - May!
- t-bedroom private entrance and porch!
-(734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail, fall 09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappmanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, Idry, prkg, fireplace
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@/aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - I bedroomss
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.comt
418 E. WASHINGTON
" Grad Students Galore!
* Mature, quiet study environment!
*(734)668-100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
515 & 521 Walnutt
" CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
- I & 2 bdrms of all shapes and sizes!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
" Just off West Quad!
" Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
*(734)668-1100
* www.varsitymanagement.com
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail, for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
thUC
ed andOP
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009

734.741.9300
ww.annarborapartments.ngt
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
m. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only I to. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fally furnished uniit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kithen itts dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May 09 to August -09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust 10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
848 TAPPAN
- ON Central Campus near B School!
- Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy 1-bedroom!
"(734)668-I100
. www.varsitymanagementcoms
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
BDRM & EF.APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
904 S. FOREST at Hill, apt. # 2. Avail
May 09 or Sept. '09-'10, 4 bdrms, com-
pletely updated. 734-475-2577
martbalt e7comcast.et
917 PACKARD
- Business & Law School so close!
- Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagenent.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliances. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New frnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathonltravis clsbglobal.net
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrn.apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE MAY LOCATION!
Corner of South Forest and South U.
Rooms-eff. 1/2 bdrms. 734-996-2836.

EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE located
near Geddes and South University. Can
accoommodate six. Contact Michigan
Realty at 734-662-5500 or
www.nichcomrealty.com EHO.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappotnanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
HOUSE OR ROOMS for rent. 2 bath,
furnished, side drive parking, excellent
location, 248-709-9981.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/tmo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdnn.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NORTH CAMPUS
Don't Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet, beautiful location!
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
ROOM FOR RENT in nice, clean
condo. Females ny, nn-smoking.
$350/motth Sept-Sept inct- atli. Free
prkg and Indry. For more info contact
Rachel at rachelvg@umich.edu
f/,5wWVW lymyma .CN1* rsty
Management
734) 668-090
Iurslusus ad Lw Stuesti
arsll es
Grsaeatinsll8
IretPftesl
GroatMperanaals

- -- - - -- -
1 - I
WilsonWhite
I M A G tE ME NT I
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
will waive the application fee and reduce
seturit depsit to se months ent 1
1 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
I www.wisonwhitemanagement.com
- .. ....- - - -
Rooms, studios, and 1-to 8-edaroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campuslocations!
CALL TODAY!
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today tosee your new Home!
Reduced Rates
I Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
726 State Street
909 Church
1021 Vaghn
721 . Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton P. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card toea store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
SIGN THIS MONTH,
& SAVE BIG!
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MLCOM
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. apt. 1114
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C.
Free ]dry. $2650+ utit, avail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from stadios 1o6 drm. hoses in alt lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.

PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots of Amenities
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2

6
6
6
6

0

or soft 1
43 Seashell seller, in
a tongue twister 14
44 Retirementnorg.
45 "Slippery"tree 1
46 Archaeological 20
fragment
48 Like some poetry 2
52 Prefix with sphere
54 Memorable
period
56 "Foucault's
Pendulum' a
authdr Umberto
57 Much campaign 42
rhetoric 45
61 Count with a
keyboard n2
63 Warts and all
64 Med.school
class
65 Group of eight 6 16
66 Stroll in the 6
shallows
67 Head over heels m6
in lane
68 Out of fashion By Fred
(020,9

! 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 18
18 18
21 22
24 25 28 27
29 30 31 32 33
34 35 36 3T
a 39 40 41
43 44
46 47 48 49 50 51
53 54 55 56
0 57 58 58 84
r2 63 64
66 87
68 70
e Jackson III G4/1 9
91'ribune Media Services, Inc.

L Call todaytfora persoual teurl J uL

40

Deadline for lineads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per lineforeachadditional
consecutve issue.
" Frequencyand Bulkhcontracts are available- contact our staff for details
" Students may receivea 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student lD (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads mustobe prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been estabished
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 13, 2009 - 7A

Protestors clash
with Thai troops

Forty-nine people
reported injured in
ongoing protests
BANGKOK (AP) - Thai soldiers
unleashed hundreds of rounds of
automatic weapons fire to clear
rock-throwing anti-government
protesters from a major intersec-
tion in the capital in the pre-dawn
darkness Monday.
Forty-nine people were report-
ed hurt in the first serious clash
between the two sides in ongo-
ing protests that have roiled this
southeast Asian nation and came
a day after the country's ousted
prime minister called for a revo-
lution.
While the government has
declared a state of emergency, pro-
testers controlled many streets in
the capital Bangkok. They had ear-
lier commandeered public buses
and swarmed triumphantly over
military vehicles in defiance.
In the starkest example of the
chaos, a mob of the red-shirted
protesters smashed cars carrying
Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva
and his aides.
The clash began between 4 a.m.
and 5 a.m. Monday, as troops in full
combat gear lined up and advanced
to disperse the protesters, according
to witnesses and television footage.
The soldiers fired hundreds of
rounds from their M-16 automatic
rifles as they advanced, though it was
unclear whether they were firing at
or over the protesters. Some witness-
es said tear gas was also fired.
The official Erawan emergency
TICKETS
From Page 1A
ments to address the issue.
"That is why our (Athletic Direc-
tor) Bill Martin made sure single-
game ticket prices are lower this
season," he wrote.
In February, Martin announced
the price of student season foot-
ball tickets would be $200 for
the 2009 season, a decrease of an
average of $1.43 per game. Regu-
lar season football tickets also
decreased an average of $3.57 per
game, and the eight-game pack-
the michigan daily
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus

coordination center said 49 people
were injured on both sides and
taken to hospitals.
Protesters set fires that were
still burning 1-1/2 hours later and
retreated into side streets near the
Din Daeng intersection, where there
is an on-ramp to the main express-
way leadingnorth from the capital.
The clash appeared to be an iso-
lated one, taking place several miles
away from the main encampment of
thousands of protesters outside the
prime minister's offices.
Police Gen. Vichai Sangparpai
said up to 30,000 demonstrators
were scattered around the city.
Police vans at some intersections
were abandoned and looted. Pro-
testers used buses to barricade sev-
eral major roads.
Ousted Prime Minister Thaksin
Shinawatra, regarded by most of
the protesters as their leader, called
for a revolution and said he might
return from exile to lead it.
Thaksin fled the country last
year, before a court convicted him
in absentia of violating a conflict of
interest law.
"Now that they have tanks on the
streets, it is time for the people to
come out in revolution. And when
it is necessary, I will come back
to the country," he said in a tele-
phoned message to followers out-
side Abhisit's office.
The message was broadcast over
a video link projected on giant
screens and relayed on supporters'
Internet sites.
Political tensions have simmered
since Thaksin was ousted by a mili-
tary coup in 2006 for alleged cor-
ruption and abuse of power.
age now costs $400.
"It's a tough economic time
and there's no need to increase
ticket prices," Madej told the Daily
in February. "We're fortunate
enough that we can hold the line,
and even decrease them.
Tuesday's deadline is only for
student season tickets, Madej said.
The deadline for regular season
tickets is still about a month away.
"We wanted to make sure all
U-M students know they still can
get their tickets," Madej wrote in
the e-mail. "And we also did think
the spring game would help remind
people too about the deadline."

WIND ENERGY
From Page 1A
Gov. Jennifer Granholm high-
lighted the Scandinavian country's
experience with wind power in her
weekly radio address.
"Denmark leads the world in
wind power technology, an indus-
try employing 20,000 people in a
nation with half Michigan's popu-
lation," she said. "In fact, Denmark
has a 2.2 percent unemployment
rate."
Denmarkwas completely depen-
dent on imported fuel until after
the 1973 oil crisis, when Danish
officials resolved to find alterna-
tive energy sources.
"So, in a week where we saw
our state's January unemployment
rate rise to 11.6 percent, driven in
large part by continued job losses
in the automotive manufacturing
sector," Granholm said in the radio
address, "Denmark's story is noth-
ing short of inspirational."
Now at 12 percent and steadily
rising, Michigan has the highest
unemployment rate in the country.
The state has been crippled by the
decline of the auto industry, some-
thing that has sped up as the coun-
try falls deeper into recession.
Call it lofty, or even impossible,
but Granholm is hoping that the
synergy oftwocrises -one aunique
economic struggle for the state of
Michigan and one a profoundly
existential test for humanity - will
create the "perfect storm" to spark
much-needed economic growth
and restore Michigan's place as the
world's innovative manufacturing
nerve center.
If wind power were made more
viable and, consequently, in higher
demand, Michigan could build the
equipmentrand infrastructure that
not only Michigan - which has so
much wind capture potential and
currently imports 80 percent of
its energy - but the whole world
would have its sights on. And
thanks to the near-collapse of the
American auto industry, the state
has more excess manufacturing
capacity than any other.
University alum Pete Tchoryk
is just one of the innovators in
Ann Arbor who has been working
to improve wind energy technolo-
gies.
"It's a perfect scenario for (wind
power in) Michigan," he said.
Tchoryk's company, WindSight,
is a spin-off from the Michigan
Aerospace Corporation that was
formed in 1996 to help commer-
cialize developments of the Uni-
versity's Space Physics Research
Laboratory. The company has
developed ultraviolet lasers that
provide long-range 3D mapping of
wind and atmospheric conditions
for potential wind farm sites.
"One of the things that I see as
really critical, and this is some-
thing that Michigan can really
take the lead on, is in really doing

a more thorough job than anyone
else of doing pre-assessments of
where the best locations are to do
wind farms, both onshore and off-
shore," Tchoryk said.
WindSight's lasers and accom-
panying software can simulta-
neously measure wind speed,
direction, temperature, den-
sity and water vapor. Better site
assessment translates to more
reliable and efficient wind cap-
ture, Tchoryk said, which makes
wind power a much more attrac-
tive investment.
Since the lasers can take mea-
surements from over 10 kilome-
ters away, they can assess both on
and offshore sites.
"You can have our system sit-
ting on land, and then map out the
winds over the water," Tchoryk
said. "That in particular is really
useful.
"Right now, it's just extremely
expensive to put a tower with
anemometers and weather vanes
out in the middle of the water," he
said. "And you have to drop a con-
crete pylon. It's really outrageous-
ly expensive."
The funding for WindSight's
technology, which was mostly
developed under Michigan Aero-
space, "has been quite extensive,"
Tchoryk said, coming primar-
ily from National Aeronautics and
Space Administration and the U.S.
Department of Defense.
Though WindSight is rela-
tively new and still seeking capi-
tal, Tchoryk announced in early
March that the company would
create about 60 jobs in Ann Arbor
and elsewhere in Michigan over
the next few years to start manu-
facturing the systems.
In hopes of funneling more
money into the wind energy sec-
tor, Jerry Lynch, an assistant
professor in the Civil and Envi-
ronmental Engineering and Elec-
trical Engineering and Computer
Science departments, has devel-
oped a remote monitoring system
for turbines that could cut costs
for wind farm operators and make
turbines more profitable.
"Wind turbines are somewhat
of a damage-prone engineered sys-
tem," Lynch said. "Turbine blades
may break, the turbine towers may
experience some local damage
and even the equipment inside the
turbine is prone to damage such as
the gears and the power genera-
tion unit."
Lynch's structural health
monitoring system, whose devel-
opment is funded mostly by the
National Science Foundation and
the University's Office of the Vice
President for Research, uses wire-
less micro-sensors to collect data
about the structural well-being of
wind turbines using "automated
damage detection algorithms."
"The hope is that the data we
can collect will allow us to iden-
tify damage before it becomes a
serious concern, and we can fix

that da
large at
said. "I
term u
cost eff
Lync
in the t.
Lync
los Ces
Engine
Univers
and Str
tory, be
last ye
Hanove
sensors
there.
He p
dia Nat
Depart
by the
ny, to t
in the
future.
"I
S
(V
in
T
Lync
sors ca
"delicat
able an
wind et
"It's
power)
ogy to
into it,"
could r
petitive
source.
Butd
only wa
Met
Sridhar
nology
the wi
wind tu
Kota
sys, In
in 200
express
to sha
With f
ment o
fully d
- inclu
morphi
accordi
necessa
drag, w
fuel sav
Kota
concep
like a n
"Tha
sitione
he said
The
25-30 f
attache

image before it becomes these are typically around 100 feet
nd expensive to repair," he long - adjusts its shape continu-
t actually will make long- ously as wind conditions change.
se of wind turbines more The result is 15 percent more
icient." energy captured by the turbine,
h's technology is currently certified by Sandia National Labs.
esting stages. Kota said that while the blades are
h and his collaborator Car- somewhat more expensive, they
nik, professor of Aerospace pay for themselves quite quickly
ering and director of the from the extra energy they pro-
ity's Active Aeroelasticity duce.
'uctures Research Labora- "You design a wind turbine to
gan a working partnership last 25 years," he said. "You get
ar with the University of your money back in two and a half
'r in Germany to test the years, and then you continue to get
on running turbines 15 percent more energy."
He noted that two and a half
lans on working with San- years could be an overestimate,
ional Laboratories, a U.S. as "additional gains from reduced
ment of Energy facility run stress" on the blades resulting
Lockheed Martin Compa- from his technology are difficult
est the sensors on turbines to quantify.
United States in the near Kota said that a number of
venture capital firms are "seri-
ously interested" in the Adaptive
Blades, but he's put them on hold
while Flexsys prepares for more
ts a perfect testing, including a test on a full-
scale turbine.
cenario for Additionally, a handful of Uni-
versity students came up with an
wind power idea that combines wind capture
with another revenue source -
M ichigan), advertisement.
Mechanical Engineering grad-
choryk said. uate student Joe Belter, Business
sophomore Don Tappan, Energy
Systems Engineering graduate
student Dave Clark and Prateek
h said he hopes these sen- Chourdia, an Engineering alum
n help "tip the scale" on the who graduated last fall, started
e balance between profit- UrbanWind Solutions lastNovem-
d not-so-profitable" in the ber as an entry for the Michigan
nergy industry. Business Challenge and the Clean
beneficial to make (wind Energy Prize.
a more profitable technol- From their three-minute pitch
entice more investment on YouTube:
'he said. "This technology "I'm sure you've seen the toys
eally enhance the costcom- that are sold in amusement parks
ness of wind as an energy that little kids spin in their hands.
These have small strips of LEDS
Iriving down costs isn't the in the outermost point that flicker
iy to increase profitability. to produce some text ... imagine
hanical Engineering Prof. combining this technology with
rKota has developed a tech- the three blades of a helical ver-
that significantly increases tical axis wind turbine. As the
nd capture capability of wind rotates the blades, renew-
rbines. able clean energy is not only being
is the president of Flex- fed directly into nearby buildings
c., a company he started and the grid, but it's also used to
0 after the U.S. Air Force power the LEDS that create kinet-
ed interest in his approach it advertising space."
pe-morphing technology. Although they were eliminated
unding from the Depart- in the second round of the Clean
f Defense, Flexsys success- Energy Prize, it ultimately led to
esigned, built and tested their selection for a spring break
ding a flight test - a shape- trip to San Francisco with the Col-
ng aircraft wing flap that, lege of Engineering's Center for
ng to Kota, provides the Entrepreneurship with about 30
try lift while also reducing other students to meet with ven-
hich "directly amounts to ture capitalists and alumni.
'ings." The group was also awarded
said applying the same a $1,500 "Dare to Dream" grant
ts to wind turbines seemed from the Zell Lurie Institute at the
atural progression. Ross School of Business fora "fea-
it technology readily tran- sibility study of the possible mar-
d to wind turbine blades," ket for Urban Wind Solutions,"
Tappan said.
Flexsys Adaptive Blade, a Tappan said they plan on using
oot trailing edge flap that the grant to build a table-top size
's to the turbine blade - prototype.

AMAZING SUBLET AVAIL for
Spring/Summer. 904 Church St. prkg,
lndry, big lawn, price neg 810-772-9691
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 5. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direc t v intl.
fully furn. $350/person or best offer.
Right near bus stop. 513-315-6273.
estesb@umich.edu
ser v ices
080
HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week- To order visit
 home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-H exp.
996-9566 or writeon@iserv.net
WRITE YOUR LIFE STORY!
A creative writing workshop with Gail
Balden on May 30, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
Ann Arbor Friends Meetinghouse
1429 Hill Street, Ann Arbor
www.creativejourneys.net
503-368-7807
help wanted
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
* in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
O PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
LAB INTERNSHIP FULL-time in-
ternships in rheumatology research
available for spring/summer semesters.
Duties may include: signal transduc-
tion, gene therapy studies, cell culture,
proliferation, chemotaxis, ELISA, IHC,
western blotting, protein purification,
in vivo studies, lab org & maint,
reagent prep, data entry/analysis. Prefer
some lab experience. Contact
axilla@umich.edu with resume (pdf).
summer "p~ye
093
CANCER RESEARCH SUMMER
INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
(CaRSIP)
As part of its Cancer Biology Training
Program, the University of Micbigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part
with funding from the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH) is providing expo-
sure to cancer research for highly moti-
vated and talented college undergradu-
ates. This program will give the suc-
cessful applicants an opportunity to ex-
plore potential careers in the field of
cancer. Interns are paid a stipend of
$4,500 for ten weeks during the sum-
mer and are aimed at students who are
completing their sophomore or junior
undergraduate year this spring. In
keeping with the terms of the NIH
grant, we especially encourage applica-
tions from individuals from minority
groups that are currentlyunderrepre-
sented in biomedical and behavioral
research.
The deadline for application is 17 April
2009. Your application must be up-
loaded at the following site:
http://www.cancer.med.umich.edu/pro-
fessionals/summer internship.shtml
Questions about the program? Please
email La Cheryl Wicker at
lwicker@umich.edu
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

START-UP
From Page 1A
The website, MyBandstock.
com, enables users to buy $1
"shares" in a band. Investors are
rewarded with various perks, like
early CD releases, backstage pass-
es and band T-shirts.
The company's founders like to
think of it as more of a movement
than a business. As the digital
world has changed the way people
acquire and experience music, the
Recording Industry Association of
America and thetraditional record
labels it represents have come
under fire for clinging to a business
model many see as obsolete.
MyBandstock, like many other
companies, hopes to fill the void
with a new vision for the music
industry - an industry that School
of Music, Theatre & Dance junior
Drew Leahy, the company's presi-
dent, called "an entrepreneurial
playground."
"Everyone is kind of scrambling
around trying to figure out how to
monetize the music industry,"Leahy
said. "We feel that selling stock in a
band is the best way for an artist to
raise money from their fan base."
The idea for MyBandstock was
borntwosummersago,whenthen-
Michigan State University student
Kevin Pritchard wondered aloud
to Leahy what it would be like to
buy stock in a band and speculate
on its future.
Leahy said the two of them soon
realized that, due to regulations,
issuingactual securities with equi-
ty would be out of the question.
He mentioned the idea to Evan
Frankfort, a California producer
with whom Leahy was interningat
Would Work Sound in Los Angeles,
and it made a distinct impression.
"He was like 'I can't stop think-
ing about the idea,' " Leahy said.
"He got his entertainment lawyer
involved, and we just started writ-
ing up proposals and going after it."
Pritchard, Leahy and Frank-
fort rounded up some others for
graphic design, Web development,
finance and marketing roles. They
got their initial funding the same

way many bands do.
"We bootstrapped," he said.
"There were 15 of us and we raised
money for the website to basically
get a living, working platform."
The site, which Leahy estimates
took over 2,000 hours of coding,
designing and tinkering before it
was ready, officially launched Jan.
15 of this year.
Along with Leahy, most of
MyBandstock's operations are
overseen by Business juniorBobby
Matson and Engineering senior
John-Michael Fischer.
Leahy said the three of them
make up "the vision, the busi-
ness brain and the tech brain,"
respectively.
For Matson, who began work-
ing with MyBandstock in January
of last year, the experience has
changed the context of his busi-
ness school education.
He said a lot of people in the
undergraduate business program
"just take the classes to get the 'A,'
and they focus on the GPA."
"I think about how these con-
cepts can help MyBandstock liter-
ally every day," he said.
Matson was admitted to the
Marcel Gani Internship, a program
through the Zell Lurie Institute at
the Business School that pays stu-
dents to execute their own busi-
ness plans during the summer.
Leahy and Matson said they
plan on using this summer to
expand the reach of the busi-
ness. Primarily, they will focus on
securing more band partnerships.
Right now, there are only eight
bands using the service, and not
all of them have attracted invest-
ment in their shares.
The business is nowhere near
profitable yet, but in time, the young
entrepreneurs believe it will grow.
They would like to attract seed
investment by the time they gradu-
ate next year, so that they can hire
four to six full-time developers.
They said they're confident that
they can attract the capital they're
seeking if they can achieve the
right amount of growth and sta-
bility. That means working long
hours, Leahy said, "adding artists,
marketing, getting out there."

PROFESSOR
From Page 1A
ment, wrote in an e-mail interview
that he could not comment on Eli-
av's return to the classroom.
Though University Spokes-
woman Kelly Cunningham said
she was also unable to comment
on Eliav's case specifically, she
explained the University's policy
pertaining to staff members with
criminal records.
"There is no policy that lays
out a blanket prohibition of hiring
people who have criminal records
because that would be illegal,"
Cunningham said.
Cunningham further explained
that the decision made by the Uni-
versity is then based on the crime
committed and the professor's
responsibilities as a teacher.
"We have to look at the connec-
tion between the person's employ-
ment responsibilities and the
crime they committed," she said.
Cunningham explained that
whether or not the person in ques-
tion is applying for a faculty posi-
tion or is already a professor, it is
the actual criminal record that is
taken into question.
Based on this policy, Eliav's
charge of a misdemeanor, using a
computer to commit a felony, was
the only thing reviewed by the
University, not the initial felony
charge of prostitution/accosting
and solicitation that was eventu-
ally dropped.
A number of Eliav's former stu-
dents said they believe his person-
al past should not interfere with
his teaching responsibilities.
LSA freshman Reed McNa-

mara, who took a class taught by
Eliav in fall 2008, said as long as
the scandal did not affect him in
the classroom, there would be no
reason he would not be able to
teach effectively again in the new
semester.
"He was a good teacher dur-
ing the semester," McNamara
said. "Unless (the case) affected
his teaching, I don't see why he
couldn't continue."
LSA freshman Cassie Hazelip,
also a former student of Eliav's,
said she believed that the separa-
tion between professional and pri-
vate life should keep the case from
interferingwith Eliav's teaching.
"I think teaching and what you
do outside of teaching should be
kept separate," Hazelip said. "If
the University can separate those
two, then the students should be
able to as well."
Many students, however,
admitted they knew very little
about the controversy that was
made public in December. Both
McNamara and Hazelip said they
knew some of the details about
the case concerning Eliav and the
female law student.
LSA sophomore Andrew Dick-
son, who also took a class taught
by Eliav in the fall, said he didn't
know much about the case,
though he said he felt Eliav was
an adequate teacher and doubted
the case would affect his teaching
abilities.
"I'm not too familiar with the
case, but I thought he was a good
teacher," Dickson said. "But from
a moral standpoint I can't really
say if I think he should return,
because I don't really know the
details."


HANDY WITH A CAMERA?
JOIN DAILY MULTIMEDIA.
E-mail davazad@umich.edu


8A - Monday, April 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

4

4


Robinson Athletic Dept.
and Forcier got it right
.,t 1 I~hthis tim e
finally m eet here's a line between a fan-friendly game
and too many marketing gimmicks, and the
Mihigan Athletic Department has flirted
By ANDY REID with it before.
Daily Sports Editor Basketball promotions this
year included free pizza and
On National Signing Day in February, early-en- ticket packages that practically
rollee Tate Forcier couldn't even remember Denard begged students to go to games
Robinson's name. All he knew was what his mom had in order to earn Michigan mer-
explained over the phone earlier that day: the Wolver- chandise at the end of the season.
ines signed another dual-threat quarterback, and he Even the media was treated to
is really fast. an exclusive preseason hands-on
Forcier and Robinson were finally introduced practice with coach John Beilein
before Saturday's spring game. While Forcier warmed at Crisler Arena.
up with the first-team wide receivers, Robinson, don- It seemed like the team and COURTNEY
ning his bright red Deerfield Beach (Fla.) high school the Athletic Department were RATKOWIAK
letterman's jacket, made his way around the field and trying to compensate for the
talked with players and coaches. Bubbly and excited, : previous year's 10-22 record by
Robinson made his rounds, even stopping to sign drawing attention to everything except the team's
autographs. SAID ALSALAH (TOP) CLF REEDER (OTTOM)/Daly past. But it just came off as tacky, and the fans only
The two, along with redshirt junior Nick Sheridan, Early enrollee Tate Forcier impressed in his first performance in front of a crowd of Michigan fans at Saturday's spring game. started to respond noticeably when the Wolverines
will soon be battling for the starting quarterback He looked calm in the pocket, tossing three touchdowns - including a 50-yarder to redshirt freshman Roy Roundtree - and ran started to win.
See QUARTERBACKS, Page 4B for another. He and incoming freshman Denard Robinson will most likely compete for this fal's starting job. See RATKOWIAK, Page 4B

S
S
S

Relief pitching remains a problem for Blue
after dropping series against Big Ten leaders
By RYAN KARTJE Ines' pitching that doomed them in
Daily Sports Writer games two and three.
"I've seen these pitchers do a lot
With a full count in the seventh better," Michigan coach Rich Malo-
inning against Illinois on Saturday ney said. "Pitching was supposed
night, Mike Dufek stood dumb- to be our strength this season, but
founded,staringtowardthe mound. we're just not there yet."
Illinois pitcher Lee Zerrusen had As usual, senior ace pitcher Chris
just struck Dufek out swinging. Fetter dominated in his Friday
Frustrated, the junior slammed his night start, notching a career-high
bat into the dirt behind the batter's 13 strikeouts to lead Michigan to ar
box. He fumed as he walked backto decisive victory. With his double-
the dugout with a bent bat and the digit strikeout effort, Fetter passed
Michigan baseball team still down -Jim Brauer for fourth-most career4
10-7. strikeouts in program history.
Dufek's l - 1 "We believe Chris Fetter is the
reaction ICIN 11Sbest pitcher in the league," sopho-
to the HIGAN more Anthony Toth said. "He
strikeout definitely carried us tonight. We A
epitomized his 0-for-4 night and expect him to do what he did (Fri-
the Wolverines' weekend. Michi- day) all the time, and he never dis-
gan lost two of three, suffering a appoints."
two-run loss on Saturday and a six- With the team's relief corps'
run defeat yesterday, to drop the struggling, Maloney decided to .
weekend series against Big Ten- let Fetter go the distance in the
leading Illinois (6-3 Big Ten, 21-8 4-2 win. The weekend's other two
overall). starters couldn't produce nearly
Dufek and the offense didn't the same success..
have much of problem manufactur- On Saturday, junior Eric Katz-
log tuna in the series, registering man, who came into the weekend
eight on Saturday and five yester- with four wins, left the game after SAID ALSALAH/Daily
day. Instead, it was the Wolver- See FIGHTING ILLINI, Page 3B Senior Chris Fetter struck out a career-high 13 batters against Illinois on Friday.

SOFTBALL
Taylor breaks out of -
slump, leads 'M' in sweep

By IAN KAY
Daily Sports Writer
After struggling through
the first month of Big Ten play,
sophomore pitcher Jordan Taylor
spent last week pitching to Strike
Out - a piece of tarp with a hole
in the middle.
Yes-
terday, MINNESOTA 0
she was MICHIGAN 7
back to
racking up strikeouts.
Taylor twirled a three-hit
shutout as the Michigan softball
team defeated Minnesota 7-0 to
complete a two-game sweep at
Alumni Field. The Wolverines
topped the Golden Gophers 4-1
on Saturday.
In her previous five appear-
ances, Taylor had tallied a disap-
pointing 3.81 ERA and thrown
just one complete game.
"Everything was a little bit
off," she said. "Timing, spin, you
name it. What wasn't I struggling
with?"
But last week, Taylor spent
some extra time with Strike Out.

The tarp, which hangs in the
team's practice batting cages,
lends itself to a simple drill -
throw the ball through the hole.
Retrieve. Repeat.
When a pitcher's mechanics or
timing is off, that hole can seem
awfully small. Last Sunday, when
Taylor came to the practice facili-
ty by herself for some extra work,
Strike Out looked like a pinhole.
"It was basically punishment,"
Taylor said.
Last Wednesday, Taylor held
Central Michigan to two runs in
seven innings of work. She called
the game a "step in the right
direction" but still didn't feel
back in her pitching rhythm.
So on Thursday, she spent
another session throwing at the
hole in the tarp.
The extra work paid offyester-
day as Taylor tossed seven strong
innings, fanning 12 Minnesota
batters and allowing just five bas-
erunners.
"I was smoother," she said.
"I was thinking a lot less about
pitches. I was just throwing."
See GOLDEN GOPHERS, Page 3B

v

MEN'S TRACK WOMEN'S TENNIS
The Michigan men's track and field team U Seniors Lindsey Howard and Chisako
traveled to Columbus and avenged its indoor Sugiyama playedtheir last match at the
_j Dual loss. Page 4B. Varsity Tennis Center. Page 2B.


2B - April '13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

2B - April 13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Search ingof America S

next great individual
A lot of sports fans would Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson ately the sport - and all sports, in
tell you spring begins were paired on the final day of a general - needs aderce individual
with baseball's opening major for the first time sincethey rivalry.
Day. In some cities, that might be walked the fairways at Augusta This era has no Ali-Frazier or
accurate. National together in 2001. Magic-Bird.
Others might point to March Woods is the greatestgolfer We've had Woods vs. all, (at-
Madness. The of our time - as almost everyone times Mickelson, Sergio Garcia,
calendar tells knows - and has a chance to be Vijay Singh, Ernie Els and others).
us this is the the greatest ever. Mickelson is We've had Tom Brady vs. Peyton
most accurate the man who should be Woods's Manningi We've had Roger Feder-
seasonal mea- toughestcompetitor, though their er vs. Rafael Nadal.'
suring stick for rivalry has never fully blossomed. But all of those rivalries are
the transition So for a few hoursyesterday, missing one key element: unpre-
from winter to we could have seen a rare sight in dictability. For a rivalry to be
spring. NATE modern sports: one-on-one cor- great, both competitors need to
For me, SANDALS petition between the best in the have a shot at winning on any
spring doesn't world and a "great duel" according given day.
start until the to the CBS announcers. With Tiger and his train of
Masters. It didn't pan out that way. rivals, the advantage always goes
I'm not much of a golfer, but The best moment came on their to Woods - yesterday's result
there's just something about that second shots on the par-515th beinga rare exception, of course.
early-April major in Augusta, Ga. hole. Tiger's shotgave him a great With Brady and Manning, one
Maybe it's the soothing music chance at eagle. Phil's chance came is up and the other is down. Rarely
that CBS uses. Maybe it's the just moments later and he stuck his dotheir teamsmeet as powerhous-
deep green and those perfectly ball between Tiger's and the pin, es. Plus, it's hard fot a individual
manicured fairways. Maybe it'sthe as if to say, "Anything you can do, I rivalry to playout in a sport like
reverent hush of the crowd before can do better." football. There is too much going
every big putt. Then they both missed their on and too many moving parts.
It could be any of those things or eagle putts. Federer dominated Nadal for
many, many others. So forgive me The final round at Augusta was years, except on the clay courts
for writing aboutthe Masters - as exciting as ever, but not because of the French Open. Their rivalry
but it's a special event in sports. of the Woods-Mickelson pairing. may have peaked during lastsum-
Even if you're not a fan of golf, They both played well, but not well mer's five-setepic in the Wimble-
or the Masters, yesterday's final enough to take over the event. don final. But Nadal's recent
round could have been epic. It just showed us how desper- dominance suggests that match in

riva ry
England was just the point where
their two paths crossed, rather
than merging.
For someone who has never seen
a great one-on-one rivalry first-
hand, those lackluster pairings and
yesterday's scene at Augusta are
disappointing. There's something
special aboutgreatness matching
greatness. It's hard to embrace an
individualsport where the best in
the game is unrivaled.
For sports like golf and tennis
to regain their popularity in this
country, there needs to be a new
generation of one-on-one rivals.
The same could be said for the
NBA, which is still looking for
the next Magic vs. Bird. Boxing
is made for true rivalries, but the
sport isn't honest enough to pro-
duce them anymore.
Young.sports fans in America
probably don't realize how much
they're missing by not having
great individual rivalries to follow.
Those were gone before we started
spending our weekend afternoons
in front of the TV.
If an individual rivalry does blos-
som again soon, I just hope our gen-
eration will be able to appreciate it.
- Sandals can be reached
at nsandals@umich.edu,

CF FREEDER/Daily
Sophomore Jason Jung has now won three straight matches to rebound from an
early-season funk.
right shp w
B g Ten1vio
1 Icg '

Seniors lead Blue in last home match

WC
rhyt
win
Jason
of almo
didn't w
Durin
more ai
tennis to
dropping
to be exa
The w
fall off tl
But af
verines
decisive
Michiga
starting1
he woul
"A cou
lineup w
they had
dence," E
Jung 1
After
victory a
weeks a
native ha
utive sin
into thei
Ten rank
"That
mental
been m
able to
been dov
Many

olverines find included, have a renewed sense
of self-assurance after picking up
hm with fourth some wins in the past few weeks.
Berque said he thinks that might
in five matches have been what the team needed
to finally get going in the right
By MARK BURNS direction.
DailySports Writer Michigan's win over Purdue
at the Schwartz Tennis Center in
Jung endured a stretch West Lafayette was its fourth in
st two months where he five matches.
in a singles match. The Wolverines had to bat-
g that span, the sopho- tle swirling winds and chilly
nd the Michigan men's 50-degree temperatures against
eam lost confidence while the Boilermakers (1-7 Big Ten, 7-13
g a lot of 4-3 matches: six, overall). Despite the conditions,
act. Michigan won five of six singles
wheels were beginning to matches and clinched the dou-
he bus. bles point for the second straight
ter the 49th-ranked Wol- match.
defeated Purdue with a "It was tough to get a good read
6-1 victory yesterday, on some balls," sophomore Chris
n coach Bruce Berque is Madden said. "A ball you thought
to see the team he thought was totally off could come back in
d at the beginning of the because of the wind."
Madden, like Jung, defeated
uple guys at the top of our the weather and continued his
ere playingbad tennis and hot streak in singles, winning his
I lost much of their confi- eighth straight match at the No. 4
Berque said. position (6-2, 6-3).
s one of those players. Berque needs Jung and Madden
clinching the Wolverines' to lead the Wolverines (4-4, 10-13),
igainst Northwestern two as they play their final conference
ggo, the Torrance, Calif., matches against Indiana and Illi-
as rattled off three consec- nois before heading into the Big
gles wins to pull his team Ten Championships.
middle of the cluttered Big "I feel we're playing a lot bet-
kings. ter with everyone on the court
slump - it was probably playing up to their level," Berque
mostly," Jung said. "I've said. "But we're going to need to
ore consistent and been bump up the level of play even
pick myself up when I've higher aind show even more hun-
wn in a match." ger as we head into these last few
Wolverine players, Jung matches."

Sugiyama and
Howard shine in front
of friends, family
and team
ByGILAD BERKOWITZ
DailySports Writer
Close friends and seniors Lind-
sey Howard and ChisakoSugiyama
had an emotional final outing at the
Varsity Tennis Center on Saturday
against Purdue. Both seniors were
honored with flowers and a cer-
emony prior to the No. 20 Michigan
women's tennis team's 5-2 victory
against the Boilermakers.
During their time as Wolverines,
the seniors led the team in different
ways.
Although she doesn't donthe tra-
ditional "C"on her jersey, Howard's
contributionsasMichigan's captain
exceed a letter on a uniform.

Howard has been the Wolver- tennis for two years," Sugiyama
ines' captain for the past two years. said. "It was a really good feeling
She has accumulated a combined to have someone from my family
doubles record of 60-32, including there to watch me play."
an astounding 19-10 doubles record With her mother watching from
in Big Ten competition. the stands, Sugiyama notched two
She and soph- wins, a straight-
omore Denise set victory (6-4,
Muresan picked tia nt6-3) at No. 2 sin-
up a 8-2 doubles M y m omIy hash t gles and an 8-4
win Saturday en victory at No. 1
route to a doubles seen me --- doubles.
sweep for Michi- #ri And her per-.
gan (7-1 Big Ten, in two years, formance on Sat-
13-5 overall). urday was just
Michigan - one glimpse of
coach Ronni _her contribution
Bernstein said to the Michigan
that Howard's women's tennis
teammates look up to her and program. Sugiyama's time at Mich-
appreciate the energy she brings to igan is epitomized by one word -
the court. records.
Both seniors' parents attended The Parsippany, N.J., native's
the match, and Sugiyama's mother career includes significant hard-
even flew all the way from Japan ware: a conference-record six Big
for the special occasion. Ten Athlete of the Week awards
"My mom hasn't seen me play and the record for all-time singles

wins at Michigan.
With Sugiyama's routine singles
outing Saturday, she collected her
102nd career singles victory.
"After the match (on Thursday)
it was a relief," Sugiyama said ofthe
buildup and hype surrounding her
singles match on Thursday against
Texas A&M. "I knew how many
more Ineededbut I was personally
trying not to count how many more
I had to get to 101."
On Saturday, both seniors pro-
vided their usual early sparks by
contributing to a sweep in doubles
competition that set the tone for
Michigan's success. It was the
fourth doubles sweep for the team
this year.
Both fans and Michigan coach
Ronni Bernstein acknowledged the
seniors' efforts and the legacy the
duo will leave on the program.
"Our younger kids know what
is expected from them, and that is
due to our upperclassmen," Bern-
stein said.

Michigan's forgotten varsity sport:
Cheerleading is more fun than you'd think

t Michigan, there's a clear
pecking order as far as
sports go.
Football, men's basketball and
ice hockey sit atthe top.
Non-revenue sports come next.
And at the bot-
tom sits a team FELIX
that few people CARREON
even know has On
varsity status: cheerleading
cheerleading.
I wanted to see what it would
take to make the team. So after
some thought and alot of pressure
from junior cheerleader Graham
Block, I decided to give it a try.
When I arrived at Cliff Keen
Arena on March 29 for the cheer-
leading team's clinic, my nerves
were palpable. It could have been
the loud music that filled the arena
and the So girls auditioning for the
Michigan dance team that had me

thinkingI was at the wrong place.
When I found the cheerleaders
who occupied a part of the arena,
I quickly realized there were just
two other mentryingout alongside
30 women. If I wasn't nervous
before, I most certainly was now.
For the men, the clinic was an
introduction to stunting, basically
learning how to toss andcatch
girls.
As I stood there in the gymna-
sium, a single thought clouded my
mind: whatever you do, catch the
girl.
What couldbe more embar-
rassing than dropping a girl on her
head
Luckily, the members of the team
immediately introduced themselves
and made me comfortable.
"I saw you hit a chair and work-
ing on a torch," said LSA junior
Kevin Ginsburg, referring to

Clementa
a novel
Jim Martin
in a future world where humankind
has learned how to thrive in harmony
with a flourishing Nature, an oppressed
people awakens to its rage.
Please visit clementanovel.corn

cheerleadingstunts. "Ittook me
three days to nail a chair, and I'm
now one of five elite stunters on the
team:"
In a chair, thenmale cheerleader
tosses his partner in the air and she
sits in the palm of one hand while
the other is holding her ankle.
A torch is anmore complicated
maneuver. The partner steps onto
the man's hands while he is ina
crouching position. Then he lifts
her using just his legs and turns her
foot 90 degrees, while the other
hand is holding onto to her leg for
balance.
Instead of lifting my partner up
in the air for a torch, she ended up
in my arms. It didn't go so well.
Besides learningstunts, I real-
ized that I didn't know as much
about the team as I thought I did.
Most students think team only per-
forms atfootball games and other
sporting events,-but Ilearned the
cheerleaders do so much more. -
Besides their typical duties at
sporting events, the team prepared
for several months to compete at
the NCA/NDA Collegiate Cheer
and Dance Championships in Day-
A'S NT& FASTEST SiNCE 1973'
o
T-S H I T P R N T E R Y
* -Expert Screenprinting
Embroltdery
TEES, SWEATS, SHORTS
1 CAPS, TOTES, APRONS
A ult-Color We rum
*Printing I'Vour kotehm
" Ourjniitoly rintor-Sh1lrt Art
EMAI.:DEStGN FOR PROMPTQUOTE'
CATALOGU &EMAL liNKAT
A dniansTShirtscom
A 1002 PONTICTR.,.9 -13670

tona Beach, Fla., last weekend. The
competition tested the Wolverines'
ability to tumble and stunt with the
best units in the country. Michigan
placed fifth out of 14 teams in the
intermediate coed division. Despite
having the second highest subtotal
score, the team stumbled through
apart of their routine thatresulted
in a deduction.
"It's the only opportunity they
have to represent the University
of Michigan as student-athletes,"
Michigan coach Pam St. John said
before the team left for the compe-
tition. "The kids are really excited
to participate."
I was especially impressed with
the way the males on the team car-
ried themselves. They didn't take
themselves too seriously and were
just a bunch of guys having fun.
In recent years, the team has
faced a sharp decline in male turn-
out. A few years ago, there were
20 males on the team, which has
since dwindled to just 10. Recruit-
ing efforts haven't had the desired
effect. Last year, the team per-
formed stunts on the Diag to gain
publicity. The female members
have also visited the Intramural
Sports Building and the Central
Campus Recreation to recruit more
men.
But for men, being on the team
has its benefits. Members have
access to the varsity weight room
located in Canham Natatorium, as
well as access to a personal trainer.
Traveling tobowl games and
NCAA Tournament games isn't
bad, either. The cheerleaders also
receive a $150 stipend forbooks
each semester.
"Every guy has that look on his
face," senior Kari Teweles said."
'Are you serious? You want me to
be a cheerleader?' And thenthey
try it one time and they're hooked.
It's addicting,it really is."
So, guys, try it out.You just
might like it.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.comh

April 13, 2009 - 3B

FIGHTING ILLINI
From page 1B
allowing three runs through two-
thirds of the third inning. The relief
staff was caught in the same funk as
sophomores Kolby Wood and Matt
Miller gave up seven runs in five
innings. Their efforts cost the Wol-
verines a one-run lead that they had
held for the first five innings.
In similar fashion, Maloney need-
ed to use four more pitchers yester-
day after none of his staff could stay
consistent over multiple innings.
Twenty hits later, the Wolverines
(4-5, 19-13) left the field with their
confidence in tatters.
With the team's best reliever,
sophomore Tyler Burgoon, and its
clutch defensive catcher, junior
Chris Berset, both out with injuries,
Michigan couldn't find a rhythm.
Even Maloney couldn't avoid the
frustration.
In the sixth inning of Saturday's
GOLDEN GOPHERS
From page 1B
Taylor cruised through yester-
day's first three innings, striking out
at least two batters in each frame
before running into trouble in the
fourth.
With the contest still scoreless,
the Gophers' leadoff batter reached
base on an infield single. The next
batter, first baseman Malisa Barnes,
smashed a two-hopper to the left
side of the infield. Junior third base-
man Maggie Viefhaus, ranging to
her left, couldn't corral the ball as
it caromed into short left field for
another single.
With runners on first and sec-
ond and no outs, Minnesota (4-6
Big Ten, 21-24 overall) was primed
for a big inning. Taylor had little
margin for error. Just like pitch-
ing to Strike Out, she had to hit her
spots.
Showing pinpoint control and
overpowering movement, she did
just that, striking out the next three
batters to extinguish the threat.
"Usually when runners get on
base, I go into a different mode,"
Taylor said. "I really focus on shut-

game, senior tri-captain Kevin
Cislo was called out at second base,
drawing thunderous boos from the
packed house atRay Fisher Stadium.
Maloney stomped out to contend the
call and was ejected from the game
after an extended argument with
the umpire.
Cislo said the ejection was moti-
vating, but the momentum swing
wasn't enough to overcome the
four-run deficit that the Wolverines
accumulated in the inning.
"(Maloney's) showing how much
passion he has for us to win," Cislo
said. "He wanted us to win.... We
just couldn't get over the hump."
Maloney praised the efforts of
Miller and junior reliever Alan
Oaks, but he also acknowledged that
their solid pitching was "too little,
too late" after both couldn't counter
huge offensive innings for the Illini.
"We couldn't stop the bleeding,"
Cislo said. "If we could just stop
those big innings, it's a completely
different ballgame."
ting down the batters."
The performance also served
notice to Michigan's offense. With
Taylor keeping the Wolverines in
the game, the onus shifted to the
lineup to push a few runs across the
plate.
Junior catcher Roya St. Clair's
leadoff home run jump-started a
four-run barrage in the bottom of
the fourth inning, and Michigan
(6-2, 29-9) added three more runs in
the seventh. But Taylor didn't need
the insurance. She didn't allow a hit
or walk in the final three innings.
The win ran her season record to
12-4.
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins
said that she was pleased with Tay-
lot's performancebut cautionedthat
it will take more than just a couple
games for Taylor to fully regain the
form that made her an All-American
last year.
Michigan's lineup is potent at
times, but the Wolverines' chances
for a deep postseason run rely on
a dominant one-two combination
of Taylor and junior pitcher Nikki
Nemitz.
While honing her motion with
Strike Out is a part of reestablishing
that dominance, there is also a men-
tal aspect to her technique.

Former walk-on Fellows
emerges as leader for Blue
By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Writer

In the fall of 2004, then-fresh-
man Kenny Fellows showed up to
the open Michigan baseball tryouts
hoping to take his career to the
collegiate level. While Michigan
coach Rich Maloney saw talent in
the speedy young player, he didn't
have enough room on his roster
and had to cut him.
For a year, Fellows worked out
on his own and played catch with
friends from his dorm to prepare.
And in the fall of 2005, he showed
up again to the varsity baseball try-
outs, hoping to make the team and
knowing that if he didn't, he would
be back the following year.
"I knew I had nothing to lose,"
Fellows said. "I had been play-
ing baseball my whole life, and I
basically made the decision I was
going to keep trying out my whole
career."
While Maloney didn't offer him
a spot on the team that fall, he did
offer Fellows an extended tryout,
where he could scrimmage with
the team during their practices
that fall. Fellows was given another
chance to prove himself.
That spring, Fellows was added
to the Wolverines' roster but only
saw action in four games, record-
ing virtually no statistics.
"He had no ar iwhatsoever,
that's all everyone talked about,"
senior second baseman Kevin
Cislo said. "But his improvement
throughout the past two or three
years has been remarkable ... And
without him this year, our team
would be very different."
Now, as a fifth-year senior, the
speedy Fellows has stepped out

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Fifth-year senior Kenny Fellows has the Wolverines' second-highest batting average this season.

of the walk-on spot and become
a team leader. He's started all 32
games this season in the outfield,
and he boasts the team's second-
highest batting average at .345.
Fellows, who bats in the second
position, had a strong series this
pastweekend against Illinois, going
5-for-12 from the plate and scoring
two runs. His most notable contri-
butions came in the Wolverines'
losses, where he batted 4-for-7 and
scored a run in each loss.
He and the three other batters
in the top half of the Michigan
lineup did as much as they could
in the team's two losses to Illinois.

In both games, the quartet batted
7-for-15, while the bottom five hit-
ters batted 3-for-20 in Saturday's
loss and 6-for-20 yesterday. The
top-heavy performance paralleled
to many of the Wolverines' games
this year.
"(Fellows) had to prove to Coach
that he could play here," Cislo said.
"Then he proved to the entire team
and now to this league and our
opponents that he can play with.
us."
Fellows quietly leads by exam-
ple, hoping others will follow in
his wake as he makes himself bet-
ter every day in the Wolverines'

quest to be Big Ten Champions.
"You have to have that resil-
iency, that intestinal fortitude,
because a lot of the other (schol-
arship) players will get opportu-
nities before you," Maloney said.
"That's just how it works. You
have to keep working and believ-
ing in yourself, and I think Kenny
has been a great testament of
that."
And in a season where the
Wolverines are experiencing
unexpected struggles, the strong
resiliency of a quiet walk-on may
prove to be more of an advantage
than Michigan expected.

Football fans flock to Alumni Field to see softball game

Wolverines earn
weekend sweep over
Golden Gophers
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
As 50,000 fans filed out of the
Big House after the Michigan foot-
ball team's spring game Saturday
afternoon, many of them headed
for Wilpon Sports Complex, where
both the Michigan baseball and
softball teams
were scheduled NOTEBOOK
for 3 p.m. games.
The bleachers at Alumni Field
filled up early in anticipation of
another Michigan win. And the
Wolverines served up the victory
in a 4-1 extra-inning game to open
their weekend series against Min-
nesota.
"The crowd today - wow," Mich-
igan coach Carol Hutchins said
Saturday. "They were fabulous. In
all those innings where we were
getting it going, you could feel it.
It was electric. You feel a lot more
pressure to win in front of all those
fans, because you don't want to let
them down."
The contest was a pitching duel
until the fourth inning and a tied
ballgame until junior pitcher Nikki
Nemitz's walk-off home run in the
eighth sealed Michigan's victory.

Yesterday saw fewer fans, as
nany attended church and cel-
ebrated Easter. But that didn't
stop the Wolverines (6-2 Big Ten,
29-9 overall), who capitalized on a
couple of hot innings in which they
scored all seven of their runs, clos-
ing out the game 7-0. The Wolver-
ines finished the weekend against
Minnesota with a nine-game win-
ning streak.
"I think we are getting right up
to our peak right now," freshman
centerfielder Bree Evans said.
FEELING FRESH: Freshman des-
ignated player Amanda Chidester
has the highest batting average
on the team. It is no surprise that
pitchers do whatever they can to
avoid throwing to the freshman,
who is tied for first on her team
with six home runs.
Pitchers who tried to pitch
around her ended up paying aprice.
On Saturday, Chidester reached
base after being hit by a pitch. Yes-
terday, she hit a sacrifice fly that
scored Evans.
The Wolverines scored all seven
of their runs yesterday in two
innings, and another freshman had
a large role in that run production.
Freshmansecond basemanSteph
Kirkpatrick asked Hutchins earlier
in the year if it was in her plans
for Kirkpatrick to hit. Hutchins
responded that she would indeed
be hitting as soon as she started to
perform.
"You recruit (freshmen) to come
in and make an impact," Hutchins
said. "I expected all three of them
to be capable of that but that doesn't
mean that it always happens right

off the bat."
After hitting at the end of the
lineup earlier this year, Kirkpatrick
was moved to the leadoff position
where she found her groove.
She tallied three hits yesterday
and scored two runs. The two-
inning, seven-run escapade was
largely a freshmen job. But with
the powerful trio of Chidester,
Kirkpatrick and Evans, it may not
be that surprising.
"We can't believe that it's all
three of us - that we are contribut-
ing so much," Evans said. "But our
upperclassmen are helping us so
much. Theydon'ttreatuslikefresh-
men they just treat us like a player
on the team so we don't think too
much about us being freshmen."
DOING IT ALL: After Find-
lay's hole-in-one home run into
a trashcan just outside the fence
last weekend, junior pitcher Nikki
Nemitz followed suit Saturday. In
the bottom of the eighth, she hit a
walk-off homer right at the light
post on the other side of the fence.
The ball actually bounced off the
post and back into the stadium, but
it didn't matter. Nemitz and two
baserunners jogged home to end
the game 4-1.
Nemitz had already struck out
14 players and allowed just two hits
all game, but that wasn't enough
for her. Working the count helped
her get into prime position for the
game-ending blast.
"I was like, 'I'm going to hit this
ball,' " Nemitz said. "I ended up get-
tingto a3-1countwhichgets me even
more pitches. I was like, 'I'm going to
hit this.' Ijust took one and hit it."

ROB MIGRIN/Daly
Junior pitcher Nikki Nemitz dominated on the pitching mound and at the plate, hitting a game-winning home run Saturday.

What, you honestly thought we'd leave you
hanging for four months? Daily Sports will still be
S here this summer. Check www.michigandaily.com.

ABRA
THIS





But hurry - applications for summer
programs are due WEDNESDAY (in 2 days!)
Apply now at www.IESabroad.org
IES Africa " Asia " Australia * Europe
New Zealand " South America
ABROADV







4B - April 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - April 13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD
Wolverines snatch
pennant in outdoor
version of The Dual

0

By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
The Wolverines had their sights
set on the multi-colored pennant
at the Jesse Owens Memorial Sta-
dium in Columbus on Saturday.
Awarded to the winner of The
Dual, the flag, which combined
both schools' colors, stood at the
finish line for the duration of the
meet.
For the Michigan men's track
and field team, it served as a
reminder of the missed opportu-
nities to bring the pennant back
to Ann Arbor in the previous two
meetings between the teams.
The Wolverines made sure they
didn't leave empty-handed again.
Michigan defeated Ohio State
105-98 and celebrated by taking a
victory lap with the pennant wav-
ing above their heads.
With numerous injured run-
ners, Michigan coach Fred
LaPlante had to adjust his lineup
against the Buckeyes
"A lot times in track, there's not
a whole lot of strategy involved,
because a lot of meets aren't
scored," LaPlante said. "Here's
a meet where we as coaches are
a little bit more involved in the
outcome of the meet. It makes it
exciting."
Beyond the coaching, it was a
total team effort for Michigan.
Five different individuals earned
two event titles each to spur the
Wolverines to the win.
Senior Lex Williams delivered
a performance that reversed the
outcome of the previous meeting
between tle two team in Janu-
ary. Last time, on an indoor track,
Ohio State dominated the dis-
tance events. On Saturday, Michi-
gan took the top spots.
Despite a strong headwind,
Williams earned victories in
both the 1,500- and 3,000-meter
runs. Using teammates to shield
against the gusts, redshirt junior
Sean McNamara wasn't too far
behind. McNamara crossed the
finish line second in the 1,500-
meter run and third in the 3,000-
meter run.
The atmosphere was more
like a football game than a meet.
But with the Ohio State march-
ing band in the stands, Brutus

the Buckeye dancing around the
track and an appearance by Ohio
State football coach Jim Tressel,
the Wolverines weren't intimi-
dated.
"(Tressel) was the honorary
starter for the last event (the
4x400-meter relay)," LaPlante
said. "Obviously, those are things
you don't typically see at track
meets."
The meet also gave the Wolver-
ines an opportunity to prepare for
the less-common events that will
be featured in two weeks at the
Penn Relays, which is the oldest
and largest track and field com-
petition in the United States.
The 3,000-meter steeplechase
was probably the most intrigu-
ing example. Runners not only
have to cover the distance but
also have to jump a total of 28
barriers and seven water jumps.
Senior Brandon Fellows finished
in first place (9:15.80), providing
the team with a strong start to
the running events.
But in the end, it was Michi-
gan's success on the track that
garnered all the attention.
Led by All-American senior
Adam Harris, the Wolverines
won eight of 11 track events to
secure the victory.
Harris's performances were
the highlight of the day for Mich-
igan. He cruised to victories in
the 100- and 200-meter dashes.
His times were good enough to
qualify for the NCAA regional
meet and impressive considering
the windy conditions.
It was Harris's .effort in the
4x100-meter relay that crushed
the Buckeyes' hopes of retaining
the pennant. In the closest race of
the afternoon, the team of senior
Andre Barnes, freshman Nicho-
las Neuman, junior Kyle Trepak
and Harris overcame a 10-meter
deficit heading into the final leg.
When Harris received the baton,
he took over. He gave the Wolver-
ines the victory in the event by
the smallest of margins - one-
hundredth of a second.
"The pennant has now taken
some pretty good significance,"
LaPlante said. "They won two
meets in a row. For us to have the
pennant on our bus, it was fun for
the guys."

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Incoming freshman Denard Robinson and early-enrollee Tate Forcier met Saturday at the spring game. The two will compete for the starting quarterback job.

QUARTERBACKS
From page 1B
position in the summer - but
neither of them seems too wor-
ried about it. Forcier, who has the
advantage of an entire semester
in Ann Arbor and 15 spring prac-
tices with the team, impressed the
crowd with his swagger on Satur-
day.
Forcier threw for three scores -
includinga50-yardbombto redshirt
freshman Roy Roundtree - and ran
for another. He seemed uncom-
fortable in the pocket in the early
goings, often scrambling instead of
progressing through his reads. But
by the end of the scrimmage, he had
settled down. His strong, accurate
arm and agile footwork were a wel-
come surprise for Michigan fans,
including one in particular.
"I'm still close with some of the
fifth-year seniors, and they tell me
thathe hangs out with theguys, he's
having a good time," said Forcier's
brother, Jason, a former Michigan
quarterback who was in Ann Arbor
to see the game and apply for the
SportsManagement Master's pro-
gram. "Despite being a freshman,
he's taking command of the team.
They told me he's got that moxie,
RATKOWIAK
From page 1B
Before Saturday's football spring
game, it looked like the Athletic
Department might be at it again. All
it took was an offhand comment by
Rodriguez three weeks ago about
how he'd like to see more people at
the spring game, and all of a sud-
den, the press releases started roll-
ing. See the inside of the Michigan
football locker room! Kick field
goals to win textbook money!
Forget about last year's 3-9 sea-
son!
But this time, the publicity blitz
worked - and it'll be a shame if
this hyped-up edition of the spring
game doesn'tbecome a tradition.
The whole day was a little surre-
al. Rodriguez set his goal at 40,000
attendees - chosen arbitrarily, I
learned from an Athletic Depart-
ment spokesperson later - and I
thought there was absolutely no
way that many people would come
to a spring game.
But after arriving at Michigan
Stadium shortly after the locker
room tours opened at 8:00 a.m., I
walked up the tunnel and saw the
line. It took 15 minutes to walk to
the end. The line wove around Cris-
ler Arena and down Stadium Blvd.,
curling back around Michigan Sta-
dium and halfway down Main St.
At the beginning of the game,
attendance was estimated at a little
less than 40,000. After the first set
of plays, Associate Athletic Director
Bruce Madej walked by our seats in
the press box.
"People are lined up outside.
They're still coming in," he said,
sounding sort of incredulous. The
final attendance estimate was
50,000-- about 44,500 more than
the estimated number at the last

that confidence."
Most point to Forcier's accuracy
and growth during spring practices
as reasons why he's got a leg up on
Robinson.
And Forcier is already seeing a
payoff from his time with the team
in the last few weeks.
"These extra practices help so
much," Forcier said. "The first day
I was here, I was lost. I just didn't
know what I was doing. But as time
goes, you get coached up by all the
coaches. You just see your whole
game slow down that much. Since
I've been here, I've felt so much
more comfortable with everybody.
We're on our way to a good start."
But Robinson isn't conceding the
starting job that easy.
A sprinter who recently ran a
reported 10.28-second 100-meter
dash at one of his high school track
meets, Robinson has been working
closely with Michigan quarter-
backs coach Rod Smith since Feb-
ruary. The two talk on the phone
almost every day, often discussing
plays and schemes.
Smith has even flown down
to Florida several times to teach
Robinson the spread-option attack
face-to-face.
"I've got a pretty good chance,"
Robinson said about his oppor-
spring game under former Michi-
gan coach Lloyd Carr.
It was refreshing to see the foot-
ball program lighten upa little bit
and change the closed-door policies
that were so prevalent in the Carr
era. Some might think promotions
cheapen the experience. But dur-
ing a watered-down scrimmage
that was a prime opportunity for
marketing ploys, the Wolverines
executed them in a way that earned
some desperately needed positive
attention.
It wasn't only from the fans.
They got attention from alumni,
who came back in droves. Thirty-
eight former players were on the
roster for the flag football game,
and Steve Breaston, Mike Hart and
Desmond Howard, among others,
strolled around on the field. Even
current Pittsburgh Steelers line-
backer Larry Foote took a break
from his NFL conditioning to par-
ticipate in the game with limited
contact, contributing a one-handed
touchdown to his new team.
They got attention from recruits
- running back Stephen Hopkins,
impressed by the spectacle, verbally
committed right after the game.
"I've been to Texas A&M,
Nebraska, Alabama, Texas, Texas
Tech," he told GoBlueWolverine.
com after the game. "The atmo-
sphere here at Michigan blew me
out of the water."
They got attention from incoming
freshman quarterback Denard Rob-
inson, who walked the sidelines in
his high school varsity jacket. When
asked how he liked the atmosphere,
he looked around at the fans on both
sides of the stadium, nodded and
smiled - and didn't stop. It took a
few seconds for him to answer.
"It's good, it's good. It's got me
speechless - I don't really know
what to say," he finally said, looking

tunity for playing time in the fall.
"That's my gut feeling, but the
coaches are telling me I've got a
chance to start."
Robinson came up to Michigan
for a chance to meet the team, see
the spring game atmosphere and
prepare himself for the changes
he'll soon face. Robinson is mov-
ing to Ann Arbor two days after his
high school graduation on June 3.
That could be hard for the self-pro-
claimed momma's boy, who said the
hardest part about moving would
be "probably getting used to being
without my mom."
Robinson had a chance to sit
down with Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez and others in the pro-
gram in Ann Arbor, and that inter-
action could help in Robinson's
transition tothe college game.
Rodriguez, who has given Forci-
er high praise all spring, can see
similarities in the two newcomers.
"He's kind of like Tate, one that
picks up concepts well," Rodri-
guez said. "When he gets here this
summer, he'll come by and see us
and want to talk a little football....
Some of the veteran quarterbacks
do a great job of getting together
and teaching some of the things,
so Denard will get thrown right
in the mix. I'm excited to see him

competing with the rest of them."
Rodriguez expects the competi-
tion for the starting job to last until
the fall, since he knows both quar-
terbacks will experience ups and
downs.
But Jason Forcier, who trans-
ferred to Stanford from Michigan
after the 2007 season, isn't con-
cerned about either quarterback
picking up Rodriguez's offensive
scheme. Jason never fit in former
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr's pro-
style offense, and he said a spread
is much easy for younger quarter-
backs to pick up.
"The spread offense is something
that, if you can get the base down,
you can add a lot of the ingredi-
ents later," Jason said. "You can do
variations of all kind of stuff off one
play. ... Compared to the pro-style,
it's much easier to learn, especially
because there's not as much verbage
in it. You're not saying a play that's
20 words long."
Even though neither seems to
be concerned about the other, both
are known to be fierce competitors.
Forcier and Robinson will fight
all summer for the starting nod.
The speculation surrounding next
year's starter will keep heating up
- but for now, let the introductions
continue.

MEN'S GOLF
Late-round surge key
in fourth-place finish

By NICK SPAR
Daily Sports Writer
Tiger Woods and Phil Mick-
elson weren't the only golfers to
make late final-round pushes this
weekend.
As the third round of the year's
first major professional champion-
ship was underway Saturday, the
No. 46 Michigan men's golf team
was battling for fourth place at its
last regular-season event - about
270 miles northeast of Augusta,
Ga. in Wallace, N.C.
The Wolverines were in a dog-
fight with No. 29 Wake Forest for
third place on the back nine in the
final round of the River Landing
Intercollegiate.
The two-day, 54-hole event at
the River LandingGolf Course was
Michigan's final event until the Big
Ten Championships on May 1. The
Wolverines were bested by No. 45
and tournament winner Duke, No.
15 North Carolina State and Wake
Forest, which were all playing in
their home state.
After the first day of play, Mich-
igan trailed the same three teams.
It then struggled early in the final
round - sophomore Lion Kim was
the only Wolverine who shotunder
par on the front nine. But on the
back nine, all five Michigan play-
ers were under par, storming from
a potentially disappointing sixth-
place finish to a fight for third with
the Demon Deacons.
"I was proud of the way they
played, especially in the last six
holes or so," Michigan coach
Andrew. Sapp said. "We got in a
rally to make some birdies com-
ing in and turned what was a bad
round into a pretty good round."
Sophomore Alexander Sitom-
pul, who finished tied for third,
got off to a great startby shooting a
first-round, two-under score of 70.
His performance was highlighted
by a string of five consecutive bird-
ies on the back nine. Sitompul then
made two eagles in the second
round and added another in the
final round to finish five under in
the event.

"I basically just caught fire,"
Sitompul said. "I think it turned
out pretty good for us, considering
how bad many of the guys started.
So I'm just happy that we finished
the way we did overall after what
happened in the beginning (of the
third round)."
But Sitompul was not the only
Wolverine who helped his team to
a respectable finish.
Freshman Matt Thompson also
got off to a hot start, birdying four
of his final six holes in the first
round to post a one-under 71. He
finished tied for13th, and Kim con-
tributed ateam-low, four-under 68
in the final round.
Michigan made steady progress
throughout all three rounds of the
tournament. It posted a solid 289
and a 288 on the first day of the
event but saved its best for last,
tallying a 285 in the final round on
Saturday. Sapp said he was pleased
that multiple players were a factor
this weekend but still feels there
is ample room for improvement
heading into the postseason.
"That's the strength of our team
- our depth," Sapp said. "It's real-
ly beneficial when you got differ-
ent guys who will step up at times
and lead the team for us... (But) we
have to get everybody playing like
they're capable of leading the team
all at the same time. That's what
we have kind of been missing so
far this spring."
The Wolverines have a little
less than three weeks to get ready
for the Big Ten Championships in
State College. Even though. Sapp
wants improvement, he hopes his
team is prepared to play its best
golf in the postseason after second
and fourth-place finishes in the last
two regular-season tournaments.
"We're going in the right direc-
tion, but I think in the last two
tournaments, everybody would
say we haven't played our best and
yet we've had solid finishes," Sapp
said.
"Hopefully, we're getting ready
to peak at the right time in the
postseason, and we'll have our
games sharp and ready to go."

cLFREEDER/Daily
A Michigan spring game record 50,000-plus people came to the Big House Saturday.

genuinely overwhelmed.
Saturday's game showed that
despite people complaining that
Michigan is losing all its traditions,
the core of the program is still
there. Alums are still invested in
the program. The rows of recruits
watching from the stands, the vast
majority from in-state, showed they
aren't all running to East Lansing
because they feel ignored by Rodri-
guez. The incoming freshmen and
new players are still just as awe-
struck by Michigan Stadium as they
were under Carr.
And when you mix the classic
elements of Michigan football with

a little bit of new tradition, the fans
should stop whining that the old
way is the only way.
"It's nice to have a positive
record, for once," Rodriguez joked,
referring to the Michigan spring
game attendance record set Satur-
day. "The fans were terrific - they
really were."
It's true that this time, the gim-
micks worked. But here's hoping
that like the basketball team, the
on-the-field football show starts to
speak for itself soon.
- Ratkowiak can be reached
at cratkowi@umich.edu.


