MORRE INSIDE
UOPINION
F L E What President Barack
PRPER TAR I A Obamaneeds todofor
ATthe LGBT community.
See Page 4A
fIiE1id-igan it

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, January 22, 2009

michigandaily.com

Magee's journey comes full circle

An A2 native, new DPS
head goes from DEA
post in Colombia to
running campus police
By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor
Ken Magee, the new director of
the University's Department of Public
Safety, can still remember a quieter,
simpler Ann Arbor.
He can remem-
ber his youth, rid-
ing bikes down
Washtenaw Avenue
with a group of
friends, on their
way to the Michi-
gan Union to grab
a Coke from one MAGEE
of those old-timey
vending machines or go bowling in the
basement.
He can remember double scoops at
Miller's Ice Cream Shop on South Uni-
versity Avenue, or catching butterflies
in the Arb, wielding an empty tin can
tied to a stick with some string.
He can remember sweeping the
floors of Crisler Arena during Michigan
basketball games, and how his parents
- both avid Michigan fans - dressed
him in maize and blue as a little boy.
He can remember, too, leaving Ann
Arbor, for a more fast-paced world
beyond US-23 and M-14.
And now, with over 25 years of law
enforcement experience, from the Jack-
son Police Department to the jungles
of Bogota, Colombia, Magee returns
to Ann Arbor, giving more than just a
fresh face to the 38-year-old depart-
ment - he brings with him an intense
passion for a school and a community
he has always called home.
"I have a deep love for my commu-
nity. And although I've been away for a

THE LIFE OF KEN MAGEE
A TIMELIN E

190

Magee is born in Ann
Arbor, MI
Graduates from Hon
-1High School
Graduates from
Michigan State, B.A. in
Criminal Justice
GVSU Police Academy,
top of class
Joins Jackson, MI Police
Dept. with one year in
fire department
State trooper Craig
Scott shot and killed
Two federal agents
kidnapped in Bogot,
Colombia
Assigned to DEA post in
Detroit
Biggest drug-bust in
Michigan history (600
kilograms of cocaine &
9 tons of marijuana)
Begins two year tour of
duty in Bogota, Colom-
bia, stays seven years
Caught Rene Benitez
Federal agent for the
1996 Summer Olympics
in Atlanta, GA'
Magees brother dies of
drug overdose
Former DPS director Bill
Bess retires in March
DPS hires Magee in
November

HOUSING THE GREEKS
Greeks
undergo
housing
shake-up
The return of two chapters to
campus and city zoning laws
make property hunt tough
By NICOLE ABER
Daily StaffReporter
Among the most basic of services offered by frater-
nities and sororities is a house to come back to at the
end of the day.
But an elaborate shuffle of Greek chapters mov-
ing in and out of campus houses, complicated further
by strict city zoning laws and the limited number of
houses in the area that can accommodate such big
groups, has made offering that most simple of needs
for brothers and sisters a challenge for leaders of the
Greek community.
When Alpha Epsilon Phi and Sigma Chi were
allowed to make their returns to campus, Alpha Epsi-
lon Pi and Sigma Phi Epsilon, respectively, were sent
looking for a new property to call home. The two dis-
placed chapters had been living in houses owned by
the two returning chapters while they were kicked off
campus.
Blake Toll, vice president of public relations for the
Interfraternity Council, said two main factors make it
difficult for fraternities to secure housing..
First, Toll said that the fact thatnotverymany hous-
es on campus can accommodate all the members of a
fraternity or a sorority makes finding a house tricky.
"I-don't wantitnto come off as a shortage," Toll said.
See GREEK HOUSES, Page 7A

COURTESY OF KEN MAGEE
TOP Magee as a young boy in Nichols Arboretum in 1963. BOTTOM Magee shakes hands
with University running back Ron Johnson inside Crisler Arena in 1968.
while, I would come here, this is where I bar, one of the world's most notorious
would come for vacations, this is where drug lords, and Escobar's Medellin Car-
I would spend summers and bring my tel in Colombia. He has captured a top
daughter to meet friends, this is where 10 fugitive for the FBI. He has received
I was born, and this is where I want to the Administrator's Award of Honor -
die," Magee said. the highest award granted by the Drug
Magee has worked undercover in Enforcement Administration - twice.
Detroit and as a federal agent at the And now, more than two decades
Olympics. He has hunted Pablo Esco- See MAGEE, Page 3A

2002
2008


MARCH FOR LIFE

Former Chrysler emDlovee turns

Pro-life students rally in D.C. layoff into new business venture


40 students, grads to
join a protest against
Roe v. Wade
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
While many University students
were making their way back from
Washington, D.C. after watch-
ing the presidential inauguration
Wednesday, some students were
preparing for a different type of
trip to the nation's capital.

About 40 students and recent University's chapter of Students

graduates left last night for Wash-
ington, D.C. to join 150,000 people
at the March for Life - an annual
protest of the Supreme Court's
decision in Roe v. Wade - which
legalized abortion.
After attending the march,
which will be held on Thursday,
the group will take part in the first
Life Prizes Awards, in which six
$100,000 prizes will be handed out
to pro-life activists. The group will
also participate in the Students for
Life of America Conference.
Lauren Bennett, president of the

for Life, has attended the march for
the past five years. She said it unites
pro-life activists from all across the
country.
She added that the-atmosphere
is both happy from celebrating life
and mournful for the lives they
contend were lost to abortions.
Zach Stangebye, vice president
of the University's chapter of Stu-
dents for Life, said he's excited to
see many people demonstrating
their support for the pro-life cause.
"A lot of the time, people don't
See PRO-LIFE, Page 7A

New system devised to keep bridges safe

$19 million project
created four new
ways to monitor
bridges
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Bridge inspectors may soon be
able to prevent bridges fromcollaps-
ing thanks to a five-year research
study conducted by the College of
Engineering and the University of
Michigan Transportation Research
Institute.
The $19 million project funded
by the National Institute of Stan-
dards and Technology and Tech-
nology Innovation Program will
begin Feb. t.
Assistant Engineering Prof.

Jerome Lynch will lead the proj-
ect, and work with 14 researchers
from the College of Engineering
who have developed bridge sensors
that will monitor the condition of
bridges. Lynch said the sensors can
be used to detect if a bridge is dam-
aged, cracking or corroding.
"Any sort of serious safety haz-
ard to motors crossing the bridge,
the sensors would be able to iden-
tify that," Lynch sold.
The system will also measure the
effects of heavy loads on bridges -
which is currently not assessed.
Four different types of sensors -
including wireless sensors and sen-
sors on vehicles and humans - will
be used in concert as a single com-
prehensive system.
Lynch said the sensors will gen-
erate data about the bridges as cars
drive over them. That data will
See BRIDGE SAFETY, Page 7A

FOUR TYPES OF SENSORS
The monitoring system would use
various sensorsto detect weaknesses inthe
bridge's integrity, relayingthe data to a site
inspector using wireless technology.
A special high-performance, conductive
concrete would replace the existing bridge
deck, measuring weakness by changes in
electrical conductivity.
A special skin lined with electrodes would
bepained overproblemspotson thebridge,
detecting cracks and corrosion beneath
through changes in electrical resistance.
Low-power nodes, obtaining energy from
structural vibrations or radio waves in the
air, would detectstrain onthe bridge.
A special test truck would be outfitted to
measurethe level of strain on the bridge
imposed bythe vehicle while crossing.

Sole Sisters, a shoe
boutique on Main St.,
opened this summer
By LINDY STEVENS
Daily News Editor
When Tamar Fowler lost her
job with Chrysler Corp. after 14
years, she didn't collectunemploy-
ment, leave the state or look for
another 9-to-5 job. Fowler instead
came to Ann Arbor to do what she
had always wanted: open her own
business.
Sole Sisters, the shoe boutique
on Fourth Street that has been
open since July, is one ofthe newest
additions no the downtown busi-
ness landscape. It's also Fowler's
own personal success story - even
in the face of a failing auto indus-
try that has left Michigan riddled
with some of the worst economic
conditions in the nation.
Along with about 1,100 other
employees, Fowler was laid off
indefinitely two years ago from a
Detroit auto assembly plant that
employed 6,000 people. An inter-
nal auditor at Chrysler for more
than a decade, Fowler said longev-
ity didn't prove to be enough to
keep her safe from the company's
cutbacks.
"I was surprised," she said of
her job loss. "When you've been
with a company for so long you
wouldn't think that one day you
really just wouldn't have a job."
But unlike some of her for-
mer co-workers, Fowler said she
didn't want to remain unem-

csNcEL VON eseUt cOrIGts/Daily
After working as an internal auditor at Chrysler for a decade, Tamar Fowler
followed through on a life-long dream and opened a footwear store in Ann Arbor.

ployed in hopes that the financial
situation for the smallest of the
Detroit Three automakers would'
improve.
"It's going on two years now
that I've been laid off, and other
people that were laid off with me
are still without a job," Fowler

said. "So I had to take it into my
own hands and decide, 'Do I want
to stay here and collect unemploy-
ment for 52 weeks or do I go out
and do something that I enjoy?"'
Finding something she enjoyed
is exactly what Fowler did.
See SHOE STORE, Page 3A


WEATHER
TOMORROW

Hi: 34 GOTA NEWS TIP?
LO: 13 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MIHIGANDAILY.COM
The Daily's coverage of Gaza events on campus
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX - NEWS............ ....2A SPORTS........................5A
Vol. CXIX, No.78 SUDOKU. ......A3A CLASSIFIEDS ...................6A
02009The Michigan Daily OPINION...........................4A THE B-SIDE......... .......1B
michigondoilyccvm


2A - Thursday, January 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, January 22, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I CAN HAZ MUFFIN?
..E I.

Undergraduates go underground

The prospect of being underground,
sweltering in 120 degree heat and sur-
rounded by reinforced concrete, did
little to deter "Tunnel Bob" from his
many forays into the University's tun-
nel system.
The University's six miles of under-
ground maintenance tunnels (as of
2000), which extend from the Central
Power Plant to the Medical Campus
and South Quad, supply heat to all
local University buildings, and have
long been a source of mythological
fascination for students. One man, in
particular, made the tunnels the stuff
of legends.
"Tunnel Bob," a University student
from 1971-75, often trekked through
the tunnels with a group of five or six
adventuresome accomplices known
as the Elliot Expeditionary Force.
The group was named after the Elliot
House in the Mary Markley Residence
Hall, where the members lived.
Bob, who never gave the press his

real name, explored the tunnels so
frequently that a security guard at his
dorm gave him the moniker "Steam
Tunnel Bob" - a nickname that stuck
throughout his four years as anunder-
graduate.
During an interview with The
Michigan Daily in 2000, Bob said that
the thrill of being in the tunnels was
"to do something thatwas sort of semi-
illegal, to explore."
Bob added, though, that sneaking
into the University'stunnels wasn't the
only illegal act he and his friends com-
mitted underground.
"You could pretty much smoke dope
whenever you wanted," Bob said. "One
time we went down there stoned and
we thought we saw a security guard
and we ran out (of the tunnels on the
Medical Campus) in front of three
campus cops and they were chasing us
around the Markley parking structure
- somehow they ended up on the top
floor and we ended up on the bottom,

and we got the hell out of there."
Bob also said that students explored
the tunnels to get into the Buhl Medical
Buildingto see human fetuses in jars.
"You went into this gigantic room
that had a ceiling maybe 20 feet high,
and you went through a door into
this storage room where there were
all these fetuses bathed in ultraviolet
light," he said.
The tunnels weren't only a popular
site for student adventures and pranks.
They were also used by the adminis-
tration for safety purposes.
In the 1980s, University President
Harold Shapiro and the University
Board of Regents usedthetunnels as an
underground route to enter the Flem-
ing Administration Building. Student
protesters, demanding that Nelson
Mandela be given a honorary degree
by the University, blocked the above-
ground entrance to the building.
JASMINE ZHU

CHANEL VON HABSBURG-LOTHRINGEN/Daly
A squirrel outside Haven Hall enjoys a muffin on
Squirrel Appreciation Day.

C,4c fitchigan Bailg
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA ELAINABUGLI
Editor ins Chief Basieess Manager
734-647-:336 734-764-05t8
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:Sun.-rhurs.1 ta.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
NewsTips newsntichigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@meichigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0s63
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@emichigandaily.con
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com,
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneytRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmilOVitZ ManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman,TrevorCalero,Julie Rowe,LindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
JennaSkoller,KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITOR IAL PAGE E DITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: EmadAnsari, Emma Jeszke, MatthewShutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor . reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Karte, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
DavidWatnick Managing Arts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: JamieBlock,BrandonConradis, Whitney Pow '
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
tif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIORPHOTOEDITORS:SaidAlsalah,ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Max Collins, Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
JessicaVosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian. Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer DisplayAdvertising sales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISI NG ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski Classified Sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
MarissaGerber online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl ulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceManagers
TheMichiganDaily(ISSN0745-967)ispublished Mondaythrough Friday duringthefallandwi' ter
terms by students at the u niversity of Michigan.one copy is availablefree o charge to allteaters.
Additionacopiesmaybepickedupat theDaily'sofficelfor $2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,startingin
septembervia.s.mal are$10,Winterterm(anuarythroughAprilis$115,yearlong(September
through Aprilis $19. University affiates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
uscitienfaearet35.ScCnsmutbesrepaid.TheMichiganDailyisamemberof
TheAssociatedPrssand TheAsocatedColletiate res.

14,

0

CRIME NOTES
Keys to science Burnt popcorn
building lifted the culprit in
WHERE: Dennison Building fire alarm

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Mass meeting Talk on women
for fraternities' and the economy

WHEN: Between Jan. 12 and
Jan. 13
WHAT: A supervisor for a
custodian who was cleaning in
the Natural Science Building
reported the building's master
keys stolen, University Police
reported. The custodian turned
in the keys and the supervisor
put them in an unlocked box
in a locked office. The next day
they were missing.

WHERE: West Quadrangle
WHEN: Tuesday at about 2:00
p.m.
WHAT: A residentburned
popcorn in a microwave and
set off a fire alarm, University
Police reported. The hallway
had to be ventilated, and the
alarm was reset.

Winter Rush
WHAT: The Interfraternity
Council will be holding an
informational meeting about
Winter Rush.
WHO: The Interfraternity
Council
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Union, Pendleton Room
Summer
internship fair
WHAT: An internship fair for
students featuring 30 to 40
businesses and service orga-
nizations from Michigan and
across the country.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 4 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Union

Fake Ariz. ID
$1,000 laptop .
se aconfiscated
stolen at midday

WHAT: Heidi Hartmann of
the Institute for Women's Pol-
icy Research, Randy Alelda
of UMass Boston, Prof. Sandra
Danziger and Kristen Seefeldt
of the National Poverty Cen-
ter will lead a discussion on
women living at or below the
poverty line and their roles in
today's economy.
WHO: School of Social Work,
ADVANCE, Center for the
Education of Women, Depart-
ment of Psychology, Depart-
ment of Women's Studies, the
University's Dearborn Gender
and Women's Studies
WHEN: Today from 3:30 p.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building, Educational
Conference Center
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Catholic Church officials
in Scotland and members
of the Scottish parliament
have denounced the classic
children's song "The Hokey
Pokey," citing anti-Catholic
origins and drug references,
canada.com reported. The song
was originally penned by Irish
songwriter Jimmy Kennedy.
Ann Arbor local bands
Starling Electric and Light-
ning Love will perform at
the Blind Pig on Friday. Doors
will open at 9:30 p.m.
>>FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE, PAGE1B
A postal worker in How-
ell, MI failed to deliver
thousands of pieces of
mail, storing the letters in a
self-storage unit in Livings-
ton County, the Associated
Press reported. Officials found
988 first-class letters among
the undelivered mail, which
included letters dating back to
2005.

4

4

WHERE: Biomedical Science
Research Building
WHEN: Tuesday around noon
WHAT: A Gateway laptop val-
ued at $1,000 was taken when
the owner left it for a half hour,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Mary Markley Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 2:00
p.m.
WHAT: A hall director turned
a fake Arizona driver license
over to Housing Security,
accordingto University police.
The resident asked for the ID to
be returned, and was denied.


I

I

I

I

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Obama to shut
down Guantanamo
detention center
President Barack Obama will
begin overhauling U.S. national
security policy today with orders to
close the Guantanamo Bay deten-
tion center, review military trials
of terror suspects and end harsh
interrogations, two government
officials said.
Together, the three executive
orders and a presidential directive
will reshape how the United States
prosecutes and questions al-Qaida,
Taliban or other foreign fighters
who pose a threat to Americans.
A senior Obama administra-
tion official said the president
would sign an order today to shut-
ter the Guantanamo prison within
one year, fulfilling his campaign
promise to close a facility that crit-
ics around the world say violates
domestic and international detain-
ee rights. The aide spoke on con-
dition of anonymity because the
order has not yet been issued.
A draft copy of the order,
obtained Wednesday by The Asso-
ciated Press, notes that "in view of
significantcconcerns raised by these
detentions, both within the United
States and internationally, prompt
and appropriate disposition of the
individuals currently detained at
Guantanamo and closure of the
facility would further the national
security and foreign policy inter-
ests of the United States and the
interests of justice."
WASHINGTON
Senate confirms
Clinton as
secretary of state
The Senate confirmed Hillary
Rodham Clinton as secretary of
state yesterday as President Barack
Obama moved to make his imprint
on U.S. foreign policy, mobilizing a
fresh team of veteran advisers and
reaching out to world leaders.
The Senate voted 94-2, with
Republican Sens. David Vitter of
Louisiana and Jim DeMint of South
Carolina opposing.
Republicans and Democrats
alike said her swift confirmation
was necessary so that Obama could
begin tackling the major foreign
policy issues at hand, including
two wars, increased violence in
the Middle East and the threat of a
nuclear-armed Iran.
"It is essential that we pro-
vide the president with the tools
and resources he needs to effect
change, and that starts with put-
ting a national security team in
place as soon as possible," said Sen.
John Kerry, D-Mass., chairman of
the Foreign Relations Committee.
Obama's presidential rival, Sen.
John McCain, was among those
who spoke in Clinton's favor.
ALBANY, N.Y.
Kennedy decides
she won't bid for
NY Senate seat

Caroline Kennedysayssheisdrop-
ping out of a bid to win appointment
to the U.S. Senate seat once held by
her slain uncle, Bobby Kennedy.
In a statement released early
today, she says she told Gov. David
Paterson that she is abandoning her
attempt to succeed Hillary Rodham
Clinton for personal reasons.
Her uncle, Sen. Edward Kenne-
dy, suffered a seizure on Inaugura-
tion Day.
Spokesmen for Caroline Kennedy
and for Paterson, who will make the
appointmenttofilltheseat,wouldn't
comment.

MAGEE
From Page 1A
later, Magee carries with him the
same mindset as he begins over-
seeing this campus's safety.
"I would like to make the place
saferthanitalreadyis," Mageesaid.
"I want to enhance the department
to make it more visible, to look at
the police officers as partners in
the whole social sector of govern-
ment services.
"I want people to feel very com-
fortable," he added, "from the
youngest freshman to the oldest
grad student."
In March of last year, Bill Bess,
the director of DPS at the time,
announced his retirement. Shortly
after, Hank Baier, associate vice
president of Facilities and Opera-
tions, appointed a search commit-
tee to finda replacement for Bess as
the head of DPS.
After screening about 250 can-
didates from colleges and uni-
versities across the country, the
committee's search was eventually
scaled down to six. Those six were
brought to Ann Arbor to be inter-
viewed in person. The number
was then cut to two, leaving Laura
Wilson, chief of police at Stanford
University, and Magee as the final
candidates for the position.
"When we saw Ken Magee,"
Baier said in an interview this
month, "what was most intriguing
to us, he has a professional resume,
but most impressive to us was he
grew up in the community."
Magee was born in Ann Arbor
in 1958 and grew up in his parent's
home just off of Hill Street. His
father, a neurologist at the Univer-
sity Hospital and a professor in the
Medical School, and his mother,
who received her master's degree
in social work from the University,
indoctrinated him in the ways of
maize and blue at a very young age.
"When you're born and raised in
this town, you develop a very, very
deep interest and love and affec-
tion for the University," Magee said
with a grin. "As a little boy growing
up, the campus was my playground.
I would ride my bike down to the
Diag every day."
"You'd ride your bike to a vend-
ing machine somewhere on cam-
pus, whether it be at the Union or
whatever," he said. "As an eight- or
nine-year-old boy you could do that
back then."
Magee began his education as a
youngboy at Angell Elementary on
South University Avenue, and later
attended Tappan Junior High,
finally graduating from Huron
High School in 1975.
After high school, Magee moved
to East Lansing and enrolled in

Michigan State University, begin-
ning the first phase of a 33-year-long
journey that would eventually bring
him right back to where he started.
Magee received his bachelor's
in criminal justice from MSU in
1979, graduating with high hon-
ors. The summer after graduation
he attended the police academy
at Grand Valley State University
where he was elected student body
president, graduating at the top of
his class.
"I enjoyed the heck out of it,"
Magee said of his time at the acad-
emy. "And then I was fortunate
enough, shortly thereafter, almost
a year later, to be hired by the Jack-
son Michigan Police Department."
Magee spent four years in Jack-
son - four emotional, trying years.
Four years that found him laid off
for a period of time due to budget
cuts. Four years that produced
two shootings - one of which was
a half a world away - that both
greatly affected his career. And
four years that helped to shape and
define his life.
In February of 1982, Craig Scott, a
28-year-old Michigan state trooper,
pulled over a speeding car on U.S.
Route 127, just outside of Jackson.
After the driver failed to produce a
registration for the vehicle, which
turned out to be stolen, Scott attempt-
ed to place him under arrest.
As Scott was helping the suspect
into the back of his patrol car, the
passenger of the vehicle pulled a
.38-calibre revolver from his back
pocket, snuck up behind the troop-
er and fired three rounds into his
back from three feet away.
At the time of the incident,
Magee was driving along the
highway on his way to MSU for a
graduate school course in criminal
justice.
When he saw Scott's abandoned
patrol car on the side of the road,
Magee pulled over and exited his
vehicle, stumbling upon the fallen
state trooper.
"I got out, I rendered first aid to
trooper Scott and got on his police
radio and radioed out our loca-
tion," Magee said. "And Craig, he
died in my arms on the way to the
hospital."
After leaving Jackson in 1983,
Magee applied to become a federal
agent, receiving his first post in
Detroit.
As an undercover agent for the
DEA, Magee worked on the
largest cocaine and marijuana
bust in the history of Michi-
gan, confiscating nearly 600
kilograms of cocaine and about
9 tons of marijuana on Sept. 3,
1987.
Magee was transferred to
Bogota, Colombia in 1988, start-

ing a tw
would e'
In Bo
DEA, se
the man
and sho
In Fe
month t
state tr
the side
Charles
McCulle
from th
gena, Co
taken to
at point1
And
multiple
"T
IW
thi
w
hip and
McCullo
and thrc
escaped
wounds.
"I wa
that wa
agent as
Rene Be
Magee a
and Mc(
get whai
After
case, Ma
itez sev
1995, cal
moment
In 19
was cap
to work
in Atlan
during h
night of
Park bo

co-year tour of duty that spectator and wounded 111 others.
ventually turn into seven. "It just so happened I was very
got, Magee worked for the near the bomb when the bomb went
arching for Rene Benitez, off," Magee said. "I worked on the
responsible for kidnapping little girl that lived, and I worked
oting two federal agents. on her mother that died."
bruary of 1982, the same Several years later, Magee was
hat Magee held the dying selected as the only federal agent
ooper in his arms along to testify against Eric Rudolph, the
of the road, DEA agents man responsible for the bombing.
Martinez and Kelley And then on April 16, 2002,
ough were kidnapped while he was stationed in the Pacif-
eir hotel rooms in Carta- ic Northwest, working as a super-
lombia by drug traffickers, visor for the DEA, Magee received
a remote location and shot news that his older brother, Bobby,
blank range. had died of a drug overdose.
although they were shot But despite the obvious emo-
times, Martinez in the tional and psychological damages
that come with losing a loved one, a
brother, Magee has taken the expe-
his is where rience and used it for good.
"I figured it would be advanta-
as born, and geous to take personal tragedies
and turn them into professional
is is where I treasures," Magee said. "And that's
what's happened in my family, and
ant to die." some of the things I've seen with
my own eyes. Take those personal
tragedies and make professional
treasures by utilizing those sto-
i through the chest and ries and examples to interact with
sugh in the knee, groin young people, or people who have
ough the neck, both agents substance abuse problems."
and recovered from their That is something Magee con-
tirnually stresses, using misfortune,
s very, very adamant that using personal tragedies and tak-
s one of my goals as an ing those experiences to help the
ssigned to Bogota, to see people around you.
enitez brought to justice," For Magee, it's not about the
aid. "I promised (Martinez adventure and the mystique. It's
Cullough) I would not for- not about the awards or the recog-
t happened to them." nition either. It's about the people,
years of working on the helpingthem feel safe and secure.
gee eventually caughtBen- So instead of slowing down and
en years later, in October settling in at the age of 50, when
ling it "one of the proudest, federal agents are eligible to retire,
s" of his career. Magee knew he was going to con-
96, one year after Benitez tinue to use his more than 25 years
tured, Magee was assigned of experience, and he knew exactly
at the Summer Olympics where he was going to use it.
ta. Magee's only night off "That's why I came home,"
is time in Atlanta was the Magee said. "It is home and it's a
f the Centennial Olympic wonderful place tobe and I bring a
)mbing, which killed one lot of those experiences that I had

Thursday, January 22, 2009 - 3A
on the road, for many, many years,
almost three decades."
Magee didn't know in what sort
of capacity he would be working
in Ann Arbor, he just knew that he
wanted to come back to the place
of his childhood. Magee said it
was just a matter of coincidence
that when he decided to return,
the position at the University was
available.
And with just a couple of months
as the department's new head,
Magee said he already has a clear
vision to enhance the department.
"My goal is to bring additional
investigative expertise here, my
goal is to eventually take a fresh
look at substance abuse problems
and problems that occur here with-
in the community," Magee said.
"My goal, additionally, is to take a
look at other crime-fighting tech-
niques that we might have for use
in the whole public safety arena."
Magee's philosophical approach
to law enforcement, he said,
depends on three basic things:
"Imagine a problem, be proactive
and be creative to try and figure
out a solution to the problembefore
it occurs," he said.
One ofhismaingoals,startingday
one, hesaid,is to increase the visibil-
ity of DPS. Magee said he wants stu-
dents, faculty and the entire campus
community to see the department's
presence on campus.
"As important as it is to be safe,
it's equally important to feel safe,"
he said, "because it gives you peace
of mind."
So as he settles in to his new
office, unpacks a couple of plaques
and tosses away a few more, Magee
understands that he's beginning a
new chapter of his life, one that, he
hopes, will be his last.
"I plan on being here a longtime,
this is not a stepping stone for me,"
he said. "Everything I did for the
last 30 years was a steppingstone to
get here and to be here and be fortu-
nate enough to get this position."


SHOE STORE
From Page 1A
In addition to the Ann Arbor
location that Fowler owns, there
are other Sole Sisters stores in
Detroit, Royal Oak and Rochester,
which are each run by different
women.

Fowler said she chose Ann
Arbor because it was home to the
University - a connection she sus-
pected would boost sales.
Though she has only been open
for business for six months,Fowler
said foot traffic from Main Street
has kept her store busy. The only
drawback to the location, she said,
is that it's not closer to campus.

With students as her target
market, Fowler said she suspected
business would be better if she
were a few blocks closer to State
Street. To get younger customers
in her store, Fowler said she now
offers a 10-percent discount for
students every Monday.
"Once people find out about us,
I'm sure they'll come," she said.


If you answered yes to both questionsyou
may be eligible to participate in a TOEFL*
Validity Study - and receive a $50 gift card!
To be eligible you must:
* Be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate
student at a 4-year institution in the U.S.
" Have taken the TOEFL test in the past
4 years
Study participants will:
* * Provide a copy of a college transcript from
the first year after they took the TOEFL test
(official or unofficial)
* Provide ETS with GRE*, SAT, GMATO or
ACT* scores, if available (official or unofficial)
* Complete a brief online survey
To learn more, e-mail Amelia Monk at
collaborate@ets.org by Jan. 30, 2009.
Copyrightr0 2009 by Educational Testing Sevice. All rights reserved.
ETS, the ETS logo, LISTENING. LEARNING.LEADING., GRE and
TOEFL are registered trademarks of Educational Testing Serice
ETS). All third-party registered trademarks are the property of their
respective owners. 10661
ET
TisteningELearning. Leadng
TOEFL.

L

Va.Tech student
fatally stabbed
A female student was stabbed to . 7
death yesterday night on Virginia
Tech's campus, the first killing
at the school since a deadly mass
shooting there in 2007.
The killing triggered a crisis noti- 8
fication system that was revamped
after the shooting rampage, beam- 1 7
ing an electronic warning around
7:45 p.m. that students should stay in 8
place while police investigated. Stu-
dents were told about an hour later 4
they could resume normal activity.
A male suspect was taken into
custody around 7:10 p.m., accord-
ing to a university news release.
Campus police responding, to an
emergency call found the man and
a knife they believe was used at the
scene, a cafe in the Graduate Life 5
Center.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Marian Wright Edelman
xfounder and president of the Children's Defense Fund
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 4:00-5:30 pm
Michigan Union Ballroom, University of Michigan,
530 S. State Street, Ann Arbor
Attendees will receive a free copy of Edelman's book,
The Sea Is So Wide and My Boat Is So Small: Charting a
Course for the Next Generation.
Free and open to the public. Reception to follow.
www.fordschool.umich.edu
For more information, call Jill at 734-615-3893.
Gerald R. Ford PC StudentsofColer
School of Public Policy in Public Policy
NATIONAL POVERTY
UNIVERSITY UP MICHIGAN CENTER



0

4A - Thursday, January 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C Ihe iic[ ig n ily


0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Permitted to play
Individual colleges should determine eligibility of athletes
After the disappointing season Michigan football just
endured, improving the performance of student-athletes
on the field might be fans' priority. However, many people
tend to forget that the time student-athletes spend practicing and
training does not give them a free pass to perform poorly in the
classroom. Luckily, the Senate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs has turned its attention toward the academic performance
of student-athletes, evidenced by a recent proposal put before the
group last week. If the proposal passes, it would change the way
students' athletic eligibility is determined, eliminating a dangerous
perception of conflict of interest and pushing students to maintain
higher academic standards.

Under current rules, a student-athlete
with a GPA below 2.0 goes before the Com-
mittee on Academic Performance (APC).
The APC then recommends to University
Provost Teresa Sullivan whether or not it
thinks student-athletes should compete.
A new seven-point plan, introduced to
SACUA by the chair of the Athlete Academ-
ic Advising Committee, Prof. Ed Rothman,
would change that. SACUA is expected to
vote on the proposal at its meeting on Jan.
26. If it passes, the APC would be stripped
of its power to make eligibility recommen-
dations to Sullivan. Instead, individual
schools and colleges and the University
would make the recommendations.
One perk of the proposal is it would
eliminate the perceived conflict of interest
caused by the Athletic Department's long-
standing and recently criticized practice of
sending APC members on all-expense-paid
trips to bowl games. According to Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Coleman, the
conflict isn't a problem because the APC
doesn't make the final decision of eligibil-
ity - the Office of the Provost does. But
even though Sullivan has the final say, the
APC recommendation is rarely overturned.
The proposed change in regulations would
temper the University's lack of action by
simply erasing the perceived conflict.
For student-athletes, the changes would
mean a new, more sensible way of assessing

eligibility. Putting colleges and schools in
charge would help tailor academic expec-
tations to each student, taking into account
the specific academic demands of each
school and college.
Most importantly for the University's
image, though, is that the new regulation
would ensure that student-athletes will
be held to the high academic standards
that the University prides itself on. That's
because colleges and schools have a vested
interest in ensuring their students have
impressive GPAs. The higher a school's
average GPA, the greater chance it has
of attracting the best and brightest from
around the country. That gives colleges an
incentive to insist student-athletes meet
and exceed the University's standards in
order to play sports.
But while the new system should go a long
way in ensuring that student-athletes are
representing the University well, there must
be preventative measures in place as well.
Student athletes' grades should never drop
to the point requiring them to go before their
colleges to determine eligibility. Coaches
and Athletic Department administrators
should be carefully monitoring their athlete's
grades to ensure that they are maintaining
an acceptable GPA. Because - devotion to
Michigan football despite a disastrous sea-
son aside - this is a university and student-
athletes must be students first.

All my little McCain-ites are
excited about the inauguration'
- Martha McIntosh, a social science teacher at'Dana Hills High School in Orange County, CA, commenting
on Republican students' enthusiasm for the inauguration, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
BELLA SHAH E-MAIL BELLAAT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU.
* * 7 tr..
Fair housing for all
s Obama settles into the times. It didn't include mention of tion team" have met with influential
White House, it's difficult for gender discrimination on its listuntil, LGBT figures to stay on good terms,
me to feel duringa period of increased tolerance but Obama must do more than pay
like anything has in 1974, women's rights advocates in lip service to gay rights. He needs to
changed. I still have Congress managed to push it through. pressure Congress into amending the
to walkthroughthe Kudos to the legislators - the maver- Fair Housing Act to include sexual
snow to get to class, " icks, if you will - who overcame all orientation. Furthermore, he must be
I still have mounds sorts of opposition to pass an undeni- mindful in his further appointments
of homework and I ably just law. to equally include gays and lesbians in
don't feel any dif- But it has to be more than a con- his administration with heterosexual
ferent physically. gressional effort. As he tackles the counterparts.
I feel a little more nation's other concerns, Obama must
tired, I suppose. Yet MATTHEW add addressing the issue of gay rights
from the way peo- GREEN to his list and galvanize a Democratic Obama owes
ple have been car- coalition behind the matter. He owes the
rying on for these the LGBT community. According to LGBT com munit
past two weeks, it's CNN exit polls, 4 percent of those com muity
almost as if they expected Obama to who voted in November identified as frba 1n- h m
be sworn in and immediately, they'd LGBT and 70 percent of them voted
be free from debt or cured of cancer for Obama. To put that into perspec-
or perhaps ten pounds lighter. tive, the same polls show that only
A few things have changed, to be 2 percent of the voters were Jew- Most importantly, Obama needs
sure, but America has yet to see the ish. Yet, courting the Jewish vote to set an example. The president is
true change we all expect Obama to was near the top of the list for both arguably the most powerful indi-
accomplish. I was reminded of this of the candidates. Gay voters came vidual in the world, but he has more
as I perused Wikipedia a few days out - forgive the pun - in droves to limitations than people tend to think.
ago. I had just read an article about support Obama. It's time that he paid There's only so much a president can
the political disagreement in Kala- that debt. really do, politically speaking. His
mazoo regarding housing discrimi- Unfortunately, Obama's not off to biggest role is to provide Americans
nation against gays, and I decided to a great start. His choice of the evan- with a responsible, moral and intel-
research exactly what rights queer gelist Rick Warren to give his inau- lectual model of leadership. Obama
individuals have when it comes to gural invocation was an affront to the must show more Americans in both
housing. Though thirteen other states millions of LGBT Americans whose red and blue states that gays ought to
have adopted provisions to protect basic civil rights Warren would pre- be treated like everyone else. No mat-
LGBT people from housing discrimi- fer to deny. Warren's Saddleback ter how hard the evangelists may try,
nation, gays in the state of Michigan Church adheres to a fundamentalist homosexuality will always exist.
have no such protection. There is no variety of Christianity that espouses After eight years of a role model
federal protection, either. conservative social beliefs and con- who had little to offer other than
The Fair Housing Act of 1968 pro- demns homosexuality. I understand choking on a pretzel, American's will
hibits landlords from discriminating the importance of giving both sides a look to Obama to change the way they
on the basis of race, religion, national voice, but perhaps Obama could have choose to see both themselves and the
origin, sex, disability and whether or chosen a nonpolitical figure from his country's issues.
not a tenant has children. But the act's past, a more moderately conservative As a nation, we have officially
neglect of sexual orientation has cre- minister or even simply a speaker who handed Obama the keys to the car. In
ated a loophole for legal housing to might be uncomfortable with homo- the next few months, we'll see how
discriminate against LGBT individu- sexuality but hasn't publicly likened it well he handles driving on the ice.
als and families. Despite the fact that to bestiality as Warren has.
it's still incomplete, the Fair Housing But Obama has-made some encour- Matthew Green can be reached
Act has already been amended a few aging moves. Members of his "transi- at greenmat@umich.edu.
A one-sided alliance

a

4

4

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emma Jeszke,
Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Emily Michels, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu. ,

I

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEPAILY@UMICH.EDU
MSA should spend time on Kallus isan LSA freshman and Borovitz isa Pub-
licPolicy senior


more relevant issues

TO THE DAILY:
MSA has once again proved itself irrelevant
in the face of pressing student issues today. At
this week's meeting, they spent hours on end
debating a resolution dealing with the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. Undoubtedly, the conflict
is of severe international concern and we hope
President Obama confronts the issue early in his
administration. Forgive us, however, if we think
it ridiculous that he might consult with the
Michigan Student Assembly when formulating
his foreign policy.
Muggings are on the rise in student housing
areas this year - why aren't we spending more
time improving the lighting for our streets? Rob-
beries over winter break increased significantly
from a year ago - why hasn't MSA been work-
ing with the Ann Arbor Police Department to
try and curb this epidemic? The state legislature
is considering significant budget cuts to higher
education - who will be our voice? We realize
the situation in Gaza and Israel affects students
on this campus emotionally and that many have
family and friends in the region, but MSA rep-
resentatives were elected to deal with campus
issues, not international ones. Yes, MSA has .a
responsibility to take positions on situations
directly affectingthe University community, but
when MSA simplybecomes a sounding board for
ideological debate, it has most certainly lost its
relevance asa representative of the student body
dealing with student issues.
Richard Kallus and Jeremy Borovitz

Gaza resolution a waste of
time for MSA meeting
TO THE DAILY:
Three things happen every year in MSA:
people hand out pink fliers with the same
promises in order to get elected, the election
turnout is bemoaned and MSA passes resolu-
tions that have nothing at all to do with their
mandate (such as the recent one on the Israeli-
Gaza Conflict). And all three of these things
are intrinsically linked. The reason there is bad
election turnout every year is because MSA
never fulfills any of the promises made by those
elected. That is in part due to the large amount
of time spent arguing and making resolutions,
especially ones that are controversial which
they have no control over.
It is understandable that MSA members
want to take stances on certain positions and
have people listen to their opinions - we all do.
However, they are not representing the major-
ity of students by doing so. The majority, I am
sure, would rather have them improve student
life at Michigan in concrete and doable ways.
Here is a lesson in leadership - you should
do the job you are elected to do before assum-
ing other responsibilities. If they are unable to
do this, then their next resolution should be in
favor of "economic stimulus," and they should
send us all our eight dollars back.
Ben Cousineau
LSA junior

n January 8, a resolution was
placed before the United
Nations Security Council
calling for a cease-
fire to the Gaza
conflict. Fourteen
of 15 members had
already voted in
favor of the resolu-
tion, and Secretary
of State Condoleez-
za Rice was set to
do the same. But
at the last second, IBRAHIM
the United States KAKWAN
abstained. _I
The reason
became clear in
the hours following the event. The
Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert,
went on Israeli television and boasted
thathe made a phone call to President
Bush, telling him that the U.S. must
not vote in favor of the resolution.
[Olmert:] "It transpired all of a
sudden that a vote would be held in 10
minutes' time. I tried to find President
Bush, and I was told he was attending
an event in Philadelphia.
"I know that if somebody tried to
find me on the phone right now, it
would have to be something unusual
and extraordinary for them to say:
Leave it all and go to some room to
talk to me. In this case, I said: I don't
care, I have to talk to him right now.
"He [Bush] was taken off the podi-
um and brought to a side room. I
spoke with him; I told him: You can't
vote for this proposal.
"He said: Listen, I don't know, I
didn't see, don't know what it says.
"I [Olmert] told him: I know, and
you can't vote for it!
"He [Bush] then instructed the
secretary of state [Rice], and she did
not vote for it."
Although the U.S. officially denies
this version of events, those are the
words of the Israeli Prime Minister
broadcast on Israeli television. As

an American, I am ashamed that our
president is taking orders from the
prime minister of Israel, a man who
hasbeen undercriminal investigation
for the last two years and who is set to
be indicted on corruption charges.
Since when is it the place of Israel
to tell the United States how to vote
in the Security Council? Rice had
already promised her Arab counter-
parts that the United States would
vote in favor of the resolution, only
to snub them all at the request of
Olmert. This is an embarrassment
to the United States and hurts our
credibility in a region where we are
already regarded with little esteem.
To governments like Egypt, which
stood by us in the War on Terror often
against the will of their own citizens,
is a mistake.
And why should we suck up to
Israel? We give them an average of
$3 billion a year in aid when their
per capita GDP is greater than either
Portugal or South Korea. What do
we get from them? An "ally in the
Middle East"? Our unwavering sup-
port for Israel has won us many more
enemies, and is a top reason cited by
terrorist groups, including Al-Qaeda,
for their anti-American activities.
And Israel doesn't seem to care
what the U.S. thinks. Before sending
troops into Gaza, they did not seek
permission, and in November, a top
Israeli Defense Ministry official hint-.
ed at the possibility of a strike on Iran
regardless of U.S. wishes. The insta-
bility that would result from such an
action can only be guessed - and you
would be the one paying higher gas
prices when speculators panic in the
wake of such a conflict. You already
did because of the Gazan incursion.
In the last three weeks of fight-
ing, Israel has shown its disregard for
the international community. Israel
shelled numerous U.N. schools and
the headquarters in Gaza. It even saw
fit to blast the Associated Press head-

quarters.
It is no secret that Israel likes to
play dirty. The Israeli arms industry
took in about $4.7 billion in 2007.
In the 1980's, they armed the death
squads of Guatemala and did the same
for apartheid South Africa's brutal
police, who suppressed and mur-
dered black activists. More recently,
destabilizing Israeli arms found their
way into the 2008 Russia-Georgia
conflict, and Israel attempted to sell
advanced weapons to China.
Supporting Israel
costs the U.S. more
than it's worth.
In the late 1980's, Jonathan Pollard
was convicted of spying for Israel,
having passed thousands of classified
documents to the country. Then in
2006, Lawrence Franklin was found
guilty of espionage against the U.S.,
for passing classified information to
Israeli lobbyists. The documents pre-
sumably found their way to Israel.
Sadly, in January 2008, Olmert
asked Bush to consider pardoningPol-
lard. Numerous lobbyists and Jewish
groups, including congressmen with
affiliations to these religious groups,
have also taken up Pollard's cause.
Since when do-American congress-
men lobby for spies? Since when does
the U.S. consider releasing traitors?
Since when does our country embar-
rass itself in front of its allies and
support attacks on the international .
community?
Since Israel and its lobbyists asked
for it.
Ibrahim Kakwan can be reached
at ijameel@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 22, 2009 - 5A

McCarthy
finally gets
his chance

Hughes one
call away
from fame

With new, difficult
routine, redshirt
junior earns spot in
starting rotation
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
Redshirt junior Ryan McCarthy
can do two things that no one else
on the Michigan men's gymnas-
tics team can do - a Kolman on
the high bar and a standing back-
flip without using his hands.
Since Gerry Signorelli in 2006,
no Wolverine has competed a Kol-
man, a double backflip over the
bar with a full twist. McCarthy
uses the skill as the first of three
difficult releases, his signature
sequence on high bar.
After three years as an alter-
nate, McCarthy's Kolman, Kovacs
and Tkatchev releases have gotten
him into the regular lineup. Mich-
igan coach Kurt Golder, who glee-
fully refers to McCarthy as "Flyin'
Ryan," compared the sequence's
difficulty to hitting for the cycle in
baseball.
"That's selling it short," Golder
said. "To me, it seems like it's even
more than that, and I watch a fair
amount of baseball."
McCarthy's flashy new high-
bar set is the result of countless
hard hours in the gym. Skills this
difficult often take a year or more
to learn.
But away from competition, his
standing backflip with nohands
reflects his cheerful, quirky per-
sonality.
"He's a goofball," senior Joe
Catrambone said. "He knows
how to lighten the mood of the
gym when things aren't going too
well."
McCarthy's shining moment
was when he called Golder out to
watch his trick during his fresh-
man year.
After making sure he had the
head coach's attention, McCarthy,
hands on his thighs, whipped him-
self backward - then landed on
his face. Golder laughed so hard
he cried.
"Only Ryan would think to do
something like that," Golder said,
still laughing. "I've seen him - he
has done it since then and he can
do it, and I'm sure he had done it
before that, but it's just like, what
do you have to gain by it?"
For three years, McCarthy has
maintained his happy-go-lucky
aura and a fair measure of ano-
nymity. Due to a broken hand
and a dislocated finger, he had to
redshirt his freshman year. And
because he specializes in pom-
mel horse and parallel bars - two
of Michigan's deepest events - it

was difficult for him to crack the
starting lineup, even when he was
healthy.
After traveling to nearly every
meet since his second year but
competing in just five, McCarthy
attacked practice with renewed
intensity this summer.
"I want to act now," McCarthy
said. "You can't just wait till the
next year.... If we're going to win, I
don't want to rely on other people.
I want to be one of the people that
makes it happen."
The Wolverines have seen six
quality high-bar men graduate
since McCarthy's freshman sea-
son, leavingthis year's squad thin.
At the perfect time, McCarthy
assembled one of the most dif-
ficult high-bar skill sequences in
gymnastics.
Instead of going home to Zions-
ville, Ind., McCarthy remained in
Ann Arbor for the summer, adding
exciting new skills to his parallel
bars and high bar routines.
Golder said he expects McCa-
rthy to make the lineup consis-
tently, and the redshirt junior has
also qualified for the Winter Cup
for the first time since his junior
year of high school.
At the event, held every Febru-
ary in Las Vegas, thebest gymnasts
ini the country compete for spots
on the U. S. Senior National Team.
Though he qualified in high school,
McCarthy has never made it to the
Winter Cup. A few months before
he was scheduled to go, McCarthy
was in a car accident and had to sit
out most of his season. Since then,
it'sbeen a personal goal to compete
at the Winter Cup.
"The fact that I made it there
and gotthat taken away has always
been frustrating for me," McCa-
rthy said. "It feels good inside to
get back to qualifying."
Senior teammate John Sawicki,
McCarthy's roommate of two
years, has watched his friend con-
sistently travel but not compete.
"I just want to see him hit sets,
because I know sometimes he has
trouble," Sawicki said. "He works
so hard doing probably more rou-
tines than anyone else, and he
should be consistent. I just hope
he can get his head in the game
and hit all his routines this year."
Staying loose and continuing
to have fun may be just the thing
to help McCarthy hit consistently
in competition this year. In the
tighter meets, his scores will be
crucial.
"I feel that he is a new and
improved Ryan, because the old
Ryan would tense up and get ner-
vous and end up falling on the
event," Catrambone said. "He's
been working on controlling his
emotions better on each event and
I really feel that he will be a com-
petitor this year."

20 years later, team
reflects on waning
seconds of title game
By ALEX PROSPERI
Daily Sports Writer
The name Rumeal Robinson is
synonymous with the 1989 Michi-
gan men's basketball NCAA Cham-
pionship.
The All-American point guard hit
two free throws in overtime to take
down Seton Hall 80-79 in the title
game, giving Michigan its first and
only title since it began play in 1909.
"That's the biggest one there, that
one right there is what decorates
this place," former forward Sean
Higgins said while looking at the
1989 National Championship ban-
ner last Saturday when he and the
team were honored during the Wol-
verines' 65-58 loss to Ohio State.
Along with Glen Rice, Robinson
graced Sports Illustrated's cover the
next week, which read- "Michigan:
King of the Court." Eight months
later, the magazine put Robinson
back on the cover, this time for its
college basketball preview issue.
Robinson was the star of The Big
Ten Network's special "The Great-
est Seasons:1989 Basketball," which
chronicled the standout years by
multiple Big Ten teams.
Robinson, who now works in

real-estate development, was a star
prior to hitting the free throws. But
scoring the game-winning points in
a national championship catapulted
him to a whole different level. If
you're a Michigan fan, whether you
were born before or after the game,
you know Rumeal Robinson.
But had it not been for one whis-
tle, it could have been another Wol-
verine basking in the spotlight.
With eight seconds left in over-
time, Seton Hall led 79-78. Pirate
guard John Morton air-balled a
jumper as the shotclock expired, and
Rice grabbed theboard and passed to
Robinson. He immediately took off
downcourt as the clock ticked closer
towards zero. After maneuvering
through a few Seton Hall defend-
ers, Robinson drove the lane, rose
to shoot and was fouled. Looking at
the replay, there was little contact
between Robinson and the Pirate
defender. In fact, had it not been
the last play of the game, the referee
might have swallowed his whistle.
As the whistle blew and Robin-
son hung in the air, he decided not
to shoot, but instead, pass. Robin-
son claims that he passed the ball
because he was fouled, but it may
have been because Seton Hall's big-
gest defender, who dropped into the
lane to help, that would have made it
difficult for Robinson to score.
So where did the ball end up?.
Michigan center Mark Hughes,
who averaged just 5.4 points per

CHANEL VON HABSBURG-LOTHRINGEN/Daily
Former center Mark Hughes averaged 5.4 points per gare during the 1989 season.

game duringhis career.
Without the referee's call, he
wouldhave takenthe potentialgame-
winning shot. Instead, Hughes, who
is currently the director of West
Coast Scouting with the New York
Knicks, caught the ball and then
looked at the referee under the hoop
who hadblown the play dead.
Since Hughes's defender dropped
into the lane to help on Robinson,
Hughes had a wide-open look from
the right wing.
What would have happened if the
play continued?
"I tell everybody ifthatref doesn't
blow the whistle, that would have
been me making the game win-
ner and I'd have been on the cover

of Sports Illustrated instead of
Rumeal," Hughes said jokingly. "So
he blew it. He stole my thunder."
Rice agrees: "He makes it."
And so does Robinson. "Mark
Hughes probably would have
scored," he admitted.
Even though Hughes never made
the cover of Sports Illustrated, the
fact that he was in the right spot at
the right time was a microcosm of
the team, according to Rice.
"That's the great thing about this
team," Rice said. "We all (knew) our
strengthens and the weaknesses at
that time and Mark Hughes was in
a spot where he was supposed to be,
just Rumeal got fouled, and he went
and did what he had to do."

Struggling unit on pace to be worst of decade

By GJON JUNCAJ Should the Wolverines' current
Daily Sports Writer power-play statistics continue, they
would be the lowest of any Michi-
Film sessions are becoming gan team this decade..
increasingly more frustrating for Berenson, in his 25th season at
Michigan hockey coach Red Beren- the helm in Ann Arbor, has to go
son. back much further for a point of
With a 14.1 percent success rate, reference - and he still has trouble
his power-play unit is ranked 42nd finding one.
in the nation and seventh in the "I can't remember when our
conference. The Wolverines have power play has struggled like
converted just eight of their last 71 this," Berenson said. "We've had
man-advantage opportunities. our issues before, because power
Even when Michigan's power plays get hot and cold. ... That's
play has clicked, its success has all it is. You can have good players
hinged too much on one player, with and have a bad power play."
eight of 21 of its power play tallies Berenson analyzes the power
coming from sophomore forward play in four phases: offensive zone
Louie Caporusso. No other Wolver- faceoffs, breaking out into transi-
ine has scored more than twice on tion, puck movement and creating
the power play. traffic in front of the net. When

evaluating the unit on film, Beren-
son says the Wolverines are lacking
in every area. Michigan has lost too
many draws in the opponent's zone
only to have the other team ice the
puck. When the Wolverines bring
the puck up through the neutral

zone, Berenson has noticed far too
much dump-and-chase action, and
opponents wind up beating Michi-
gan to the loose pucks.
"I can't tell you how many times
Bowling Green and Miami just
See HOCKEY, Page 8A

V F-I se cn a I I F' .4. L
512 . WHIam x(734) 663-3379
LIMITED TIME OFFER
For Our Friends at The U
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION
Lunch Buffet
M-F 11-2pm
"$6*95
$2 OF our Lunch Buffet
WithBever ae Included
fJustresentYourU/of22 M 21.1).
Offer Valid: 1/26/2009 - 2/20/2009


I


0

6A- Thursday, January 22, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I

'sE3

PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300
PRKG SPACES 2 blocks from B-
col us 4Hill and Church. $75/mo.
/34-26014003.
PRKG. SPOT AVAIL. on central cam-
pss. $80/mo. 248-348-8205.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
IlD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVlR all included. (734)741-9300
w.annarborapartments.net
6 Bedroom Apartments
$2400-2800
Sept. 2009
Cop iProperties
734-663-5609
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. wish refin-
issed lardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info/alpostrealtyproperties.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
Apartments Available!

J

Wilson~hire
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNITi
4pscale 5 bedroom
apartments@61 IJ
C&urch! T-es are
new ls 9constructec 5J
bedroom, 2.5 bat1
apartments, wit all
tMc latest aclTreatest
aM1enhtes, Ike a
washer and Jrs.erin
unit.

WilsonWhite
We Have Moved!
Yes, we finally
moved onto
cainpus; you can
now find us next
to Pizza House
at:
Wilson White
Management
Campus Office
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich
48104

*4 BEDROOM APARTMENT*:
A unique and spacious apt. in a beauti-
ful converted house. Hardwood floors,
high ceilings, furnished, dishwasher,
screened porch, large yard. (734) 668-
1100. www.varsitymanagement.coms
*830 SYLVAN 3 bdrm. Near Cent.
Camp. & B-school. Hardwood firs. At-
tached garage. Prkg. Aug. '09. $1695.
Ldry. & Dryer. 248-515-7440.
*AVAIL. FALL '09. 3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the
January Blowout Deals!!!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This absolutely ends on 1/31/2009!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCYI

Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1,.2 & 3Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com

sas artonbrook.com, 734-665-56201

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, January 22, 2009

*MAY - MAY 2 BsDUOM:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
'dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.con
02.04.2009 - START planning now! U
of M Housing Fair in the Michigan
Union ballroom; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Stop by and find your housing
for next year...now! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagemuent.com
I & 2 Bdrm. turn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free Idry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
VA
WilsonWhite
HoUe Ayailabie ail
2009
3 bedrooms
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 /brooms
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
6 Bedrooms
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307S. State $5500

We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www universitytowers-mi.comn
2 BDRM apt. 1004S. Forest #B1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1200/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$500-$600
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 min. walk to
Union. $2399 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back. $3300.
Call 248-214-8708!
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint-
ments available too if you need them!
Wilson White Management
734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.comu
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2

WilsonWhite
h A N A GE E"
401 East'
Madison
ra vd fNew( !) G
edroonw + stud4
1pnrtvlwvtts for FeL
2005 ,corver of
Pocdr. FLoor pl3aFs
43,9S5/OvtOth

6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
*GREAT PACKARD LOCA-
TIONS*: 526 and 917, large bal-
conies/patios, heat, water, parking, fur-
nished, dishwashers, laundry. Huge 2
bedroom apartments great for 3-4 peo-
ple! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
34Bdrm. Apt.
0 S. Forest
$1500 Copi Properties
7-663-5609
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
904 S. FOREST # 2. May 09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
0n Db*
ci
40ied aa6Od
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments..net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes AVe.

4

4

4

ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
Tower Plaza Condominium
Cshcnwu hrs, Oneslockfomc prp.
Call 8rianTorsic
734-663-1530
4 BLOCKS FROM Union. Big hse: 5
1g. bdrms. (5-7 persons) Living/dining
rms. 2 kitch., 2 bath., 2 study, Free
ldry. & parking. $3200 (734) 717-2017.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
*331 CATHERINE*: TWO 3 bdrm
apainments or combine for 6 bdm
house. Contact Varsity Management
for more info. 734-668-1100.

4
4

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
t
t
G'
2
L
L
7
I
'3
3
3
;3

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 82 Tosspnts 35 Camhridgeshire 43 Greet from a
1City nearTV's 63Soncks cathedral distance
Southfork, 64 Actress Tuesday town 44 Corrects
familiarly 36 Distant 45 Diamond unit
5 Some lifts DOWN 37 Out 46 Rodeo loops
10 Spice Girl 1 Hit on the head 38 Crafty 47 Air Force E-5's -
married to 2 Nigerian people 39 Polynesian idol 51 Humorist Mort
Beckham 3 Pro's pocketful 40 Nabokov's title 52 Birthright-for-
14 Cor anglais 4 Lunch spot professor pottage trader
cousin 5 Group of online 41It might be pulled 53 Chew
15 Put the bite on posts down 57 Kind of pal
16 Donald, to his 6 1967-'70 home of 42 "Quadrophenia" 58 Like all but one
nephews many 2-Down band prime number
17 Opinion sampling 7 End in -
18 Mikhail's wife 8 Stratagem ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Actress Polo 9 Diner supply
0 Prequel about a 10 Big name in CHO W RE V U P A S A P
cost-cutting publishing HAR I AL E R O G L U E
familyof 11 Nervous I M I N P I N U P R I T A
undertakers? 12 Showin theaters P O T S A D S I P O N
3 Jazz fan 13 They might be S E L E C T I L S A S M U
25Auentin spliin a spat T E R R A NOON H A T
26 Linguist's 21 Peddle
concerns 22'80s org. that E A R G OOD O T S
7 Pr equel abut nclu dedthe N.J. A C D C AMP WAD S
Alancand Jake Generals C D R K 0 LA L I N
Harper befure 23 Selltnor o R E E R I C A C T E ID
they v in 24Author Tyler DID ROT H CHI RAC
with Charlie? 28 Gallery display K E E L S I J K D O R A
31 McCarthy mate 29 Second largest
32 Orenburg's river Great Lake I N N O G E N I E O D I N
33 Trial 30 Torah container E N Z 0 U S E B Y T E N D
34 Company cars, 34Super Bowl XLIl S E A T M O S E S E D G Y
perhaps runners-up xwordeditor@aol.com 01/22/09

A

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day p
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 p
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk
contact our staff for details * Students may receive
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (nor
business ads only) " All ads must be prepaid unless
have been established * We accept Visa, Masterca
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display ad
of our Account EBecutiveS
1 day 2 days 3 days

rior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost/Found
ter line for each 020 - For Sale
contracts are available- 025 - Parking
a 25% discount when 030 -Automotive
n-organizational, non- 040 -omputers
prior billing privileges
ard, American Express, 05-Turnore
ivertising, please call one 050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
4 days 5 days 080 - Services
21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel

I
I

41 teZealand 14 3
native
42 Prequel abut 17
skit wmiters
hoping to move 2
to imnre
prestigious digs? 23 24
47 Begin'ssuccessor
48 Rouen refusal 27
49 Upsilon follower 31
50 Prequel aboust
the Bradfords' 33
'amily planning
efforts?
54 Rock's Stefani
55 Kalahari refuge C2 4
hG Scrubbed, soto
speak 4
59 IrBeaumont, so
hero o1 King's
'The Dark Half" s4
60 Macduff, vis-A-vis
Fife 59
S61 'When I man
.":Gilbert 8
Sullivan song
lyric ByDonnaS.1
(c)2009 Trib

t 4 S 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
18 19
b 21 2
25 26
28 28 30
32
34 35 36 37 38 s39
13 44 45 46 e
51 52 s3
55 56 5T 5
61
63 84
Levin 01/22/09
aune Media Services, inc.

2 lines cX.0
3lines 12.90
4lines 17,20

19.35

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The lability of
TMD for falure to publsh n aa ri t ny reason, or forpubishing incorrectads in a specified issue
shal be lmited to publshing in a subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrectinsertion. TMD
wil be responsble for classified advertisement errors only if notified by 5i"0 pm on the first day of pubication.
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds:
Advertisers may cancel an ad before pubication deadlne, but no refund wll be given unless the adhasnot yet
been published. Refusal: Al ads are subjectto editing and approval We do not publish advertisements for
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to
accepting advertising.

120
123-
125-
130-
140-
150-
/60-

Announcements
Websites
Music
Roommates
Food & Entertainment
Personal
-Pets

I

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

P

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

BRIDGE SAFETY
From Page 1A
then be relayed to an inspector on
site or in an office nearby.
Victor Li, a professor of civil
and . environmental engineering
also working on the project, has
spent the last 15 years developing a
new type of concrete that changes
shape to support heavy loads.
"The concrete we created is a
special type of concrete material
which looks and feels like normal
concrete until you put a lot of load
on it, and it practically deforms like
metal," Li said. "If you bang it, it
will turn into a curve shape just like
a piece of metal will, and that's not
possible with normal concrete."
In addition to the novel con-
crete, Chemical Engineering Prof.
Nicholas Kotov invented a sensing
skin made out of carbon nanotubes
and polymers.
"Justlikeyouwouldpaintabridge
with a coat of paint, this would be a
carbon nanotube composite that
would be painted onto the surface
of the bridge," Lynch said.
The sensing skin can be
designed to measure erosion and
the behavior of a bridge under an
applied load.
Tim Gordon, head of UMTRI's
engineering research division,
said the state-of-the-art software
will revolutionize the way bridges
are inspected.
"At the moment, people tend
to use inspections to inspect the
bridge without being able to look
at how it's responding to heavy
loads," Gordon said.
The project's organizers believe

that it will not only improve bridge
safety, but will also boost Ann
Arbor's economy, as Monarch
Antenna Inc. and LFL Associates,
two local technology companies
invested in the project.
Monarch Antenna Inc. will pro-
vide the self-structuring antenna
technology necessary for the sen-
sors to communicate with each
other wirelessly.
Tayfun Ozdemir, chief technol-
ogy officer of Monarch Antenna,
said the opportunity to participate
in the project presented itself, and
his company went for it.
"This project folds under the
general field of wireless sensors,
and it is a field that, as a company,
we identify as a strong market
to go after," Ozdemir said. "It's a
really stimulating project for the
local economy - not just for the
University community."
The Michigan Department
of Transportation is giving the
research team two bridges in
Michigan to test the sensors on.
"The Department of Civil
and Environmental Engineer-
ing is very excited about this new
research award," Nancy Love, pro-
fessor and chair of civil and envi-
ronmental engineering, said in an
e-mail interview. "The project is
very interdisciplinary, and it high-
lights the innovative contributions
that the University of Michigan
is making in infrastructure sys-
tems, which is an area of critical
research need."
Gordon, the head of UMTRI,
said, "If it works out like we
think, it could definitely lead to
something that could be deployed
nationally."

GREEK HOUSES
From Page 1A
"A number of chapters don't own
their own houses and they're living
in houses owned by other chapters.
At the moment, some fraternities
are moving because their leases are
running out."
Toll said that a common practice
in the Greek community is when
chapters leave the University, if
they own a house, they keep the
house as an investment, and rent it
to other chapters. This is the case
with the chapters that left campus
but are now returning to the Uni-
versity, like Sigma Chi.
"They kept ownership of the
houses so that when they come
back to campus, they have a house,"
Toll said.
To further complicate matters,
the city also makes it difficult for
large groups to acquire facilities
that are bigenough.
"The city of Ann Arbor has hous-
ing ordinances on group housing in
which the houses have to request
for an exemption," Toll said. "It is
not easy to qualify for a facility or

house that you want."
Chris Haughee, the assistant
director of the University's Office
of Greek Life, said the city's ordi-
nance on group housing requires
fraternities and sororities seeking
group housing to apply for a special
exemption to the city's zoning laws.
This process becomes more com-
plicated ifa house doesn't make use
of the special housing ordinance for
a period of two years. If this hap-
pens, the house must then re-apply
to the zoning board for the special
exemption, which is very difficult,
Haughee said.
"You have to be in the right zon-
ing classification with the special
exemption use and there are a spe-
cific number of houses," Haughee
said. "You have to havea dual battle
to get it properly zoned."
Because of the complexity of
this process, Haughee said that if a
chapter is seeking housing, it is eas-
iest for them to rent a house from
another chapter, especially if the
house has already received the spe-
cial exemption use from the city.
"Clearly if you're a fraternity
and you don't have housing, if
that house is available, frankly we

would encourage it when they lease
to other fraternities and sororities
on campus, so we keep it property
zoned and available to the commu-
nity," Haughee said.
Despite this complication, sev-
eral chapters, including Alpha
Epsilon Pi, which was able to find a
house that already had the special
exemption use for group housing,
have managed to find permanent
housing that suits the chapter's
long-term needs. Some have even
turned to finding properties that
are outside of the houses already
owned by Greek chapters.
For the past four years, AEPi
was living in a house on the corner
of Church Street and Hill Street,
owned by Alpha Epsilon Phi, a
sorority that's returning to campus
in the fall.
AdamLondon,presidentofAEPi,
said that faced with the prospect of
being without a home, AEPi decid-
ed to buy a permanent house after
getting funding from its national
organization.
"We currently have permanent
housing in a large house - formerly
a professional fraternity - on Ged-
des (Avenue)," London said. "We

Thursday, January 22, 2009 - 7A
are now fortunate enough to be one
of the only houses on campus who
actually own our house."
London said that AEPi, which
moved into its permanent resi-
dence on 1912 Geddes Ave. at the
end of last semester, is an example
of a fraternity that had a successful
conclusion to its search for housing,
despite the challenge of being the
largest chapter on campus.
"Ann Arbor is a unique college
towninthatthere isnotmuchroom,
if any, to build new, large houses
near campus," London said. "I can
say, however, that the outlook for
fraternities, especially in regard to
securing housing solutions is noth-
ing but optimistic."
While this shuffling of houses
within the Greek community often
creates stress for chapters with
expiring leases, Toll said that the
seven to eight houses owned by
other chapters or different orga-
nizations, knew exactly what they
were getting into when they rented
their houses.
"There are some houses that rent
and lease from other organizations. It
is like any rent agreement," Toll said.
"The houses had advance notice."


PRO-LIFE
From Page 1A
think the pro-life movement is as
big as it is," he said. "Once you see
all the people that are at the march,
it's really overwhelming to think
there are so many people holding a
pro-life position. It's eye opening."
Bennett said seeing so many sup-
porters helps her realize she's not

alone in her beliefs.
"The most amazing part of it
is the amount of youth that are
there," she said. "There is such a
strong presence, and it speaks a
lot to me. It shows that you're not
alone and that's hard to remember
sometimes."
The demonstrators are hopingto
send a message to President Barack
Obama, on his second day in the
White House.

Stangebye said the march could
serve as a sign to the govern-
ment and new President about the,
changes people want to see.
"I think that it can have a big
impact on the big leaders too, and
it will at least pressure them to
re-think the issue, if not inspire
them," he said. "Also, it would
show them the way we, as Ameri-
cans, feel about current abortion
legislation."

But Kym Lovell, chair of the
University's chaptet of Students for
Choice, said she sees the timing of
the march - right on the heels of
Obama's inauguration - as a sign
of disrespect.
"I am saddened that during
this monumental week in history,
people are spending their time
and energy spreading messages of
intolerance and the suppression of
rights and freedoms," she said.

the michigan daily
SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hill and AVAIL. I
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003. floor, full
$1150/mon
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER- Call (734)
INES! Your attention please!

MN
b
th.
662

AVAIL. 9/1/0
Campus Management, Inc. invites you sion. Eff, 1 b
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best security buzzt
local website for the best selection of aate storage
apartments and houses. We specialize Co. 734-368-0
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller GREAT LO
available too! All are attractively CCRB 5 bdri
priced, most include parking, many are screened fron
furnished and some include utilities. Room, d/w
The rush is on and we are actively lot behind hoi
showing housing to hundreds of people used as double
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our APARTM
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-411.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI- 3 Bedrooms
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. 727 Packard (
Call today 741-9657 915 Oakland
AVAILABLE FALL. $2295
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood 1015 Packard
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2 $1355
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405. 205 N. Divis
$1995
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm. 4 Bedrooms
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts. 1203 Oakland
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665- 929 Church $3
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com 5ackard
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the 5 Bedrooms
most detailed listings in town! RENT
ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE 205 N. Divisis
HOUSES OR APARTMENTS AND 916 Sybil (Bra
WE'LL KNOCK $500 OFF THE 1021 E. Univ
FIRST MONTH'S RENT WHEN Peppers) $249
YOU MENTION THIS AD. Things 1307 S. State
are moving quickly so call 663-4101
now to schedule a personal showing! 6 Bedrooms
Houses and Large Apartments:
515 Catherine - 6 BR / 2 Studies / 2 401 E. Madist
BA / $3495 1014 Vaughn
203 N. Ingalls -3 BR 13 BA / $2595 $3695
516 S. Fourth Ave. - 5 BR / all utils. 1814 Geddes (
incl. / $2525
809 Lawrence #1 - 4 BR / 2.5 BA / 8 Bedrooms
$2245
1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5 325 E. Jeffer
BA / $3295 $4295
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR /
$2270 Many Studio
912 E. Ann St. - 4 BR / RENTED apartments
1349 Geddes -5 BR / RENTED White Manage
811 Catherine -6 BR / RENTED www.wilsonwl
535 S. Fifth Ave. - 4 BR / RENTED campus@wils
1331 Geddes -6 BR / RENTED
934 Greenwood #2-4 BR / RENTED FALL 2009.
408 E. Jefferson #1 -6 BR / RENTED bdrm. opts. p
511 Lawrence -6 BR / RENTED umc. on site pt
517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED umeampusho
1031 Michigan - 4 BR / RENTED GREAT 2 B
206 N. Thayer - 4 BR / RENTED tion. Heat/wa
1342 N. University Ct. - 3 BR / 734-665-8825
RENTED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR / APARTME
RENTED Efficiencit
Furnished,
CAMPUS PROPERTIES FREE pa
AVAILABLE MAY 2009 Call today fr

tED. 2 bdrm., hardwood
asement, 2 car garage,
Heat and water included.
-9446.
09 WILLIAM & Divi-
drm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
er. Laundry facility & sep-
lockers. Gallatin Realty
256.
CATION, 2 doors east of
im., 2 bath. house has
nt porch, giant Living
& microwave. Parking in
rse. 2 bdrms. could be
e! Call Pat 734-663-4101.
tENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009
Furnished) $1890
(Grand Victorian Home)
(Near State and Packard)
ion (Cathedral Ceilings)
$2825
3195
Newly Remodeled)
on (Historic Home) $3125
and New House) $3295
ersity (Across From Sgt.
5
$2595
on (Brand New!) $3995
n (Plenty of Parking)
Close to Diag) $3795
son (Victorian Mansion)
o, 1, and 2 bedrooms
available too! Wilson
ement 734-995-920
'hitemanagement:com
:onwhitemanagement.
PEPPERS Properties. 3
East U. frn. heat/water
rkg. 810-231-0229.
using.com
DRM apt in prime loca-
ater included. $999/mo.
. www.campusrealty.com
ENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
as, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
heat & water included,
arking and Ethernet!
or an appointment to see!
e Student Housing
000 primesh.com
ies varies by location
R RENT @ 904 Packard.
Free prkg. No pets. Free
o.+util. 248-895-4818.
RM. bi-level apt. avail. in
n I & 1/2 baths. Heat and
1999/ mo. 734-665-8825.
realty.com
VN 4 BDRM house- fully
modern kitchen, covered
nuch more. 741-9300.
arborapartments. net
INISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
e, Near UM bus stop,
r Fall 2009, Heat & water
A/C, prkg., dry.,
No smkg./no pets.
or 734-678-7250.
cast.net
ASES AVAILABLE
IRST MONTHS RENT!
0 on select 2 bedrooms
sitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
SES STUDIO-3 bdrms
al or north campus.
w.annarborapartments.net

MUST SEE! BI-level duplex just one
block to Rackham. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea-
tures dishwasher, carpet, fireplace and
a separate Dining Room.
Parking included.
Call Pat 734-663-4101.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. STATE-I LEFT
520Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1320 S. University-1 LEFT
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm.
700+ sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave.
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
he wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
TEACHING ASSISTANTS
UM Northwood Child Development
Center is seeking individuals to assist
in our preschool classes. Experience
working with young children pre-
ferred. Must be available Wednesdays
11 - 6:00 pm with possibility of addi-
tional hours. Please call 764-4557 for
more information or email resume and
availability to hermansl@umich.edu
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED to re-
design website for Ann Arbor based
company. Flexible hrs./work from
home. Pay hourly or by the job. Please
call Jon (734) 677-5562.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626 - 6304
www theislandhouse.com
considered
Science and math. .
teachers are in demand nationwide
Thousands of dollars in tuition
scholarships are available to becomea
science or math teacher. Learn how you
may qualify. Science or math degree
preferred, with 2.7 G.P.A.
Information Session
Thesday, Jan 27th - 7 p.m.
Malletts Creek Library
3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway,
Ann Arbor, Ml 48108
To R.S.V.P.orformoreinformation,
call 419-5302060
www.eachut3.utoledo.edu
teachut3@utoledo.edu
J 9orT nou E g wcneN
No s -h-im o eoe eahr

Child C _ announCemenAts
095 j2
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15 HAVE YOU CONSIDERED teach-
yr. old son needed, 10 mm. from cam- tng? Science and math teachers are in
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev- demand nationwide. Thousands of dol-
eral meals/wk., grocery shopping. Own lars in tuition scholarships are available
reliable transportation. Call 761-8489. to become a science or math teacher.
Learn how you may qualify. Science or
CHILDCARE / DRIVER needed M, math degree preferred, with 2.7 G.P.A.
W,F 2:45pm-6pm. Dan 649-7009. Information Session-Tuesday, Jan 27th
7pm - Malletts Creek Library
P ME IALIAN tutor needed 3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway
for 7-year-old child. E-mail Ann Arbor, MI 481191
mamarc@comcast.net To RSVP or more info 419-530-2060
SEEKING BABYSITTER FOR 2- www.teachut3.utoledo.edu
year-old. Hours will vary - mainly teachut@utoledo.edu
evenings. Must have own transporta- Now is the time to become ateacher.
tion and references. Call 248-752-6889. WOMEN'S CHAMBER CHORUS
. seeking new members, all ages. Mon,
.. - -10-10 a a ll 34-I 761-5471.

3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3995
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
available at 1115 Willard. Free prkg.
$3299/mo. Campus Realty
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com

Prime
761-8
*Amenit:
HOUSE FO1
5 or 6 people.
ldry. $2650/im
HUGE 3 BDT
prime locatiot
water incl. $1
www.campusr
KERRYTOM
furnished, lg
porch &n
LARGE FUR
1111 S. Stat
Avail. Now or
incl. Balc.,
$1450-$1750,1
734-996-3539
ehtseng@com
MAY LE
$500 OFF Ft
Up to $50
univer
MAY LEAS
avail on centrE
741-9300 wwv

For Friday, Jan. 23, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is a wonderful day to make long-
range plans about your life's direction in
general. You're thinking clearly, but
more important, you're full of faith and
optimism for your future.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Make long-range travel plans today.
Similarly, some of you will want to
make long-range plans about schooling
and education. Important people are
impressed with you today!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
You couldn't pick a better day to sit
down with others and discuss how to
share jointly held property. Your ideal-
ism is aroused. It's a great day to travel
and learn new things.
CANCER.
(June 21to July 22)
Sensible discussions with partners and
close friends will be productive today,
especially about the division of labor or
how to share our day-to-day habits.
Others will be generous to you.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You're in the mood to work hard! You
get a lot done today because you're pay-
ing attention to detail plus you're willing
to endure long hours of steady effort.
Bravo!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Those of you involved in sports will
do a fantastic workout today. You're
relentless and determined. Matters
related to your job look very encourag-
ing.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Whatever repairs or changes you
introduce today will be long-lasting and

practical. You're in the mood to party as
well. (Romance is promising.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Discussions with others will be pro-
ductive today because you're taking a
long-range view of things. Entertain at
home. This is uagood day for real estate.
SAGITTARIUS .
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You're willing to work long, hard
hours to earn your money today. You
won't mind at all because you feel
upbeat, enthusiastic and optimistic.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
It's an excellent day for any kind of
exercise or physical workout. Whatever
deals you do with others today will go
well You're in a serious frame of mind
but hopeful about your finances.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You feel like a winner today! Some of
you are working long, hard hours behind
the scenes or by yourself. You know that
your payoff is coming.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You're not a quitter today. Working
with others will be a successful venture.
Your ability to endure and persist will
encourage others as well.
YOU BORN TODAY You're highly
individualistic, and you have your own
style. You make a strong impression on
others. Others view you as having moral
strength and courage. Many of you have
mathematical, scientific talents. You feel
it's important to be true to yourself. Get
ready for a fabulous year ahead. It could
be one of the most powerful years of
your life!
Birthdate of: Princess Caroline of
Monaco; Gail O'Grady, actress; Brendan
Shanahan, hockey player.

READER
KNOWS
BEST.
Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest


8A - Thursday, January 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'!..,..MIDSEASON AWARDS,

I

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Writer
This season has been a tale of two
roads for the Michigan women's
basketball team.
In coach Kevin Borseth's second
season at the helm, the Wolver-
ines have managed a 6-2 record at
Crisler arena, downing perennial
powerhouses Vanderbilt and Notre
Dame along the way. We'll call this
the "Yellow Brick Road."
But on the road, away from com-
fortable Ann Arbor - well, that's a
different story. Michigan is a dismal .
1-7. The team has lost easy matchups
it needed to win to build a worthy
NCAA Tournament resume. This is
more like "The Road To Perdition."
So, where does the team stand at
midseason? At a crossroads, that's
for sure. Here's how the Wolverines
did in the first half:
THE "FOLLOWTHE YELLOW '
BRICK ROAD"AWARD
(best team performance)
This is an easy one - Michigan's
63-59 overtime win over then-No. 8
Notre Dame. Last season, the Lady

Irish embarrassed the Wolverines
by 30 in South Bend. In this redemp-
tion game, Michigan played its most
well-rounded game of the year, shut-
ting down the Irish offense and hit-
ting clutch shots on the other end. A
marquee win like this could get the
attention of the NCAA Tournament
selection committee.
"THE ROAD TO PERDITION"
AWARD
(worst team performance)
A 58-49 loss to Akron - ouch,
that one hurts. The Wolverines' loss
to the Zips sent the squad on a road-
game tailspin that hasn't ended yet.
Michigan shot a season-low 29 per-
cent and had 22 turnovers. What's
with the Mid-American Conference
owning Michigan this year, any-
way?
THE HOUDINI AWARD
(most noticeable disappearance)
Junior Krista Phillips runs away
with this award. With opposing
defenses paying extra attention to
the six-foot-six-inch center, her pro-
duction has vanished this season.
After a sophomore campaign that

saw her average 10 points and six
rebounds, Phillips been replaced on
the court by senior Stephany Skrba.
Four points a game isn't going to cut
it from someone who was All-Big
Ten Honorable Mention last year.
OVERACHIEVER AWARD
Congrats, sophomore Veronica
Hicks. Since the beginning of the
season, the guard has inched her way
into the lineup and solidified the open
spot left by Janelle Cooper after she
graduated lastyear. Hicks's offensive
game - she's reached double-figure
points in four of the last five games
- is finally startingto catch up with
her stellar defense.
MVP
Yes, senior Jessica Minnfield has
shot just 23 percent from 3-point
range, but she's not necessarily the
Most Valuable Player for her statis-
tical contributions. But she is, hands
down, the Wolverines' floorgeneral.
And when she's on the bench, the
team lacks the poise and aggressive-
ness that are vital to a team's suc-
cess. Michigan's fate rests squarely
on Minnfield's back.

4

.4

Senior Melinda Queen has averaged
seven points a game sofar this year.

Senior Jessica Minnfield has earned the Daily's midseason MVP award.

'M' to fight shooting woes and Hoosiers tonight

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
A basketball rim is one of the
great shape-shifters in sports.
Some nights, the rim looks like
the Pacific Ocean. On others, it
looks like a thimble.
In the Michigan women's bas-
ketball team's last three games, it
has taken the shape of the latter.
The Wolverines are in a major
shooting slump, especially from the
3-point line. They are shooting a
combined 24 percent from beyond
the arc during their three-game
losing streak.
"Well, it sure would help to put
the ball in the basket," Michigan
coach Kevin Borseth said of his
team's offensive woes. "That should
make a difference."
Michigan's shooting struggles
are nothingnew, but they're getting
worse. For the season, the Wolver-
ines are shooting just 37 percent
from the field and 28 percent from

behind the arc.
The numbers aren't great, but
they were enough for Michigan
to pull out some
tough victories Indiana at
over good oppo-
nents, includ- Michigan
ing two top-25 Matchup:
teams, Vanderbilt Indiana 13-3;
and Notre Dame. Michigan 9-9
The Wolverines When: Tonight
usually make up 7 p.m.
for poor shoot- Where:
ing with stellar Crisler Arena
defense, but even
that hasn't helped WTRadio:
as of late. KA
Recently, Mich- Live Blog:
igan shot 6-of- http://thegame.
35 on 3-pointers blogsmichigan
against Michigan
State. The Wol-
verines shot 55 percent from three-
point range in the first half against
Minnesota, and then made just two
3-pointers the rest of the game.
"Basketball is a game of runs,"

senior forward Carly Benson said.
"And right now, we're not on one."
But she also said no matter what
happens, this is not a team that will
get down on itself.
"Our team does a very good job
of picking each other up," she said.
"We're very complimentary of each
other. That will help us get out of
this slump."
At 9-9, Michigan is on the brink
of mediocrity after the season's
promising start to the season (8-5).
And it doesn't get any easier as
Big Ten giant Indiana comes to
Crisler Arena tonight. The Hoo-
siers boast a potent and well-bal-
anced offense, with all five starters
averaging double figures.
"I think they're the best offensive
team in the conference," Borseth
said. "They have the two best post
players offensively and they have a
WNBA point guard."
Senior forwards Amber Jackson
and Whitney Thomas both average
14 points per game.

As for the "WNBA point guard"
Borseth talked about, that would
be Jamie Braun. The praise is
well-warranted - Braun aver-
ages 12 points, five assists and five
rebounds per game. She dropped 19
against Iowa on Jan. 4.
Michigan always wants to get
the ball in the paint and it's not
going to get any easier against the
Hoosiers.
"People ask,'What's more impor-
tant, offense or defense?"' Borseth
said. "You need to be equally
good at both. Same thing goes for
3-pointers and shots around the
scoring zone. If you can't do both,
you're not going to be good at either
one."
Accordingto Borseth, the way to
win is to get open shots in the paint.
And the only way to get open shots
in the paint is to hit 3-pointers,
which the Wolverines haven't been
able to do recently.
They had better hope they can
tonight.

HOCKEY
From page 5A
dumped it out," Berenson said.
"We had no retrieval. We had no
real outworking or outnumbering
the other team.... We work on this
in practice, but I can tell you, it's
been a real challenge for our play-
ers and our coaches."
After lastFriday's shutout loss to
Bowling Green, Berenson thought
the Wolverines got "too cute" with
the puck at times. Desperate for
great scoring chances, Michigan
tried zipping passesthrough heavy
traffic, which caused loose pucks
and turnovers.
The coaching staff is also-
searching for a consistent physical
presence who cansit in front of the
opposingteam'snet, blockcthe goal-
tender's vision and score goals off
deflections and rebounds. Senior
Travis Turnbull,junior Brian Leb-
ler and freshman David Wohlberg
have all tried wreaking havoc
around the crease, but Berenson
said Michigan's net-screening has
found "limited success." Because
power play success is streaky by

nature, there's no exact science to
bringing a struggling unit out of a
funk. Itnthe past,the coaching staff
has shown the players highlight
films of their power-play goals up
to that point in a season. Showing
the tapes is intended to have the
players learn from recent success
and maintain confidence.
The players don't believe the
cold streak has 'rattled them, but
they sometimes joke about escap-
ing reality any way they can.
"For power plays, I don't know
if it takes your confidence down
throughout the game," sopho-
more forward Aaron Palushaj said.
"When .we get on a power play,
some ofthe guys are like, 'Shit, let's
playfive-on-five.'"
As quick as he is to illustrate
Michigan's shortcomings on the
man advantage, Berenson has also
put it in perspective.
"It's not a success rate," Beren-
son said. "It's a failure rate. 75 per-
cent of the time, the best power
play in the world fails. So you've
got to stay patient. You've got to
stay positive and you've got to stay
focused."



NIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

WHAT DO
RHODES/MARSHALL/MITCHELL
SCHOLARS
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
Well, this guy became
president.

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

A TAsty
3325 Washlenaw Ave
New McDonald's Now Open
Celebrate the opening of our newest restaurant. Therell be fun,
games, and prizes for everyone. Come in and see our new look.
WasiteiawAv
3325 mnms as E enem
'$liAJ~L M~~c~onads o Oe
Valid at abase location only. Not valid o r ce srctin with asp ether ofter'
ga'scat, coupondo r como maero reme sa iems . e Limitao me er pno
persos persit, Plus tax itoapplicablo. Price st required purmhase posted
9snP - L------------------------------------------1

4

4

I

0

'000

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Koessler Room, Michigan League
Thursday, January 29, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons Center Room
Thursday, February 5, 2009 . 5:00-6:00pm
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union

40

To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

I


t 3 -id ;W


The Michigan Daily f

michigandaily.com I Thursday, January 22, 2009

weekend
essentials
Jan 22. to Jan. 25
MUSIC
Animal Collective's
latest release is equal
parts Pet Sounds,
trance, ambient, tribal
and indie. Blissful and
effervescent, Mer-
riweather Post Pavilion
is the group's most
magnetic disc to date.
Believe the hype,
because it's all true;
this is the first must-
own album of the year.
ON STAGE
"(Re)creating Gil-
gamesh" is the product
of a diverse, eclectic
team of artists re-imag-
ining the ancient epic
poem of Gilgamesh.
The performance uses
both music and visual
art in astonishingly
inventive ways, combin-
ing improvisation and
a wealth of media to
create a fresh vision of
a mythical mainstay.
Performances are Fri-
day and Saturday at 7
p.m. and 9 p.m. at the
Biomedical Science
Research Building. $30

een a sticker or a shirt asking you
to "support local music," you might recognize the-
sense of pride found in small musical circles. You '
might nod or offer a smile and go about your way, or
you might just roll your eyes and switch to the next
song on your iPod.prs
nut it's hard not to at least notice the strong pres-
ence of local music in Ann Arbor. It's impossible to
walk to class and not seea poster taped to the side of a
building, rounder or coffee shop bulletin board-adver-
tising alocal concert. Though the occasional marquee
act may stop by Hill Auditorium or Iht erformances
ater, Ann Arbor natives dominate mos pe
around town. of Ann
Everyone starts somewhere, and many of nn
Arbor's local musicians got their start at the Universi-
ty of Michigan. High school friendships, music school
tpojects nd en JDate profiles can lay the fouda-
tion for lasting musical collaborations that extend far
beyond the Diag. Rescheduled midterms, cut classes
and weekends spent invans are a common occurrence.
Practice spacescanarange fom ooinArbor houses.ic
school to cramped basements o Ann

Sometimes, the bands don't have any room to
practice.
"When you're playing enough shows strung togeth-
er, they become your practice," explained My Da
Disco'sTylerDuncan one of theband's twokeyboard
ists.
Currently on tour in Colorado and gradually snak-
ing its way back to Ann Arbor with stops in Kansas
and IowaMy Dear Disco is merely one of the many
popular local bands for University students. The band,
currently made u ofsevengrautso h nvr
sity's Schoolafeoushasgone throughseveral lineup
changes over the years.
"The band was first called Toolbox," Duncan
recalled. "But our first gig as My Dear Disco was at
.the Blind Pig."
Ah, the Blind Pig. Planted snugly above the 8 Ball
Saloon on the corner of Washington and First Avenue,
the Pig is a relatively modest venue,but its importance
to the local music of Ann Arbor runs deep. Whether
it's housing a familiar crowd of locals and students
stoppiongbyto see their favorite Ann Arbor act or just
s g See ANN ARBOR BANDS, Page 4B

MOVIES
Have you ever seen
the movie "Airplane!,"
Joey? Have you ever
seen a grown man
naked? The State The-
ater will be hosting a
midnight screening
of one of the funni-
est movies of all time
this Saturday, and we
promise you'll laugh
yourself silly even if
you're not fluent in Jive.
CONCERT
Tonight, The Killers are
coming to town. Well,
actually they'll be play-
ing at the EMU Convo-
cation Center starting
at 7:30 p.m., but close
enough. Frontman
Brandon Flowers and
company will most like-
ly be showcasing songs
from their recently
released album Day
& Age and hopefully
a few older favorites.
While sold out, there
are still multiple web-
sites offering tickets for
a wide range of prices.


2B - Thursday, January 22, 2009
C NbAR
The Daily Arts guide to
upcoming events in Ann Arbor
and the surrounding area.
Today 1.22.09
Presenting the Past: Upoming
Exhibitions in the New Kelsey
Museum
6 p.m.
At the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Free
MCSP Film Series Presents:
"Lost Boys of Sudan" with
Guest Speaker Jacob Atem
6:30 p.m.
Downtown Ann Arbor District Library
Free
Tomorrow 1.23.08
Charles C. Steidel: "Witness-
ing the Formation of Galaxies"
7:30 p.m.
At the Chemistry Building, Room 1800
Free
The Macpodz
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$t5
Saturday 1.24.08
Ford Honors Program: Honor-
ing the Royal Shakespeare
Company, Michael Boyd and
Ralph Williams
6 p.m.
At Rackham
$20 for students
Alasdair Fraser & Natalie
Haas
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$20
Sunday 1.25.08
World Tour: Sharing Culture
and Traditions
6 p.m.
At Michigan Union Ballroom
Free
Pleasensend all press releases
and event information to
arts@michigandaily.com.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

High five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five
answers to a curious question.
Bruce Conforthi
Letuorer, Program in Amtricatn Cultrc IDepartmcnt
What are your favorite blues songs?
Robert Johnson, "Crossroad Blues" - A delta blues masterpiece and the
perfect match of intensity between hard pushed vocals, heavily strained guitar
and desperate lyrics.
Muddy Waters, "I Can't be Satisfied" - Muddy's breakout disc that sold
out in one day and really marked the beginning of the Chicago blues soundt it
still holds up today assa classic.
B.B. King, "How.Blue Can You Get?" - His vocals from his prime in his
epic 1964 live performance at the Regal Theater in Chicago leave listeners in
awe; he works the crowd into such a frenzy that it almost explodes.
"Blind" Willie Johnson, "It's Nobody's Fault but Mine" - A marvel of
facile bottleneck slide guitar-playing that straddles that never-never land of the
spiritual and secular.
John Mayall and the Bluesbreakers, "Have You Heard?" - Reveals Eric
Clapton still hungry and playing, as Muddy Waters used to describe it, "behind
the note" in a solo fraught with great musical tension.
SIN G LE R EVIE W .
GET OLDER
DAN DEACON
After an in-your-face debut that giddily pushed the limits of campy funhouse
electronics, Dan Deacon has pushed too hard. "Get Older" starts off with all the
promising symptoms of an Atari-on-acid head trip: AOL dial-up tones, a tonm-
battering drumbeat and ADD xylophone buffeting, all synced together in perfet
rhythmic concord. But the head trip soon rots to ab hedache as the same overzeal-
ous samples loop incessantly for six migraine-inducing minutes without any sense
of attack or release. Of Deacon's going to continue building his career upon jokey
electronica, he'd better come up with material that's actually funny. Because his
isn't.

I
I

ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK

I

ICE BREAKER TIME4CAT
Your Viking companions are stuck The object of the g
inside the ice, and you have to cut them unique: Dodge pedestr
free. It's up to you to figure out how to use lecting food. What sets
30 cuts or fewer to get your frozen friends is that the pedestriansc
back into your boat. Prepare to encoun- you move (part of yo
ter fuzzy monsters, tricky levers, obese powers), allowing yout
women in lederhosen and much more. intricate dodges. The g
"Ice Breaker" is worthwhile, with chai- listically cool; it someho
lenging puzzles and cute graphics. tic and edgy.

ame is nothing
ians while col-
this game apart
only move when
ur time-control
to pull off some
ame is also sty-
ow feels futuris-
ne

I

Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/ay8x7m

Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/9jh7m



4

4

Congratulations to six U-M doctoral
candidates recently accepted into the
Graham Graduate Fellowship Program.
As part of this honor, each 2009 Graham
Fellow will receive $50,000 over two
years to support their interdisciplinary
research related to sustainability.
Left to right: Kathleen;
Giridhar; Robert; Rebecca;
& Doug (Ethan not shown)

Kathleen Bush, School of Public Health: "Harmful
Algal Blooms from a Toxicological, Ecological, and Human
Health Perspective and Integrating New Techniques"
Rebecca Henn, School of Natural Resources
and Environment: "Constructing Green: Leveraging
Sustainability in the Built Environment"
Doug Jackson, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology:
"High-Biodiversity Agriculture for the Future: Using the
Sciences of Ecology and Complexity to Understand Natural
Pest Control in Agro-Ecosystems"

Robert Levine, College of Engineering:
"Novel Thermo-Chemical Processing of Microalgae to
Concomitantly treat wastewater and Produce Bio fuels"
Ethan Schoolman, Department of Sociology:
"Fencing Themselves In: Sustainable Growth and the
Future of the City"
Giridhar Upadhyaya, College of Engineering:
"Biologically Mediated, Simultaneous Removal of Nitrate
and Arsenic from Drinking Water Sources"
GRAHAM ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINAILITY INSTITUTE

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 22, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomThursday, January 22, 2009 - 38

Warming up
with literature

Nick Tobier, an assistant professor in the School of Art & Design, shows off several performance art projects at the lecture "Interruptions for Everyday Life."
Rea Iity, Interrute

I'11 be the first to admit I don't
read as much as I would like,
or even as much as I used
to. I recently had this sobering
conversa-
tion with a
friend, the
same friend _
with whom I
once created
a Facebook
group about
not "looking nfBELY
like philis- CHOU
tines": "I used
to read philosophy texts in eighth
grade, and actually enjoyed
them - and now I barely read for
class." "I used to think I liked the
classics - and now I spend most
of my time reading gossip blogs."
"Really?""... I just really like
Gofugyourself."
But January always convinces
me, at least for the month, that
things could be different. Surely
many of you have had the experi-
ence of going to Shaman Drum
during syllabus week, looking at
the full-price, brand-new text-
books and silently screaming at
the damage they will do to your
checking account - knowing that
after you returned last semester's
books for only three or four bucks
a pop is no conolation. If you're
like me, you think about buying
used books online instead, then
walk downstairs from the text-
book shop and funnel the calcu-
lated savings toward shiny new
novels and essay collections to
read for pleasure. There's an eco-
nomic term for consumers who
spend money knowing they will
receive a big financial windfall,
those who spend money before
they actually get that raise or pay-
check ... or re-sold book money.
My English thesis-addled brain
can't think of it at the moment,
but oh, does it apply to me.
Furthermore, who wants to go
outside into sub-zero temperatures
and AnnArbor's arbitrarilyplowed
streets? I don't. (I would hate
to think that my more frequent
declining of suggested nights out
during winter means I'm destined
to be alone for the rest of my life.
Whatif my future life partner is
waiting to be found at Charley's?)
To keep up the morale and fuzzy
feeling that comes with socializing,
subtract the wait outside on South
U. in the cold and make some use
of your brain, I've come up with
some things to do until the thaw
that blend the literary and social
spheres.
Idea No. 1: Pair good books
with good drinks (and good food).
"Beijing Coma" doesn't really
make me want to drink cheap
rice spirits, but I do find myself
dreaming of Chinese food as

protagonist Dai Wei relives his
pre-coma memories. Curl up on
the couch with the book and some
decent takeout - if you don't tell
me where the food's from, I won't
judge. Or drink wine as the char-
acters in the first part of Roberto
Bolano's "2666" travel through
Europe and to Mexico in pursuit
of a reclusive writer, wining and
dining on the way. Then there's
always Kingsley Amis's "Everyday
Drinking," which has experienced
a recent surge in popularity, re-
printed with his "On Drink" and
"How's Your Glass?" Mix a pitcher
of gin and tonic (for you and a
friend or, if you really are Kings-
ley's kind of drink-man or woman,
for you and yourself), read his
non-fiction and discuss.
Idea No. 2: Ernest Heming-
way get-together/drinking game.
Gather friends and copies of Papa's
heaviest drinking short stories
and novels. Anythingset in Spain
is a goodbet. Drink every time
the characters drink. Drink every
time a character is introduced
Booze, books
and sex buddies.
who doesn't appear to be much
more than a gender stereotype.
Drink every time an animal gets
shot. Two drinks if it's because the
animal has been taken down by
helicopter. Kidding.
Idea No. 3: Test the "January is
mating season" theory. Another
friend theorizes that humans,
especially college-age.humans,
just want to cuddle up with each
other during colder months, and
even more so in the first few
weeks after the holiday break.
Hibernation with a buddy. An
attempt to conserve heat between
bodies. Something like that. With
your partner, climb into bed with
copies of novels listed for the Lit-
erary Review's Bad Sex in Fiction
award - or something more high-
brow, like "Ulysses." Read "sexy"
passages out loud and test the fine
line between mild disgust/confu-
sion and arousal. Giggle. Make
out. Repeat.
Idea No. 4: Exchange books
with your housemates/neighbors/
friends. This one is for the cheap-
skates and true lonely hearts.
Swapping books is good way to
get to know people better - and
it's completely free. That is, until
you spill that pitcher of gin and
tonic on "A Farewell to Arms."
Chou wants to make the perfect
gin and tonic. Send her recipes
at kimberch@umich.edu.

P
T(
lif

erformer Nick
bier dhallenges
e's expectations
By KATIE CAREY
DailyArts Writer

Imagine the first day of fresh-
man year. More specifically, imag-
ine your first time driving in to Ann
Arbor. Remember that giant bill-
board that says, "Welcome to the
University of Michigan"? Probably
not, because there isn't one. What
the University does have as the
distinguishing landmark between
greater Ann Arbor and campus is
a big empty parking lot that reads:
"Red lot. Permit only."
Now re-imagine that first day of
freshman year. Imagine that the
Michigan MarchingBand practiced
in that empty parking lot instead of
Elbel Field. Imagine arriving on
campus for the first time, nervous
about a new roommate and college
classes, your car packed with dorm
accessories, when all of a sudden
you hear a distant "Hail to the Vic-
tors" as a welcome to the visitors.
This is one of the visions of Nick
Tobier, assistant professor in the
School of Art & Design, who gave
a lecture called "Interruptions for
Everyday Life" last Thursday at
the Penny Stamps Distinguished
Visitors Series. Tobier played a
short video of what this vision
might look like. Marching down
State Street waving a baton in
white uniforms and feathered hats,
Tobier gave the audience a glimpse
into the whimsical and awakening
power of the disruption of every-
day life. As car horns blared at the
line of marching musicians, laugh-
ter filled the crowded Michigan
Theater auditorium.
Tobier's venture into perfor-
mance art began when he saw an
elephant in the streets of New York
while walking home from his job at
afishmarket (a jobhe said explained
his social life at the time). It's not a
typical answer about artistic inspi-
ration, but it has a lot to do with
how Tobier makes art now.
"It was something unexpected.
Something to make direct contact
with and something to take a person
out of their isolation," Tobier said.
He later asked others to con-
tribute personal experiences with
this type of interruption. Perhaps
it's the researcher who plays har-
monica on the Diag and makes the
tired student stop and smile, or the
Ghost and Pac Man chase in the
fishbowl a few years ago that made
everyone stop studying for a min-
ute to laugh. Tobier takes the spark
from these exchanges and recre-
ates them as the pivotal part of his
performances.
Tobier was not always a perfor-
mance artist; he began his career
as a wood sculptor: Making con-
traptions like a two-foot-by-six-
foot wooden box that could operate
as the world's smallest apartment,
complete with bed, workspace and
storage space, Tobier soon gave
up his wood sculpting studio, and

made people, the city and even the
world his new workspace.
"I'd walk through New York
where I grew up, where I was liv-
ing, and I'd see all these amazing
things in the street and I'd open
this big door with a padlock and I'd
go inside my studio and I'd make
wood things. Wood sculptures that
had absolutely nothing to do with
what I was walking through," Tobi-
er said ina Play Gallery video.
"What I realized at a certain
point was that I had a studio life
that was completely separate from
the life around me."
The first project that Tobier cre-
ated to close the gap between his
art and his life in the city was apor-
table bridge that he set up over the
small ponds that formed around
the sewers after a snow melt.
Tobier took an active role, helping
people cross the wooden structure
and engaging them in conversa-
tion when they said such things as,
"I'm so glad the city is finally doing
something about this problem."
Another project involved build-
ing a portable hot chocolate stand
made out of a red patchwork
canopy that produced a warm
glow when people stepped inside.
When Tobier showed a picture
of a policeman leaning out of his
window to get a hot chocolate, it
is clear that his work is connect-
ing all types of people by shaking
them out of their routines.
When Tobier was studying land-

scape architecture in graduate
school (which he described as an
uptight place where students cov-
ered their drawings at night so no
one stole their ideas), he came up
with a project that would alter his
environmentthrough performance.
He constructed a tea cart that he
would bring around to the drawing
boards while students were pulling
all-nighters. The catch was, if the
person wanted the mint tea, they
had to agree to unplug one of their
appliances and have a conversation
with Tobier about something other
than their project.
"It's easy to get a laugh," Tobier
said of his work. "It loses its rel-
evance if it's just funny. When my
work stops at being merely funny,
then we don't have a conversation."
Looking around the room dur-
ing Tobier's lecture, it seemed as
if people couldn't help but smile at
the whimsical magic that Tobier's
work brought to them. It was as if
simply hearing about these "Inter-
ruptions for Everyday Life" was an
interruption on its own.
As last Thursday's lecture con-
cluded, it seemed people were
more likely to engage in conversa-
tion with each other ortto smile at a
strangerwalkingoutofthetheater.
It was as ifmerelyviewing Tobier's
work had chipped away the shell
of isolation that many people go
through life wearing - Plugging
into iPods and cell phones instead
of engaging other people.

Granted, there were probably
mixed responses. But that's also
what Tobier values: the variation
of people and diversity within cit-
ies. When Tobier built a tricycle
with a chandelier that hung from
a beam above his head and was
powered by the energy he cre-
ated when pedaling, he received a
mixed bag of comments that were
shouted at him as he rode through
the city. Some people yelled "freak"
from their apartments, but they
also would shout things like, "Take
back the streets!" and "Streets are
for people and bikes, not cars!"
"The work that I am most proud
of has been (the work that make
things seem) as if the energy of
the city has turned inwards," said
Tobier.
Certainly, on a smaller scale,
Tobier captured the attention of
his audience. He commanded the
energy of an entire room and for
an hour and a half, turned that
energy in on itself and providing an
escape from the nagging thoughts
of everyday tasks and duties.


Car Repair
' C,,Owpet~tl ve 1'ruses
* E1C T-c-rafb a O Z toO Ca MP Ls
" EWaml l o owweI - 3o sec s
T Professional P.
"F o t i A ue 7 4 .
.. Technicians 734.665.9707
The DrivngForcei uoRpi'

ArborVitae Women's Center
We provide the following services FREE of charge:
Pregnancy testing
Ultrasounds
Women's health and abortion info
Material support and referrals
Spiritual support
-eat
A ib O fVIt0
Day and Evening Appointments Available
Located at 625 E. Liberty St. Below Starbucks at State & Libertv


H--,m

I


b-~s id

4

4B - Thursday, January 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


THE FAULT I EELS 'ELECTRO-SHOCK BLUES' (1998)
A 'Shock' to the heartstrings

By DAVID RIVA
Daily Arts Writer
Death is arguably the most unat-
tractive and least-used subject in
popular music. But E, Eels's front-
man and primary creative force,
doesn't care. On Electro-Shock
Blues, he delivers 16 tracks that
unremittingly attack the topic of
mortality. Writing about the loss
of loved ones came naturally to
E when he created the album; he
lost his father at a young age, his
sister committed suicide and, dur-
ing the recording of the album, his
mother lost a long battle with can-
cer. Instead ofignoring the passing
of his entire immediate family, E'
confronted the issue head-on. As a
result, he made a cathartic master-
piece that becomes more captivat-
ing, enchanting and breathtaking
with each listen.
Opener "Elizabeth on the Bath-
room Floor" acts as a suicide note,
read from perspective. The line
"My name is Elizabeth / My life is
shit and piss" is tough to swallow,
but does a fine job setting a dread-
fully dismal tone.
"Going to Your Funeral, Pt. 1"
follows with a deep, droning bass
line backed by a bongo whose hol-
low sound reflects the void felt by
all who attend the wake. Only two
tracks into the album, E's despon-
dency is unbearably palpable.

"Can
a cynic
his mo
of dist,
ic orga
sound,
stage fo
Madne
ing voic
The
ates a
flute an
Opt
be]
its the f
optimis
most
funny /
liar I gu
my wa:
fucking
Butt
leading
with its
rock bt
bility is
ing sca
the do
not OK
along,
good /I
apparer

icer for the Cure" provides complete meltdown.
al and sarcastic outlook on "Going to Your Funeral, Pt. 2"
ther's condition. The mess abandons the unbearably heavy
orted guitars and electron- tone and replaces it with a lighter
in chords create a chaotic feel, highlighted by lush xylophone
appropriately setting the and clarinet sounds. Maybe this
r the song "My Descent Into radical and unexpected turnaround
ss," where E admits to hear- is a representation of the dramatic
ces in his head. contrast between the ups and
deceptive "3 Speed" gener- downs in E's life. Maybe it shows
simpler sound, employing a the potency of the previously cited
id twangy guitar as E exhib- pink pills. The beginning is unclear,
but E never looks back. He adopts
a sanguine attitude that acts as the
key ingredient in his rehabilitation,
im ism hidden which is visible over the course of
1ind m o1 rbi.d the second half of the album.
E decides to take comfort in a
state of contained contemplation.
"Climbingto the Moon" is a positive
irst glint of his wry sense of reflection on his sister's suicide, and
sm with one of the album's "Dead of Winter" follows suit as E
memorable lines: "Life is accepts his mother's prolonged bat-
'But not ha ha funny/ Pecu- tle with cancer. The closing track
ness /You think I got it going wins the awards for best song title
y / Then why am I such a and finest song on the album. "P.S.
mess?" You Rock My World" is the break-
the song proves to be mis- ing point when E finally admits,
, for the title track follows "Maybe it's time to live." Backed
bleak depiction of E hitting by a sweeping string section, the
ttom. His emotional insta- song's declaration of life's victory
reflected in lines like "Feel- in the face of death highlights the
red today ... A hundred times great paradox that lies at the heart
ctors say / I am OK ... I'ni ofElectro-Shock Blues. The idea that
." As the timid piano plods life can still be worth living in the
E mutters "Pink pill feels face of so much suffering is unusu-
Finally understood," and it's ally uplifting and brings the album
nt that he's on the verge of a to a triumphant close.

ANN ARBOR BANDS
From page 1B
fulks stopping by to pick up
cheap beer and catch a good, up-
close-and-personal concert, the
Blind Pig has been an invaluable
resource for developing most
bands in the area.
Jason Berry, in charge of book-
ing for the venue, is primar-
ily responsible for selecting the
bands that come through, and he
doesn't forget a face.
"Once you're in their world,
theyhave avested interestinhelp-
ing you grow," said Jonathan Vis-
ger of local mainstay band Mason
Proper - a group of University
graduates whose new album Olly
Oxen Free recently garnered a
favorable review fromtherespect-
ed indie webzine Pitchfork. But
as much as Jason and the folks at
the Blind Pig do their best to help
out, there's still a seemingly end-
less amount of drudgework to be
done. "It's a matter of constantly
reminding people that you exist,"
Jonathan continued. "Bands that
ruthlessly self-promote tend to do
a lot better much quicker."
"You really have to promote
yourself," said Ryan Sloan of
Farewell Republic, an inventive
post-rock outfit that happens to
be playing a show tonight at the
Blind Pig with Detroit's Satin
Peaches. "In Ann Arbor, you learn
how to build your chops as a pro-
motion machine."
In actuality, promoting shows
extends far beyond the thousands
of posters adorning Ann Arbor's
fagades: Tools like Facebook
and MySpace prove essential to
reaching larger crowds, and local
press is more than happy to put in
a blurb about an upcoming show
every now and then.
While most bands that call Ann
Arbor home would be considered
"indie," the term has become as
broad as, say, "alternative" was
by the end of the '90s. The broad
spectrum of "indie iock" serves
as an umbrella term for the eclec-
tic sounds present across the Ann
Arbor music scene. Bands like
Lightning Love are notably pep-
pier, with more dance and pop-
oriented sounds. Atthe same time,
there are plenty of other more lay-
ered and guitar-driven acts like
Starling Electric and Farewell
Republic. Heck, My Dear Disco is
even known to break out the bag-
pipes in its live shows. Since there
are so many bands all wit differ-
ent sounds, there has to be some
competition, right?
"No, not at all," Sloan said.
"Everybody helps each other out,
and it makes for a really great
atmosphere."
The cooperative environment
he describes is most apparent
in the shared bills at the Blind

I


Pig, thi
another
called I
"Blu
time,":
Disco.
moterT
Bluegra
roots rr
day nil
above t
It's m
musicia
as Dun
Bluegra
I guara
ally con
local sc
Loca
Ann Ar
decline
Fa
fl1:
til
across
years. P
Underg
Sounds
import,
scene t''
ing An
showsc
in-stur
suppor
the ba
confide
power-
themse
they ne
This
unique
homegi
sense c
or ra

COURTESY OF MASON PROPER
e constant plugging of one iTunes can never offer.
ts shows and something "They love what they do," says
Bluegrass Night. Caleb Dillon of Starling Electric,
egrass Night is a great a vibrant quartet which released
said Duncan of My Dear its stunning CloudedStaircase last
Organized by local pro- year, and will be playing at the
Matthew "Tuna" Altruda, Blind Pig Friday night with Light-
ass Night is a free night of ning Love. "Just like us, when
nusic held every Wednes- they hear something they really
ght at Circus Bar & Grill love, they go out and tell people
he Cavern nightclub. about it."
sore of a gathering of local Despite so much support from
ins than anything else, all involved in the local scene, the
can explains: "You go to student crowd as a whole doesn't
ass Night a few times, and always reflect their enthusiasm.
ntee that you will eventu- It's hard to blame them, consider-
me across everyone on the ing the array of parties and clubs
'ene." that decorate Ann Arborunightlife,
.1 music shops thrive in though many would say students
bor, contrary to the sharp just have too much going on.
in larger music stores "It seems like (students) are
pulled in a lot of directions at
once. They're involved with too
many things to take the time to
rebook beats come out to shows all the time,"
Caleb said. "And ina city as active
yers for get- as Ann Arbor, it's difficult to
know everything that's going on
ng the word at once.
Still, it seems that there could
always be more enthusiasm sur-
rounding local music, record
the country in recent stores or venues.
'laces like Wazoo Records, But behind the cynicism and
round Sounds, Encore unimportance typically placed
and PJ's Records have an around local music, there's always
ant place in the local music the hope that someone will take a
hemselves, many promot- chance. Someone will walk over
n Arbor bands' upcoming to Wazoo or Underground Sounds
or new albums with large instead of clicking on iTunes;
e posters. Some show their another will stop by the Blind
t by purchasing CDs from Pig and be pleasantly surprised
nds, regardless of their by that one band that had all of
nce in the album's selling those posters. With new people
- their faith in the bands comes new enthusiasm, and with
ives is all the assurance the constant influx of students,
ed. there are always people willing to
grassroots support is take that chance. In a local scene
to these smaller, more as storied, dynamic and eclectic
rown shops, creating a as Ann Arbor's, there's no doubt
of hospitality that larg-' people will continue to find music
ilers like Wal-Mart and worth sharine with the world. 4

4

A

READER
KNOWS BEST.
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

I
I


