,ddmmmmml - d
440 441P 46F
1111C41gan 4,.Dat
ON 1,,, 1.1 T IN Mll FF) N., I N FT P F ]N ., VFA 1.1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, March 10, 2009

michigandaily.com

EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH
Obamalifts
stem cell
restrictions

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
English Prof. Ralph Williams was beaming and teary-eyed after learning he had been awarded the first-ever Lifetime Achievement Golden Apple Award last night in Angell Hall.
A Lifetime of Achievement

University scientists
say change in policy
will boost research
and funding
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Ending an almost decade-long
battle between the scientific com-
munity and the White House, Pres-
ident Barack Obama announced
yesterday that he would lift feder-
al restrictions on embryonic stem
cell research, much to delight of
University researchers and Michi-
gan politicians alike.
The announcement reversed
a 2007 executive order and 2001
presidential statement from
then-President Bush that limited
research opportunities and fund-
ing for. scientists working with
embryonic stem cells.
At the White House yesterday,
Obama promised that the science
policy put forth by his adminis-
tration' would not be "distorted
or concealed to serve a political
agenda" and would restore "sci-
entific integrity to government
decision-making."
"Promoting science isn't just
about providing resources, it is
also about protecting free and
open inquiry," Obama said.
For Sean Morrison, the director
of the University's Center for Stem
Cell Biology, and other University
researchers, yesterday symbolized
the end of a nearly eight-year battle
to get the federal ban overturned.
"This is a great day for America,
and a great day for science, and'

a great day for the University of
Michigan," Morrison said.
He said Obama's decision to
repeal then-President Bush's
restrictions will have anenormous
impact on science and medicine.
"He made the point that in his
administration, there will be an
open and honest discussion of the
science underlining their deci-
sions, and that science policy will
be based on science and not based
on ideology," he said.
Congressman John D. Ding-
ell (D-Dearborn), whose district
includes part of Ann Arbor, wrote
in a press release that Obama's
decision can only spur positive
results, especially for the Univer-
sity community.
"Our scientists at the Univer-
sity of Michigan are on the cusp
of remarkable breakthroughs in
the area of stem cell research,"
he wrote. "Much of this research
has been done despite incredible
restrictions at both the state and
local levels hampering their work
for many years."
He said that with last Novem-
ber's passage of Proposal 2; which
loosened restrictions on embryon-
ic stem cell research in the state,
Michigan voters started a process
that took the "handcuffs off" stem
cell researchers.
"Today's executive order will
hopefully pave the way for addi-
tional federal resources to-support
the important work already being
done in Michigan," he said.
LSA senior Landon Krantz,
president of the University's chap-
ter of the Student Society for Stem
Cell Research, said he felt relieved
after the announcement yesterday
See STEM CELLS, Page 7

Prof. Ralph Williams
awarded University's
first-ever Lifetime
Golden Apple award
By VALIANT LOWITZ
For theDaily
During a routine lecture yester-
day, students witnessed history as
English Prof. Ralph Williams was
honored with the first-ever Life-
time Achievement Golden Apple
Award.
Williams' course, English 313:
On Human Bonding, was inter-
rupted last night as members of the
organization Students Honoring

Outstanding University Teaching
filed down the Angell Hall lecture
hall stairs with balloons and flow-
ers in hand.
The Golden Apple Award hon-
ors outstanding teachers, and
variations of it exist across the
country. The University's annual
tribute was created by SHOUT
in order to single out University
professors who "strive not only
to disseminate knowledge but to
inspire and engage students in its
pursuit."
Williams, who was unaware
of the award, was beaming and
teary-eyed following the sur-
prise.
"There are seldom times when
I am speechless," Williams said.
"However, this is one of those

moments."
After receiving the award, Wil-
liams spoke about the importance
of work ethic and told a story of a
childhood conversation with his
parents.
"You best be useful in life,"
Williams said he learned from
his parents. "Because you are
certainly no ornament. I looked
in the mirror and thought, 'God,
they're right.'"
In 1992, Williams received the
annual Golden Apple Award. The
award he received last night was
the first to honor an entire career of
exemplary teaching.
Williams began his career at
the University of Michigan in
1970, and quickly became a well-
known figure on campus. Dur-

ing his nearly thirty years at the
University, he has been chair of
the University English program,
director of the Honors program
in English and head of the Great
Books program.
Williams is a favorite among stu-
dents and known for making every
effort to know students on a per-
sonal level.
His theatrical lectures and pas-
sion for his course material have
been cause for packed lecture halls
for years, -with students and par-
ents of students seeking to catch a
glimpse of Williams' unique teach-
ing style.
Students turned in nominations
for professors through the Golden
Apple website.
See WILLIAMS, Page 7


ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
City Council builds
local support for

U' researchers
find pancreatic

Iraq Water Project cancer gene

T2,.t tnn roen rn}

i v

Org
wa
sy
Supp
Project
lives in
ing wat
Arbor.
IWP
Michig
organiz
the Ge
tion ha
Sept. 11
The
voted
the pro
' which
suppor
Laut
directo
said sh
of the
much-n

anization sends ibility to the project.
"To be able to say the city of
ter purification Ann Arbor's government is behind
the project can get it attentionthat
stems to Iraqis it wouldn't have otherwise," Rus-
sello said.
By LARA ZADE Councilmember Tony Derezin-
Daily StaffReporter ski (D-Ward 2), the cosponsor of
-- . the resolution, said he wasn't sur-
port for the Iraq Water prised that all of his fellow council
, a national effort to save members supported the endorse-
Iraq by improving drink- ment.
ter, has made its way to Ann "I just think we unanimously
saw the value of it," he said. "The
is spearheaded locally by project sells itself and it meets a
an Peaceworks, a nonprofit human need."
nation that protests the way And as a Vietnam War veteran
orge W. Bush administra- and a member of numerous war
ndled the aftermath of the veteran organizations himself,
1, 2001 terrorist attacks. Derezinski said the IWP stood out
Ann Arbor City Council to him among other projects that
unanimously to endorse City Council has supported in the
ject at last week's meeting, past because it is a collaboration
officially provides the city's between a veteran program and
t for the project. an organization for peace.
-a 'Russello, the executive "I'm so glad that now people
r of Michigan Peaceworks, respect the returning war veter-
e believes the endorsement ans and that they can work with
IWP by City Council adds them on projects of mutual con-
needed credibility and vis- See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7

Discovery could lead
to future treatments
for a cancer that will
kill 34,000 this year
By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor
Over 90 percent of people diag-
nosed with pancreatic cancer die
from it, according to the American

0--, C-niot-

cancer society. nut top research
scientists at the University's Com-
prehensive Cancer Center have just
identified a gene overexpressed in
90 percent of pancreatic cancers,
and the discovery will enable them
to develop more effective therapies
to treat the disease.
When comparing pancreatic can-
cer cellsto those in a healthy pancre-
as, expression of a gene called ATDC
is on average 20 times higher in the
cancerous cells. The gene is also
believed to make pancreatic cancer

KRISTA BOYD/Daily
Diane Simeone, director of the Multidisciplinary Pancreatic Cancer Clinic, was one of
the researchers involved in discovering a gene that is linked to pancreatic cancer.
cells resistant to current therapies. and be more aggressive, but it also
"We found that ATDC not only makes the cancer cells particular-
causes cancer cells to grow faster See CANCER, Page 7

COMMUNITY SERVICE
Former University athlete creates program for kids

By ANNIE THOMAS
For the Daily
As a former Michigan baseball
player, Jeff Diamond knows the
value of good sportsmanship. That's
why he created Good Sports, an
organization designed to get inner-
city kids involved in athletics.
The aim of the group is to bring
kids from inner-city Detroit to the

University to watch varsity sports;
and participate in after-school
sports activities.Diamond is hoping
to have University students donate
one dollar each to participate in
intramural sports and would use
the money to fund the activities.
A sophomore in the School of
Kinesiology, Diamond said he
wanted to create something that
he could get excited about and that

other students would be interested
in as well.
"I really wanted to get into com-
munity service," Diamond said. "I
hadn't really done anything fresh-
man year and I wanted to create
something that I could relate to,
since I played sports my whole
life."
Diamond said he decided to try
something new after leaving the

Michigan baseball team earlier this
school year. After walking on to the
team as a freshman, Diamond left
the team at the end of his first sea-
son in order to focus more time on
being a student.
He was inspired to play a more
active role in the community by his
brother Mike Diamond. While a
student, Diamond's brother helped
See PROGRAM, Page 7


WEATHER HlI:38 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LU:7 ~ newsomichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Sims, Harris garner All-Big Ten honors in hoops.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEVWS.. .............................. 2 ARTS.................S.................. 5
Vol. CXX,No.105 SUDOKU...............................3 CLASSIFIEDS......................6
©2@009TheMichiganDaily OPINION ...........................4 SPORTS................................8
michigondailycom

j IL :.


a

2 - Tuesday, March 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


Caffeine and conversation

Jimmy Curtiss, an employee of Cafe Ambrosia, said one of his faoorite parts ofI
is interacting with the costomers.
CRIME NOTES

Man and guest
receive MINs
in West Quad
WHERE: Went Quadrangle
WHEN: Sunday at about
t:45 am.
WHAT: A male student and bin
visitor were cited as minors in
possession of alcohol and taken
to the Huron Valley Hospital
due to tbeir medical condition,
University Police reported.
Student in Mo.Jo
cuts foot, taken
to hospital
WHERE: Mosher-Jordan Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 2 .m.
WHAT: An ambulance was
requested for a male student
with s cot foot, University Police
reported. The student was taken
to University Hospital for treat-
ment.

Lunch bag, $26,
and credit cards
stolen at hospital
WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Saturday at about
2 p.m.
WHAT: A green and yellow
lunch bag containing credit
cards and $26 in cash was sto-
len from a University hospital
staff member, University Police
reported. Police have no sus-
pects.
Truck tangled
with car door
WHERE: Parking lot at 300
Stadium Dr.
WHEN: Saturday at about
7 p.m.
WHAT: A ladder on the side
of a truck hit the side of a Sat-
urn sedan and pulled it out of
its parking space, University
Police reported.

I a Since the tender age of "t'vs
12, University alum Jimmy telling
"J-Star" Curtiss has taken five yet
his coffee black, thank you Bets
very much. sibilitit
But, the Plymouth native and m,
wasn't fully satisfied by his findst
local Starbucks, which he the ct
deemed "conservative". describ
Seeking a departure fromn grad of
} fra.nchine-brewed coffee sors, a
and while on break from his few dir
?' then-summer job at Betsey indie ki
v Barbour House five years Mar
ago, Curtiss stumbled into Curtiss
Cafe Ambrosia down the who h,-
I street. the caf
"(I thought) yeah, right, produce
this place will last two esprest
weeks," Curtiss said. of the'
Five years later, he remains cookie:
a constant fixture there. "Pec
Shortly after his firstcforay vegan
ofK/naiy into Ambrosia, the man- ion," Cs
his job spec hired Curtiss, who has One
worked at the rafe ever since. ice me
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Lecture on Session
women and school p
the economy WHAT: Apre
WHAT: A lecture on the University, W,
negative impact of gender University, Cc
stereotypes on women's shty and the Uj
career progress Detroit-Mercy
WHO: School of Social Work, WHO: The Cs
Women's Studies and Psy- WHEN: Tonig
chology Departments to 8 p.m.
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m. to WHERE: Moc
4:30 p.m. Languages Bui
WHERE: 2239 Lane Hall Hall One
Talk o body CORRECTIONS
Talkon bdy " A news arti
image and sex da' dto
WHAT: A lecture on the application pa
intersection between the divedor
personal and political ddntpoe
aspects of gender and social quote from R:
sex roles lucci. The qut
WHO: The P-Word from an articl
WHEN: Tonight from 4 p.mn. da Flambeau.
to 5:30 p.m. " Please repc
WHERE: Weill Hall, 1230 the Daily torcc
O'Neill Room michigandail'

-had 31 jobs, so it
that Ive beenhere f(
trs," Curtios said.
veen his daily reopo:
to of stocking iten
caking coffee, Cocci:
time to banter wit
tstomers, which 1
ben as "a plurality
udents, some profe
lot of townies, and
n-hard undergrads
zids."
ny of the customer
serves are regular
lave favorite items,
.. Curtiss said whi.
cto with chai at
,so are popular, or
biggest draws is if
ople flip out for tf
chocolate chip cool
urtiss said.
of Cortiss' favo:
emories at the ca;,
on law
?rep
esentation from
Michigan State
ryne State
ooley Univer-
niversity of
,law schools.
areer Center
tbt from 4 p.m.
fdern
ilding, Lecture
tie in yester-
of The Michi-
ewFacebook
airsaprospec-
roommates)
dry attribute a
'obect Castel-
ste was taken
:le in the Flori-
ort any error in
,rrections@
ly.com.

's occurred. last year during
or the Graduate Employee
Organization strike.
n- "There was a huge rally
so outside the door," Curtiss
so said. "GEO used the base-
h ment as their headquar-
te tern."
of Despite his fond recoI-
s- lections, Curtiss doesn't
a anticipate working at Cafe
- Ambrosia for much longer.
"I'm not gonna lie, I'm
to getting older now. (I11 work
to here) probably for a couple
at more years," said Curtiss.
le Though his future
d remains uncertain, Cortion
te admits that he has no idea
le what he'll end up doing five
or 10 years down the road.
te "Foresight and vision
k- have never been my thing,"
said Curtiss. "One day at a
r- time, man."
fA - JASMINE ZHU
IA British coffee taster's
tongue is insured for $14
million, the BBC reported.
Enown as a Master of Coffee
for the Costa Coffee company
of London, Gennaro Pellic-
cia tastes a sample from each
batch of raw coffee beans
before the beans ace roasted
and shipped to its stores.
2 Michigan Basketball
sophomore Manny Harris
received first-team All-Big
Ten Conference honors yester-
day. Harris is the only Big Ten
player ranked in the cop 10 in
points, rebounds and assists.
>>FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS. PAGE 8.
3The outdoor warning
sirens in the city of Ann
Arbor are scheduled to
be. tested today at 1 p.m. The
city's 22 sirens ace intended
to serve as an alert for people
to take cover immediately if
they ace outdoors. If there is a
threat of severe weather today,
the test will be cancelled.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 4a109-1327
wmw.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor is Chief Busisess Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0555
gnaca@michigandaitycom bogi@michigandaitycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
NewsomnOfficehors:Sun.-Thr.tt1a.m-2 am
News Tips new@michigandaityeom
Corrections :crrcions@ichigandaily.aom
letters oothe Editor rerhedalypmichigandailyncom
Phototnaphy Depantment phoro@eichigandaitnacom
Arts Settion arrsymichigandaityecom
Editorial Page opinon@michigandailypnem
Sports Section sporrsgihigandaitypaom
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
tlassifted Sales classiiedpmichigandailyacom
Otline tales.ontineads@michigandaiy.com
inante finance@nichiganditpecom
EDITORIAL STAFF
tountnep Ralkowiak ManagingtEditor ratkowiak@miehigandaity.com,
JacoblSmilovitz Managin ewsmcditor smoitznr@ihigandaiy.om
SENOR NS EDIORnoS:Jilin erman,,,revo ,r rCitt Schnide,
Lindyn Stevens
ASSSNToNEWmSEInoORS:Matt Aaronson, Benjamrin S. Chase, Ja ,Skole,
Robert Soave Edioril PageEditor soaee@michigandaily.com
ASSOCAE DITOsRIAE EDIORnS:s,,iyeat,,esriaFlahert,telnilder
Andy Reid Managint SportsnEditor reid@michigandaity.com
HerringRth Lincoln
ASSSTAoNSOREIOS:Rn'oo ri,,Ian K,JaKole,Chis Meszaros,
Alex Prospri, ColRsnwi
David Watnick Managing Arscditor watnick@michigandailyomw
SENIR RTeeS EDITORJaie Blok, Brndn nadi,c:,s, htny Pow
ASISTNT ARS EDIOS Jsha e,AndmrOe ai, De a, Besn Vanmgoner
ZacharypMeisner and photopmictdsndailyoow
tC Reeder ManagingPboto Edinors
Angelatbhih and design@michigandaiy.eom
Maureen Styth Managing esign Edinors
Jessica Vtsterchian MagzneEditor eosgerehian@michigandaity.com,
David Meiin MultimdiaoEditor merian@michigandaiy.omn
Ktatherine Mitchel) Copy Chief mithetl@michigandaity.conm
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrttenboer DisplayAdvertising as Manger
Ryan Businski Classified SatesManager
Ren English Produon esign Managr
Meryl Hultent LayoutnManager
Vision Lee and Emily Loveless Financersnaogers
ThreMihgntDaiy(IS~N 04.97a s ublish:,erMondthrogh rdsay durnte talendiner
termn bystudents ettheUniverstynto icigan.Onncopy isavailt renotchargentoaleers.
Additon:coinnmy ickpdart thatofcefrt$2.tSubscriptios ofall and witer term
(September through Arl)viaUS. maiare$20. Yer-round subscrrripin ,yier, prig ad
tumner ssues) are$225 Susiption:usb rpid. Te ichiganDay isa mmrofThe
AsePrssanoe socie o lg~iat e ens.


0

[

Renowned. Respected.
And really close to home.J

6
I

Oakland University offers more than 100 prestigious graduate programs in the hottest fields,
including master's degrees and short-term certificates so you can:
Stand out from colleagues
Increase your career options
Quickly retool your credentials
Plus research shows those with master's degrees enjoy higher pay, increased employee
benefits, and a better work/life balance than their peers without this credentiali*
Convenient locations in Oakland and Macomb counties, -
and flexible payment options make earning a_ rdat ereeairtanyutik.y- Y
*"Your Biy Payday"by Al Fonteropblvshedin Yahoo! Edcaton2008,.,
based on a 1998 stdyhby the Institte of Hyher Education Polcy
Get more information
or apply online at
www.oakiand.edu/gograd
or call (248) 370-3167. H k ii
Mascer of T
Oakland
UNIVERSITY ___________________________

0

6

1 11

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 10, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 10, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Senators vote to
preserve personal
home-state projects
Members of both parties yester-
day voted to keep their cherished
home-state projects as the Senate
resumed debate on a spending bill
covering foreign aid and domestic
agency budgets.
By a 63-32 vote, lawmakers
rejected a bid by Sen. John McCain,
R-Ariz., to effectively strip about
8,000 of those earmarks from the
$410 billion measure.
"If the president really wants to
change Washington, as soon as this
bill reaches his desk, he should veto
it and send it back and say, 'Clean it
up,"' McCain said.
Instead, the White House says
President Barack Obama will sign
the measure, despite all the proj-
ects. During last year's campaign,
Obama he promised to cut the
number of earmarks way back and
institute other changes.
But lawmakers in both parties
defend the practice, and 10 Repub-
lican joined most Democrats to
defeat McCain's amendment.
"Yes, I fight for funds for my
state. That's what I came here to
do," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., a senior member of the
Senate Appropriations Commit-
tee, which doles out the earmarks.
"Candidly, why be an appropriator
if you can't help your state?"
WASHINGTON
Top Obama officials
meet to talk about
d.osing Guantanamo
TopofficialsoftheObamaadmin-
istration met privately yesterday to
discuss how to close the Guantana-
mo Bay detention facility.
Attorney General Eric Holder
hosted the first Cabinet-level meet-
ing of President Barack Obama's
Guantanamo task force. Partici-
pating in the meeting, among oth-
ers, were Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton, Defense Secre-
tary Robert Gates, CIA Director
Leon Panetta and FBI Director
Robert Mueller.
Obama has pledged to close the
facility for terror suspects within
a year, and officials must decide
which suspects to ship away to for-
eign countries and which to bring to
trial in U.S. courts, or tried and held
by the U.S. in some other fashion.
At Monday's high-level meeting,
the group discussed standards for
reviewing detainee cases, which
detainee decisions will get priority,
and what has been done to date.
WARREN, Mich.
Autos task force
tours Chrysler, tests
GM electric cars
Four members of President
Barack Obama's autos task force
spent much of their day yesterday
driving General Motors Corp. elec-
tric vehicles and touring a Chrysler
LLC pickup truck factory.

The members, led by Wall Street
financier Steven Rattner and Steel-
workers union official Ron Bloom,
traveled first to GM's tech center
in the Detroit suburb of Warren,
Mich., and then drove to Chrysler's
Warren Truck plant.
GM and Chrysler are living on
a total of $17.4 billion in govern-
ment loans, and the task force is
trying to determine if they will get
more money. The companies have
requested a total of $39 billion as
they try to survive the worst U.S.
auto sales downturn in 27 years.
Task force members first visited
the sprawling GM tech center, where
they were greeted by Chief Executive
Rick Wagoner and test-drove white
and silver Chevrolet Volt electric
cars, according to shots taken from
television news helicopters.
DETROIT
Detroit schools settle
with former chief
The Detroit Public Schools has
settled a lawsuit with a former
superintendent who claimed he
was wrongfully fired.
Emergency financial manager
Robert Bobb says in a release that
the district has settled with Wil-
liamColemanIII foranundisclosed
amount. Coleman was replaced in
2007 by former Superintendent
Connie Calloway, now on adminis-
trative leave.
Coleman alleged he was fired
after asking federal authorities to
investigate financial irregularities.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Ford workers
approve UAW
contract deals

Professor Stanley Wells, chairman of the Shakespeare Birthplace trust and one of the world's leading experts on Shakespeare
studies, poses next to a newly-discovered portrait of William Shakespeare in central London yesterday.
Portrait of Shakespeare
unveilIed, but is it him?.

Painting is thought
to be the only one
created during his life
LONDON (AP) - The Bard, or
not the Bard? That is the question
posed by yesterday's unveiling of
a centuries-old portrait of a dark-
eyed, handsome man in Elizabe-
than finery.
Experts say it is the only portrait
of William Shakespeare painted
during his lifetime - in effect, the
sole source of our knowledge of
what the great man looked like.
But they can't be certain. In the
shiftingsandsofShakespeareschol-
arship, where even the authorship
of the plays is sometimes disputed,
nothing is written in stone.
"We're 90 percent sure that it's
Shakespeare," said Paul Edmond-
son, director of learning at the
Shakespeare Learning Trust,
which plans to exhibit the portrait
in Stratford-on-Avon. "You'll never
be entirely certain. There will
always be voices of dissent."
Incredibly, the portrait has been

in private hands for several centu-
ries but the owners - the Cobbe
family - had no idea the man in
the painting was responsible for so
many enduring masterpieces.
All that changed three years
ago, Edmondson said, when one
of the Cobbes (he won't say which
one) walked into the National
Portrait Gallery in London's
Trafalgar Square to see a travel-
ing exhibit called "Searching for
Shakespeare."
One of the first things he saw
was a famous portrait of the Bard
that usually hangs in the renowned
Folger Shakespeare Library in
Washington.
"Hisjawdropped,"saidEdmond-
son. "He realized he had one at
home. And the one he had at home
turned out to be the original."
Edmondson said the portrait
is far superior to the copies made
after Shakespeare's death, includ-
ing the famous 1623 engraving that
graces the cover of the First Folio
collection of Shakespeare's plays.
"This is Shakespeare alive, with
fresh blood pumping through his
veins, painted in his lifetime,"

Edmondson said with obvious
pride. "The copies look dead by
comparison."
He said scholars are convinced
it is Shakespeare because so many
copies of the painting were made,
including the one at the Folger, and
because the painting was handed
down through the generations
along with a portrait of the Earl of
Southampton, Shakespeare's main
patron.
The Cobbe collection curator,
Mark Broch, spent three years
researching the painting, and sev-
eral sophisticated tests, includ-
ing X-ray examinations, tree-ring
dating on the wooden frame, and
infrared imaging, were made to
determine its age.
At the Folger Library, art and
special collections curator Erin
Blake agreed that their Shake-
speare portrait is based on the one
unveiled Monday, which officials
have dubbed "the Cobbe portrait."
But she said it is impossible to
verify beyond all doubt that the
person in both portraits is Shake-
speare, although circumstantial
evidence suggests it is.

Contract changes
include freezing wages
and benefit cuts
DETROIT (AP) - Unionized
workers at Ford Motor Co. have
approved contract changes that
include freezing wages and cut-
ting benefits in a move aimed at
helping the automaker remain
competitive.
The United Auto Workers said
yesterday a majority of hourly
workers voted in favor of modifi-
cations to the 2007 contract with
Ford, eliminating cost-of-living
increases and cash bonuses.
The agreement is expected to be
a model for Chrysler LLC and Gen-
eral Motors Corp., which need to
bring their labor costs in line with
those of foreign auto companies'
plants in the U.S. as a condition for
the $17.4 billion they have received
in federal loans so far. Under terms
of their loan agreements, progress
must be made by March 31. The
companies are seeking an addition-
al $21.6 billion in government aid.
Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford,
which has not sought government
funding as its rivals have, is the
first U.S. automaker to come to an
agreement with the union. The
company said that it did not want
to be at a disadvantage should its
competitors negotiate lower labor
costs with the UAW.
The UAW pact also allows Ford
to use company stock to make pay-
ments to a union-run health care
trust, called voluntary employee
beneficiary associations,orVEBAs.
Ford can use stock to pay up to 50
percent of its payments, which
would pay retiree health care ben-
efits. Ford owes $6.3 billion to its
VEBA at the end of this year.
Chrysler, however, may not be
able to match Ford's guarantee of
issuing additional shares for the
trust if Ford's share price drops,

according to a person briefed
on Chrysler's negotiations. The
person asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.
Chrysler is a privately held
company and would have to grant
partial ownership to the union,
since there are no public shares of
the company. Chrysler must pay
around $9.9 billion to its trust at
the end of the year, while GM has
to pay about $20 billion.
The UAW said 59 percent of
Ford's production workers and
58 percent of skilled-trades work-
ers voted for the concessions. At
least two local unions rejected the
measures.
"By working together with our
UAW partners, we identified solu-
tions that will help Ford reach
competitive parity with foreign-
owned auto manufacturers and
that are important to our efforts
to operate through the current
economic environment with-
out accessing a bridge loan from
the U.S. government," said UAW
President Ron Gettelfinger in a
written statement.
Base wages for UAW workers
will remain the same, but the deal
limits supplemental pay that laid-
off workers receive whiletheycol-
lect unemployment benefits. The
ratified deal also ends the contro-
versial jobs bank program that let
workers collect most of their pay
from the company when laid-off.
"Now the pressure is on to get
a similar agreement at GM and
Chrysler. Time is running out,"
said Aaron Bragman, an auto ana-
lyst with the consulting company
IHS Global Insight in Troy, Mich.
"It's ironic that Ford was able to
accomplish it, being the one that
doesn't have an agreement with
the government."
Shares of Ford rose 4 cents, or
2.4 percent, to close at $1.74 in the
regular session. After hours, the
stock gained 6 cents, or 3.5 per-
cent, to $1.80.

We can help!
Advising appointments available same day!
Call 764-7460 for more information.
Open Monday nights in March for additional assistance.
The reer Center
The ltiarsituy ofuMichiganD sion of Studet Affairs


4 - Tuesday, March 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C I I4e fitic4tpan 4,3a' ily

I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
AVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA ROBERT SO
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
Burning smokers
State should find other methods of paying for S-CHIP
T he cost of lighting up is soon going to be anything but
light. On Feb. 4, President Obama signed a law that will
increase the tax on tobacco products in order to fund the
State Children's Health Insurance Program, which makes health-
care more affordable for children from low-income families. In
addition to the federal tax increases, a bill that would raise Mich-
igan's tobacco tax is currently being debated by state represen-
tatives. While the proceeds from these taxes would support an
important program, placing the burden of paying for it solely on
smokers is both unfair and inequitable. Legislators should find a
new way to pay for S-CHIP that distributes the fiscal responsibil-
ity of paying for it across a more reasonable tax base.

While your risk is very high,
my risks are irrelevant.
- Helg Sgrabi, a Swiss man convicted for fraud, in a blackmail letter to BMW heiress Susanne Klatten
claiming he possessed a sex tape with her in it, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ELAINE MORTON I ATHE C, E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
To6acco +40s- Win forub isVhe 41 CAI' y' 4LOSE
WlN~W-WIN . 91 ~rxe o
w n for politis.. .fri

a

a

Misdirected morals

The federaltax increase affects all tobac-
co products, but loose tobacco is facing the
most significant change - from a $1.10 per
pound tax to a whopping $24.78 per pound
tax. On top of the national tax hike, the bill
under consideration by Michigan's House
of Representatives proposes to increase
the state tobacco tax from 34 to 64 percent.
The state and federal tax increases would
both go toward S-CHIP.
Certainly, S-CHIP ought to receive full
support in government budgets. Ensuring
that every child has access to health care is
an obligation that both the state and feder-
al governments need to honor because no
child should be denied access to a healthy
life on the basis of family income. When
taxes are needed to support programs like
S-CHIP, reasonable tax increases are more
than justifiable. And during tough eco-
nomic times, we might expect to see higher
taxes on tobacco going to pay for programs
like this as other revenue sources decline.
But it's simply unfair to place the entirety
of this burden on the shoulders of tobacco
users through such a massive tax increase.
According to the Center for Disease Con-
trol, 20.8 percent of all U.S. adults smoke
but 30.6 percent of adults below the pov-
erty line are smokers. This means that this

massive tax increase disproportionately
impacts the individuals who are least able
to afford it. Lower-income individuals also
have the greatest difficulty in reducing
their use of tobacco because they cannot
easily afford products like nicotine patches
that might help them overcome their addic-
tions. And according to the American Lung
Association, about 20 percent of college
students smoke. These taxes, then, also fall
to cash-strapped college students for whom
smoking is an addiction, not somethingthey
can just give up due to rising costs.
Since the federal tax increase on tobacco
was already approved, the federal govern-
ment should now concentrate on providing
better assistance to low-income smokers
whose options for quitting are few. At the
state level, Michigan legislators should con-
sider alternate methods of funding S-CHIP
that distribute the financial responsibility
more equitably.
Funding S-CHIP to ensure the health of
underprivileged children is a good use of
resources, but sticking smokers with the
bill isn't the best method of paying for it.
Low-income smokers need to be provided
with better access to treatments that can
help them quit smoking before their addic-
tion can be taxed so heavily.

love to listen to liberals talk
about the drug war, social issues
and civil liberties. They often
invoke the idea,
for example, that
a woman owns
her uterus and
her body, and she
thereforeownsthe
right to do what
she wants with
her body. The rea-
soning behind the VINCENT
above argument
is very important, PATSY
because by using
the principle of
self-ownership, liberals strike at
what is essentially the core of classi-
cal liberalism or libertarianism. This
core is the idea that individuals have
natural rights and any violation of
these rights is immoral.
All rights are essentially the appli-
cation of self-ownership to different
parts of one's body. I own my mind,
lungs and mouth, and therefore have
the right to free speech. The fact that
the First Amendment to the Consti-
tution protects this right is irrelevant
- the natural right of self-ownership
supersedes the Constitution.
But liberals' inability to extend
natural rights to economics is where
my love affair with them ends.
I own my body, my mind and my
property. Ican dispose of my property
in any manner I conclude will bring
me more happiness as long as I do not
violate the rights of others. When I
decide to exchange my property in
a voluntary manner, I have a right to
do so. By introducing coercion into
the exchange of property, the govern-
ment violates my rights just the same
as ifit was suppressing my right to free
speech. And the system of econom-

ics which is compatible with natural
rights is free market capitalism.
The resistance to free market eco-
nomics often comes from a misunder-
standing of what capitalists actually
believe. As a capitalist, I do not want
subsidies for big oil, I do not want us
to use our military to conquer for-
eign lands, and I certainly do not
want businesses to be regulated. All
three of these actions represent coer-
cion and an aberration of someone's
natural rights. They are also tools by
which larger businesses use govern-
ment to oppress smaller businesses.
Our current situation is in no way
free market capitalism, but rather
revolves around business leaders and
government coercing the citizens for
the benefit of business over that of the
people. Established businesses want
to be regulated because they will
be better able to pay for, and have a
better understanding of, the licenses
needed to run a business - like tax
code, for instance. They essentially
use government to eliminate their
weaker competitors.
Another misrepresentation of the
free market was brought up recently in
Adam Gaglio's viewpoint (The perils of
environmentalism, 03/01/2009). Gaglio
mentioned environmentalists' notion
thatresources are scarce so we need to
preserve them for future generations.
But all resources are scarce - that is
why you have to pay for food and cloth-
ing. There is a limited amount of all
resources other than air. If resources
were not scarce, we would be living
in the Garden of Eden with all of our
desires met instantly. Unfortunately,
we were kicked out for various indis-
cretions and now we have scarcity of
all goods. This means that we need to
utilize them.
Only the free market can deal with

the proper utilization of resources.
Suppose I owned a tungsten mine
with avalue of $10 million. IfIdigout
$1 millionworthoftungstenthisyear,
I will have $9 million left in capital
value. Now suppose that the world is
running out of tungsten. This change
Why liberals
should love the
free market.
would be reflected in a higher capi-
tal value for my mine, maybe up to
$100 million. This prompts me to dig
out less tungsten, and since the price
rises, the marginal users of tungsten
may switch to other metals. If the
government owns the mine, then
there is no capital value. There is no
possible way for them to know how
much tungsten to produce now and
how much to leave in the ground.
Author Isabel Paterson, one of the
founders of the libertarian move-
ment, once wrote: "Most of the harm
in the world is done by good people,
and not by accident, lapse, or omis-
sion. It is the result of their deliber-
ate actions, long preserved in, which
they hold to be motivated by high ide-
als toward virtuous ends." Liberals, I
do not doubt your devotion to higher
goals, I merely object to the meansby
which you attempt to achieve them.
To my liberal friends, please, make
yourself logically consistent and join
me on the other side.
- Vincent Patsy can be reached
at souljaboy@umich.edu.

a

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Keliman, Jeremy Levy, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

6
I

Rackham students need to
voice concerns, questions

Meetings are open to all. We can be contacted
regarding continuous enrollment and any other
graduate student issue at rsg@umich.edu.
Tiffany Tsang

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its own future on campus, the Daily would
- like students to voice their opinions on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU
STOP T uHiE HIKE | iP ins
Tuiton increases mustend

TO THE DAILY: Rackham
As the elected representatives of the Rack-
ham graduate student body - not specific Birth con
interest groups within that population - the
Rackham Student Government has served as more acce
a sounding board since the continuous enroll-
ment policy was first brought to our attention
in the fall of 2007 by Dean Janet Weiss. Our TO THE DAILY:
discussions concerning continuous enrollment Mar. 25 is Bacl
have been both substantive and theoretical. - a national rem
Our members hail from each of Rackham's four mation and prepa
divisions and each division has raised a litany steps toward redu
of questions and concerns. Over the course of ed pregnancies in
the last 18 months, many of these concerns have There are wom
been resolved while others have lingered. country with no
In light of these outstanding issues, we even if they do h
polled the Rackham student body to gauge engage in unprot
their understanding of the policy and their pri- because primaryI
mary concerns. One in six graduate students And sadly, about.
responded and the results are mixed. Some nant every year
students provided positive feedback on aspects result of sexual a:
of the policy, including increased access to There is, how
University services year-round (like University method of birth c
Health Service and the Central Campus Recre- women from hav
ational Building), greater resources available - emergency con
for research efforts and lower tuition. Other been available to1
respondents either didn't know anything about viders as an optio
the proposal or felt they would be adversely vors frombecomi
affected by the policy. These objections center trauma of unwan
around perceived negative effects on academic vors deserve info
quality and financial consequences for typical emergency contra
program requirements. But denial clat
These concerns highlight the need for fur- hospitals to refus
ther discussion on the proposed policy. Accord- ception under an
ingly, RSG, in cooperation with Rackham, proportion of hosi
is forming a student advisory committee to hospitals, are usin
review and address the concerns students have assault survivor:
raised. RSG's primary role in this group will Emergency contra
be to ensure that student concerns are indeed nificantly reduces
addressed before the policy's implementation, ed within 72 hour
no earlier than Fall 2010. This group welcomes By refusing emerg
participation from any and all interested grad- pitals are not only
uate students, and we're seeking approximately but are also disre,
10 PhD students to serve on this committee. deciding what is it
Information about how to join us will be All women shoL
coming soon to Rackham students' inboxes sive and equitabl
and is also on our website: http://www.umich. which hospital th
edu/-rstugov. RSG is here to serve the Rackham we must implore C
student body on continuous enrollment and contraception and
other graduate student issues. We meet every
Monday at 7:15 p.m. in the south alcove of Rack- Andrew Kravis
ham's West Reading Room on the second floor. LSA senior

trol needs to be
?ssible, for women
k Up Your Birth Control Day
inder that, with proper infor-
ration, we can take significant
ucing the number of unintend-
the United States.
en in Michigan and across the
access to birth control. And
ave access, they nonetheless
ected sex or are impregnated
methods of birth control fail.
25,000 women become preg-
in the United States as the
ssault.
ever, a safe, FDA-approved
ontrol that can prevent'these
ving unintended pregnancies
ntraception. For years, it has
hospitals and healthcare pro-
on to help prevent rape survi-
ng pregnant and suffering the
ted pregnancies. Rape survi-
ormation about and access to
aception.
:ses in many state laws allow
se women emergency contra-
y circumstances. A staggering
pitals, particularly faith-based
g these clauses to deny sexual
s emergency contraception.
aception is an option that sig-
the risk of pregnancy if start-
rs of unprotected intercourse.
ency contraception,these hos-
'jeopardizing women's health
garding women's rights while
n their best medical interests.
Auld have access to comprehen-
e medical care, regardless of
ey go to. To ensure that right,
ongress to support emergency
I "back up" our birth control.

Times are tough in Michigan. As students, many of us
have not considered the implications of the economy and
public policy on our education. But critical decisions are
now being made that will affect all of us.
Some policymakers and University administrators are
working tirelessly to invest in higher education and pro-
vide immediate relief for those of us affected by the eco-
nomic crisis. Others argue it's necessary to raise tuition
now so research can stimulate the economy in the future.
We need to be a part of the decision-making process
right now, as it happens.
Critics of immediate student financial aid who argue that
the University cannot possibly maintain research levels and
freeze tuition, fail to recognize the current, dire need for
investment in human capital. Keeping a Michigan educa-
tion affordable is critical to the state's transition to a knowl-
edge-based economy. By pricing out intelligent, qualified
and interested individuals, University policy-makers and
administrators will lose talented minds - those the Univer-
sity intends to benefit through its research programs. Our
graduates already pour outofthe state after graduation. Will
we now hinder them from even attending our university?
Greater access to higher education should be a paramount
concern for the University and the state. After all, what is
top-notch research without the best young researchers?
That is why we are calling for a tuition freeze at the
University if state appropriations for higher education
remain constant. We do so in full recognition of the chal-
lenge this creates for all parties: state government, Uni-
versity administrators, the University Board of Regents
and students. But we also do this in solidarity with other
schools and students across the state, many of whom have
already pledged support.
While we understand a tuition freeze for the 2009 fis-
cal year doesn't fix the system and appears shortsighted, it
will have an immediate short-term impact. A tuition freeze
will allow continued access to higher education for cur-
rent and potential University students, many of whom are
pinned under the economic climate. According to a Univer-
sity News Service publication, the state's higher-education
allocations as a percentage of the University's general fund
have plummeted from 78 to 23 percent since 1960, with a
concurrent tuition increase from 20 to 64 percent.
Our coalition, informally called "Stop the Hike," includes
an uncommon assortment of individuals from a variety
of organizations. The student leaders referenced in Pat-
rick O'Mahen's column (Schooling Jennifer Granholm,
02/15/2009) responded with enthusiasm and dedication to

Stop the Hike'sefforts. Othershavejoined intheweekssince.
But we have not gained enough members to accomplish our
goals. We need more student leaders, organizations, faculty
and staff to lend their support for this united cause.
We have begun by making sure this matters to you.
First, we formulated a survey (http://www.tinyurl.com/
stopthehike) to gauge where students stand on financial
aid issues - it's generated over 600 responses to date. At
the same time, we have proposed and are currently pro-
posing resolutions in the Michigan Student Assembly,
LSA Student Government, Residence Halls Association,
Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Association, Multi-
cultural Greek Council, Rackham, University of Michi-
gan Endometriosis Center and Ross Student Government
Association. For these initiatives, you can participate by
taking and forwarding the survey, joining our Stop the
Hike Facebook group or attending a meeting forthe above
student organizations. Let your peers know that tuition
affordability is something you value.
We can no longer afford to wait.
We will meet this Thursday at 8:00 p.m. in the Crofoot
Room of the Union to discuss our next steps. We encour-
age you to join us in thinking strategically about what
solutions we can bring to the complex dialogue ahead,
especially as we consider how to address our administra-
tors and policymakers.
Many have already spoken out: You want to continue
your education at the University but are facing the dif-
ficult decision about whether graduate school - or
even next semester - is financially feasible. Even if you
struggle to relate to this, chances are you know someone
who does relate. And at a time when many describe the
economic situation nationwide as the worst in 80 years
and when Michigan's economy is among the worst in the
country - with a January unemployment rate of 11.6 per-
cent, compared to a national average 7.6 percent - this
state cannot afford to price out prospective students.
So take the survey, contact us (stopthehike@umich.edu)
and make your voice heard. We need to let our community
know it is not okay to burden students with unreasonable
tuition costs, and we need to help ensure that access to the
University and all it has to offer will be sustained during
the worst economic time of our lives.
Timothy Bekkers, Aria Everts, Ashwin Lalendran,
Bhavik Lathia, Adam London, Ari Parritz, Fiona
Ruddy, Alex Serwer, Ken Srdjak, Robert Stapleton
and Neil Tambe are members of Stop the Hike.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 10, 2009 - 5

Now is the time to
import Bollywood

Royalty, unglorified

Congratulations are in order for
"Slumdog Millionaire."
After strong reviews, mirac-
ulous word-of-mouth buzz, a snappy
soundtrack and eight
Academy Awards,
it's refreshing to
see a film receive
such unanimous "
acclaim. A fairy tale
in every sense, the
film's transcendent
power was perfectly BLAKE
summed up in a GOBLE
recent Time Maga-
zine cartoon by Drew Dernavich that
depicts an analyst explaining to a client
that the end to all their worries is see-
ing"Slumdog."
And for the nay-sayers who have
been complaining about this film for
the last month ("Slumdog-mania,"
"poverty porn!"), take it easy for a sec-
ond. Know this: Danny Boyle said that
this film was supposed to be a cultural
drama, not a documentary. And accord-
ing to Entertainment Weekly, this film
was a hair's breadth away from being a
throwaway DVD until Fox decided to
foot the bill.
But for all the film's achievements, it
left me wanting more. "Slumdog" made
me want to go Bollywood. I want to
see how Anil Kapoor (the "Millionaire"
host) has over 100 movies on his resu-
me. I want to see Boyle's visual influ-
ences. And I don't think I'm alone.
"Slumdog" has given audiences a
taste of a cultural genre that feels too
ignored and under-explored by Ameri-
can audiences. American distribution
of Bollywood films accumulates some-
thing like an extra $100 million a year
for the industry, but that pales in com-
parison to a worldwide billion grossed
by the "Pirates of the Caribbean" tril-
ogy alone. Show us these movies. Now!
For the completely unaware, here
are the basics on Bollywood: Bolly-
wood is the Mumbai-based industry
for Hindi language films in India. It's
a $1.5-billion dollar industry that pro-
duces about 200 movies per year. Gen-
erally, the films have musical elements
and a taste for romance and comedy.
Bollywood seems to make films in
every genre, which is the same as Hol-
lywood. So why can't we see these
Bollywood films?
In honor of Boyle's crossover master-
work, I've decided to go looking for Bol-
lywood. But I need some help. I guess
this is a column about me admitting I'm
ignorant about this stuff. That's why I
have two pleas.

My first goes out to the big guys.
Paramount, Columbia, Universal and
all the rest, I hope someone passes
this along. I know I'm not the only one
yearning for this, but please, please
distribute some Bollywood movies in
the U.S. And I'm not talking special
film prints for theme nights or rinky-
dink joints in L.A. I want Bollywood to
come to Midwestern multiplexes and
drive-in theaters. Don't just cop out
and try to rehash "Slumdog," which
isn't actually a true Bollywood film,
and don't put Hugh Jackman and Julia
Roberts in an Indian-themed romance
this fall. Just bring unadulterated Bol-
lywood to the U.S.
It can't be that expensive to pick up
the rights to some of these movies. Not
sure what to buy? Simply look at an
amazon.com list. Ever heard of "Veer
Zara" or "Lagaan - Once Upon a Time
in India"? Me neither. But I want to see
them. These films are generally posi-
Selling India's
Hollywood here.
tive and upbeat, vibes that have been
rewarded at box offices everywhere
recently. Look how happy "Paul Blart:
Mall Cop" and the "Madea" films were
and how much they earned.
Please bring Bollywood to the
Showcase Cinemas. If you market it,
we will come.
As for my other demand, I have a
favor to ask to anyone that reads this
column. It seems that there's only one
course I could find in the LSA guide
on Indian film. And I'm not currently
enrolled in it. It's a bummer, too, seeing
as I really want to watch these movies
and I have no idea where to start.
With that, I'd like to ask if I can
borrow Bollywood movies from some-
one. Well, let me rephrase that - does
anyone have any movie suggestions?
A good friend recommended that I
should watch films like "Mr. and Mrs.
Iyer," "Phoonk" and "Mitr, My Friend."
Awesome start, butthere's so much
more to see. Are these films any good? I
don't know. But I intend to find out. I've
alreadyhad my horror, 70's, musical,
gansgster, noir and screwball comedy
phases. Now is the time to go Bollywood.
- Goble really wants to get into your
movie collection. E-mail him at bgoblue@
umich.edu if you have films to lend.

Prolific folkie Will Oldham
delivers another average
but intriguing album
By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
Sneaking suspicions abound: Will Oldham
could be a machine - some sort of emotive,
scraggly-bearded, hipster-
built robot assembled to
write songs with maximum *
efficiency.
Since reinventing his Bonnie
musical career under the "Prince"
name Bonnie "Prince" B
Billy in 1999, Oldham has
been able to outdo even Beware
the likes of Ryan Adams Drag City/Palace
in terms of sheer output
with over 11 albums in the
last eight years. He has become (more or
less) the Lil Wayne of Kentuckian folk-rock.
Even more impressively, he's maintained a
hardy resistance to any of the half-assed-
ness that always besets the hyper-prolific.
Sometimes, it's more comfortable to label
Oldham-type anomalies "inhuman" and
wait for a crash.
Even still, the emotional power and musi-
cal nuance in any "Prince" Billy album is evi-
dence thathe's allhuman.Unsurprisingly,his
newest effort Beware is full of lyrical proof.
Oldham's broad, thoughtful observations
affirm he's more aware than most - on "You
Can't Hurt Me Now," he remarks "I know
everyone has the happiness I have / That's
ARTS IN BRIEF

the thing about happiness you can hold."
A large part of Beware's success lies in
Oldham's ability to engage listeners from all
angles, like when he moves effortlessly from
a couplet-dropping sage in "You Can't Hurt
Me Now" to a jocular, self-revealing buddy in
the ultimately sad "You Don't Love Me." In
the latter, he playfully vents about a loveless
relationship: "You say you like my eyes only
or just the way I giggle / Sometimes you like
the smell of me or how my belly jiggles / But
you don't love me." The delivery changes but
the sincerity is constant.
Musically, there's nothing too flashy about
Beware - but with "Prince" Billy releases,
there never has to be. The organic produc-
tion techniques and stripped-down arrange-
ments act on their own to enhance the
poignant heart-on-sleeve aesthetic. "There
Is Something I Have to Say" gets down to
the bare essentials with just Oldham's sig-
nature croon and a lone guitar. Despite the
lack of frills, it's hard not to get caught up in
the track's affecting relationship elegy. Even
when strings, lap-steel guitar or percussion
pop up in the mix (as they often do), the gen-
eral musical ambiance remains subdued.
In Beware, restraint is a powerful and oft-
employed tool.
The country ballad "My Life's Work"
allows Oldham to reveal that his usually
understated voice has an almost diva-like
vigor. The track is slow to build, but when
the song bursts from laid-back verse to ach-
ing chorus, any doubts about Oldham's vocal
strength are erased.
Still, truly transcendent moments like that
are alltoo rare. There are several spots where
some pizazz is sorely needed. The heart-

felt yet monotonous "Heart's Arms" evokes
the pace and frustration of wading through
quicksand. "I Don't Belong to Anyone" is
a plain bore that mainly rests on a melody
lifted from "Que Sera, Sera." If not for the
overall lyrical eloquence, listening to a lot of
Beware would be a trying experience.
Maybe coming a bit too late, the finale
"Afraid Ain't Me" is arguably the album's
strongest track. With exotic woodwinds and
Latin-esque percussion, it's a pleasantly sur-
prising turn for the largely country-western
album. The change of pace is seamless and
effective, and it's a little confusing why Old-
ham didn't venture off thebeaten path a little
more on his newest effort. He's clearly gifted
enough to do so.
Beware is a solid release but generally
lacks the creative spark to compete with the
best of "Prince" Billy's catalog. It's not quite
a misstep, but certainly a slight malfunction.
Oldham might be in need of a recharge.

TV Review
Monkeying around
"Dark Days In Monkey City"
Tuesdays at 10 p.m.
Animal Planet
Wisely focusing on a member
of the simian kingdom that is not
the overly-studied chimpanzee,
"Dark Days in Monkey City" is
a 13-part miniseries telling the
story of two warring monkey
tribes and their struggles to
claim power and land. The plot,
presented in the style of a grand
epic, explores tales of romance,
abandonment, hatred and
betrayal among primate com-
moners and royals alike.
"Dark Days" is a drastic depar-
ture from a typical animal-cen-
tered program - its extensive
storyline is composed by comic

writers Joe Kelley ("Justice
League of America") and Joe
Casey ("Uncanny X-Men") and
it spotlights several characters,
which creates a format more
like an hour-long drama than a
nature documentary.
The material presented is also
far darker than most of Animal
Planet's offerings. Opening and
closing credits adorned with
droplets of blood show illustrate
violence is a major component of
the show.The menacingvoiceover
of John Rhys-Davies ("Raiders
of the Lost Ark") adds an almost
absurd amount of drama to a
show about, well, monkeys.
While the premise is prom-
ising and the visuals are
breathtaking, the storyline
is pedestrian. Elements
rehashed from all sorts of
television dramas are vis-
ible all over "Dark Days."
The plot is overplayed,

as it focuses primarily on illicit
romances and long-held grudges
between warring monkey fami-
lies. The large number of char-
acters means just a single trait
is assigned to each - Portia is an
outsider and Hector is a young
upstart looking to overthrow
the king. This one-dimensional-
ity means that each character is
static and unmemorable.
While not without its flaws,
"Dark Days" is a compelling
experiment that attempts to
redefine animal-centered real-
ity programming. Once it hits
its stride, it could serve as the
bridge to scripted shows that
Animal Planet needs.

Second Annual
Gramlich SHOWCASE
of Student Work
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2009
4:00 - 6:oo PM
Joan and Sanford Weill Hall, Is and 2"d floors, 735 S. State St., Ann Arbor, MI 48109.
Poster Session. Free and open to the public. Refreshments served.
Join us as we highlight and celebrate the intellectual achievements of graduate and undergraduate students
at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.
Ford School faculty have nominated students for inclusion from among the best work produced at the
school this year. The posters on display will represent a wide range of student work: from local issues to
foreign policy, from social welfare policy to health care reform, from undergraduate work to dissertation
research. Students will be on hand to describe their projects and answer questions.
This annual event is named for long-time U-M faculty member and former Federal Reserve Board Governor
Ned Gramlich, as a tribute to his belief in and commitment to the value of a public policy education.
s c7
Details: www.fordschool.umich.edu or 734-615-3893. h,,

Wednesday, March 11th
International Center, Rm 9
Congrats Michigan! A top Peace Corps college
800.424.8580 1www.peacecorps.gov

I of Public Policy
vOF MICHIGAN'

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
and...mOre classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded its
2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.A
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses.

The Economics and Psychology
of Inequality and Human Development

James J. Heckman
Henry Schultz Distinguished Service Professor of Economics,
University of Chicago, and recipient of the 2000 Nobel Prize
in Economics

Sponsors: National Poverty Center, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy;
Harris School of Public Policy Studies, University of Chicago;
The Panel Study of Income Dynamics


0

6 - Tuesday, March 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

1

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
f or rent
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! I & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurmished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 &c 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
*AVAIL SEPT 1ST 2009. 2 bdnn
house on State St across from Yost
arena. Furn, free pkg, wshr/dryer, dish-
washer. Signing bonus. Call now for
immed showing 734-434-6356.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, updated, w/
prkg., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great locatin,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

i

611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
Upscale 5 bedroom
apartments@ 1 I
Church! T!ketj are
newt constructed5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, w/a all
f/7e atest andgreatest
amcenitics, Ice a

coupon for every new tour!!!w
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www. u niversitytowers-m i. com
University
4 ELEVEN LOFTS - win FREE
HOUSING for a year. - Just tour our
model at 400 E.Washington (@l Divi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter. Call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, Idry, prkg, fireplace,
lardwoord floors, jactzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333aool.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsoiwhitemantagemsent.com
5 BDRM HSE $2950, Incl. all utilities,
free Idry., prkg., living/dining room, 2
kitch., 2 bath, 2 studies. 734-973-2349.
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just ofi Packard.
Less than 7 min, walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40' fiat screen tv, and inter-
net. $27001/to. 734-320-1126.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3000 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Bwn. State and 5th.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmadproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
IiAI
WilsonWhite
MA/A: MEfl'

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Fumished, heat & vater included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Studenst Housing
761-8000 primesh.cotn
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Ef., I1hdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $15,000
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
=$16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
DISSATISFIED WITH WHAT you
seen already? Looking for something
nicer? Come check out our great sunny
two bedrooms. Fully furnished, heat,
water and parking included some w/
wireless Internet!
www.varsitymanagement.comw
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com

FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagemenl.com for a list of
available properties.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
FA LL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500or
www.mwichcomrealty.com for details.
EHD.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime
spot. Heat and waler il. $1799/ m.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
TWO 7 BDeM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for full. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
WE HAVE ALL yuur housing needs
from studios toi hdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
rUE EBDRM.&E.apTim
SEPT. 20099
COPI PROPERTIES
7-4-w63560 J
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms .
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side H ome) $1795
911 Oakland (Farmshed) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms.
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard(Packard and Slate) $2995
816 I Pr ReOElTEd Sichn
$2995
1814 Vaughn: (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, I, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and name May rates are now
negotiable ton! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwitemanagement.cnm
catmpusdfwilsunwhitemanagement.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 s. Univerity Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Interet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesaeom
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, g moden kitchen, ensured
poret & mtch more. 741-9300.
www.annarhorapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.anarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2BdrtN.
l HeatWater/Parking6-499
www.PAAro 996-4992.n

LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
GET $500 OFF ALLREMAINING
MAY LEASES!
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
PICTURE THIS...FREE 42" Flat
Screen yours to keep! Sign today, 909
Church "TheAbbey". Limited Time-
Offer expires Friday March 20th-Call
for details. 734-761-8000. primesh.com
*Certain conditions apply
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space,or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. 'alk-in closets. Free
^^^~,a~~~ ^~~ A ^ t^^ M-

I
i
g

0

1 & 2 Bdow. turn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catserine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS!
Kerrytown or Geddes Rd. Large apts.
great for 3 - 5 people! Parking in-
cluded. (734) 668-1100.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2240;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(*At most locations)
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from ding.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.
thwe a the p,
Med andCOs
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.7419300
wwwnnarborapartments.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, March 10, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ECONOMY GOT YOU down? Well,
get down with Varsity's low rental
rates! 2 bdrm apts starting at $825/mo
at 801 W. Madison! $1295 at 917
Packard and 521 Walnut! One bdrm
by the business school for $925!
www.varsitymanagement.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail, for $25/wno. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagesnenscom

ACROSS 2 Not at all 34 Pons
1 Soaks (up), as good-humored 35 Chri
with a paper 3 Wash. Huskies' 3 Get 
towel . conf. 37 Pret
5 Dept. of Labor 4 Prod 38 Mov
division. 5 Ph.D. candidate's 41 The
9 Legislative hurdle Stat
bigwigs 6 Serious in 20
14 "That's a _1": 7 Website offering 42 GiaN
director's cry streaming TV #4
15 Shellacking video 44 Mes
16 Air traveler's 8 "Up and _1" 45 Tips
choice 9 Communion
17 Like Pollyanna's symbols ANS9
optimism 10 Second word of
19 Parade sight the song 'The M E A
20 Mulpurpuse 5uund ul Masit' A C L
nintment 11 Guarantned R 0 P
22 Poetic "before" 12It may be
23 Ron.'s upeech tullowed by a napSHE
24 Like a "fauxlex" 13 Collector's goal C A T
watch 18 Prayer beads
26 Rules of sentence 21 __Bartlet, "The 0 N C
structure West Wing" 0 0 H
28 Cloings president T I A
30 Felipe'ssuncle 25Animal housing S
31 Syracuse 27 Fuss A R K
University team 28 Wading bird n E E
33 Office note 29 Cinematic A C T
341975 #1 hit for clownfish S
Labelle 32 The Darlings' dog S 1 C
31 Big Island punt 33 "Buddenbrooks" ETH
39 Manyan e-lib unonelist Thoma xworded
40 Sick 1 2 3 4 s5
41 Mackintosh, e.g.
43 Old Roman 14 15
Republic leader
47 Grommet's 1a
cousin us
49 Loud laugh
50 Imitate 22 23
51 Sanctuaries for
flora 25 27
551Epnymous 31, 3
mathematician
Karl 34 s
56 Seatbelt, for one
57 French farewell us 39
58 _,amcunt:er et s
59 Common sonata us
finale 47 4
60 Winter Palace
reuidents 51 52
61 But'opposite
62 Once, long ago 55 s
DOWN
1 Processesduring s e1
checkout, as a
credit card By Neville L. Fogarty
(c)2009'ribune Media Services, Inc.

id floaters 46 Anne Rice
stian chant vampire
used (to) 48 Surgery beam
ty woman 49 Like some easy
e it questions
next United 52 Mathtest
es one will be question, briefly
i10 53 Nevada gambling
t who wore mecca
54100-yard dash,
sinh e.g.
over 55 Hood's gun
WER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
D W A S P F A CE S
_U A R IT E ( C H A T
E A D 01P E S T O R E
Q I E D V E H I C IL E
CA R S R E X O K E D
E B O A D IS B A R
R U B A D U B L T-E
>M IN A R SD ICED
1S E A T J O C K E Y
:P E R S B U N K
HI V D E A L A M E A L
R E A X L E A L L Y
ituoraotcomT 0/3/095
a s.1f 11 12 13
,5
24 25
43 44 45 a
49 So
52

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am One business day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per line forthetfirst issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for details * Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) 9 All ads must be prepaid unless prior bling privileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
I day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 Furnitre
060 -For Pert

n80 -

2 lines 8.60 1.9C
3 lines 12.90 19.3.
4lines 17.20 2/.8C
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviation
TMD for failure to publish an advertisement 1
shall be limited to publishing in a subsquer
wil be responsble for classified advertisem
Rates: All changes shown on the open rate
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full

50 25.80 090-
25 38.70 093-
00 51.60 095-
100-
120-

- Sut/et
- Services
- Help Wanted
- Summer Employment
- Chid Care
- Tickets & Travel
- Announcements
- Websites

39.4C

as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
>r any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
nt errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
Sines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
by 11:30 am on originally sch ed ending date. Refunds:
ion deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
t to editing and approval u We do not pubish advertisementstfor
D reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to

123

125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entert,
150 - Personal
160 -Pets

nment

'rtisers may cancel an ad before publicat
n published, Refusal: All ads are subjec
e of tickets at more than face value. TM
ptin advertisin.

reSah
acce

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

STEM CELLS
5 From Page 1
because it meant the group's efforts
to overturn the ban were worth it.
But, he added, the real work of
discovering cures has just begun.
"It's great that we're finally
here, but there's a lot left to be
done, and people should know
that cures aren't going to be here
tomorrow," Krantz said. "We're
eight years behind other countries
in the world, but it's finally time
the United States can get on board
with the rest of the world in find-
ing cures with stem cell research."
After hearing about yesterday's
announcement, Zachary Stangebye,
vice president of the University's
chapter of Students for Life, wrote
in an e-mail statement that the gov-
ernment shouldn't "condone this
kind of research, let alone fund it."
"Whether the embryos will be
adopted or even discarded is irrel-
evant; we must not kill them," he
wrote. "Our government was cor-
rect in refusing to fund such barbar-
ic research, and the recent repeal of
the ban is highly unethical."
WILLIAMS
From Page 1
The members of SHOUT
then collect the nominations
and give the award based on
the number and content of the
nominations.
The nomination form asks for
the name of the professor and a
short answer description of why
the nominated professor should
S be given the opportunity to
recite an "ideal last lecture."
In most cases, the "last lec-
ture" given by the honored pro-
fessor is a metaphorical.
But in Williams' case, it will
truly be his last lecture as a Uni-
versity of Michigan professor,
giving him a chance to leave
his final stamp on an illustrious
career at the University.
Williams' lastlecture andthe
presentation of the award will
be on April 21st at the Rackham
Graduate School at 7 p.m.

Stangebye also wrote that his
organization is not "anti-science,"
and 'supports what they consider
to be "ethical practices of science
and support research for cures
that could save lives."
He added: "Butwe mustnotpur-
sue such serendipitous research at
the cost of human lives."
Obama's announcement was
given on the same day that the
University officially declared the
opening of the new A. Alfred Taub-
man Medical Research Institute
Consortium for Stem Cell Thera-
pies - a facility for scientists to
develop new stem cell lines.
Gary Smith, director of the
Reproductive Sciences Program, it
was "serendipitous" that Obama's
announcement and the consortium's
opening occurred on the same day.
He said that even ifObamawould not
have lifted the restrictions, stem cell
researchers at the University were
preparedto open the consortium.
"We already decided that we
would move forward with this
University-supported program,
but in essence, the movement of
the program and the generating of
these new stem cells now at least

can be available for others to uti-
lize," Smith said.
Obama's decision gives scientists
access to more than the 21 federally
approved stem cell lines designated
for research by George Bush. One
of the goals of the University's
consortium is to develop new
embryonic stem cell lines for spe-
cific diseases.
"(We will) utilize those lines to
investigate what are some of the
causes, what are some of the conse-
quences, what's some of the biology
of those embryonic stem cell lines
and then hopefully,inthe future, be
able to utilize some of those lines to
learn about therapies," Smith said.
Morrison said the University
will receive millions of dollars in
private donations in addition to
the federal funds given to the Uni-
versity as a result of the stimulus
package and President Obama's
announcement. He added that with
the new opportunities in the field,
the University plans on hiring one
or two more embryonic stem cell
researchers.
Similar to Dingell, Morrison
said the passage of Proposal 2 in
Michigan was critical for the Uni-

versity to be able to participate in
the exciting possibilities createdby
Obama's announcement.
"PresidentObama,partlythrough
the stimulus package, wants to
invest millions of dollars in new
embryonic stem cell research, and
if we had not passed Proposal 2, we
wouldn't be able to participate with
other states," Morrison said. "But as
a result of having passed Proposal
2, millions of dollars in new federal
funding will come to the University
of Michigan."
One major criticism from oppo-
nents of Proposal 2 was that there
would be no funds to support stem
cell research even if the proposal
passed.
Morrison said Obama's announce-
ment and the opening of the consor-
tium proves opponents were wrong
asthefederalgovernment and private
donors are now investing millions of
dollars for research atthe University.
This group includes Alfred A. Taub-
man, who will be making a substan-
tial donation to support the work of
the consortium.
- The Associated Press
contributed to this report.

CANCER
From Page 1
ly resistant to chemotherapy and
radiation," Diane Simeone, director
of the Multidisciplinary Pancre-
atic Cancer Clinic, wrote in a press
release. "By targeting this gene, we
may be able to make cancer cells
more sensitive to the therapies we
already have in hand."
The researchers studied the effects
of the gene by injecting tumor cells
intomice.Onegroup ofmicereceived
cells where ATDC was expressed
while the other group received those
where it was suppressed.
Tumors grew on all the mice that
were injected with ATDC-expressed
cells. In the group where the gene
was not expressed, there was no sig-
nificant tumor growth after 60 days.
The American Cancer Society
estimates that 37,680 Americans
will be diagnosed with pancre-
atic cancer this year, with roughly
34,000 fatalities.
PROGRAM
From Page 1
direct Blood Battle, a competition
that pits the University of Michigan
against Ohio State University to see
which school can donate more pints
of blood. Diamond started planning
Good Sports in October.
Diamond said he hopes to part-
ner with a Detroit after-school
program and help kids attend
Michigan athletic events. While he
hasn't narrowed down his target
organization yet, Diamond is excit-
ed about the possibilities.
He said he wanted sports to play
a major part in the organization
because sports help to bring together
people with diverse backgrounds.
"Sports, at least for me, gave me
the great ability to have a better edu-
cation at a school like Michigan,"

Tuesday, March 10, 2009 - 7'
But Simeone said in a phone
interview that she hopes the clinic's
research could change that, and
plans to start implementing new
therapies at the clinic within the
next five years.
The researchers at the clinic
are focusing on two approaches of
developing new therapies for pan"
creatic cancer, Simeone said. The.
first would be to develop a dru
that would inhibit the expression
of ATDC. They could also target
the gene without a drug by using a
method called nanopartical deliv-
ery to treat patients.
Simeone said they have been
researching this particular gene since
2002. Although she said she is opti-
mistic about the possibilities, she was
hesitant to say how important this
breakthrough will be inthe long run.
"I think there are a lot of steps
forward that we have thought have-
been significant," she said. "Only
time will tell as to how criticaa~
role this particular protein plays i
pancreatic cancer."
Diamond said. "So maybe througha-
focus atsports, they can bettertheir
lives. That's the ultimate goal."
Diamond said Good Sports is.
hosting a dodgeball tournament to
kick off the fundraising on March'
28 at the Intramural Building;-
The event will feature five-person
teams that can participate for $5
per person. Teams can sign up by
e-mailing jdiamon@umich.edu.
"Our goal is to get about 20 to 25
teams," he said. "This might be the
only event where we ask for more
than a dollar."
Diamond said he ultimately hopes
that the University will be willing to
pitch in to help Good Sports.
"Everyone can be a good sport,
just by doing a small thing. Giving a
handshake or reaching out a hand,"
he said. "This is giving donations
or giving time. This is just another
way of being a good sport."


CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
cern," said Derezinski.
Nationally, IWP was created in
1999 by Veterans for Peace (VFP),
Inc. - a national veterans peace
and justice organization based in
St. Louis.
The project was originally
founded by VFP members to
improve the living conditions of
Iraqis and to inform Americans
about the devastating effects a
decade of U.S. sanctions had on
the citizens of Iraq, according to
the IWP website.
Russello said that the living
conditions in Iraq are so difficult
that only one in three Iraqis has
access to clean water.
According to IWP Chair Art
Dorland, the organization began
by sending delegations to repair
water treatment plants in Iraq.
The group has also partnered with
members of the Life for Relief &

Development, an Islamic-Amer-
ican charity headquartered in
Southfield, Mich.
However, Dorland said the IWP
changed its plan two years ago.
Instead of sending people to Iraq,
the organization now sends eight
gallon per minute water treatment
units to Iraqihospitals and schools.
"We made that change because
we were not attracting as much
funding and it requires a large
commitment to fund these water
plants," Dorland said. "Now we
don't have to make as big of a com-
mitment for as much funding."
Each water treatment unit costs
about $1,500 to send, including
extra parts and transportation fees.
On one side of the water treat-
ment unit, the water is filtered to
remove sediments and improve
taste. The water is then sterilized
with an ultraviolet light to prevent
any viruses or other organisms
from reproducing.
"It doesn't kill the organism,
it makes them sterile." Dorland

explained. "The viruses are only
dangerous when they get into your
system and they multiply."
So far, the IWP has sent about
30 water treatment units to Iraq.
Dorland estimatedthatthe proj-
ect has raised between $300,000
and $400,000 since its outset.
Michigan Peaceworks has
been affiliated with IWP since
2008 and has raised about $960 -
almost enough to fund one water
treatment unit.
Russello said although the col-
laboration doesn't have a specific
amount of water treatment units it
would like to send, the ideal num-
ber would be 50 to 70 over the next
few years. In addition, both Rus-
sello and Dorland agreed that the
team might like to expand to other
countries in need if the resources
were available.
"There are a lot of countries
that really need help right now,
such as Sudan and Afghanistan,"
Russello said. "It's something we
might consider in the future."


the michigan daily

3 BDR
bath, ba
10 dry. Fri
back. C
Hot
10

Offeriq
of your
of
OPPE
still ha
for Fal
inge
4 Bedro
816 Broc
1803 Hi
506 W i
5 Bedro
401 La
bath. $2
 401 La
bath. $2
6 Bedro
416 Ha
$3500 +
126 Hill,
1803 Hi
All util.
203 Koc
Please
www op
TIRED
apartme
Manage
with h
houses
agents a
place to
White
W
5 min. w
** PEP
sublet. H
ppl. Cal
FREE
bedro
.WI

M HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1 MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
sement, wshr./dryer, free laun- bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv scl.
idges, front porch & deck in fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
all 248-214-8708! cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St. h lpW anted
(734) 663-1919
www.oldtownrealty.net
uses Available for Fall 2009 0
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House !!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
428 Hamilton ue Pl. $4 s tial, Age 18+ ok. No -9p. necessary,
421 amilon P. $4400 training provided. 100-965-6520 a 125.
7 Bedroom Houses SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
406 B. Jefferson $3,850 GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
334 Caherine $3,850 hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
6 Bedroom House exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
952 Greenwood $3,600 Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
(Mayor Fall Lease)
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
4 Bedroom Houses Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
1116 Packard $2,300 individuals for our Manager Develop-
942 Woodlawn $2,060 ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
624 Church $2,995 hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
tg a $500.00 gift card to a store to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
'choice with every signed lease
f these available houses!!
ANN ARBOR RECONSTRUCTION-
IST Havurah seeks teacher for our Sun-
ENHEIMER PROPERTIES day morning religious school for 2009-
houses and large aps. for rent 2010 academic yr. Eap. with children,
'09. Offering $500-$1000 sign- knowledge of Hebrew required. Send
onus for available properties! resumetoteacherjob@aarecon.org
okwuod. $2700 + util.
llSt 1.5 bath. $2650 Util. n EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
ri iams. 2 bath. $2100 + util. needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
ims Unth + being a mysteryashopper. No experi-
wrne .Kerlon ence required. Cull 1-800-722-4791.
wwrence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2 9
875 + electric.
wrence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2 FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
950 + gas and electric. +/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
lm pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
milton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8. telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
util.
'St. 2 bath. $3100 + util. GET PAID CASH for taking online
ll St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath. surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
paid. May Lease. $3300
Ih. 2 bath. $2450 + util. INDOOR WATER PARK and/or
Contact 734-995-5575 or Summer Outdoor Lifeguard: Private
ppenheimerproperties.com club accepting applications for life-
guard and swim instructor positions.
OF SEARCHING for your Experienceprferredandlifeguard certi-
at or house? Wilson White ficalions must by current. Free member-
ment offers One Stop Shopping ship included. Apply at Liberty
undreds of apartments and Arbor Phon, Jan at 5Liberty, Ann
on Central Campus. Our leasing for additional information.
re ready to help you the perfect
call home on campus. Wilson
Management 734-995-9200 MICHIGAN MENS SOCCER is now
lsonwhitemanagement.com hiring Managers! Be a part of Michi-
gan Athletics. For more info email:
WW.800FULLER.COM grassie@umich.edu
(734) 769-7520
bdrm., modern, clean, quiet ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
talk, MED, DENT, and Campus migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcriptto cambedu@aol.com
RFECT SPRING/SUMMER PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
Hill & Church, lots of prkg., 5-7 experiment on simple perceptual judg-
I for more info 810-772-9691. ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
SUBLET FINDER. studio-3 18+, a native English speaker, and have
ooms; 19 locations to choose vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
from. (734) 741-9300 HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
vw.annarborapartments.net nkalaida@med.umich.edu

PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASSIS-
TANT. 10-20 hrs./wk. Track tasks and
project progress. Develop meeting
agendas and notes. Write reports and
communicate with project stakehold-
ers. Self-starter, organized, computer
experience (mac), great written and ver-
bal communications skills. Please send
letter and resume to:
pm-asst@umich.edu
TUTOR IN PYTHON computer pro-
gramming for local 9th grade student.
Ability to also tutor Math and/or Latin
a plus, but not required.$20/hour. Con-
tact Jeannette or Doug at(734)662-3560.
WANTED SEASONAL
Grill/Banquet/ Beverage Cart Servers,
Pro Shop Workers, Grounds Crew
Workers. Stonebridge Golf Club, A2
734-429-8383
www.stonebridgegolfclub.net

MAKE MONEY AND provide others
with better health by starting your own
business. Please call 800-934-8534 for
more information.
SRie ep IOyme.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

For Wednesday, March 11, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
This is a marvelous day for your sign!
All group activities and relationships
with friends and even casual acquain-
tances wilt be super optimistic and
upbeat. Yay, me!
'[AURUS
(April20 to May 20)
Solitude in beautiful surroundings will
please you today. If you work privately
on a plan, it could promote your career
or your reputation in the community in a
positive way.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
It's a popular day for you! Enjoy the
company of people from different back-
grounds and other countries. The people
you meet now can expand your horizons
in some way.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Romance with your boss or with
someone older or richer could begin
today. You might get a raise or praise.
You certainly make a great impression
on others today!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Accept travel opportunities or chances
to get further training or education.
Similarly, publishing, the media, medi-
cine and the law are lucky for you today.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Gifts and goodies can come your way
today. Inheritances, advantages and
favors aswell as indirect benefit through
partners are on the menu. Keep your
pockets open!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a lovely day to schmooze with
others, especially partners and close
friends. People are in a positive frame of
mind. Laughter comes easily.

mvery ofuchignIsutef omplex daive Matter
and iety of women in Physics
Public Lecture
High - Temperature Superconductivity:
From Broken Symmetries to The Power Grid.
Laura H. Greene
Swanlund Professor of Physics
University of Illinois

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Co-workers are supportive today. This
is an excellent day at work in many
ways. Work-related travel or opportuni-
ties with publishing or with foreign com-
panies look very good.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 2210o Dec. 21)
This is a wonderful day for romance,
parties, fun, the arts, playful activities
with children and sports. The bottom
line is simply this: Get out and enjoy
yourself
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Do something to decorate where you
live today. Real estate is favored. Buy
something beautiful for your home or
your family.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
You can make money through com-
munication today. It's an excellent day
for selling, writing, teaching, acting and
also for those of you who drive for a liv-
ing.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
This is an excellent day for business
and commerce. All things connected
with cash flow and finances look great.
Shopping could be profitable for you.
Whatever you purchase (especially art)
could increase in value.
YOU BORN TODAY You're modern,
current and, in fact, often ahead of your
time. Many of you are self-employed
and independent. You have excellent
taste; you also have an ability to keep
your finger on the pulse of the public.
You work hard to get what you want;
most of you are quite ambitious. Take
time in the year ahead to learn something
important. Your rewards will soon fol-
low.
Birthdate of: Sam Donaldson, journal-
ist; Douglas Adams, author; Alex
Kingston, actress.

Tuesday, March 1WIi, 2009
340 West Hall
1085 S University Ave
Ann Arbor MI48109
4:00PM - 5:00PM
Refres.hments prior to Ite lecture
For more information visit:
httpV/cscs.umich.edu/
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
Corona/Dos Equis Spocials All Night
$.2 Tpeuif ui~e Voka I
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
Ja or Ramh S oeaBS 10t 10 6os
310AMayuar St, 734,9IN10'- ~a I Ie#o tA4 A4yowd PAi4 Stkwe

C 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8 - Tuesday, March 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


0

Curry is the smart and
safe choice for Lions
INDIANAPOLIS - unit that ranked dead last in scor- backed upby a strong performance
F orget Georgia's Matt ing defense and yards allowed. He's at the Combine. He ran a 4.56 sec-
Stafford or Baylor's Jason versatile and has the ability to play ond forty-yard dash, fastest among
Smith. The Detroit Lions any of the three linebacker posi- linebackers, and tied for the highest
should select Wake Forest senior tions. If Detroit plugged him in next verticalijump for linebackers at 37.0
linebacker Aaron Curry with the to Sims, it would have a solid tan- inches. He also had 25 reps of 225
No. 1 pick of the 2009 NFL draft. dem in the middle of the defense. pounds on the bench press.
Draft experts are clamoring for And whenit comes to turning His athleticism and character
the Lions to fix around bad teams, Curry's been jump off the page when you evalu-
their franchise TIM there before. ate him, but his overall intangibles
with a big left ROHAN "In my career playing football are what make him the best pick
tackle or a On the NFL Draft high school and in college, I've for the Detroit Lions.
strong-armed entered programs where things If the Lions select him, they'll
quarterback, but neither would weren't going so well at the time, know exactly what they are get-
even come close to addressing all of and things have always man- ting, and that's something Detroit
Detroit's weaknesses. Curry can't aged to switch around when I got needs desperately.
either - one player can't plug all there," Curry said. "And (my teams And Curry has got a message for
of the Lions' holes - but drafting have) always been able to handle the Lions management, too.
Curry wouldbe a great start. adversity of people saying we "I want (NFL teams) to know
Quarterbacks are a risky invest- weren'tgoingto be good because that my personality and my char-
ment. No matter how talented they of a previous season." acter is contagious," Curry said.
are, there is always the likelihood Curry's impact on Detroit would "I'm a hard worker on and off the
of beinga bust. And the Lions can go beyond the field. His personal- field ... They realize that when
find a left tackle with the 20th ity alone shows the capability of Aaron Curry steps in the weight
selection in the first round. This turning around a dark decade for room he's serious, he's working
year's class of tackles is deep, so the Lions. Throughout his press hard he's going to go until the
there will be some good talent left. conference at the NFL Combine, whistle blows.
Curry, at almost 6-foot-2 inch, Curry had a smile stamped on "You're going to have to drag
254-pounds, is the safest bet in the his face. But that upbeat attitude Aaron Curry out of the weight
draft. Not only is he a great player, almost turned to tears when he room. You're going to have to drag
but he is also has the kind of char- was questioned about the adversity Aaron Curry off the practice field,
acter the Lions need. It doesn't he had faced in his life. out of the film room. You're going
hurt that he likes Detroit, either. After his sophomore season at to (have to) tell Curry to chill out
"As far as Detroit No. 1, it would Wake Forest, Curry came home on some community service ... it's
be a dream come true," Curry said from school to find that his mother just the type of person I am."
at the NFL Combine on Feb. 21 in had been evicted from their home. The Lions have a lot of holes
Indianapolis. "If I could pick, sure, He ended up staying with a friend to fill, but they could start build-
I would want to go No.1 overall. It forthe summer while his family ing their franchise back up with a
would justbe a great feeling to go was homeless, and he said his work rock-solid pick in Curry.
out to Detroit and play alongside ethic has been shaped by the event.
(Detroit linebacker) Ernie Sims. "I realized I had to do some-
(It) would be amazing, being that thing," Curry said. "And football ONLINE:
I watched him play in the ACC as was it. ... Those are the moments CCHA TOURNEY
a freshman, and I always admired that you think about in the fourth
his style of play." quarter when there's a play that BREAKDOWN
Lastyear, Currytallied 101 total needs tobe made, and you know
tackles, two sacks and an intercep- you have the opportunity to pro- Daily hockey writer
tion for Wake Forest en route to vide for your family for the rest of Chris Meszaros
winning the Butkus award, given their lives." the rest of this
to the nation's top linebacker. His Curry had the opportunity after predicts
senior year statistics mirrored his his junior year to leave college weekend's
junior season and were slightly bet- early, go to the NFL and support tournament games.
ter than in his sophomore season. his family. But he made what he
Inserting him into a defense said was a tough decision to stay in http://www.
without many solid, consistent or college and improve his game. ' michigandal ly.com
name-brand players will improve a His collegiate success was

Beilein doesn't think Blue
is a lock for Big Dance yet

ByJASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
John Beilein knows his team's
work isn't finished.
The Michigan men's basketball
coach also refuses to speculate
about how much
more it will take NOTEBOOK
for the Wolver-
ines to make their first tournament
appearance in more than 10 years.
But in his press conference yes-
terday, he gave some hints on how
he thinks the NCAA Tournament
selection committee should evalu-
ate tournament-worthy teams.
"I know, traditionally, teams that
have as many wins in the top-50
wins, in the top-100 wins, things like
that, and finish strong, have done
well as far as selection," Beilein said.
Beilein was slyly pleading Michi-
gan's case.
According to ESPN, the Wolver-
ines have the 10th-best strength of
schedule and have beaten six top-50
RPI teams and 10 top-100 RPI teams.
They have also finished strong, win-
ning four of their last six games.
Beilein would prefer not to leave
anything to chance by winning the
Big Ten Tournament and earning
the conference's automatic bid.
But he also knows how difficult
that will be.
The seventh-seeded Wolverines
open the Big Ten tournament against
No.10 seed Iowa on Thursday.
A loss would put their tourna-
ment hopes in jeopardy. A win
would push Michigan one step clos-
er to Selection Sunday.
"You cannot count on anything,"
Beilein said. "You have to go in there
and say, 'Listen, all these games are
very important.' ... You are the only
one that can control your destiny
right now. There are so many other
things that are going on that are out
of your control."
MVP?: Sophomore forward
Manny Harris may have stolen the
spotlight this season, but junior
forward DeShawn Sims has made
a strong case to be Michigan's most
valuable player.
Harris leads the team in points

6

Junior DeShawn Sims has come up big in Michigan's marquee games this season.

and assists per game. But Sims has
been the go-to player in all of the
Wolverines' big wins this season.
UCLA: Sims nailed a dunk in the
final seconds to seal the win and
scored 18 points.
Duke: Sims outmuscled the
Blue Devils for 28 points and 12
rebounds.
Purdue: Sims scored a career-
high 29 points and hit a late 3-point-
er that put the final nail in the
Boilermakers' coffin.
Minnesota: Sims had the hot
hand early and late in the game,
scoring 24 points with seven from
the free-throw line.
The junior has hit his stride down
the stretch. In his lastfive games, he
has averaged 19 points per game.
"He has been one of our better
practice players from January on,"
Beilein said. "I just like what his
attitude has been. He'll have his
moments, but his overall attitude
has been really good about wanting
to be the best player he can be, and
he has worked really hard at that."
The 6-foot-8 forward is playing
more aggressively and his turn-
around jumper has given teams fits.
Following Saturday's 67-64 win
over Minnesota, Sims was asked
about his improved scoring num-
bers. He simply responded, "That's
my thing."
THIRD SCORER: All season, Bei-
lein has said Sims and Harris need
some company as Michigan's top

scorers.
On Saturday, redshirt freshman
guard Laval Lucas-Perry was the
team's third scoring weapon with 19
points.
But Lucas-Perry isn't the only
freshman guard to show up big
on the stat sheet this season. Zack
Novak and Stu Douglass have both
scored 20 points in a game and are
known to burn down the nets with
their long-distance shooting.
With Lucas-Perry just one point
short, Michigan almost has five
players who have scored 20 points
or more this season. In all of Beil-
ein's 31 years of coaching, he can't
remember having a team with that
many go-to scorers.
"As long as you know you have
enough guys to do it, you just are
hoping you can just push the right
buttons at that time," Beilein said.
"That someone will emerge at the
right time."
BIG TEN'S BEST: Last night, Har-
ris was named as a first-team All-
Big Ten selection by the coaches
and media. He was a second-team
selection last year. Sims was picked
on the second team by the media
and third team by the coaches.
Michigan State guard Kalin
Lucas was awarded Big Ten Player
of the Year, and his coach, Tom
Izzo, was selected as Coach of the
Year by the coaches. Penn State
coach Ed DeChellis was given the
honor by the media.

6
0,
6


Earn your degree faster by taking summer classes at
OAKLAND UNIVERSITY

6

If you're spending the summer in the Metro Detroit area, keep moving
toward graduation as a guest student at Oakland University.
You can choose from 1,000 diverse courses in several convenient sessions -
courses that can transfer to your home institution. Check the Michigan Transfer Network
to learn what courses will transfer at www.michigantransfernetwork.org.
Registration begins March 16. Free applications for guest students are available
online at www.oakland.edu/guest.
At OU, you'll find the total college experience - with challenging academics,
Division I athletics and hundreds of student orgs - all for a great value. You'll quickly
see how OU makes an exceptional education available at a truly affordable price.
And remember, at OU, students don't pay any fees. So when you need
transcripts sent to your home institution, you won't pay a thing!

Oakland offers 129 undergraduate degree programs in:
" Arts and Sciences
- Business Administration
" Education and Human Services
" Engineering and Computer Science
" Health Sciences
" Nursing
Important summer dates:
. Summer full session: May 4 - August 15
" Summer I session: May 4 - June 20
- Summer I session: June 29 - August 15

i

a

a

.4


