46F 46F
4*1 4,3
4c ic4i an at Im

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, January 30, 2009

michigandailycom

CANDY, CARDS AND CONDOMS

'illANO-KAMPFER CONFRONTATION
Hearing
begins in
Milano
court case

Pamphlets, buttons, condoms and candy were available to the public at Sexpertise on the terrace of East Hall last night. The two-day long event brings in local experts to
discuss matters of sexual health and relationships in conversations and activities.
ICE HOCKEY AFTERMATH
Yost tightens security meas'ures

Kampfer, two
others testify about
incident in detail
By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor
A preliminary hearing for
the former University athlete
who allegedly attacked a hockey
player in October began yester-
day morning in the Washtenaw
County 15th District Court.
Mike Milano is charged with
aggravated assault and assault
with intent to commit great
bodily harm less than murder, a
felony carrying a penalty of up to
10 years in prison and a $5,000
fine. Milano, a former walk-
on running back, is accused of
assaulting hockey player Steve
Kampfer on the morning of Oct.
12 on a Church Street sidewalk
near East Quad.
Three days after the incident,
the football team suspended
Milano indefinitely.
The hearing was adjourned
after almost four hours yester-
day and will resume Wednesday,
Feb 4., allowing the prosecutor to
prepare for an additional witness
from the defense. There were also
witnesses who were unavailable
for yesterday's hearing.
Judge Elizabeth Pollard Hines
is expected to make a decision
Wednesday on whether to order

Milano to stand trial on the
assault charges.
Three people took the stand
yesterday morning, including
Kampfer, his long-time friend
Mike Anderson who was with
him the night of the incident, and
Engineering senior Neil Patel, the
prosecution's primary witness.
Milano did not testify during
yesterday's hearing.
Kampfer testified for -over an
hour during the hearing. He said
he went to meet his ex-girlfriend
the night of the incident because
someone was "creeping her out"
at Rick's American Cafe.
Kampfer testified that when he
arrived at the Church Street bar
he found his ex-girlfriend stand-
ing outside on the sidewalk with a
few friends. Milano, who Kamp-
fer said he had never met before
that night, was also outside with
two of his friends.
Kampfer said that he and his
ex-girlfriend got into an argu-
ment. They then walked across
the street to hold a private con-
versation.
Kampfer testified that he
grabbed her arm to try and calm
her down after she got upset.
Milano then crossed the street
with two of his friends and con-
fronted him, Kampfer said.
"He was angry, upset," Kamp-
fer said, "with the intention of
arguing."
Anderson, Kampfer's life-long
See HEARING, Page 3

Kampfer's father not
allowed in most
University buildings
By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
and JULIE ROWE
Daily StaffReporters

dent in the visitor's locker room, the
Central Collegiate Hockey Associa-
tion announced the implementa-
tion of increased security measures
at Yost Ice Arena.
Throughout the season, the
visitor's locker room, located on
the south side of the arena, was
.expanded with temporary walls
and curtains to give teams more

outside the curtain and another a
few feet away, near the door to the
team buses.
Starting at this Saturday's game
against Notre Dame, the University
will increase the number of police-
men and security guards at Yost,
according to a statement from the
CCHA released yesterday. -
The University will also require
credentials to enter the visitor's
locker room and will have the "abil-
ity to utilize an overhead steel door

between the locker-room area and
spectator walkway," according to
the press release.
The new measures come after
last Saturday's incident. Bruce
Kampfer, father of Michigan
hockey player Steve Kampfer, is
now banned from most University
buildings as a result of a confronta-
tion with a Michigan State player in
the visitor's locker room.
With less than a minute left in
See YOST, Page 3

Five days after the parent of a space. Before the new security
Michigan hockey player was given a measures, one Department of Pub-
trespass order due to an off-ice inci- lic Safety officer typically stood


In third annual event,
student groups raise
$5,200 for charity

Stars from 'The Wire' discuss the show's
characterization of America's inner cities

By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
"Take it off," a crowd of 300
students shouted to Arab Student
Association President Jad Ibrahim.
"Your sweater, take it offt"
Ibrahim was one of 18 students
who participated in a date auction
at the Michigan League Ballroom
last night.
Bringing in $625 for Project
Suyana - a organization that aims
to improve health care and reduce
poverty in Puno, Peru - a date
with Ibrahim fetched the highest
bid last night.
The Hollywood-themed event
was hosted by Comco, a student com-
edy group. The University's Bhangra
team performed, along ~ with the
Harmonettes a capella group and
Groove, a percussion group.
The auction raised $5,200. The
second-highest bid went to Michi-
gan Student Assembly President
Sabrina Shingwani. Michigan
hockey captain Chris Summers
auctioned off a hockey lesson for
$340.
In addition to auctions, the
group sold 50-50 raffle tickets and
beaded necklaces. The person who

purchased the most necklaces was
auctioned off at the end of night.
Last night's event was Project
Suyana's third date auction in as
many years to raise money for the
group's efforts in Peru.
Project Suyana manager Grace
Li said the funds raised by the auc-
tion this year will be going toward
constructing a shelter for expectant
mothers in the rural Andean regions.
"The shelter, called a Casa de
Estar, will accommodate high-risk
women prior to their scheduled
delivery date to provide adequate
gynecologic and obstetric care
See DATE AUCTION, Page 3
TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER
The five highest prices bid for dates
tad Ibrahim, ArabStudent Association,
$625
2 Sabrina Shingwani, Michigan Student
Assembly,$600
3 LatiftAl-Roumi, Arab Student Association,
$430
4 MinaPirzadeh, Persian Student Association,
$300
5 Ashwin Ramanath, Indian American
Student Association, $210

Audience members
questioned panel on
plot, season finale
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
For theDaily
More than 250 students, pro-
fessors and community members
crammed into an Angell Hall audi-
torium last night to hear the stars
of "The Wire," a hit HBO drama,
discuss the show's commentary on
the racial and social realities of life
in inner city Baltimore.
Two of the shows stars, Clark
Johnson and Sonja Sohn, kicked
off "Heart of the City Symposium:
Black Urban Life on 'The Wire'
" with a casual discussion of the
show and its take on the current
state of racial issues in America as
the nation's first black president
takes office.
The event was part of a two-
day symposium on how the show
addressed the systemic dysfunc-
tions that plague the modern
American inner city.
The evening's event was com-
prised mostly of a back-and-forth
conversation between the actors
and members of the audience.
Robin R. Means Coleman, an asso-

system and the media's portrayal
of it all, "The Wire" has been criti-
cally acclaimed for its insight into
the modern day black urban expe-
rience.
While the event was meant to
focus on how "The Wire" speaks
to race issues after Obama's elec-
tion, the conversation quickly
moved to the shows intricate plot
and much anticipated series finale,
which aired in March.
One ofthe maintopics discussed
was how accurate the show's por-
trayal of Baltimore was in the eyes
of its audience members.
When asked about her relation-
ship to the city, Sohn said that
when she first moved there to
begin filming the series, she saw "a
really segregated city."
However, she said that as she
began to get a better sense of the
city, she saw a community divided
along socioeconomic lines, rather
than strictly racial barriers - a
nuance she said the show was able
to portray accurately.
"The essence of the show was
to keep it real and to make it real,"
Sohn said.
. She added: "The show itself is
an ode to Baltimore."
When an audience member
asked how a show about drug cul-
See THE WIRE, Page 3

Actress Kima Greggs (left), LSA Prof. Robin R. Means Coleman and Actor Clark
Johnson speak at an event about "The Wire" in Angell Hall last night.
ciate professor of communications margins of society, a subject rarely
studies, moderated the discussion. shown on television. Through the
"The Wire," which aired its fifth complex interactions between law
and final season last spring, is a enforcement,governmentofficials,
series about how people live on the drug dealers, the public school


WEATHER HI:27
TOMORROW LO:22

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ONM ICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS................................2 ARTS....................................5
Former MSU player talks for first time since clash. Vol. CXIX, No.84 S U D OKU....... ........ 3 CLASSIFIEDS ....................6
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM 29 TheMichiganDoily OPINION..............................4 SPORTS................................ 7

I


2 - Friday, January 30, 2009

2-Fr9vv. The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

(Left) "Bedroom" set up at the C.C. Little bus stop Thursday. There was no apparent person or group behind the installation.
(ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily) (Right) Pillars outside the Ross School of Business. (SAM WOLSON/Daily)
CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Che ltdhigan AMl
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734=647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandailycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corretions@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734- 764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaiy.com
734-763-0379
Editoriat Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section . sports@michigandaily.com
734-764-8585
Display Sales display@michigandailycom
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
734-615-0135
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaity.com
Jacob Smilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman,Trevor Calero, Julie Rowe, Lindy Stevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna skolerKyle Swanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gikler
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.con
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
uSSISTAuSReSEDITRS:RyanKartje,IanKay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
ele Proseri, Celtsneigsu
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,WhitneyPow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer,Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaitycom
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SEuNIOReuseTOEITORS:Said Aslah,Chanel VoenHabsburg-Lothrinen
ASSISN TrePHOOEaDITRS: MaxCllins Ch esDzoeba u Sirin mWols
Angela Chiland design@michigandaily.com
Maurrr Stych ManagingeDsignEditors
SENIORDESIGNEDITORSHdillarREuffe
Jessica VOsgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DavidMerian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell Copychief mitchetl@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer DisplayAdvertisingsalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski ClassifieduSalesManager
ClassifiedSalesAssistantManager:AlisonThomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDaily (IsSN745-967)is published Monday through Friday duringthefalland wir.er
tesbstensat theUnisrsity ofichigan.eOne cpy i aailbl ree hreteallred-ns.
Additialc ieeye piukdupat tDihtutior$t. ius ciptontorfll terms rtis
September.viaU.s.mal are $110.interterm(tanuarythrough Aprilis$11syearlong(September
through April) is$195.Univers tyaffliates aresubject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
seuiptiesr allemre$5.Subsipti ustbeprepaid.Theschigan Dailyisamemberof
The AssoiatedtPressad Te ssciatd CllegiatePes.

6

Suspects dine Embezzlement
in, walk out investigation

Talk on sex and Faculty dance
relationships performance

WHERE: Nick's Cafe, North
Ingalls Building, 300 Ingalls
WHEN: Wednesday at about
1 p.m.
WHAT: Three unidentified
suspects dined in at Nick's Cafe
and left without paying. Police
arrived after the suspects left
the area .

WHERE: Wolverine Towers,
3001 State Street
WHEN: Wednesday at about
12:30 p.m.
WHAT: An investigation is
underway about a male staff
member of Wolverine Towers
who is accused of misusing his
departmental purchase card.
The monetary amount is $500.

Equipment . .
damed n Theft in hospital
waiting room
power outage

WHAT: A two-day sexual
health lecture that will fea-
ture local experts in the fields
of sexual health and relation-
ships. Topics tobe discussed
are relationships, communica-
tion, sexual heath and sex.
WHO: University Health
Service
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m. to
10 p.m.
WHERE: Colloquium, Ter-
race, Room 3048, and Atrium,
East Hall
Ann Arbor Folk
Festival
WHAT: This 32nd folk festi-
val with traditional and con-
temporary artists. The festival
will continue on Saturday
night, beginning at 6:30 p.m.
WHO: Michigan Union Tick-
et Office and the Ark
WHEN: Tonight at 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

WHAT: Faculty will perform
a revival of modern dance
classics and new creations.
WHO: University Dance
Company
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center
Talk on space
telescope
WHAT: James Webb of the
Observational Cosmology
Laboratory will present a lec-
ture about the progress of the
James Webb Space Telescope.
WHO: Department of Dance
WHEN: Today at 2:15 p.m.
WHERE: Studio A, Dance
building
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Swiss police located a
marijuana field near Zur-
ich by using Google Earth,
The Associated Press report-
ed. The plantation, measuring
almost two acres, was masked
inside of a cornfield. The find
was part of a larger search
that included the arrest of 16
people.
The U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives is currently con-
sidering the Great Lakes
Water Protection Act, which
would commit more than $20
billion over the next fiveyears to
contribute to the long-term sus-
tainability of the Great Lakes
"FORMORE,OPINION, PAGE4
A 17-year-old boy from
Pennsylvanialost hisright
hand and leg when he
tried to muffle the sound of an
exploding firecracker between
his legs, The Associate Press
reported. The boy had been
playing with the firecracker,
lighting and extinguishing the
fuse several times.

0
0

WHERE: Electrical Engineer-
ing Building, 1301 Beal
WHEN: Saturday atabout 11
p.m.
WHAT: An accidental power
outage caused damage to an
optical interface board. The
entire system needs to be
replaced, with an estimated cost
of $5000.

WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room, 1500 East
Medical Center
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9 a.m.
WHAT: A computer bag was
stolen from the emergency
room waiting room. The bag
was recovered but the laptop
and wallet that it held are still
missing.

' art director leaves

After 11 years,
Steward to take job
at Princeton
By MALLORY JONES
For theDaily
One month after the opening
of the newly renovated Museum
of Art, Director James Steward
plans to leave the University to
take a job as the art director of
the Princeton University Art
Museum.
Steward, who has served as the
Museum of Art's director for 11
years, led the $41.9 million build-
ing project.
"I certainly feel very conflict-
ed about it," Steward said. "I cer-
tainly have been involved in the
museum expansion from the very
beginning and in many ways my
blood, sweat and tears are in it."
In his time at ,the University,
Steward added 3,500 pieces of art
to Michigan's collection. Provost
Teresa Sullivan said in an e-mail
interview that she wishes Stew-.
ard the best at Princeton.
"We are grateful for the vision-
ary leadership of James Steward,
under which the Museum of Art
has become one of the most intel-

lectuallysignificant and forward-
looking university art museums
in the country," Sullivan said.
"During his tenure, the Museum
has undertaken an energetic pro-
gram of exhibitions, publications
and outreach to enhance scholar-
ship and encourage broader stu-
dent engagement."
Steward said that after years
of planning and construction for
the 53,000-square-foot addition
to the University's museum, he
would like to "see it come alive."
He said that when he decided to
take the job at Princeton, he made
sure he would be in Ann Arbor for
the opening of the museum.
"I am really grateful for the
experience I have had here,"
Steward said. "And we will have
achieved something, I hope, real-
ly important for the University."
Steward said the size of Prince-
ton's collection - which it's web-
site numbers at more than 68,000
pieces, compared to Michigan's
19,000 - is one of the reasons he
decided to take the position. He
also cited the closer proximity to
New York City and Philadelphia
and the Princeton museum's larg-
er staff as reasons for his move.
"I was certainly offered a great
opportunity to do some interest-
ing things that I really also felt

were going to build on the expe-
riences I have had here," Stew-
ard said. "When they came and
offered me the opportunity in the
end I felt I had to say yes."
He also said the position would
provide him with new challenges.
The Princeton museum, with its
broader historical resources, he
said would allow him to use more
of his art history background.
"For me it was a possibility of
going a little bit back more to my
own training as an academic art
historian. I think there is going
to be a different set of things pos-
sible to me there," Steward said.
Provost Teresa Sullivan's office
will lead the search for a new art
director. Sullivan will appoint an
interim director and will chair a
committee that will conduct the
search for and hire a new director.
"Transition planning has
already begun and the search
committee will be formed very
soon," University spokeswoman
Kelly Cunningham wrote in an
e-mail interview. "The commit-
tee will include representatives
from the faculty, staff, student
body and alumni."
The renovated University of
Michigan Art Museum will open
to students on Mar. 24 and the
public on Mar. 28.

FLOIRIDlA SPRING1 BREAK ROOM PACK(AGES 4ADAY/3t NITS A DAY/5 NITS R8fDAY/7 NrITS

Four vie for GOP top spot

Ranking Senate "The situationis challenging,but
1 it's far from irreversible," McCon-
Republican says party nell added, a dash of optimism in
an otherwise stark assessment of
must change where the Republican Party went
wrong as he provided a road map
WASHINGTON (AP) - After for how it can right itself
crushing defeats in back-to-back He spoke to Republicans gath-
elections, the top Senate Repub- ered in Washington to choose the
lican warned Thursday that the next national chairman; four can-
GOP risks remaining out of power didates are trying to unseat for-
in the White House and Congress mer President George W. Bush's
unless it better explains its core hand-picked RNC chairman, Mike
principles to woo one-time faithful Duncan of Kentucky. The vote is
and new loyalists. Friday.
"The results of the two recent Implicit in McConnell's message
elections are real, and so are the was the concern that the Republi-
obstacles we face as a party," Sen. can Partyunder Bush strayed from
Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told the its beliefs, resulting in drubbings
Republican National Committee in two straight elections.
on Thursday. "My concern is that While McConnell praised Bush
unless we do something to adapt, as a man of principle, he said: "We
our status as a minority party may can all agree, sad as it is, that he,
become too pronounced for an easy wasn't winning any popularity
recovery." contests. And history shows that

unpopular presidents are usually a
drag on everybody else who wears
their political label."
McConnell called forthe GOP to
embrace its conservative principles
- and resist diluting its message -
to bring people back and attract
new rank-and-file. Still, he added:
"It's clear our message isn't getting
out to nearly as many people as it
should :.. Too often we've let others
define us. And the image they've
painted isn't very pretty."
He acknowledged GOP fears
that certain demographics from
certain regions have shunned the
party. And, he warned: "In politics,
there's a name for a regional party:
it's called a minority party."
Just eight years after Republi-
cans controlled the White House
and Congress, the GOP finds itself
out of power and trying to figure
out how to rebound while its foe
has grown much stronger.


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 30, 2009 - 3

S The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 30, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
SPRINGFIELD, Ill.
Illinois Gov.
bounced from office
Gov. Rod Blagojevich was unani-
mously convicted at his impeach-
ment trial and thrown out of office
yesterday, ending a nearly two-
month crisis that erupted with
his arrest on charges he tried to
sell Barack Obama's vacant Senate
seat.
Blagojevich becomes the first
U.S. governor in more than 20 years
to be removed by impeachment.
After a four-day trial, the Illinois
Senate voted 59-0 to convict him
of abuse of power, automatically -
removing the second-term Demo-
crat. Democratic Lt. Gov. Patrick
Quinn, one of his critics, immedi-
ately became governor.
In a second 59-0 vote, the Senate
further barred Blagojevich from
ever holding public office in Illinois
again. -
"We have this thing called
impeachment and it's bleeping
golden and we've used it the right
way," Democratic state Sen. James
Meeks of Chicago said during the
debate, mocking Blagojevich's
expletive-laden words as captured
by the FBI on a wiretap.
Blagojevich's ordeal is far from
over. Federal prosecutors are
expected to bring a corruption
indictment against him by April,
after which a trial date will be set.
WASHINGTON
Obama calls $18B
in Wall Street
bonuses 'shameful'
President Barack Obama issued
a withering critique Thursday of
Wall Street corporate behavior,
calling it "the height of irrespon-
sibility" for employees to be paid
more than $18 billion in bonuses
last year while their crumbling
financial sector received a bailout
from taxpayers.
"It is shameful," Obama said
from the Oval Office. "And part of
what we're going to need is for the
folks on Wall Street who are asking
forhelp to show some restraint, and
show some discipline, and show
some sense of responsibility."
The president's comments, made
with new Treasury Secretary
Timothy Geithner at his side, came
in swift response to a report that
employees of the New York finan-
cial world garnered an estimated
$18.4 billion in bonuses last year.
The figure, from the New York
state comptroller, drew prominent
news coverage.
LANSING, Mich.
Michigan Senate
votes to repeal
business tax charge
Republicans in the Michigan
Senate on yesterday tried again to
help ailing businesses by voting to
reduce their state taxes. And many
Democrats again opposed the effort
if it results in cuts to government
services at a time the state is facing
budget deficits.

Legislationapproved25-11yester-
day by the GOP-led chamber would
repeal a 22 percent surcharge on
the Michigan Business Tax by 2010
- seven years earlier than required
under existing law. The surcharge
was approved 14 months ago to help
resolve a budget deficit.
Asimilar Senate-passed measure
died in the Democratic-controlled
House, in 2008, but Republicans
and businesses pointed to Michi-
gan's worsening economy as a rea-
son to do something "bold."
RAFAH, Egypt
Aid trucks
stranded at Egypt's
Gaza border
More than two dozen trucks
loaded with food, aid and goods
intended for the Gaza Strip were
stranded on the Egyptian side of
the border yesterday, leaving truck-
ers with little to do but sip tea and
exude frustration.
The backlog raises questions
about whether a new U.N. appeal
for $613 million to help Palestin-
ians recover from Israel's three-
week offensive in Gaza will do
much good without a deal to open
the devastated territory's borders.
"The ordinary people here in
Gaza are not getting enough help
and are not getting it quickly
enough," said John Ging, the top
U.N. official in Gaza.
He blamed the aid shortage on
the lack of access to Gaza.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Prospective Greeks
head to winter rush

Ross forum to
consider future
challenges

ru
f

Des
turnou
part,n
pating
winter
Thi
Counc
Panhe
lookin
Greek
ter rec
Dav
dent f
just li
rush I
specti'
chapte
that w
than it
"In
dedica
DeLuc
view. '
this b
an idea
from
throug
DeL
recruit
opport
munit'
acclim
"Ma
jointh
they f
with t
of fall

Number of is an excellent opportunity for the
Greek community to recruit great
ishees, bids up men who may not have been sure
Greek Life was for them when
rom last year they first arrived on campus."
Though the IFC's rush process
By NICOLE ABER is similar in the fall and winter,
Daily StaffReporter Panhel's winter recruitment takes
place on an individual chapter
pite it's traditionally lower basis. Stephenie Lazarus, Panhel
it than its autumn counter- vice president of public relations,
many students are partici- said each chapter decides if it will
in the Greek community's participate in winter rush based
'time recruiting process. on how many new members it
s week the Interfraternity recruited in the fall.
il and select chapters of the "Fall recruitment is much more
lienic Council have been regulated and has many rules
g for new additions to the due to the fact that all chapters
community through win- that are members of the Panhel-
ruitment. lenic Association take part in
id DeLucia, IFC vice presi- fall recruitment," Lazarus said
or recruitment, said that in an e-mail interview. "Winter
ke in the fall, the winter recruitment happens differently
process begins when pro- for each chapter involved."
ve members visit various He added: "It is a more infor-
r houses. But he added mal process and usually consists
'inter rush is much shorter of several events held by the ndi-
:s fall counterpart. vidual chapters that potential
the fall, there is a week new members can attend."
ted to open house events," This semester, only two sorori-
ia said in an e-mail inter- ties - Alpha Gamma Delta and
"In the winter, we avoid Alpha Epsilon Phi - are participat-
ecause many rushees have ing in winter recruitment. Alpha
a of where they want to join Epsilon Phibegan recruiting mem-
interactions with brothers bers last fall when they returned
thout the fall semester." to campus after being kicked off
,ucia added that winter campus in 2005 clue to hazing
tment gives students the incidents. The chapter recruited
unity to join the Greek com- members after the traditional fall
y after they have become recruitment process, which yield-
ated to the University. ed fewer members, allowing them
ny students are hesitant to to participate in winter rush.
eGreekcommunitybecause "Fewer chapters take part in
eel pledging will interfere winter recruitment since many
heir studies," DeLucia said chapters already have as many
rush. "Winter Recruitment members as possible and are

not able to initiate new women,"
Lazarus said.
Lazarus also said less women
typically rush during winter
recruitment, allowing the chap-
ters to getcto know them on a more
personal basis.
"It is unique in the sense that
women taking part in winter
recruitment are able to spend a
larger amount of time with the
sorority women in order to decide
if they would like to join a soror-
ity," Lazarus said.
Returning fraternity Sigma
Chi is also participating in winter
rush, after returning to campus
last fall. It had also been kicked
offcampusbecauseofhazinginci-
dents. Sigma Chi President Chris
Mathews said recruiting as a new
chapter has both advantages and
disadvantages.
"Becausewearejustcomingback
I think that it sparked some interest
simply because people really didn't
know what we were all about," said
Mathews, who is an LSA sopho-
more, in an e-mail interview. "In
that same vein I think that also
because we were just coming back
people may havebeen a little turned
off because being part of a rebuild-
ing fraternity wasn't something that
they were looking for."
According to Blake Toll, IFC
vice president for public relations,
230 men signed up for winter
rush, an increase from last year.
About 180 bids will be. given out
by the chapters today, which is
also an increase from last year.
"The gap between those who
registered and those who gotbids
went down," Toll said. "It has
been all positive."
off didn't know what to expect
but said they were excited to par-
ticipate to raise money for Project
Suyana.
"I'm absolutely willing and happy
to participate," auctionee Maya Ara-
vind said. "From what Iunderstand,
the auction hasbeen very successful
in the past and it's also one of the
more creative and hopefully enter-
taining ways to fundraise."
The actual dinner date will con-
sist of a meal sponsored by Noodles
& Company, QuickieBurger or Cosi.
In years past, the date auc-
tion has been able to raise about
$5,000 each year. About 250 stu-
dents attended the first year and
more than 450 students last year.

With Net Impact,
students, businesses
come together for
a good cause
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
Last night, University students
and business leaders from across
the country gathered at Cottage
Inn on East William Street to kick
off the Ross Net Impact Forum
2009, hosted by the Ross School of
Business.
The theme of this year's forum is
"Next Practices to Address Future
Challenges."
The conference is designed to
bring together prominent business
and academic leaders to discuss the
global changes and their effects
on the economy. Panels today will
address various issues like climate
change, the financial crisis and
energy use among other issues.
Forum organizers said they expect
about 400 participants to attend
today's events.
Program Director Taka Isshiki
said he hopes the event will encour-
age participants and speakers to
discuss issues they think willbe piv-
otal in the business world's future.
"I think this is.going to be an
incredibly relevant and engaging
event, not just for the University
of Michigan community but also
for the Ann Arbor community,"
he said. "The goal for this year's
YOST
From Page 1
Saturday's game, Steve Kamp-
fer was hit from behind by now-
former Michigan State forward
Andrew Conboy. As Kampfer lay
unconscious on the ice, now-for-
mer Michigan State forward Corey
Tropp slashed Kampfer in the head
and neck. Bruce Kampfer's off-ice
reaction occurred minutes after
that on-ice attack.
"I was in the locker room pac-
ing," Tropp told the Sioux Falls
Argus Leader in an interview yes-
terday."I satdown, and probably20
seconds after getting there, his dad
came sprinting in. He exchanged
some words with me and we were
wrestling around a little. We had
each other's arms tied up."
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown
said a 48-year-old Jackson man,
whom Michigan hockey coach Red
Berenson later identified as Bruce
Kampfer, was given a trespass
order after the incident.
All individuals who are given
trespass orders are not allowed to
enter Universitybuildings, with the
exception of University Hospital.
"There is an appeals process that
the individual can go through,"
Brown said.
University Police sent the
results of their investigation of the

forum was to challenge this year's
speakers to look forward and to
look ahead to see what is coming
down the pipeline."
Isshiki added that the conference
will provide an oportunity for stu-
dents to interact and network with
corporate representatives.
"From the student's perspective
wehave severalopportunitiesfornot
just pure networking, but also some
professional networking," he said.
"It is an opportunity for students to
hear directly from the corporations
about their organizations."
During the main event of the
two-day affair, time will be allot-
ted for students to approach the
professional' speakers and talk
about whatever they want.
Last night's event gave partici-
pants a chance to meet representa-
tives from the different companies
attending the forum. The corpora-
tions each gave a pitch about their
companies and provided participants
withrecruitment information.
The University's chapter of Net
Impact is part of the 10,000-mem-
ber Net Impact organization
nationwide. The University's chap-
ter has about 275 members, mostly
Master of Business Administration
students.
Net Impact aims to instill lead-
ership and networking skills in its
members by providing business
opportunities through conferences
and events. The organization also
strives to enhance business cur-
ricula by encouraging sustainabil-
ity practices and hosting social
events.
incident to prosecutors yesterday,
and the Washtenaw County Pros-
ecutor's office will determine if
charges will be filed against Bruce
Kampfer.
In addition to implementing
increased security measures, the
Michigan Athletic Department
made it clear in an e-mail message
to season ticket holders yesterday
that profane language and gestures
will not be tolerated from Yost
spectators.
As Kampfer lay unconscious on
the ice after Saturday night's inci-
dent, the Michigan student section
angrily chanted "Fuck you State"
for more than 10 minutes.
The obscene chant was clearly
heard on television, and in the
e-mail message, the Michigan Ath-
letic Department emphasized the
importance of good behavior dur-
ing Saturday's game against Notre
Dame.
"We want to make sure our
opponents and the television crowd
see and hear Yost rock," the e-mail
said. "With that being said, we
believe the fan conduct last week
was not appropriate to Michigan
standards and will not be tolerated
in the future. The actions on the ice
do not excuse what was heard or
displayed."
Daily News Editor Trevor Calero
contributed to this report.

DATE AUCTION
From Page 1
during labor, thereby attempt-
ing to address the alarmingly
high infant and mother mortality
rates," Liu said.
Project Suyana member Reda
Jaber said he decided to host the
date auction in 2006 as a fundrais-
er because the group wanted an
event that would appeal to a wide
group of students.
"Most other events rely on sell-
ing tickets as their main source
of revenue," he said. "With a date
auction, we not only sell tickets,
but we make thousands of dollars

during the actual event."
Liu said she was proud many
different student groups were
represented.
"The students who were auc-
tioned off come from different
graduate and undergraduate cam-
puses at.the University and repre-
sent a wide spectrum of cultural,
social and academic backgrounds,
and performance groups," Liu
said. "The Bhangra team, the Har-
monettes and Groove represent
great artistic diversity as well."
Jaber said the students who
were auctioned off were selected
by contacting leaders of the vari-
ous student organizations.
Many of the students auctioned


HEARING
From Page 1
friend who was visiting from out
of town at the time of the incident,
took the stand next.
He testified that Kampfer and
Milano got into a "heated argu-
ment" in an alley near Pizza
House.Anderson, whohad crossed
the street following Milano and
his two friends, said he grabbed
Kampfer's arm and urged him to
"get the hell out of here."
Kampfer testified that he and
Anderson left the alley and start-
ed walking toward his house on
South Forest.
As the two were leaving, Kamp-
fer said that he and Milano con-
tinued to shout profanities and
insults at one another until they
reached Willard Street, but he
doesn't remember what exactly
was said.
Kampfer said that the last thing
he can remember is being picked
up as he was walking away from
Milano.
"The last thing I remember is
two guys pushed Mike (Anderson)
and I away," Kampfer said. "Then
I was up in the air."
Kampfer said the next thing he
remembers is waking up in the
hospital and talking to Michigan
hockey coach Red Berenson at 10
a.m. on Sunday morning.
Kampfer sustained back and
neck injuries and suffered from a
THE WIRE
From Page 1
ture avoided muddling in stereo-
types, Johnson said, "The honesty
of the writing...is indisputable."
Sohn added that the show made
it "easy to put images out there
and wake people up and make a
change."
After the event, LSA junior
Danielle Hayden said that after
watching the show, "many peo-
ple's minds may have changed
about certain issues."
Rackham student Paul Farber, a
co-organizer of the event, said the
series gave people the know-how to
take action in their day-to-day lives.
"It's our duty to take (the

fractured skull. He was released
from the hospital on Oct. 13 and
was required to wear a neck
brace until Nov 19. Kampfer's
first game back on the ice was at
the Great Lakes Invitational on
Dec. 27.
Inthe testimonies heard yester-
day, there were some differences
of opinion surrounding the events
leading up to Kampfer being
forced to the ground.
Kampfer testified that he was
completely surprised, having no
idea that Milano and his friends
were following them, and that he
continued to face forward until he
was lifted into the air. Kampfer
also testified that he and Milano
stopped shouting at one another
once he and Anderson got to Wil-
lard Street.
However, Anderson testified
that Kampfer and Milano contin-
ued to harass one another, with
Kampfer getting in the "so called
last word." He said he then heard
footsteps coming from behind,
and that he and Kampfer both
glanced backwards to see Milano
and his friends running toward
them.
Patel, the final witness called
to the stand, said he was walking
home on Church Street the night
of the incident. He said he saw two
groups of guys - a group of three
following a group of two - but
didn't notice anything suspicious
at first.
Patel testified that he saw one
show's) lessons and try to imple-
ment them and think further on
them," said Farber.
Despite the lack of focus on
what Obama's election means to
today's society, Johnson said in an
interview after the event the his-
toric campaign does not solve all
racial problems in this country.
"It's not enough just to say we
got a black man as president in the
White House," he said. "We have
to continue on what he was hop-
ing for."
Johnson also said that there is
much left work to be done.
"There are going to be some
big questions to be answered, and
that's a good thing - we need a
new America in order," he said.
In the show, Johnson plays the

guy from the group of three pick
up someone from the group of two
and throw him into the ground.
Patel's testimony differs from
Anderson's in the fact that Patel
said the individual who was
picked up was thrown over the
shoulder of the guy from the
group of three, and landed on the
top of his head.
Anderson testified, however,
that Milano wrapped his arms
around Kampfer's midsection
andforcefully threw him into the
ground, landing on top of him,
with Kampfer's upper back and
the back of his neck hitting the
concrete.
Jay Milano, the defendant's
father, said in an interview with
The Michigan Daily after the
hearing that Kampfer has been
portrayed as a victim while his son
has been portrayed as a villain.
Milano's father said Kampfer
was "drunk and out of control,"
and that his son used a "distinctive
wrestling move" to bringKampfer
down and that he "never meant to
hurt him."
"Steve Kampfer was not an
innocent victim," Jay Milano said
after the hearing. "He was the
aggressor."
Defense attorney John Shea
said Milano's actions were not
unprovoked, as they have been
portrayed.
Daily Sports Editor Michael
Eisenstein contributed to this report.
character of Gus Haynes, the edi-
tor of the city's fictional paper The
Wire. He also directed some of
the episodes, including the series'
finale. Sohn plays Detective Sha-
kima Greggs, a member of the Bal-
timore Police Department.
The two-day event is sponsored
by the Black Humanities Collec-
tive and the Center for Afroameri-
can and African Studies.
In today's portion of the sym-
posium, there will be a day full
of presentations in Palmer Com-
mons on the show and its value in
discussions of urban politics and
contemporary culture. For more
information on the time and loca-
tion for these events, see http://
sitemaker.umich.edu/heart.of_
the-city/schedule_.

F RIDAYS
Domestic Bottles are only
31 a a St - dAM10-tk f ot0 W i S t Boe r
,MTV
H--,m


4 - Friday, January 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

74( e loan '3aily


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.

Great Lakes, great benefits
Federal bill would help economy and ecology of the region
A fter years of neglect by the federal government, the Great
Lakes may finally get some of the attention they deserve.
That's because Capitol Hill is now considering legislation
that would invest federal dollars in projects designed to protect
the lakes. The bill in question promises to preserve key compo-
nents of the region's environment and has the added potential to
stimulate economic activity in Michigan. And because the Great
Lakes are sucha valuable resource for this state and the nation,
Congress has a responsibility to the environment, Michigan and
surrounding states to protect them.

The U.S. House of Representatives is cur-
rently considering the Great Lakes Water
Protection Act, which would commit more
than $20 billion over the next five years to
contribute to the long-term sustainability
of the Great Lakes. A related bill has also
been introduced in the Senate, backed by
Michigan's Carl Levin. Although similar
legislation has been voted down in previ-
ous years, the new plan is more likely to
succeed now that Democrats control both
Congress and the presidency - particu-
larly in light of President Barack Obama's
campaign promise to create a federal trust
fund to preserve the lakes.
If passed, this plan would take steps to
address some of the problems troubling the
Great Lakes in recent years. One of the larg-
est parts of the bill would revamp waste and
storm water management systems, replac-
ing antiquated infrastructure that allows
contaminants to leak into natural water sys-
tems. The bill would also set a deadline for
restricting sewage dumping into the lakes.
Other components being considered would
clean up pollutants in rivers that feed into
the lakes and combat invasive species that
threaten freshwater environments.
The problems facing the lakes are simply
too big for states to tackle on their own.
That means the federal government needs
to honor its long-neglected responsibility
to protect the region's environment. The
Great Lakes are more than just a part of

Michigan's mitten-shaped identity; as the
world's largest freshwater reserve, they
also stand as one of the nation's most pre-
cious resources. Preserving them needs
to be a priority, because cleaner, healthier
lakes stand to enhance the health and well-
being of people and ecosystems throughout
the entire region.
This legislation would also provide
much-needed help to Michigan's ailing
economy. The plan is projected to create
40,000 jobs in Michigan alone. And tour-
ism, one of the state's largest industries,
stands to benefit as well. Cleaner water and
healthier ecosystems are likely to attract
greater numbers of sportsmen, fishers and
family beach-goers to the state. Increased
tourism would infuse the state economy
with much-needed cash and support busi-
nesses facing tough economic times. As
an added bonus, tourism generates tax
revenues for the state that can be used for
things like increasing funding to higher
education.
Protecting the future of the Great Lakes
shouldn't be delayed. Their impact on the
environment and economy - in Michigan
and the entire region - is far too important
to ignore. Obama needs to honor his com-
mitment to make the lakes an environmen-
tal priority. For its part, Congress needs to
get its act together and pass a comprehen-
sive plan to preserve these national trea-
sures for current and future generations.

We have this thing called impeachment and it's
bleeping golden and we've used it the right way."
- Illinois state senator James Meeks, mocking Blagojevich's expletive-laden words that
were captured by the FBI on a wiretap, as reported yesterday by the Chicago Tribune.
BELLA SHAH E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU
a one crx~ . gr2 2ss~n 4\n,... so -
.22
to te
A badprescr >tion forA2
fizer, the top company in phar- sever its primary research and devel- ence-based jobs in this state. Instead,
maceutical sales worldwide, opment site. they let their money and our talent
recently submitted a bid to it takes tens of millions of dollars walk away.
purchase its com- and about a decade to stumble upon We may not recognize it here on
petitor Wyeth for and test a useful drug. Even then, the campus, but the University was the
$68 billion. company only has exclusive rights buyer of last resort for the Pfizer
That should to the formula for about ten years, property (all 174 acres of it). Although
surprise you, which drives the prices through the the city breathed a collective sigh of
considering that roof until the patent is opened up for relief when the University stepped up
Pfizer pulled out generic brands to copy. Even with the to claim the empty space, our local
of Michigan for patents, internet and foreign sales hero can't give the city what we really
good in 2008, cit- pose a serious challenge to American need. The University doesn't pay the
ing the need to pharmaceutical sales. city taxes, nor can it pay the kind of
save money. The MEG To save time, large corporations salaries the drug company was able
company's Ann YOUNG like Pfizer are able to buy promising to support.
Arbor campus . drugsby acquiringcompanies that are
alone - a two too small to do major safety and clini-
million-square- cal testing themselves. It's a business How Pfizer's exit
foot space - employed 3,600 people, model that Pfizer has used before:
mostly for research and development. originally, the Ann Arbor location was has hurt th state
The site was the worldwide capital of opened by drug company Parke Davis, he
the company's research and develop- who stumbled on the wildly-popular, and
ment. Now, a third of its employees cholesterol-lowering drug Lipitor local economy.
have been relocated, another third before Pfizer gobbled it up.
found pharmaceutical jobs outside One of the major challenges that
of Michigan and the rest were left to Pfizer experienced in 2006 was the It is difficult to say right now what
fend for themselves. unexpected failure of the drugs kind of impact the University's pur-
In vacating our city, Pfizer left acquired in its buyout of competitor chase of the site will have on the
behind an economic crater. The ripple Pharmacia, which put the company school itself. But Ann Arbor residents
not only affects the businesses on the in a difficult position. But pulling out and students should both be con-
north side but has shaken the rest of of Michigan was an executive deci- cerned about the loss of Pfizer and the
the city as well. Pfizer brought enor- sion, not asteam play. Whatever finan- unrealized opportunity for another
mous tax revenue to Ann Arbor that cial woes that worried the heads of hearty company to diversify the city's
the city has been hard-pressed to Pfizer were forgotten as soon as they economy and widen its tax base.
make up for elsewhere. In 2008, the skipped town. In fact, Pfizer's future In this difficult economy, you can
total taxable value of Pfizer's Ann must look pretty good to the credi- be sure that other important indus-
Arbor properties alone was just under tors who'are financing its $68 billion tries will have trouble. And although
$150 million. Ann Arbor's Pfizer site dollar bid to Wyeth, especially when we have so few titans left to fall, we
gave away millions to philanthropic credit is apparently this tight. need to be wary and protective of
organizations every year - money So why did Pfizer leave? The idea all of our businesses. For students to
that the nonprofits are struggling that Michigan's legislators created stay in Michigan after they gradu-
without. The United Way, a dedicated an inhospitable climate for the drug ate, they need to have access to jobs
community service partner, will espe- company has been rumored, but of their caliber. For that reason and
cially feel the loss; Pfizer gave about a Pfizer claims that politics weren't the so many more, I hope Michigan will
million dollars per year to the United cause of its departure. Only one thing think twice before it lets the next
Way's Washtenaw County branch. is certain: Michigan's leaders didn't Pfizer waltz its billions of dollars out
Pfizer's pullout came as a surprise, throw their arms across the door the door.
even considering the limping econo- when Pfizer asked to leave. Our lead-
my. It was difficult for people here to ers should have done everything they Meg Young can be reached
imagine why a global company would could to keep such highly-skilled, sci- at megyoung@umich.edu.

0
6
6

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Daily acted irresponsibly bybelieve this was the intention of Elaine Morton,
te' its potential effect on public perception should
running stem cell cartoon have been considered.
Alexander Vilagosh

0

Misguided traditions

TO THE DAILY: LSA junior v
In responseto Elaine Morton's recentcartoon
(Nature Calls, 01/27/2009), it was irresponsible University
and dangerous for the Daily to publish a car-
toon that anthropomorphized embryonic stem Ayersplat
cells. This gives a false impression of the issues
behind embryonic stem cell research.
The stem cells currently allowed for use in TO THE DAILY:
laboratory research are created in the labs from In regards to1
a sperm and an egg. The embryos are not con- versity by Bill Ay
ceived naturally, and thus had no potential of renewed activisim
ever being "human" - no more so than an egg should be asham(
in any month that is not used in procreation. where on campus.
By anthropomorphizing the cells, the cartoon the mere thought
implied that they have the feelings and emo- cable human beir
tions of a human. At less than five days afterthe through which to
fertilization (the point at which the stem cells Ayers is a deplo
are extracted from the embryo, destroying the tant terrorist, yet
embryo itself), this is simply not the case. speak out on any
While many would try and draw links grace. Whateverg
between this debate and the abortion debate, education or polit
they are two completely separate issues. It is radical, anti-Ame
unknown when a fetus develops the emotions belief system. He
to a level where it can be considered human ed notoriety from
and have a right to life, but that point is cer- alleged affiliation
tainly not within five days of fertilization. Of It is embarrass
course, there is also the fact that a single cell dare let this mar
would not "be a human" anyway, though I do wife speak here.'
not believe the cartoonist was going for scien- campus is rampa
tific accuracy. levels. Ayers is jus
Stem cells have the potential to do so much, versity administn
but the research requires the support of the if Ayers had bomb
general population so that appropriate funding instead of the Pet
can be allocated to these scientific programs. Headquarters and
The good that can come of this research far out- Shame on youI
weighs the bad. Making embryonic stem cells and whoever at thi
have human characteristics - even through
a cartoon - could influence understanding of Andrew Lorelli
the issue with no factual basis. While I do not LSA senior

wrong to give
form to speak
the recent visit to the Uni-
yers (At event, Ayers pushes
n, 01/27/2009), the University
ed to have Ayers speak any-
. I, for one, am discouraged by
of having that kind of despi-
ng given any sort of medium
speak.
rable person and an unrepen-
t people continue to let him
number of topics. It is a dis-
good he claims he is doing for
ical activism is negated by his
rican and hateful history and
is capitalizing on his reignit-
the campaign season and his
with Barack Obama.
sing that this school would
n and his equally repugnant
The leftist fanaticism on this
nt and disturbing on many
st one example. I believe Uni-
ators would feel differently
bed Angell Hall or the Union
ntagon, New York City Police
I the US Capitol Building.
Bill Ayers, Bernardine Dohrn
s school gave them a platform.

T radition oozes from every
patch of this University,
whether it's on the athletic
field or on the road
between South
and West Quad
on the evening of
the season's first
snow. Tradition
is cherished here
and rightfully so.
But there are
some traditions NEIL
that should notT
be continued or TAMBE
lauded. These are
harmful traditions
that happen in secret, lack purpose
and are only for tradition's sake. Haz-
ing, the coercion of new members of a
group to perform extreme and danger-
ous acts, is one of these useless tradi-
tions and should be prevented on this
campus. And at the start of a semester
when organizations begin thinking
about transitioning leadership teams
and new members, hazing prevention
needs to be a priority.
And it's not just fraternities or bands,
though these types of organizations
have a prevalent association with haz-
ing. Many other types of organizations
have been implicated in hazing, and it's
unfair to attribute the practice to a sin-
gle type of group. No matter who does
it, hazing is hazing and it's wrong.
Hazing existsbecause it is ingrained
in the tradition of organizations and
because those who promote hazing
misguidedly think that it has a positive
effectcon the culture of an organization.
But in truth, all itdoes is indicate a seri-
ous lack of leadership. Hazing creates
negative, aggressive feelings between
members. As time passes, hazing prac-
tices become increasingly severe until a
tragedy occurs. These offensive, harm-
ful practices deter talented new people
from joining an organization because
they are turned off to abuse.
Advocates ofhazingpractices claim

that the activities can have some posi-
tive effects on an organization. Even
if they do, there are many alternatives
to hazing that are just as good - or
better - for accomplishing goals like
bringing people together or encour-
aging hard work. These are the alter-
natives that are not psychologically or
physically harmful. Challenges and
shared experiences are created all the
time without engaging in the harmful
variety of hazing.
These activities are largely irratio-
nal in the first place. If hazing is meant
to initiate or indoctrinate members to
an organization's culture, the activi-
ties should have some relevancy and
connection to life in the organization.
For example, if you are not a member
of a goldfish-swallowing club, there's
no reason to make someone swallow a
goldfish. To do so is simply absurd.
Some hazing activities attempt to
have a purpose - which, I suppose, is
slightly betterthan completely neglect-
ing to have one. But any supposed les-
sons learned through hazing will never
be more than a long stretch of anal-
ogy or better than the lessons learned
by purposeful non-hazing activities.
Learning the value of team unity by
linking arms for an extended period of
time is a shallow lesson. Forcing people
to do lots of push-ups does not obvious-
ly teach persistence. Trying to justify
hazing by saying it has a so-called pur-
pose is not providing a sufficient justi-
fication, but instead just a thinly-veiled
rationalization for wrongdoing.
Make no mistake - hazing is an
abuse of power. But the paradox of
hazing is thatvictims really have more
power than their abusers. If a victim of
hazing chooses to abandon an organi-
zation, it leaves the organization closer
to failure because it consequently has
fewer members and a bad reputation.
The departing member can just join a
new organization. Underclassmen, you
don't have to let an organization haze
you. They need you to survive more

than you need them.
Continuing abusive practices
because hazing is legally difficult to
define isn't okay, either. By legal defi-
nitions, many benign activities might
be judged as hazing in court, so there
may be little incentive to temper any
harmful activities. Even if it is hard to
define, legal ambiguity is not an excuse
to allow hazing to remain.
Hazing prevention
is key for student
groups to flourish.
Instead of tip-toeing around the
legality of hazing, an organization
strivingfor excellence should dothings
that are botheffective and indisputably
moral. A simple rule of thumb should
be that if an activity could be consid-
ered hazing even to a small degree, it's
not worth the waste of time because
there is a better option.
Complicating the matter further,
some people claim to like being hazed
because they feel they earn their orga-
nizational affiliation that way. That's
like saying they enjoy getting punched
in the face. I think what those people
actually like is being part of a group
that pays attention to and challenges
them - neither of which hazing really
does.
Traditions will continue at this Uni-
versity long after we all leave. Many
will have the opportunity to cement a
lasting legacy on an athletic field, the
stage, in a classroom or at a meeting
table. In addition to other successes,
make hazing prevention a part of your
legacy by replacing abusive practices
with better, meaningful alternatives.
Neil Tambe can be reached
at ntambe@umich.edu.

6

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder



The Michigan Daily -michigandaily.com

Friday, January 30, 2009 -- 5

Tweedy,
Seeger star
a olk Fest
By MIKE KUNTZ now; after an initial- stint with
DailyArts Writer pioneering country barnstorm-
ers Uncle Tupelo, he has since
The 32nd Annual Ann Arbor released nine albums with Wilco
Folk Festival begins tonight at (including a collaboration with
Hill Auditori- Billy Bragg that produced two
um. Spread over collaborative albums containing
a two-night AnnAr bOr reworked Woody Guthrie songs).
span, the event Folk Festival Tweedy is known for his deep-
flaunts over a ly pensive and often downright
dozen acts, both At Hill depressing lyrics. Morbid rumi-
old and new. Tonightand nations like, "Maybe all I need
Each year, the tomorrow, is a shot in the arm," and, "Tall
festival books 6:30 p.m. buildings shake / voices escape
a lineup with Tickets / singing sad, sad songs" are
an even blend starting at $45 common ground for the song-
of traditional writer. But despite his somber
roots musicians lyrical material, he unfailingly
and contemporary folk songwrit- elicits cheerful assistance from
ers. This year's big names suit this the voices of his audiences.
dynamic perfectly. The festival is While older festival attend-
headlined by Jeff Tweedy, Kris ees may wonder how such dark
Kristofferson and an appear- themes found their way into the
ance by Pete Seeger. Their per- balmy world of folk songwriting,
formances are sure to bridge the they'll surely recognize that the
gap between generations, each orthodox intentioss of folk music
performer having carved his own are kept intact at Hill Auditori-
niche in American folk music um. The varied lineup promises a
over the years. cheerful gathering with copious

"Really? I can save 15 percent or more on my car insurance? Holy fuck."
A wolf with o bite

The third installment of
the 'Underworld' series
would've been better off
going straight to DVD
By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
Somebody get Michael Sheen a better agent.
Sheen ("Blood Diamond") is a talented and
likable actor capable of hold-
ing a stage and starring on
the screen. But here's the
thing: He's not quite the star U .de wod:
he deserves to be. He held his
own against Helen Mirren ISe of the
("The Queen") and Frank Lan- LyCans
gella ("Frost/Nixon"), but yet
he keeps coming back to the At Qualityl6
"Underworld" franchise. and Showcase
After a soft snub from the Screen Gems
Academy for "Frost/Nixon,"
Sheen's back in the B-movie
ghetto, doing what he has been doing since
2003: anchoring this goth movie franchise.
"Underworld: Rise of the Lycans" is the third

film in the modestly successful werewolf-ver-
sus-vampire series.
"Rise of the Lycans" is a prequel to the other
"Underworld" movies. Sheen reprises the role of
an enigmatic Lycan (werewolf) named Lucian.
The back story is relatively simple: A long time
ago, in some dark, underground vampire castle,
Lycans were slaves to vampires. Originally, the
Lycans were beings unable to turn into humans.
Lucian was the first of his kind to be able to shift
into human form.
Because of this unusual ability, Lucian is
exploited to show how vampires can control
their Lycan enemies. Add some hot wolf-on-
vamp sex, the reappearance of a character or
two from the first movie and some medieval vio-
lence, and you've got yourself another "Under-
world" movie.
Does this third installation offer closure or
justify the existence of the "Underworld" tril-
ogy? Whatever. The people seeing "Rise of the
Lycans" are likely action/gore junkies, and the
film won't disappoint.
For all its obvious faults - cheap effects, real-
ly bad editing and the gnawing sense that the
film almost went straight to DVD - "Rise of the
Lycans" isn't all that bad. Scenes like a prison
break and the final battle are predictable but
consuming, enjoyable in a guilty pleasure sort of

way. And Sheen works his ass off to make sure
his audience can still believe in the chintzy mov-
ies he has been headlining. Given the sheer ludi-
crousness of the "Underworld" franchise, Sheen
maintains a commendable sense of seriousness.
Bill Nighy ("Love, Actually") is fantastic as
Viktor, the ruthless king of the vampires. He's
nearly 60 and, with his bloodthirsty gusto, you
can barely tell he has a stuntman for all of his
action scenes. Roger Moore wasn't even this
active in his later James Bond flicks.
Still, this is a gory action-fantasy for nincom-
poops, and not much more. It'll make the money
it's expected to make.'But "Rise of the Lycans"
is unlikely to amuse beyond its initial run and a
couple of late-night cable screenings. You'll for-
get it fast.
Michael Sheen can (and should) do much bet-
ter. He's got the chops. But why is he stuck in
this strange limbo between B-lister and A-lister,
making himself into something akin to a B-plus-
lister? He's brilliant in everything he does and
deserves to act with George Clooney or under
Martin Scorsese. He can do it. And dammit, if
he can make people care about a werewolf - er,
Lycan - for 90 minutes, then what's stopping
him from filling a great leading role? For now,
well just have to wait until 2011's inevitable
"Underworld: Live Free or Die Lycan."

In addition to being a vibrant
exhibition of roots music, the fes-
tival is a fund-raiser for The Ark,
a nonprofit Main Street music
club and fixture of the Ann Arbor
folk scene since its inception 44
years ago. Tickets have been on
sale for a couple of months, and
an earlier discounted run was
offered exclusively to University
students. Though folk music may
not carry the same pop-culture
relevance for younger crowds
as it did in the '60s, many stu-
dents eagerly snagged tickets to
see Tweedy, the lead singer and
songwriter for Chicago-based
band Wilco.
The Arkhas made extra efforts
over the years to create as var-
ied a lineup as possible, making
it a point to consistently book a
strong selection of up-and-com-
ers. Other scheduled acts include
Old Crow Medicine Show, Caro-
lina Chocolate Drops, the Rag-
birds, Joe Pug and Katie Herzig.
Jeff Tweedy headlines tonight
and he will undoubtedly attract
the most attention from stu-
dents. Tweedy's live shows are
known for their somewhat com-
munal atmosphere that prompts
members of the audience to
sing along to his deeply poetic
- though somewhat cryptic -
ballads. Tweedy has been cut-
ting his folk chops for a while

Showcasing
America's best
folk for 32 years.
sing-alongs in the tradition of
elder folk artists like the legend-
ary Pete Seeger.
Seeger, Saturday's headliner,
really needs no introduection.
A working man's leftist (to the
point of being investigated for
Communist activities by HUAC
and Sen. Joseph McCarthy in
the late 1950s), his storied career
as a singer-songwriter includes
countless pro-union and pro-
test songs. He's equally known
for crafting musical children's
stories, such as "Turn! Turn!
Turn! (To Everything There is
a Season)" and "Puff the Magic
Dragon." His influence on the
folk movement of the 1960s is
incomparably vast, and his leg-
acy surely lives on through each
performer at the Festival.
With both the traditional and
experimental fringes of folk
joined under one roof, it's clear
that the ever-expanding canon of
American folk music is alive and
well in Ann Arbor.

'Lie to Me' truthfully forgettable

ByRACHEL HANDLER
For theDaily
In "Lie to Me," FOX's answer
to every other crime series on
television, Dr.
Cal Lightman ~
(Tim Roth,
"The Incredible Lie to Me
Hulk") is Wash-
ington, D.C. law Wednesdays
enforcement's at9 p.m.
on-call , super- Fox
hero, part mar-
ginally less angry
House and part branier Batman.
He's also a variable human lie detec-
tor - Lightman can sense dishon-
esty before a suspect even begins to
speak - and he's just as smug and
self-satisfied about it as expected.
In a show that purports to look
deeper into things and eschew the
obvious, the characters and plot are
disappointingly one-dimensional.
All of the usual detective show reg-
ulars are here working side-by-side
withLightman.There'sHutchinson,
the skeptical superior (Josh Stam-
berg, "Fracture"), Gillian, the beau-
tiful,compassionate-yet-unavailable
coworker (Kelli Williams, "The
Practice"), Ria, the tough-as-nails
newbie (Monica Raymund, "Law
and Order"), and Eli, the goofy but
lovable young assistant with the

inevitable crush on the unavailable in the pilot when he watches psy-
coworker (Brendan Hines, "The chologist Gillian, the aforemen-
Sarah Connor Chronicles"). Despite tioned unavailable coworker and
the prototypical orbiting cast, Roth the heart to Lightman's brains and
makes leading man Lightman a brawn, being deceived by her hus-
pretty well-rounded character. band. He doesn't say a word. Yet on
Initally, little is revealed about the job, Lightman sheds his Bruce
Lightman except that he's divorced, Wayne persona and becomes com-
smarmyandhas aprecociousdaugh- pletely unpredictable and unortho-
ter well versed in "Juno" speak. But dox. In order to eke a confession out
throughout the show, brief glimpses of a shaky high school student, he
into his psyche pop up to deepen tells her that the falsely apprehend-
our understanding of him. Though ed suspect has hung himself in his
his examinations of facial and body jail cell and that it was all her fault.
language are entirely scientific (and Even after her sobbing confession,
based on real-life deception expert Lightman doesn't bother to tell her
Dr. Paul Ekman), Lightman is the the whole thing was a setup.
typical comic book superhero. He's Much of "Lie To Me" fits snugly
inwardly tortured by his ability. inside the mold of a typical crime
series, though it does attempt to
break it on some occasions. Flashy
camera techniques are read-
Crime dram a ily employed -quick zoom-ins on
the deceitful facial expressions
meets super and gestures of the suspects, and
heroes in this occasional real-life footage of
some infamous truth dodgers (O.J.
unoriginal show. Simpson and Dick Cheney includ-
ed). This fancy filming, however,
rarely trusts the viewers to make
connections for themselves.
Though he generally uses his pow- There's also some fairly snappy
ers of truth-detection for good, they dialogue - Lightman dryly asks
hinder him from existing content- his daughter's new boyfriend,
edly in a world full of liars. "You going to try.to sleep with my
His unusual moral code emerges daughter tonight?" - but it ends

up feeling a bit contrived. And as
Gillian eats pudding and drinks
Slurpees at 9 a.m. to the chagrin of
Lightman, it's obvious the writers
want viewers to believe she's quirky
and child-like, but its not convinc-
ingly executed.
"Lie To Me" wants audiences to
believethatthey can'tpredictits plot
twists and character developments,
and it begs them to think Light-
man can predict human deception.
But until the show separates itself
from its innumerable predecessors,
audiences will be no less jaded than
Lightmian.

Wilco's Jeff Tweedy headlines tonight at the Ann Arbor Folk Festiva

STILL NOT SATISFIED?
Check online for more content
michigandaily.com/section/arts


6-- Friday, January 30, 2009
the michigan daily

IIFI '

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
2002 BUICK CENTURY - loaded,
80K miles, great shape, all mechanicals
work. $6,200. Call 734-665-3489.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!.
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
Ill) directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
swwwcs.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!tIALF MONTH FREE!! !!Avail.
Fall 2009!! (Sign up before Jan. 31st
and get one half mo. free on 2 bdrm.
apts.-up to $700 off.)
I & 2 bedroom apts. (can live 2 or 4
people) 715 Church St. & 721 Church
St. - Incredible location! Across from
East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
parking, heat and water paid by land-
lord, no pets, no smoking. Small man-
agement company with excellent
record of personal service. We provide
first rate service! Lease with a
company that truly cares!
CALL C & I Managetent, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
2-BED 2-Bath!
515 Walnut: Huge apt., great for 3 or
4. tons of sunlightafurnished, new
kitchen, laundry and parking!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
III S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., dry.,


Now until January 310, get a pizza
coupon for every new tour!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com

J
,

Wilson\hite
MANA GEMENT
U of M
Housing Fair!
02.0f.2009
Michigan Union
5aliroom
We will be there with
specials, deals,
free>ies, and will be
dressed to impress!


5266 varsityongetuom
521 watuun-vat vsfreoi
Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1 100
--------------------
*Campus Locations
F 2Reasonable Prices* !
Furnished, dishwashers, AC, parking
1039 Baldwin - 4 Bedroom
543 Church St. - Studio
911 & 1001 S. Forest - 2 Bedrooms
1346&1506 Geddes -3 Bedrooms
1015 W. Huron - 2 Bedrooms
203 O ad 8on Bdrms
731 Pac a ad 1$2695 doo
526 & 917 Packard - Large 2 Bedrooms
848 Tappan - 1& 2 Bedrooms
1015 Vaughn-1&2Bedrooms
515 Walnut - Studio,1 & 2 Bedrooms
521 Walnut -1 & 2 Bedrooms
418 E. Washington - Studios & 1 Bedrooms
331 Catherine - 6 Bedroom House
Call for personalized showings!
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE -
FALL 2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250

.ci
d and -
19 Great Locations
Studio -4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or Visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.
CAMPUS PROPERTIFES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland(Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
d
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009

0

6

MR

ffm

Univemit
Tower
S6-BEDROOM House! 331 Cather-
ine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full baths, great
for 6 - 8 people. Close to Downtown,
Zingerman's & summer farm market!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
1 & 2 Bdrm. farn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min, walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
t Studio & I
. + Bdrm .Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qui am F-vy e wbx-. a pis
Ca0 Brian Tomnsic
734-663-1530

6 BDRM{ HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back. $3300.
Call 248-214-8708!
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Bwn. State and 5ts.
$3775 neg. plus utl. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect. 2 Bath.,6Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.almandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
an't' miss out on the
January Blowout Deals!!!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This absolutely ends on 1/31/2009!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water incl. $1799/ mo. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

. . . ~~1 V1Ji}'l
Campus Management, Inc. invites you 1307 S. State $2495
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of 6 Bedrooms
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6 401 E. Madison $3995
bedrooms very close to central campus. 1014 Vaughn $3695
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller 1814 Geddes $3595
available too! All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are 8 Bedrooms
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively 325 E. Jefferson $4295
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to Many Studio, 1, and 2 1
schedule a personal showing with our ments available too!
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101. Management 734-995-92
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10. www.wilsonwhitemar
Efficiencies, 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms! campus@wilsonwhitem
Furnished, heat & water included, CAMPUS LARGE 4
FREE parking and Ethernet! prkg U d Ar 4u
Call today for an appointment to see! prkg,i ldry, non-smkr on3
Prime Student Housing includes all utilities (73
761-8000 primesh.com tpetiet@emerson-s
*Amenities varies by location GREAT 2 BDRM apt
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI- tion. Hea/water nluclu
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. 734-665-8825. www.can
Call today 741-9657. GREAT LOCATION,
CCRBA L5CATImN, 2
AVAIL. IMMED. 2 bdrm., hardwood CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 b
floor, full basement, 2 car garage, suit- screened front porch,
able for grad student. $1150/mo. Heat Room, d/w & microw
and waterincluded.(734)662-9446. lot behind house. 2 b
used as doubles! Call Pa
AVAILABLE FALL. HISTORICAL BLDG
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood Ho Ica L. Bd
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2 from campus. 6 Bdrm
blocks tel campus. 734-944-2405. Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parh
eluded. Unique, cot
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts. (734) 649-5549 anytime.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com HOUSE FOR RENT
5 or 6 people. Free prkg
BIG HSE: 5 lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons) dry. $2650/mo.+util. 24
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free dry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017. MAY LEASESAV
$500 OFF FIRST MO
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley. Up to $500 on select
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St. universitytowers
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. 734-761-26
www.varsitymonagement.com IMM EDIATE
V arSity OCCUPA
Maitagement
625 Church t.
(734) 668-1 100 Great location: 1320

jV

9

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com


bedrooms apart-
Wilson White
200
magement.com
anagement.com
bdrm. apt. furn.,
y, $1680/mo.
4)-973-6499.
chools.org
in prime loca-
ded. $1199/mo.
mpusrealty.com
2 doors east of
ath. house has
giant Living
ave. Parking in
Arms. could be
t 734-663-4101.
- 1.5 blocks
.-$2,800. Avail.
ing spaces in-
nvenient. Call
@ 904 Packard.
g. No pets. Free
48-895-4818.
AILABLE
NTHS RENT!
2 bedrooms
-mi.com
680
& FALL
NCY
S. University
Flexible Term
tREE Internet
ooms
y!

3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
BIG 2 BDRM. for 3 persons. 2 baths.
2 blocks from Union. Free heat/prkg.
Fall '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
**AVAIL. FALL '09.3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo,). 734.223.7777.

s

RELEASE DATE- Friday, January 30, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

917 Packard
Between Vaughn & E.
University
Large 2-bedroom
apartments
Each has a patio or balcony!
Great for3-4 people
Furnished, laundry, parking

Negotiable Rates & F
Furnished, Parking, F
l, 2 & 3 Bedre
Call Toda!

3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1500/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609

(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com

ACROSS DO
1 "them" author 1 Madiso
6 Bungles said"Y
11 "Gross!" havetc
14 Stretch with no havee
hits potato(
15 Half a "Star last me
Wars" name . 2 Unassi
16 Novelist Levin 3 __ prof
17 Suits? 4 Rulingl
19 Release from the 5 Rim su
team 6 Govt a
20 LPGA leading regulat
money winner 7 Rents
before Lorena 8 "In _
21 Mumbaititle Nirvana
22 Make blasd 9 Ring as
23 Bum 10 Red te
25 Like many cold 11 What y
drafts hearfro
27 Skiers may mutine.
egotiate them 12Gunk
129 Mild 13 Beckins
32 Actress Mendes 'The A'
et al, 18aKing's_
35 _ d'amour: 22 Plain ty
baroque 24 Kind of
instrument 26 Seasw
37 Bring up again, 28 Fire an
as a grievance brimsto
38 German article 30 Taylorc
39 Hint Feet Ur
41They, in 31 Once,c
Marseille 1 2 s
42 Contraption
,4Suit source 4
45 Agitted state cc
40 Saliva
eomponent 2a
45 Populartourist
spont 23
50 Subsa rent on it
52 Said grace, say
56hErode, with 32 33 a
"away"
58OCenter X, in a 38
game
6SWin over 42
6 Gran Paradiso, an
e.g.
62 Add up one's so
lasses?
64 Portuguese king 56 57
65 _ bee 6
66 Like highways
6 lennyanyduts's 64
creator, intially
r OSWearout? 67
09 Dummy Mortimer
ly t Ditel A.
(c)2009 Tribu

.....,....... ...., .1 .... .......... s.....,.

)WN
on who
You don't
o cook. I
nough
chips to
a year"
sted
fit
periods
pports
osmetics
tor
#1
i album
ctivity
tam?
you won't
oma n
er?
sale of
uviator"
pe?
card
allow
,d
one target
of "Six
cnder"
once

32 Advantage 53 "The Family
33 Hubristic Circus" cartoonist
34 Simple? 54 Anxious
36 Marsh hunter 55 "Judge _:
39 Roughly Stallone film
40 Formed by 56 Electrocautery
erosion target
43 Fiction 57 Basses, maybe
45 Nightlyvisitor of 59 1987 Best Actress
folklore Oscar winner
47 Really enjoys 62 Geometric figs.
49 Earfeatures 63 Tolkien's
51 San , Calif. Treebeard, e.g.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
FARAD F AaVrRa E T..i S
1 S T L E F R I E S R O M
T HE B 1 G F I V E O I W O
S E S A M E D I D G N A W
N O O K A I O L I
L A Y IS D O W N T H E L A W
D A T E R R S ON O R A
A I R N O W S P R Y
G E R T R U D E M C F U Z Z
E AT N O P E L T
D A MN F RO L O A V E S
E L I P R I C K L Y H E A T
B T U S E E T O D A N S E
T OM A E S O P S N I T S
xwordeditor@aol.com 01/30/09

a

i 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 16
18 19
21 22
24 25 28
27 28 29 30 31
14 35 36 37
39 40 41
43 45
47 48 49
i0 51 52 53 54 55
58 59 80
82 63
65 68
68 89
Finan 01/30/09
June Media Services, Inc.

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:
Rates: $4.30 per linefo
additional consecutive is
contact our staff for deta
ads are placed in person
business ads only) * All a
have been established."
Discover, cash, or check
of our Account ExecutivE
I day
2 lines 8.60
3 lines 12.90
4 lines 17.20
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbr
TMD for failure to publish an advertis
shall be limited to publishing in a sub
will be responsible for classified adve
Rates: All changes shown on the o
consecutive rate if requested and pa
Advertisers may cancel an ad before
been published. Refusal: All ads ar
resale of tickets at more than face va
accepting advertising.

30am one business day prior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
r the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each 020 - For Sae
sue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
ils * Students may receivea 25% discount when 030- Automotive
with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040- Computers
ds must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
045 - Technology
We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
* For Classified Display advertising, please call one
s 060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120- Announcements
eviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
ement forany reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
sequent issue and not more than the cost ofone incorrect inseftion. TMD 125 - Music
rtisenent errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
pen rates lines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended ata 130 - Roommates
id in full by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
publication deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
e subject to editing and approval. We do not publish advertisements for 150 - Personal
lue. TMD reserves the ght togrequest samples oflmail order items prior to 160-Pets

0

0

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

)Pol:,6ls

Friday, January 30, 2009 - 7

i

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 30, 2009 - 7

ICE HOCKEY
Wolverines face No.1
Notre Dame in rematch

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan hockey coach Red
Berenson is hoping this season's
series against Notre Dame can rep-
resent a role reversal.
Last year, the
Wolverines held MicA n at
the nation's top
ranking for most Notre Dame
of the season. Matchup:
A path to the Michigan
NCAA Cham- 18-8; Notre
pionship game Dame 19-3-3
seemed almost When: Tonight
guaranteed. 8:05 P.M.
Notre Dame, Where: Joyce
on the other Center
hand, struggled
through its regu TV: CBSports
lar season. The
Fighting Irish Blog: http://
were swept by thegame.
Michigan in blogs.michi-
January, finished gandaily.com
fourth in the
CCHA and snuck
into the NCAA Tournament as a
fourth seed in the West Regional.
But Notre Dame got hot when it
mattered, storming through region-
al play and shocking the Wolverines
in a 5-4 overtime win in the Frozen
Four to reach the national champi-
onship game.
And this weekend's home-and-
home series marks the first meeting
between the teams since that semi-
final game.
This time, the Irish come into the
matchup as the top team in the coun-

try, unbeaten in 20 straight contests.
The Wolverines (12-6-0 CCHA,
18-8-0 overall) are the ones with
questions. Though they've won nine
of the last 10 games, five of those
wins came against CCHAbasement-
dweller MichiganState,leadingsome
to discount their recent success.
"They're playing like we were last
year, and we're playing maybe like
they were," Berenson said. "We've
got something to prove."
Berenson hopes his team gains
momentum heading into March,
much like Notre Dame did last year.
He knows it takes just a few back-
to-back wins to advance deep into
postseason play.
"I hope we play our best hockey
down the stretch," Berenson said.
"When you coach, that's your
goal - for everyone to improve, the
team to come together and finally
build to your best for last."
Tonight is the start of that final
stretch.
Michigan has just 10 games
remaining in the regular season,
and if it hopes to secure a first-round
bye in the CCHA Tournament, it
needs to win almost all of them. The
Wolverines probably can't catch the
Irish, who have essentially locked
up the top seed, but they could end
up second with a strong finish.
Fortunately for Michigan, it's
playing its best hockey right now.
The staunch defense is allowingjust
2.15 goals per game on average, and
all four lines of forwards are con-
tributing offensively.
Early-season injuries have faded.

Junior defenseman Steve Kampfer
will return to the ice this weekend
after a brief hospitalization for a
head injury. Senior captain Mark
Mitera practiced with the team this
week for the first time since suffer-
ing a knee injury in early October.
He remains on track for a possible
return before the postseason.
The team has also stepped up in
big games, making especially loud
statements against rivals Miami
(Ohio) and Michigan State in the
past month.
But tonight will be the biggest
test so far this season, and the Wol-
verines think they'll be ready to
respond. Still, it will take near-per-
fect play to pull off the upset.
"If we don't play our best hockey,
it's not going to be a good outcome,"
senior forward Tim Miller said.
"We'llbringour best, and hopefully,
that'll be enough."
But Berenson isn't sure that atti-
tude is the right approach to an
opponent like Notre Dame.
"I sense good things going on in
practice, but we still have a lot to
prove," Berenson said. "We can't
just go, 'If we play our best, we'll
beat this team.' We don't know. I
don't know if we can."
And while there's certainly bit-
terness from last April's contest,
according to junior acting captain
Chris Summers, Michigan remains
focused on what it must prove.
"It's going to be huge," Summers
said. "We have to make sure guys
are going to come ready to play and
show up (tonight)."

ANNA BAKMA/Osf
Senior Melinda Queen defends Ohio State forward Star Allen in last night's 52-44 loss. Queen had10 had a team-high 10 point
Michigan can't stop Lavender,

the michigan daily 'emal:>co" Con

By TIM ROHAN Michigan was led. by Queen and
Daily Sports Writer freshman guard Courtney Boylan,
who both notched 10 points.
The Michigan women's basket- Lessthanaminuteintothegame,
ball team finally heeded the grade sophomore Veronica Hicks dove on
school cheer: "Be aggressive, B-E the floor for a loose ball. She came
Aggressive, B-E A-G-G-R-E-S-S-I- up angry after being called for trav-
V-E." eling and Benson quickly covered
Unfortunately for the Wolver- Hicks' mouth, but she couldn't hide
ines,theiraggressionwasn'tenough Hicks' intensity. The urgency was
to clinch a obvious from the start.
victory OHIO STATE 52 Hicks proceeded to score the
against MICHIGAN 44 game's first points on the next pos-
No. 15 session.
Ohio State last night. Michigan Michigan drove to the basket
attacked the basket with backdoor in the first half, finishing strong
cuts, good positioning and nifty in the lane. Its efforts led to easy
passes but couldn't pull out the vic- baskets and trips to the free-throw
tory, losing 52-44 at Crisler Arena. line, and the team's first eight
For the second consecutive points came on layups. The Wol-
game, junior center Krista Phil- verines shot 8-of-11 from the char-
lips started over senior Stephany ity stripe in the first 20 minutes.
Skrba to defend a bigger opponent. Michigan led by one at halftime
This time, it was junior Jantel Lav- despite not making a single field
ender, the Buckeyes' best player. goal for the final 10 minutes and
Not stopping her down the 32 seconds. The free throws made
stretch proved to be the deciding the difference in the first half - but
factor in the game. that all changed in the second.
"I thought we did a good job The Wolverines didn't shoot a
in the first half (defending Lav- single free throw after the break
ender)," Michigan coach Kevin and Ohio State powered its way to
Borseth said. "In the second half, the free-throwline,shootingl16-of-
they shot 20 free throws. They shot 20 freebies in the final frame.
a lot around that basket. ... They Trading basket for basket
(just said) 'We're goingto throw it throughout the game, Michigan
in there, and see if you can stop us,' cut the Buckeye lead to two with
and we just didn't do it." just under three minutes to play.
Lavender, who won her fourth Hicks started to bring the ball up
Big Ten Player of the Week award the court but Ann Arbor native
on Tuesday, came into the game and Ohio State guard Shavelle
averaging a gaudy 21.6 points and Little tipped it away. Her effort led
11.1 rebounds per game. To put to a three-pointer by sophomore
those numbers into context, seniors guard Brittany Johnson from the
Melinda Queen, Carly Benson and left wing that created an insur-
Skrba came into the game averag- mountable Buckeye lead.
ing 24 points per game and 12.7 The Wolverines proceeded to
rebounds per game combined. turn the ball over on their next
Lavender finished the game two possessions and Michigan
with 17 points and nine rebounds. was outscored 14-5 in the last 10

minutes of the game.
TheBuckeye winimproved Ohio
State coach Jim Foster's record to
an impressive 10-0 mark against
Michigan. He could have learned
the secret to success from his pre-
decessors - the Buckeyes have now
won 45 of the 51 all-time matchups
between the two schools.
Though Ohio State's defense
gave Michigan trouble in the two
teams' first matchup, the Wolver-
ines handled the scheme well on
Thursday.
"I thought we handled (the pres-
sure) a lot better tohight," Borseth
said. "(Little) got a steal and to
me, that was critical. That led to a
three-point shot. That was huge."
* Michigan shot 2-of-20 from
beyond the arc, with Boylan respon-
sible for both baskets. But when the
Ohio State defense tightened during
crunch time, the Wolverines con-
tinued to take 3-pointers instead
of driving to the lane. Borseth
defended the "in rhythm" shots and
shrugged his shoulders at the fact
that the shots didn't fall.
Michigan stays at home to face
Wisconsin (4-6, 14-7) on Sunday.
A few weeks ago, Michigan lost by
four points inMadison, which was
the loss that sparked their current
six-game losing streak.
And the Wolverines will find
out how much heart they really
have soon enough.
' "It is pretty easy to show up
to practice after you win games,"
Borseth said. "But when you lose
games time after time, then you
find out a lot about yourself.
"It comes down to tomor-
row. I'll be able to see when they
walk through that door whether
they have fire in their eyes or fire
in their belly. That's what they
need."

WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mm. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hi11 and
Church. $825 -$925. 734-260-4003.
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
WE WILL BE there - will you? U of
H Housing Fair, Michigan Uoioo ball-
room 02-04-09 12-4:30; we will
have deals, specials, giveaways, and
fancy dress! Stop by and find your
S housing for next year ...now! Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
!3-Bedrooms! 1346 & 1506 Geddes:
Only 1 left @ each location
331 Catherine: Two apartments in a
large house, great Kerrytown location.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 661-1100.
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
InclHeat/Water/Parking
www.HPAAcom 996-4992.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big hedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
326 B. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

hp watd
HOUSE CLEANER wanted for occa-
sional work. Within walking distance
of school. Schedule flexible. $12/hr.
sunstein@umich.edu
TEST OUR PRODUCT and Get Free
Stuff! Ann Arbor tech startup seeks
volunteers to test our software product.
Your input will directly help drive our
product! TestOurProduct@gmail.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
LIFEGUARD (ON-CALL). The
Health & Fitness Center at WCC is cur-
rently accepting applications for an On-
Call Lifeguarding Position. To apply,
please go to the Employment section of
our website, www.wccfitness.org, and
complete the online application.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com

M!lBARTENDINGlM! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE Ut $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED to re-
design website for Ann Arbor based
company. Flexible hrs/work from
home. Pay hourly or by the job. Please
call Jon (734) 677-5562.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAF. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No expert-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

Wolverines have a lot of questions
to answer before the Purdue game

For Saturday, Jan. 3t, 2009
ARIES
(March 21lto April 19)
Delays with career plans or important
deals with bosses are over. Now you can
count on people being more receptive to
your new ideas and-new ways of doing
things.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Everything related to publishing, the
media, higher education, medicine and
the law will start to be more efficient and
have fewer errors. (Thank heavens!)
GEMINI
(May 2110o June 29)
New ideas about loans, mortgages,
inheritances, insurance matters and any-
thing to do with shared property might
start to get off the ground now. The
delays ond mix-ups will be far less now.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Important discussions with partners
and close friends can go forward with
'reater success now. Delays involvine
rehashing old business are almost over.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
It's been a headache at work lately.
Confused communication, delays, silly
errors and glitches have been frustrating.
Now these are coming to an end.
Finally! (Whew!)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Creative projects can get the green
light now. Distractions with old flames
and romantic partners from the past are
over. Plans for vacations look promising.
Forward ho!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Visiting relatives have now gone
home. It's tite to reclaim your domestic
routine and make friends with where you
live (so that it (eels right to you.)

SCORPIO
(Oct. 231to Nov. 21)
The past six weeks havebeen prone to
errors, accidents, delays and transporta-
tion breakdowns. All these snafus and
mix-ups will be greatly reduced from
here on. Glory hallelujah!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Money matters are more predictable in
the immediate future. Past business and
delays with checks being late in the mail
and whatnot are behind you now.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
I's been frustrating dealing with silly
errors, delays, transportation break-
downs and confused communication
with everyone. (You almost felt like a
fool.) Thank heavens this time is now
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You feel more confident about your
future. You have a stronger and clearer
idea now about how things are going to
play out.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Although you've been thinking of old
goals, now it's time to return to those
bright, "new" ideas you had about your
future. Let yourself get revved up again
about those hopes and dreams you were
nurturing before.
YOU BORN TODAY It's important
for you to be heard or seen for whatever
you do. You need recognition for your
work. Because of your excellent social
skills and attractive demeanor, it's easy
for you to get the admiration you seek.
At this stage in your life, it's important
for you to learn something new and valu-
able. You'll be able to do that this com-.
ing year!
Birthdate of Nolan Ryan, baseball
Hall-of-Famer; Zane Grey, author;
Suzanne Pleshette, actress.

N none would argue that
the Michigan men'sbas-
ketball team isn't drasti-
cally improved from last year's
squad.
The Wol-
verines lost
a program-
record 22
games last *
year and
weren't even
good enough
to earn an ANDY
invite to REID
the College
Basketball
Invitational, the tournament that
takes teams not good enough to
play in the National Invitational
Tournament, which is for teams not
good enough to make the NCAA
Tournament.
This season, Michigan has, at
times, looked like a legitimate Big
Ten title contender, topplingteams
like Duke, UCLA and Illinois to
build one of the best early-season
tournament resumes in the nation.
Sophomore Manny Harris was
on his 'A'-game, putting up big
numbers while still finding ways to
dish the ball to teammates.
Junior DeShawn Sims looked
like one of the most improved play-
ers in the Big Ten.
And Michigan coach John Bei-
lein was enjoyingthe peak of the
"rollercoaster" - an analogythat
he has used all season.
Since then, the ride's been a
bit shakier. Wednesday night, the
Wolverineswere manhandled by
a taller, more physical Ohio State
team and began to look more and
more like last year's team.
"Sometimes, thingsjust don't

go our way," Harris said after the
Wolverines' 72-58 loss to Purdue on
March 9, 2008. "This year, it hasn't
been going our way, and we haven't
been playing all 40 minutes of bas-
ketball.".
Harris may as well have been
talking aboutthe team's Big Ten
slate this year.
Just five field goals, 18 points
and 12 turnovers in the first half
Wednesday night against Ohio
State.
Shooting12.6 percent from
3-point range in a loss to Penn
State.
Scoreless for almost nine min-
utes in a win over Northwestern.
Tomorrow, Michigan travels to
Mackey Arena to take on the Boil-
ermakers for the first time since
that game, and the same problems
seem to be plaguing the team as it
enters arguably thetoughest part of
its regular-season schedule.
The Wolverines are struggling
to play a full 40 minutes - and it's
imperative that they start now.
Michigan's next 10 days look like
this: at Purdue tomorrow, home
against resurgent Penn State on
Thursday, at Connecticut Saturday
and home against Michigan State
on Feb. 10.
Purdue is a team on a mission,
coming in at No. 2 in the Big Ten in
both scoring offense and scoring
defense and winning games by an
astounding average of 13.8 points.
Coming into the year, the Boil-
ermakers had just aboutthe loftiest
goals a team can have.
"Oh, a national championship,"
junior Keaton Grant said when
asked about what he expected from
this season atfBig Ten Media Day
in October. "That's it. Nothing less,

nothing more. A national champi-
onship."
When told about Grant's state-
ments, Purdue coach Matt Painter
couldn't help but laugh athis mis-
sion.
"He's got high goals," he said
at Big Ten MediaDay. "We've had
some tough days at Purdue. We've
continued to stay positive and work
hard to make strides....We do have
high goals, to win a championship
and put ourselves in the best posi-
tion to make the NCAA Tourna-
ment."
Even though the Boilermakers
may not look like ateam that will
be cutting downthe nets in March,
the team is vastly improved from
last year, especially in one particu-
lar department that Painter has
been focused on all season:
"Rebounding," Painter said suc-
cinctly at Big Ten Media Day. "We
have to be a better rebounding
team."
The Boilermakers are second-
best in the conference atcgrabbing
boards, snagging more than 36 a
game. That could makethis contest
even tougher for the Wolverines,
since Beilein's 1-3-1 zone defense
rarely emphasizes rebounding,
meaning the Boilermakers may eas-
ily extend several possessions with
offensive rebounds.
But Michigan can't afford to
start sluggish, toss up too many ill-
timed 3-point attempts, fail to box
out or simply not score for extended
periods of time. And the team's
back-to-basics approach needs to
start tomorrow againstthe Boiler-
makers.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.

1-3 PERS. APT. May-Mid-Aug.
Great location! 3rd floor at U-Towers.
Furnished, . FREE cable/inter-
net/heat/water. $1100/mo.
810.923.0964 / dkaz@umich.edu
ser v iCes
Ig A
U-M PH.D. offers expert science/tech-
nology editing for dissertations, re-
search papers. SciTech, (734) 668-
7864 or srhtech@comcast.net
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0 2009 King Futeares Syndicatetnc.


8 -- Friday, January 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

I

.-

1,~

0


