IE fic1143n BaI1j

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, February 17, 2009

michigandaily.com

SELLING THE BLOCK M
'U'credit
card deal
criticized
11-year contract with BY THE NUMBERS
Bank of America 70,000
worth $25.5 million Total numberoftaccounts
for the University $2.5 MILLION
Total account revenue from 2008
By NICOLE ABER
Daily StaffReporter 1,500
When students use credit cards Student accounts open under this contract
sporting the iconic block 'M', $25,000
they're supporting more than justo
sc-heel spirit - th'ey'e,alsosu- Stadent accountlrevenae

Athletic Director Bill Martin discusses several issues regarding the Athletic Department during a Senate Assembly meeting in Palmer Commons yesterday-
Mart in talks state of athletics

Athletic director
discussed academics,
fiscal situation
facing department
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
Athletic Director Bill Mar-
tin reported improvements in
student-athlete academic per-

formance when he spoke before
members of the Senate Assembly
yesterday. Despite improvements
in the classroom, though, Martin
said the Athletic Department is
bracing for a financial hit in light
of a down economy.
In addition the Athletic Depart-
ment's fiscal situation, Mar-
tin discussed improvements in
student-athlete academic per-
formance and gave an update on
construction at Michigan Stadium.
He also spoke about the faculty

bowl perks practice for which the
department has come under some
criticism.
Martin said the Athletic Depart-
ment is in good financial condition
at this point, but that it could be
soon be affected by the country's
economic downturn.
"Do I believe the current eco-
nomic situation in our country
and in the world is going to have
an impact on Michigan athletics?"
Martin said. "Yes I do, definitely."
Although the department has

not yet seen a financial downturn,
Martin said it is likely forthcom-
ing.
"I think we'll possibly see a soft-
ening of some of our development
activities and our donor gifts that
we receive," he said, adding corpo-
rate sponsorships may also fall.
Martin updated members of
the Senate Assembly on the Big
House's construction, saying he
was very proud of the project and
clarifying that the project's goal
See MARTIN, Page 7

porting a profitable relationship
between the University's Alumni
Association and Bank of America
worth $25.5 million.
Under anti-year contract, which
started in June 2003, the Alum-
ni Association provides Bank of
America with student and alumni
information, and in return the
Alumni Association reaps revenue
based on the number of credit card
accounts that are opened.
Although the Alumni Associa-
tion says the contract is directed
at University alumni and not solely
at students, the association makes
$25,000 per year from student
accounts. Other schools across
the country have similar credit
cards deals, which have come
under review from Congress and
from critics who argue that such
accounts are a contributing factor
to rising student credit card debt.

DEFENDING THE
CONTRACT
Jerry Sigler, senior vice presi-
dent and chief financial officer of
the University's Alumni Associa-
tion, defended the contract with
Bank of America, saying that the
association puts more funds into
student programming and schol-
arships than the amount of money
generated from students opening
credit card accounts.
Sigler said there are 70,000
alumni accounts opened under the
contract, and only 1,500 student
accounts. From these 1,500 student
accounts, the University receives
$25,000 per year.
Last year, Sigler said the Alumni
Association put $650,000 into 370
scholarships and funds for students
from the $2.5 million it generated
See CREDIT CARDS, Page 3


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
Michigan Vision
Party holds first
mass meeting

MIDDLE EAST CONFLICT
Controversial figure in Israel-Palestine
debate to speak at University tonight

Nor
cri
on

Party leaders talk
plans for reshaping
student government
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Vision Party, one
of the main contenders heading
into next month's Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly elections, hosted
its first mass meeting last night in
Mason Hall.
MSA's most prominent party in
recent election cycles, the Michi-
gan Action Party, has effectively
dissolved, leading to the creation of
two separate groups. Both groups,
the reMICHIGAN campaign and
MVP, are headed by former MAP
members.
Public Policy senior Jeremy
Borowitz, MVP's external commu-
nications chair, began the evening
by introducing the party's presi-
dential and vice presidential candi-
dates, Engineering junior Abhishek
Mahanti and LSA junior Mike
Rorro, respectively.
Mahanti and Rorro then took
the floor, explaining the intricacies
of MSA and the potential they see
for its success. In particular, they
stressed their desire to make MSA
more accessible to students.
"We're very willing to listen, to
talk about your experiences within

MSA,to make a cohesive vision that
we can all agree on," Rorro said.
They also listed immediate ways
they would try to improve student
government. They said they would
like td create a neighborhood watch
and hold MSA office hours in more
accessible places like the Diag and
on North Campus.
A question-and-answer session
then followed, with Mahanti and
Rorro asking the group of about 45
students for critiques and sugges-
tions for MSA.
Students asked the runsning
mates what they thoughtrauparty
system brings to the election and
how they plan to hold representa-
tives accountable after the election
is over, complaining of MAP rep-
resentatives not following through
with campaign promises.
Several MVP members said the
new party wouldn't be just a "vehi-
cle to get elected."
"MAP wasn't so much a party
as it was a political machine to get
elected," Mahanti said.
Audience members suggested
establishing a better connection
between the student body and stu-
dent government and improving
efficiency in the Office of Interna-
tional Programs.
Throughout the meeting, Mah-
anti and Rorro said they wanted
MSA to be transparent, account-
able and efficient.
See MASS MEETING, Page 7

'man Finkelstein at the University about the current
state of the conflict.
tiCized for views The event, hosted by the pro-
Palestinian group, Students Allied
the 'Holocaust for Freedom and Equality (SAFE),
will be held tomorrow evening at
Industry 7:30 p.m. on the fourth floor of the
Rackham Graduate School. The
By JASMINE ZHU event is titled "The Israel-Pales-
Daily StaffReporter tine Conflict: What We Can Learn
From Gandhi."
tical scientist and author Finkelstein has a long and con-
an Finkelstein, whose fields troversial history with regard
arch include the politics of to the region. Among his work
olocaust and the Israeli-Pal- is a book entitled, "The Holo-
in conflict, will be speaking caust Industry: Reflections on the

FOR A VIEWPOINT
FROM SAFE ON THE
FINKELSTEIN EVENT,
SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Exploitation of Jewish Suffering."
The book - which argues that
the American . Jewish popula-
tion has used the history of the
Holocaust to defend Israel and for
financial and political gain - has
been the subject of much debate
since it was published in 2000.
The child of two Holocaust sur-

vivors, Finkelstein argues in the
book that "The Holocaust Indus-
try" has commercialized Jewish
culture and corrupted the event's
history.
After his open criticism of the
Israeli government, Finkelstein
was denied entry into the coun-
try on May 23, 2008. Israeli secu-
rity officials said the decision was
based on Finkelstein's anti-Zionist
opinions. Subsequently, Israel
banned Finkelstein from entering
the country for 10 years.
In June 2007, DePaul University
See FINKELSTEIN, Page 7

Poli
Norm:
of rese
the Hi
estinia

Panera Bread to open on campus in late March

Company official
says tough economy
not a concern
By SAGAR DESHPANDE
For the Daily
Set to be the newest addition to
the Ann Arbor sandwich shop cir-
cuit, Panera Bread is expected to
open for business on South Thayer
Street in mid-March.
Located across from Hill Audi-
torium and next to the Jamaican
Jerk Pit, the new restaurant will
be the fifth Panera Bread in Ann
Arbor.
The new restaurant, which took
overthespace thatformerlyhoused
the University's payroll office, will

cover over 4,200 square feet and
span both levels of the building.
Lee Carmona, area director for
Panera Bread, said additional seat-
ing was added to make the location
student-friendly and cater to the
needs of computer users. Patrons
will order upstairs and have the
choice of seating on both levels.
Carmona said between 40 and
50 new associates and managers
will be hired to staff the restau-
rant.
Despite the state's ailing econ-
omy, Carmona said it had little
impact on the decision to open a
new restaurant.
"We're in pretty good finan-
cial shape as a company and we're1"
goinsg to continue to grow," he said.
"The reason we've committed to cHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
See PANERA, Page 3 The logo for Panera Bread adorns its future storefront near campus.


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 37
LO: 23

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsyvmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Submit to The Statement's literature edition.
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS.....
Vol. CXIX,No. 96 SUDOKU..
(Q009The Michigan Daily OPINION.
michigandoily.com

.............2 ARTS. . . ..,....... 5
.....................3 CLASSIPIEDS ...E.D..... ........ 6
................... .4 S P O R T S ...............I...:..........8



2 - Tuesday, February 17, 2009

MONDAY: TEDY
In Other Ivory Towers Capshrcts

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Explained Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

i#

To a 10-year-c
are fleeting wor
hand and nind t
intermittently al
ties or during e
funny uncles. Bi
he was 10, LSA
Smola wasn't ju:
magic - he was
the magician.
Smola's passi
began when he r
set for Christinas
was performing
erings and was
YMCA to do a
year of starting.
For many kit
in the world ofi
be a passing pha
focus remained.
pair of birds a:
from performi
tricks into wea'
many tricks togs
Throughout h:

Do you believe in magic?'
rid, magic tricks has performed at birthday par- 14 other contestants from around
Zdccv sleight of ties, fairs, restaurants and cur- the world to make the finals.
tricks appearing porate events. He doesn't have a Smola said he doesn't have a
tbirthday par- stage name but presents his act favorite trick but loves working
ocounters with with the slogan, "The Artistic with his doves, even though they
cut by the time Magic of Alan Smola." can be challenging and unpre-
freshman Alan Even when he's not onstage, dictable at times. Stylistically,
at marveling at Smola is poised to perform. Smola said he tends to favor more
booking jobs as "I always carry something classical magic tricks as opposed
with me so if anyone bumps into to the work of contemporary art-
ion for magic me and says 'Hey, you're that ists like David Blamne.
-eceived a magic magic guy, show me a trick,' I've A career in magic, while enric-
s. Soon after, he got something to do," he said. ing, is unstable, Smola said, so
at family gath- Smola has his own website he made the decision to pursue a
shired by the to book shows and performs college career in lieu of movingrto
show within a mostly on weekends. He also Las Vegas. Regardless of whether
started a club on campus called magic becomes his livelihood,
ds, an interest Shazaam that performs and Smola said it will always be a part
illusions would does charity magic shows. The of his life.
ase, but Smola's group did its first show last "I would love to do it full
.At 12, he got a semester, raising over $500 for time, but if that doesn't end up
ad transitioned Dance Marathon. working out I'll get a regular
ing disparate Last February, Smola compet- job," Smola said. "But I couldn't
'ing a show of ed at a competition in Las Vegas imagine not doing it."
ther. called "The World Magic Semi- - CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
is career, Smola nar." He was chosen along with AND LINDSAYKRAMER

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom4
420 Maynard SL.
Anan Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editar in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-01558
graca@inichiga,,daity.cae, hagtisyrriehigasdaitycem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehos: aSun.-Thrs,. 11a.m. - 2a.
Neas Tips nws,@michigcandaily.com
Correctiors crrionsm ichigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor rtothedaily@,,richigardaiy.cem {
Photography Departmert p hoto@nichiandaity.com I
Arts Settionr nsvaga.@ichicandaity.cm
Editorial Pate opinion@msiciandaiy.com
Spurts Sectiar sports@ichignrdaiy.corm
Display Sates display@nmiciandaiy.com
Classified Sales casifid@nichigandaily.com
OnlineSales onlineads@n~ichicadaiy.cem
Firarce fir~ssnc@michigandaiy.cm
EDITORIAL STAFF
tourtrey Ralkoniak MnagiguEdio r rtkowiak@mihigardaily.com
Jacoh SnitaVite Ms,,ganagigNw ditornmilvit@ichiandaiy.cn
SENIR NWS EITO S:Aian Berman,, TrevorsCalro,,JlRowev, Lin.dyrtvn
SIS ANTNES EDITRSa tt sAarosn,Benjamin S . ChaseCaitlin Schneider,
Rohert SoaVe tditoriat Page Eitr r aec~higandaiy.com
ASSISANT DITOIAL AGE DITOSEad Asari, Emma Jesk~e, ahShtrhs,
Ardy Reid Managing Sporrasitr reiddnihigardiy.con
SE 0 PRSEIOSicole Auebac,MikeEise, Da F~ea, ldn, Chr5is
David Watricaa g ,,inguArtditr wtnaik@michigandailyscom
vSIRsARS EDIORS Jamie Blck,radon ConrsadisWitneyePow
ASSISTANT ARTDTR:sa By~er, Andrew Lpi, Daeep,aBen Vaneagor~r
Zachary Meisner and'photo@michigandailyrcom
tliftReeder ManagingPhto raditrs
SEIRP OOEITR~SSaid lAsala, haneo absbuar-Lthigen
ASISArnsNTPOTOEIOS:MaClls, rs Dzombak,Rob iri, S am,,5rla,,
Argela thih ard design@michigandaily.com
Maareen Stych ManagingDeaignr Editors
Jessita Vosgerchiar Magazine Editrvosgercchiar@michigaadaiy.com
David Meriar Multimasdia Editrn mnriaa@,aichigandaiy.cam 4
Katherire Mitthell copychief mitchell@michigadaiy.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Sthroterhaer Display AdveringeSalrs Manager
Newanr,Christie Philips
Ryan Basiraki Clavsified SalesManagerc
Classfidrales ssant Managr:,,Aison Thoas
Marissa Gerher 5Online SalesMvnugerr
Bea Erglish Productiio, Design steaerr
Meryl Hlteng Layoutangern
Vivian Lee ard Enily Loveless FinuanceManages
The Michigan aly(SmSs74-67 s patise Ma tro ghrday dvringtheal ard inrt
termsrbytdntateiesityof Mihian. Oervopy isavalalirofchrargr toall reader.
Aiolcorpes maylbepicved u areDi' fice frrv$rf Suscrprtvosfrfall trm, starting in
Srper ia US.na ril 11.ritrtrm nuararouh Avpvril) is 115 yarlag(Seper~a
thrgh ii s $15. Univrityaflaresarrvsubret tanireudsbripin rate.r:On-campas
suriptionfr vfall termca're$5.Surirponatlprpa.TrhhgaDalysaaamrnof~
TheAssoatedPresyardTrherAssocitrColegterPres

L5A freshman Alas Sinsla, a professivnal magician, aways carres
something with him vast in case a fan recoenizes him and asks to see a
trick. Hia act is called "The Artistic Magic of Alan Smola.'
CRIME NOTES

. _ _R

...... _ .. .... a ..

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Baits resident Oxford Res Hall Talk on weight
cited for drugs bulletin board and mortality

WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Sunday at about 5:45
WHAT: A staff person report-
ed seeing a person using a con-
trolled substance, University
Police reported. A warrant was
issued for the student's arrest.
Police are inavestigating the
incident.

damaged
WHERE: Seeley House, Dxford
Residence Hall
WHEN: Saturday at about 6:1S
WHAT: A residence hsall staff
member reported damage to
a bulletin board, University
Police reported. The value of
the bulletin board was $25.

WHAT: Eatherine Flegal,
a senior research scientist
anad distinguished consultant
for the National Center for
Health Statistics, will discuss
issues of weight and mortality.
WHO: Institute for Research
on Wonmen and Gender
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m.
to 5:30 p.nm.
WHERE: Room 2239, Lanse
Hall

Poetry reading
WHAT: Author Josie
Rearns will read frona her
new book of poems, "The
Theory of Everything."
WHO: Universe Theme
Semaester
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.ma.
WHERE: Shaman Drum
Bookstore
Tips on law
school survival
WHAT: University Law
School students will share
tips and strategies for suc-
cess mth current under-
graduates looking to go to
law school.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
*WHERE: Kuenzel Room,
Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.comn.

UnalttendMichigan film
wallt stlen MIPs issued at incentives talk

1Northwest Airlines pas-
sengers have coamplained
about the air carrier -add-
ing peanuts to its snack menu
after the conmpany mverged
with Delta Air Lines, CNN
reported. Passengers with
allergies were upset with the
decisiona.
2The Michigan baseball
team, which has won
the last tharee Big Ten
Championships, was picked
by Baseball America to fin-
ish second in the conference,
behind Indiana.
>>FOR MORE, SEE MICHIGAN DAILYCOM
3Japan's Finsance Minis-
ter Shoichi Nakagawa
resigned yesterday after
allegations that he was drunk
at a Group of Seven press cona-
ference in Rome, The New
York Times reported. Naka-
gawa denies he was drunk.
Earlier, he told lawmakers his
speech was slurred because
he had taken double the pre-
scribed dose of a medicine.

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 9:10
p.m.
WHAT: A University stu-
dent's wallet was stolen after
being left unattenaded at the
Graduate Library, University
Police reported. The wallet
contained assorted identifica-
tion cards.

South Quad
WHERE: South Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Saturday at about 1:25
WHAT: Three University stur-
dents were cited for ninor in
possession of alcohol, Univer-
sity Police reported.

WHAT: A panel discus-
sion on what the state of
Michigan's film incentive
program does for the state
anad University of Michigan
graduates.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 P.na.
WHERE: Michigan Union


I

4

4

4

A HUGE, LOW PRICED SELECTION including Designer Brands...
Oor 6000 mf odom oridogy
20125 Ann Arbor Trail at EvergreenI Dearborn HtS. #'600 N. Telegraph across rom tammit Mail Pontiac
a1410 E. Michigan at Michigan & Rantis Ypsilanti '345 N. Maple so Miape VilageI Ann Arbor
a25646 8 Mile at Betch-DltI Southfield #'33955 Gratiot between 14& 15 MiteI Clinton Twp.
.2001 11 Mile comeratf DeaquiodreI Warren a21615 Ecorse it sunrise tr1 Taylor
a34460 Ford eastatfWayne; Westland ' 24900 Kelly attno Mite East Pointe
a22150 Coolidge all9 MiteI Oak Park '8300 Woodward* Detroit
a12125 Dix hetween Nrthine &Gonddard Southgalte
All states EXCEPT Detroit Woodward spen: Msu Sat gam- 9pm; Sun t Oam -e6pm
5Detoit Weodward open: Mon- Sat gam 5 pm; San 1Oam hy6m
.......o o ff,...,._,..

We can, help!
Ad-Rising appointm~ents available same day.
CaIll] 764-7460 o r more information.

The Career Center
^ : .civ~ sirys fet 1 r a 5 5 visria. 5 a . 5 a. s ra 5 5ai


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Tuesday, February 17, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Michigan still
getting details on
stimulus plan
President Barack Obama is
about to sign a stimulus package
into law, and Michigan residents
soon will have a chance to see how
cities, schools and universities
would like to use the money.
Gov. Jennifer Granholm's office
is working on a Web site that
will explain how much stimulus
money Michigan will get once the
president signs the package on
Tuesday.
The site also will include the
types of programs that are expect-
ed to benefit from the stimulus,
including' Medicaid, job retrain-
ing, education and building proj-
ects, among other items.
A separate Web site showing
the funding requests from local
governments, schools and univer-
sities also is being readied.
On Monday, the Michigan
Townships Association proposed
a list of 500 projects, most road,
water and sewer improvements.
Members of the Michigan Munici-
pal League have listed their own
$3.3 billion for 1,200 suggested
projects, although only a portion
are expected to get funded.
"It's expected that Governor
Granholm will lay out this week
a process for the funds to come to
the state," Granholm spokeswom-
an Liz Boyd said Monday.
COLUMBIA, S.C.
S.C. sheriff: No pot
charge for Phelps
A South Carolina sheriff said
Monday he was not going to charge
swimmer Michael Phelps after a
photo of the 14-time gold medalist
showed him smoking from a mari-
juana pipe.
Richland County Sheriff Leon
Lottsaidhecouldn'tignorethe photo
but defended his investigation.
"Michael Phelps is truly an
American hero ... but even with
his star status, he is still obligated
to obey the laws of our state," Lott
said.
The photo showed Phelps smok-
ingfrom amarijuana pipe at a party
in November when he visited the
University of South Carolina.
CLARENCE, N.Y.
New discoveries
could reveal what
caused plane crash
Investigators have located key
components that might help reveal
what the pilot did to try to save
Flight 3407 during its final des-
perate seconds, when the plane
plunged to the ground so suddenly
that sending a mayday was impos-
sible, an investigator said Monday.
After a seemingly routine flight,
the airplane endured a 26-sec-
ond plunge before smashing into

a house in icy weather about six
miles from Buffalo Niagara Inter-
national Airport on Thursday
night, killing 49 people on the
plane and one on the ground.
On Monday, families of the vic-
tims visited the site for the first
time and placed roses to remem-
ber the dead.
National Transportation Safety
Board member Steve Chealander
said investigators have located the
steering column, or yoke; all the
propeller blades; five of six deicing
valves; and rubber bladders designed
to protect the tail from ice.
PESHAWAR, Pakistan
Pakistan inks truce
with militants
Pakistan agreed Monday to
suspend military offensives and
impose Islamic law in part of the
restive northwest, making a ges-
ture it hopes will help calm the
Taliban insurgency while reject-
ing Washington's call for tougher
measures against militants.
A U.S. defense official called the
deal"anegativedevelopment," and
some Pakistani experts expressed
skepticism the truce would
decrease violence. One human
rights activist said the accord was
"a great surrender" to militants.
Elsewhereinthenorthwest,mis-
siles fired by a suspected U.S. spy
plane killed 30 people in a house
used by an extremist commander,
witnesses said. It was the deadli-
est of almost three dozen apparent
American attacks on al-Qaida and
Taliban targets in the semiauto-
nomous tribal lands close to the
Afghan border since last year.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

CREDIT CARDS
From Page 1
from the affinity program - an
agreement between the bank and
university that includes Bank of
America credit cards trademarked
with the University's logo. As part
of the contract, the Alumni Asso-
ciation is paid royalties from Bank
of America, including 0.5 percent
of retail purchases made by each
credit card account.
"In terms of that credit card rev-
enue, we're probably reinvesting in
student programs 20 times what we
earned last year from student credit
cards," Sigler said. "I get frustrated
with the implication that we're
making millions of dollars off stu-
dents. We're making very little and
supporting significantly in support-
ing and funding students."
Sigler added that the Alumni
Association, a non-profit organi-
zation, puts an additional $50,000
into the Division of Student Affairs
to fund leadership training and
credit-related emergency loans.
The University's Athletic
Department is also included in the
affinity agreement. Bank of Amer-
ica is the only credit card company
allowed to advertise at University
sporting events.
Under the affinity program,
Marty Bodnar, associate athletic
director for ticketingservices, said
the Athletic Department mkes
$425,000 per year.
FINANCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
Christine Lindstrom, higher
education director of the U.S.
Public Interest Research Groups's
Higher Education Debt Project,
said credit card companies' adver-
tising on college campuses have
made students vulnerable targets
for these companies.
"It creates a marketplace on
campus for students, who tend
to be new consumers in the mar-
ketplace, and as a result are less
exposed to a variety of schemes
and tricks that might be layered in
particular," Lindstrom said. "Our
stance is we'd like to see the mar-
ketplace cleaned up on campus and
for students to have the ability to
control whether they're marketed
to in the sharing of information."
Lindstrom, who testified at a
June 2008 U.S. Congressional
hearing on credit card marketing
on college campuses, said there
are two factors contributing to
student debt: credit card compa-
nies targeting vulnerable popula-
tions and students' need to rely on
credit lines to pay for their educa-
tion and other expenses.
"Students have seen a need to

rely on their credit cards to pay for
student needs - textbooks, trans-
portation and even tuition," Lin-
strom said. "Target marketing and
needing to rely on lines ofcredit to
pay for basic educational costs are
contributing to an increase in stu-
dent debt once they graduate."
Betty Riess, a spokeswoman for
BankofAmerica, said the company
tries to promote financial respon-
sibility among student cardhold-
ers. Reiss said Bank ofAmerica has
special terms and fees for student
accounts, including lines of credit
for students that start at $500 and
are capped at $2,500
Currently, Bank of America
has about 700 affinity agreements
with universities across the coun-
try, but Riess said she could not
discuss individual contracts,
She said the purpose of the
affinity card is to provide a way for
alumni and fans to show support
for the school, and added that the
program is not targeted atstudents,
who account for only two percent
of all open accounts nationally.
"Our objective is to build a long-
termrelationshipand providethem
with the tools they need to start
establishing p credit history that
enables them to achieve longer-
term financial goals," Riess said.
CURBING STUDENT DEBT
Despite the credit card pro-
gram, the University doesn't allow
students to pay for tuition with
credit cards, according Pamela
Fowler, executive director of the
University's Office of Financial
Aid.
Prohibiting credit card tuition
payment prevents students from
charging large sums of education-
al expenses and driving them into
credit card debt, Fowler said.
She added that although stu-
dents cannot request loans based
on credit card debt, it is sometimes
inferred as the reason for some stu-
dents applying for financial aid.
Fowler said some of the practices
of the Alumni Association, like this
contract, while fair from the view-
point of the association, often end
up negatively affecting students.
"Sometimes I think they don't
think it all the way through - that
some of what they do can bleed
over into currently enrolled stu-
dents," Fowler said.
Fowler also said the Office of
Financial Aid is trying to educate
students about managing their
finances - something that is also
a priority for the Alumni Associa-
tion, according to Sigler.
"We believe that managing
finances and credit is as much a
part of the education and matura-
tion process that takes place dur-
ing the college experience," Sigler

r said. "We believe that students
should not be insulated from cred-
it and other things that are part of
I the real world of finances."
Sigler added that Bank of
America is not looking to prey on
naive students or run them into
credit card debt. Instead, he said
r the company is working to create
long-term relationships with them
as customers.
"They want you to have that
card and manage your credit
responsibly, by working with us
aand making responsible credit
I education," Sigler said.
STUDENTS TAKE ON CREDIT
According to U.S. PIRG's Cam-
- pus Credit Card Trap - a survey
taken from October 2007to Febru-
ary 2008 - credit cards and banks
regularly target college students
r with aggressive marketing tactics.
According to the survey, 66 per-
cent of students have at least one
credit card, 55 percent of students
reported using the card to buy
books and 24 percent of students
- reported paying for their college
tuitions using their credit cards.
Sixty-seven percent of students
opposed sharing of student infor-
mation with credit card compa-
nies, the survey found.
LSA junior A.J. Huber, who
opened an affinity card with Bank
of America in May 2007, said
he was unaware of the contract
u between the Alumni Association
and the bank, but that it doesn't
bother him. Huber said he would
rather see some of the money from
his credit card account support
m the University rather than just the
credit card company.
Huber, who was solicited by
Bank of America through the mail,
said he wanted his own card to
build his credit history. He added
that although credit card compa-
nies' targeting of students may
contribute to rising debt, students
need to learn how to handle their
credit responsibly and should not
be exempt from the world of man-
aging finances.
I "To say that students are unable
to manage their own spending is
patronizing," Huber said. "While
it is true that some students will
spend irresponsibly, that is also true
- with many older adults. Cutting off
access to credit, especially consid-
ering the credit crunch in today's
market, will only hurt students."
r Listed in the University's direc-
tory, Huber's name was provided
- to Bank of America as part of the
credit contract. Students may
remove their names from the
directory, which is public and
accessible online at any time.

North Korea may
distract from U.S.
message to As ia

As Clinton makes
historic visit to
Japan, North Korea
vows missile tests
TOKYO (AP) - Secretary of
State Hillary Rodham Clinton's
first official overseas trip was
overshadowed by harsh North
Korean rhetoric, epitomizing how
new administrations often can be
hemmed in by problems inherited
from their predecessors.
At the outset of her Asian trip,
Clinton declared in Japan: "I have
come to Asia on my first trip as
secretary of state to convey that
America's relationships across
the Pacific are indispensable to
addressing the challenges and
seizing the opportunities of the
21st century."
"We will be looking for ways
to collaborate on issues that go
beyond just our mutual concerns
to really addressing global con-
cerns," Clinton said at a ceremo-
ny to commemorate the arrival of
the first secretary of state ever to
ioake Japan their first overseas
stop.
Yet her message was in danger
of being eclipsed by Pyongyang,
which just hours before vowed to
press ahead with test-firing what
wary neighboring governments,
particularly Japan and South
Korea, believe is a long-range mis-
sile.
Japan, with an unpopular gov-
ernment and struggling with deep
economic woes, is particularly jit-
tery at the moment and Clinton
PANERA
From Page 1
Ann Arbor is because the commu-
nity has been great to us."
Even with the presence of a new
competitor, though, other area busi-
nesses are maintaining a positive
outlook toward the new business.
"Competition is good for every-
body," said Ken Smith, general
manager of Cosi on North State
Street. "There are quite a few busi-
nesses like that but let's he honest

aims to reassure the country of its
importance in the international
arena.
"The bilateral relationship
between the United States and
Japan is a cornerstone in our
efforts around the world," she
said. On Tuesday, she is expected
to announce that she will send a
special U.S. envoy to a Japanese-
hosted donors conference for Pak-
istan.
In addition to meeting with top
government officials and members
of the opposition, Clinton will sign
an agreement to move about 8,000
of the 50,000 Marines on the island
of Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific terri-
tory of Guam.
But, North Korea looms large
over her visit. She has promised
to meet with the families of Japa-
nese citizens kidnapped by North
Korea in the 1970s and 1980s. "We
do want to press the North Kore-
ans to be more forthcoming with
information," she said en route to
Tokyo.
Last week, she had warned
North Korea against any "provoc-
ative action and unhelpful rheto-
ric" amid signs the Stalinist nation
was preparing to test fire a missile
capable of reaching the western
United States.
But on Monday, the 67th birth-
day of North Korean leader Kim
Jong Il, Pyongyang claimed that
it has the right to "space develop-
ment" - a term it has used in the
past to disguise a missile test as a
satellite launch.
When North Korea test-fired
a long-range missile in 1998, it
claimed to have put a satellite into
orbit.
there's a market for that."
Dave Seagren, general manager
of Earl of Sandwich, which is also
on State Street, had an even more
positive attitude.
"I think it's going to be good
for business," he said. "Anytime
you get a big, reputable company
like Panera come to the down-
town area, it's going to increase
traffic. Maybe they won't stop in
the first time they come by, but
eventually people are going to
notice our restaurant and come
trv us out."

Are You Feeling Sad or Blue
and Without Energy?
Have you lost interest in people?
Do you have problems with sleep?
If you answered "yes" to these questions, you are a woman or
man over the age of 18, and NOT taking medications, you may be
eligible to participate in studies looking at stress hormones.
Both studies involve multiple blood draws and between 2 and 5
study visits of varying length.
Compensation provided for study participation.
Forfurther information, please contact
depressionstudies@umich.edu or 734-232-0382

.u may nar 1" imoru iay Liepa sime . Any questinsia -, I i -J r i mio re11 mumiio
Countinuing U-El Stud'ents,.
Do You Need Fnancial Aid
for Fall/Winter 2009-2010?

*UioiU

Don't forget
to submit your 2009-2010
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA)


4 - Tuesday, February 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

74L e Mc4t'*pan 43at*lg


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
Setting a trend
'U' should put an end to its dealings with Russell Athletic
W hen the University's Advisory Committee on Labor
Standards and Human Rights takes issue with your
business practices, you're probably doing something
wrong. Last Monday, the committee called for the University to
sever its ties to Russell Athletic, citing reports that the athletic
apparel company has been firing workers for trying to union-
ize at its facilities in Honduras. Such actions are a blatant viola-
tion of fair labor practices, and the committee's advice should be
promptly followed. Given the University's previous failings on
issues of labor standards, as well as the immense popularity of its
collegiate merchandise, the University can't afford to take a weak

To tell you the truth, my cold medicine
was having a big effect."
- Shoichi Nakagawa, Japanese finance minister, countering claims that he was
intoxicated at a Group of Seven meeting, as reported on Sunday by Reuters.
ELAINE MORTON A E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
!+jSProven ./f Teeet a n O a 5
to study ibDaa
yA
* *uru
h 4Kl b 6
a i M 3 aa
a( ap g [g 4g Fo 6 _

4

4

Afree market solution

stance on fair labor standards.
Russell fired 1,800 workers when it closed
one of its plants in Honduras. The work-
ers claim that they were fired for trying
to unionize and that the company ignored
their requests for higher wages, refusing
to negotiate. The company alleges that the
plant was closed due to declining demand
for its products. But a recent report from
the Worker Rights Consortium, an inde-
pendent monitoring agency, provided evi-
dence that the company's decision to close
the plant was made in response to work-
ers' attempts to organize. At an event last
week sponsored by Students Organizing
for Labor and Economic Equality, two of
the fired union leaders spoke of receiving
threats to their lives and families.
These allegations are deeply troubling.
Workers in Russell's Latin American facili-
ties already work for far less pay than U.S.
workers. Their right to organize should
be encouraged so that they can press for
improved working conditions and a decent
wage. Unfortunately, despite clear warn-
ings and an awareness of the potential
consequences, Russell has resorted to dra-
conian measures to suppress the demands
of its workers. These are hardly the sorts of
practices with which the University should

be affiliated.
Cutting ties with Russell would demon-
strate commitment to fair labor standards
and responsible corporate affiliations, espe-
cially in light of several previous University
blunders. The failure to sign onto the Desig-
nated Suppliers Program is just one example.
The University has repeatedly rejected this
plan, which would screen companies based
on their commitment to fair-labor practices
and require the University to sign only with
approved companies. Concerns have also
come up around other suppliers like Adidas
and the New Era Cap Company, and they've
hardly helped the University's image. Cut-
ting ties with Russell would begin to make
up for these incidents.
According to a recent report by the
College Licensing Company, Michigan
merchandise was the sixth best selling
university brand in the second quarter of
the 2008-09 fiscal year. These figures give
Michigan both great responsibility and
great leverage, and it's time for the Uni-
versity to exercise both. When the workers
toiling in faraway factories can't improve
working conditions on their own, strong
stances from influential institutions like
the University are needed to do the trick.

Pundits on CNBC often take
for granted that our current
economic crisis is part of the
traditional boom
and bust cycle of
capitalism. It is
treated as a natu-
ral blight, like
an earthquake -
or flood, which.
originates some-
where within the
capitalist system VINCENT
and must be com-
bated. But there PATSY
exists another
school of thought
that places the blame not on capital-
ism but rather on intervention into
the market by the federal govern-
ment. The Austrian Theory of the
Business Cycle not only explains the
current crisis more completely than
any other theory, it can also be used
to explain all other previous crises.
Every business cycle theory must
explain two facts. One, why is it that
entrepreneurs, who are trained in
understanding the market, are sud-
denly making a cluster of grave errors?
Two, why is it that goods used in pro-
duction (capital goods such as machine
tools, land, raw materials) rise in price
faster duringthe "boom" and fall faster
inthe"bust" relative toconsumergoods
(final products that are consumed in
usage, such as toys, computers, etc.)?
To think about the first question,
imagine a situation where for three
or four weeks, most National Foot-
ball League quarterbacks throw four
touchdown passes per game. Then,
for the next two or three weeks,
most quarterbacks suddenly throw
three interceptions per game. I do
not believe, and I think most people
would agree, that it would be accu-
rate to say that this cycle of many
touchdowns followed by many inter-
ceptions is a "product of the NFL sys-
tem" or somehow natural conditions
of the game would be a sufficient
explanation. It seems that the game
fluctuations would be caused not by

some mystical actions of the game of
football, but rather by rule variations
from an outside source like more or
fewer players allowed on defense or
outlawing of certain types of defens-
es. Placing the blame on the capitalist
system rather than outside interfer-
ence would be equally wrong.
The second fact with every busi-
ness cycle theory is that capital goods
(such as land, stocks, machine tools)
rise in price during the boom much
faster than consumer goods (bubble
gum and coffee). This is because
prices, whether the market is free
or not, are determined by supply
and demand. Whenever an institu-
tion sets a price above or below the
market price, there will be surpluses
or shortages. The more important
effect here is not the actual shortage
or surplus, but rather that resources
are being diverted away from where
the market wants. If a price ceiling is
imposed on wheat at $1 per bushel, for
example when wheat would normally
be sold at $2 per bushel, a shortage
would develop. Fewer people would
harvest wheat or become farmers.
Prices deliver information to inves-
tors and capitalists on the wishes of
society, when and where people want
to spend money. When the Federal
Reserve sets interest rates, it imposes
a price control. When it lowers the
interest rate below the market rate,
it sends signals to the market that do
not reflect the wishes of society. In
any other sector of the economy, this
would cause a shortage of funds avail-
able to invest. However, in the bank-
ing system, the Federal Reserve can
create money from thin air so that the
shortage is never noticed and certain
industries are given more loans.
Since saved funds lead to a lower
interest rate, this implies that a lower
interest rate reflects society's desire
to save more for the future. This
makes investments in capital goods
production (machine tools, land or
stocks) more profitable than they
were before, and thus these projects
are undertaken. But when the inter-

est rate is lowered by the Federal
Reserve and not by an increase in sav-
ings, the investments made in capital
goods are very unprofitable. So when
the Federal Reserve is forced to raise
interest rates and contract the supply
of credit, a recession begins.
If artificial credit expansion were
really the path to prosperity, we could
print money all day and not have to
worry about working - but, sadly,
it is not. The problem with lower-
ing interest rates is that society does
not want the goods being produced
with this newly-created credit. And
when the interest rate is raised, this
becomes starkly revealed as a waste
of resources and the price drops.
The Austrian
Theory's answer to
gov't interference.
How does this look in the real
world? Look at housing prices. The
Fed lowered interest rates to one per-
cent, causing an unsustainable boom
in housing and creating unprofitable
investments. Housing prices are fall-
ing not because there is some wicked
force out there causing failure. They
are falling because the Federal Gov-
ernmentand Federal Reserve,through
misguided policies, caused an unnatu-
ral rise in housing prices.
The business cycle is not caused by
some mystical problems in the capi-
talist system that can only be solved
by government, but rather are caused
by government and can only be solved
by free markets. If anyone is angry at
the current system and wondering
why it has failed, they should look
into the nearly irrefutable policies of
Austrian Economics.
- Vincent Patsy can be reached
at souljaboy@umich.edu.

A

I

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
UJPZ ignores Israel's need in their charters that they will never recog-
nize the Jewish state of Israel. In fact, Hamas'
to defend its own existence charter states that "Israel will continue to exist
until Islam destroys it."
Clearly, it is impossible to negotiate with a
TO TH E DAILY: group of people who brainwash their children
With regard to yesterday's viewpoint (What from an early age to blow themselves up to kill
Israel's election means, 02/13/2009) the Union Jews. For reference, please see Gaza's hit chil-
of Progressive Zionists must not ignore his- dren's TV show, Pioneers of Tomorrow. UPZ's
tory. UPZ suggests that the only way to achieve members, like good left-wing robots, automati-
peace is through direct negotiations and the cally denounce anything the right-wing parties
surrendering of historically Jewish land to the have to say. However, history has demonstrat-
former Egyptians and Jordanians currently ed that negotiating with and surrendering land
called "Palestinians". to terrorists has failed. The only solution that
UPZ chooses to ignore the fact that Israel remains is to eliminate the threat to Israel's
already gave the "Palestinians" Gaza and left existence with military action, like that which
them with the resources to become a produc- occurred recently. UPZ can complain about it
tive sovereign nation. Instead, the Palestin- all they want, but in the end, this method will
ians squandered this opportunity and elected be shown to lead to the only peaceful and long-
Hamas, a group that is recognized as a terrorist lasting solution.
organization by the United States and the Euro-
pean Union, to launch rockets at Israeli civil- Dan Shuster
ians. Both Hamas and Fatah state specifically Alum
JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
NLY'IF yA
00
O i
//
s f5 .
rz 4

I

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus, the Daily
would like students to voice their opinions on what
should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.
STUDENTS ALLIED FOR FREEDOM AND EQUALITY| PI

The politics of intimidation

Tonight at 7:30 P.M., Students Allied for Freedom and
Equality is bringing political scientist and professor Nor-
man Finkelstein to the Rackham Amphitheatre to give a
lecture entitled "The Israel-Palestine Conflict: What We
Can Learn From Gandhi." Some members of campus may
be uncomfortable with having such a controversial speaker
on campus. But when considering Finkelstein, it's impor-
tant to look at the long history of academic censorship that
has followed his career and what it means for intellectual
freedom.
Prior to being denied tenure at DePaul University in
June of 2007, Norman Finkelstein was no stranger to
intimidation. In 2000, Finkelstein wrote a book titled
"The Holocaust Industry:,Reflections on the Exploitation
of Jewish Suffering," in which he discussed how the Holo-
caust is often used as an excuse for Israel's maltreatment
and aggression toward the Palestinians. The book created
a stir amongst many Jews and non-Jews alike, and resulted
in vociferous criticism directed specifically at Finkelstein.
Since then, Finkelstein has written several other books that
focus more on Israel's treatment of the Palestinians and
the logical fallacies used by many in the pro-Israel com-
munity to justify Israel's forced dispossession and military
occupation of Palestinians since 1948.
Since "The Holocaust Industry" was published in 2000,
Finkelstein and Alan Dershowitz, an influential author and
professor of law at Harvard, have been locked in a seem-
ingly intractable war of words. Over the years, Dershowitz
has gone to great lengths to try and silence Finkelstein. In
one instance, Dershowitz made a personal phone call to
Governor Schwarzenegger of California in order to con-
vince the University of California not to publish one of Pro-
fessor Finkelstein's books entitled "Beyond Chutzpah: On
the Misuse of Anti-Semitism and the Abuse of History."
Most recently, it appears that Finkelstein was denied
tenure at DePaul University as a direct result of Dershow-
itz's meddling. Before leaving DePaul in 2007, Finkelstein
had been teaching there since 1991. In an April 12, 2007

New York Times article entitled "A Bitter Spat Over Ideas,
Israel and Tenure", Finkelstein said that he was optimistic
about his chances at securing tenure at DePaul. His annual.
reviews appeared to be going well, an implicit indicator
that he was on his way to the tenure track. But in 2005, Der-
showitz began a correspondence with DePaul's president,
Rev. Dennis Holtschneider, and the previous chairman of
DePaul's political science program, Patrick Callahan. Der-
showitz pressured the Arts and Sciences' Faculty Gover-
nance Council so much so that the 12-member board wrote
letters to the presidents of DePaul and Harvard complain-
ing about Dershowitz's behavior.
In the end, although Finkelstein's own department at
DePaul voted to award him with tenure, his bid was ulti-
mately denied by the University Board on Promotion and
Tenure. While DePaul has gone to great lengths to convince
the academic community that its decision to deny Finkel-
stein tenure was not influenced by Dershowitz or any other
outside forces, Finkelstein's failure to secure tenure in the
face of Dershowitz's shameless behavior demonstrates that
academic freedom cannot be taken for granted.
Finkelstein's writings may certainly be provocative and
controversial. At the same time, they are original, intellec-
tual, and the product of spurious scholarship and research. 4
To that extent, they should be subject to intellectual debate
and not written off as "hate speech" simply because they
recognize Palestinian suffering and question Israel's sys-
tem of discrimination. From President Carter to Joel
Kovel, it has long been the goal of many pro-Israel activists
to make criticism of Israel's policies taboo. As students at
an institution of higher learning, we have a fundamental
responsibility to grapple with ideas that may appear dia- 4
metrically opposed to our own. The need for this kind of
civil debate becomes increasingly important when it comes
to contentious issues like the Zionist-Palestinian impasse.
Andrew Dalack is a chair of Students
Allied for Freedom and Equality.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Tuesday, February U7, 2009 -5

Ward's test of time

Love not actually

'Hold Time' is perfectly in
step with M. Ward's recent
standard of excellence
By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
M. Ward could be one of the best pure song-
writers under 40 in the business today. When
he hasn't been teaming up
with the disgustingly cute ***
actress-turned-songstress
Zooey Deschanel under the M. Ward
moniker She & Him (and sub-
sequently crafting an endless- Hold Time
ly charming album heralded Merge
by Paste as the Best Album
of 2008), the Oregonian has been delivering
his own brand of indie-minded folk music with
unprecedented consistency.
Staking his reputation on his ability to
fashion songs that are built to stand
by themselves - complete with
structures, lyrics, progressions
and melodies that are brilliant-
ly effective with nary a hint of
studio refinement - the man
is a songwriter's songwriter.
In an age of mind-boggling
digital effects and note-by-
note timing and pitch correc-
tions, he's part of a rare breed that
gives priority to the song, not the
producer. Fortunately for all those music
purists out there, his newest effort, Hold Time,
doesn't deviate in quality or philosophy.

Somebody alert Wes Anderson to album
opener "For Beginners." A kickback to the
Kinks at their folkiest, it's a song best described
as a ditty. But what a ditty; beautiful in its sim-
plicity and yet extremely communicative, it's a
perfect introduction to an album full of moving
economy.
Considering Ward's success with
Deschanel, it's hardly surprising
that the pair once again joins
forces on "Never Had Nobody
Like You." Over gritty dis-
tortion and the occasional
well-placed blues lick, they
harmonize like they've been
working together for decades.
Apart from being a demonstra-
tion of M. Ward's melody-crafting
chops, the track is proof that the
duo's chemistry goes well beyond the
She & Him name.
As far as guest stars go, though, Lucinda Wil-
liams has to be the highlight. She lends her
countrified rasp to M. Ward's cover of
the Don Gibson classic "Oh Lone-
some Me." Their treatment of
the tune is more haunting than
the 1958 original, with pas-
sion spilling from each gentle,
creaking strain. Plus, Wil-
liams just plain owns with
her emotionally stirring vocal
performance.
The choice to update the
OF MRGE Sonny West-penned, Buddy Holly-
performed "Rave On" reveals Ward's
soft spot for pre-Beatles pop music. Between
his selection of '50s covers and apparent lack

of modern influences, it makes you wonder if
this guy has even heard of Rubber Soul. Still, the
facade contributes to his casual aura of timeless-
ness, which, among other things, keeps his work
honest and resonant - just the way he likes it.
Lyrically, M. Ward runs the entire gamut of
love: heartbreak, the puppyvariety and even
the I-haven't-been-the-same-since-
I-first-laid-eyes-on-you type. But
the most represented is the more
specific and spiritual sort. That
is, of course, pure unadulter-
ated Christian love.
"Epistemology" details
Ward's own religious enlight-
enment and reveals his strug-
gles growing up in Catholic
School. In "Fisher of Men,"
besides uttering a mildly puzzling
simile ("as wise as a prizefighter"?),
Ward pays homage to Jesus and his ability to
convert the misguided. When he pleads "save
me from sailing over the edge" in "To Save Me,"
it's pretty obvious he's not calling out to Batman.
Still, it's this palpable honesty that helps break
down the conventional listener-artist barrier
and establishes a more intimate connection.
As the beautiful and vaguely Caribbean
instrumental "Outro" draws to a close, the con-
cept of time may feel a little disorienting. M.
Ward's fascinating Hold Time puts the trends
and attitudes of a particular era aside and deliv-
ers a collection of impassioned, ageless tunes.
For some, it imay take a couple spins to really
appreciate, but dedicated listeners will be more
than rewarded for their patience. Oh, and like
the records in grandma's basement, don't forget
to blow the dust off beforehand.

Over the weekend, I
skimmed something like
150 lists about movies and
Valentine's Day. Beingsingle on the
Hallmark holi-
day, I figured it
would be a nice
pick-me-up. The
Onion's A.V.'Club
had a great list
about romance
flicks "minus the
schmaltz." Total- BLAKE
Film compiled GOBLE
a list of the "20-
Worst Screen Couples." FamilyEdu-
cation.com made a list of movies for
the lovelorn. There were literally
tons of other bullet points pertain-
ing to love and cinema.
How are there are so many lists?
Maybe it's a humblingnotion:
There are tons of lonely geeks writ-
ing lists to make us feel better. But
no matter how lonely you may be,
there's always a box of chocolates to
buy and eat while watchingthat old
DVD of "High Fidelity." It's OK to
be single, you know?
Maybe it has been one too many
Martin Scorsese flicks or books
about the "cinema of isolation," but
I've been wonderinglately whether
or not modern love movies have
been ruining my ability to take
romance seriously. Besides, the
original idea for this column was to
ask out a series of actresses (Golden
Girls included).
But it drives me crazy. When
you're alone and looking at hack-
neyed films each February, you
begin to ponder these things. I don't
mean to play myself up as some
huge romantic, but I've been think-
ing about "love" lately. A lot. What
the hell does itrmean?
Nothing will ever pass upa good
"Romeo & Juliet" or "Pride & Prej-
udice." There are good romantic
films that can still touch hearts. "It
Happened One Night" and "In the
Bedroom" are landmarks that seem
to get it, without the scoffs and
snickers that often come with the
genre. It's the surplus of sappy, triv-
ial romps that pain the heart. And
they all follow the same unwritten
formula. There's a reason critics are
regarded as cynics - they see this
junk a lot and it starts to hurt.
It's like when you see an elected
official dancing to the Pointer Sis-

ters while everyone else happily
finds their soulmate by the conclu-
sion. You can't help but scream:
"Love Actually" is bullshit!It's
always a kiss before the end credits.
The relationship is always gonna
last even after the film's over. Or
the movie ends with the question of
what the leads' peers will think of
the relationship, but who cares?
In these movies, the female leads
work in fashion or bigbusiness
while the men are single fathers.
The perfect guy's right in front of
the lead actress's face, even though
she doesn't know it. The schlub gets
the girl, and the protagonist wan-
ders alone in montage for the first
act. There's a sprintto true love in
the last act. I'm sorry for grocery-
listing this, but maybe that's why
there were so many of those lists
online. It's a problem when themes
and stories become cliches and pre-
dictabilities.
Granted, I'm still young. You
can brush this off as puerile whin-
ing that should only go in a Twit-
ter account, but it's been getting
to me. Now, I'm not saying "The
Break-Up" was an acute depiction
of relationship troubles. It was
Hollywood's
misguided take
on love.
miserable. And I'm not saying that
there's anything wrong with sweet,
predictable old love. I'm just saying
that I don't get it yet. I'm 22, and I
already feel jaded.
I don't know. I guess if there's one
universal truth of love to be learned
from movies without needing to
really experiencing it - and it still
applies today - it would be this gem
from "Taxi Driver": No good can
come from takingsomeone to a porn
theater. This I can be certain of.
Still, I do hope everyone had a
good holiday. And hopefully some-
where, somebody watched "The
Age of Innocence" while I did.
Goble is lonely and he likes movies.
if you want to be his girlfriend, e-mail
him at bgoblue@umich.edu.

Not the stimulus Hollywood needed

By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
Forget the stimulus plan.
Rebecca Bloomwood's (Ilsa Fisch-
er, "Definite-
ly, Maybe")
spending hab-
its alone are
enough to get essions 
the economy a ShopaholiC
back on its feet.
"Confessions At Showcase
of a Shopahol- and Quality 16
ic" is ill-timed, Touchstone
as most Ameri-
cans aren't about to drop $120 on
a scarf. Of course, maybe a fluffy
movie laden with brand names is
just the thing people need to for-
get about recent financial troubles.
Unfortunately, this particular
movie won't do the trick.
Bloomwood parades around
New York City in a pair of Loubou-
tin stilettos, swinging her Gucci
bag while eyeing mannequins ir
Bendel's. She works as a journalist
who has landed a job at "Success-
ful Savings" and she has had a mild
amount of success thanks to a col-
umn she writes under the pseud-
onym "The Girl in the Green Scarf."
Her boss Luke Brandon (Hugh
Dancy, "The Jane Austen Book
Club") just might be falling for her,
and all she needs now is the perfect
Yves Saint Laurent dress, but she's

thousands of dollars in debt thanks
to her 12 credit cards and penchant
for designer clothes.
Director P.J. Hogan, who was
responsible for chick flicks "Muri-
el's Wedding" and"MyBest Friend's
Wedding," is also at the helm here.
"Confessions of a Shopaholic" is
another one of those silly, super-
ficial romantic comedies released
around Valentine's Day for female
audiences. Actually, it's mildly
insulting. The sugary plot seems
to insinuate that most women have
nothing better to do than shop and
that women actually believe a new
outfit will make their lives much
better. And the clothes shown in
the movie aren't even particularly
nice; the film features mountains of
pink shoes and frilly bows that not
even a Barbie doll would go near.
In need of an
intervention.
The characters in the film only
serve to perpetuate the stereotype
of the ditzy airhead. For example,
why doesn't Bloomwood even
make some sort of attempt to pay
the credit card bills she has stashed
under her bed? Really, how stupid
is she? It's too bad, because Fis-

Cher could do much better. Even
as Rebecca Bloomwood, she is cer-
tainly a driving comedic force as
she performs a bizarre sort of tango
with a fan and gets in a catfight over
a pair of ugly Pucci boots. Dancy is
passable as Luke Brandon - mainly
because the part requires little act-
ing. He's just there to flash his blue
eyes at the camera and deliver lines
in a British accent.
of course, the movie tries to con-
vey the idea that fiscal responsibility
is a good thing, but it does so half-

hearty dly. It just makes shopping
and lying to debt collectors, parents
and friends look like way too much
fun. Even Rebecca's parents (Joan
Cusack, "War Inc." and John Good-
man, "Bee Movie"), who usually
save their money, end up spending
everything they've saved on an RV.
Cusack and Goodman are both tal-
ented actors, and it's a shame that
both have underwritten roles.
In the end, it would've been
wiser to invest the time and money
entont~ smi else h ere.

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
Corona/Dos Equis Specials All Night
$'.2 7u.ifa ,S'urisJc s Vodka 1rings
25%Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
Jailer Bomb Specials 10 to Close
310 AaywAd St. ~736990.0100~ tucatodaxt to td19Maywd PainStitwetW
S U D O K

for more information call7341615-6449
The University of Michigan College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts presents a public
lecture and reception

- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROCES
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
FRANCE
May 18-June 12,2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Sat us the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Tuesday, Febr ry 17,5:00pm,Art & Architecture Bldg. Room
Wednes y, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making creativity an integral part of students' lives and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
This course is supported by the University of Michigan's Multidisciplinary Learning and Team Teaching Initiative
THE FR. GABRIEL RICHARD LECTURES
Calling us to examine current issues in light of ourfaith
Is BJOETHICS STUPID?
Thursday, February 19, 2009
Myles Sheehan, S.J., M.D.
Professor of Medicine
Loyola University Health System
4:00 p.m., Auditorium
Biomedical Science Research Bldg. 109
Zina Pitcher Place, Ann Arbor
(on the curve where Washtenaw becomes Huron)
Co-Sponsored by:
St. Mary Student Parish
Centerfor Ethics in Public Life
r

I

Richard P. Mitchell
Collegiate
r Professor of History
Wednesday, February 18, 2009
Rackham Amphitheater
4:10pm

I SA



I

6- Tuesday, February 17, 2009
the michigan daily

.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 tHoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immd. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
"60-
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdtn bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrs.
Incl. Heat/Waer/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.anarborapartments.net
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$788-$949/mo. 970-1279 sq. 1. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213.
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bal.c. A/C, prkg., dry.,
$1450-$1750, No stkgino pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng acomcast.net
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$200 signing bonus on all 2 bedrooms
+ free internet
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680

3 PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
JLOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
e-nrnn -A-e-aIn - lr

coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
W1 C
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as tow us $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break and get these new rates.
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from Fast Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfuruished avail. Laundry,
free parkinsg, free heat atnd water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.ssms-housing.com
*2 BEDROOMS - Great campus loca-
tions* 1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917
Packard, 848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Wal-
nut. All fumished ande uclude heat, wa-
1er, and parking, some wills free wire-
less! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100.
*3 BEDROOM APTS*
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furuished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.comn
6-BEDROOM HOUSE*
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 - 8 people. Kerry-
town! Close to Downtown, ingerman'-
s & summer farm market! (734) 668-
1100. www.varsityinanagement.com
*BIG HSE! 5 Ig. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, diuing rms. 2 kitc. 2 bath. 2
study, Free ldry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
*MAY - MAY 2 bedroom*
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site. (734)668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com

C.ce the e
19 Great Locations
Studio -4 Bedrooms
Avail..
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or Visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
'nfo@isapropeie'.com
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL2009 (some with new prices!)

I & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Internet!
$200 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
Don't miss out on the Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall 09. 2 prkg
spaces avail, on-site Indry. $2450 +
elmc. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement7com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2280;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
1DARM. & EFFAPTS
$450-$650 I
SEPT. 2009
ONIPROPERTIES
734-663-5609j
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available Fall
-09. 2 baths; hardwood floor, Free laun-
dry and parking. Near Yost Arena
$2000 call: 734-717-6913.
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ]dry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aolcom
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingstey.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mm. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $2800/mo. 734-320-1 026.

6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
Mayto May $3400 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
90 5FO S 62M'94Studio & r
dms130Gde Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
ueMND rOEteSe:nmPus
SprgadFllE6rns3 as
734-663-15306
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall 09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368
APARTMENTSAVAIL2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
FurnsFdhat g aaterincluded',
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
*Aeities varies bylocation
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. MAY - 5 bdrm. duplex. 1114
Prospect. Lg. bdrms., modern kitch.,
central A/C. Free ldry. $2650+ util.
734-665-2723. shahtigerr(lhotmail.com
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I Bdrt. apt. Hardwood
floors, buy window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2009
7 bdrm. 521 Linden, 2 butts, 6 prkg.
spots, wshr./dryer,dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $3200 linden521@me.com
5 bdrm. 525 Linden, 2 bath., 4 prkg.
spots, wshr./dryer, dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $2800 linden525@cdme.cor
Contact Jonah Copi 415 786 8206.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS 3 and 4 bed-
roorn houses for rent. 734-649-7571.

3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Divisiu $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
BEAUTIFUL 4 BDRM. house in Ann
Arbor. Rent negotiable. Come see for
yourself Contact Mike 734-576-8591.
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet. Rent from $430 - $520.
Call 734-276-0886.
3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1200/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609

for your
apartment before Break!
Furnshed Studios, 1, 2, & 3
bedrooms still available!
Call 734.668.1100 today
for an appoinument!
wwwvarsiymanagemnetm.u
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
StlcklandssMarket, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrm. House
$2400!!! On Central Campus, 3 bath,
Furn., free Idry, prkg, 734-786-0249.
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GRADUATE STUDENT? 418 E.
Washington studios and one bedrooms
available. Close to Main St. and central
campus, modern, quiet, many updated
kitchens. Visit
www.varsitymanagement.com
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/waer included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealy.cum
HISTORICAL BLDG. 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avil.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
Classifieds
continued on
the next page

1
'd

4

4

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, February 17, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Class with alab 49 "The Galloping
1 Float, as an 1 Chinese 38 First-class Gourmet"
aroma cookware 39 Happen again 50 Swing into town
5 A, to Aristotle 2 Onassis, to 41 Slugs, to a 52 Like hoods
10 Not quite friends 32-Down 54 Money owed
closed 3 TV watchdog 42 Wing tip-to-wing 57 Online software
14 Tolkien 4 "For shame" tip distance come-on
baddies 5 Words after flip 44 Forward 60 "Cats" monogram
15 Gives a darn 6 Not at all strict movement 62 Success sign
16 Hardy's 7 Soften at the 46 Illusionist David 63 Both Begleys
"obscure" factory, asjeans 47 Eatery serving 64 www help feature
stonemason 8 Where you are, uncooked 65 Part of TBS:
17 Some ring on mall maps shellfish Abbr.
combatants 9 Good thing
19 Santa _: 101977 Grammy- ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
California minds winning 5teey
20 Part of TNT Dan album PA R A W C S M E C C A S
21 Garden invader 11 Odds-and-ends A T A D R A H O N R A M P
23 Sask. motorist's storage areas J A V A J I V E N A I L E R
c4nnen 12 Gets tofi A R E NOT A F T B A W-1
24 2003 Billy Bob 13 Work on hooves MINO ED YAM MIN
Thornton holiday 18 Scottish hillside
film 22 Materialtto A S S J U M P i N G J A C K
28 Take careof 7-Down P A P A L A M O R A L
30 Similar 24Pig of film A M M O J A B E I N E
31 Cigar residue 25 Actor Alda L A I R D S C U B B Y
33 Frum Trondheim, 26 Band J U N K J EWE L R Y I D S
e.g. alernatives, am
34-Mus.,mars' weddings ONE S M A L AIC O N I C
degrees 27 Budget-balancing L A R 5 I D A H A S A G O
35 Piece of trial statute, perhaps S L A P O N J U M B O J E T
evidence 29Marginaljotting O O L A L A A K A L A S T
37 Digital 32 Mob hiree N A S S E R R E N EMT S
encyclopedia 35 Roswell visitors,
40 "In the good old for short? xwordeditorwaol.com 02/17/09
days..." 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 10 11 12 13
43 Randum gay
45 Akihito, e.g.: m14 15 16
Abhr.
46 Rodeo bucker 17 t19
48 Pekoe or green
49 Fate zo 21 22 23
51 Tie one's cleats a 05 06 27 23 29
53 "Both Your
Houses" Pulitzer 031 003 3
playwright
Maxwell 34 35 3
55 Polly's cry
56 Paul of 3 33 340 41 42
"Anchorman" 3
58 Go down the
wrong path 43 47 33 43 5
88 "Nnt likely"
61 TV reporers' 51 52 53 54
short stories
66 Thoseopposed 33 56 7 3
87 "Atention,_
sb"ppers..." s 39 6 31 32 33 60 33
68 When the war6
ends
69 Celtic language 3 70 71
70 Goes up and
downn
71 ABA hunuricsic 3y Peer riune 9 o ibn0M3n
edia Servo~o ies Inc.m.02117/09

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per ine for the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional Consecutive issue, e Frequency and Bulk contractS are available-
contact our staff for details a Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are piaced in person with a valds tudent ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) a All ads must be prepaid unless prior biling privleges
have been established * We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives

Classification:
010- Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030- Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet

I day 2 days

3 days 4 days 5 days

80

2 lines
3 lines
4 lines

90 17.20
35 25.80
.80 39.40

21.50 25.80 09C
32.25 38.70 . 093
43.00 51.60 091
10
127
accepted. Misprints: The liability of
ing incorrect ads in a specified issue 12.
e cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 12'

0 - Services
0 Help Wanted
3- Summer Employment
5 - Chld Care
0 -.Tickets & Travel
0 -Announcements
3 - Websites
5 - Music

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wil be
TMD for failure to publish an advertisement for any reason, or for pubish
shal be limited to publshing in a subsequent issue and not more than th
wil be responsible for classified advertisementerrors only if notified by 5
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rates lines are consecutive inse
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful by 11:30 am on originally s
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadine, but no refund
been published. Refusal: Al ads are subject to editing and approval. W
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to requ
acceetinuadvertising.

:0 pm on the first day of publication.
rtions. An ad may be extended at a
cheuede ending date. Refunds:
wil be given unless the adfhas not yet
e do not pubish advertisements!for.
est samples of mail order items prior to

130-
140-
150-
160-

Roommates
Food & Entertaine
Personal
Fats

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 17, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 17, 2009 - 7

Dingell pushes his plan
for national health care
At event yesterday,
representative said

program would help
American companies
By MALLORY JONES
For the Daily
At a standing room only event
yesterday, Rep. John Dingell
(D-Dearborn) drummed up sup-
port for a bill that would give every
American health insurance.
Speaking to a packed crowd in a
School of Public Health auditorium
- some of whom were redirected
into "overflow rooms" - Dingell,
whose district includes Ann Arbor,
discussed his legislation, H.R. 15:
The National Health Insurance
Act, which he introduced to the
U.S. House of Representatives ear-
lier this year.
While Dingell said he is optimis-
tic about passing reform legislation
quickly, he can only hope that the
legislature will reach "a bipartisan
agreement."
"I can tell you that the president
has already put national health
care coverage into his budget,"
Dingell said.
Chris Jennings, former senior
health care adviser to President Rep. John
Bill Clinton, said at the event that that go
"stakeholders" in the insurance automobi
industry, including physicians, are be much
"begging" for reform. said.
"The very economic crisis that "What
we face breeds opportunity for that has
comprehensive change," Jennings systems
said, who is also president of the has one
health policy consulting firm Jen- systems
nings Policies Strategies, Inc. health ca
In the current economic crisis, Dingel
Dingell said the need for univer- health c
sal health insurance in the United every A
States is "no longer just a humani- pared to
tarian concern, it's a competitive that goes
concern." Dingel
If the government were to "pick the long
up the tab" for the health care costs tative ev
"I'm r
MASS MEETING been ap
From Page 1 thatyoul
for the tw
"Those are obviously abstract going to
things, but I really think we have opposed
the know-how to (implement) them who kne
once our feet are held to the fire," group of
Mahanti said. "And opening up a LSA se
dialoguewithstudentsissomething a former
we really want to emphasize." represent
LSA junior Adam DeSantis, who has an ex
was present at the meeting, said he "I thin
thinks the party split will create a approach
competitive atmosphere conducive to to do bol
findingthe mostqualified candidate. tried in
the michigan daily
NOW LEASING REM(
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Leather
Call today to see your new Home! Free I
One
Efficiencies:F
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms: SIX BED
520 Packard May to M
515 E. Lawrence bath., big
326 E. Madison 734-663-8
511 E. Hoover T
1320 S. University STUDIO
2 Bedrooms: Clean,
909 Church 241-177-0
1021 Vaughn Street WE BU
721 S. Forest HOUSES
1320 S. University rental hoa
411 High
819 Brown WE HA
from stu
u Fully Furnished apartment

*Parking Included cations. Pl
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations) WW
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus. 1 & 2 a
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net 5 min. wa
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully FREE S
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered bedrooi
porch & much more. 741-9300. ft
www.annarborapartments.net www
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo . j
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
Apartments Available!

MARTIN
From Page 1
was not to build premium seating.
"The goal was to update an
80-plus-year-old facility to today's
standards of safety and conve-
nience," he said. "Building premi-
um seating was a means to an end.
It was a way we could pay for it
without having to put a surcharge
on our ticket."
Martin said the stadium project
has raised more in donations than
originally anticipated, but that the
project will cost more than origi-
nally planned. It was expected to
cost $226 million.
In addition to athletic expenses,
Martin said he is proud the Ath-
letic Department has been able to
contribute approximately $3.6 mil-
lion to the president's discretion-
ary fund over the last two years.
The Athletic Department also
contributes approximately $14
million a year in tuition and board
payments to the University for ath-
letes receiving scholarships.
Martin said when he became
athletic director almost nine years
ago, he was committed to not only
improving the athletic perfor-
mance of student-athletes, but their
academic performances as well.
"My whole dealhereis Ijustwant
to moake Michigan better, both ath-
letically and academically," he said.
A handout presented to assem-
bly members outlined the Univer-
sity's student-athletes' academic
performance.
According to Martin's handout,
student-athlete graduation rates
have risen from 68 percent in 2000
to 84 percentlast year, despite flur-
FINKELSTEIN
From Page 1
denied Finkelstein's bid for tenure
after concerns were raised over his
controversial opinions. Finkelstein
alleged that Harvard professor and
lawyer Alan Dershowitz, a prolific
opponent of Finkelstein who holds
pro-Israel views, interfered with
his bid and helped it get blocked.
Administrators at DePaul denied
that Dershowitz played any role in
their decision.
In April 2007, Finkelstein told
the Harvard Crimson that Der-
showitz's efforts were "character
assassination."
"Had there been no outside
pressure, I'm fully confident that
I would make it through," Finkel-
stein said at the time.
He was placed on administra-
tive leave during the 2007-2008
academic term, and resigned on

GRADUATION RATES AT THI
Tho tread is the percentage at student anc
studen-athletes who graduate.
82 82 83 84 82
80%
60%
40%
20%
2000 2002
tuating graduation rates through-
out that time. In the same period
of time, overall graduation rates
among all University students rose
from 82 percent to 88 percent.
According to the handouts, the
University also has the second
highest overall student-athlete
graduation rate among Big Ten
schools, among which the football
team has the third highest gradu-
ation rate.
Despite this, Martin said he
believes a higher graduation rate
is possible.
"There's always room for
improvement," he said.
When one assembly member
asked about the recent controversy
over reimbursing members of the
Committee on Academic Perfor-
mance, who attended bowl games
on behalf of the University, Martin
said he supported the old practice.
Sept. 5,2007.
SAFE co-chair Andrew Dalack
said that the organization brought
in Finkelstein for two reasons, the
first of which is his knowledge of
the situation in Gaza.
"(Finkelstein's) insight into the
conflict is much needed consider-
ing Israel's most recent assault on
Gaza," Dalack said.
Dalack also said that SAFE invit-
ed Finkelstein to speak because of
the controversy surrounding Fin-
kelstein's tenure at DePaul.
"We felt that his denial and
inability to gain tenure at DePaul
University is something that the
campus needed to hear about,"
Dalack said.
Rachel Goldstein, president of
the American Movement for Israel,
said that although some members
may choose to attend the event,
AMI does not plan to send an orga-
nized group to protest.
Goldstein also said that mnem-

E UNIVERSITY
d university students
University student-athletes
85 87 87 87 8884
88
73 72
2004 2006 2008
Source: Michigan Athletic Department
"I personally support it, but it's
not my decision," he said of the
practice. "That's a decision the
president will make."
Martin said the opportunity to
travel to bowl games allowed fac-
ulty to meet with leaders from the
NCAA and provided the oppor-
tunity to build relationships and
trust.
A decision at last month's Sen-
ate Assembly meeting advocated
transferring power to make rec-
ommendations on student-athlete
eligibility to the academic advising
office in the school in which the stu-
dent-athlete is enrolled. Previously,
the Committee on Academic Per-
formance made recommendations
to the Office of the Provostconcern-
ingstudent-athlete eligibility.
- Devon Thorsby
contributed to this report.
bers of AMI weren't very happy
with the choice of Finkelstein as
the speaker for the event.
"We are disappointed that SAFE
deemed Finkelstein an appropriate
choice to be that advocate," Gold-
stein said. "He has been academi-
callydiscredited inthe past, openly
defends the actions of Hezbollah,
an organization recognized by the
U.S. and many European countries
as a terrorist group, and he is con-
sidered incredibly offensive and
inflammatory to the Jewish com-
munity, regardless of his Jewish
descent."
Goldstein added that she hopes
the event's audience members will
not take Finkelstein's words as fact.
"We hope anyone who attends
will acknowledge (Finkelstein's)
extremist beliefs and continue edu-
cating themselves further on the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict before
jumping to any conclusions," Gold-
stein said.

KRISTABOY[
Dingell spoke at the University yesterday about national health care.

into making products like
les, U.S. companies would
more competitive, Dingell
t a shame that the nation
one of the finest college
in the whole world and
of the greatest health care
in the world can't provide
re to its people," he said.
X1 said $1,600 worth of
are 'is part of the cost of
merican-made car, com-
the $750 worth of steel
into each car.
41, who last week became
est-serving U.S. represen-
er, was a co-sponsor of the
really happy to see there's
'rty split," he said. "The fact
have two parties competing
No spots really means we're
get the best candidates as
to someone who was there
w the right people within a
20 people."
rnior Tyrone Schiff, who is
LSA Student Government
ative, said he thinks MVP
citing style for government.
nk they have an innovative
," he said. "They're trying
d things that haven't been
the past, and I think it's

State Children's Health Insurance
Program that passed in 1997. After
former President George W. Bush
twice vetoed reauthorizing SCHIP,
President Barack Obama signed its
reauthorization into law on Feb. 4,
2009.
Marianne Udow-Phillips, direc-
tor of the Center for Healthcare
Research & Transformation, also
spoke at the event with Dingell and
Jennings. She discussed the heavy
burden the current Medicaid sys-
tem puts on state budgets.
She said in Michigan, 20 percent
of the state budget goes toward pay-
ing for Medicaid - the eighth high-
est percentage in the country.
time that somebody came around
and did this."
The party structure was also
introduced. It includes LSA junior
Brady Smith as message chair; LSA
sophomore Sam Goodman and LSA
junior Alex Warbasse as external
marketing and media chairs; LSA
sophomore Andrew Chinsky as
internal communication coordina-
tor and LSA junior Sona Kotecha
and LSA freshman Larry Warbasse
as finance chairs.
- Annie Thomas
contributed to thisstory.

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com.

ODELED 2 BEDROOMS
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Furniture and Glass Tables,
nternet and Heat & Water,
Parking Space included!
Hurry....Only 3 left t
ROOM HOUSE
ay lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bedrooms. Old Town Realty
989. Oldtownrealty.net
APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
furnished, security. Call
859 or 248-217-6896.
UY CAMPUS RENTAL
want to sell your student
se (248) 626-0614.
VE ALL your housing needs
dios to 6 bdrm. houses in all
lo-
ease contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
W.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
drm., modern, clean, quiet
lk, MED, DENT, and Campus
Wm~ir

SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.comn
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

WANNA MAKE A quick $300? Well
you can help rent houses. 717-2017.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
ate to get the experience you need!
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800) 626 -6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
150
COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION
Loving couple wishing to adopt an
infant. Willing to pay legal and medical
expenses. 1-800-488-3038
christineandtimadoption@gmail.com

For Wednesday, Feb. 18, 2009
A RIES ,
(March 21 to April t19)
It's easy to be diplomatic and charm-
ing with everyone today. Your schmooze
skills are hot! In particular, you will
work well with groups of people. (Make
the most of this!)
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Solitude in beautiful surroundings will
please you today. Whatever you do alone
or while working behind the scenes can
advance your career choices or your rep-
utation in your community.
OFEMINI
(May 21to Jnoe 20)
All kinds of group activities will go
very well today. In particular, your
involvement with artists and creative
people will be successful. People are
turned on by your enthusiasm.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Someone in a position of authority
might ask for your creative input about
something today, no matter what you do
for a living. Some of you also might
develop a crush on your boss! (Tread
carefully.)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Explore travel opportunities or oppor-
tunities related to publishing, the media,
medicine and law. This is also a good
day to study something new or explore
politics and religion.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Gifts, goodies and favors can come to
you from others today. Keep your pock-
ets open! Expect a miracle. Romantic
intimacy can be very sweet and affer-
tionate today.
LI BRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Relations with partners and close_
friends are vibrant and alive today.

You're not afraid to tell others just how
much you care for them. (Good for you!
People like to hear this.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Co-workers are helpful today, and vice
versa. This means this is the perfect day
to approach a touchy subject at work
because people are willing to cooperate
more than usual.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Love, romance and exciting flirtations
might make your day today! It's a great
day for sports, parties and playful activi-
ties with children.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Act on your ideas about redecorating
where you live. You also might want to
entertain at home today or this evening.
You feel sociable and especially warm
toward family members.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You can make money today through
writing, talking, sales, teaching or act-
ing. All your communication is lively,
vibrant and potentially profitable!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
This is a good day for business and
commerce. Your cash flow is active. It's
a good day to buy art or invest in beauti-
ful things for yourself or loved ones.
YOU BORN TODAY You're an origi-
nal thinker; and you have a fine mind.
You love to stir up the people around you
with your brilliant and unusual ideas.
You're interested in the broad strokes,
not the details. You know what you're
doing because you always adhere to your
own personal set of principles. This year
you will build or construct something
important.
Birthdate of: Helen Gurley Brown,
author/editor; Greta Scacchi, actress;
Jean Drapea visionary mayor.

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format 25 yrs U- exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv net
and Laundry.
Leases for May and help wanted
September
Voted #/1 by Michigan Daily "90
R eaders
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
www.Bartonbrook.coi, 734-665-5620 tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-basedtsalary
...and having FUN at the same time
Pleasee-maildailyclassifiedgmailcom,
calt (734)764-0557, orstop at
42o Maynardto apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Letihis Great
Opportunity Pass You By!


I

8 - Tuesday, February 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

How do QB transfers fare?

..- ,r
$

ZACH ARY ME ISN ER/Daily
Sophomore Scooter Vaughan saw the ice this weekend for the first time since Michigan's loss against Bowling Green on Jan. 16.
Even with little ice
tiCme, Vaughan shie

A t Michigan, you hear a lot
about those who stay.
But what about those
who leave?
Redshirt freshman quarterback
Steven Threet became the most
recent player to depart from the
Wolverine football team when he
announced his transfer early yes-
terday morning.
Of every
quarterback
who has
thrown at least
three passes in
a season since
1949 (as far
back as Athletic DAN
Department
records go), FELDMAN
just nine didn't
complete their eligibility.
Two of them left in the last two
years - both after Michigan hired
Rich Rodriguez.
Ryan Mallett, arguably the most
highly touted quarterback recruit
in Michigan history, stayed just
one year (2007). He transferred
to Arkansas last winter and will
probably start for the Razorbacks
next season.
And now Threet will play some-
where else, too. (Don't assume it
will bea Football Championship
Subdivision or Division-II team.
Because he already transferred
once, Threet will have to sit out
next season no matter the level of
his new school.)
Mallett said he left because
he didn't fit Rodriguez's spread
offense. Threet, rivals.com's No.
9 pro-style quarterback in 2007,
faced a similar predicament. But
he stuck it out for a year.
When Threettransferred to
Michigan from Georgia Tech in
2007, he told his high school coach
he thought he could beat out Mal-
lett. But Mallett transferred, and
Threet had a different challenge. .
So Threet found himself bat-
tling Nick Sheridan, a former,
walk-on who didn't receive any
scholarships out of high school,
for the starting spot in a system in

which he didn't really fit.
By staying and giving Michigan
another feasible option besides
Sheridan, Threet opened himself to
public criticism from the Wolver-
ines' coaches. Offensive coordinator
Calvin Magee described Threet's
three-interception performance
against Michigan State on Oct. 25
as "inconsistent, like it always is."
Threet, on the other hand,
always praised Sheridan publicly
and never took credit for any suc-
cess the team had (although he
didn't have many opportunities).
Some of Michigan's coaches
could take a lesson from Threet,
but what can be learned from the
other seven experienced quarter-
backs who left early? There's no
clear direction for a player in this
position.
Jason Forcier, whose brother
Tate signed with Michigan asa
quarterback two weeks ago, left
after Mallett beat him out for the
backup job in 2007. He was Stan-
ford's third-string quarterback this
year.
Drew Henson and Clayton
Richard both left the Michigan
football team to play baseball.
Henson skipped his senior sea-
son to sign a six-year, $17-million
contract with the New York
Yankees in 2001, but he had just
nine major league at-bats. He also
played nine games in the NFL,
including two for the Detroit Lions
last year.
Richard left the football team
after two seasons to join the Mich-
igan baseball team as a pitcher.
After one successful season, the
Chicago White Sox drafted him in
the eighth round of the 2005 draft.
He played in last year's All-Star
Futures Game and could be in the
White Sox's rotation this season.
Records on Stacy Johnson and
Paul D. Palmer aren't very clear,
but it appears each played just two
years - Johnson from 1976 to 1977
and Palmer from 1958 to 1959.
Gary Lee also played just two
years for Michigan (1978-79). A
year ago, his contract to be head

coach at Flint Southwestern High
School wasn't renewed. It recently
become public that heused two
players who were released from
their prison sentences to attend
school and play football.
Matt Gutierrez's situation might
be the most relevant to Threet's.
Gutierrez appeared to be the
heir apparent to the starting job
in 2004, but a shoulder injury
allowed a freshman named Chad
Henne to start.
Gutierrez was the Wolverines'
holder for a year before transferring
to Idaho State, where he threw for
2,237 yards and 16 touchdowns in
his final season of eligibility. He's
now the third-string quarterback
for the New England Patriots.
The 6-foot-6, 230-pound Threet
has some NFL potential because
of his size and arm strength. But
it's nearly impossible to predict
whether he'll make it.
As these eight players show, a
quarterback who has Michigan
experience doesn't always make
his mark elsewhere. Threet's 200
passes last year were more than
the other eight ever attempted in a
season, but nobody knows what's
in store for Threet.
But it's clear Threet's past is
impressive, even if he didn't put up
electrifyingnumbers. His attitude
speaks much louder.
When the season was still full of
promise, Sheridan flicked an eight-
yard touchdown pass to freshman
Michael Shaw to give the Wolver-
ines a 7-0 lead over Utah in the
season-opener.
Nobody was more excited than
Threet. He greeted Sheridan
on the sidelines with his arms
stretched wide and hugged the
man who had just taken the job he
wanted so badly.
Whatever happens from here,
credit Threet for handling a dif-
ficult season with class.
- Feldman wants to know
what happened with Johnson
and Palmer. He can be reached
at danfeldumich.edu.

Sophomore records
two assists during first
game in month
By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
Earlier this season, Michigan
hockey coach Red Berenson would
have been happy with just three
healthy defensive parings.
But now some of his players
would be happy with a little more
time on the ice.
In a role rever-
sal from earlier NOTEBOOK
this year, when
the fourth-ranked Wolverines had
three injured players on the blue
line, Michigan players are now bat-
tling it out on the ice and in practice
for a spot on one of those pairings.
And no one knows that more then
sophomore Scooter Vaughan.
In last weekend's series against
Nebraska-Omaha, it was a relief for
Vaughan to get back some playing
time. The last time Vaughan saw
game action was in Michigan's 3-0
loss to Bowling Green a month ago.
Both Berenson and Vaughan saw
things they liked on the ice, but also
saw plenty ofrust in Vaughan's game
that has to be cleaned if he wants to
keep his playing time.
"He showed that he hadn't played
in awhile," Berenson said.
And though he made mistakes in
both games, Vaughan contributed

at a time when his team needed it
most.
With Michigan leading 4-3 Fri-
day night, Vaughan helped spark
a four-goal third period by adding
two assists in less than 30 seconds.
"It's just nice to get back out there
and contribute," Vaughan said.
"That's what I came to school to do,
is to get on the ice and play hockey."
After the losses of senior captain
Mark Mitera, junior Steve Kampfer
and freshman Brandon Burlon at the
blue line earlier this season, plenty of
spots were open on defense. But with
Burlon and Kampfer both return-
ing and the possible return of Mit-
era within a few weeks, open spots
became limited on the active roster.
Vaughan and the rest of the defen-
seman realize this, which helps cre-
ate healthy competition between
the blueliners. They know that they
must make the most of playing time
or else they might not see it again for
the rest of the season.
That's why Vaughan knows what
he needs to do to stay on the ice.
"Keep working and keep per-
forming when I get the opportunity
to play," Vaughan said. "It starts in
practice, so I work hard there and
work hard in the weight room. Then
when it becomes Friday and Satur-
day night, just show why I should be
out there."
FINALLY POWERFUL PLAY: If
there's one facet that mirrors the
Wolverines' season exactly, it's on
the man advantage.
Sometimes it's hot, sometimes it's

nonexistent and sometimes it's hit
or miss.
After going scoreless on its last 12
power plays coming into last week-
end, Michigan excelled against the
Mavericks.
The Wolverines scored on five of
its 10 power-play chances, four on
Friday night and one on Saturday.
"The only thing I liked about the
game wastthe power play," Berenson
said. "We got some offense going."
PALUSHAJ'S BIG NIGHT: When
a team scores eight goals in one
game, that's something special. And
it's even more so when one player is
involved in five of the tallies.
Sophomore forward Aaron
Palushaj assisted on four goals and
scored one Friday. He set a career
high in single-game points and
assists.
"It is probably just the puck
bouncing my way," Palushaj said.
"I got a goal though, which is nice,
but I wasn't really doing too much.
I was just moving the puck and we
were bearing hard."
Palushaj's lone goal came off a
deflection of a shot by sophomore
Carl Hagelin for the Wolverines'
sixth goal of the night. Three of his
helpers came on the power play.
MITERA UPDATE: Yesterday,
senior Mark Mitera participated in
his first full-contact practice since
sustaining a knee injury in the first
weekend of the season. Check out
http://thegarne.blogs.michigandaily.
com for more information on Mit-
era's recovery.

Blue back in conference title race

As the final buzzer sound-
ed, the Michigan men's
basketball team walked
off Northwestern's Welsh Ryan
Arena floor with a much-needed
70-67 win in its third overtime
game of the
season.
But what
would have
happened if
Michigan lost r
Sunday in
.Evanston?
If the Wol- RUTH
verines had LINCOLN
dropped their _
eighth game in 10 tries and fallen
to 5-8 in the Big Ten?
If they let another winnable
road game slip by?
If Michigan's top scorers
couldn't put up their characteris-
tic numbers?
"Forget about all those tour-
naments everyone talks about,"
Michigan coach John Beilein
said at his weekly radio show last
night. "You've got to get some
momentum going. It's the bounce
of a ball that can change your
whole season."
Or the power of one drive to
the basket:
Sophomore forward Manny
Harris showcased his slashing
ability and exploded with 25
points in the second half and
overtime.
Or the stroke of a smooth

jumpshot:
Redshirt freshman Laval
Lucas-Perry scored in double
figures for the first time in more
than a month.
Or a team on the road having
just enough poise to eke out a
win:
The Wolverines cane back
from an opposing team's venue
with the sweet taste of victory
for just the second time this sea-
son.
Instead of seeing its NCAA
Tournament hopes slip fur-
ther away, Michigan got the
confidence boost it desperately
needed.
"We're happy to get it," said
fifth-year senior guard C.J. Lee,
who played a team-high 40 min-
utes Sunday. "Now it's on to our
next game. ... It's the first one of a
few that we have to get."
Beilein has made it very clear
he doesn't want to talk about
the NCAA Tournament, instead
stressing day-to-day and long-
term improvement.
But now it's Feb. 17, and con-
ference standings across the
nation have started to take shape.
Well, unless you play in the Big
Ten.
With Sunday's win, Michigan
threw itself right back into the
conference race.
Have you noticed the Big Ten
standings after this weekend?
Well, here's a recap. Michigan

State is good. Really good. Unless
the norovirus sweeps through
the Breslin Center as quickly as it
did the Ross School of Business,
the Spartans will undoubtedly
win their first outright regular-
season conference crown since
2001.
Illinois and Purdue are in good
shape to finish strong, too.
The rest of the pack?
It's a logjam in the middle.
Fourth through eighth place -
Ohio State, Minnesota, Penn
State, Wisconsin and Michigan
- are within 1.5 games of each
other.
And with five regular-season
games left, it's anyone's at-large
bid to lose.
If you've watched Selection
Sunday the last few years and
have been drastically disap-
pointed with the Big Ten's four-
or five-bid showings in the NCAA
Tournament, this March might
be a pleasant surprise.
The Big Ten has the nation's
second-highest RPI, behind the
Atlantic Coast Conference. That's
right. The lowly Big Ten has a
higher RPI than the Big East and
could get six or seven bids in the
NCAA Tournament.
"The Big Ten will get every
team that it deserves in it," Bei-
lein said. "We did our work out
of conference. We will get credit.
Don't worry about all the guys
that think the ACC is the only
league you can go to or the big,
bad Big East. If you listen to the
commentators, there are 105
teams that will get in it."
Well, only 65 teams actually
make the Big Dance. And after
Sunday's win, Michigan regained
the confidence and positioning to
compete for one of those spots.
- Lincoln is thankful she's an
LSA student and never caught
the norovirus. She can be reached
at lincolnr@umich.edu.
The Michigan
baseball team hosted
its annual "Meet
the Wolverines" fan
night last night. For an article
and a multimedia video about
the event, visit The Michigan
Daily's website:
http://www.michigandaily.com.

4
t


