4JW 46P

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, October 26, 2009

michigandaily.com

Late night inferno guts
building on South U.
About 600 residents
displaced for hours from
nearby University Towers
By MALLORY JONES
and EMILY ORLEY
Daily StaffReporters
University students and Ann Arbor resi-
dents lined South University Avenue Sat-
urday night just like any other weekend,
eager to get into the restaurants and bars
* along the crowded street.
But the scene drastically changed after a
large fire broke out on the west side of the
street.
The former location of Pinball Pete's, at
1217 S. University Ave., caught fire a little
before 11 p.m. Saturday night, drawing
hundreds of displaced students, firefighters
and police officers to what quickly became
a hectic scene.
Ann Arbor Assistant Fire Chief Ed
Dziubinski told The Michigan Daily that
firefighters first responded to a 911 call
received at 10:51 p.m.
Four fire crews immediately rushed
to the scene. After initial reports were
received from the firefighters on scene,
the chief deputy called in a fifth crew for
backup. Five minutes later, the Pittsfield
Township and Ann Arbor Township fire
departments were asked to send one crew
each to the growing blaze.
"At the height of the fire there were 55
firefighters actively fighting," Dziubinski
said.
The fire became so large that there was
concern it would spread to neighboring
University Towers, an adjacent apartment CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
building that houses hundreds of Univer- A raging fire ravaged the former location of Pinball Pete's on South University Avenue late Saturday
sity students. night. The fire caused the structure's roof to cave in. As firefighters worked to quell the flames, a
See FIRE, Page 8A crowd assembled across the street to watch the blaze.

MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Measuring-stick
gameproves
Blue's mediocrity
R ich Rodriguez was unusually the year last week, though, when he
calm - oddly calm, really - a- and his teammates said eagerly that the
few minutes after his team's Penn State game was the start of their
embarrassing25-point home loss to Penn "second season." Other Wolverines said
State. No sarcastic, biting comments. No Saturday's game would be a step on the
cutting reporters off or snapping back road to.reviving Rose Bowl and Big Ten
at them when they said something he championship hopes. It's funny, then,
didn't want to hear. that the moment this week's 'L' was
He was introspec- . recorded, Graham feels this game all of
tive and reflective, a sudden won't be memorable.
talking about how But for now, let's go along with that
the coaches need to logic. That means that we shouldn't
be patient with his remember Michigan's thriller over Notre
first-year quarter- Dame - where Tate Forcier proved he's
backs and be more quite an impressive freshman quarter-
accountable for the COURTNEY back - and Michigan's comeback vic-
team's mistakes. tory over Indiana. After we forget about
After spitting fire RATKOWIAK those, what's left to remember isn't
when his team lost in pretty.
the game's last min- Michigan had the perfect opportu-
utes to both Michigan State and Iowa, nity to make a statement this weekend
his change in demeanor was more than against a big-time conference opponent.
a little unnerving. David Molk was finally back at center.
But it made sense. After all, in the Wol- Forcier practiced all week for the first
verines' first blowout loss of the season, time since he injured his shoulder exact-
he had already had two quarters' worth ly one month ago. Denard Robinson was
of time to resign himself to the fact his coming off a confidence-building pass
team had been outplayed. With two performance last week. The whole team
close losses to Big Ten teams already in should have felt alittle better about itself
Michigan's past, Saturday's Penn State after last week's 57-point win, even if it
game was truly the measuring stick for was only against a Division 1-AA team.
these Wolverines - and they fell disap- But instead, the Wolverines fumbled
pointingly short. and bumbled their way to a 2008-esque
Senior defensive end Brandon Gra- embarrassment. Turnovers were a mas-
ham didn't quite agree. sive problem in last year's debacle of a
"It's all about how you finish," he laid. season, and they returned in shocking
"People not gonna remember this right force Saturday.
now, they're gonna remember how you Robinson's second-quarter intercep-
finish." tion after the team got two first downs
He wasn't talking about the end of See RATKOWIAK, Page 10A


* CAMPUS SAFETY
Campus gun ban could
be reversed by House bill

COMBATING SWINE FLU
As HiNi vaccine production lags,
officials worry of 'second wave'

DPS chief says bill could
make campus less safe
before House committee
By NICOLE ABER
Daily StaffReporter
Institutions of higher learning might
soon be prohibited from making it illegal
to carry concealed firearms on campus.
Michigan House of Representatives Bill
5474 - introduced by state Rep. Wayne

Schmidt (R-Traverse City) - would super-
sede aUniversity ordinance that makes the
entire campus weapons-free, according to
Diane Brown, Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman.
However, the legislation would not over-
turn a state lawalready in effectwhich pro-
hibits concealed firearms in certain places
like classrooms, dormitories and arenas,
according to Brown.
State Rep. James Bolger (R-Marshall),
who co-introduced the bill, said it aims
to eliminate inconsistencies in concealed
See GUN BAN, Page 9A


Though number of cases
at UHS has decreased,
officials say the virus
may spread once again
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
University Health Service has only
received 500 of the 25,000 swine flu vaccine
doses it ordered this summer for University
students and faculty, according to UHS
Medical Director Robert Ernst.
That shortage mirrors similar situations
facing municipality officials and college
administrators across the country, frustrat-
ed with a nationwide lag in the production
and distribution of the H1N1 vaccine.
And officials here say that that shortfall
could strain medical resources on campus
as they expect a "second wave" of swine flu
cases to hit Ann Arbor in the coming weeks.
Despite the fact that the White House
declared the swine flu outbreak a national
emergency onSaturday and that health offi-
cials had previously promised thatlarge vac-
cine quantities would be available as early
as the first week of October, they are now
sayingthe vaccine may not be accessible on
a large scale until as late as December.
"The entire country is seeing a signifi-
cantly lower availability of vaccine than we
had anticipated, and it's a nationwide prob-
lem - not a local problem," Ernst said.
According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, as of Oct. 21,
more than 11 million doses of the vac-
cine have been shipped - with 308,300
doses sent to clinics, hospitals and health
departments in Michigan.

In total, the federal governmenthas pur-
chased 250 million doses for distribution,
but only 16 million doses have been made
available.
The CDC said quantities of the vaccine
are being shipped as soon as they are avail-
able. UHS receives all vaccines from the
Washtenaw County Health Department.
Ernst said the health department has only
received 30 percent of its expected sup-
ply, which is why the University has so few
available vaccines.
Cindra James, emergency preparedness
coordinator for the Washtenaw County
Health Department, said the county has
received about 1,000 doses of the nasal
spray and 1,000 doses of the injection shot.
While the department has vaccinated
about 500 people so far, James said it is frus-
trated that it doesn't have the resources to
vaccinate more county residents.
"We can't (vaccinate) enough of the pop-
ulation like we wantto," James said.
On campus, the number of swine flu
cases has ebbed and flowed as the semester
has progressed.
Accordingto Ernst, UHS saw the great-
est amount of H1N1 cases during the sec-
ond week of classes - with as many as 50
cases a day.
UHS has seen fewer H1N1 cases in the
last two to three weeks - with an estimated
five to 10 cases showing up each day.
However, Ernst said he expectsthe num-
ber of cases to increase in the coming weeks,
citing 16 cases at UHS lastThursday.
He added that H1N1 has exhibited a pre-
dictable pattern of high and low infection
periods andsaid otherschools and universi-
ties have reported high volumes of cases at
the beginning of classes and then a "cooling
off period" before a second wave hits.
"We're concerned that we may be at the

BY THE NUMBERS
The state of swine flu on campous

Numberof swine flu caseslUHS saw last Thursday
- a harbinger, oneofficial says, for what could be
a second wave of the virus's spread on campus.
beginning of a second wave right now," he
said. "That's also consistent with what the
(Washtenaw County) Health Department
is reporting at elementary and secondary
schools in the community."
Ernst said it's important for people to
not become complacent with flu preven-
tion strategies like washing hands, covering
coughs and keeping hands away from your
mouth, nose and eyes.
"The most important thing is that if you
are sick please limit your contact with other
people," Ernst said, adding that people with
the H1N1 virus should isolate themselves
for at least 24 hours after their fevers break.
For those seeking the vaccine, the health
See SWINE FLU, Page 10A

TOREHAN SHA ARMAN/Daily or more photos of the 77th
Members of the Sigma Alpha tpsilon (purple) and Phi. Kappa Psi PoraMBo lhoto seoft iithour
(blue) fraternities met for the 77th annual Mud wow, game at the websiteatemicigandais.cm or
SAE fraternity Saturday morning. SAE won the game 19-12.


WEATHER HI:58
TOMORROW LO: 49

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail DPS issues crime alert about unarmed robbery
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS.................................2A ART.S................. A
Vol. CXX, No.33 SUDOKU................3A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
m©309TheMichiganDaily OPINION.........................4A SPORTS MONDAY ........11


2A - Monday, October 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, October 26, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *
THURSDAY: FRIDAY:

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
MARCHING TO THEIR OWN DRUMS

Chancellor quits over admissions scandal

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-neon
graco@michigondaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailtcom

University of Illinois Chan-
cellor Richard Herman resigned
last Wednesday after facing
scrutiny for his involvement in
an admissions scandal, accord-
ing to The New York Times.
A governor-appointed inde-
pendent commission found
that the university's admissions
office had been giving prefer-
ential treatment to applicants
with powerful connections,
according to the article.
The existence of a so-called
"clout list" was first uncovered
by the Chicago Tribune in May.
The university's president,
B. Joseph White, resigned last
month.
According to the Times, the
report "cited several instances
in which Mr. Herman lobbied
successfully on behalf of politi-
cians to have certain students
admitted, including honoring a
request by Rod R. Blagojevich,
the indicted former governor."

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
STUDENTS FAST TO END
HUNGER
Last Thursday, 1,100 stu-
dents at the University of
Texas at Austin participated in
a Fast-A-Thon to raise hunger
awareness for the Austin com-
munity, according to The Daily
Texan.
Members of the univer-
sity's Muslim Students Asso-
ciation, which organized the
event, hoped to help the com-
munity learn about Muslim
culture as well, The Daily
Texan reported.
The event coincided with
Ramadan, an Islamic holiday
during which observers are
forbidden from eating after
sunrise and before sunset. To
raise money and fight hunger, a
dollar was donated to the Capi-
tal Area Food Bank of Texas
for each person who pledged to

fast, The Daily Texan reported.
ALLEGED GEORGETOWN
SHOOTER RELEASED
AFTER HEARING
Georgetown University's stu-
dentnewspaper, The Hoya, reports
that police released a Georgetown
freshman Tuesday sftec being
charged with possession of a
weapon without alicense.
The student, Alex Thiele,
allegedly stole a .40-caliber
weapon from a U.S. Tack Police
officer and fired it in a men's
bathroom during a basketball
pep rally, damaging a toilet
from the shot, according to
The Hoya.
When found in his dorm
room, no gun was found in his
possession. Georgetown stu-
dents received e-mail alerts on
Saturday regarding the inci-
dent, the article said.
- MIKE MERAR

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom o
Sews Tips
Corrections
Letters tothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Pate
Sparts Section
Display Sales
tlassified Sales
Onire Sales
Finance

ncwsgmichiandailycom
cormrcions@michigandaity.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
phoo@michigandaily.com
arrspeog@micigandaiy.con
opinion@michigandaily.com
sporrsgicigandaiy.com
display@mihiandaiy.com

i

classified@nichigandaily.con
onlineads@michigandaity.cm
finance@nichigandaiy.com

tngineering senior Justin Hopkins, section leader of the marching band drum
flone, practices with his teammates Friday in preparation for Saturday's game.

CRIME NOTES
Pills stolen from Potty tipped

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

International Yoga classes at
law workshop Hillel

nIUspld1i
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday at about 12 am.
WHAT: Astaff member was
arrested for allegedly stealing
nine tablets of Hydrocodone from
a staff-controlled area, University
Police reported. She was released
pending further authorization.

WHERE: Parking lot by Yost
Ice Arena
WHEN: Saturday at about 3:1S
p.m.
WHAT: Two male visitors
tipped over a Part-O-Potty
before Saturday's game, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
men were arrested and released
pending further authorization.

Fruit thrown at Man pushed
South Quad down stairs
WHERE: Outside South Quad WHERE: Law Quad
WHEN: Saturday at about 3:45 WHEN: Saturday at about 3:15
am. a.m.
WRAT: Two male subjects were WHAT: An intoxicated student
seenrthrowing fruitnjuice, barbe- reported he was pushed down
cue sauce, lemons and apples at the stairs, University Police
the building, University Police reported. He was transferred to
reported. There are no suspects. Huron Valley Medical Center,
MORE ONLINE
Lote Crime Notes? Gel Born online at michigandaily.cmblogs/the wireVN

WHAT: A seminar to
address and debate current
issues in international and
comparative law.
WHO: Center for Inter-
national and Comparative
Law
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Mall
Policy analyst
lecture
WHAT: A lecture featuring
speaker Michele Garfinkel,
a policy analyst at the Craig
Venter Institute. She will
discuss current projects in
the field.
WHO: Science, Technology
and Public Policy Program
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Mall

WHAT: Hillel offers yoga
classes taught by a pro-
fessional yoga instructor
Mondays and Thursdays.
Classes cost $5 for stu-
dents. Mats are provided.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Today from 6:30 to
7:45 p.m.
WHERE: Hillel
CORRECTIONS
. An article in Friday's
edition of the Daily (Con-
tinuous enrollment still an
issue) mistakenly reported
that Associate Dean Peggy
McCracken accepted the
resolutions. It should have
said she accepted the letter
of support.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

~Aprisoner in a Swedish jail
received the equivalent of
I$2,700 in compensation
after injuring his pinky while
playing ping pong, Swedish
newspaper The Local report-
ed. He was determined to have
suffered pain, injury and scar-
ring before obtaining the com-
pensation.
2The U.S. Congress passed
an amendment to the
federal hate crimes bill
Thursday to include those dis-
criminated against as a result
of sexual orientation, gender
identity and disability.
>>FOR MORt, Stt OPINION, PAGt 4A
3 In an effort to deter
drunken passersby from
urinating in front of his
music store, an Irish business-
man wired an electric cur-
rent on the pavement outside
his shop, dailyrecord.co.uk
reported.

EDITORIAL STAFF
taurtneyRalkawiak ManagingEtditor ratkowiak@michigandaiy.com
Jacnb Snilnoita Managing ewsrEditron militzr@nicthigandaiy.com
SENIOR S ms ORS:oMatt Aroso,Jillian Bem,Trvor Cccalero,Jen
Skoller, Kye Swanson
ASoSSANWSEORS:oNsiole uAber,ialorns m oily OeStephanie
Steinber, Eoscmcr Tirucackkarasu
Robert Soave EditoriatePageuEditron avenrimichigandaiyscom
Ardy Reid ManagingSportditor reid@michitacdaity.czn
juLncl,C Ax Posido
DavidWatnick ManagingAnou ditrn watnick@michigandailyscom
Zachary Wtisnrrand photo@michigandailymco
lif eeder Managing Photo ditrs
SmoENOOTO EDIOSSidltA~lsahChanel oabbug-Lothingen
ArtelatChih and design@nichigandaitycrom
MaureenStyth Managing DesignEditors
Jessica Vasterchian MagazinerEditorncvosgrcian@mihigandaiy.com
tatherine Mitchell Copy chief mirchett@nichigandaiy.czm
AuSSOCATECsOPY CHEF:elaie Frid, AdimWollsei
BUSINESS STAFF
Katielazwiak SatesMacage,
SALES nOENsAGER:uollycTw igg
Ryan Busirski Ctassified Manaer
CLSSIFIEDoASSSANT MA uNAGR:Kala Laeat
Ben trglish Production Manager
Alisor Satreu LayoutsMnager
Vivian Lee FinaneManagen
Brittany MoralesCciultion aager
Brad Wiley PectnnCoordinorn
The Michigantal (ISSN074-97)s pblishiedoytrough Fiday duringegfll anxintrr
terms bystudentat tenUnivrstyatofihia.stne opyisavalablefree ofcharge oal ,rader.
Adiitmon cia eidup at thetily' c or $. ubriptstrfll termsartigi
Septrember, via At. mai ae $10 inteOir tem(Jnanatrughpril i$115,yarlong (Septebr
throuhApril) i $195.nverity filiteersbjct to ardcd subsciptioae.trn-anus
subscritioncfr fall termre $3. ubriptionmust be repaid.The MichkigDily isaeberof
TeAsociersn TesoiateCllegatePress

0

0

M :

EXCiN6 t
'CIY9ONEAPTI
Te~UniversityA
St Abroad Program
Undergraduate Courses:
*Middle East Stud ies
*Fine Arts Studios
*Management &Economics,
*Life Sciences
Graduate Programs:
+Masters in Middle Eastern History
*Masters in Conflict Resolution and Mediation k
*ESOL -Teaching English to Speakers A , k
of Other Languages -I--
* www.telavivuniv.org

10

0

0

a

a

6



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 26, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
*No Worker Left
Behind is working
Most of those who completed job
retraining duringthe first 18 months
of Michigan's No Worker Left Be-
hind program either kept their jobs
or gained new employment, accord-
ingto astate review.
Of the nearly 34,360 people who
finished training between August
2007 and February 2009, about
24,700, or 72 percent, either retained
work or got a new job, while about
9,660, or 28 percent, were still look-
ing for a job, according to the report
being released today. It found more
than16,840kepttheirjobs and about
7,860 foundnewemployment.
No Worker Left Behind offers up
to $10,000 over two years to workers
who attend community colleges or
other training programs. It's over-
seen by the Michigan Department
of Energy, Labor and Economic
Growth, which compiled the review.
"We really may be on to some-
thing here in terms of putting more
people into training and especially
into longer-term training," Andy
Levin, the agency's deputy director,
told The Associated Press ahead of
the report's release.
PALM BEACH, Fla.
Friend of Madoff
found dead at the
bottom of his pool
Jeffry Picower, a philanthropist
accused ofprofitingmorethan$7bil-
lion from the investment schemes of
his longtime friend Bernard Madoff,
was found at the bottom of the pool
at his oceanside mansion and died
yesterday, police said. He was 67.
Picower'swifediscoveredhis body
and pulled him from the water with
help from a housekeeper, authori-
ties said. He was pronounced dead at
Good Samaritan Medical Center at
about1:30 p.m.
Palm Beach police are investigat-
ingthe death as adrowning,buthave
not ruled out anything on the cause
of death.
Picower's body showed no visible
injuries, said Joseph Sekula, spokes-
man for the Palm Beach Fire Depart-
ment.
"There wasn't anything noted
as far as trauma or anything to
the body," he said, adding that "it
did appear that he was swimming
because he was wearing swimming
trunks."
TEHRAN, IRAN
UN inspectors visit
secret Iranian site
U.N. inspectors entered a once-
secret uranium enrichment facility
with bunker-like construction and
Wheavy military protection that raised
Western suspicions about the extent
and intent of Iran's nuclear program.
The visit yesterday by the four-
member International Atomic Ener-
gy Agency team, reported by state
media,was the firstindependentlook
inside the planned nuclear fuel lab, a
former ammunition dump burrowed
into the treeless hills south of Teh-
ran and only publicly disclosed last

month. The inspectors are expected
to study plant blueprints, interview
workers and take soil samples before
wrappingup the three-day mission.
No results from the inspection are
expected until the team leaves the
country, but some Iranian officials
hailed the visit as an example that
their nuclear program was open to
international scrutiny.
"IAEA inspectors' visit to Fordo
shows that Iran's nuclear activities
are transparent and peaceful," the
official IRNA news agency quoted
lawmaker Hasan Ebrahimi as say-

Jury acquits
Milano of felony
assault charges

Former football
walk-on convicted
of misdemeanor
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
Former University football
walk-on Mike Milano was
acquitted Thursday of felony
assault charges stemming from
a confrontation between him
and a University hockey player
last October. But the Washt-
enaw County jury did convict
him of aggravated assault, a
misdemeanor charge.
Circuit Judge David Swartz,
however, recommended
Milano file an order to have
the misdemeanor conviction
expunged, and that he would
be willing to sign it, according
to John Shea, Milano's defense
attorney.
Milano will be eligible to
have the misdemeanor convic-
tion expunged five years from
the date of sentencing, accord-
ing to Michigan law.
In an interview after the
trial, Shea explained the ben-
efits of expunging the convic-
tion from Milano's record.
"Expunging the conviction
does not only remove it from
his record, but Mike would
also be able to truthfully say
he has never been convicted of
that crime," Shea said.
Shea continued to say that
expunging the conviction is a
good option for Milano, though
it may not be the only one.
"I'm quite certain that Mike
will seek to have (the convic-
tion) set aside once the five
years passes," Shea said. "That
is, unless we find a way to
remove the conviction before
then."
Milano's sentencing is
scheduled for Dec. 3, where
he could face up to one year
in county jail for aggravated
assault, as opposed to the
maximum of 10 years in prison
that he would have faced with
a felony conviction.
The misdemeanor convic-
tion comes after a confronta-
tion that occurred between
Milano and former University
hockey player Steve Kampfer

on Oct. 12, 2008, which result-
ed in Kampfer's hospitaliza-
tion and him missing hockey
activities for two months.
The incident began when
Kampfer got into an argument
with his ex-girlfriend outside
of Rick's American Caf6 on
Church Street, according to an
annarbor.com article. Milano
then confronted Kampfer and
the two began to argue them-
selves.
During the trial, Washtenaw
County Assistant Prosecutor
Paul Barnett said the argu-
ment appeared to be over until
Kampfer said one final word
and angered Milano, according
to the annarbor.com article.
The four-day trial that
ended on Oct. 23 included the
testimonies of both Milano
and Kampfer, along with other
eye-witnesses and character
witnesses, according to the
annarbor.com article.
Milano testified that he
confronted Kampfer for being
rough with the woman he
was arguing with. Kampfer
told the jury that he could not
remember many details of the
assault itself, though he said
he had only grabbed his ex-
girlfriend's wrist in order to
keep her from walking away,
not to threaten her, according
to annarbor.com.
The article also said that
Milano's defense attorney,
John Shea, questioned the
credibility of eyewitnesses
to the incident, as there were
conflicting stories concerning
the manner in which Milano
grabbed Kampfer.
The jury deliberated for
almost seven hours before
announcing the acquittal of
the felony charges and the
conviction of the assault mis-
demeanor, according to the
article.
Shea told the Daily that
while Milano is happy to be
acquitted of the felony, he is
still disappointed that he was
convicted of the misdemeanor,
believing he did the right thing
the night of the incident.
Michigan Associate Athlet-
ic Director Bruce Madej said
over e-mail that the Athletic
Department would not com-
ment on result of the trial.

An Iraqi Army soldier stands guard as Iraqis gather at the site of a massive bomb attack at the Ministry of Justice in Baghdad
yesterday. Iraq police say that a pair of powerful explosions rocked downtown Baghdad.
Two suicide car bo-mbs in
Baghdad target government
Deadliest attack intwo three American contractors. The attacks occurred just hours
The street where the blasts before Iraq's top leadership was
years leaves 147 dead, occurred had just been reopened scheduled to meet with heads of
to vehicle traffic six months ago. political parties in order to reach a
at least 721wounded Shortly after, blast walls were repo- compromise on election guidelines
sitioned to allow traffic closer to the needed to holdthe January vote.
BAGHDAD (AP) - A pair of sui- government buildings. Such changes President Barack Obama, who
cide car bombings yesterday dev- weretoutedby Iraq's Prime Minister earlier this week reaffirmed the
astated the heart of Iraq's capital, Nouri al-Maliki as a sign that safety U.S:s commitment to withdrawing
killing at least 147 people in the was returning tothe city. its troops from the country, called al-
country's deadliest attack in more The Iraqileaderwalked amongthe Malikitoofferhis condolences.
than two years. The bombs target- mangled and blackened cars, which "Thesebombingsservenopurpose
ed two government buildings and lay in front of blast walls that had other than the murder of innocent
called into question Iraq's ability been decorated with peaceful street men, women and children, and they
to protect its people as U.S. forces scenes of Iraq. At the Justice Minis- only reveal the hateful and destruc-
withdraw. try, windows and walls on both sides tive agenda of those who would deny
The bombings show that insur- of the street were blown away, and the Iraqi people the future that they
gents still have the ability to launch blood pooled with water from burst deserve," Obama said.
horrific attacks even as violence has pipes. Thefactthatthevehicleswereable
dropped dramatically in Iraq. Many Al-Maliki has staked his political to get into an area home to numer-
fear such attacks will only increase reputation and re-election bid on his ous government institutions - just
as Iraq prepares for crucial January ability to bring peace to the country hundreds of yards from the heavily
elections. and pledged to punish those respon- fortified Green Zone where the U.S.
The dead included 35 employ- sible, who he said wanted to "spread Embassy and the prime minister's
ees at the Ministry of Justice and chaos in the country, undermine the office are located- sparked demands
at least 25 staff members of the political process and prevent the thatthoseinchargeofthecity'ssecu-
Baghdad Provincial Council, said holding of parliamentary elections." ritybe held accountable.
police and medical officials speak- But the Sunday attacks seemed "Those responsible for security
ing on condition of anonymity designed to paint the Iraqi leader as and intelligence should be checked
because they were not authorized incapable of providingsecurity to the and interrogated," said Sunni Iraqi
to speak to the media. At least 721 beleaguered city, undermining much lawmaker Wathab Shakir. "Why
people were wounded, including ofhis politicalsupport. should innocentpeoplebekilled?"

FOLLOW THE DAILY
ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
@michdailynews
@michdailysports

H PV Fact:
It is estimated
that
US, there is a
new, case of


log.
CARACAS, Venezuela U H i U
Venezuela bodies
found, border
security increased 4 7 8 2
Ten men who belonged to the 3 1
same soccer team were slain exe-
cution-style nearly two weeks after
being abducted in a crime that Ven- 7 2 5
ezuela said yesterday could be the
work of warring factions in neigh- 7 1 5
boring Colombia.
Venezuelan troops stepped up 7 _
security patrols in the area near
the Colombian border after the
bodies of 10 men, most of them
Colombians, were found in multi-
ple spots in western Tachira state 3 9 8
Saturday, Vice President Ramon
Carrizalez said. 5 1
The victims were among a group
of 12 men who authorities say were 6 8 2
kidnapped Oct. 11 from a field where
they were playing soccer.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


There's somethini
Vsi you r

i


14


4A - Monday, October 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

L74C Mich wily
t*pan

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

For me, no burqas on the street."
- Eric Besson, French immigration minister, commenting as policymakers in France consider banning
Muslim women from wearing head-to-toe veils, as reported yesterday by the Associated Press.
Health care and pig products

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All othersigned articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Stop the hate
Obama must take stronger stance on LGBT discrimination
The occurrence of a violent crime is never something to be
taken lightly by the corrections system. But when a vio-
lent crime is motivated by an individual's hatred of a cer-
tain type of people, federal law makes the punishment for such
an offense more severe. On Thursday, the U.S. Congress passed
an amendment to the federal hate crimes bill that would extend
the definition of hate crimes to include sexual orientation, gen-
der identity and physical disability - minorities who had lacked
protection and recognition under the existing bill until now. And
while President Barack Obama should indeed sign the bill, there
are other actions he should take to end blatant discrimination in
government policy.

German Chancellor Otto von
Bismarck once said, "Laws
are like sausages: it's bet-
ter not to see them
being made." What
he meant was that
the compromises
and payoffs neces-yo vl
sary to move leg-
islation generally
aren't pretty and
often involve fudg-mit
ing on ideals to pass PATRICK
a reasonably good O'MAHEN
policy.
Crafting the
current health care legislation is no
exception to this statement, and it's
likely that Congressional Democrats
pushing a strong public option will
face a moment of truth on the slaugh-
terhouse floor in November.
Assuming they do not have the
votes to pass a bill with a pure public
option, Democrats should embrace a
compromise allowingstates to opt out
of a national public option. Despite a
few weaknesses, the opt-out plan will
accomplish most of the goals a pure
public option would and is far supe-
rior to other potential compromises
currently being discussed.
And remember, effective health
insurance reform is critical to recent-
ly graduated college students, who
are disproportionately likely to be
uninsured.
Why is the public option so impor-
tant? By providing a government-run
insurance plan, insurance companies
gain an additional competitor. Given
the government's history of running
highly efficient programs like Medi-
care - which has overhead costs of
three percent compared with the 12 to
20 percent overhead most insurance
companies have - a public option will
force insurers to keep rates lower in
order to compete, which would curb
health care costs.
The key when grinding out a com-

promise is to ensure that the sausage
still has some real meat in it -that the
final plan has the ability to curb costs.
The first two compromises, health
cooperatives and triggers, don't pass
USDA inspection.,
Cooperatives, championed by Sen.
Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), create state-
wide, consumer-owned co-ops. The
problem is that most have failed in
the past. Also, as political scientist
and public-option architect Jacob
Hacker points out in the most recent
issue of the New England Journal of
Medicine, most state-level co-ops
would be too small to negotiate rates
with health providers, canceling out
the benefits of a public option. Con-
rad's plan is like putting lipstick on a
sick pig.
Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine)
has suggested creating a "triggered"
public insurance option. If private
companies can't keep costs under
control in a state after several years, a
public plan will become available. But
Snowe's plan doesn't bring home the
bacon. As Hacker argues, her trigger's
requirements are so stringent that
the trigger won't get pulled. Making
a public plan available on a state-by-
state-basis also discards the size and
simplicity that allow a unified federal
plan to control costs.
Enter Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.),
who suggests providing a public
option that states can opt to join.
Carper's plan is a pig with wings -
but it needs one more adjustment to
fly. The problem is that putting the
burden on state governments to opt
into a program makes not joining a
plan the easier option.
Instead, giving states the option to
opt out of the plan, as suggested by
Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), leaves
states the flexibility to get out of the
plan if they wish, but it also puts the
burden of opting out on state legisla-
tors and governors, which takes time
and energy. As a result, most states -

or at least a solid core - will take part
in the public option, which will give it
enough size to negotiate lower rates.
One potential objection to the opt-
out plan is that states that keep the
public option will become welfare
magnets and draw low-income indi-
viduals from states that opt out. But
since the public option willbe funded
by premiums and not by state subsi-
dies, it doesn't do states any finan-
cial good to opt out. Finally, having
a public option actually will be good
for states by loweringindividual
premium costs and making the plan
more attractive for small businesses,
which currently face crushing costs
to insure their employees.
An opt-out public
option is the best
compromise.

0

The Matthew Shepard Act will amend
the hate crime bill created after the assas-
sination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in
1968. The original law defined hate crimes
as violent acts based upon race, color,
religious affiliation or nationality. The
amendment passed on Thursday would
add crimes prompted by sexual orienta-
tion, gender identity and disability to that
list. Included in the legislation was $680
billion in defense spending in an unsuc-
cessful effort to cater to Republicans. The
bill passed the Senate 68 to 29 with only
one Republican vote.
This bill comes at a time when recogniz-
ing the bigotry that the LGBT community
faces is more importantthan ever. Between
2006 and 2007, hate crimes against people
based on sexual orientation increased
5.5 percent, according to 2008 statistics
report from the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, the most recent available report.
And across the country, many states have
chosen to discriminate aainst gay people
by denying them equal marriage rights in
the last several election cycles - including
Michigan in 2004.
Excluding the LGBT community from
protection for so long was a drastic over-
sight on the part of federal lawmakers.
The legislation passed on Thursday will
finally recognize LGBT individuals - as

well as the disabled - as a minority group
deserving of the same protections against
violence based in abject hatred and intol-
erance. Whether or not the federal law is
successful in deterring hate crimes, it is a
symbolic gesture of support for communi-
ties often discriminated against.
But in addition to simply signing this
bill and offering largely symbolic support,
Obama has at his disposal the power to
end blatant discrimination. The military's
"Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy, which was
put in place by President Bill Clinton in
1993, prohibits openly gay members from
serving. During his campaign, Obama
repeatedly promised to end the policy.
Early this month, Obama reiterated his
commitment-to ending it. But promises are
no longer good enough - Obama has had
the power to end "Don't Ask, Don't Tell"
via executive order ever since he became
president. There is no reason to delay, and
Obama's hesitation on this issue sends
mixed messages.
The hate crimes legislation will make
a long-overdue statement against bigotry
directed at the LGBT community. But the
end of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" would spell
the demise of real discrimination in U.S.
federal policy. Obama has a responsibil-
ity not to let such discrimination continue
any longer.

There are weaknesses - the few
states that are likely to opt out also
tend to have embarrassingly high.
rates of uninsured individuals. For
example, the highest uninsured rate
in the country in 2008, according to
the Kaiser Foundation, is 27.7 per-
cent. That rate belongs to Texas, a
state well known for its reactionary
politics.
But at the end of the day, when
the pork hits the sausage grinder,
Schumer's opt-out compromise keeps
the goals of reform intact better than
other compromise options, if con-
gressional Democrats can't get the
votes to pass a pure public option. His
plan is far superior to the current-
ly embarrassing state of American
health insurance coverage.
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, Ben Caleca, Michelle Dewitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex, Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
The BlackBerry blues

0

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Michigan rifle team not an
obscure campus club
TO THE DAILY:
As the president of the club rifle Team here
at Michigan, myself and other members of the
team were extremely offended by your refer-
ence to our club sport as obscure (The cult(ure)
ofclub sports, 10/06/2009).
Seeing as that you aren't familiar with, nor
have you bothered to ask us anything about our
sport or visit our table at Festifall, allow me
introduce you to it.
The Michigan Rifle Team, a Rec Sports club
team, dates back to 1907. The club has histori-
cally offered women the opportunity to learn
and develop shooting skills. Throughout most
of the club's history, practices were held at
the University's ROTC range alongside the
ROTC rifle team. In the late 1990s, the build-
ing housing the ROTC range was demolished
and no new range was constructed on campus
to replace it. Since then, the Michigan rifle
team has used the Jackson County Sportsmans
Club's range, which is a 45 minute drive from

campus.
With over 300 people signing up to join
at Festifall and the Rec Sports Expo, it has
become painfully apparent to us that the pri-
mary hindrance to our membership is that we
must drive 45 minutes to practice, , and often
rely on rides from older shooters who commute
to Jackson from the Ann Arbor area. Most of
our expensive equipment is borrowed from
them. We also receive financial support from
individuals, Michigan businesses and corpo-
rate foundations. We can't be too obscure or
we wouldn't see such outside interest in our
team's performance.
The term "obscure" was simply unnecessary.
That was a judgment passed down by you with-
out having spoken to any of us and mostly with-
out basis. We sincerely request that in future
publications about club sports and varying
levels of popularity and competitiveness, you
either make appropriate contacts and garner
evidence for your statements, or avoid making
mention of clubs like ours entirely.
Cathy Fan
The letter-writer is president of the Michigan
rifle team.

spent an eye-opening couple of
hours with my great aunt and
uncle this past weekend. Amidst
talkoffamily stories
and recollections,
we started talking
about modern tech-
nology. When the
conversation start-
ed, I was naturally
typing away on my
BlackBerry, but put
my life on pause to PATRICK
hear what they had
to say. O'MAHEN
They are most
baffled about how kids today are so
fixated on using gadgets to keep in
constant contact with aslew offriends
and acquaintances, with whom they
often share intimate and personal
information. As a result of this mod-
ern phenomenon, my aunt and uncle
feel that much of our generation has
lost the ability (and desire) to deal
with others on a one-on-one basis.
While I initially scoffed at their
ideas, it did start me thinking about
whether we have become too tied to
our electronics. Is it possible that our
generation's technological gains and
consequential technological depen-
dency might adversely affects our
interpersonal skills? Personally, I
hardly take two steps without check-
ing my BlackBerry, and I don't think
anyone would be able to make do
without their own personalized tech-
nologies. Whether it's an iCal, Black-
Berry or Mac, on a campus as large as
this one, technology certainly helps
staff and students keep their scat-
tered lives somewhat in order. But it's
interesting to think how our super-
speed typing skills might hinder our
conversational skills - and how all
the ways we stay in touch might result

in us losing that human touch.
After all, although we can submit
job applications online, we inevitably
have to confront the dreaded world of
interviews alone and in person. This
certainly doesn't bode well for col-
lege-aged students (or anyone else,
for that matter) whose people skills
may be lacking due to their depen-
dence on technology. But this doesn't
seem to be on the radars of most col-
lege students.
Older- generations love to poke
fun at our gadget-dependent lives,
but they have a point. Cell phones
and e-mail have always been a part
of my life. I remember the moments
when I got my first cell phone and
e-mail address as vividly as I remem-
ber where I was when 9/11happened
- sad, but true. Throughout middle
school and high school, I grew to
love the convenience of making plans
via text and submitting assignments
online. Older generations may not
have been spoiled with these same
conveniences, but as a result, they
were forced to pick up the phone and
have one-on-one conversations far
more often than we do today.
Because these technological and
cultural changes occurred mainly
within the past century, I also find
it interesting to examine the Baby.
Boomer generation, better known
as our parents. My mother and I
have gotten in countless (and often
pointless) arguments over her need-
ing assistance with her new piece of
technology. Anyone who's seen a mid-
dle-aged man or woman awkwardly
poking at a cell phone knows exactly
what I mean. But while I find her
technological incompetence embar-
rassing, I must admit she engages in
far more personal contact as a result
of her struggles. While I might Google

an answer to a question, my mom
seeks help from someone face-to-
face - something she finds necessary
and I, her BlackBerry-brainwashed
daughter, will probably miss out on.
Inadditiontothesespecificgenera-
tional discrepancies, I also found that
even the rare times we do embrace
personal interaction, our obsession
with knowing everybody's every
move interferes. Our phones serve to
fill the "awkward silences" unique to
the 21st century. How are we expect-
ed to keep up a five minute conversa-
tion without the support of the six or
seven people we're conversing with
simultaneously in cyber space?
The texting
generation is
missing out.
Now when somebody enters aroom
full of people, rather than attempting
to strike up a conversation, he or she
can seek refuge in cyberspace and
remain fully engaged. I'm not sure
this bodes well for the upcoming pro-
fessional lives of today's college stu-
dents.
Obviously, I would still cry should
anyone ask me to go without my
electronics for a week. But there is
something a real person can convey
through a smile that an emoticon just
can't express. We should keep this
in mind lest the technological mania
leaves us lost in translation.
- Leah Potkin can be reached
at lpotkin@umich.edu.

0

HARUN BULJINA E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU
2 C L H ,0 ( K vj3~ G j
i i
- E
4j
F,
~4P'~i A~j/(ODDy~~5 ~KII? It 1'-

0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity
and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

6
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 26, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 26, 2009 - 5A

I

The caviats of criticism

We all fuck up. And
reviewing music can
be seen as one, big,
elaborate fuck-up - mascara-ed by
layers and layers
of frilly language
and Michael
Moore-esque
logic. One could
say I've been
feeling a little bit
cynical recently.
One could also JOSH
say I've been BAYER
feelinga little bit-
cynical ever since I started taking
psychology classes and reading
Kurt Vonnegut. But that's its own
thing.
When rookie writers first get
on music staff, the vast major-
ity of them come to me with the
exact same query: How do I review
music when I don't know what the
hell I'm talking about? And instead
of quellingtheir doubts, I'll feed
them something along the lines of:
"None of us know what we're talk-
ing about. I don't even know what
I'm talking about, and I'm the one
who's supposed to be helping you
learn how to review music. So, in
that sense, we all know what we're
talking about." Which is basically a
sophistic load of cheese-stuffed hot
air. But hey, false confidence is the
gateway drug to all happiness.
"Why so pessimistic?" you might
ask. Last week I reviewed Embry-
onic by The Flaming Lips and I
awarded it three stars - slightly
above average. I've been listening
to it relentlessly ever since. Not
because I'm audio-masochistic, but
because I've actually been enjoying
it quite thoroughly. At no point dur-
ing my relationship with the album
was I not at least highly intrigued.
But when I actually sat down to
critique the thing, my mind jumped
immediatelyto words like "flawed,"
"filler" and "disjointed."
Then there are records like The
Antlers' Hospice; records built to
be critic-proof. "Lush" composi-
tions? Check. Atmospheric variety
and build-and-release dynamics?
Check. An intricate lyrical narra-
tive that begs for "concept album"

status? Check-plus. Naturally, I
awarded the album four stars - an
entire heavenly body better than
Embryonic. But I haven't revisited
Hospice once since I lauded it about
six weeks ago. Why? Because, in all
honesty, it just isn't that much fun.
And Embryonic's about as fun as a
barrel of space monkeys.
But in order to snap into "critic
mode," I've conditioned myself to
systematically hate fun. All right,
maybe that's a complete overstate-
ment. But I have forced myself to
develop a set of concrete criticisms
with which to evaluate music. A
sort of flexible, revolving, subjec-
tive pseudo-heuristic that I like to
take with me when I go out poach-
ing albums. A set of "criteria" that
just so happened to clash with
Embryonic and mesh with Hospice.
This said, I archly stand by all
of the comments I made in both
reviews. It's just that, in the limited
space of an album review, I feel
it's my duty to expose the negative
underbellies of songs. And this is
where the whole Michael Moore
Fascinating and
flawed co-exist.
thing comes into play. Oftentimes,
I write a review with the muck-
raking mindset that, the more
criticisms I can come up with, the
worse an album is.
While the word "critique"
technically means "to analytically
assess the good and bad qualities
of something," we tend to attach
a much more negative connota-
tion to the word. If you heard that
I was coming over your house to
critique you, I'm sure you wouldn't
be overly thrilled. It's a cognitive
fact that humans are much more
affected by negative thoughts than
positive thoughts. I'm a particular
slave to this camp. Sois Michael
Moore, probably.
So is language in general. Nearly
every language in the world has
more negative words than posi-
tive words in it. And our language

determines, to a large extent, our
thoughts. When I go out critiquing,
with my cynical taint and limited
linguistic toolbox, it's often easier
to go for the knees and vomit all my
frustrations with an album into the
500-to-650 word doggy-bagI'm
given.
And in the case of Embryonic,
a highly flawed but endlessly fas-
cinating nut-cluster of a double-
album, I will admit that I nitpicked
at it. Over the course of 70 minutes,
there's a lot of room for sloppiness.
There's also a lot of room for bril-
liance that I had more trouble con-
verting into words.
So I guess this is sort of an apol-
ogy letter. An anonymous reader
commented on my review of Embry-
onic, suggesting that it definitely
deserves four stars. And itprobably
does. It was just such an easy album
to pick apart and chastise. But I'm a
little disturbed by the fact that my
bold attempts at critical objectivity
have led me to bash Embryonic, a
gleefully wild album that not only
pushes but steamrolls the envelope
(and succeeds more often than
not), while praising safer but ulti-
mately less gut-busting albums like
Hospice. So if my ho-hum review
somehow swayed you to bypass the
album, I apologize and urgently ask
you to reconsider.
Recently, one of my friends
lectured me on the difference
between modal jazz and chord-
based jazz. And it gave me an
appreciation for just how much I
don't know, musically. I'm a drum-
mer. I know about rhythm. When
it comes to melody and harmony,
I have no field experience - just a
gut. I understand overall structure
and chord progression. But, like
most of us, I don't have a trusty
decoder for what, objectively,
makes a great album. But I know
when something kicks me in the
ass. And Embryonic kicks me in the
ass. So if you haven't listened to it
yet, please do. I'll leave the rest to
subjectivity.
Bayer wants you to critique his
performance, if you catch his drift.
E-mail him at jrbayer@umich.edu.

At least it's not Detroit.

Uneven Stevens

Hipster hero Sufjan Stevens
gets muddled with the music of
the big city on his latest album
By KRISTYN ACHO
Daily Arts Writer
It's no surprise that in the hype-driven hipster
world fans have fallen for the seemingly unique
and whimsical stylings of Sufjan
Stevens. While the singer-song-
writer's ethereal stage presence
- Sufjan dons bedazzled wings SAan
at many of his shows - and wide-
ranging use of instruments both Sv
vie for innovation, his showman- The BQE
ship falls under the weight of its Asthmatic Kitty
own pretenses. Although raving
fans are boldly calling Sufjan
Stevens our generation's sole musical genius, the
musician may be more aptly described as one of its
most overrated composers.
This doesn't mean that Sufjan Stevens should
be written off as a mediocre musician. One of his
most noteworthy albums, Greetings from Michi-
gan, is a meticulously crafted homage to his home
state, and his latest record The BQE is a captivat-
ing orchestrated suite. Just as Sufjan describes
the doomed plight of Detroit in Michigan, his
new venture delves into the hardships of New
York's boroughs, specifically due to the poorly
constructed Brooklyn-Queens expressway. Here
Sufjan's true talent shines through: his ability
to compose simultaneously heart-wrenching yet
uplifting ballads that portray the adversity of the
cities dear to him.
The album, which was recorded at the Brook-
lyn Academy of Music in 2007, comes with a long
list of extras including a DVD of the performance,
a 40-page comic book, photographs of urban
chaos and a "stereoscopic 3-D Viewmaster* reel."
Although Sufjan is known for being ambitious (hell,

the guy planned to write an album for each of the 50
states), all the extra fluff seems a bit excessive.
But all distractions tossed aside, The BQE is
basically a 40-minute instrumental symphony,
full of twists and turns as the sounds of the bus-
tling city meld with dreamy xylophones and brass
instruments. The BQE uses every instrument and
electronic tinkering imaginable. The juxtaposition
of jingle bells and synthesizers with flighty flutes
and blaring trumpets is supposed to convey the
fast-paced movement of city life, but it comes off as
a jumbled, wonky mess.
The album begins with what feels like an over-
ture of a 1950s Disney movie - the boasting of
trumpets and whirlwind of wood-percussion
gracefully flow into a romantic and sleepy melo-
dy that initially captivates listeners but falls flat
due to the synthetic retro vibe that encompasses
the beginning tracks. Not until the middle of the
record does the album use any sort of composition-
al variety. But when it finally picks up, it catches
listeners off guard. In "Interlude I," Sufjan suc-
cessfully creates a climatic shift within the album,
disturbing the peace and leading the listener on
with fantastical ballads.
In accompaniment to the album, the DVD
depicts the urban chaos within New York's bor-
oughs, contrasting the vibrant architectures of
Brooklyn and Queens with images of congested
highway traffic. The footage, which uses slow-
motion and still-screens, feels disconnected from
the composer's orchestra, despite the fact that Suf-
jan intended for a cohesive multimedia experience.
While the music has a lively, frenzied quality, the
film proves to be a stagnant and drawn-out effort,
leaving the album feeling muddled by the extrane-
ous side-project.
It seems rather unnecessary for Sufjan Stevens
to create a sort of novelty album while fans await
the long-overdue release of a follow-up to Illinois.
Some may call it procrastination, but despite its
flaws in continuity and awkward juxtaposition of
sounds, the utter enormity of The BQE experience
should be commended.


HPV Fact:
Your boyfriend
scren ed fo r
H PV-the viru,
that causes
genital warts.

JOIN DAILY
TV STAFF.
SMALL
SCREENS,
BIG HEART.

For an application, e-mail
battlebots@umich.edu.
7Z
1 2
ZETA 5 1 2
TAU ALPHA 4 7 2
210 9 2 6 v
4 O 55
1 3
6 2 3 8
68 4 21
Aiui Arbor Autbw'lde Ctd'17fr

There's sc
Visit




6A- Monday, October 26, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAIL CENTRAL Cam-
pus near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRALCampus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.

1993 PONTIAC GRAND Am Se
Sporty, dependable ride $1495
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1994 FORD EXPLORER 4 door
4x4, rans great $1995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.comn
1997 DODGE INTREPID
Dependable transportation $1295
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 CHEVY MALIBU
runs great, Very clean $3795
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
Flex fuel engine, Sharp looking $1995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
060
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! 441 HAMILTON ! 6 bdrm, study &
3 bathrooms! Sept '10 12 mo. lease.
$3400/mo. includes ldry., furn.,
A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
" BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
wsw,.nancylat.com
Studio & 1
nrm, Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qu05&S r. tklamCam n.
734-663-1530
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010 a
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
$1500/mo. Avail. on Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Free offstreet prkg, Indry, water
incl. 734.223.7777.
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.

TOUR TODAY!
1-4 bedroom apts.
starting at $699
FREE satellite TV
FREE high speed Internet
All utilities included
Fully Furnished
In-Unit Washer/Dryer
Ask how you can receive
$150 gift card and
FREE LUNCH!
O CURT YARDS *
S T U D E .N T A PAR TM EN T S
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could be yours - secure your
apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
1021 & 1101 Church St.
5 & 6 bdrm houses
Avail. May 2010
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM fotball fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and tp.
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Incladed. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
ANN ARBOR
Student Housing Fair
Mon, Nov. 2nd Alum Ctr
1-4PM Win $100 GC at
www.midigs.com
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Washer and dryer.
$1800 a mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.


SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit mlchigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map! .
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Callfor details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com

Reserve your fully-
furnished room, studio,
1,2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 2010/2011.
Save your Style!
Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 Hr. Lobby Attendant
Secure-Entry Building
Central U-M Campus
FREE Food & More!
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furs, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.

Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immediate Occupancy Available
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
' o Pzza oUSe
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

help wanted
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PAID DISCUSSION $75 Male sports
fans ages 18-22. Must be a full-time U
of M Student, call 734-332-1049.
LOOKING FOR STUDENT todinsist
in the preparatian of a seminar dealing
with Engineering & Business ethics.
Must have exp. with Microsoft Office
& Power Point & good comm. skills.
10 hrs/wk, payment negotiable. Email:
jglafndi@comcast.net
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
S095 .
FACULTY COUPLE NEEDS a stu-
dent to pick up 13-year-old 8th grade
girl at Tappan Middle School at 3pm
daily and help with homework as
needed until 5:00 pm at our home.
Must be exp., fun, savvy with teens.
$12/hour. Contact tareid@umich.edu.
t ickets & tavel
100-
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Informarion.Resergations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststMvel.com

0'

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please! Forest Edge Apartments
Campus Management, Inc. invites you 1315 Hill St.
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments vy close to -.
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and sotne in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $649. 2 bedroom at $714. Call Now Leasing for
Now! 734-663-8463.M
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses. May 2010!
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or 3 and 4 bedrooms available!
email louisbreskmang/yahoo.comn
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/ . ri,
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256. IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
P I ' Rea wty 734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdnn.
apt. at IllI S. State, Near U-M bus
Now Leasing stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg.. dry,
for May 2010: 100-165{, No smkgdo pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
Large 2 Bedroom Apts! ehtseng~acomcast.net
Contact Post Realty for LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
showing or more information: available immediately, 2 blocks east of
734-761-8220 or the business school. Heat, water and
info@postrealtyproperties.com parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi- NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co. Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118 or
734-368-0256. visit www.noplacelikejones.com
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free ON ARBORETUM NEAR midtown.
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $1550. 734- Historic Frank Lloyd Wright-type, hse:
717-6913. skyharrisllc@coatcast.net 4 bdrms, 2.5 baths 34-662-7924.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/Indry, by Law School, $2250. 734- 5&6BDRM HOUSESI
717-6913. skyharrisllc illcomcast.net I A Y 210
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-I
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl. C PROPERTIES
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991. 734-663-5609
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm. 341 E. Jefferson-8
bdrm. 734-564-2125 LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
www.keysmanagement.net ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2 available for immediate occupancy
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal- across the street from U of M hospital.
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished, Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825. ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laindry. Carport Parking
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath. Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd pointment, pictures available at
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759. www.archrealtyco.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdnn.
FALpL 2010. 5- bdrm. huses. Walk Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to Water, & Electric Included. Parking
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons. available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C. into 616 Church Street. More info at
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506. www.archrealtyco.com

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme clgobluehouses.com. Taking
orders now for Penn State weekend.
services
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
The MihiganII'~i III



Los Angeles Times Da
Edited by Rich Norris an
ACROSS DOWN
1 Highway hauler 1 Grumpy mood
5 Cut off 2 Morays, e.g.
10 "_ Silver, 3 Lawn burrower
away!" 4 Arouse, as e
14 Gas in a sign passion
15 Utah city 5 Watch covertly
16 Sign of the future I The E in Q.E.D.
17 Hymn whosetitle 7 Solemn promise
follows the line 8 Sister ofaZsaZsa
"When I die, 9 Fittfor a king
Hallelujah, by 10 Biblical cryofl
and by" adoration
19 Fill to excess 11 Popular Apple
20 "Cats" poet 12 Himalayan giant
21 Gum arabictree 13 Fit to be drafted
23 Adviser Landers 18 Queue -
24 Traffic cone 22 Political
29 Knight's lady takeovers A
2 g Slimy ds 24 Kellogg'stoaster E
29 Relative known pastry
for quitting? 25 "Alas, poor 1":
33 Run the country Hamlet
34 Scout's motto 26 Persian Gulfl -
36 Kimono sash emirate
37 Airace's 27 Wonderland girl
missins 28 Rodent keptuas a
38 Climbing vine house tts
39 How duelists 30 Baby beds
begin 31 Leejeans
41 Baseball stats alternative -
42 "Old MacDonald" 32 Ice cream brand
refrain 33 Judge's attire
43 Rile up 34 Scarer's shout x
44 Ado 1 2 4 s
45 Resided
47 Dancefrom 4 1e
Ireland
48 __Tar Pits 17 1i
5! Daybreak
55 French franc 2
successor 28
56 With 'The,"
Schwarzenegger as 2
fim released
10/26/1984, and a3
a hint to the
puzzle theme 96 Sr
found in the first
words of 17-3d- ' a
and 39-Acrous 72
59 Ford Explorer
Sport..-. as
60 Storage room
61 Star Trek: 4 49°
T.NG." 5
counselor
Deannta a
62 Armored vehicle
63 Snappish 62 6
64 Lip-: mouth the
words BnyJerometGunderson

ily Crossword Puzzle
d Joyce Nichols Lewis
35 Scared 47 Like ripe peaches
response 48 Riga native
37 Uncle Tom's 49 Distinctive
creator emanation
40 Duettist with 50 Muffin ingredient
Sheryl Crow in 51 Infatuated,
the song old-style
"Picture" 52 'This is my best
41 Toon babiesof effort"
'90s-'00s TV 53 Any minute now
4 Sawyersfiend 54 Guitrist Clapton
46 Frequent, an a 57 Somma summer
diner 58 Privileges: Abbr.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

For Tuesday, Oct. 27, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
During the next few weeks, your abil-
ity to research and seek out answers will
be amazing! You'll have the mind of a
sleuth. No secrets can hide from you!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
The month ahead is a wonderful time
to explain things to partners and close
friends. Mercury will be opposite your
sign, making you want to talk to others!
You're hungry for intellectual stimula-
tion!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
The next few weeks are fabulous for
all kinds of mental work. You'll be atten-
tive to details and concerned about the
best technique available to do things.
(You're good wish your hands!)
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Seek out opportunities to play and
enjoy mental pleasure during the next
several weeks. Games, puzzles and fun
mental activities will intrigue you. You
feel like a prankster!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Family discussions are important in
the next month. Exchanges with parents
could be important. This is a good time
for minor repairs at home.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Expect to meet new people in the next
month. Group discussions will be excit-
ing. The tempo of your days will be fast.
Enjoy yourself and go with the flow!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You will be more concerned with
money, cash flow, business and com-
merce during the next five weeks. You
will do a lot of planning regarding these


matters.
SCORPIO
(Oct 23 toNov. 21)
You'll have a strong urge to travel in
the next few weeks. Short trips will
really appeal. You're curious about
things, and eager to meet new people.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You might discover secrets about oth-
ers in the months ahead. Your research
skills are sharp, and your curiosity is
strong. You won't miss a trick.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Group discussions and exchanges with
friends will be meaningful and exciting
during the next five weeks. You want to
enlighten others about something!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Discussions with bosses, parents,
teachers and VIPs will be important dur-
ing the next month. This is also a good
time to get extra training that can boost
your career.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You'll love any kind of study or learn-
ing in the next month, because your
mind is restless and you're eager for
something new! Travel to foreign places
also will appeal.
YOU BORN TODAY You're ener-
getic! People see you as a moving force
of nature. You're dynamic, impulsive
and hardworking. You can be extreme in
your moods and actions, which in turn,
often shock others. You're highly inde-
pendent, but you want to be popular.
This year you have an important choice
to make; in part, this is to prepare for
next year, when you will build or con-
struct something.
Birthdate of: Ruby Dee, actress; Fran
Lebowitz, author/humorist; Kristi
Richards, freestyle skier.

6
0
I
6

C2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

1-1-

14 1

18 DIFFERENT
LOCATIONS!l
C#IOOSE FROM EFIIEN-
CiES, 1,2,AND 3 BMD
ROOMS, 81-LEVELS AND
TRI-LEVELS TOO'
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one bur

s day prior to publication

Rates: $430 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulkcontracts are available-contact our stafffor details
" Students may receive a 20% discountwhen ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
' All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our AccountExecutives


(c)20wTribune Media Services, Inc.

i


a The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 26, 2009 - 7A

v

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 26, 2009 - 7A


A compilation with teeth

By SASHA RESENDE
DailyArts Writer
The fact that a love story about
an abstinent teenager and a sexy
vampire is a hit
with both teen-
age girls and
their middle- Various
aged mothers is
hardly notewor- Arists
thy. The more The Twilight
fascinating Saga:
development is New Moan
thatsuch ataleis Soundtrack
being framed by Soptrac
some of today's ChopShop/Atlantic
most prolific
independent and alternative con-
temporary musicians. The much
talked-about "Twilight" saga,
whose second film installment
"New Moon" will be released in
November, is pegged to an equally
talked-about soundtrack that was
released four days ahead of sched-
ule because of popular demand.
"Twilight" author Stephenie
Meyer, the woman to blame for
the current cultural obsession
with all things vampiric, recently
revealed her favorite albums of
2009, a list dotted with indie-
pop gems by groups like Ani-
mal Collective and Grizzly Bear.
The soundtrack to "New Moon"
traces a similar vein, boasting
a homogenous blend of gloomy
soundscapes by some big name
artists like The Killers, Muse and,
of course, Grizzly Bear. By mov-
ing away from the pop-punk and
teen-goth influences heard on the
series's preceding film, the "New
Moon" official soundtrack moves
into music-snob territory and will
likely introduce a new genera-
tion of pseudo-literary pop-punk
enthusiasts to the world of pre-
tentious indie rock.
Every song on the album is an
original piece created exclusive-
ly for the "Twilight" franchise,
helping to create a more uniform
atmosphere than if the tracks
had been recorded independent-
ly. While a few of the selections
sound somewhat out of place,
the combined effect is a feeling
of underdeveloped gloom - ulti-
mately, the emotions of unrequit-

ed teenage love. high-profile collaborations is a dual
Opening track and official sin- hymn titled "Roslyn"
gle "Meet Me On The Equi- featuring sing-
nox" is arousing er St. Vincent
jam by and folk king
kings Bon Iver,
of teen' culminating
heart- inalow-key
break duet high-
Death lighted by
Cab For simple
Cutie. The strum-
songdoesn't ming.
stray far Ann
from the Arbor
band's tradi-native
tional format Anya
of combin-c -ic
ing accessible e OOC&o Mari-
rhythms with na's acoustic ballad
emotion-packed "Satellite Heart" is equally impres-
lyrics, and it wouldn't sive, contrasting the singer's quiet
seem out of place on your stan- vocals with uncomplicated strings
dard Death Cab album. Thank- and creating a straightforward but
fully, the band's primary lyrical nonetheless alluringsong.
territory has always resided close Despite these impressive cuts,
to matters of the heart, so the' the album as a whole is not a start-
band is able to casually reference to-finish success. The remix ver-
the film's plot with vague lyrics sion of Muse's "I Belong To You"
like "Let me give my love to you sounds wholly out of place; it has
/ Let me take your hand / and as more in common with pseudo-goth
we walk in the dimming light / Oh rockers My Chemical Romance
darling understand." than the rest of the record's more
downcast alternative picks.
Sea Wolf's "The Violent Hour,"
'Tw ilight' gets an unusually uplifting anthem,
sounds similarly incongruous and
relevant, disrupts the flow of the album.
While it's entirely understandable
that the film's producers required
One of the more publicized a variety of sounds to encapsu-
tracks on the soundtrack is an late the entire realm of human (or
offering by Thom Yorke,the singer in this case, vampiric) emotion,
and primary songwriter of Radio- many of their picks are a down-
head, a band that has undoubted- grade from the record's more
ly influenced the majority of the succinct contributions and they
other bands heard on this album. create a bit of an unbalance.
Unsurprisingly, Yorke's contri- When "Twilight" groupies final-
bution "Hearing Damage" - a ly see the series's much-anticipated
dark, electro-synth soundwave second film feature next month,
dominated by a consistent drum they will be greeted with a movie
machine-generated beat - is the touched by every hue of the somber
best song on the soundtrack. indie-rock spectrum. Whether this
Grizzly Bear's contribution, track list does anything to change
which features vocals by Beach the tide of tween musical sensibili-
House's Victoria Legrand, is ties remains to be seen. In the inter-
another triumph. Legrand's im, auditory aficionados should be
haunting voice is the star of the pleased that what will likely be one
song, at times overtaking the of the highest grossing movies of
band's instrumentation. 2009 also features one of the year's
One of the soundtrack's more more engaging soundtracks.

Voyeurism never looked so fun.

Love in

'Paris' takes a
focused look at the
city and its people
By TIMOTHY RABB
DailyArts Writer
In Paris, a city rich in culture and
romance, Pierre (Romain Duris,
"Exils") struggles
with the pos-
sibility of death
and expectantly
awaits a replace-
ment for his ail- At the
ing heart. Each Michigan
night he gazes IFC
wistfully at the
apartment across
the street, yearning for the affec-
tions of the beautiful woman in the
window. The woman entertains the
romantic advances of two men, one
ofwhomisher professor andthestar
of a lucrative historical documen-
tary. Pierre's sister Elise (Juliette
Binoche, "Dan in Real Life") tends
to her brother's ailments while also
striking up a sexual relationship
with a local fruit vendor after his
friend (and co-worker) is killed in a
tragic accident.
All of these people and their
collective experiences form the

emotional infras
a city that lives
the same vein as
The presenta
plagued with a f
lems, the most
its ineptness in
acters equallywi
time frame. Exa
of fewer charact
those of Pierre,l
history professt
easily solved this
ing up valuable s
The storylin
struggles of ani
from Cameroon
upon him so bri
existence in the
quential. Juxtaj
exploration wit
out scenes de
moments in the
ie's more promir
whole composit
feels off-balance
It would be
to ignore the be
of the city of Pa
lush cinemato
transitions ands
movie exudes.'
artistry, while it
is superseded b3
cal point made i
ly, the marked di

thecityi^
tructure of Paris, the objective and the subjective
and breathes in realities of human beings. For
its inhabitants. example, though Pierre's suffer-
tion of "Paris" is ing is the most profound experi-
ew notable prob- ence in his own recent life, his T
prominent being trials are viewed as routine and
developing char- insubstantial through his peers'
ithin its two-hour lens of objectivity.
imining the lives Thischaracteristicofthehuman
ers - specifically condition is the reason for our
his sister and the selfishness, and its only solution
or - could have is a deeper connection with those
s problem by free- other than ourselves. And even I
creen time. those who have labeled "Paris" as
e explores the a light-hearted_ travelogue can't
illegal immigrant deny that it's downright gorgeous
, but it touches (though they have most certainly
efly that his very underestimated its potential).
plot is inconse- The basic yet beautiful essence
posing this brief of"Paris" is its analysis of individ-
h long, drawn- ual experience from the perspec-
lineating trivial tives of both those experiencing -
lives of the mov- and those watching. After all, the
nent subjects, the catharsis felt in the tragedy of
:ion of the film loss or the joy of victory is rarely
and out of focus. viewed in the same light by those
foolish, however, watching the competition as it is
'autiful depiction by the competitors.
ris offered by the "Paris" sets out to illustrate our
graphy, smooth misconceived notions about our
skillful acting the fellow man, and it proves its point
This triumph in effectively. If only it had bothered
npressive in scale, to explore its most relevant charac-
y the philosophi- ters further, we may have felt their
n the film: name- joys and sorrows with the same
fference between breadth of emotion as they did.

Catching up with the'90s


By SHARON JACOBS
Daily Arts Writer
If the '90s were asked to imag-
ine autumn 2009 in the form of a
hip-hop album,
the result would
undoubtedly be
Anti-Pop Con- Anj-ft.
sortium's Fluo-
rescent Black. Consortium
This time-warp Fluorescent
quality is most Black
evident in the Big Dada
video for the
group's single "Volcano." Grainy
and simple in style, it finds the
foursome wearing huge shades
and rapping' with a spandex-clad
dancer, set against a PowerPoint-
style gradient background. The
song itself has an in-your-face
quality as the Consortium's blunt
lyrics jump out from between
bursts of synthesized sound. As on
all of Fluorescent Black, the music
* behind the rapping in "Volcano" is
minimalist and robotic, recalling
the futuristic ethos we saw back in
the time of the Y2K scare.
Anti-Pop Consortium's flair for
the experimental mostly mani-
fests itself in the group's tenden-
cy toward "glitch," a subgenre
of electronica that strips it to its
bare essentials - unidentifiable
computer sounds. This concept is
exemplified in "New Jack Exter-
minator," where electronic beeps
provide just enough structure
for the Consortium's typically
evocative and forceful lines. Some
songs use electric guitar, "Born
Electric" starts with a piano solo
straight out of an '80s power bal-
lad and "Timpani" is anchored by
WANNA BE A
HIP REPORTER?
JOIN DAILY
FINE ARTS.

its titular instrument. But ulti-
mately, Fluorescent Black is a cel-
ebration of technology and the
crazy noises it makes.
Despite requiring more listens
than the average radio- or mall-
friendly hit, Consortium's music
is not quite "anti-pop." It's like-
able and sometimes even catchy,
try as it might to be otherwise
(and Consortium certainly does
try to sidestep popularity - just
listen to the off-the-wall metal

guitar
The gr
es and
Fluores
exceed
Consor
from t
to wh
often f
at hear
Ra
list fol
Miami
In
tium c
the sas
as LM
bare-b'
one car
they're
predec
fun. Bi
more ii

riff that opens the album). tual than its "hipster rap" bud-
oup reigns in the odd nois- dies, especially when it comes to
experimental tangents on lyrics.
cent Black, and no song The stream-of-consciousness
s five minutes. Anti-Pop lyrics are the focal point of Anti-
tium manages to stay away Pop Consortium's music. The
he cringe-inducing excess foursome met at a poetry slam,
ich experimental groups and it shows in their clear under-
all prey; one wouldn't balk standing of the sheer power of
ring "Volcano" on a play- phonetics. Lines often jump
between vague references that
verge on totally incomprehensible
("Came through the door / A lega-
p turns dark, cy of Moors / Hidden symbolisms
and blindfolded in the cores"), but the
nusical and mere percussion in the words cap-
tivates and grips. Anti-Pop Con-
original. sortium uses the vocal track as
its main instrument rather than a
final flourish - something all rap
would be wise to do.
lowing LMFAO's "I'm In Surprisingly, Anti-Pop Consor-
Trick." tium has more in common with
fact, Anti-Pop Consor- post-rock outfits than with other
ould be said to fall under rap groups. Consortium abstains
me "hipster rap" umbrella from overproduction in favor
FAO. Both groups have a of minimalist vamping, and the
ones electrified style, and stripped-down result is darker
n never be certain whether and somehow more musical than
honoring their old-school that of their contemporaries.
essors or just poking ironic Anti-Pop Consortium goes for a
ut Anti-Pop Consortium is futuristic vibe - maybe it's time
ntense and more intellec- for the present to take note.

1

For an application, e-mail
battlebots@umich.edu.


8A - Monday, October 26, 2009

"
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Monday, October 26, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

FIRE
From Page 1A
Despite these worries, it was
quite some time before the build-
ing was completely evacuated.
Many residents remained inside
the building and watched the
flames from their rooms before
they were forced to leave.
"A lot of people were leaving
because of the smoke," Engineer-
ing sophomore Billy Mayer said.
"But if people didn't leave because
of the smoke, they' didn't leave
because of the fire alarm."
Mayer, who lives on the elev-
enth floor of University Towers,
did not evacuate until almost mid-
night, when police officers arrived
and told him he had to leave the
building.
LSA sophomore Gabe VanLoo-
zen said he remained in his apart-
ment until the fire alarm went
off, almost an hour after he first
smelled smoke.
"We had a great view from
my apartment, it was pretty cool

The old Pinball Pete's building was ravaged by a fire late Saturday night. This photo, taken Sunday, shows the darate.


looking," VanLoozen said. "The
alarm went off and it got really
noisy so we decided we should get
out, but we were watching it for
about an hour before the alarm
went off."
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said approximately
600 students from University
Towers were temporarily dis-
placed because of the fire. She said
students were allowed back into
the building around 2 a.m.
But many students reported
that they weren't notified when
the building was reopened.
"I had a friend check the door.
close to 1:00 a.m. but it was still
closed," VanLoozen said. "I
checked it myself around 1:30 a.m.
and it was open so I went back
in."
According to VanLoozen,
the only people in the building
after the fire besides the return-
ing residents were inspectors
making sure the air quality was
safe.
After several attempts to speak
with the management of Universi-
ty Towers yesterday, the Daily was
told the manager was not working
and was unreachable.
Cunningham said the extent
of the damage was limited to six
apartments in the building.
Undergraduate Program Coor-
dinator Cheryl Erdmann sent an
e-mail to Communications Studies
majors Sunday night, informing
them of damage to the Commu-
nications Studies offices located
in the same building as University
Towers.
"Ourdoffices have sustained
minor damage from smoke and
water and a broken front glass
door pane," Erdmann wrote in the
e-mail. "We do not have computer
or telephone access in the depart-
ment atthis time."
"We are attempting to resolve
these issues as quickly as pos-
sible," she added.
Dziubinski told the Daily
that investigation had begun
into the cause of the fire as of
2 a.m. Sunday morning. But he
said he was unable to comment
on the investigation because it
is ongoing.
However, Battalion Chief Rob-
ert Voteo said yesterday that the
owner of Pinball Pete's mentioned
an issue of trespassing.
"The building owner said that
it has been a continuous problem

since it's been vacant," Voteo said.
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown told
the Daily around 2 a.m. Sunday
morning that she was not aware
of anyone receivingmedical atten-
tion.
Within minutes of the first
signs of smoke emitting from
the house, students began to
pack into the street to watch the
flames.
Even though police officers had
attempted to blockade the side-
walk on both the Church Street
and South Forest Avenue sides,
the crowds outside remained and
onlookers were able to make their
ways to the scene through a pas-
sageway, called the South Uni-
versity Galleria Shopping Center,
between buildings across the
street.
While most University students
never got the chance to frequent
the former location of Pinball
Pete's, residents who lived in Ann
Arbor during the arcade's prime
were visibly upset at the scene of
the fire.
Marni Glovinsky, lifetime Ann
Arbor resident, watched the infer-
no from across the street, tears
streaming down her face.
Glovinsky said she spent nearly
everyday when she was 14 years
old at Pinball Pete's.
"It's like watching your whole
childhood burn down," she said.
While the fire burned on
the west side of South Univer-
sity Avenue, the east side of the
street remained a bustling night
scene.
Both of the bars on the block
stayedopen throughout the entire
sequence of events and patrons
lined up outside as if it was any
other fall Saturday night.
Natalie Putman, a waitress and
bartender at The Brown Jug, said
the bar was not affected by the
commotion outside.
"It wasn't really an issue," she
said. "A lot of people were just
running up to the front (of the res-
taurant) to watch."
Momo Tea, located directly
next door to the burning build-
ing, was completely empty in the
midst of the fire, but the lights
remained on and the "open" sign
illuminated.
Calls to Momo Tea throughout
Sunday afternoon were unan-
swered and the store was locked
and dark early Sunday evening.

I

Do you hae what it takes to

El

GLOBAL OPERATIONS
CONFERENCE
C O FE NCE
2NOV

,.ll' IA-l G GI' ('l&LfIGi)
Speakers
Hau L. Lee - lDirector, Stanlord Gkbal
Supply Chain Managnemet Forum
Reuben Slone - Executive Vice
President of Supply Chain, Ofice Max
John Kelly - President of Xerox Global
Services, North Anerica
Panels
Energy Issues and Ramifications
Automotive Industry Reform
Global Supply Chain
Register at www.tauber.umich.edu/goc
UNI
TAUBER INSTITUTE 100
BUSINESS s ENGIN EERING LEADE RSH I P A

:1

vtERiYOF MICHIGAN
D Nasbor, aoi higal

C 1'C'I's
CISCO"


HEAR THE STORY
BEHIND THE STORIES
Listen to Michigan Daily Radio on
WCBN-FM-Ann Arbor 88.3 FM.
Tuesdays and Thursdays
at 6:00 p.m.

rff(ffr
YOST:
331M

YOST ARENA
& BTB Burrito
Present

Scar jshate
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29TH
8:00 - 9:50 PM
**Bring this ad for a FREE skate rental**

15% Discount
for patients &
caregivers!
15% off your $75 or
more purchase or
10% off a purchase
less than $75!

FREE Parking in front.
GRO BLUE
Indoor Gardening Supplies
207 W. Liberty St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
(734) 913-2750
www.gro-blue.com


;


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 26, 2009 --9A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 26, 2009 - 9A

DPS chief: Campus
safety hurt by gun bill

r

From Page 1A
firearms policies across the state.
For example, Bolger said, if a
concealed pistol license holder
passed through a college campus
without the intention of getting
out of his car, he could be stopped
by a police officer for violating the
weapons-free ordinance on cam-
pus under the current law.
"Now, that law-abiding citizen
(would have) no idea of this," Bolg-
er said. "So this is the type of situa-
tion we're looking to address."
Bolger said because the bill does
not change the rules for weapons-
free areas like residence halls and
classrooms on campus, he doesn't
believe the law would increase
guns or violence on college cam-
puses.
"I would argue all of this brings
college campuses in compliance
with the rest of the state," he said.
"I think people want to envision
somehow this law would mean
you'd have guns in classrooms or
dormitories, or all over in campus.
I really argue that it's not going to
do that."
But Brown said the bill poses
several safety issues for college
campuses, pointing out that alco-
hol consumption paired with more
guns could pose serious risks.
"I think essentially guns on col-
lege campuses don't mix," Brown
said. "It's an educational environ-
ment and ...young people shouldn't
have to worry about what's hap-
pening around them."
While the bill would not change
the pistol-free zones like class-
rooms, Brown said the definition of
a classroom is an ambiguous one,
since instructors often hold classes
outside in the Arboretum or on the
Diag.
"So if you extended the idea that
you don't want guns in a classroom,
then a piece of that ought to extend
much broader on a college campus
setting," Brown said.

"Then you can even look at it
as a workplace issue and being in
the workplace," Brown continued.
"Obviously you want to make it
safe and secure and that wouldn't
be consistent with allowing guns
on campus."
Brown saidshe doesn't think the
bill is necessary because there have
been so few firearms violations
over the past few years.
"And we certainly haven't had
a lot of controversy or problems in
the years we've had the weapons-
free campus," she said. "It hasn't
seemed to be particularly difficult
to understand. In several years it's
been less than half a dozen viola-
tions with that law."
With this bill, the potential for
more violent situations could arise,
Brown said.
"If you don't allow guns, then
there's less likelihood that some-
thing could escalate from an argu-
ment into something much more
violent," Brown said. "The bottom
line: we believe guns should be
used only by those who are fully
trained in their use -- law enforce-
ment officials - especially on a col-
lege campus."
DPS Executive Director Ken
Magee testified last week that the
bill would create a more dangerous
campus environment in front of the
Committee on Tourism, Outdoor
Recreation and Natural Resources,
which is considering the legisla-
tion, accordingto Brown.
Unlike DPS, Michigan's State
Police have a neutral official stance
on the bill, according to First Lt.
Matt Bolger, legislative liaison for
the Michigan State Police.
Matt Bolger said the purpose
behind the bill is to make firearms
laws consistent across all areas of
the state by treating universities as
equivalent to cities, towns and all
other local governmental units.
"It's not so much about allowing
guns on campuses, as it (is) treat-
ing campuses like any other units

of government in the state," Matt
Bolger said.
He said he didn't think there
would be increased risk of violence
as a result of the bill's passage, and
that it would serve to make firearm
laws uniform across the state.
"We had a few very upset phone
calls from individuals that realized
that some universities in Michi-
gan have ordinances making it a
misdemeanor to do something the
state says you can legally do," Matt
Bolger said. "It just caught them in
consternation."
The bill now awaits a vote by the
committee, which James Bolger
said is very likely to pass the bill.
If passed by the committee, the
bill would move to the full House,
where James Bolger said he thinks
it again has a good chance of pass-
ing.
In interviews, University stu-
dents had mixed reactions to the
bill.
Some students, like LSA and
Education junior Sierra Cain,
think eliminating the University's
gun-free ordinance would create
a more dangerous environment on
campus.
"I wouldn't feel safe walking
around campus," Cain said. "Across
campus, now, I feel like I can walk
around by myself most of the time
except for late at night. But know-
ing that people could be concealing
firearms by law, be permitted to
do that, I wouldn't feel comfort-
able at all. Ann Arbor's a really safe
town and why would you endanger
that?"
But other students like LSA
sophomore Amanda Laurent said
as long as the bill doesn't change
the pistol-free zones like class-
rooms and residence halls, it would
be acceptable.
"I think that's perfectly fine,"
Laurent said. "I mean, it's part of
our rights as citizens. As long as it's
not allowed in the classrooms ... I
think it's perfectly fine."

Makesre studex
falinto the right
Fall Realty
The AnnArbor Ordinance doesn't stop studentsfrom
thinking abouthousing early, so why should you? Advertise
leases for now, May, and Fall asi! Reach over 40,000
students and other University members.
Presentedby The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22""
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.com

uhetiqanaitu P R E S E N TS

SICK OF Visit michilgandally.com/classifieds to see
THE DORMS? all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
CAN'T FIND A Also be sure to check out the Classified
PLACE TO LIVE? Pages for other great properties.

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com to get started.

Halloween Treats!
Treat yourself to newer, lower prices
on select Apple products, while suppies last.

Price drops on select MacBook Pros and all previous
generation iPods October 20 - October 30.
MacBook Pro 13"w/ 3yr AppleCare
(two roodes to choose from)
$1,182 and $1,400
MacBook Pro 15", 2.53 processor w/ 3yr AppleCare
$1,688
MacBook Pro 15", 2.8 processor w/4yr AppleCare
$2,300
iPod touch 8GB (2nd generati)or
$139
iPod touch 32GB (2nd generatoon)
$239
iPod nano 16GB (4th generationr many colors to chose from)
$124
Two UM Computer Showcase Locations to serve you:
Michigan Union and Pierpont Commons
Store Hours: 9-6, M-F at both locations.

http://showcase.itcs.umich.edu
computer.showcase@umich.edu



10A -Monday, October 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

iDA -Monday, October 26, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

SWINE FLU
From Page 1A
department and the University, fac-
ing the current vaccine shortage,
have redefined their priority groups
to determine which individuals get
first access to the vaccine.
The health department's priority
groups include health care person-
nel, pregnant women, caregivers of
children younger than six months,
children six months through four
years and children ages five through
18 with underlying medical condi-
tions - a group which previously
extended to people up to age 24.
The department also removed the
priority group of 25 to 64 year olds
withunderlyinghealth conditions.
Ernstsaid UHS will apply similar
guidelines when it begins to distrib-
ute its supply, adding that UHS has
already vaccinated its own staff and
emergency personnel.
While the University Hospi-
tal and Health System, Medical
School and School of Nursing are
responsible for vaccinating their
own employees, UHS is in charge of
issuing the vaccine to other depart-
ments on campus.
Last Friday, UHS vaccinated
Dental School faculty and staff.
Ernst said UHS is currently work-

ing with the Department of Public
Safety and University Housing secu-
rity to make sure campus officers are
vaccinated in addition to laboratory
staffworkingwiththe vaccine inthe
School of Public Health.
After those people are vaccinat-
ed, Ernst said UHS will then open.
up the vaccine to individuals with
underlying health conditions -
including those with diabetes, heart
and lung disease and people with
weak immune systems from medi-
cal conditions.
Although plans are in place, Ernst
said UHS does not foresee having to
set up mass vaccination clinics in
the near future.
"Those plans are on hold until we
are able to secure sufficient quan-
tities of the vaccine to actually be
able to do that," he said. "But we
will be distributing the vaccine on
an appointment basis at the Health
Service to individuals who have
underlying health conditions."
In an interviewlastmonth, Univer-
sity Provost Teresa Sullivan said Uni-
versity officials have "responded very
well to the current HINT situation"
and are still "watching it closely."
Professors have been asked to be
flexible with sick students and not
require them to get medical excuses
from UHS. Sullivan said she has been
in frequent communication with

deans and faculty about how to han-
dle ill students notcoming to class.
"I don't want students penalized
because they're sick," Sullivan said.
"I don't want students forced to
go to the health center and expose
more people just so they can get a
note. That doesn't seem to be a rea-
sonable thing to do. So far, as far as'
I can tell, the faculty have been on
board with this."
UHS has not been given any
information on when it will receive
more doses. Ernst said it depends on
when the county's health depart-
ment receives shipments.
He added that the department
has been prioritizing children and
groups who are at risk for serious
complications like tonsillitis if they
get the virus.
"I think that's appropriate, but
we also have to be mindful about
the fact that college students are
also susceptible," he said.
Though UHS cannot put its vac-
cination plans into action until it
receives more doses, Ernst said it is
ready once more arrive.
"Once sufficient quantities
become available, we need to really
quickly release the plans that we do
have in place for mass distribution,"
he said. "But it doesn't make sense
to release any times and dates if we
don't have available vaccines."

Ra :Youth shows for M'

From Page1A
killed the drive.
Carlos Brown's fumble at the
Penn State 20-yard line two plays
after Graham blocked a huge punt
killed the momentum.
And the interception on Forci-
er's laststand killed the game, a fit-
ting end to what had been reduced
to a hopeless comedy of errors.
"It's a bad day," Graham said.
"It was just hard. It's just hard
because we prepare so hard and
everybody wanted it and it was
just a bad day."
But in reality, the bad day is
probably what should have been
expected. Four of the Wolverines'
five wins have been against the
second-worst team in the Big Ten,
a poor Division 1-AA team and two
Mid-American Conference teams.
For the most part, the Wolverines
have won the games they should
have won and lost the games they
should have lost - and after last
season's finish, that's acceptable.
I predicted at the beginning of
the year that Michigan would fin-
ish 6-6. That looked pretty stupid
after the Wolverines started 4-0,

but Saturday's result made it seem
a lot more possible. With Illinois,
Purdue, Wisconsin and Ohio State
remaining, Michigan could very
well limp to the finish line, and
that's a depressing prospect. Forci-
er and the Wolverines' play just
one month ago had almost made a
New Year's Day bowl feel like more
than just wishful thinking.
The freshman is still a talented
quarterback, and still seemed
nearly as confident Saturday as he
was after Notre Dame. But Satur-
day showed what we have been
suspecting for a few games now
- his freshman year has finally
started. Excluding Michigan's
first possession, a 70-yard touch-
down drive in which Forcier was
3-of-3, the freshman completed 10
of 27 passes for 106 yards. He was
sacked five times.
"I don't know if one game can
really define you either way, good
or bad," Rodriguez said after the
game. "I think we're a young team
but you know, we've played enough
games to get some experience."
It's been more than one game's
worth of disappointment now,
though this one was the most

important in determining how
this team will finish.
In the team's first four games,
Forcier completed 62 percent of
his passes with two interceptions
and seven touchdowns.
During the team's dismal Octo-
ber, a 1-3 stretch, the freshman has
completed just 48 percent of his
passes, thrown three interceptions
and just two touchdowns.
Forcier maintains he's fine, and
Rodriguez said Saturday's mis-
takes were "correctable," some-
thing that's been said during each
of Michigan's three losses. But
as soon as the young Wolverines
fix their mistakes, others become
even more apparent.
That inexperience is why the
Wolverines were outmatched Sat-
urday in a game that couldn't have
been further from their fairytale-
fast start.
And that's also why Saturday's
game finally exposed Michigan
for what it really is and what it will
likely be for the rest of the season
- at best, a mediocre team.
- Ratkowiak can be reached
at cratkowisumich.edu.

*Ann Arbor 407 E Liberty St., (734) 669-8079
*Ann Arbor-Huron Village 3217 Washtenaw Blvd.
(734) 973-2043

*Belleville 9556 Belleville Rd., (734) 697-3500
*Ypsilanti 3765 Carpenter Rd., (734) 677-0707
*Open Sunday

Call a small business advisor at: (248) 538-5749
RadioShack.. omobile

For inrmtion on otherAT&T
products call 1-800-613-9420
AT&T imposes: a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with obligations and charges imposed by State and Federaltlelecom regulations; State and Federal universal Service charges; and surcharges for government
assessments on AT&T. These fees are not taxes or goernment-required charges.
3G not available in alt areas. Coverage is not available in all areas, See coverage map a stores for details. Limited-time offer. Other conditions & restritins apply. See contract & rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber mostive & have a mailing addr. within AT&T's owned wireless network coverage area. Up to $36 acti.
fee appies. Equipment price & avail may vary by mrk & may rot be available from independent retailers Early Termination fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days, but up to 35 restocking fee may apply to equipment returrs; thereafter up to $15. Some agents impose add'llees AT&T Promotion Card:USBConnect
Mercury price before At&T Promotion Card, DataConect plan & with 2-year contract is 119.99 Minimum 560 DataConnect plan required Allow f i days forulrirmee Card may be used only in the (S. & is valid for 120 days after issuance date but is not redeemable for cash & cannot be used for cash withdrawal at ATMs
or automated gasoline pumps. Card request must be postmarked by 12/08/09 & you must be a customer for 30 consecutive days to receive card. Sales tax calculated osed on price of unactivated equipment DataConuect plan is not undimited & sbstanti charges may be incurred if included allowance is exceeded.
c2009 AT&T Intellectual Property. Service provided by AT&T Mobility. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo, and all other marks contoined herein aretrademarks of AT& Intellectual Property and/or AT&Tofliated companies. Al other rrcks contained hereinrare the property of their respective owners.


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I October 26, 2009
j {R'ti ll S'.1

0 Penn Statetailback Evan Royster runs past a slew of Michigan defenders during Saturday's fourth quarter en route to a 35-10 Penn State win ft marked Michigan's third straight Big Ten lns
PENN STATE 35, MICHIGAN 10

'D' lapses, inability to
stop Clark doom Blue

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan deserved an awful
review.
And the Wolverines provided it
themselves.
"It's embarrassing," Michigan
secondary coach Tony Gibson said.
"We missed big play after big play
(and) couldn't get anything going."
With each of Michigan's previ-
ous two losses coming essentially
on the game's final play, its deflat-
ing 35-10 defeat to No.13 Penn State
was the first time all season the
Wolverines looked like last year's
nine-loss team.
"It's reallydisappointingbecause
I feel like we've really progressed
since then," redshirt sophomore
defensive tackle Ryan Van Bergen
said about the defense after the
game. "To go back and regress at
this point in the season is just some-
thing that we didn't want to do."
And it's hard not to look to the
defensive side of the ball when fig-
uring out what happened Saturday.
Last year, the defense gave up
35 points or more on six occasions.
Saturday was the first time the
 defense gave up that many all sea-
son, which left a struggling offense

in a hole too deep to overcome in
the final 15 minutes.
"Obviously we didn't prepare
hard enough for our opponent,"
redshirt sophomore linebacker
Brandon Herron said. "You know,
(Michigan) coach (Rich Rodriguez)
said it all in the locker room: big
plays we've given up on the field
have kind of hurt us. I just felt like
we should've worked a little harder
in order to win this game. No one's
to blame."
But those mistakes Herron
echoed are correctable. The most
alarming part of that comment is
about Michigan's preparation for
this critical game.
Sophomore Mike Martin said
that Rodriguez "told us he didn't
prepare us as well as he could, so he
took responsibility."
Even Penn State quarterback
Daryll Clark noticed it in the
defense, mentioning the Wolver-
ines "had trouble lining up" on a
few plays.
"They didn't do very much dis-
guising coverages," Clark said. "I
kind of knew where to throw the
football."
The lone highlight of the defense
was senior defensive end Brandon
Graham, who finished with seven

tackles - 3.5 of those tackles for
loss, which tied a career high - and
the first blocked punt of his career.
It's hard to pinpoint just one cul-
prit, though. The big-yardage gains
the Wolverines gave up were due
to mistakes by everyone, and Penn
State easily took advantage.
Senior Stevie Brown, a for-
mer four-star prospect, was beat
twice on end-zone routes by a for-
mer walk-on, Nittany Lions wide
receiver Graham Zug. Zug also
caught a third touchdown with
junior standout cornerback Dono-
van Warren covering him.
What was wrong with the
defense?
"I couldn't tell you," Warren
said. "I couldn't tell you what went
wrong, man. No clue."
Warren credited Penn State
for calling the right plays based
on what Michigan was running
schematically, but the huge, back-
breaking gains were rooted in the
smallest of mistakes.
Penn State capitalized on one of
them on its first offensive play after
the Wolverines gave up a safety
late in the second quarter. Herron
said he forgot to get his hands on
the tight end to slow him down, so
See NITTANY LIONS, Page 3B

I couldn't
tell you what
went wrong,
man. No clue.
- Donovan Warren,
junior cornerback

Cissoko plays
for first time
since Sept. 26
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
Boubacar Cissoko found himself in a familiar spot
during the waning moments of Michigan's 35-10 loss
to Penn State.
On the Wolverines' sideline, the sophomore corner-
back was lodged between the bench and the team's
space heater. Bracing himself with his left hand grip-
ping the bench and his right on the heater's handle,
the fire from the source hit squarely at his knees.
For more than two weeks now, that should feel
familiar - strugglingto find his place between the hot
seat and his teammates.
After starting in Michigan's first four games, Cis-
soko was benched in the fourth quarter against Indi-
anaanddidn'tplayinthenextthreegames.Hisinjured
shoulder had been an issue earlier in the season, but
Michigan coach Rich.Rodriguez officially suspended
Cissoko before the Wolverines' Oct. 10 matchup with
Iowa. The Detroit native began practicing with the
scout team, and his status has been day-to-day since.
Rodriguez said last Monday that he had met with
Cissoko nearly every day to discuss his personal and
academic progress, consistently noting that it was
"really up to him" when Cissoko would return. But on
a Friday mgoblue.com walkthrough video, Rodriguez
said Cissoko would participate against the Nittany
Lions.
"He just kept working the last couple of weeks com-
ing off of an injury and hadn't played well early on, but
See CISSOKO, Page 3B

SAID ALSALAH/Daily


VOLLEYBALL
Wolverines lose
composure and
match in four sets

By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writer
Frustration is an emotional
reaction that can easily get the
best of a sports team, which is
why a coach hopes it doesn't
happen to his players.
But Saturday night, Michi-
gan volleyball coach Mark
Rosen saw it happen to his
11th-ranked Wolverines after
they were snakebitten on the
road against No. 9 Minnesota
in a four-set match (20-25,
25-19, 25-22, 25-10).
"We got frustrated," Rosen
said. "There'snothingpositive
that can come out of getting
frustrated when you're play-
ing volleyball or any sport."
Michigan had some posi-
tives, though, it the begin-
ning of its match at Williams
Arena.
After surrendering a 9-2
lead in the opening frame. of

the match, the Wolverines
(6-4 Big Ten, 18-5 overall)
regained their composure
and tied the score at 13 before
taking the set 25-20.
Sophomore Alex Hunt led
the offensive attack with four
kills in the set while the Wol-
verines held Minnesota to a
.075 attack percentage, the
lowest of all the sets in the
match.
That's whenthe tide turned
for the road team.
In the final three stanzas,
Michigan had a mere .130
offensive attack average and
no blocks.
Rosen noted that at the
beginningnoftthe fourth set
- with his team down 2-1 in
the match - the Wolverines
had a perfect opportunity to
swing the momentum in the
match. The Golden Gophers
gave Michigan a series of free
See GOPHERS, Page 2B

LOST CHANCE
Find out why a bloody
upper lip and a referee's
whistle cost Michigan a
game-tying goal against
Michigan State. Page 2B.
REID: R-E-S-P-E-C-T
What college
football fans can learn
about respect from
Connecticut's reception in
Morgantown. Page 2B.
Check out www.michigandaily.com for
coverage of women's swimming and
field hockey. NN

Penalties kill Michigan
By MICHAEL FLOREK
BOSTON - In a matchup of top-
five teams, it was the sixth man
that was the problem.
It wasn't the Agganis Arena
crowd that caused the No. 5
Michigan hockey team's 3-2 loss
Saturday as much as it was the
Wolverines' own extra man on the
ice.
No. 3 Boston University (1-2-0)
scored two power play goals to
take a 2-0
lead, with MICHIGAN 2
both com- BOSTON U. 3
ing after
the Wolverines were handed pen-
alties for having too many men on
the ice in between shifts.
"We have to work harder to get
off the ice, and we have to be more
patient about getting on the ice,"
Michigan coach Red Berenson
said. "I can't blame our players for tRIBNsD/Daily
wnting on, but you hav wa t Junior Bryan Hogan allowed a fluke game-winning goal with 2:31 left in regulation.
till the other guy's off or nearly off the box. Freshman Chris Brown switch the lines.
and then if the puck's in that vicin- was ejected three minutes into The line change paid dividends
ity, it's an opportunity for the ref the third period, and senior Steve minutes later as sophomore Rob-
to call it." Kampfer got a 10-minute miscon- bie Czarnik and junior Matt Rust
The bench minors were the duct at the same time. Those pen- each scored in a third-period
start of a flurry of penalties - the alties, along with Michigan's lack onslaught.
teams combined for 66 minutes in of offense, led the coaching staff to See TERRIERS, Page 2B


2B - October 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - October 26, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

Footballfans
can learn from
West Virginians

SOCCER STRUGGLES

There are few instances
in American society
where 100,000 diverse
people can come together for a
few hours with the same goals in
mind.
That's one
of the great
things about
the big ol' bowl
that is Michi-.
gan Stadium -
people from all 7
different slicesA
of life don't ANDY
even think A
twice about REID
high-fiving the
stranger next
to them and celebrating a Wol-
verine touchdown.
It's something I have always
loved about the Big House, some-
thing that always seemed unique
about the history and tradition
of Michigan football. But on
Saturday, the unity felt between
Michigan fans on the corner of
Stadium and Main didn't even
come close to the powerful mes-
sage sent by the fans in Morgan-
town, W. Va.
While Michigan fans were
throwing their traditional boos
down to Penn State players and
coaches as they trotted onto the
field, West Virginia fans were
actually applauding their oppo-
nent - a standing ovation, in fact
- for the Connecticut Huskies.
Six days before the Huskies
took on the Mountaineers, one of
their own, Jasper Howard, was
stabbed to death outside of a Uni-
versity-sanctioned dance. When
Saturday rolled around, it was
obviously difficult to suit up. The
Huskies' uniforms now included
a memorial sticker to honor their
fallen teammate.
"It was hard," Connecticut
safety Robert Vaughn told the
Hartford Courant after the game.
"But at the same time, in a game
like that, you've just got to forget
about the last play and go on to
the next play, and we did. We
played four quarters."
But the Mountaineer faithful
made the day a little easier. As
TERRIERS
From page 1B
Four minutes after Terrier goal-
tender Kieran Millan bobbled the
puck into his own net to give up
the shutout, Rust streaked down
the left side and shot a backhand
into the upper right corner of the
net to tie the game at two with 5:30
remaining in the game.
"One thing I've been working
on lately is taking the puck more to
the net and not veering off wide,"
Rust said. "I tried to take it to the
net and saw a spot top right and put
it there. Normally I don't actually
put it there, but I put it there this
time."
After the goal, the small Wolver-
ine contingent of fans in the east
corner cheered for the first time
all night as the momentum com-
pletely shifted in Michigan's favor.
Thoughts of beating the Terriers
on their own ice for the first time
in 19 years crossed the Wolverines'
minds.
But the satisfaction for Michi-
gan (2-2-0) was short-lived.
Just three minutes later, junior
goaltender Bryan Hogan made

another puck-handling mistake
behind the net. Hogan went out to
play the puck with a man on him,
and an errant pass found its way to
Boston forward Joe Pereira's stick.
Pereira quickly wrapped around
the net and buried the puck, beating

the Huskies exited the tunnel
together, with Howard's jersey
and helmet, everyone inside
Milan Puskar Stadium stood and
cheered.
The class that West Virginia
fans showed on Saturday is one of
the main reasons college football
is so great.
Sometimes it's hard to see
through the face mask - to real-
ize that behind all the padding
and athleticism, there are kids
on that field, some as young as
18. But on Saturday, the helmets
came off and Connecticut players
saw just how powerful the game
of college football can be.
The strength and courage it
took for Connecticut to take an
unfamiliar field so soon after
such a loss is a feat definitely
worthy of the Mountaineers'
warm welcome.
"A couple of tears started com-
ing out right there," Connecticut
wide receiver Kashif Moore told
in the Courant.
It reminded me of the moment
of silence observed in Ohio Stadi-
um in 2006, the day after Michi-
gan football's greatest coach, Bo
Schembechler, passed away.
I had spent the entire day
being mercilessly and terribly
heckled by scarlet-and-gray clad
drunkards, and I was fully con-
vinced that these people could
not - and would not - show any
class at all when they memorial-
ized Schembechler before the
game.
But while the fiercest rivalry
in college football was just
minutes away - and the teams
were rated No. 1 and No. 2 in the
county - not a peep was heard
throughout the 102,329-seat sta-
dium. Not even an accidental cell
phone ring.
When you put things in per-
spective, football is just a game,
and there are more important
things in life than a game. That
was proved in Columbus that
day - and in Morgantown on
Saturday.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.
Hogan's last-second stick lunge.
"He's anticipating the puck is
going to move better than it did,"
Berenson said. "His decision was
not good and his execution wasn't
good either. It was a bad goal. It's
too bad because he had a good
game, but you can't hide it."
Despite allowing three goals,
the defensive zone was a strong
point for the Wolverines, especially
when compared to the seven goals
the team surrendered to the Ter-
riers last season. The defensemen
were able to get sticks on attempted
passes in front of the net, especial-
ly in the first two periods, when the
Terriers were carryingthe play.
After allowing34 shots to Niaga-
ra two nights earlier, the defensive
unit cut that down to 22 against
Boston. Boston's inability to get
the puck out of their own zone in
the third period caused the Terri-
ers to register only four shots in the
final stanza, and they were outshot
for the first time all season as the
Wolverines launched 35 shots at
Millan.
But of those 35, too many ulti-
mately fell short.
"We worked a lot on it in prac-
tice, just honing in on the defensive
zone, making sure we're doing our

responsibilities," senior captain
Chris Summers said. "I think it's
starting to showe. We're not quite
there yet, but it's still early in the
season and hopefully we can put
some things together here."

SAID ALSALAH/daily
The Michigan women's soccer team recorded two more ties this weekend due to staunch defense and a quiet offensive attack.
'D' keeps Wolverines in ties

By ZAK PYZIK on the penalty kick," Michigan
Daily Sports Writer coach Greg Ryan said. "I was just
looking for somebody to take it. I
One of the Michigan women's looked out at a couple people and
soccer team's most irritating situ- they said they didn't want it, but
ations is when it can't seem to Alex stepped up. She buried it, but
find anyone to step up in a crucial in a million years I wouldn't have
moment, picked Alex to take it. But a penal-
especial- WISCONSIN 0 ty kick is psychological, and Alex
ly for a MICHIGAN 0 wanted it."
penalty This weekend, the team wanted
kick. But MINNESOTA 1 its first win since Sept. 20, but it
Friday's MICHIGAN 1 only managed to force Minnesota
reluctant and Wisconsin into draws. Michi-
surprise salvaged the weekend. gan (0-2-5 Big Ten, 5-7-5 overall)
Midway through of the sec- effectively held two high-scoring
ond half of Fridays game, senior offenses to collectively just one
midfielder Alex Jendrusch flaw- tally in 1-1 and 0-0 ties, respec-
lessly netted a penalty kick after tively.
an unintentional handball. The The games told similar stories.
Wolverines continued to play very On Friday, the Golden Gophers
conservatively to preserve a 1-1 (3-3-2, 10-5-3) got off to a quick
stalemate. start by scoring in the first 45 sec-
"I didn't tell them anything onds of the game.

"As a defense, we need to play
tight," Michigan coach Greg Ryan
said. "It was a simple breakaway
for them."
With a young defense - and
helped by a lot of rain - the Wol-
verines prevented Minnesotafrom
scoring for the rest of the game.
On Sunday, the Michigan
defense held the Wisconsin
offense scoreless. Redshirt fresh-
man Haley Kopmeyer recorded
her fifth shutout of the season,
to tie Michigan's rookie shutout
record.
The Badgers (4-1-4, 8-5-5) are
just one of two teams in the Big
Ten that rank lower than Michi-
gan in goals scored, but, Wiscon-
sin's offense played much more
aggressively.
In the first half, it put up 10
shots against the Wolverines. The
Badgers missed one opportunity

off of a free kick when a Wiscon-
sin forward took a shot about six
yards back, but Kopmeyer was
there for the save.
Junior forward Amanda Bow-
ery couldn't capitalize on her
two scoring opportunities, and
both looked like great chances to
take advantage of a weak Badger
defense that is second-worst inthe
conference in goals allowed. But
both times, Bowery was forced
to take a shot from about 25 yards
out of range and in traffic.
Just like during the rest of the
season, the offense did not play
aggressively enough.
"They played a 4-2, and when
they get to a certain distance you
can't really play through ball,"
Bowery said.
"You have to pass or you have
to shoot, and shooting was the
only option."

0
0
0

M' falls just short in comeback bid

Fuzetti's would-be
game-tying goal
erased by sight of
blood on upper lip
By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
It was a classic case of outplay-
ing your opponent but falling just
a little too short.
Yesterday in East Lansing, as
the Michigan men's soccer team
domi-
nated MICHIGAN 1
the Spar- MICHIGAN ST. 2
tans but
lost the battle for the Big Bear
Trophy 2-1.
"Overall, you tend tobe a little
disheartened by a loss like this
to a big in-state rival," Michigan
coach Steve Burns said. "We felt
like this is a recurring theme for
our team where we feel like we're
the aggressor, we feel like we're
the better team, but we're not
getting the wins."
Late in the second half with
the score tied 1-1, it appeared that

senior forward Mauro Fuzetti
might change the story's ending.
In a bizarre sequence of events,
Fuzetti shrugged off a blow to
the face from a Spartan defender
before slicing through Michigan
State's back line.
He ripped a shot into the net,
but the referee negated the goal
after spotting blood on Fuzetti's
upper lip. Under such scenarios,
the official normally waits for a
neutral possession to blow the
play dead.
"I think that kind of showed
that it wasn't going our way,"
Burns said. "I've never seen a call
like that, and I don't know why
he would make a call like that."
Regardless of the question-
able call, the Wolverines (1-3 Big
Ten, 9-5-1 overall) had numerous
opportunities to close out Michi-
gan State (2-3 Big Ten, 9-4-1
overall). The Wolverines outshot
the Spartans 19-7 and controlled
the possession battle, but repeat-
edly failed to execute.
Twice, the Wolverines sent
shots past junior goalkeeper
Avery Steinlage that were cleared
by Spartan defenders as the ball
approached the goal line. Junior

forwar
team's'
the sea
"We
instinc
turninl
tain D
have ai
and sea
is right
Afte
the W

d Matt Schmitt netted the conduct throughout yesterday's
lone goal, his first score of match, a byproduct of aggressive
son. play and a whistle-happy refer-
were lacking the killer ee. Junior and senior defenders
t when the game was Adam Keller and Chase Ten-
g," fifth-year senior cap- nant were both ejected from the
aniel Gray said. "We don't game, leaving reserves to fill the
nyone that pushes the pace left side of the defense. Each will
als the deal when the time serve a one-game suspension
." when the Wolverines face North-
r starting the season 7-1, western next Sunday.
olverines have won just Michigan will also face the
Wildcats without junior defender
Jeff Quijano, who left the game
on crutches after injuring his
W e felt like ankle. Without those three start-
ing defenders, the shorthanded
this was a Wolverines will be forced to

"4

resort to a more conservative
recurring theme strategy.
f u a"With new players in the back,
for our teamn. there's a relationship that all of
your backs need to have with
one another and there's a trust,"
Burns said.
two of their past six games and "It takes a while to develop
need victories over Northwest- that trust. We won't take as many
ern and at Ohio State in the next chances moving forward with
two weeks to even be considered our wide players gettinginvolved
for an at-large bid to next month's in the attack. We'll probably hold
NCAA tournament. those guys at home and focus on
The Wolverines received a being astrong defense inthe back
season-high seven cards for mis- half of the field."

Core four lead Michigan to third-place finish

0

M-Note: Muresan
reaches ITA quarters

By ZAK PYZIK Wolverine's top four finishers for
Daily Sports Writer the last four fall events.
Georgia Tech won the tourna-
They should be called the fabu- ment by seven strokes this past
lous four. weekend, beating out the Wolver-
Freshmen Rahul Bakshi and ines by ten strokes.
Jack Schultz, sophomore Matt "Jack got us off to a great start,"
Thompson and junior Lion Kim head coach Andy Sapp said. "Lion
lifted the Michigan men's golf also posted well. We got off to a
team to a third-place finish at great start the first day. We didn't
this weekend's 2009 Bridgestone play well and they did, and that is.
Intercollegiate to conclude their not a good combination."
squad's fall season. Schultz finished the tourna-
The four athletes have been the ment shooting 211 over three

rounds. His play mimicked the
weather, which got progressively
worse, in the first round. He fin-
ished with a 66, but as the rain
got worse and the 30 mile-per-
hour winds proved challenging,
Michigan struggled to finish in
the clutch.
"Lion and Matt shot games
under par, which is definitely
good," Sapp said.
"With a 276 (one-round team
score), and still trying to win
tournaments, it's going to be hard

to do."
Individually, Kim finished
best for the Wolverines, claiming
sixth. He put on a stunning, con-
sistent performance, shooting a 70
in the first and third round and a
69 in round two.
"We have some things to work
on and improve upon," Sapp said.
"We had a solid fall, minus prob-
ably two rounds. ... We just didn't
get it done today, but it was good
to have the opportunity to have a
chance at a win here today."

The Michigan women's ten-
nis team has had an impressive
outing at the Intercollegiate
Tennis Association over the
weekend in Evanston.
The play of Junior Denise
Muresan highlighted the
Wolverines' efforts in singles
competition, winning both of
her matches in straight sets.
Because she was the only play-
er to win yesterday (6-2, 6-2),
Muresan will advance to the
quarterfinals of the main draw
today.
No. 74 junior Rika Tatsuno is

the only other Michigan player
to get a win in the main draw on
Saturday before losing yester-
day (6-1,6-2).
Freshman Taylor Fournier
continued to play well in the
first singles competition of her
collegiate career, coming off
of a flight title in the Kentucky
Invitational two weeks ago.
Fournier won both of her quali-
fying matches before losing her
first set in the main draw.
The Wolverines also had
strong outings in doubles play,
going 6-3 overall.

0


GOPHERS
From page 1B
balls.
Rosen said Minnesota (8-2,
17-5) displayed "no aggressive
attacking mentality."
"We served them off balance
and attacked them very aggres-
sivelv." Rosen said. "So. as a

result, there is a higher percent-
age to capitalize and grab a point
off a free ball."
But the Wolverines couldn't
score a single point off of the free
balls, which is when frustration
started to set in.
According to Rosen, the pass-
ing "went out the door," there
the Wolverines made execution

errors across the board and Min-
nesota's defense started to kick
into high gear.
Michigan's fate was sealed for
the night after the first few min-
utes of the first set, but Rosen
said the Wolverines are not harp-
ing on this loss as a roadblock in
their season.
"The biggest thing is we have

to move forward," Rosen said.
"We can't let this match define
our season just like we can't let a
win against (then-No. 3) Nebras-
ka (on Aug. 28) define us.
"If we learn that frustration
isn't going to get us anywhere
and eliminate that from the rest
of our season, that will be a good
thing."

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

October 26, 2009 - 3B

GAME STATISTICS

Ground and air fail Wolverines

Team Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
Comp/Att/nt
Offensive Plays
KiTk teturns/ Yds
Punt returns/Yds
Punts/Avg
Fumbles/Lost
Penalties/Yards
Time of Poss
PASSING
Player
' Forcier .
Robinson
RUSHING
Player A
Minor
BrUSn, Carlos
Forcier
Shaw
TEAM
Totals 4
RECIENG
Player N
Mathews
Odoms
Savoy
Wb
Totals
PUNTING
Player
Mesko
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player
Brown, Carlos
PUNT RETURNS
Player
Hemingway
Gra'"m
TACKLES
Player
Williams, Mike
Martin, Mike
Graham '
Mouton
Ezeh
Heininger
Smith
Sagesse
Banks
Conover
Roundtree
Schilling
Demens
Fitzgerald
Herron
Totas

PennState
18
40/166
230
16/27/0
67
396
4/99
3/19
7/30.7
U/U
5/35
34:48
M I C H I G A N
13/30 140
0/3 l0

Mihigan
17
40/110
140
13/33/2
73
4/$9
2/27
7/44.9
3/2
5/33
25:12

TO
0
0

Att
12
14
1
1
40
No.
7
3
1
1

Yds
48
35
20
10
-1
-2
110
Yds
70
34
19
11
6
140

Avg
4.0
4.7
-1.0
-2.0
2.8
Avg
10.0
11.3
19.0
10.8

Ls
8
12
0
17
L8
19
20
19
20

1
1
0
z
TD
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
TD.
0
0
0
0
0
0

By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
The ground game has driven
the Michigan offense all season.
But as the Wolverines fell more
and more behind in their 35-10
loss to Penn State on Saturday,
they had to look more to the air.
Freshmen quarterbacks Tate
Forcier and
Denard Robin- NOTEBOOK
son attempted
33 combined passes Saturday, tied
for the most this season.
"They're trying to make plays,
they're trying," senior wide
receiver Greg Mathews said of the
quarterbacks. "It's not like they're
not trying. They just have to be
smart with the ball in certain situ-
ations."
Michigan still racked up 110
yards on the ground, which was
35 more than the stout Penn State
defense had allowed on aver-
age before the game. And senior
Brandon Minor, who has battled
a nagging ankle injury all season,
brought a physical presence to the
game on just 12 carries.
"Yeah, he runs hard," Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez said.
"Again, he still wasn't at 100 per-
cent. It's a chronic thing, and if
he hits ita certain way, it bothers
him, but he tries to fight through
it."
CATCHING CONCERNS: After
completing all three of his passes
on the Wolverines' first drive,
Forcier was just 1O-of-27 passing
the rest of the game. But those
numbers were certainly impacted
by the number of dropped passes.
"You know, it was the first time
this year - we've had a few drops
(this season) but it seemed like
today, a lot of them were on third
down or crucial situations, and

But from an outsider's per-
spective, Penn State quarterback
Daryll Clark didn't seem too
impressed by the pageantry of the
moment.
. = "Both teams come out of the
same tunnel," Clark said. "We
were out in the tunnel, waiting for
Michigan to go down. They were
'Ra-Ra,' makinga lot of noise, run-
ning down the tunnel and what
not.
According to Clark, the most
pumped up guy in the pregame
tunnel was at least 60 years older
than the players wearing the
winged helmets.
"We look over at (Joe Paterno),
and he's jumping up and down,"
Clark said. "He's jumping up and
down talking about, 'Yeah, yeah,
yeah,' and I'm looking at him and
I'm like, 'OK, it's time to play foot-
ball, seriously.' But you've got to
love the guy."
The banner is about nine feet
off the ground, which one might
think would be a very difficult
task for the 82-year old Paterno if
given the opportunity to tap it.
But Clark seems to think differ-
,.tently.
"Who, him? Aw, he'd have
jumped over it," Clark said.
NOTES: There is still no word
on whether wide receiver Junior
Hemingway and center David
Molk, who were both injured in
ZACHARY MEISNER/Da/y Saturdays game, will be ready to
Senior running back Brandon Minor only recorded 12 carries as the Michigan running game struggled against Penn State. go next week at Illinois. ... Sat-
urday marked the sixth time in
we had done a really good job all afternoon, which could hinder a maybe even on the second drive,,. eight games that punter Zoltan
year of making the catches on the team's passing attack, Rodriguez we still had some momentum and Mesko averaged more than 40
catchable balls," Rodriguez said. only partially attributed the drops that drop kind of hurt us there." yards per punt. Mesko did not
Several dropped passes from to the weather. JOE PA: Running out of the punt once against Delaware State
the tight end position - by both "It was a little wet, but I don't tunnel and leaping to touch the and averaged just 32.5 yards
sophomore Kevin Koger and know if it was just a concentra- "Go Blue" banner during pregame per punt against Notre Dame.
junior Martell Webb - stunt- tion thing, and sometimes you try festivities may be one of the most Mesko currently ranks fifth in
ed drives throughout the day. too hard or whatever," Rodriguez well-known traditions in college the nation, averaging 45.49 yards
Although it rained for most of the said. "In particular, early, I think football. per kick.

No. Yds Avg Lg
7 314 44.9 62
7 314 44.9 62
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
2 47 23s 22 0
A 89 22.3 U6 U
No. Yds Avg tg TD
1 19 19.0 19 0

Soto Asst
6 3
3 4
3 4
2 5
3 2
3 1
2 2
, 2
1 2
1 1
1 0
1 0
1 0
0 1
38 42
P e nn S ta t e
C-A Yds
16.27 230
16.27 30

Tot
9
8
7
7
7
7
S
4
4
3
3
2
2
2
t
S
t
80
TD IM
4 0
4 0


PASSING
Player
Clark
Totals
RUSHING
Player
Royste
Beachum
Carter
TEAM
Totals
RECEMVNG
Player
Hoye
Zug
Quarles
Totals


Att
20
7
3
l
1
i
1
40
No.
6
5
2
2
1
16

Yds
100
23
18
13
11
3
-2
166
Yds
53
59
91
24
3
230

Avg
5.0
3.3
6.0
1.9
11.0
3.0
0.0
4.2
Avg
8.8
11.8
40.5
12
3.0
14.4

Ls
41
11
3
4
41
L9
14
18$
60
60

TD
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TD
0
3
t
0
0
4

CISSOKO
From page 1B
I thought he got a little better
as the week went on," second-
ary coach Tony Gibson said
after the game. "The last couple
weeks he's been working so we
thought it was time for him to
play again."
Against Penn State, Rodri-
guez called on Cissoko midway
through the first quarter. On
third down and 4 with the Nit-
tany Lions at Michigan's 17-yard
line, Penn State quarterback
Daryll Clark's pass opposite Cis-
spko fell incomplete and the Nit-
tanyLions were held to a 34-yard
field goal.
Cissoko came in sporadically
throughout the game, mostly on
third downs and never playing
more than a few snaps at a time.
On his limited opportunities,
Cissoko was not exploited oppo-
site junior Donovan Warren.
Penn State concentrated mainly
on Warren, meaning Cissoko
didn't look particularly over-
matched in big plays as he had
earlier in the season.
"Boubacar just came back
with a vengeance," Warren said.
"You know he worked hard
in practice this week. Got the
coaches to trust him real well.
This was just a matter of them
having confidence in him, and
they got confidence in him."
When Cissoko played, the
Wolverines made major adjust-
ments in the defensive backfield.
Junior cornerback Troy Wool-
folk, who had filled in at corner
in Cissoko's absence, moved
back to safety and replaced red-
shirt sophomore Mike Williams.

NITTANY LIONS nois) next week, which is a huge
From page lB opportunity for us."
Fr____page __B_ Though Michigan's collapse
was a combination of many fac-
tors, including questionable
redshirt junior Obi Ezeh didn't preparation and countless mis-
have time to make his read. takes, one thing is clear after
The result was a 60-yard Saturday: The Wolverines cer-
touchdown bomb to tight end tainly won't be in the Rose Bowl
Andrew Quarless. as Brown talked about before
The score gave the Nittany the Penn State game.
Lions a two-possession lead they And Michigan didn't even
wouldn't relinquish. seem close to that level of play
"That was just a bad day for against the Nittany Lions.
us, I guess," Martin said. "We "I'm disappointed we never
just got to have a better week gave ourselves a chance," Gib-
of preparation going into (Illi- son said.
FREE DAT COURSE! -
FREE, COURSE
- For the first 20 enrolled
60% OFF COURSE
- For the second 20 enrolled
DAT Course Value $1399
Valid o:,5019-0L 5e19-04
80-2Revo IPnncetonResyew.cmos
Cornerof S.University &S. Foesot n
-an-

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Boubacar Cissoko played Saturday in his first game since Sept. 26.
Woolfolk played alongside red- is still in limbo. Rodriguez said
shirt freshman Jordan Kovacs. after the game Cissoko will con-
When Cissoko came out, Wool- tinue to play "unless he screws
folk and Williams returned to up again," but as a whole, the
their starting spots. Wolverines are happy to have
"We didn't know what was Cissoko back.
going to happen with Boubac- "I'm happy not just for Bou-
ar - don't make me say his last bacar, but for all my teammates,"
name - Cissoko," Penn State outside linebacker Brandon Her-
quarterbacks coach Jay Paterno ron said. "But Boubacar, he's got
said. "We saw him on the field a little issues that needed to get
and said, 'OK, they're probably corrected and coaches needed to
going to move No. 29 (Wool- do what they needed to do to get
folk) back.' It didn't create a lot him back. ... Hey, the slogan's,
of adjustments for us, but you do 'We're all in for Michigan,' and
want to know who's where and we don't want to see one of our
what they're doing." teammates fail. Just to bring him
Cissoko's future this season back and help him is a pleasure."

PUNTING
Player No. nds Avg R T
HERSe 6 25 355 UN
TEAM 1 0 0.0 R
Totals 7 215 30 5 44
KICKOFF RETURNS
Hlaer N Nd Uv g T
PwellEE 2 71 3 4 0
Hayes 1 20 20.0 20 0
Dailey 1 8 8.0 8 0
Totals 3 81 26.3 34 0
PUNT RETURNS.
Player No. Yds Avg Lg TD
Zug 2 19 9.5 10 0
Astorino 1 0 0 0
Total 3 19 6 -3 10 0
Pe Stae Soo Ass T
Hull 6 4 10
Wallace ' a 2 1 3
Lee 0 3 3
Colasanti 2 0 2
Morris 2 0 25
sudu 2 2
MSeay 2 - 2
Odrick 1 2 25
BIG T:'EN STAND NGS
Tearn Big Ten Overall
Iowa .4-0 8-0
Ohio State 4-1 6-2
Penn State 3-1 7-1
Michigan State 3-2 4-4
Wisconsin 2-2 5-2
Northwestern 2-2 5-3
Purdue 2-2 3-5
Minnesota 2-3 4-4
Michigan 1-3 5-3 .
Indiana 1-3 4-4
S Illinois 0-5 1-6
Big Ten Results
Penn State 35, Michigan 10
Iowa 15, Michigan State 13
Ohio State 38, Minnesota 7 .
Purdue 24, Illinois 14
Northwestern 29, Indiana 28

Toronto can't keep up
with 'M' swimmers

By RYAN A. PODGES
Daily Sports Writer
For the Wolverines, the hard-
est part of the season's first men's
swimming and diving dual meet
was not beating their opponent,
the University of Toronto.
It was fighting their own
fatigue.
After nearly two months of
intense training, there was no
doubt Michigan was tired com-
ing into the meet. But they still
took care of business, crushing
the Varsity Blues 186-99 at Can-
ham Natatorium on Friday.
"We've been getting our butts
kicked every day for quite a few
weeks now," junior Tyler Clary
said. "We're at the end, hope-
fully, of a very hard training
phase."
Michigan won 15 of the 17
events. In the two events it
did lose, the 400-yard freestyle
relay and the 200-yard butterfly,
Toronto touched out the Wol-
verines by 0.48 and 0.11 seconds,
respectively.
Winning its dual meet sea-
son opener is nothing new for
Michigan. The Wolverines have
won 41 of their last 42 inaugural

meets. The tapes came in handy,
With the swimmers a little especially during one of the best
worn down from recent prac- races of the night- the 200-yard
tices, their times were not as individual medley during which
important as the outcome of the junior Neal Kennedy nearly
races and the technicality of the touched out Clary. Kennedy had
swims. been leading the race for the first
"Any meet that's not an end- 150 yards, but may have lost his
of-the-season meet, you want to edge on the last flip turn, as the
go in there and try to work on "instant replay" revealed.
specifics like starts, turns and "Neal and I walked over .to
breakouts," Clary, who won the watch the 200 IM replay," Clary
200- and 400-yard individual said. "On the last turn, we could
medley and the 200-yard back- see I stayed underwater and did
stroke, said. "I'll use these times a few extra kicks and he came
as markers, but I definitely do right up to the surface. He
not compare them with my per- looked at me and just said, 'Holy
sonal best times because that crap, you just whooped my ass
can get depressing." on that part.'"
Michigan had strong perfor- Michigan coach Mike Bottom
mances from its seniors. Char- certainly hopes his team learned
lie Houchin, Alon Mandel, Evan from the relays and the meet.
Ryser and co-captain Andr The hardest training cycle may
Schultz all won two individual be over for now, but his expecta-
events and each swam on relays. tions for the team are still high.
After each race, the Michigan "I am never going to be where
swimmers watched replays of I want to be," Bottom told the
the races on a video screen set Athletic Department. "I always
up next to their bench on the want to be better. My expecta-
pool deck. The races were taped tions are real high for theseguys,
from the deck above the pool, so they will have a hard time
and each swimmer broke down meeting them. I would hope that
his swim to learn from his mis- we would be a lot better the next
takes. time we get in the water."

i.

uuucnganis nest costume sho@p
.t~


4B -- October 26, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

MAIZE GAUGE
MESK-O-METER

The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Mesk-o-Meter measures the success of special teams, the Rod-o-Meter
judges how emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

t
~r w r
y
i
. k
ROD-O-METER

Mesko didn't disappoint, per usual, and averaged 44.9 yards
per punt on seven kicks. He also eclipsed the 10,000 yard
mark to further extend his Michigan record. But no one else
Zoltans
on special teams showed up, especially in the return game.

2/
Rich Rods

Rich Rodriguez was calm after the game, a demeanor far
different from during his postgame Michigan State and
Iowa press conferences. He offered perspective on the
freshmen and coaching decisions, but that was about it.

HYPE-O-METER
2 Before Saturday, the hype couldn't have been at more of a
fever pitch. But by game's end, the Big House felt more like
Big Houses Beaver Stadium, with an emptying student section and
raucous Nittany Lion fans. And the Maize Out simply sucked.

0


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

PLAY OF THE GAME

0 L TM M TF k' --A
SAIDALSALAH/Daily SAIDALSALAH/ Daily
DEFENSIVE END BRANDON GRAHAM MICHIGAN RECEIVING CORPS
Graham's stat line pretty much speaks for itself. Dropped balls, dropped balls and more dropped
The senior tied a career high with 3.5 tackles for balls. Sophomore Kevin Koger had three. Redshirt
loss, including one big third-down sack. Graham sophomore Kelvin Grady had a big one on third
also blocked a punt for the first time. Unfortunately down. And there were a few more, but we ran out of
for Michigan, he cannot be cloned 10 more times. fingers. That'll put a damper on any passing game.

0

NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
We were out in the
tunnel, waiting for
Michigan to go down.
They were rah, rah,'
makisg a lot of noise,
running down the
tunnel. ...We look over
at Joe, and he's jumping
up and dow..... And I'm
looking at him and I'm
like, 'OK, it's time to play
football, seriously.' "
- Penn State quarterback Daryll Clark
on coach Joe Paterno's pregame energy.
When asked if JoePa could touch the Go
Blue banner, Clark added, "Who, him?
Aw, he'd have jumped over it."

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top 10 returns for its eighth installment this season. Each week, Daily
Sports staffers will fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place votes
receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with first-place votes in parentheses.

1. FLORIDA (5): Shakos
off to Drum Major David
Hines for beingthe only
one to predict a close game.
2. TEXAS (2): The
Longhorns laugh at those
who thought Missouri was
actually acompetentrival..
3. ALABAMA (3): The
Crimson Tide didn't need
to scorea touchdown in
their win over Tennessee.
4. CINCINNATI: Cincy is
off to its best start in 55
years. That's when this
logo debuted. Maybe.
S. USC: Oregon State drops
to .500 against the Trojans
over the past four years. It
was a good run. Sigh.

6. IOWA (1): Iowa is
great at raising and then
crushing the hopes of this
state's football fans.
7. BOISE STATE:Vacation
to Hawaii. Win by 45. Not
too shabby of a weekend if
you're from Idaho.
8. TCU: The Horned Frogs
justjumped Boise State in
the BCS. Hopefully they'll
forgive these rankings.
9. LSU: The Tigers at home
are a lock. They haven't
lost twice ina row in Baton
Rouge since 2001.
10. OREGON: The Ducks'
special teams dominated
with a fake field goal and
blocked punt for a score.

6

STAFF PICKS
The Daily Football writers do their
best to predict what happens (
in the 2009 football season. Michael Ruth
Eisenstein - Lincoln


Courtney
Ratkowiak

Andy
Reid

r . x a

No.13 Penn State (-4.5) at Michigan
No.1 Alabama (-15.5) vs. Tennessee
No. 2 Florida(-22.5) at Mississippi State
No.3 Texas (-12) at Missouri
No. 4 Southern Cal (-21) vs. Oregon State
No.5 Cincinnati (-18) vs. Louisville
No. 6 Boise State (-24.5) at Hawaii
No.7Iowa (+1) at Michigan State
No. 8 Miami (FL) (-5.5) vs. Clemson
No.9 LSU (-7.5) vs. Auburn
No.10 TCU (-2.5) at No.16 BYU
No.11 Georgia Tech (-6) at Virginia
No.12 Oregon (-10) at Washington
No.14 Oklahoma State (-10) at Baylor
No.17 Houston (-17) vs. Southern Methodist
No.18 Ohio State (-17) vs. Minnesota
No.19 Utah (-9:5) vs. Air Force.
No. 20 Pittsburgh (-6.5) vs. South Florida
No. 21 Texas Tech (-21.5) vs. Texas A&M
No. 22 West Virginia (-7) vs. Connecticut
No. 23 South Carolina (-13) vs. Vanderbilt
No. 24 Kansas (+8) vs. No.25 Oklahoma
Indiana (+5) at Northwestern
Illinois (+11) at Purdue
Last Week
Overall

Michigan
Alabama
Florida
Texas
Oregon State
Cincinnati
Hawaii
Iowa
Miami
LSU
BYU
Georgia Tech
Oregon
Oklahoma State
Houston
Ohio State
Utah
Pittsburgh
Texas Tech
Connecticut
South Carolina
Oklahoma
Northwestern
Purdue
13-11
96-79-1

Michigan
Alabama
Florida
Missouri
Southern Cal
Cincinnati
Boise State
Iowa
Clemson
Auburn
BYU
Georgia Tech
Washington
Oklahoma State
Houston
Ohio State
Air Force
South Florida
Texas A&M
Connecticut
Vanderbilt
Kansas
Indiana
Illinois
14-10
90-85-1

Michigan
Tennessee
Florida
Texas
Oregon State
Cincinnati
Hawaii
Iowa
Miami
Auburn
BYU
Georgia Tech
Washington
Oklahoma State
Houston
Ohio State
Utah
South Florida
Texas Tech
Connecticut
South Carolina
Oklahoma
Indiana
Purdue
12-12
92-83-1

Michigan
Tennessee
Florida
Missouri
Southern Cal
Cincinnati
Boise State
Iowa
Miami
LSU
Texas Christian
Georgia Tech
Oregon
Oklahoma State
Houston
Minnesota
Utah
South Florida
Texas Tech
West Virginia
South Carolina
Kansas
Indiana
Purdue
11-13
82-93-1

Guest Picker:
Michigan
Marching Band
Drum Major
David Hinies Jr
Michigan
Alabama
Mississippi State
Texas
Southern Cal
Cincinnati
Hawaii
lowa
Miami
Auburn
BYU
Georgia Tech
Oregon
Oklahoma State
Houston
Ohio State
Utah
South Florida
Texas Tech
Connecticut
South Carolina
Kansas
Indiana
Purdue
11-13
92-83-1

6

To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.
: , t


