STUDENTSTOY TROUBLES
* OPINION Columnist Eileen
Stahl returns to Toys "R"Us
h year's ad d efor a trip down memory lane,
but gets a rude awakening.
See Opinion, Page 4A
JIFe-1Nid ian BaiIP

Ann Arbor, Michigan'

Wednesday, April 8, 2009

michigandaily.com

PASSING ON TRADITION

THE ECONOMICS OF HIGHER ED
Few options
in pricey test
prep. market

As demand grows
for exam help, few
colleges opt to offer
an alternative
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
When LSA senior Kelli Hunts-
man started preparing for the
LSAT last year, she took advan-
tage of the one graduate school
entrance exam prep course
offered by the University.
But when she started the LSAT
Familiarization Course through
the Career Center her junior
year, she realized it wouldn't be
enough.

"I thought it was a good intro-
duction course to see the differ-
ent kinds of questions the LSAT
had," she said. However, Hunts-
man added, "I felt I definitely had
to take another class after that to
be fully prepared."
Facing the prospect of a gradu-
ate school entrance exam that
could determine the course of
their professional careers, stu-
dents around the country are
turning in increasing numbers
to test prep classes for the LSAT,
MCAT, GED and GMAT. But,
with a void of alternatives from
their respective universities, stu-
dents are forced to fork over big
bucks to commercial test prepa-
ration companies like Princeton
Review and Kaplan Test Prep and
See TEST PREP. Page 7A

JED MOCH/Daily
University of Michigan Chabad's Rabbi Alter Goldstein and his children prepare to bring in Passover by getting rid of all bread products at the Chabad House on Oakland
Avenue. During Passover, Jews celebrate being liberated from slavery in Egypt. They honor their ancestors by abstaining from any food containing yeast for eight days.


FILLING CRISLER ARENA
After tourney run,
ticket sales boom

Athletic Dept. joins Twitter craze

Athletic Department:
1,032 student season
tickets already sold,
470 sold last year
By ERIK TORENBERG
DailyStaffReporter
The men's basketball team's run
to the second round of the NCAA
Tournament could spell record-
setting student ticket sales for
next season, according to Athletic
Department officials.
The department has already sold
1,032 student season tickets for the
2009-2010 season. Last year only
470 student season tickets were
sold according to Marty Bodnar,
associate director of ticketing sales
at the University.
Despite the fact that early dis-
count ticket sales end today at 5

p.m., Bodnar said the boost in sales
could make for a record setting
year.
"If we hit 2,000 (tickets) it might
be the highest since the mid-'90s,"
he said.
Bodnar said the reason for the
surge is quite obvious.
"There is no question that our
team exceeded expectations last
year, making the Tournament for
the first time in11seasons," he said.
"On top of that, with (Manny) Har-
ris and (DeShawn) Sims returning,
we have an exciting team coming
back."
He added that a 20-percent dis-
count on student tickets may also
have contributed to the increase in
sales.
After today, ticket prices will
increase from the discounted rate of
$99 to $125. Basketball tickets at stu-
dent rates willibe offered forlincoming
freshmen studentsstartingin June.
See TICKETS, Page 7A

To get closer with
fans, 13 teams
and Rich Rod
start 'tweeting'
By MATT AARONSON
DailyStaffReporter
Shaq, Diddy, Tony Hawk
and Al Gore do it. So does Pete
Carroll, and your one weird
uncle. It seems like just about
everyone is "tweeting" these
days.
And recently, even the Uni-
versity's Athletic Department
and head football coach Rich
Rodriguez have joined in on
the micro-blogging craze.
In an effort to make pro-
grams more accessible to fans,
the department announced
yesterday the creation of eight
new "Twitters." The new
micro-blogs for eight varsity
sports will accompany five

others that have already been
crying it out for the last few
months.
Twitter.com is an online
service through which users
can send and receive "tweets"
- text-based updates limited
to 140 characters.
In time, the Athletic
Department plans on having
Twitter pages for all 25varsity
sports.
Athletic Director Bill Mar-
tin wrote in a press release
that the move was an effort to
embrace the latest in technol-
ogy.
"This is a communication
instrument that can speak
directly to our fans," he wrote.
"As a department, we need to
be cognizant of social media
communication and this will
be our first official move in
that direction."
As part of the push, Rodri-
guez started his own Twitter
page. Bruce Madej, associate
See TWITTER, Page 7A

UM.CoachRod
The Daily's favorite RichRod tweets as of
Sp.m. yesterday evening. teesaso


Rich we are getting ready for a
scrimmage and I am excited to
watch our guys compete!!
II:1, A, 1 lpr ?thfroii ys'irterfi cd
ts a great day to be a Michigan Wolverine! Watching film of
yesterday's practice. Our team is working hard everyday! GO
03 8AI lr]thfiro iweb
Congratulations to John and the MBBALL teamllH d t
the big dance! See ya in Kansas City!
2:4 z' M.arht h ]ntyif mrr sweb
Story on MGOBLUE.com about pro day. Will Johnson
benched 225 47 times to set a NFL record!nsN
underwayr Victors Night
]:3P a 3th fjj-0rz web

z
F
34 ,.
3.,,'
t'.
Et
z';
(,
E:
s.
'
,
r:
't
;;


MSA fills two exec. slots, one left empty

CAMPUS COMPUTING
University to merge three
information tech. entities

Assembly denies bid
1 for re-nomination
of former general
council Benson
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
After a more than six-hour
Michigan Student Assembly meet-
ing last night, the new executive
board is still missing a student
general counsel.
The recommendations for chief
of staff and treasurer - Ambreen
Sayed and Vishal Bajaj, respective-
ly - were approved by the assem-
bly, but the recommendation for
student general counsel, Michael
Benson, was not.
The student general counsel
serves as MSA's parliamentarian,
advising the assembly on student
government legal affairs like cases
in the Central Student Judiciary.
Benson, who is the former stu-
dent general counsel, wrote in an

Move a response to
requests for more
centrally delivered
IT services
By VANESSA NUNEZ
Daily StaffReporter
In an attempt to keep pace with
the evolving information age, the
University has plans to combine the
three largest Information Technol-
ogy service providers on campus.
The University will combine the
Information Technology Central
Services (ITCS), Michigan Admin-
istrative Information Services
(MAIS) and Information Technol-
ogy Security Services (ITSS) into
one main IT organization. The
merger is a response to requests
from some of the University's

schools and colleges for more cen-
trally delivered IT services.
The merger of the three IT ser-
vices will go into effect by Apr.
20, but the new organization will
probably not be completed until
summer.
The new organization will be
headed by Laura Patterson, the
current associate vice president for
MAIS and ITSS. Patterson will be
responsible for directing the trans-
formation of IT on campus and
will report to the University's chief
financial officer and vice president
for academic affairs and provost.
"The main idea is that we want
to coordinate IT better at the cen-
ter," said John King, Vice Provost
for Academic Information.
King said that merging the Uni-
versity's three existing technology
branches would help create a more
coordinated operation. He added
See IT MERGER, Page 7A

Members of the Michigan Student Assembly discuss executive positions at their weekly meeting last night in the Union.
e-mail that he was disappointed "I'm confident that the newly existing four executives," Benson
the assembly didn't approve his constituted executive board will wrote.
appointment, but said he thinks (achieve) great things together, President Abhishek Mahanti
the new executive board will fare and that whoever ultimately fills wrote in an e-mail that he and
well no matter who is elected stu- the role of student general coun- MSA Vice President Mike Rorro
dent general counsel. sel will serve to (complement) the See MSA, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 55
TOMORROW LU:35

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news idmichigandaily.comand let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Petway named D-League's best defensive player
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS.....
Vol. CXIX, No .25 OPINION.,
Q2009The MichiganDaly ARTS.......
michigondoily.com

................ 2A CLA SSIFIEDS .........,,........... 6A
....................4A SPORTS...............A...8A
5A THE STATEMENT ..................1B

I


2A - Wednesday, April 8, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-704-0508
graca@michigandailycom bugli@michigandailyeom

Food and friendship

Every residence hall room comes fur-
nished with a bed, a dresser, a desk and
a variety of ocher necessities for living
comforcably. But why is every student
who lives in the University's residence
halls required to get the mean plan?
University Housing Spokesman
Peter Logan said the main reason the
requirement exists is because students
don't have the means to cook in their
"It would not be safe for students to
cook in their rooms," he said. "It would
be an incredible fire hazard. Unless
residence halls have that kind of kitch-
en capability, it's very difficult to allow
students to store and prepare foods
safely."
But Logan said there are also less
practical reasons for requiring students
to have a meal plan.
"We believe very much that dining in
the residence halls is a part of the com-
munity experience - part of the univer-

sity and living experience at Michigan,"
he said.
Logan added that eating in the dining
halls is a good way for students to meet
and get to know one another.
"Socially, the dining halls are part of
the community experience that helps
residential students build friendsbips
and become more engaged in the cam-
pus environment," he said.
Logan said he thinks the quality of
food offered in the dining halls is worth
the price of meal plans. Prices for plans
range from $2,245 per semester for the
unlimited plus plan to $1,685 per semes-
ter for the least expensive plans.
"Nutritionally, our dining halls follow
the highest standards of quality in foods
and preparation," he said. "Our chefs
and dietitians create menus that pro-
vide the nutritional value that students
need, more so than many students will
prepare or purchase themselves."
- ELY TWIGGS

CONTACT INFORMATION
NewsroomC
News Tips
torrectins
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Pate
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassitied Sales
OninSales

Office hour: Sun.-Thurs.t11 a.m.- 2a.m
news@icindaiy.com
corectnions@michigaodaiy.com
tothedaity@michigndaity.com
photo@michigandaily.com
arts@ichiandaily.com

sports@michiandaiy.com
display@michigandaily.com
cassaified@michigandaily.com

4

JED MOCH/Daily
Cafeteria-goers wait in lice for a meal at the Hill Doning Center. Stadenns who lice in resi-
dence halls are required to have a weal plan with their housing cntract.

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Man harassed Prescription pills Information on CORRECTIONS
via Facebook swiped from a study abroad "Anatcei
WHERE: 1239 Kipke lunch box WHAT: An information table Ftne, a U prof
WHEN: Monday atnbu 01 on SIT Study Abroad pro- years, dies) sue;

1 yesterday's
Daily (Remem-
uut best: Sidney
rssor for 53
,gested Sidney

a.m. WHERE: 3231 Baxter grams
WHAT: A male caller report- WHEN: Monday at about 12:15 WHE:Itetodal e11:0
ed that an unknown subject p.m. W E:Tdyfo 10
was leaving harassing messag- WHAT: A caller reported that am. to 4:00 p.m.
es on his Pacebook, University his medication was stolen WHERE: Ground Floor,
Police reported. There are no from his lunch box, Universi- Michigan Union
suspects. ty Police reported. The lunch
box was unattended in a car
ithe Hill carport The case 4b - Hao3
Blood pressure is under investigation. 4b - a
machine stolen tournament at
from Hospital $750 in dental the Union
tools taken WHAT: A froeetlav Hao

:er
}

Fine did not serve in World
War IL. He served in the
Navy and was a Lieutenant
Junior Grade.
*An article in Monday's
edition of the Daily (Hash
Bosh reurns for another hit),
incorrectly described the
event as the 37th annual
Hash Bash. It was the 38th
annual Hash Bash.
" An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Sobering
the System) incorrectly iden-
tified the minimum blood
alcohol content to receive a
minor in possession charge
in the state of Michigan as a
.08. It is a.02.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily~com.

1Doctors in Britain believe
that Ritalin might be the
key to combating obe-
sity in adults, the Daily Mail
reported. They believe over-
weight adults are struggling
in part due to undiagnosed
ADHD and that the chemical
imbalance in the brain dimin-
ishes willpower.
2 Agroup of student
veterans spoke to the
Michigan legislature
in favor of a bill that would
extend in-state tuition rates
to veterans of the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3 Asuspected bank robber
was caught after police
saw him with shaving
cream on his ear and areas
of his face that had not been
shaved, The Arizona Republic
reported. The man was trying
to cbange his appearance to
hide from police.

Finance finanea@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
toartney Ratkowiak ManaginEditor ratowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacoh SMiloitZ Manugingsew~s Eior smitovitz@michigaedaity.com
ASSISTNTsoNwWsS EIToRS: MatAaonon, BnjainoS. Chas,,JennSkoller,
RoerttSoave EdioiatPage Edinor soave@michieandaity.com
Andy Reid ManagingeSporntditoe reid@michigaedaity.com
SENISO RTSEDnsIRSNsicoleerba, M~ikeEntei, Dneladn, Chs~i
Herrin,Ruth Linolnt
ASSISTANT SPoOS E0ITOS0RyneoKartje, Iaon Ky on,,ochler, ChrisMszoros,
Alex Prerin~, Colt Roeweig
DavidWatnick MaouiogArtsEitoe watehck@ohhigadaiy.com
SNIORnARTSnEIORS:amnienBlock,BrndonConrai,WitoeeePow
ASSISTANTARTSnEITORS:aoshuea aedewLaien,aeea e Vn goer
Zachary Menner and ehoto@michiganduilynawm
tlifReeder ManugingnhototEditoes
SENIOR POOEDITnORnS:Sidavlh, ChaelVon HsbrLohinen
AnSSSANT eHOTOnoEORS:oMaxCllios, hrisDonbak,Rob igio, SamWolson
AntelatChihl and design@whchigaedaity.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDeeigonEditoes
SENInORnDESIGNEIORS:illarynRute
Jessica osgerchian MagazinetEditoe ogercian@ihigadaiy.com
David Merian Multinedie Editor merian@michigandaiy.com
Katerine Mitchell CopyrChief oitosett@mihigandaiy.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenhner tDispleyAdvreiingSeseManaere
Ryan Basinski Claseifed SaesManager
Marissa GerherOnlioe SaleseManager
Bet English PeoducetionesignManager
Meryl Nultent LayoutnManuger
Vioian Lee and Emily Loveless FinneManagers
TheMiha Diore:ly (ISN074-9is ulishseedoay nthghFidaydrngthealandeiter
teresby studens at he Universiy ,of ihigan.0One opy iseavailable hre ofretoEatlreereo.
Adinl co: rpisma e ickoed up atthe Dalys ffie or$. Susciptiosstortaaineterm
(Septemberthrough Aprilva U.S.emal are $20.Yerrond sbsciptione(FllWinter prngand
lummer isue)are $225. Sbitaionswmuet bepepaid. 1he Mihigan Daily ismemer oftThe
Associate Pres ndThessocitedCollegatePsse.

4

1lo

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 9:30
WHAT: A $3,500 blood pres-
sure monitoring device was
stolen from an office in the
hospital by an unknown sub-
ject, University Police report-
ed. The incident is under
investigation.

WHERE: School of Dentistry
WHEN: Monday at about 3:15
p.m.
WHAT: Unattended dental
tools were taken from an
open room, University Police
reported. Police have no sus-
pects and the case is under
investigation.

3 tournament with a $120
first place prize for the win-
ning team. The second place
team will recieve a $60.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 8 p.m.
to midnight.
WHERE: Billiards and
Games Room, Michigan Union


4

I

I

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
NEW YORK
Despite scolding,
Chrysler unveils
new SUV
It sounds crazy: Just a week after
the White House scolded Chrysler
LLC for relying too much on gas
guzzlers, the company is heading
to a marquee auto show Wednes-
day to unveil a new SUV.
Chrysler insists the Jeep Grand
Cherokee, which clocks in at 20
mpg in its two-wheel-drive ver-
sion and 19 in four-wheel-drive, is
a crowd favorite and a crucial part
of its lineup.
"This is a very important
vehicle for us. It's one of the pri-
mary legs of the Chrysler stool,"
Chrysler spokesman Rick Deneau
said. "Customers have told us they
want this vehicle and that it's the
right size."
The 2011modelis11percent more
fuel efficient than its predecessor,
powered by a cleaner and more
powerful engine. Still, Chrysler's
decision to debut an SUV as its only
new car at the New York Interna-
tional Auto Show seems like odd
timing to say the least.
PLAQUILA, Italy
Aftershocks hit
Italy; survivor found
Strong aftershocks yesterday
sent a fresh wave of fear across
earthquake-shattered central
Italy, and rescue crews pulled a
young woman alive from a col-
lapsed building about 42 hours
after the main quake struck the
mountainous region.
Eleonora Calesini, a 20-year-
old student, was found alive in the
ruins of the five-story building in
central LAquila, said her grandfa-
ther, Renato Calesini, in the sea-
side town of Mondaini.
"She's safe!" he told The Associ-
ated Press, adding that her father
had gone to devastated city in the
snowcapped Apennine mountains
to try to locate the student, who
wears a hearing aid. She report-
edly had an arm injury but was in
good condition otherwise.
The death toll from Italy's
worst earthquake in three de-
cades climbed to 235, with 15 still
missing, civil protection officials
said. The dead included four stu-
dents trapped in the rubble of a
dormitory of the University of
L'Aquila, the ANSA news agency
reported.
WASHINGTON
Biden says Cheney
'dead wrong' on
security issues
Vice President Joe Biden said
Tuesday his predecessor, Dick
Cheney, is "dead wrong" when he
says President Barack Obama's
national security policies are mak-
ingthe United States less safe.
Biden said the exact opposite
is true and added that President
George W. Bush's vice president
was part of a dysfunctional deci-
sion-making system.

"I don't think he is out of line,
but he is dead wrong. ... The last
administration left us in a weaker
posture than we've been any time
since World War II: less regarded
in the world, stretched more thin-
ly than we ever have been in the
past, two wars under way, virtu-
ally no respect in entire parts of
the world," Biden said. "And so
we've been about the business of
repairing and strengthening those.
I guarantee you we are safer today,
our interests are more secure today
than they were any time during the
eight years" of the Bush adminis-
tration.
AUBURN HILLS, Michigan
Leno to offer free
show in Detroit
Jay Leno is offering a money
back guarantee to anyone attend-
ing his standup shows in the
Detroit area.
"Not that I'm the greatest comic
in the world, but it's free," the
comedian said. "If you don't like
 it, you get your money back."
Tickets and parking won't cost
a thing for Leno's performances
yesterday and today at The Pal-
ace of Auburn Hills. The NBA's
Detroit Pistons donated their
home for the event.
The show is for "anyone out of
work in Detroit," Leno said.
"The idea is: 'Come on down.
Forget your troubles ... and meet
other people in your situation,"'
he said.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Wednesday, April 8, 2009- 3A
ermont
legalizes gay
marriage

Measure approved
by a veto override in
the legislature
MONTPELIER, Vt. (AP) - Ver-
mont, the state that invented civil
unions, yesterday became a pioneer
once again as the first state to legal-
ize gay marriage through a legisla-
ture's vote.
The House barely achieved the
votes necessary to override Gov. Jim
Douglas' veto of a bill that will allow
gays and lesbians to marry beginning
September 1. Four states now have
same-sex marriage laws and other
states soon could follow suit.
Bills to allow same-sex marriage
are currently before lawmakers in
New Hampshire, Maine, New York
and New Jersey. The three other
states that currently allow same-sex
marriage - Connecticut, Massachu-
setts and Iowa - each moved to do so
through the courts, not legislatures.
"For a popularly elected legisla-
ture to make this decision is a much
more democratic process" because
lawmakers have to answer to the vot-
ers every other November, said Eric
Davis, a retired Middlebury College
political science professor.
Courts typically deal with arcane
points of constitutional law. While
legislatures debate some of the same

principles, the process may become
much more personal. In Vermont,
some of the most gripping debate
came when gay and lesbian law-
makers took to the House floor last
Thursday and told their ownperson-
al love stories.
Getting gay marriage approved in
a political, rather than purely legal,
forum is a big step, said Boston Uni-
versity law professor Linda McLain,
an expert on family law and policy.
"What may give courage to other
legislatures is that this legislature
managed to do it," she said.
She added that using the civil
rights language of equality - the
measure in Vermont was dubbed the
marriage equality bill - could help
make gay marriage more acceptable
elsewhere.
Opponents said they, too, believe
activists will be emboldened inother
states. The action comes just days
after the Iowa Supreme court ruled
that not permitting gay marriage
there was unconstitutional.
"To the millions of Americans
who care about marriage, we say get
ready: President Obama and Demo-
crats will use Vermont as an excuse
to overturn the bipartisan federal
Defense of Marriage Act," said Brian
Brown, executive director of the
National Organization for Marriage,
which waged a radio campaign
against the measure.

President Barack Obama gestures while speaking to military personnel at Camp Victory in Baghdad, Iraq, yesterday, Inan
announced visit to the country, the president told troops he wants to phase out combat in the region.
Obam a in Baghdad:
Iraq must take control

President tells U.S.
troops it's time to
phase out combat
BAGHDAD (AP) - Flying
unannounced into a still-dan-
gerous war zone, President
Barack Obama told U.S. troops
and Iraqi officials alike yesrday
it is time to phase out America's
combat role in a conflict he
opposed as a candidate and has
vowed to end as commander in
chief.
Iraqis "need to take respon-
sibility for their own coun-
try," Obama told hundreds of
cheering soldiers gathered in
an ornate, marble palace near
Saddam Hussein's former seat
of power.
"You have given Iraq the
opportunity to stand on its own
as a democratic country. That is
an extraordinary achievement,"
he told the troops, saluting
their efforts during six years of
American fighting and losses.
Just hours before he arrived,
a deadly car bomb exploded
in Baghdad, underscoring
the continuing peril despite a
recent decline in violence. But
the mood was festive as Obama
spoke to some 600 troops,
quickly gathered for his visit.
"We love you," someone yelled
from the crowd of photo-snap-
ping men and women in uniform.
"I love you back," respond-
ed the president, repeating a
sequence that played out at
hundreds of campaign stops on
his successful run for the White
House last year.
Obama met with top U.S.
commanders as well as senior
Iraqi leaders on a visit of a little
more than four hours that was
confined to Camp Victory, the
largest U.S. military base in a
war that began in 2003 and has
cost the lives of 4,265 mem-
bers of the U.S. military. Many
thousands more Iraqis have
perished.

A helicopter flight to the heavily
fortified Green Zone a few miles
distant was scrapped, but White
House aides attributed the change
in travel plans to poor weather
rather than security concerns.
After a session with Prime
Minister Nouni al-Maliki, Obanma
said he had "strongly encouraged"
Iraqis to take political steps that
would unite political factions,
including integrating minority
Sunnis into the government and
security forces.
Al-Maliki told reporters, "We
assured the president that all the
progress that has been made in
the security area will continue."
American commanders told
the president the country is expe-
riencing a relatively low level of
violence, although the car bomb
explosion in a Shiite neighbor-
hood of Baghdad was evidence of
a recent resurgence. Obama flew
from Turkey, the next-to-last stop
on an eight-day itinerary that also
included Britain, France, Germa-
ny and the Czech Republic.
Aides said Obama chose to visit
Iraq rather than Afghanistan,
where U.S. troops are also in com-
bat, in part because it was close
to Turkey and in part because of
upcoming Iraqi elections.
In his remarks to the troops,
Obama made no mention of the
Afghanistan conflict - where he
has decided to commit 21,000
additional troops - and it was not
known whether it came up in his
meeting with Gen. Ray Odierno,
the top U.S. commander, and
other officers.
Obama announced plans in
February to withdraw U.S. troops
from Iraq on a 19-month time-
table, although a force as large as
50,000 could remain at the end of
that period to provide counterter-
rorism duties.
He said that for the next year and
a half, the United States will be a
"stalwart partner" tothe Iraqis.And
yet, he said, "they have got to make
political accommodations. They're
going to have to decide that they
want to resolve their differences

through constitutional means and
legal means. They are going to have
to focus on providing government
services that encourage confidence
amongtheir citizens.
"All those things they have to
do. We can't do it for them."
By contrast, little more than a
week ago, the president announced
a revamped Afghanistan strategy
that calls for stamping out the Tali-
ban and al-Qaida and broadening the
missionto include pressure on neigh-
boring Pakistan to root out terrorist
camps in its lawless border regions.
"We spend alotoftime tryingto
get Afghanistan right, but I think
it is important for people to know
that there is still a lot of work to
do here," Obama said shortly after
Air Force One touched down in
the Iraqi capital.
Earlier, before departing Istan-
bul, the president told students,
"Moving the ship of state takes
time." Referring to his long-stand-
ing opposition to the war, he said,
"Now that we're there," the U.S.
troop withdrawal has to be done
"in a careful enough way that we
don't see a collapse into violence."
The military is in the process of
thinning out its presence ahead of
a June 30 deadline under a U.S.-
Iraq agreement negotiated last
year that requires all American
combat troops to leave Iraq's cit-
ies. As that process moves for-
ward, the increase in bombings
and other incidents is creating
concern that extremists may be
regrouping.
While Obama spent much of
the past week overseas grappling
with the worldwide economic cri-
sis and the war in Afghanistan, a
constant theme of the trip was his
determination to turn a new page
in U.S. relationships abroad after
eight years of the Bush adminis-
tration.
Nowhere was that intention
more evident than in Iraq, where
a Bush-ordered invasion in 2003
began as a quick rout of forces
loyal to Saddam Hussein before
gradually turning into a murder-
ous environment for U.S. troops.

Israel tests plan
to shoot down
Iranian missiles

Fears of attack
compounded by
Ahmadinejad's call
for destruction
JERUSALEM (AP) - Israel suc-
cessfully tested an anti-missile sys-
tem designed to protect the country
against Iranian attack, the Defense
Ministry said, perfecting technology
developed in response to failures of
similar systems during the 1991 Gulf
War.
The intercept of a dummy mis-
sile was the 17th test of the Arrow
system, a U.S.-Israeli joint venture.
Israeli defense officials said the
interceptor was an upgraded Arrow
II, designed to counter Iran's Shahab
ballistic missile.
Israel has identified Iran as its
biggest threat, citing the country's
nuclear program and its develop-
ment of long-range ballistic missiles.
Those fears have been compounded
by Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad's repeated calls for the
destruction of the Jewish state.

Israel believes Iran is developing
nuclear weapons that could pose a
threat to its existence. Iran denies
that and says its nuclear work is for
peaceful purposes such as energy
production. Israel has threatened
military action, and Iran has said
it would strike back, warning last
month that Israel's own nuclear
facilities were within missile range.
Iran's Shahab-3 missiles have a
range of up to 1,250 miles (2,000
kilometers), putting Israel well with-
in striking distance. Iranian officials
were not available for comment on
the Israeli test.
Inastatementthe Defense Minis-
try said the interceptor shot down "a
missilesimulatingaballisticthreatin
especially challengingconditions." It
called the test "an important step in
'the development program and the
development of operational abilities
to counter the growingthreat of bal-
listic missiles inthe region."
Defense Minister Ehud Barak
watched Tuesday's intercept from a
military helicopter,the ministrysaid.
According to the Israeli Embassy in
Washington, Pentagon representa-
tives also were present.

Only two months left LSAA9013A Only Kaplan Offers:
Starts:Ap6114th -June 4th Th e Ms er e rp
to prep for the Meets:TueThurs/Sun Ut
kIm pm -4:30pm
V A% 1 q Guaraneed es

June LbAI

Visitkapestlcmo/Isat
or call1-800-KAPTESTL

tTflK or flT
in an Age of Crisis
A Public Meeting
Thursday, April 9 " 7 PM
Speaker: David Walsh,
Arts editor of the World Socialist Web Site
""
Michigan League
Michigan Room
Contact: Be'at the V
isse@umich.edu with the R
www.wsws.org

e AEHEAt8Y UK
R U" " R a


4A - Wednesday, April 8, 2009


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C74C firichigan wily

ROSE

AFFE

E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A duty to veterans
State legislature must pass bill to allow vets in-state tuition
A fter serving their country in the armed forces, some vet-
erans face a tough readjustment to civilian life. These
struggles often translate into a difficulty affording col-
lege. But a proposal under consideration by the Michigan legis-
lature could ease veterans' concerns. The proposal would qualify
U.S. veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for in-state
tuition at Michigan colleges, even if they're not originally state
residents. The bill would give veterans a much-needed break and
counter some of the challenges they face after military service.
The state legislature has a duty to support this cause.

-0
O a
~Y
ws
.

4

14

A playdate with my inner child

Last Tuesday, University student veter-
ans spoke to the Senate in support of the
new proposal. In addition to giving veter-
ans in-state tuition, the proposal, created by
the national organization Student Veterans
of America, would create campus programs
to help veterans acclimate to student life
after spending several years in the military.
Other changes include easing deadlines for
veterans to fill out applications and pay fees
as well as permitting the transfer of more
credits for military training. The goal of
the bill, according to SVA President and Air
Force veteran Derek Blumke, is to ease the
difficult transition from military to civilian
life that veterans often face.
For veterans, reentering the civilian
world after military service can be jar-
ring. They are forced to adapt from a very
structured lifestyle to a more relaxed social
setting. After the active life required in the
military, staring at a blackboard for two
hours can be a challenge. Counseling can
be required to overcome the culture shock
and this bill would help give veterans the
support they need by giving them a tuition
break and creating some helpful programs.
Luckily for the state, helping these vet-
erans won't even cost any extra. That's
because the money to pay for veterans' in-
state tuition costs is provided by the GI Bill,
which stipulates that the federal govern-
ment can pay veterans' tuition. The lack of
a financial burden on the state makes this
proposal an even more appealing change.

Encouraging veterans to enroll at the
University is also valuable because they
bring a kind of diversity that is often over-
looked. This diversity is grounded in the
different experiences and points of view
that veterans offer. Making it easier for
veterans to attend the University broadens
students' understanding and exposes them
to a life that most will probably never expe-
rience themselves.
The University has already shown a
commitment to assisting veterans. In Jan-
uary 2008, the Office of New Student Pro-
grams created a special council devoted
to veterans' affairs. The Student Veterans
Assistance Program aims to help veterans
apply to college and transition to the col-
lege environment. And other universities
around the country also have programs to
help veterans - Ohio State University and
Minnesota State University at Moorhead
both have offices of veterans' affairs simi-
lar to the one at the University of Michi-
gan. These policies are an encouraging sign
that veterans' needs are being addressed
in Michigan, and this new proposal will
expand Michigan's efforts.
The University can certainly do its part
to make this change as smooth as possible,
and passing the proposal will push other
universities to help out, too. This bill would
go a long way toward managing veterans'
needs more responsibly and the state legis-
lature should recognize its importance by
approving it without delay.

As a University student, it may
be dawning on you that you
are evolving into a Real, Live
Adult. Whether
you're almost done
with your educa-
tion or still have
to slough through
grad school, the
reality is that your
childhood is offi-
cially a sentimen-
tal glimmer behind
you. In the next EILEEN
five to ten years, STAHL
you'll likely have
your first real job,
your own bills to
manage, possibly a wedding to plan
and - as the few lingering remnants
of your former hipness dissipate -
even children of your own. Person-
ally, I reacted to this realization by
sprinting to the nearest Toys "R" Us
in the hope I could bury myself in
nostalgia and maybe snag a plastic
dinosaur or two.
I found myself surprisingly dis-
heartened. Rather than the store
consisting of the rows and rows of
magic I remembered from my child-
hood, everythingseemed to be cheap,
commercialized plastic. Boxes of
board games with prominent cartoon
characters slathered all over them
greeted me as I walked in, peppered
by the occasional sexist play set (as
a friend of mine puts it, "Hey, little
girl! You wanna mop, don't you?!").
And I couldn't locate a single plastic
.dinosaur without a brand name or
twelve slathered all over it.
It occurred to me somewhere
between the World Wrestling Enter-
tainment action figures and the eye-
assaulting wall of pinkthatsignals the
pony aisle that I was probably roman-
ticizing my childhood. If I think
hard enough, I can faintly recall the

deluge of toy commercials that over-
whelmed me between cartoons - and
most of the programs themselves had
a line of cheap collectible merchan-
dise. I remember that whenever I was
playing with the latest plastic mon-
strosity, I would cheerfully serenade
my family with the television jingle,
complete with a rushed "Batteries not
included." I even invented my own
commercials for fictional products.
But after an hour or two, I'd promptly
lose interest and the precious item my
parents had paid $19.95 plus tax for
would be banished to the wasteland
of my closet floor.
Despite this, I still think Toys "R"
Us is at fault for lacking childhood
magic. There were toys I adored for
years when I was a child, and they
tended to be the simplest. When I was
five years old, for example, I picked
out a fat stuffed dragon I named
Dragulot. He lacked a television tie-
in or a popular brand name, but he
had a cuddly fat belly and doubled as
a puppet - a promising companion
for an only child inclined to theat-
rics. I imbued him with a personality
and the two of us remained insepara-
ble all the way through grade school,
and (should I be admitting this in a
campus-wide paper?) he'll be moving
in with my boyfriend and I this sum-
mer. When I went to Toys "R" Us, I
found a $300 animatronic dragon
with flashing lights and roaring nois-
es. He did not look cuddly.
Capitalism may not be a demonic
specter that desecrates all it tpuch-
es, but I do think that aggressive
advertising can diminish the worth
of a toy. What a good toy should boil
down to is one that lets kids fulfill
their own creative urges. Children
are easily persuaded - as my devo-
tion to singing jingles in the bath-
tub can attest - and it isn't difficult
to wow them into wanting to buy a

product with a cartoon, bright adver-
tisement or clever song. But the toys
I have the fondest memories of were
ones I picked out myself, with no tie- 4
ins and downplayed brands. With all
the trimmings stripped away, I could
pick a toy that genuinely appealed
to me and my interests. Arts and
crafts booklets, stuffed animals
and nondescript playsets featuring
whatever animal or fantastical era I
What happened
to the great toys
of my childhood?
was enthralled with at the time all
enjoyed many devoted weeks of play.
But if I was merely wooed by a prod-
uct's advertising, I'd find myself los-
ing interest a few hours later when
I realized the colorful world of the
commercial wasn't easily reproduced
by a six-year-old.
Fortunately, there are more low-
key stores out there - like Tree Town
Toys in Briarwood and Mudpuddles
in Kerrytown - that offer the sorts 4
of wondrous doodads I remember
fondly. A lot of them encourage cre-
ativity, but most importantly, they're
simple. The brand names are subtly
indicated for the grown-ups on the
tags, but when a child wants a stuffed
animal, she'll only have to figure out
whether she really wants a teddy 4
bear or a cuddly tiger - not choose
which has the best jingle. It's a good
lesson in learning how to make your
own choices, and that's what grow-
ingup is all about.
- Eileen Stahl can be reached
at efstahl@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
ST O @
T ER STO H EDTOR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@ctUMICH.EDU


Birth control and abortion
provoke difficult questions

they can reasonably choose among the differ-
ent options.
Lea Wojciechowski
LSA junior

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers to be columnists
during the spring and summer semesters. Columnists write 750 words
on a topic of their choice every other week.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

TO THE DAILY:
I've been hearing a lot about birth con- Daily do
trol lately - give us more access to it, make it
cheaper, put comprehensive sex education pro- Of Studoaen
grams in high schools and so forth (Back under
control, 04/02/2009). In response, I'd like to
point out a very simple fact that seems to TO THE DAILY
get lost in the topic of sex, contraception and I recently rea
pregnancy. minor in posses
Every time you have sex, you could get (or alcohol-poisone
make someone else) pregnant. No matter what ing up the systen
precautions you take and no matter how infal- how much long
lible you think birth control methods are, sex nonsense liketh
between a man and a woman can result in preg- Apparently,i
nancy. drinking, if und
Once a woman is pregnant, the birth control and drink exces
argument is irrelevant - the pill or a condom everyone should
certainly won't do anything to undo the preg- do make a right
nancy. insinuate that w
What's a woman to do once she's pregnant? take a seriously
If she feels alone, scared, desperate, unready out of fear ofam
and unable to care for a child, she may feel fault for mainta
forced into an abortion. Most people will say The law nee
that it would be ideal to reduce the number of priorities? Real
abortions. believe that dri
But when conventional birth control meth- in trouble? May
ods fail, does abortion become another form place isn't in the
of birth control - last resort, certainly, but that normalizes
nonetheless a method to get rid of an unwanted ates egregious i
pregnancy? If the Daily
There is a certain danger in making abortion drinking law re
into a method of birth control chosen by scared grownup when
and lonely women. Most women who have an for the actions
abortion feel they have no choice - and if abor- blamingthe "m
tion is the only "choice," it's not a choice.
Give women a choice - give them sup- Adam Ajlouni
port, love, resources and accommodations so LSA senior

esn't address issue
t responsibility
ad the Daily's editorial regarding
ssion amnesty for those who take
d friends to the hospital (Sober-
sm, 04/07/2009). I was wondering
er we are going to have to hear
is from the Daily.
in the magical world of college
derage students consume alcohol
sively to the point of passing out,
d get off scot-free. So two wrongs
t? Then the Daily has the gall to
when underage drinkers refuse to
ill friend to the emergency room
isdemeanor, it's the government's
ining draconian drinking laws.
ds to change instead of students'
lly? Do college students really
nking laws exist just to get them
ybe the change that needs to take
legislation but rather the culture
s dangerous behavior and toler-
rresponsibility.
wants to make an argument for
form, it can start by acting like a
it comes to taking responsibility
of underage drinkers instead of
alevolent establishment."

4

ROBBY SALDAAA I

Ending hate speech on campus

4

This past Friday, as I was walking to my residence hall
and talking to my mother on the phone, a car full of people
drove by. One of them poked his head out of the window
and shouted to me, "Hey, homo!" The car then sped away.
A few hours after this incident, I was in the Michigan
Union with a friend, standing near Mrs. Fields. As I stood
there chatting, someone behind me said the phrase, "That's
so gay!" and walked away.
It gets worse. Last Saturday, as I stood in the brunch line
at the Mosher Jordan residence hall cafeteria, the person
next to me in line said, "Breakfast here is so gay," to a per-
son next to him. When the person to whom he was speak-
ing didn't hear, he repeated, "Breakfast here is so gay." Last
Monday, when I was in South Quad for lunch, a person
yelled, "That's so gay!" to something a friend of his had just
said. Later that evening in South Quad, a person used the
phrase "fucking faggot" as I stood a few feet from him.
In the minutes following the first incident, my reaction
was to laugh at the situation - to laugh at the thought
that someone who did not know me would make assump-
tions about my identity and yell it from a passing car.
But as I walked to my dorm, I became more perturbed.
Questions about my personal safety passed through my
mind. Would those shouted words turn into actions at
some point? I thought about this in the following days as I
heard phrase after phrase that were laden with homopho-
bia and ignorance, and I became increasingly frustrated
and concerned.
For me, homophobic language is nothing new. I have
endured this from family members and strangers alike.
But for some reason, these particular incidences - espe-
cially the fact that for the first time, someone yelled an
epithet at me from a passing car - have eaten at me. Since
the day of the incident, I have worn a purple wristband.
It reads, "Erase Hate" and www.MatthewShepard.org.

It's a wristband that was given out at an event I helped
organize this past October - the Matthew Shepard Vigil.
The purpose of this vigil was twofold. First, to commemo-
rate the lives of LGBT individuals and who were killed
or assaulted simply because of their lifestyle. Second, to
draw attention to the fact that there is neither federal nor
state legislation in 14 states that prohibits anti-LGBT dis-
crimination and violence.
I would be lying if I said that these incidents have not
affected me. They take a toll on me because I, along with
countless others, am their target. I could say that these
instances are indicative of the society in which we live
- a society that condones and in many ways supports
homophobic language. But I've realized something else:
This language is indicative of a climate that exists on this
campus. The message that hate speech is not acceptable
and will not be tolerated is missing on this campus. We
need a strong, public campaign against hate speech at the
University.
Rather than merely be upset and frustrated, I have
decided that something must and can be done. First, I am
urging all of us as community members, as students and,
most importantly, as human beings to challenge incidents
of bias thatwe hear. Second, I willbegin to collaborate with
various Michigan StudentcAssembly committees, Universi-
ty offices and student organizations to start a strong, public
campaign against hate speech. The motto of the campaign
will be "Check Yourself." That means that we should think 4
before we speak and check our personal biases and preju-
dices. Many times, we may not know that what we say can
be hateful, which is why this campaignis aneeded medium
of education. I ask that you all "check yourselves" in your
own speech and be aware of what you say.
Robby Saldana is an LSA sophomore.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.come

Wednesday, April 8, 2009 - 5A

A 'Hymn' of
epic beauty
By JACK PORTER the cost of human violence
Daily Arts Writer The next track, "Burial at
Sea," further probes themes of
"Epic" is an overused word. But disaster and loss. The rumbling
to call Hymn to theimmortal Wind timpanis and twanging bass gui-
anything less than epic would be tar chords add to the atmosphere
an understate- of a tumultuous ocean storm.
ment. Epic is to The songthen segues quietly into
be expected of "Silent Flight, Sleeping Dawn."
any album that Mono Led by a repeating piano melody
stretches seven and mournful cellos, the band
tracks for more Hymntothe performs a maudlin dirge that's
than an hour Immortal Wind simple but powerful.
and features a Temporary "Pure as Snow (Trails of the
full symphony Residence Limited Winter Storm)" signals a rebirth
orchestra.Thank- with its bright, ascending guitar
fully, Mono rose figures and triumphant, crash-
even above these expectations and ing drums. Later, swirling dis-
recorded a landmark post-rock torted guitar riffs seem to reach
opus. skyward and erupt into howling
Like any odyssey, the album feedback, creating the sensation
is rife with sound, fury, blood, of being caught in a fierce bliz-
thunder and everything in zard.
between. Because it's entirely The album's journey comes to
instrumental (like the rest of a close with the two-part suite
the Japanese band's work), the of "The Battle to Heaven" and
album's abstract themes are wide "Everlasting Light" While the

"You can alwaysojust use the backdoor!"

A state of horror

'T]
Coy
rare
ge
The
always
ones,
might
the inc
popular
of r
(or at
imagini
sic hor
"The I
in Con
is very
part of t
The
headlin

he Haunting in occurred in a Connecticut house
not too long ago. While the tech-
nnecticut' is the nique of adding "based on a true
story" to the beginning of a horror
horror flick that movie can result in an overly dra-
matized plot, "Haunting" breaks
ts the mold and creates a genuinely
paranormal experience.
By HANS YADAV The film follows a financially
DailyArts Writer burdened family forced to find a
home close to a major hospital so
scariest horror stories are that the oldest son can receive can-
the true cer treatment. The mother, Sara
which Campbell (Virginia Madsen, "The
explain **7 y Number 23"), finds a place that's
reasingly cheap, close to the hospital and
trend The Haunting spacious enough for the whole fam-
ecreating j onnecicut ily. But, of course, there's a catch
least re- nobody realizes until it's too late.
ing) clas- At Quality16 Surprisingly, the film's greatest
ror tales. and Showcase asset is its plot, and that's what sep-
Haunting Lionsgate/Gold Circle arates "Haunting" from others in its
necticut" genre. Many of the plot details actu-
much a ally make sense, and the characters
that trend. are not victims just to be victims.
movie begins with real The fact the family has no money
es of the strange events that and is forced to pick an abandoned

home to live in isn't just an arbi-
trary fact - it matters. Even the old-
est son's weakened condition (he's
pretty much living with one foot
in the grave) is made an acceptable
justification for his ability to see the
ghosts. Finally, the strange occur-
rences in the house are teasing and
realistic enough to engage audienc-
es. Ultimately, it's the combination
of realistic detail and plausible sce-
narios that make "Haunting" stand
out from similarly styled films.
Horror films are often criticized
for not being scary enough because
movie audiences have become so
desensitizedtthey're almostimpossi-
ble to scare (especially when watch-
ing with others in the room). So
it's not surprising that "Haunting"
employs age-old, cheap scare tactics
- someone's face suddenly appear-
ing out of the dark, for instance - to
jolt the audience from time to time.
Of course, it would have been nice to
see something disturbing in a mind-
fuck sort of way instead of the tradi-

tional swift camera turns. But a film
can only do so much while main-
taining a cohesive plot and a PG-13
rating. Still, it's unfortunate there's
nothing truly horrific or terrifying
throughout the movie.
While acting is generally not
worth discussing in horror mov-
ies, something must be said for Kyle
Gallner ("Gardens of the Night") as
the ailing son. His portrayal ofaboy
who has little chance of survival
but struggles every day for his fam-
ily is marvelous. He's creepy, but in
an appropriate way. Gallner's per-
formance is yet another detail that
makes "Haunting" stand out just a
little bit more from the pack.
"Haunting" isn't perfect, but
it comes closer than many other
horror movies today, boasting a
provocative story, a few scares and
even some decent acting. Though it
may not be remembered for long,
the film contains elements that hor-
ror movies will (hopefully) adopt in
the future.

open to interpretation. Despite
the album's daunting scale, the
band speaks a language anyone
can understand. Mono applies
paint to the canvas in broad
strokes, drawing on familiar
musical archetypes and focus-
ing on establishing an emotional
connection with its audience.
Because of these stylistic deci-
sions, it's easy to agree with the
band's assertion that the songs
on Immortal Wind are "hymns,"
eventhough they sound more like
a film score. Guitars accompany
the other stringed instruments
in the symphony instead of hog-
ging the limelight, and drummer
Yasunori Takada often abstains
from playing at all. Mono's songs
rise and fall on waves of romantic
stringswells, guiding the listener
from moods of quiet contempla-
tion to wild abandon.
"Ashes in the Snow" sets the
stage with its wistful tremolo gui-
tar and somber strings. Cymbal
crashes build mounting tension
in the background, which is then
released with wild rock drum-
ming and distorted guitar riffs
joiningthe orchestra's melancholy
cries. Its placid moments evoke
images of trudging through a
snowy wasteland, while the more
bracing passages seem to lament

A post-rock
landmark.
war-cry of "Heaven" echoes
other tracks on the album, "Ever-
lasting Light" is an achievement
that stands on its own. Beginning
with a haunting piano line, the
piece builds for over six minutes,
finally erupting into a transcen-
dent blast of white heat.
Hymn to the Immortal Wind is
a sonic narrative that details the
escape from the horrors of war
and natural disaster ("Ashes in
the Snow" and its counterpart
"Pure as Snow") to the hopeful
ache of rebirth ("The Battle to
Heaven" and its victory found in
"Everlasting Light"). The album
is most immediately read as a
tale of death and ascension, but
it could be cast just as convinc-
ingly as one of grief and accep-
tance. It's a grand and ambitious
work that should deflect criti-
cism with its condensed roman-
tic fervor and universal appeal.
Its broad themes and repeating
melodies may be simple and sac-
charine, but why burden beauty
with subtlety?

TV REV.E
ABC's 'Motherhood'
is a maternal mess

UGK's raunchy swansong

By RACHEL HANDLER
Daily Arts Writer
"In the Motherhood," ABC's lat-
est sitcom effort, attempts irony, satire
and feigned awkwardness. But instead
of succeeding at any of those things, it
creates genuine awkwardness. Despite
a great cast including Megan Mullally
("Will & Grace"), Jessica St. Clair ("Unit-
ed States of Tara") and
Cheryl Hines ("Curb
Your Enthusiasm"),
the episodes thus far In the
have been laden with
embarrassingly deriv- Motherhood
ative comic material. Thursdays
What's more, a nontra- at y
ditional sitcom format AB .
only makes matters ABC
worse - the lack of
both a laugh track and a studio audience
makes the silences between flat one-lin-
ers almost deafening.
"Motherhood" follows a group of
three matriarchs, each fitting snugly
into her own stereotype. There's divor-
cee Jane (Hines), fully equipped with a
heightened sense of desperation while
trying to get back into the dating world.
There's her younger sister Emily (St.
Clair), an infuriatingly moral mother
with a fantastic sex life and bizarrely
perfect children who enjoy folding laun-
dry. And then there's Rosemary (Mul-
lally), the blas6 and purportedly derisive
one, who's actually just Karen from "Will
and Grace" on sedatives.
In a way, "Motherhood" is just as des-
perate as the recently divorced Jane.
It jumps on what ABC writers must
believe are trendy bandwagon styles in
an attempt to be relevant. The show is
practically throwing itself unabashedly
at the modern, hip mother demograph-
ic, begging to be relatable and fresh.
Efforts to distract from the show's emp-
tiness abound, including an oddly bright
color palette, lots of makeup, countless
sexual innuendos and plenty of pop cul-
ture references. The premiere included
Horatio Sanz ("$NL") as a Hispanic

"manny" (male nanny) who speaks in
whale language, an annoying coworker
(Ken Marino, "Role Models") who does
"Borat" impressions and Rosemary's
"social experiment" that involves faking
pregnancy to get free coffee.
And then there's the writing. Though
the show clearly attempts to thwart the
sitcom curse of the obvious punch line, it
forgets to dodge the equally scene-ruin-
ing phenomenon of the unfunny joke.
"It's just like riding a bicycle - without
the seat," and "Get on it, girl!" serve as
words of wisdom, offered when Jane
finds herself nervous about having sex
again. And when manny Sanz falls off
a roof in a Santa Clause costume (in yet
another hackneyed moment), Rosemary
assures Emily's children, "Don't worry
kids, it's not blood, it's Christmas Juice!"
In a similarly conspicuous move, the
pilot is chock full of "hip" comedians
including Sanz, Marino and Rachael
Harris ("Notes From The Underbelly"),
who flail helplessly in the sea of predict-
able writing. Never before has so much
comic talent seen so little comic mate-
rial. But to be fair, the scenes between
Sanz and Mullally, in which the two con-
spire to further Rosemary's imaginary
Even hip moms
will hate it.
pregnancy, stand alone as the only truly
funny performances.
"Motherhood" is essentially an
ill-advised mishmash of pop culture
shout-outs and forced irreverence that
amounts to no more than its failed
sitcom predecessors. The writers of
"Motherhood" should realize there's no
reason to revive the split-screen phone
call scene or the cheerful montage scene,
especially when accompanied by equally
jovial music. And it looks like there will
be no reason to revive "Motherhood" for
a second season, either.

By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
After more than 15 years of big pimpin',
straight hustling and riding dirty, hip
hop's "trillest" duo UGK
is no more. The 2007
death of rapper Pimp C
(due to a combination of UGK
sleep apnea and a pre-
sumably elephantine UGK4Life
amount of promethaz- Zomba
ine) has forced surviv-
ing group member Bun
B to declare that UGK 4 Life will indeed
be the pair's final album together. It's the
bookend to a long, sporadic career that is
perhaps defined more by popular guest
appearances than the group's own hit-or-
miss catalog.
Largely recorded before Pimp C's
death, UGK 4 Life is no sentimental tribute
record. Actually, there's hardly a whisper
of the late rapper's demise. Instead, the
album offers UGK's typical lyrical fare:
salutes to various chemicals ("Swishas
& Erb"), filthy sexual anecdotes ("Harry
Asshole") and general hip-hop thuggery
(pretty much the whole record). That's a
good move - the refusal to get sappy and
mawkish turns out to be the most fitting
tribute of all, considering Pimp C's long
devotion to keeping it real.
If only the album's quality was as con-
sistent as UGK's uncompromising credos.

With the familiar balance of laid back,
bass-heavy West Coast production and
Dirty South cadence, the pair doesn't real-
ly venture outside its musical precedents.
The most notable feature of the beats is
the prominent use of guitar. There's more
six-string on the album than on most
indie rock releases these days, resulting
in an organic, funky vibe not heard since
Death Row's heyday in the mid-'90s. But
for every solid song, there seems to be an
equally abominable counter-track.
First, the abysmal: UGK pays homage
to the bouncy, synth-heavy type of club
banger exemplified by Usher's "Love In
This Club" and T.I's "Whatever You Like"
by basically ripping them off. Take the
vocals off 4 Life's "Used to Be" and you're
left only with the production's compara-
tive awfulness to distinguish it from its
precursors. Where T.I. and Usher treated
listeners to crowd-pleasing choruses on
their hits, UGK neglected to supply the
requisite hook. Even more baffling, the
duo extends the already played-out con-
cept to a mind-numbing five and a half
minutes, making the dead-on-arrival track
even worse.
Similarly offensive is "Harry Asshole,"
which, I guess, the less said, the better
("When she pops it from the back /you see
that hairy asshole"). The title pretty much
covers it. The Akon-supported "Hard as
Hell" is less fetishistic but just as graphic.
It's a standard-issue Akon production, and

the group's prurient verses do little to save
it from the dregs of banality.
Still, the album's not without its saving
graces. Arguably the strongest cut, "She
Luv It" boasts an infectious, carefree aura
and a classic hip-hop chorus. UGK enlist
the help of Ron Isley on "The Pimp and
The Bun," the album's most soulful track
by far. The combination of seductive gui-
It has a song called
'Harry Asshole.'
Enough said.
tar lines and Isley's silky vocals makes for
a track that transcends the album's gen-
eral air of stifling mediocrity.
UGK's final album is assuredly not the
group's best (that distinction could go to
either 2007's double-disc Underground
Kingz or 1996's Ridin' Dirty). Apart from a
few stellar standouts, a couple fetid mis-
steps and some cringe-worthy moments
in which Pimp C portentously mentions
cough syrup (his death drink), UGK 4 Life
rarely elicits any strong feelings at all.
And as for the memory of Pimp C, a man
renowned for uncouth expression and lyr-
ical bombast, listener apathy could be the
biggest disservice of all.


4

6A - Wednesday, April 8, 2009
the michigan daily

(IFIE

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

pafrking
025
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
060
1! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
I bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT on remain-
ing spaces at 4 Eleven Lofts -
734.99.4400 4elevenlofis.com
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Fall 09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Offstreet prkg, Indry, water
mcl. 734.223.7777.
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

the
A126
c'aed and
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapamens.net
or Visit uS at
1700 Geddes AVe.
331 CATHERINE
- 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
" Kerrytown! --need we say more?!?!
" Or separate 3-bdrm apts; we'll accom-
modate you!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagment.com
331 PACKARD
" 2-bedroom May - May!
 6-edroot private entrance and porch!
" (734) 668-1100
* www.varsitymanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson While Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
418 E. WASHINGTON
- Grad Students Galore!
, Mature, quiet study environment!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com

4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.tjmsprop.com 769-7025.
*3 BDRM HOUSE, free prkg. & ldry.,
close to catmpus, 734-649-7571.
*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
Fall 09. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
.2096 or visit www.um-liousing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. fun. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadiun
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parkingrrevenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
1001 S. FOREST
- Great Campus Location!
- Large 2-bedrooms for 2 - 4 people!
' (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagment.com
1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
* Great Old West Side location!
* Large 1 & 2-bedrooms!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
1346 GEDDES
- 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
- Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
" (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.cotn
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-S1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagementecom
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com


AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some iu-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon travis@sbeglobal.net
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.eom
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
HOUSE OR ROOMS for mant. 2 bat,
furnished, side drive parking, excellent
location, 248-709-9981.
Suio & 1
ower Plaza Conde:u omicb& tnumxi
Call Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530

GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
,-------------- -- .-- ,
WilsonWhite
I MAN A G EMENT
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
will waive the application fee and reduce
security deposit to one months rent
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
I www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
L -- - - - - - -- ''
Rooms, studios, and I- to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!

IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fail 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Studeut ausing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Reduced Rates
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
511 E.Hoover
2 Bedraoome
909 Church
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400

HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week- To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
orgaization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
2009 SUMMER/FALL INTERNSHIP
Beer Distributor located in Ypsilanti,
covering territories in Washtenaw, Liv-
ingston, Western Wayne and Monroe
Counties. Looking for a hard working
Business Student, must be 21 and have
a car. Flexible hours, evenings and
weekends especially during Football -
Hockey Season. Fun, hands-on experi-
ence in Sales, Special Events and Mar-
keting. Apply in person at D&W, Inc.
3003 William St. Ypsilanti. 734-480-
4012.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking In hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
BORDERLINE PERSONALITY
DISORDER Healthy, right-handed
women with a diagnosis of Borderline
Personality Disorder needed for a study
of stress and emotions, Study partici-
pants will have 1 fMRI and 2 PET
scans along with psychological evalua-
tions. Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580
IRBMED #2003-0663

4

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarboranartments.net

4

7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850 EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
1220 Prospect $3,850 needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
334 Catherine $3,850 being a mystery shopper. No experi-
6 Bedroom House ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease) FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
4 Bedroom Houses pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
1116 Packard $2,300 telefund.umich.eduor 763.4400.
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, April 8, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 "Gil Blas" novelist 47 Collection
1 Summonnthe 1 Scow load 37 Was released agencyconcerns
genie 2 Firstplanet 38 Not -_ many 48 "It won't be long"
4 Stacywho discovered using words 49 Gas rating
played Mike a telescope 39 One who may 50 Get riled
Hammer 3 Weightlifter's converse in Erse 52 Dartboard setting
9 Fischer man? pride 40 Failed to meetas 54 Pastoral poems
13 Greek goddess 4 Casey who planned 57 Sleeping Beauty
ofndiscord provided Shaggy's 41 Befuddle awakener
15 Parcel out voice in TV's 45 "The Storyof __": 60 Scriptural ship
16 Pentathlon "Scooby-Doo" 1975 Isabelle 61 Debtor's pledge
event 5 Bugling grazer Adjani film 62 Disapproving word
17 Almanac tidbit 6 See 44-Across
18 "Show me" 7 Common HMO ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
state? requirements
20 Anxioustfeeling 8 URL starter D O I N G O B A M A A V A
22 Car loan letters 9 Push-up muscle E N N U I P I L A F B E N
23 Lunched or 10 They'reabuzz F L A B B E R G A S T C R Y
brunched with activity J A R E LAM CAP R A
24 Empire state? 11 Gene Autrytfilm A T O M I H O P L U N G
27 Painful areas 12 Luthorand MEW I N G A L B U N D Y
29 City near Bruiniuc, In
Dusseldorf Superman L O I TER E R C A M
30 Bringing upthe 14Unsettling look B L A B B E R M O U T H S
rear 19 Treasury Dept. T A U E L E G A N CIE
32 A unicycle has arm W I N S L E T T E N H U T
one 21Decliningfrom A L K A H A Z Y T A S E
33 Optimist's credo old age O H Y E S M E N D M E T
35 "Men in Black" 25/Jai V U E C L A B B E R G I R L
extras 26 Sicilian pastry A T A H O V E R A L L I E
37 Volunteer state? 28 Elevator man L S D A M OLD Y
40 Broadway 31 Gas holder
opening? 34 Movie excerpt xwordeditor@aol.com 04/07/09
42 Cork sources 1 2 3 4 8 5lttt910 11 12
43 Oodles
44 With 6-Down, it's 13 14 1s 1
bitter" in
England 1 181
46 Franisco's 2
farewell
51 Leadingthepack 24 s at 272
53 Beehive sate?
55 Not working 29 o a1 au
56 Instrument 33 34 3
sometimes made
from koa wood at s as
58 Campaign
contest 4a 4142
59 Granite state? a344 as 45 47 49 4s so
03 Chairlift
predecessor, at 51 s2 a s4
many resos
04 Netizen, e.g. 55 B5 5t 5s
65 East Asian
Capital SO 6t1 1 2 853
66 Trig ratio 84 3 B5
07 'Sneaked"'look
On Turns (aft! 87 68 5
69 Media mogul
Turner ayPatrickJorda"4
(c)200T'ribune Media Services, Inc.

515 & 521 Walnut
- CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
- I & 2 bdrms of all shapes and sizes!
- (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
" Just off West Quad!
" Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
" (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only I mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
$$REDUCED RATES$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
848 TAPPAN
e ON Central Campus near B School!
e Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy 1-bedroom!
* (734) 668-1100
* www.varsitymanagement.com
917 PACKARD
- Business & Law School so close!
" Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
Businss andLawStudents
Varshv lat
reattPlcsli
SrsIAraaetal r
Call dvfir a mual tnrl

Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May '09 to August'09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com

PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
YOUTH ADVISOR JOB Posting-
Temple Beth Emeth seeks part-time
Youth Advisor to begin September,
2009. About 10 hours per week. Over-
see 3 youth groups. Experience in
NFTY is preferred. Salary commensu-
rate with experience. Must be available
for full-weekend retreats 5 times per
year. Please send emails of inquiry,
plus resume, to Cantor Rose: cantoran-
nie@gmail.com. or call 665-4744.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

4

4

4

NATIVE SPANISH SPEAKING
babysitter needed May through August
part-time. Call 734-754-1145.
PART-TIME ITALIAN speaking
babysitter needed for 7 year old child.
email: mamarc@comcast.net

4

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am One business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per linefor the first issue and $1.75 per line for each additional
consoeutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts areavailable- contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizationat ,non-business adsonly)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
* We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call oneofuour AccountExecutives

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, April 8, 2009 - 7A

Stimulus to
give boost to
food industry

Mich. communities
with food processing
companies could get
$9 million
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - An
upcoming wave of federal stimulus
spending in Michigan likely will
include some help for Michigan's
food processing industry.
Communities with food process-
ing companies may get a combined
$9 million in community develop-
ment block grants through a fed-
eral stimulus spending bill Gov.
Jennifer Granholm signed this
week and announced Tuesday. The
grant money to improve water sys-
tems may also serve as an example
of how some stimulus money will
flow to smaller Michigan commu-
nities.
The bill covers about $1.9 bil-
lion for a wide variety of programs
including education, job training
and public safety.
TWITTER
From Page A
athletic director for communica-
tions, insists that while Rodriguez
was "getting some help to start,"
the coach is now doing "90 percent
of it on his own with his Black-
berry."
Madej said the Twitter pages
will help fans better follow their
favorite sports.
"It's an easy, efficient way to keep
a segmented part of your fan base
following the sport that they want
to follow," he said.
Those with Twitter accounts can
sign up as a "follower" of a sport, to
receive live updates on a computer,
cell phone or PDA.
"The idea is simply to help indi-
viduals follow the Michigan sport
of their choice in an ever-changing,
new-media world," Madej said.
"Social networking is the new-
media world."
TICKETS
From Page1A
Bodnar said the boost in ticket
sales is good news for the team, too,
as having a full arena helps out the
players.
"Our goal is to fill those bleachers
up, because that creates a game day
atmosphere for our players," he said.
"We're on our way to filling those
bleachers up for each and every game
and we're excited about that."
LSA Freshman Brett Smith, is
one of many students already excit-
ed for the upcoming season.
MSA
From Page 1A
will make a new recommendation
for student general counsel because
Benson wasn't approved for the
position.
"Since Benson wasn't chosen,
we're opening up applications
again to all students, and we'll be
holding interviews and going for-
ward with another nomination
next week that we hope will (be)
approved by the assembly," Mah-
anti wrote.
Though his appointment as
student general counsel was not

approved, Benson was elected as
the chair of the Rules and Elec-
tions Committee, which is not an
executive board position.
"You don't need a title to make
a difference," Benson said in the
e-mail. "And I plan to live by that
motto to ensure that the student
body receives the best advocacy
possible."
Mahanti wrote in the e-mail
that though Benson is a "valuable
anchor ofknowledge on the assem-
bly," he doesn't consider the rejec-
tion of his appointment a negative.
"I'm not completely disappoint-
ed that Benson was declined,"
Mahanti wrote. "It demonstrates a
strength of MSA's checks and bal-
ances and shows that the assembly
is attentive of who is leading the
organization."
After the MSA president and
vice president are elected by a
campus-wide student vote, the
elected executives make rec-
ommendations for the other
executive positions. These rec-
ommendations must be approved
by a majority of the assembly in a
secret ballot.
Aftereachexecutive recommen-
dation is announced, if there is an
objection to the person's appoint-
ment, time is allotted for represen-

Recipients have not been final-
ized for the community develop-
ment block grants, which must be
approved by the Michigan Strate-
gic Fund board. The money itself,
in many cases, won't be enough
to fully pay for needed water or
wastewater system upgrades.
But examples of potential proj-
ects that eventually could benefit
from the money includea Burnette
Foods Inc. facility in Charlevoix
County and a possible milk pro-
cessing operation that is under dis-
cussion in Ottawa County. Those
projects are not listed in the bill
signed by Granholm, but they were
listed on a supplemental request
detail provided to lawmakers by
her administration.
It was not clear yesterday when
final approval will be made.
"The stimulus package was
intended to put the money to work
ASAP, and we certainly will be
workingto make that happen," said
Michael Shore, a spokesman with
the Michigan Economic Develop-
ment Corp.
The Twitter pages will feature
casual updates about things like
scheduling changes. For example,
a tweet on the rowing team's page
on Friday read "Too windy to race
in Indiana. We are delayed until
tomorrow. Racing will begin at 9
a.m. There will still be afternoon
racing as well."
Pieces of in-game action will be
tweeted too. On Sunday, an update
from the baseball Twitter read,
"Wolverines score twice in the
fourth ... we are tied again, 4-4."
Matt Trevor, the Athletic Depart-
ment assistant director of media
relations, started tweeting for the
ice hockey and women's rowing
teams in February. He said he has
enjoyed it so far.
He added that Twitter's biggest
advantage is the 140-character
limit and the brevity it forces.
"It just fills in some of the gaps
between writing a full press release
and getting out some interesting
information," he said.
Smith didn't get tickets last sea-
son, but he said he couldn't pass up
the opportunity this year.
"I really look forward to what
our team is looking like next year,"
he said. "I really think that Coach
(John) Beilein has something going
for him and I'm glad to be a part of
it."
LSA senior Matt Sever, who is
attending the University for graduate
school in the fall, said he has plans to
buy hisbasketball ticketsotoday.
"It looks like we're going to be
even better this year," he said. "Our
program is on the right track - it's
terrific."
tatives to ask the candidate up to
six questions.
There were objections to each
recommended executive member,
but the questions directed toward
Benson were about specific issues
representatives took with his
actions in his previous term.
For example, many represen-
tatives took issue with Benson's
lack of follow through on longer-
term projects like updating MSA's
website. Questions directed to
the other two recommended
executives touched more on their
managerial styles and past expe-
riences.
The new chief of staff, Sayed,
said she hopes to guide the assem-
bly in becoming more efficient in

the future.
"I would love to have an assem-
bly by the end of this year where
every representative and every
chair can honestly say that they
made progress from a project that
they had right from the start," she
said. "And that essentially means
that the MSA as a whole is making
progress, which is something that
I would like to see, and something
I think the whole campus needs to
see."
Bajaj, who served as the trea-
surer for the Indian American
Student Association last year, said
he thinks his experience funding a
student organization will help him
in his new position as MSA trea-
surer.
"I'll bring an outside perspec-
tive. I think a lot of the ineffi-
ciencies in funding have been
continued for the past couple of
years just because that's the way
things have been done," he said.
"But I've become an expert at mas-
tering the system, so I know how
to cater it most effectively to stu-
dent organizations."
MSA also held elections for 26
committee and commission chairs
and vice-chairs last night.

JAVIER GANEAO/A
Rep. Bobby Rush, D- lIl., speaks during a news conference in Havana, yesterday. Cuba's President Raul Castro met with six visiting members of the Congressional Black Caucus.
In Cuba, Congressional Black
Caucus reps meet with Castro

Cuban ruler's first
meeting with U.S.
officials since 2006
HAVANA (AP) - Signaling its
willingness to discuss improved
relations with the U.S., Cuba yes-
terday granted three visitingmem-
bers of the Congressional Black
Caucus the first meeting with Fidel
Castro by American officials since
he fell ill in 2006.
Caucus leader Rep. Barbara Lee,
D-Calif., said she found Castro
"very healthy, very energetic, very
clear thinking" during his nearly
two-hour session with the lawmak-
ers. She said caucus members also
visited his home and met his wife.
The surprise encounter came a
TEST PREP
From Page 1A
Admissions to geta leg up.
While the rest of the world
may be hurting on account of the
economy, officials at Princeton
and Kaplan report that business is
booming.
Nick Lysaght, the marketing
manager at Princeton Review in
Ann Arbor said current economic
conditions are beneficial to Princ-
eton's enrollment rates.
"Obviously since the economy
is not doing so hot right now and
jobs are hard to come by, we are
seeing a lot of people choosing to
go back to school when theywould
have in the past gone straight to
the job market," Lysaght said.
Typically, courses at Princeton
and Kaplan, which both have
locations in Ann Arbor, run for
about $1,000 to $2,000 and offer
several classes for students to
choose.
According to Lysaght, enroll-
ment rates are up between 10
and 20 percent this year for all of
Princeton's graduate school prep
classes.
Kaplan enrollment rates for the
LSAT, GMAT and GRE programs
are also increasing, according to
Priya Dasgupta, the director of
graduate programs for Kaplan.
"Since the beginning of the
financial crisis starting in Sep-
tember, we've seen double digit
increases in interest in our busi-
ness, law and graduate test prep
courses for the GMAT, LSAT and
GRE," she said.
Dasgupta explained that good
early indicators of increased
enrollment rates were the hoards
of students at Kaplan's free infor-
mational events and the scores of
students who registered to take
Kaplan's free practice tests.
"During an economic down-
turn, many students will reassess
their career paths," she said. "This
is a great opportunity for people
to increase their education and to
ride out the storm."
But at some universities, high-
priced courses at commercial test
preparation companies are not
the only option. For example, the
University of Wisconsin at Madi-
son offers an MCAT course for
$675.
IT MERGER
From Page 1A
that University officials have con-

sidered combining the organiza-
tions for more than a year.
He also hopes the merger will
help the University to "explore
much more aggressively how to
make information more available
on mobile phones, such as iPhones
and Blackberries."
Accordingto apress release, fac-
ulty, researchers, and academic IT
professionals will work together to
provide input for the merger pro-

day after the full delegation of six
representatives spentrmore than four
hours talking privately with Cuban
President Raul Castro, his first
encounter with U.S. officials since
formally replacing his brother as
head of state nearly14 months ago.
And it comes as Washington
discusses whether to warm up
long-chilly relations with Cuba.
President Barack Obama has
ordered an assessment of U.S. pol-
icy toward the communist nation
and some members of Congress
are pushing to lift a ban on Ameri-
cans visiting the island.
"We believe it is time to open
dialogue and discussion with
Cuba," Lee told a news conference
in Washington upon the caucus
members' return. "Cubans do want
dialogue. They do want talks. They
Despite its plethora of resources,
classrooms and graduate students
who just aced these tests, Universi-
ty officials say there are no plans to
add any more test prep courses to
the LSAT Familiarization Course
currently offered.
While the University's Career
Center website and advisers offer
information and advice to stu-
dents interested in learning about
the application process for gradu-
ate school, there is an absence of
University programs that instruct
students on how totake the exami-
nations.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said, "the Uni-
versity has never offered test-
preparatory services for LSAT,
MCAT, GMAT or similar stan-
dardized tests, because that level
of instruction falls outside the
University's mission and custom-
ary roll."
In response to the lack of Uni-
versity prep courses, Mariella
Mecozzi, senior assistant director
of pre-professional services at The
Career Center, said that a few years
ago the LSA Student Government
approached The Career Center
to create a program for graduate
examination prep services.
The result of their collaboration
was the one preparation course
cateringto the LSAT exam.
Mecozzi said The Career Cen-
ter does not offer an MCAT class
because the nature of the test is
too specific for one generalized
course.
Instead, The Career Center
website offers the following advice
to students planning on taking the
MCAT: "Closer to the date of the
test, you may wish to join a study
group in preparation for the exam
or contact a test preparation orga-
nization."
Mecozzi added that students
have not confronted The Career
Center with a demand for GMAT
or GRE prep courses.
Around the country, few colleg-
es use the resources and personnel
on campus to offer a low-cost alter-
native to high-priced exam prep
courses.
Though the University of Wis-
consin offers oan MCAT course to
students, they are advised to con-
sider it as a part of their normal
courseload. According to the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin's website, stu-
cess.
"This action will change the way
(IT personnel) operate and inter-
act with the schools and colleges,"
Patterson wrote in ane-mail inter-
view. She added that the schools

and colleges "will be free to rede-
ploy their resources towards the
unique needs of their discipline
and students."
Patterson wrote in the e-mail
that the biggest benefactors of the
change will be faculty, staff and
students and added that the goal
of the merger will be to enable
the University to "expand their
research capability, connect in new

do want normal relations."
Lee said the group would pres-
ent its findings to Speaker Nancy
Pelosi, D.-Calif, and White House
and State Department officials.
Rep. Laura Richardson,
D-Calif, who also met Fidel with
Rep. Bobby Rush, D-Ill., said Cas-
tro "looked directly into our eyes"
and asked how Cuba could help
Obama in his efforts to change the
course of U.S. foreign policy. Rich-
ardson said she had the impression
that 82-year-old Fidel wants to see
changes in U.S.-Cuba relations in
his lifetime.
Fidel Castro has not been seen in
public since undergoing emergen-
cy intestinal surgery in July 2006
and it was his first meeting in sev-
eral years with American officials.
Although he gave up his presidential

duties after becomingill, heremains
an influential force in Cuba.
Among the last U.S. officials to
see him face-to-face were state
governors visiting the island sepa-
rately on farm trade missions in
2005: Dave Heineman of Nebraska
and Kathleen Blanco of Louisiana.
Lee's group was in Cuba five
days on a trip meant to encour-
age dialogue between the United
States and Cuba.
Jeffrey Davidow, the White
Houseadviser for this month's Sum-
mit of the Americas, which Obama
will attend, says the U.S. president
has no plans to lift the 47-year-old
trade embargo against Cuba. But
he says Obama will soon ease travel
and financial restrictions affect-
ing the island as his administration
reviews its Cuban policy.

dents are expected to have regular based in Washington D.C.
attendance and to treat the course one of the top reasons cited by
like any 3 to 4 credit class. students for seeking outside help,
Susan Nelson, a pre-health according to the Hatchet, was lim-
advisor at The University of Wis- ited assistance from GW as well as
consin, explained that 32 students the desire to excel.
are accepted into the course and The University of Texas at San
meet two times a week from Octo- Antonio offers a Summer Law
ber through April. She said medi- School Preparation Academy, cre-
cal school or Ph.D. students with ated to boost the number of its
experience in teaching are hired students admitted to law school.
for the class. Interested students submit appli-
Nelson said that they "generally cations to gain access to the pro-
have a waiting list of students hop- gram.
ing to get in, but it is a fairly small Mecozzi said a course is not
course given the size of the overall always necessary to achieve opti-
pre-med population at UW-Madi- mal performance on graduate
son." entrance exams. She said as long
She said the University of Wis- as students set aside time everyday
consin does not provide prep to study on their own and review
courses for other graduate school old exams that are available to the
entry exams. Nelson added that public, an expensive preparation
many students register in commer- course is expendable.
cial prep courses or online courses Huntsman, who said she felt
instead. that additional preparation was
Here at the University of Michi- necessary, eventually enrolled in a
gan, the LSAT Familiarization Kaplan LSAT course.
Course offeredby The Career Cen- "I would tell someone to ask
ter is compiled of eight sessions themselves if they are really com-
and costs $50, said Mecozzi. Each mitted to studying hard-core for a
semester there are one or two see- month by themselves and if they
tions of 25 students each. can't, I would definitely recom-
Mecozzisaid the course includes mend taking the (Kaplan or Princ-
an overview on the law school eton) class. It's really down to
application process, lessons on the personal preference," Huntsman
different sections of the exam and said.
a final practice test to evaluate stu- Huntsman said that despite
dents' progress. the hefty cost of her Kaplan class,
She said students who have the tremendous amount of help-
taken the course have been satis- ful resources she received made it
fied with their results. worth the price.
"They recognize that it's an "I got four huge books of prac-
unbelievable bargain, so everyone tice questions and tests and online
recognizes the value of the initia- access to every old LSAT test pos-
tive," Mecozzi said. sible," Huntsman said. She added
She said students do complain that the Kaplan class included "in-
that the course is not long enough, class activities, things online and
but added that test preparation is four diagnostic tests."
not one of The Career Center's core Huntsman said a major differ-
goals. ence between The Career Center's
"We don't want to run a full- Familiarization Course and the
blown prep course," Mecozzi said. Kaplan class she took was that at
"We just want to give students Kaplan, her instructor had much
a good sense of what the test is more teaching expertise than the
about." law student who taughtThe Career
Mecozzi said she does not fore- Center's class.
see an expansion in graduate , For students who do not have
school prep course services in the the financial means to pay for The
near future. Career Center's LSAT Familiariza-
According to The GW Hatchet tion Course, Mecozzi said that a
- George Washington University's scholarship is available. ForKaplan
student newspaper, many stu- and Princeton courses, students
dents are seeking LSAT prep from can apply to qualify for financial
private tutors like Jefferson Prep assistance to help cover the $1,000
and Mentor Test Prep, a company to $2,000 cost.

ways and improve IT support and
services such as security and stor-
age."
Though students won't see any
difference in the services - they
will still be able to go to the same
places for help and the computer
sites will still run the same - Pat-
terson said there will be many ben-
efits from the merger.
"In the future, this move will
better position us to provide the
media-rich experience expected
by today's students and offer new
services such as mobile comput-
ing," Patterson wrote.
She added that any cost efficien-

cies gained from the merger would
be redirected toward building the
University's "cyber infrastruc-
ture."
"Most importantly, we want to
ensure that we offer our faculty
and researchers the most techno-
logically sophisticated services
and infrastructure possible, and
our students the highest quality
educational and learning environ-
ment," Patterson said.
One area the new organization
will target, she added, will be to
support the "enormous biologi-
cal databases needed for human
genome sequencing."


4

8A - Wednesday, April 8, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Young QBs improve off field

0

Flag football roster,
additional spring
game promotions
announced yesterday
By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
One of Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez's favorite ways to
describe early enrollee quarter-
back Tate Forcier is as a "gym rat".
But Forcier said last week that he
is just now beginning to notice his
improved strength.
Before com-
ing to Ann Arbor, NOTEBOOK
he said his father
advised him not to lift weights on
his own in order to avoid improper
training.
Under Director of Strength and
Conditioning Mike Barwis, that's
no longer an issue.
"Coming here, you're lifting a
45-plate on each side - it's kind of
pathetic," Forcier said last week.
"(Barwis has) gotten me a lot stron-
ger. You can just tell when you're
running a 40 and everything - you
feel different."
Forcier's work ethic has extend-
ed to his attitude toward the spring
game. Rodriguez said yesterday the
quarterback has "been beggingto be
a live jersey," meaning he can be hit
duringthe scrimmage.
Fans are unlikely to see Forcier
without the red numbers on his
jersey on Saturday, though. The
Wolverines have just two healthy
quarterbacks on the spring roster
after redshirt junior Nick Sheri-
dan's recent leg injury, and they can't
afford to lose another. Rodriguez said
Sheridan is expected to be healthy by
the start of summer workouts.
Sheridan's return will coincide
with incoming freshman quarter-
back Denard Robinson's practice
debut. Rodriguez said quarterbacks
coach Rod Smith has talked with
Robinson a couple of times per week
during the spring,, though teaching
the offense has been "hard to do over
the phone."
As Forcier has been making news
for his progress and Sheridan for his
injury, Robinson has been grabbing
headlines in a different state and
sport.
On Apr. 1, the Florida native ran
the fastest high school time in the
countryinthe100-meter dash (10.28
seconds), according to the South
Florida Sun-Sentinel. He shattered

What's behind
Blue's struggles?

the previous fastest high school time
this season (10.39 seconds).
Robinson's remarks to the Miami
Herald following a race less than a
week before he set the record reflect
exactly what Rodriguez and the
coaching staff should want to hear
from a future Michigan quarterback
- a relentless desire to improve.
"I was kind of disappointed in
myself to run a 10.44, but I will
accept that," Robinson told the Her-
ald on Mar. 29, when he set the sec-
ond-fastest time in the nation at the
time. "I was trying to run a 10.3, but
there was strong wind. I'm working
harder on it and expect to hit a 10.3
by states."
He achieved his goal faster than
expected, and Rodriguez's words
were consistent with Robinson's
accomplishments when the coach
said yesterday that Robinson is a
"sharp guy" who learns fast.
"Some guys are track guys and
some are football guys, but you want
the guys that can translate that speed
and he's fast on the field - that's why
we signed him," Rodriguez said.
THE MARKETING BLITZ
CONTINUES: With the 38-member
alumni flag football game ros-
ter tentatively set yesterday, the
Michigan Athletic Department also
announced three new additions
to the spring game festivities in an
attempt to attract 40,000 fans to
Saturday's game.
Two Michigan studentswill have
the opportunity to kick field goals
for prizes, and 40 students will hold
the "Go Blue - M Club Supports
You" banner before the start of the
game. In addition, a pregame cer-
emony will honor alums who played
in last year's Super Bowl between
the Pittsburgh Steelers and Arizona
Cardinals.
The flag football game roster,
which includes 14 former NFL play-
ers, features Markus Curry (2002-
04), Scott Dreisbach (1995-98), Rick
Leach (1975-78), Aaron Shea (1996-
99) and Anthony Thomas (1997-
2000).
Former wide receiver Ron Bel-
lamy (1999-2002), who will be par-
ticipating in the alumni game, said
at yesterday's practice that the buzz
surroundingthis year's spring game
is already different from when he
was a Wolverine.
"I like the marketing idea, help-
ing get the fans involved in the
game, let them see what the players
go through," Bellamy said. "Every
fan is interested in that, and I think
that's important to keep the inter-
est in the game. Michigan football

Freshman Tate Forcier has been called a "gym rat" frequently by the coaching staff.

is going to sell itself, but I think it's
special that you're allowingthe fans
to be a big part of it."
STAND IN LINE: Yesterday was
the first of the Wolverines' six open
spring practices held indoors. But
the flurries, biting wind and mid-
30 degree temperatures didn't stop
the offensive and defensive linemen
from running position drills outside
on the turf.
And though the linemen were
the only ones working on the snowy
field, the offensive line was looking
pretty cramped for space.
This year's line provides plenty
more options than last, and Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez has
consistently said the team could
potentially boast 10 solid offensive
linemen this season. Redshirt fresh-
men Ricky Barnum, Rocko Khoury
and Patrick Omameh traveled with
the Wolverines last year, and all
three were almost ready to play as
true freshmen. Rodriguez said on
Mar. 15 that redshirt junior Steve
Schilling has been one of the best
performers during spring ball, an
accomplishment that isn't surpris-
ing considering his role as the leader
oflastyear's offensive line.
Going into the end of the spring,
Michigan realistically has five
potential redshirt freshman offen-

sive linemen in addition to eight
returning offensive linemen who
played inat least one game last year.
But yesterday, Rodriguez praised
one player who doesn't fit into either
of those categories - redshirt soph-
omore Mark Huyge, who has yet to
see game action as a Wolverine.
"He's the guy that's played guard,
he's played on leftside and right side,
and he's practicing like he wants to
take that job," Rodriguez said. "So
it's going to be wide open."
NOTES: Saturday's spring game
won't be the Wolverines' last prac-
tice - their 15th and final spring
workout will be next Tuesday,
where Rodriguez said the team will
learn strength drillsto do during the
summer, practice special teams and
start looking at the first few oppo-
nents of the season. ... A number of
notable players were in green jer-
seys at yesterday's practice, which
symbolizes limited action, including
junior wide receiver Greg Mathews,
junior cornerback Donovan Warren
and senior running back Brandon
Minor. Rodriguez said Minor and
Warren's green jerseys were "more
precautionary than anything else."
Sophomore nose tackle Mike Mar-
tin, who Rodriguez said has been
"banged up" lately, also sported a
green jersey during practice.

Michigan baseball coach
Rich Maloney called
his team's pitiful 3-1
loss to Eastern Michigan a "turn-
ing point" of the season. The
Wolverines were still 14-6, almost
exactly where RYAN
they were at this KARTJE
point last year.
He echoed On baseball
similar senti-
ments a week later when Bowl-
ing Green, another sub-.500
Mid-American Conference team,
stunned his team.
The next day, the Wolverines
rallied to beat Oakland 14-13 in a
marathon ballgame. Junior first
baseman Mike Dufek claimed
that this was a "turning point" in
the team's season. After all, they
were only a few days behind last
year's team in getting to 17 wins.
But when the Wolverines
lost two of three to Penn State
last weekend - including a 16-5
shellacking Sunday afternoon -
senior captain Tim Kalczynski
put the icing on the cake with his
"turning point" declaration:
"It could go one of two ways,"
he said. "It could go uphill
really fast or downhill really fast.
It's just a matter of how men-
tally tough we are and how we
respond."
What Kalczynski doesn't real-
ize is that his team has "turned"
so many times that it's back where
it started.
Last season, Michigan had 14
total losses, two at the hands of
then-No. 1 Arizona State. And
the Wolverines had lost just once
to a MAC team, Central Michi-
gan, who they play in Ann Arbor
tonight.
After losing two of its most
efficient batters in first baseman
Nate Recknagel and third base-
man Adam Abraham, Maloney
knew that, in terms of hittingthe
long ball, this team would be a
shell of its former self. Both Abra-
ham and Recknagel had batting
averages over .350, and Recknagel
was named Big Ten Player of the
Year after breaking the Michigan
record for most home runs in a
season (23).
"With all the new faces and the
inexperience, we're like a lot of
teams in the Big Ten," Maloney
said at Meet the Wolverines Night
in February. "A lot of these guys
we're riding on the coattails of
older guys.... Who's going to rise
up?"
If you let the statistics speak
for themselves, this team is nearly
the same as last year.
Dufekand sophomore outfield-
er Ryan LaMarre both have risen
up in a big way, accounting for the
same amount of home runs as the

trio of Recknagel, Abraham and
slugger Zach Putnam, who also
left last season, in as many games.
Their performances have helped
to elevate the team's batting aver-
age .003 higher than it was at this
point last season.
On the mound, senior Chris
Fetter has an ERA .22 points
lower than his mark from a year
ago. But his record is 4-1, com-
pared to 6-0 last season. Even the
team's ERA isn't significantly up
from this point lastyear.
So what makes this team look
so different?
Maloney talked all year about
giving up what he calls "freebies"
and cashing in on opportunities to
manufacture runs. But the Wol-
verines just aren't executing on a
consistent basis.
The truth is, this team's role
players aren't filling the void left
by last year's seniors - Jason
Christian, Derek VanBuskirk and
Leif Mahler, among others.
Against Penn State on Sunday,
Michigan allowed the Nittany
Lions to catch fire and score 12
unanswered runs in the fifth
through eighth innings after
keeping the game close.
In their narrow win against
Oakland, the Wolverines sur-
rendered eight total runs in the
second and third innings - a
gargantuan sum that they barely
eclipsed.
And when a team as young as
Michigan faces deficits like that
on a weekly basis, it's bound to get
discouraged. From the plate, that
has translated into troubles see-
ing the ball, especially for players
who aren't named LaMarre or
Dufek.
The Wolverines have struck out
65 more times than they had at
this point last season.
Senior second baseman and tri-
captain Kevin Cislo said it best:
"It's about inconsistency,' he
said. "Our pitchers will do well
and our hitters won't or vice-
versa. This is our firstyear with a
lot of guys together, so it's going
to take some time.
"But there's no question, we've
got to come out and play with
more consistency."
After Penn State dominated
last year's Wolverines by nine
runs, Michigan won 12 straight
games, including a decisive four-
game sweep of this year's current
Big Ten leader, Illinois.
Yes, this year's team has two
more losses. But the BigTen is
wide open with Michigan just one
game out of first place.
The Fighting Illini await the
Wolverines this weekend - and
the talk about "turning points"
could finally end with a series win.

4

4

After three years of coming up just short,
Catrambone finally a Bid Ten Champion

4

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
When senior Joe Catrambone
stuck his triple backflip dismount
off the high bar at Saturday night's
Big Ten Championships, Michigan
coach Kurt Golder leapt up and
down likea kid on Christmas morn-
ing.
The alumni of the 1999 National
Championship team, gathered in
Ann Arbor to watch Michigan host
Big Tens, stood for Catrambone's
routine - the only time they rose
from their seats all night b
Michigan~s fan section and bench
went crazy. And in a house in Dept-
ford, N. J., Catrambone's family joy-
fully screamed at the television.
Normally, when the senior com-
pletes a successful routine, his cel-
ebration resembles an angry man
trying to start a balky lawnmower.
He scowls intensely, pumping his
fists as though he might dislocate a
shoulder.
On Saturday night, Catrambone
just raised his arms in the air and
smiled. Written on his face was pure
relief.
After three years of postseason
frustration, Catrambone won the
Big Ten high bar title, part of Michi-
gan's one-two-three sweep of the
event awards. It was a moment he'd
waited for his entire career.
"I think the biggest thing that
surprised me was Kurt," Catram-
bone said. "Him giving me a hug at
the end and saying that I'm finally
on the Wall (of Fame in the gym)
kind of got me. That, and watching
the video again. ... I've never, ever
seen Kurt jump in the four years
that I've been here."
But as he jogged toward the
awards stand at the end of the night,
Catrambone wasn't thinking of
what he'd just done.
In his mind's eye, he saw the past
three seasons of missed opportuni-
ties at Big Ten Championships.
He saw himself slipping off the
bar in Iowa as a freshman. He saw
the fall on his full Tak skill two
years ago in Minnesota. He saw
himself last season in State College,
falling off on his full Tak and his
jam.
He remembered watching Big
Ten event finals from the stands,
never capitalizing on the chance

M' battles inclement
weather for fourth place
By NICK SPAR a tie for third after the next 18,
Daily Sports Writer improving their first-round score
by 29 strokes and posting a tourna-
Michigan junior Ashley Bauer ment-low round of 303.
had never seen anything like it on Bauer finished tied for sixth
a golf course before. and led the second-round surge,
As the Michigan women's golf recording'a one-under 71, the low-
team competed .in the second est individual score all tourna-
round of the Indiana Invitational in ment. Freshman Milena Savich
Columbus, Ind., a hailstorm pelted also finished tied for sixth and
the course for about 20 minutes. sophomore Min Yean Tan finished
The putting green was com- tied for 18th.
pletely white. "I felt really great about how we 4
The Wolverines played through came back in the second round,"
rain, sleet, snow, strong winds and Teichert said. "I thought that was
hail in their final regular-season exceptional."
event before the Big Ten Champi- Michigan finished ahead of
onships on Apr. 24. They finished Wisconsin, tournament-host Indi-
fourth out of 14 at the two-day, ana, Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois,
54-hole tournament. Michigan which should help build the team's
finished ahead of all five other Big confidence in the coming weeks.
Ten teams in the field, and No. 31 "Going into the Big Tens, this
UNLV won the event. was really key," Bauer said. "Most
The night before the first two other teams have another tourna-
rounds, Michigan coach Kathy ment before the Big Tens and we
Teichert said she wasn't sure if don't, so this was a good time to go
the course conditions would be out there and get some experience
playable. Temperatures remained under our belt, especially in these
in the mid-to-high 30s through types of conditions."
all three rounds, and severe wind Michigan has 17 days to regroup
made the conditions even worse. and sharpen its game before the
Despite the cold weather that lin- Big Ten Championships in West
gered in the final round, Teichert Lafayette. Teichert said she will
said she was still unsatisfied with assess the progress of her team,
the scores her players recorded. decide who will compete and work
"Any time the temperature is with each of her golfers inthe com-
under 45, (the weather) is going to ing weeks.
be a factor," Teichert said. "But we "The main thing that we're
missed the putts that we needed to goingto be focusing in on would be
make. The three-footers, getting individual work with these play- 4
up-and-down-we just didn't capi- ers," Teichert said. "We got to have
talize on those types of things." them realize that every round and
The Wolverines struggled in every stroke and every shot that
the tough weather during the first is hit is as important as the next.
round and were tied for 11th after A drive is just as important as a
18 holes. But they battled back to putt."

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Senior Joe Catrambone celebrates his dismount on the high bar after his Big Ten Championship-winning routine Saturday.

to prove he was good enough to be
competing in them.
Saturday was completely differ-
ent.
Though he had to spend over two
hours waiting to perform one rou-
tine, Catrambone was careful not to
tense up. Before saluting the judges,
Catrambone visibly suppressed a
grin - definitely not business as
usual for the intense gymnast.
Just as he'd started to get ner-
vous, the high-bar judges provided
some amusement when he went to
chalk up.
"I was chalking up and there was
no chalk in our box," Catrambone
said. "So I went to the ring one,
and I guess the fan was blowing it
in the judges' faces. Three of them
were coughing. They had chalk all
on their jackets. I was trying not to

laugh.... That kind of relaxed me."
Catrambone has dealt with inju-
ries to his wrist and ankle this year,
both of which threatened to derail
his senior season and often forced
him to water down his routines. On
Saturday, none of that was evident.
Catrambone even added an extra
skill, a full spin, to his set to boost
his start value by two tenths of a
point.
When the routine was over, his
teammates' delight was evident.
Senior Ralph Rosso, who has known
Catrambonenearlyhisentirecareer,
wrapped his friend in a wordless
hug. After concluding the night as
the last high-bar competitor and
runner-up, sophomore Thomas Kel-
ley got in on the congratulations,
too.
"I was rooting for everybody in

high-bar lineup, but maybe a little
bit more for (Catrambone)," Michi-
gan assistant coach Scott Vetere
said. "I'm his group coach and I've
seen him go through quite a lot in
the last couple of years, as far as
being able to hit in big meets and
him having problems. ... I'm really
proud of him and I hope he contin-
ues it at NCAAs. He can definitely
be NCAA high-bar champion, no
doubt about it. It's just about him
believing."
Catrambone was one of the lastto
step offthepodium after Michigan's
team title on Friday, trying to stretch
the moment as long as possible. He
was among the last competitors to
leave Crisler Saturday night, too.
"I'll never forget it," Catrambone
said. "I'll never forget (Friday) night
or (Saturday) for the rest of my life."


0

0 0 0

0 " "


Death on the Iob ByEric Cohen

was changing the sheets on an
emergency room cot. It's one of
the only things they let me do
during my emergency room clini-
cal training as an EMT-Basic. I
savored the experience - cleaning
was a welcome break from stand-
ing around and waiting for a nurse
to order me around.
But then a paramedic saw my
EMT student uniform and gave me
a heads up about a cardiac arrest
that was en route to the emergen-
cy room. "Hey chief, there's a code
blue coming into Trauma Room 2,
you should get in there!"
When I walked into Trauma
Room 2, there were three doctors,
two residents, three nurses and
two emergency room technicians.
We all stood around an empty bed,
awaiting the arrival of the ambu-
lance and the patient.
"You're on compressions," the
leading doctor said to me. OK, I
thought, no problem. I'm certified
for this - 100 compressions per
minute. Just sing "Stayin' Alive"
by the Bee Gees in your head, and
compress at the rate that Barry
Gibb sings, "Ah, ha, ha, ha...." Let
your training take over.
The doctors were talking among
themselves, something about "the
eight ball." One of the techs was
trying to make idle conversation

with me. I wasn't listening to her.
When the paramedics brought
the patient into the room, the first
thing I noticed was the smell of
vomit. It was caked in his hair,
around his neck, down his chest.
He looked like Paul Bunyan with
his heavy work boots, jeans and a
plaid, flannel shirt. His brown hair
was a thick, curly mop.
Suddenly I was standing above
him, my hands between his nip-
ples. I thrust the bottom of my left
palm straight into his heart 100
times per minute. It wasn't like it
was on the training mannequin.
The mannequin didn't come with a
breakable ribcage. "Ah, ha, ha, ha,
stayin' alive, stayin' alive."
This time, though, John Tra-
volta wasn't busting a move and
there was no stayin' alive. There
was only a 20-year-old college
kid artificially pumping a stopped
heart in vain.
What they don't tell you in the
movies is that CPR works about
five percent of the time - on a
good day - when you begin imme-
diately after the heart stops. This
man had collapsed 30 minutes
prior to me beginning compres-
sions.
I tried to focus on what the
doctors were doing - after all, I
want to be an ER doctor one day.

There
me as
other, I
tors, st
reactiv
with.m
of this
ing thi
him so
dead. f
the doc
en
a
COU
restart
."Cho
PATIE
The
inches
course(
attemp
diac rh
started
His ey
couldn
doctor
I want

was movement all around "Time of death, 22:23" was all I
doctors shouted at each heard. I'm sorry, Paul Bunyan.
looked at ultrasound moni- "Good compressions," a resident
tarted IV's, checked pupil said tome.
ity and filled big needles "Yeah, great compressions.
edicine. I was at the center Damn, did you feel his spine?" the
chaos, essentially pump- main doctor said.
s man's defective heart for A nurse joked, "Hey, Eric, need
that he wouldn't be brain- some new shoes? This guy's boots
rom oxygen deprivation if are nice."
ctors were somehow able to The paramedic who had brought
the guy in needed a signature so he
could return to his ambulance, "I
M y first don't think this patient can sign at
the moment," he said.
icounter with Their morbid sense of humor
sickened me, but this was the first
patient who time I had seen a person die. This
was just another Friday night for
ildn't be saved them.
I tried to act like I wasn't both-
ered by the situation. I want to
be an ER doctor one day, and this
his heart, was just a standard cardiac arrest,
arging... CLEAR THE right? I washed and scrubbed my
NT!" I heard. shaking hands and arms up to the
patient's body jumped six elbow, but I couldn't stop think-
into the air as electricity ing about the dead body on the bed
d through his.heart in an behind me. According to what the
t to restore some sort of car- patient's friends told the paramed-
ythm. It didn't work, and I ics, he had woken up that morning,
l the compressions again. dressed himself, gone to work and
yes were vacant, glassy. I donated blood. Now he was at St.
't understand anything the Joseph's Emergency Room, dead
s were saying, even though at 29 years old.
ed to. I thought to myself, what if we

had saved him? What if, just like
in the movies, the EKG machine
started beep-beep-beeping with
a viable heartbeat right after we
defibrillated him?
Then, suddenly, the pieces
snapped together. I realized that I
wasn't upset and terrified because
I couldn't handle such a serious,
frightening situation. I was upset
because, for the first time in my
young life, I was part of saving
someone's life - and we failed.
This terrified me, but it also legiti-
mized my work as a pre-med stu-
dent.
I don't enjoy preparing for
the MCAT or studying when my
friends aren't. Medical school is
a four-year gauntlet of stress and
debt. I've been told a dozen times,
"If you're considering any career
path other than medicine,' do
that."
And yet I've never been more
willing to dedicate myself to being
a physician. I would have the skills
and knowledge to be in charge of
an emergency situation. I'm not
naive enough to expect to save
everyone, but if failing feels this
abysmal, then saving a life must be
extraordinary. And that's worth
it.
-Eric Cohen is an LSA junior

OF THE YEAR




I

S V V

0

0

,a

0

w



Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
The Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Lan Truong
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year

new rules
rule 197:
Don't bully your
friends into
getting season
football tickets.
You'll feel like a
jerk when they
cop out of most
of the games
next fall. rule
198: Only ask
your housemate
to turn down
music if he went
to bed alone. In
the other case,
wait 15 minutes
until the sex is
over. rule 199:
Vegans don't
have the right to
bitch about the
soap you have in
your bathroom.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

Engineering senior Julia Samorezov
likes to spread herself thin. Involved in
the engineeringhonor society Tau Beta Pi,
the Engineering Ambassadors and a ser-
vice sorority, Samorezov has the immedi-
ate collegiate community covered. Now,
she's looking beyond Ann Arbor.
Samorezov is vice president and co-
founder of Michigan Health Engineered
for All Lives (M-HEAL), astudent organi-
zation founded in 2006 to design medical
equipment for needy communities in the
developing world.
"We started out with a broad, naive
idea of'we want to help people,' "Samore-
zov said. "But we're narrowing that down
into ways we can actively help people."
Last year, M-HEAL designed a surgi-
cal lamp with back-up battery power that
can be used in areas with inconsistent
electricity. The group plans to send the
first prototype of the lamp to Uganda to
receive feedback on its designfrom health
providers working in clinics there.
M-HEAL also conducts a 'survey
of need' to address the lack of medical
resources in underprivileged communi-
ties and works with Detroit-based World
Medical Relief to, among other things,
repair used medical equipment.
And despite her part in M-HEAL's

recent success, Samorezov doesn't take
pride in her own achievements with the
organization so much as in its future.
"Next year on the executive board,
there's not going to be any of the origi-
nal M-HEAL founders," Samorezov said.
"And that's really exciting."
Given her modesty, it's appropriate
that as M-HEAL's vice president, Samor-
ezov assumes a more behind-the-scenes
role. But her contributions haven't gone
unnoticed.
"The idea for M-HEAL was origi-
nally Julia's," Stephen DeWitt, one of
M-HEAL's three co-founders and head of
the surgical lamp team, said in an e-mail.
"Julia called me and told me her idea and I
agreed to help bring it to fruition, but she
was definitely the driving force behind
everything."
It seems that all those connected to
M-HEAL are quick to heap praise on
Samorezov.
"She leads by example and expects
no less of herself than she does others,"
Engineering Prof. Aileen Huang-Saad,
who advises M-HEAL, said in an e-mail.
"When the people around her see her
efforts, they easily follow. These leader-
ship skills are unique."
- STEPHEN OSTROWSKI


Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
SUNGLASSES
and... more classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded
its 2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.sa.umich.edu/lsa/sewcourses.,
.SA

LIKE THE INTERNET?
WE DO, TOO.
WORK FOR OUR
ONLINE STAFF.
E-mail graca@michigandaily.com

Teweedbefr finals Iast Decem-
bet, LSA junior Moustafa Moustafa wasn't
studyingfor his anatomy exam that Monday.
He was driving a rental truck to Chicago
through a snowstor.
The truck contained medical supplies
that nterfaith campus roup Children
of Abraha had collected and Moustafa was
rush'n to get the supplies on a container
bound for Iraq
The group, which includes Muslim, Jew-
ish and Christian student from the Muslim
Students' Association, Hillel and StMary's
Student Parish, opends thousands of hours
collecting and sorting recently expired or
unwanted medical supplies to ship to clinics
KRISTA BoYD/eay For Moustafa, who founded the group on

campus two and a half years ago after being
inspired by a group of the same name based
in Indiana, service to the poor and sick is
central to his Muslim faith. But faith isn't
the only reason students volunteer with the
group.
"We are handling the very supplies that
might have the potential to save lives or ease
sufferingabroad,so Ithink people are drawn
to that intimacy," Moustafa said.
Working out the logistical details likefind-
ing cheap warehouse space close to campus,
devising a system to sort thousands of differ-
ent supplies and fundraising was a challenge
in getting the project off the ground, he said.
This summer, the group shipped a con-
tainer full of about a million dollars worth of
medical supplies to Tanzania, and last week-

end, they sealed a container bound for clinics
in Ghana.
Moustafa, who was recently honored
with a Michigan Leadership Award, credits
the group's success to its interfaith nature
because the diversity of the group's members
has given ita far-reaching base for network-
ing. In order to put campus diversity to use,
student groups must engage each other, he
said.
To illustrate the point, Moustafa quoted
an analogy from the Interfaith Youth Core, a
nationalgroup that Moustafa belongs to that
promotes religious pluralism: "Diversity is
like a bunch of different people on an eleva-
tor together. They're just there. Pluralism is
them working together."
- KELLYFRASER


TS ~ cia al Wdnsa, pi 820


--- The Mich -igan Daily
Wednesday, 2009

az r


QUOTES OF THE WEEK
. . . ."Saving the New York Times
My administration is the .
only thing between you now ranks with saving Dar-
and the pitchforks." fur as a high-minded cause."
and hepthfrs
- BILL KELLER, executive editor of the New York
- BARACK OBAMA, president of the Times, speaking at the dedication of a new build-
United States, in a recently revealed con- . ing for The Stanford Daily about his surprise at the
versation that occurred during a meeting willingness of people to rally behind the Times in an
last week with the CEOs of the major bank- effort to keep it from going out of business. In his
ing institutions. Obama was responding to remarks at Stanford, Keller also compared opening
the issue of high executive pay. a new building for a newspaper to a "ribbon-cutting"
for "a new Pontiac dealership".
"Three bodies. Two heads."
- SHAHID IQBAL, deputy special general for operations at the Lahore Police Department in Paki-
stan, explaining what his police forces found when they arrived at a police academy in Lahore that
had been attacked by militants. Some officers believed that the militants were from Afghanistan

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Rockets from North Korea
2. Japanese robots on the moon
3. Midwestern same-sex
marriages
And three things you can't:
1. Snow in April
2. The Minnesota Senate race
3. The Queen's new iPod
BY THE NUMBERS
Number of new people who enrolled to receive food stamps from
December to January
Numbers of states in which food stamp enrollment increased
in January
Number of people who are now receiving food stamps,
a record high
Source: Reuters

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Sheepish art
Perhaps one of art's greatest vir-
tues is that it can take many different
forms. If they so choose, artists can
use virtually anything as a subject
- even a herd of sheep with light-
emitting diodes, or LEDs, strapped to
their backs.
In this astonishing video, the
group the Baaa-studs (think about it)
presents what it calls "Extreme Shep-
herding" in a meadow in Wales. With
a motley crew that includes Emris
the "electrician" and Bernard the
"general," the Baaa-studs use sheep
to create works of art that will blow
your mind.
The video begins with a herd of
sheep frantically running across the
meadow, Prodded along by both dogs
and members of the Bgaa-studs, the
sheep then magically assemble in
their first work of art: an enormous
reproduction of a sheep, with white
sheep comprising its body and brown
sheep making up its legs and face.
When night comes, the Baaa-
studs break out the LEDs. Once they
are assembled, the sheep with LEDs
become a replica of a game of Pong.
They form the paddles, net, score-
board and, most impressively, the
actual ball. A herd of sheep moves
back and forth across the net, revers-
ing its direction upon being "hit" by
the sheep comprising the paddle.
This video may or may not be real.
Either way, it's pretty awesome.
- BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
voninherom/sser/michi'andaiv

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
R.I.P., Motor City - Last week wasn't a good one
for Detroit. Obama warned GM and Chrysler about
bankruptcy, and both of Detroit's big daily papers
reduced the number of days they publish a full
paper. In this crisis, you need to pay homage to a
moribund Detroit. So, gather your friends and drive
to American Coney Island, where you can enjoy
delicious coneys and fries while reminiscing about
the Motor City. Let's hope it won't be your last trip.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStotement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Children of older fathers perform worse on IQ tests
Children of older fathers don't perform as well as those of younger
fathers on intelligence tests taken during early childhood, according
to a study published in the online journal PLoS Medicine by a group
of Australian researchers led by Dr. John J. McGrath of Queensland
Brain Institute in Brisbane.
In the study, the researchers assessed data from intelligence tests
of 33,437 children who were born in the United States between 1959
and 1965. The children had taken cognitive tests at 8 months old, 4
years old and 7 years old. The tests included exercises in thinking and
reasoning, memory, comprehension and speaking and reading. In the
study, fathers were ages 14 to 66 and mothers were 12 to 48.
The study found that children with fathers who were 50 years old
performed worse than children whose fathers were 20on almost every
single test, regardless of the mother's age. But children with older
mothers usually performed better on the tests, the study concluded.
- BRIAN TENGEL



AM AM

0 0 0
200

0

0

0

Wednesday, ApiV, 09-Th ihga a

ATH LETES, AESTH ETES & ACTI'

V'S'S

SAMWC


