A LEG UP WINTER EATS
Zolan esk's punting Eating local in the winter means .
Zoltan Mesko's pntin
coach drops kicking tips in limiting your diet - but not as
140 characters or less. much as you might think.
See Sports, Page 8A See The StatementInside

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, October 14, 2009
INNOVATION ON DISPLAY

michigandaily.com

BUILDING A STUDENT BODY
This year's
class largest
in 'U' history

SAM WOLSON/Daily
University lab assistant Jun Liu takes down a poster describing the recently developed process of creating synthetic enamel at the Celebrate Invention 2009 last night,
The event, which was held in the Michigan League, lauds inventions pioneered at the University.
ACADEMIC OPTIONS
A new major for a gobalized world

At
nigl
off

reception last University held out on offering the
concentration.
ht, international After several years of student
requests and a successful test-run
studies major with a minor, officials at the Cen-
ter for International & Compara-
icially launched tive Studies decided it was time to
move on to a major.
By ALLIE WHITE Ken Kollman, director of CICS,
Daily StaffReporter said an advisory committee com-
prised of both faculty and students
University has finally began drafting a proposal for a
ed a major in International new International Studies major
s, a move that was long- 18 months ago.
d by many students and one "There was some back and forth
ame some years after peer with the (LSA) Curriculum Com-
tions had established simi- mittee," said Kollman. "The final
grams. proposal was accepted last year."
ile the international Insti- According to the program's
the College of Literature, website, the concentration "offers
e and the Arts has been students the opportunity to take
for more than 15 years, the a set of courses across disciplines

bringing multiple methods and
concepts together to address glob-
al problems."
Students choose from one of
four tracks within the major -
Political Economy and Develop-
ment, Comparative Culture and
Identity, Global Environment and
Health, and International Secu-
rity and Norms and Cooperation
- taking classes that span from
economics to comparative litera-
ture to political science.
Though the University offers
many courses in world politics and
international relations, Kollman
believes the International Studies
major is special for its breadth.
"It doesn't take the nation-state
as the unit of analysis all the time,"
he said. "It is very much oriented
towards the study of global prob-

lems or regional problems that cut
across national boundaries."
During a roundtable discussion
yesterday that was part of a pro-
gram launch celebration hosted
by CICS, students were invited to
speak with faculty members who
were instrumental in developing
the major and hear the professors'
views on why the concentration is
such a crucial addition to the Uni-
versity's academic canon.
Relevance, innovation and
internationalization were key-
words among those at the round-
table.
Susan Waltz, a professor of pub-
lic policy, stressed the importance
of looking at international issues
on a global scale rather than sim-
ply through an American lens.
See MAJOR, Page 7A

Underrepresented
minority enrollment
declined for fourth
straight year
By NICOLE ABER
Daily Staff Reporter
This fall, enrollment at the Uni-
versity reached its high water mark
in school history, spurred in part
by an augmented acceptance rate,
which is now at 50 percent, accord-
ingto data released bythe Universi-
ty today. The data also showed that
the number of underrepresented
minority students enrolling at the
University declined for the fourth
straightyear.
Enrollment totaled 41,674 stu-
dents for the fall 2009 semester,
according to numbers released this
morning by the University Office
of the Registrar. There are 26,208
undergraduates and 15,466 gradu-
ate students on campus this fall.
Ted Spencer, associate vice pro-
vost and executive director of the
University's admissions office, said
the increase in overall enrollment is
due to a number of factors, like the
anticipation of a large number of
students graduating this year and a
substantial number of students not
returning to the University this year
because of financial constraints.
"These kinds of fluctuations
happen throughout any given year,
with effect to overall target chang-
es," Spencer said.
He added that these types of
changes contributed to the admis-
sions office's decision to increase
the size of the incoming class this
year.
Admission offers were up more
than 19 percent from last year,
according to a press release from
the University News Service. The
University's acceptance rate of 50
percent this year was an 8-percent
increase from last year, Spencer
said.
University officials were con-
cerned about the University's abil-
ity to accommodate the increase in

BY THE NUMBERS
Data released today gives the most
up-to-date profile oftthe student body.
41F674
Total enrollment at the University this year,
upfrom 41,028lastyear.
50%
The acceptance ratefor 2009 applicants,
an 8-percent increase over last year.
Percentage decrease in the number of
underrepresented minorities inthis year's
freshman class,
535
Numbertof underrepresented minorities
enrolled in the freshman class thistfall,
down 69 studentstfrom lastpyear.
SOURCE: University Officetof the Registrar
students, but ultimately concluded
that there would be enough facili-
ties and staffto support the growth,
Spencer said.
While overall freshmen enroll-
ment is up 5.1 percent over last year
- totaling 6,079 students - under-
represented minority freshmen
enrollment was down 11.4 percent
from last year, according to the
report.
This decrease represents a loss
of 69 underrepresented minority
students - from 604 last year to
535 this year. Asa percentage of the
incoming freshman class, under-
represented minority students fell
from making up 10.4 percent of the
fall 2008 class to making up 9.1
percent of the fall 2009 freshmen
class.
Since the passage of a state-
wide constitutional amendment in
2006 banning public institutions
from using affirmative action as
a factor in admissions, the num-
ber of underrepresented minor-
ity students at the University has
declined every year.
Spencer said the University is
See ENROLLMENT, Page 7A

The
launch
Studie
awaite
that c
institu
lar pro
Whi
tute at
Scienc
active


MICH IGAN STUDENT ASSE M BLY
MSA votes nay on
s peaking limits

INSPIRED MOVES

Non-University
speakers would
have been restricted
by proposal
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
Last night, the Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly voted to reject
a resolution that would have
placed restrictions on com-
munity members who come to
speak to the assembly during the
"community concerns" portion
of its weekly meetings.
The proposal failed after
the assembly voted 17 in favor,
16 opposed, with one member
abstaining. The resolution need-
ed a two-thirds majority to pass
because it involved changing the
assembly's code.
The proposed resolution
would have required speakers
to present a valid, unexpired
MCard to the assembly in order
to speak. Those unaffiliated
with the University would have

to request permission to address
the assembly from the executive
board at least two business days
prior to the meeting.
The resolution would have
also shortened the time allotted
to each speaker from five minutes
to three minutes and the overall
time for community speakers
from an hour to 30 minutes.
MSA President Abhishek
Mahanti voted "yes" on the reso-
lution, but feels that even though
it failed, the assembly took part
in an important debate.
"Ithink allthepointswere pre-
sented very well," he said. "And it
came downto avotethatImaynot
agree with personallybut I'm glad
that it did come to the outcome
that it did and we are stronger as
an assemblybecause of it."
In the past, community con-
cerns have consumed large por-
tions of meetings' time, with
many community members
speaking abouttopics some argue
are not specificallyrelevant to the
University community.
Mahanti said this resolution
would have given the assembly
See MSA, Page 7A

CAMPUS CRIME
Money swiped from
Michigan League

By TREVOR CALERO and
JACOB SMILOVITZ
Daily News Editors
Just before 8:30 p.m. last night,
a man approached the front desk
of the UGo's store at the Michigan
League and told the clerk that he
would be a "happy camper" if she
would spare him some change.
When the clerk, LSA junior
Dasha Dokshina, opened the cash
drawer on her own volition, the
man reached over the counter,
grabbed a handful of cash and then
fled on foot out the north doors of
the League.
"He had a $5 bill and asked if he
could get four ones and four quar-
ters," Dokshina said. "I didn't think
anything of it. People ask for change
all the time."
Dokshina said there was about

$400 worth of $20 bills in the cash
register at the time. "But he didn't
take the $100 bill," she said.
"Times are getting rough out
there," Amy Matthews, UGo's night
manager, said. "It's happening
everywhere now and people need
to think about that."
Matthews said she believed this
to be the first time the League has
been robbed in at least the last
14 years. But she said the League
UGo's gets "ripped off" by shoplift-
ers a lot.
Dokshina said she hopes this will
prompt the University to install
security cameras in the League,
which, she said she believes, cur-
rently has none.
"It's an open building, anyone can
come in," she said. "In the event that
this happens, they have no way of
See CRIME, Page 7A

MARiSSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Members of the campus dance group Amala teach a couple new moves to stu-
dents at their Makossa Night yesterday in the Michigan League. Amala's dancing
is inspired by the music and culture of West Africa and the Congo.


WEATHER HI: 47 GOT A NEWS TIP?
WOEHLo: 34 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW L: 3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Washtenaw County gets swineflu vaccine shipment.
MICHIGANDAILYCOM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS .................................2A CLASSIFIEDS.. . .A......6A
Vol CXX, No. 27 OPINION 4........................4A SPORTS. ..... ........8A
m 09 Th eM chigan aily A RTS S................................. A THE STATEM ENT................. 1B



4

2A - Wednesday, October 14, 2009

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

Staying afloat

The Michigan Concrete Canoe
Team will do anything to stay
afloat, even ifit means duct-taping
the canoe during a competition.
Or so says Engineering junior
Lexi Walter, head captain of the
University's Concrete Canoe
Team, remembering a failed
2008 competition when the
team's carefully planned canoe
cracked.
Each year, the team works
throughout the semester to build
a concrete canoe, which it races
at the annual North Central
Regional Competition.
The MCCT tries to get under-
graduates involved in advanced
research of cement mixes by
turning research into a compe-
tition, according to the team's
Web site.
Walter said she first learned
about the concept of a concrete
canoe when she visited colleges
during her senior year of high

school.
After learning about the
canoes, she said she became fas-
cinated with the idea and imme-
diately joined the University's
team at the beginning of her
freshman year.
"I didn't even know concrete
could float," Walter said.
The team spends its first
semester each year research-
ing ingredients for the concrete.
Walter said members must con-
sider "cement content, water
content and air content, in order
to make a canoe with alow spe-
cific gravity."
After designing the canoe
hull in AutoCAD - a program
that allows the team to draw out
plans in 3-D before physically
building the canoe - the team
uses the design to create a foam
mold of the canoe.
The concrete, made in a mixer
at G.G. Brown Laboratories on

North Campus, is then poured
into the mold to create the final
canoe, which is used in the annu-
al competition - the highlight of
the year for the team, according
to Walter.
"Competition weekend is just
a blast," she said. "You get to
meet other teams and talk and
commiserate about what went
terribly and what went great."
While the University's team
has not yet won the competition,
team members say the experi-
ence is always one to remember.
The competition, usually held
in late March, will be held at
Western Michigan University
thisyear.Teamsintheconference
will race the canoes in a regatta.
The winning team must not only
have a well-made canoe but also
must be able to row it quickly,
making the race a competition of
both the mind andthe body.
- SHR UTI GANDHI

Members of the Concrete Canoe Club pose with their 2008/2009 canoe
yesterday.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editsr is Chief Basiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Sun.-Thurs.11 a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaiy.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
OnlinetSales ontineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.om
Jacob Smilovitz ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skollr,,KylSwson~
SST NT NEWS ED ORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steibr, Eshwr Thirunavukkars
RobertSoave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel VanGioder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:EmmaJeszke, MatthewShuter
Andy Reid ManagingSportsEditor reid@michigandaity.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, AlexProsperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns,Chantel Jennings, Gin Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,ChrisMeszaros,RyanPodges
DavidWatnick ManagfngArtsEditor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,WhitneyPow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:Joshua Bayer,CarolynKlarecki,rAndrewLapin, David Riva,
Jeff Sanford
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaity.com
lif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@miehigandaily.com
MaunnS h Manag esn Editors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaity.com
Katherine Mitchell Copyrthief mitcellt@michigardaily.com
ASOCITE COPYCHEF MelanieFried, AdimWollstir
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak sales Manager
SALESFORCE MANAGER:Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan BusinskiClassified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:Kayla LaFata
Ben English ProductionManager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales CirculationManager
Brad Wiley ProjectCoordinator
The Michigan Daily eSSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday duringthe fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversityofMchigan.rOnecopyisavalablefreeochargetoal
readirs Additionalcopiesmay bepirkedupattheDailystofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor falterm,
startinginseptember,viaU.s.malare$1O.inter term(January throughApril)is$11,yearlong
(september through Aprili,95.Uiers iatesare subjecttoa reducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campussubscriptionsforfalltermare$3s.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichiganDaily

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Parkingpermit Dude, where's Anthropology LGBT annual
perishes my bike? Oh... lecture faculty reception
I- - -- - 9--

WHERE: University Lot M-34 there it is.

WHEN: Monday at about 7:45
a.m.
WHAT: A parking permit was
stolen from the windshield of
a University employee's car,
University Police reported.
Police are looking for the
permit but currently have no
leads.

WHERE: 500 block Church
St.
WHEN: Monday at about 2:45
p.m.
WHAT: A student reported
that he exited Mary Markley
Hall to find his bike, which
had been locked, missing from
a nearby bike rack, University
Police reported. The bike was
soon found near Dennison Hall.

The laptop drop Hit and run

WHAT: A brown bag lec-
ture "Socialist generic:
branding and state legiti-
macy in socialist Hungary"
with Krisztina Fehervary,
assistant professor anthro-
pology.
WHO: The Center for Rus-
sian and East European
Studies
WHEN: Today from 12 to
1:30 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building
Graduate school
information fair
WHAT: The Career Center
will host an information
fair to distribute informa-
tion about graduate schools
and graduate programs.
More than 110 schools from
across the country will
attend. _ -. - -
WHO: Michigan Union
WHEN: Today from 4 to 7
p.m.
WHERE: The Career Center


WHAT: A reception and
brief meeting for Univer-
sity faculty and deans who
are interested in Lesbian
Gay Bisexual Transgender
issues.
WHO: UM Lesbian Gay
Bisexual Transgender Fac-
ulty Alliance
WHEN: Tonight from 5 to
7 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Gradu-
ate School, East Conference
Room, fourth floor
CORRECTIONS
* An article in yesterday's
edition of The Michigan Daily,
"Where 12 tons of laundry go
each week," incorrectly iden-
tified the number of people
employed by the University's
Laundry Services. There are
69 employees.
1 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.


A man was charged with
misdemeanor aggravated
assault after he allegedly
raised a beer can "in a threaten-
ing way" at a security guard and
yelled obscenities at patrons at
the Chicago Board of Options
Exchange in the Loop in Chi-
cago Monday night, the Chicago
Sun-Times reported.
Female students weren't
allowed to attend the
University's career fair in
the 1950s. A group decided to
setup a fair for women.
>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
A Texas trooper stopped a
vehicle marked to look like
a school bus Saturday, The
Associated Press reported. The
fake school bus was loaded with
5,408 pounds of marijuana esti-
mated to be worth more than
$1.7 million. The Texas Depart-
ment of Safety is searching for
the driver, who fled on foot from
the trooper.

WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Monday at about 1:45
p.m.
WHAT: A female staff mem-
ber accidentally dropped a
University issued laptop, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
repair costs will total over
$1,000. Charges are being left
up to University Insurance.

WHERE: M-18 Carport
WHEN: Monday at about 8:30
a.m.
WHAT: A caller's car was
struck by an unknown vehicle
while it was parked, Universi-
ty Police reported. The caller's
vehicle was left with minor
damage.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more onine at michigandaily co i/blogs/the wire


Makesue s t.uents
into the riht crib.
Fall Realty Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop students from
thinking about housing early, so why should you?Advertise
leases for now, May, and Fall 2sto! Reach over 40,000
students and other Universitymembers.

Obama favors blue states for travel

Almost 80percent of
domestic travel to key
campaign states
PITTSBURGH (AP) - For Presi-
dent Barack Obama, it's almost as if
the election campaign never ended.
Just look at his travel schedule.
The same states that Obama tar-
geted to win the White House are see-
ing an awful lot of the president, Vice
President Joe Biden and top Cabinet
officials. Onlythis year,the taxpayers
are footing the multimillion-dollar
tab'for the trips, and Obama officials
are delivering wheelbarrows of eco-
nomic stimulus money - also com-
pliments of taxpayers.

An Associated Press review of.
administration travel records shows
that three of every four official trips
Obama and his key lieutenants made
in his first seven months in office
were to the 28 states Obama won.
Add trips to Missouri and Montana
- both of which Obama narrowly
lost - and almost 80 percent of the
administration's official domes-
tic travel has been concentrated in
states likely tobe key to Obama's re-
election effort in 2012.
While similar data hasn't been
compiled for previous administra-
tions, new presidents traditionally
have used official travel to shore up
- and add to - their political base.
Consider President George W. Bush's
travelrecord, for instance.

"When we were trying to build
support for key policy initiatives, it
made sense for President Bush to
travel to states with persuadable
citizens," says Scott Stanzel, a former
White House spokesman who was
the press secretary for Bush's 2004
re-election bid. "That meant visits to
'purple states' where people weren't
as likely to already support or oppose
the president's plans."
For Obama, the key policy ini-
tiative early on was a $787 billion
economic stimulus package. While
aimed at the worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression, it also
gavethenew administrationachance
to reap political benefits traditionally
reserved for lawmakers touting pork-
barrel projects backhome.

Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.com

i
,,. r
i
i "-:
- r a .
r'z '4
i
f
3

0


MichiganEngineering

The Promise of
Green Technologies
Bill Joy
Partner
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
Co-founder
Sun Microsystems
Thursday
October 15, 2009
4 p.m.
Penny and Roe Stamps Auditorium
Adjacent to
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr.
Drama Center

Symposium featuring presentations from IT security experts:
Wade Baker, Verizon Business Security Solutions
Cybercrime: The Actors, Their Actions, and
What They're After
Moxie Marlinspike, Institute for Disruptive Studies
Some Tricks for Defeating SSL in Practice
Adam Shostack and Andrew Stewart, authors
Book: The New School of lnfonation Security
Terrence Berg, U.S. Dept. of Justice
Case Study: The Spam King
Dr. J. Alex Halderman, University of Michigan
Cold Boot Attacks Against Disk Encryption

0

University of Michigan n.T

c


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 14, 2009 - 3A ;

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Ford, UAW agree
to tentative deal
Ford Motor Co. yesterday reached
a deal to alter its contract with the
United Auto Workers union that
helps the automaker keep costs in
line with rivals but risks alienating
rank-and-file workers.
The agreement with the UAW's
leadership includes a no-strike pro-
vision, a wage freeze for entry-level
workers and work rule changes so
employees can do more tasks.
But a $1,000 bonus and promises
of additional work at some facto-
ries may be enough to get the pact
through a ratification vote that likely
will begin this week.
Details of the agreement were to
be presented to local union leaders
from across the country at a meet-
* ing in downtown Detroit yesterday.
Leaders will vote on whether to
recommend the agreement to Ford's
41,000 UAW members, but it could
be a tough sell. Local union lead-
ers have reported a large amount
of opposition to more concessions
because Ford is in better financial
shape than competitors Chrysler
LLC and General Motors Co.
A person briefed on its provi-
sions said the bonus is payable in
March to every UAW worker based
on improvements in quality and pro-
ductivity.
KABUL, Afghanistan
Karzai defends
" scrutinized election
President Hamid Karzai
acknowledged fraud yesterday in
the still-unresolved August presi-
dential election but defended the
" vote as a "victory" for the Afghan
people.
Results of the Aug. 20 balloting
have stalled because of allegations
of massive fraud, as a U.N.-backed
panel investigates the charges
before deciding whether Karzai
won or must face his main rival,
Abdullah Abdullah, in a runoff
Allegations that Karzai's follow-
ers triedto rigthe electionhavetar-
nished his image and raised doubts
in the United States about the mer-
its of the war even as the Obama
administration weighs sending
thousands more U.S. troops to fight
Taliban insurgents.
In a bid to refurbish his image,
Karzai appeared yesterday on
* ABC-TV's "Good Morning Amer-
ica," endorsing calls for more U.S.
troops and accusing his critics of
exaggerating the extent of election
fraud.
MOSCOW
* Russian FM:
Threats of Iran
sanctions won't work
Russia pushed back yesterday at
U.S. efforts to threaten tough new
sanctions if Iran fails to prove its
nuclear program is peaceful, a set-
back to the Obama administration's
desire to present a united front with
Moscow.
After meeting with U.S. Secretary
of State Hillary Rodham Clinton,

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov said Moscow believed that
such threats would not persuade
Iran to comply and that negotiations
should continue to be pursued.
"At the current stage, all forces
should be thrown at supporting the
negotiating process," he told report-
ers at a joint news conference with
Clinton. "Threats, sanctions and
threats of pressure in the current
situation, we are convinced, would
be counterproductive."
FLINT, Mich.
Woman to be tried
over girl found dead
A woman accused of starving
her adopted quadriplegic daughter
and stashing the 9-year-old's body
in a storage unit must stand trial on
charges including murder, a judge
ruled yesterday.
Lorrie Thomas, 40, of Flint, is
scheduled to be arraigned Monday
in circuit court on six charges in-
cluding second-degree murder and
welfare fraud after Judge Tracy
Collier-Nix of 68th District Court
ruled there was enough evidence
to send her to trial.
Authorities believe Shylae
Thomas was dead for six weeks
when her body was discovered in-
side a 33-gallon container in astor-
age unit near Flint on April 22. The
Wdoctor who performed an autopsy
on the 33-pound girl said the cause
of death was a combination of ne-
glect, malnourishment and dehy-
dration.
- Compiled from
Djily wire reports

Former provost cites
need for engin. grads

Vest compares state of
engineering studies
in U.S. to those in
Japan, China
By FIDES ARANETA
For the Daily
When it comes to innovation,
the United States could be fall-
ing behind.
In a keynote address yesterday
morning, National Academy of
Engineering President Charles
M. Vest discussed the country's
dwindling number of engineer-
ing students.
The speech at Penny and Roe
Stamps Auditorium on North
Campus was part of an event
called Assuring Michigan's
Knowledge-Based Workforce: A
Summit on Diversity & Opportu-
nity in K-16+ Engineering Edu-
cation.
Vest, a former University of
Michigan provost and president
emeritus of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, com-
pared the state of engineering
studies in the United States to
those of Japan and China.
According to Vest, in the early
1980s, the United States, Japan

and China were equal in the
number of graduating engineers,
atabout 75,000 people. However,
he said, in 2002, the figures for
Japan and China had risen to
100,000 and 250,000 graduates
respectively, while the number
of graduates in the United States
fell to about 60,000.
In particular, Vest empha-
sized the need for a more diverse
student population in the field of
engineering.
"Our nation is facing tectonic
economic and global changes
and challenges," Vest said. "We
are seeing some backsliding in
the participation of women and
underrepresented minorities in
our engineering."
Vest said that in his earlier
years of teaching, women and
underrepresented minorities
were few in number, but they
were among the best in the class.
He said he wants to give more
opportunity for success to every
young person.
"The time really has come to
slay the dragon of complacency,"
he said. "There's little slack left.
Other nations are not biding
their time.
"I'm really worried, and in
fact," he continued, "I'm fright-
ened, but nonetheless, deep
inside me, there's still a spark of

optimism."
Vest argued that K-12 educa-
tion in America should do more
to encourage young people to
pursue engineering.
He said a majority of engi-
neering students in the state of
Michigan is from other coun-
tries. Since many of them return
home after graduation, he said,
they cannot be relied on so heav-
ily to contribute to innovation in
America.
"This requires two things:
inspiration and improvement in
education," Vest said.
Vest suggested giving AP
exams in math, science and
English at a younger age and an
incentive: a cash payment for
good marks.
Additionally, Vest cited a
National Math and Science
Initiative program that will
graduate 10,000 K-12 teachers,
appropriately disciplined in par-
ticular subjects, as a move in the
right direction.
Vest said the purpose of the
summit was "to help others see
the future. And to give them a
sense that the future need not
simply happen to them, some-
thing they respond to, but they,
to a large extent, can make the
future happen, they can shape it,
not just respond to it."


Senate Finance Committee member Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, second from
right, is seen on Capitol Hill in Washington yesterday during the committee's hear-
ing regarding health care reform.
Snowe vote pushes
health bill forward'
Oly pia Snowe only a hint of the bipartisanship that
Obama seeks.
Republican on key At the White House, Obama
called the events "a critical mile-
Cmte. to vote for bill stone" toward remaking the
nation's health care system. He
WASHINGTON (AP) - Historic praised Snowe as well as Sen. Max
legislation to expand U.S. health Baucus, D-Mont., chairman of the
care and control costs won its first committee, and declared, "We are
Republican supporter yesterday going to get this done."
and cleared a key Senate hurdle, a There were fresh challenges.
double-barreled triumph that pro- Within minutes of the vote, labor
pelled President Barack Obama's unions and large business organi-
signature issue toward votes this zations both demanded changes in
fall in both houses of Congress. the bill, which was an attempt at a
"When history calls, history middle-of-the-road measure fash-
calls," said Maine Republican ioned by the committee under Bau-
Olympia Snowe, whose declara- cus' leadership.
tion of support ended weeks of Still, nearly nine months after
suspense and provided the only the president pledged in his Inau-
drama of a 14-9 vote in the Sen- gural Address to tackle health
ate Finance Committee. With her care, legislation to expand cover-
decision, the 62-year-old law- age to millions who lack it has now
maker bucked her own leadership advanced further than President
on the most high-profile issue of Bill Clinton's ill-fated effort more
the year in Congress, and gave the than a decade ago - or any other
driveto remakehealth care atleast attempt in more than ageneration.
$1.*00 OFF anym
grande specialty D
beverage ip
1741 Plymouh Rd " Ann Arbor'
BIGGBY
j for franchise info www.biggby.com COFFEE
Good at this location only. Not good with any other offer.
No copies of this coupon will be accepted. Offer expires 10/20/09.
S U 3o U

ON THE WEB, ON
TWITTER, ON FACEBOOK AND IN PRINT
No matter the platform, the Daily keeps you connected to the
news you need to know.
Take your senior portrait NOW
Tt will als be indlt.ded in the~ Michig nen in Yearbook
10/14 thru 10/16
Weds thru Fri
Location: Sophia B. Jones Room the Union
;

,;I

.
, ,,
S Y is
'. by
g s$
fl ff
r
r
3
,..,.... '. t V wx. g _,.


Graduate School
Information Fair 2009
oda
The Michigan Union, 4pm-7pm
Meet with over 100 graduate schools
from across the country
Explore options, collect application
information and ask about financial aid
Visit The Career Center's website for a
list of schools scheduled to attend
Your Story. Your Community T Your Presentation

schedule your portrait onlie
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
ifrltis ihoupon wi'th you artl get
~yyyctncnoin 2 OF you S'ihitn t""!t**

41


4A - Wednesday, October 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

c l e tic[ ig n ail


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
x, t z n420 Maynard St.
;ei"Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tathedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the officialposition ofthe Daily's editorialboard.All othersigned articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
Good, clean fun
Students must be supportive of those in recovery
Many students have a difficult time adjusting to college
life. Complete self-reliance is a trial for students away
from home for the first time, and the stress of school
is a lot to deal with. For recovering addicts, this is made even
more difficult by the struggle to stay clean. But with the found-
ing of the new student group Students for Recovery, there is a
new resource and support group for students recovering from
substance abuse. For this group to be successful, students need to
recognize the difficulties that recovering addicts face on campus
and promote an atmosphere of understanding and support.

She's a chip off the old block, and I don't
mean that as a compliment:'
-Huffington Post Editor Roy Sekoff, commenting on Liz Cheney launching a program aimed at
painting Obama's foreign policy as "radical", as reported yesterday by the The Huffington Post.
Moore's misguided attack

Students for Recovery was created by
Ivana Grahovac, a School of Social Work
graduate student. Grahovac, who dealt
with a five-year addiction to heroin, hopes
to create a support network for peers com-
bating addiction. She found that the social
opportunities presented to her in a college
setting often centered on the consumption
of alcohol, which makes for dangerous ter-
ritory for recovering addicts. Grahovac is
working with the School of Social Work
and University Health Service officials to
createa fun and healthy support system for
student addicts.
One of the main goals of Students for
Recovery is to combat the stigma often asso-
ciated with addiction. People recovering
from addictions are often portrayed as hav-
ing dysfunctional lives. And the prevalence
of alcohol and college parties can present
a difficult choice for recovering addicts -
enter a dangerous environment or face ostra-
cism. Providing recovering addicts with an
environment that's safe and fun could great-.
ly assist them in managing their addictions
while still enjoying college life.
And while a support system of students
who have experienced many of the same
struggles will prove helpful, Students for

Recovery needs the support of other stu-
dents, too, if it is to be successful. Students
need to be aware of the problems that
the stereotypical college party poses for
recovering addicts and be understanding
of those who need to avoid addictive sub-
stances. They should also participate in
Students for Recovery, because recovering
addicts shouldn't feel segregated from the
campus community.
The University, to its credit, has already
done its part to get behind Students for
Recovery. The School of Social work and
University Health Services have commit-
ted themselves to assisting in creating a
healthy environment for students with
addictions - as they should have. It's the
University's responsibility to promote a
message of acceptance, and it's good that
the University has recognized this. The
University already provides resources like
counseling services, but this new group
extends the network of support.
Substance abuse can be a debilitating and
painful issue. But Students For Recovery
will help students looking to move beyond
these hardships and enjoy college life. This
effort should be one that other students
and the University can get behind.

While watching the latest
Michael Moore film, "Cap-
italism: A Love Story," I
was surprised how
much 0 agreed
with him. He made
excellent points, 4
including his con-
demnation of the
bank bailouts, hisz
scathing depiction '
of Goldman Sachso
and its influence in V
the Treasury, and VINCENT
the horrific scenes PATSY
of teenagers being
held at a privately
owned juvenile detention center in
West Virginia. I was surprised to find
myself agreeing with Moore because
I am a supporter for capitalism, the
very system that Moore professes to
attack in the film.
Which brings me to the movie's
obvious flaw: Moore has a false idea
of what capitalism really is. He views
it as an economic system of privately
owned companies making profits
with little or no regulation or taxa-
tion. This is a commonly held view by
those on both the right and the left,
but it misses the key component of
capitalism. True capitalism, or free
enterprise, involves privately owned
companies makingjust profits. Profits
are acquired justly when both parties
agreeing to the exchange believe that
they will benefit and they exchange
goods voluntarily.
The difference between Moore's
definition of capitalism and the cor-
rect one is demonstrated in an early
scene in the movie with a scheme that
involves corrupt judges and a juvenile
detention center. In Pennsylvania, a
company called PA Child Care was
able to lobby judges for the closure
of a public juvenile detention center.
The company then built its own facil-

ity and the same judges packed this Some people maythink that Moore
center by sentencing teenagers for is a conspiracy theorist for his abso-
just about anything, all in the name lutely correct analysis of the "power
of profit. elite" in the banking community, the
Moore uses this incident as evi- same people who used their power to
dence against capitalism, but what secure the Troubled Asset Relief Pro-
occurred in this case wasn't really gram bailout in September 2008. But
capitalism - the company was earn- he's quite right: Wealthy bankers got
ing profits unjustly. The judges were together with Congress and secured
much stricter in enforcing crimes a bailout that everyone else had to
against teenagers, and taxpayers pay for.
were forced to pay for teens' room
and board at the PA Child Care facil-
ity. An arrangement where business
teams up with the government to New film a critique
forcibly take money from taxpayers
isn't capitalism - a better term would of corporatism
be corporatism or even fascism.
Compounding Moore's intellec- not capitalism.
tual error regarding capitalism is-
a somewhat erroneous view of his-
tory. His view is that after World
War II, Americans became wealthy In criticizing the current econom-
and a middle class was built. Then ic system, Moore proposes worker's
Reagan was elected, and through his co-ops as a praiseworthy alternative
"capitalistic" reforms, the richer got to the typical business arrangement.
richer while the poor stayed poor and Under these co-ops, workers get to
the middle class joined them. There vote on each other's pay. What Moore
certainly are elements of this story doesn't understand is that worker's
I agree with, notably the reduction co-ops are completely acceptable
of the middle class since the Reagan under true capitalism. There should
Era. But the Reagan financial sector be no laws telling people that they
takeover was miniscule compared to need to have a business of x size mak-
an earlier takeover that took place ing y profits and paying workers z
as a result of the Panic of 1907 - the amount. If workers are happier with
founding of the Federal Reserve. lower wages as long as they have the
With the goal of providing a sta- power to vote, then businesses will
ble economy and price level, seven adopt this system.
powerful bankers and legislators got Under capitalism, there would
together in November 1910 and rode a be no bailouts, no unjust profits by
train in secret to Jekyll Island, a pre- exploiting teenagers' crimes and
miere resort in Georgia, and hashed workers would be absolutely free to
out what would become the Federal participate in co-op systems. The fact
Reserve. The Fed is the banker's that Moore and I agree on these points
bank, and all of its actions necessar- demonstrates that his beef is with
ily benefit large banks at the expense corporatism, not true capitalism.
of people. It is a big counterfeiter and
provider of bailouts to rich corpora- - Vincent Patsy can be reached
tions that cuddle up to it. at vapatsy@umich.edu.



0j
S

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina AmilineniEmad Ansari, Emily BartonBen Caleca,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
ROSE JAFFE E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU
\
4 1 tKUl'>)
\
7

ALEX SCHIFF|I
Education needs funding to function

I love it here. Over the course of my first month as a
freshman at the University, hardly a day has gone by that I
haven't overheard two people debating health care reform
over lunch, a group arguing about how to fix the economy
or friends discussingthe meaning of life. We live in a smart
place. And based on my past experience, that's not some-
thing to take for granted. The driving force of our intelli-
gent community is the high caliber of the state's education
system. And for this reason, it's essential for the future of
Michigan's intellectual and economic prosperity that the
state legislature avoid proposed cuts in education.
My high school education took place in two states with
two entirely different sets of educational values. I went to
North Farmington High School in Farmington Hills, for my
freshman year and Palm Harbor University High School in
Palm Harbor, Fla. for my final three. Having experienced
high school in Michigan and Florida, I gained insight into
the impact of their undeniable differences.
While statistics can't speak for powerful cultural forces
at work, they do show a clear difference in the priority edu-
cation receives in state budgets. According to the National
Center for Educational Statistics, the state of Michigan
spent $9,922 per public school student during the 2006-
2007 academic year. Florida spent only $8,567. This dispar-
ity is one of the reasons for Michigan's relative strength,
but the legislature seems ready to destroy this advantage.
The result of underfunding education is no mystery. As
of the 2005-2006 academic year, Michigan graduates 72.2
percent of its students, the NCES finds, and Florida gradu-
ates only 63.6 percent. At North Farmington, the notion of
"dropping out" was subject to ridicule. For many students
at Palm Harbor and across the state, it was considered a
legitimate option.
I once had an eye-opening conversation with a Florid-
ian friend who was considering dropping out - an idea
that draws more shame in North Farmington than saying,
"I love my new foreign car!" in Flint. When asked what he
was going to do with his life, my friend responded that he
would buy atruck. Buy a truck? Are you going to live in it?
How will you make money to buy the truck? What will you
do after you buy the truck? None of this mattered because,
as he put it, "school's boring." This lack of ambition is in

part a function of Florida not appropriately prioritizing
education.
Meanwhile, Michigan is poised to make drastic cuts in
education to close its budget deficit, including the possibil-
ity of cutting the Michigan Promise Scholarship. Educa-
tion, of all things, shouldn't be on the choppingblock when
it's the one hope for the salvation of our economy. Due to
the severity of the current recession and the overall drop
in revenues, we all understand there will be cuts. But we
must fight for every dollar of spending for education and
cut elsewhere.
Despite the political rhetoric, it's simply not possible to
pay for everything the state needs with current revenues.
In order to position ourselves for a better future and stop
this decline, we must accept the shared burden of a tax
increase today. If state support for education dwindles, our
already struggling economy will face another debilitating
challenge - a less educated work force. A tax increase that
preserves our work force and smart society, however dif-
ficult it may be to stomach, is vital.
Unfortunately, Michigan legislators have has proved
to be a bunch of children when it comes to budget issues.
Republicans have decided to help by - surprise - digging
in their heels and refusing any tax increase as a matter
of principle. Democrats, meanwhile, continue to promise
everything while paying for nothing. The evolution of poli-
tics as a circus act that places partisanship and ideology
over the common good is a development citizens do not
want. Both parties criticize and neither appears able to
change its position. I refuse to be content with sacrificing
education for petty, partisan name-calling.
Investing in our future today will give hope to the peo-
ple of Michigan for a better and more prosperous tomor-
row. If we fail to rise to the challenge, then we may have
to get used to these "state shutdown" shenanigans. When
I heard about the 2007 shutdown after moving to Flori-
da, I laughed at its absurdity. But as a Michigan resident,
when I saw coverage of this year's shutdown last week in
the Daily, I just shook my head in disappointment and
asked, "This again?"
Alex Schiff is an LSA freshman.

0


"Student addicts" was insensitive
headline in Daily article
TO THE DAILY:
Addiction is a major health issue in this country, affect-
ing people addicted to substances and those around them.
But whathappens when a substance abuser stops using? Is
there a magic cure to fix the entire stigma that surrounds
the fact that they're in recovery from drugs and alcohol?
Many people in recovery would probably say no. But at
the University, this is where our student organization,
Students for Recovery, steps in. One of our main goals
is to reduce the stigma that people in recovery are bad
or wrong, and assert that addiction is a disease that can
affect anyone, anywhere, with any kind of background.
A recent Daily article was meant to bring to light Stu-
dents for Recovery, and the article did that for the most
part (New group aims to help student addicts, 10/07/2009).

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
The only problem is that the title of the piece is not sen-
sitive to people in recovery by using the term "student
addicts." The word "addict" is not culturally sensitive
to this population because of the negative connotation
it comes with, yet the editors chose this specific word to
catch the reader's attention. I believe it did catch some
attention, but not necessarily ina positive way.
Also, the Students for Recovery group is not only aimed
to help students in recovery, but also students who sup-
port them and students who just want a sober alternative
to all the pressure to drink and use in college. The title
does not convey this idea.
Although the article was very positive toward the orga-
nization, I feel the heading should have been more sen-
sitive toward people in recovery. Technically speaking,
wouldn't a "student addict" be a person who is addicted
to school?
Ashley Dominique
School of So ial Work


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 14, 2009 - SA

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 14, 2009 - 5A

Girl problems

a

COURTESY OF ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS

Apparently fashion models are cold-blooded.
This behind-the-scenes look digs deep
can't quite get to the bottom of Vogl
By Emily Boudreau I Daily Arts Writer

On screen, with her perfectly
coiffed bob and dark sunglasses,
Anna Wintour
(editor-in-chief **-
of American
Vogue maga- The
zine) radiates et
power and effi-
ciency. She is ISSue
easily one of the
most influential At the Michigan
and important Roadside Attractions
women in the
fashion world. And, in a documen-
tary like "The September Issue,"
an audience would expect the film
to delve into Wintour's complex
psyche, getting at the underbelly of
the fashion world.
Director R.J. Cutler makes a
mistake, though, by underestimat-
ing Wintour. Her whole life has
been dedicated to the idea of image
control, of retouching photographs
and creating perfection in fashion
and appearances. Cutler attempts
to catch her with her guard down,
S and for that he is a fool. Through

the film, her reputation a
ilish woman in Prada doe
rialize. Without capturin
Wintour, the film fails t
the true spirit of Vogue.
"The September Issue'
to explore the inner wo
Wintour's empire durini
ation of the 2007 Septer
of Vogue. It was the lar
to date, spanning 840 pa
and spreads worth hut
thousands of dollars.
For about the first 30
the film struggles to fin
hold. Wintour and her la
polished and never onc
sweat in front of the cam
know how to fashion th
too well. It is not until G
dington, the creative
comes into the' pcture th
starts to really take off.
Coddington is the
voice of the-magazine,
proclaimed "romantic" i
that has sold its soul for
She keeps the movie fror

high
but shallow as the indu
creates some of thei
ue. photographs in the
Coddington, fashion
ficial - it's art. The
her relationship with
s the dev- two women were hir
sn't mate- time and it's their cl
g the real alities that drive th
o capture the success it has ac
Coddington sli
'attempts making sarcastic c
rkings of manipulating Wint
g the cre- posely discusses herl
sber issue of the camera crew t
gest issue later admits, she k
ges of ads an increase in it. Co
ndreds of brings in the film's l
man to model ina ph
minutes, in an effort to publ
td a foot- untouched by Photos
ckeys are Wintour. Contrary
e break a desires, hisprotrudin
era. They not be edited out oft]
eir image While the dynam
race Cod- two women is incred
director, ing,the filmcouldstil
at the film other aspects of the
try. Very little time is
creative politics behind the
the self- how what shows up
n a world dictated by money a
glamour. Companies pay to gi
m being as inthepagesofthema

fashion
stry itself and less of how unpractical or ugly they
most beautiful are. Vogue's job is to create a desire
magazine. For for them. "nThe September Issue"
is not super- never delves into this side of the
film explores industry, and the film would have
hWintour. The benefited if it had.
ed at the same There are also many other per-
ashing person- sonalities that add color to the
e magazine to magazine but are not developed
hieved. in the film. Andre Leon Talley, the
nks around American editor-at-large, is par-
omments and ticularly entertaining as he comes
our. She pur- to represent the shallower, more
budget in front ridiculous side of the magazine. He
because, as she takes up tennis because Wintour
new she'd get snarkily told him to lose weight.
ddington even Talley shows up at the court with
portly camera- six Louis Vuitton carrying cases
oto shoot then, for his accessories and refuses to
lish the image take a Louis Vuitton sweat-towel
shop, overrides off of his neck.
to Wintour's "The September Issue" man-
agstomachwill ages to preserve a little spark of
he magazine. the beauty and glamour that exists
ic between the in the fashion industry before it
libly entertain- is branded with a label. The film
lhaveexplored keeps up the pretense that fashion
fashion indus- is fun, but similarly,"tats onTy
devoted to the surface-level entertainment. Cut-
magazine and ler clearly had loftier ambitions
in the pages is but Wintour manag 1fo PlalIhec
nd advertising. strings behind the movie and keeps
et their clothes him from delving too deeply into
gazineregard- the w'rld of Vogue.

By ERIC CHIU
DailyArts Writer
Given that the first word in Com-
edy Central's name is "comedy,"
it would be safe
to assume the
network's stock-
in-trade is being Secret
funny. Comedy ,
Central's flag- Girlfriend
ship shows - Wednesdays
"The Daily Show at10:30 p.m.
With Jon Stew- Comedy Central
art," "The Col-
bert Report" and
"South Park" - certainly deliver
on that promise, but "Secret Girl-
friend," the network's latest addi-
tion, doesn't encourage laughter so
much as it encourages hitting your
head with a lead pipe repeatedly to
forget what you just saw.
"Secret Girlfriend" is an adap-
tion of an online video series from
AtomicWedgieTV.com. It follows
three 20-somethings and their trib-
ulations as single guys. The show's
big hook is that you're part of the
group - the entire show is shot
from a first-person perspective,
with all of the characters directly
addressing you via the camera.
The show's Apatow-like promos
unabashedlyaim at its target demo-
graphic, with generous amounts of
flatly written masturbation and sex
jokes. But the show doesn't do any-
thing beyond this empty premise.
A lightweight plot runs through
each episode - the pilot has "You"
going out on a beer run for your
friends after a breakup, meet-
ing romantic interest Jessica (Sara
Fletcher, "Redearth88") and watch-
ing friends Sam (Michael Blaiklock,
"Fired Up!") and Phil (relative new-
comer Derek Miller) filmviralvideos,
allwhile dealingwithyourpsychotic,
nymphomaniac ex-girlfriend (Alexis
Krause, "The Singles Table").
Krause notwithstanding, the
cast does the best it can with the
meager material it has been given.
There's sonething appealingly stu-
pid about Sam and Phil's faux-viral
videos- -the pilot has the'i film-
ing videos like "Toaster Head" and
"Fork Head," where Phil gets beat-
)ki' iinihehead with; resp ttively,'

a toaster and a fork. Still, Fletcher
is a surprisingly strong presence
onscreen.
Among the show's numerous
problems, though, is that it feels
like "Secret Girlfriend" was predi-
cated on nothing much beyond hav-
ing an excuse to watch a parade of
cleavage and scantily clad females
on basic cable every week. The
guys' leering point of view toward
the opposite gender makes Tucker
Max look like Gloria Steinem - the
girls who aren't strippers, models
or models who happen to be strip-
ping exist solely for "You" and your
friends to either have sex with or
talk about having sex with.
It's not helped by the first-person
conceit, which doesn't bring much
to the viewing experience besides
the occasional bout of nausea. The
show still feels like a standard sit-
com that just happens to be filmed
in first-person andthe gimmick kills
the show's half-hearted attempts at
building a narrative.
Admittedly, the characters are
.all already thinly written stereo-
types and episodes are basically a
series of loosely strung together
You are the star
in this disaster.
vignettes. The problem is, "You"
never respond to anything the
other characters do or say. Having
the characters do nothing besides
continually react to "You" makes
the show's attempts at character-
ization and plot fall flat.
But really, trying to pick apart
something like "Secret Girlfriend"
misses the point, or the lack there-
of. "Secret Girlfriend" isn't a show
so much as it's a loosely assembled
video collage of breasts, extend-
ed shots of female behinds and
dick jokes, with something barely
resembling a plot tying all of this
together. That being said, it's easy
to see why Comedy Central picked
the show up, but considering the
end product, "Secret Girlfriend"
would have been better off staying
online.

Built to Spill keeps on trucking

By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Assistant Editor
Doug Martsch, frontman of ven-
erable rock stalwart Built to Spill
and one third of
indie rock's Holy ***
Bearded Trinity
(Iron & Wine's Built to Spill
Sam Beam and
Bonnie 'Prince' There is no
Billy, aka Will Enemy
Oldham, com- Warner Bros.
plete the tri-
umvirate), seems impervious to
change. But it's not like he needs to
embrace it. With every release of
a Built to Spill album comes some
automatic good news - namely,
that it will sound just like every
other Built to Spill album. Again,
this is good news.
Built to Spill's brand of rock
is similar to our nation's other
. top brand names in that it's both
consistent and consistently sat-
isfying. Like Coca-Cola, McDon-
ald's fries and Bud Light, Built to
Spill's releases combine a warm-
blanket sense of familiarity with
that initial, refreshing taste that
immediately affirms why they're
so well-loved. The band knows
this - take a look at past albums'
opening tracks: Perfect From Now

Keep It Like a Secret's "The Plan,"
You In Reverse's "Goin' Against
Your Mind." Those are some of the
finest first sips in any indie-rock
band's catalog.
But enough with the beverage
metaphors. There Is No Enemy is
Built to Spill's most recent album
and only the third proper one the
band has released in the new mil-
lennium. Like every new Built to
Spill album since PerfectFrom Now
On, it differs from its predecessors
only by slight degrees.
For one, there are fewer - but not
many fewer (see the seven-minute
"Done") - spacey, solo-riddled jams
that push songs past the six- or sev-
en-minute mark. For two, Martsch
abandons You In Reverse's and Per-
fect From Now On's emphasis on
guitar- and riff-based songs for a
more holistic, full-band approach.
But again, there are still some killer,
song-making guitar lines (especial-
ly noteworthy are the spiky, punky
stadium-ready rockers "Pat" and
"Planting Seeds").
Martsch, as usual, tackles
weighty topics and asks some
big questions. On "Oh Yeah," the
album's jammiest and most mel-
ancholic track, he apparently sums
up his theology in totality: "And if
god does exist / I am sure he will

see / h
self se
along w
ture an
how un
beliefs..
makes f
poignar
Cont
rock's
Martsc
There
with lif
the mit
Martsc
produc
more yr
A
you lov
will be
want li'
He
memor,
album's
mark h

ow unlikely he made him- he complains, "Hindsight's given
em." Martsch's delivery, me / too much memory / There's
vith the song's loose struc- too much never seen," and fur-
d weeping solos, reveal just ther considers: "The tricks that are
sure he really is about his played with human brains." And
A sweet contradiction, it all if all this isn't enough to get your
for some very moving, very inner Nietzsche fired up, Martsch
nt tension. then asks one of humankind's
inuing his reign as indie most burning, universal questions:
resident philosopher, "What about Canada?" If only we
h spends a great deal of had an answer...
is No Enemy struggling Since all Built to Spill albums
fe, death and the nature of have similar themes, sounds, pro-
nd. On finale "Tomorrow," duction, etc., it comes down to the
h flips the notion of a good, relativestrengthofindividualsongs
tive life on its head: "The to determine whether the record is
tu have to live for /the more a success or not. That being said,
There is No Enemy doesn't have any
clear standouts like "Conventional
s consistent Wisdom" or "Randy Described
Eternity" on albums past. But it
CCca-cola. is remarkably solid from top to
bottom, with enough depth and
nuance to sustain the high stan-
e your life / the harder it dard of quality on which Built to
for you to die / and we all Spill's career has been predicated.
ving and dying easy." Is it among the best of the band's
questions the reliability of albums? I think not. But it's enough
y on "Hindsight," one of the of a success to ensure that the Built
highlights. In that trade- to Spill brand name lives on. And
igh-register, nasally voice, live on it does.

"Do vou ever think to yourself, 'Man, I'm so healthy."



You're Sick
LSA students, if you're concerned about flu season this
year, be sure to visit the LSA website. You can
self-report your illness and simultaneously inform your
instructors and advisor as well as read up on University
efforts to curtail the spread of H1N1 and other
potential campus outbreaks.
www.isa.umich.edu


6A-Wednesday, October 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

020 tdn
RECORDS FOR SALE. 33 1/3, 78.
$1 each. 810-635-2232. .. ;

025
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available.: Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
for rent
1060 -
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully famished
Parking, free landry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
.!!! 4 LG. Bdrm. house. 5 person.
Mary Ct. at IM bldg. Ldry., prkg. May-
May $2210. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.

[K 1

E Univcrsity
Plan Ahead!
Reserve your housing with
University Towers!
Rising above U-M Central Campus,
University Towers offers fully
furnished rooms, studios,
1, 2 & 3 bedroom units.
Included in the rent is heat, water &
amazing high-rise style amenities.

The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop
students from thinking about housing early,
so whyishould you? Advertise leases for
now, May, and Fall oio! Reach over 40,ooo
students and other University members.
PresentedbyTheMichiganDailyClassifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy or
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
i ; Studio & 1
I drm.Units
Tower Plaza Condomilnium
734-663-1530
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.

1
r
r

AVAILABLE FALL2010
1225 White-6 bdrm.
341 E. Jefferson-8 bdrm.
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE NOW 1 or 2 bdrm. on
S. Forest near South U. 734-996-2836.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heal/waer incl., fitly6furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer. on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,W/D in unit,
$950/mo., all appliances, water in-
cluded. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani c/gmail.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
,
Management
12 Ca c S

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 65 Clownish 34 Above, in poems 47 Like eggs in an
1 Made a 66 Shore birds 36 Slow-moving, as Easter hunt
disapproving a river 48 Skinflints
sound DOWN 37 Penetrable 50 Big name in
6Witicism 1 Samples u hit of quality of skin perfumery
10 Highlander 2 Ball 38 Makes a cliche 51 Dramatint
14 Cop _: bargain 3 Loud auto honker of, say Chekhov
in court of yore 39 Exsyd 52 Tearful
15 Healing plant 4 "_ mouse!'' " E.poo
16 Oregon Treaty 5 Weekly septet 40 Typist's stat. 55 Letter after theta
president 6 Argonauts' leader 44 Crystalline 56 Drift, as an aroma
17 Trembling 7 Large antelope mineral 57 Shipwreck site
18 Having all one's 8 Tune 46 More petite 58 Air mover
marbles 9 Dainty laugh ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Word processing 10 Sudden gushing
reversal 11 Conspires (with) M O J O P A U L C O D S
20 Big Southwestem 12 Octogenarians, A N K A M A I N E A K I N
trmmones? e.g. C UR TAll N R OD M AG I
23 Endingor"ranch" 13 Boing ref's E O I N 0 0 T P I D
24 Neither Rep. nor decision WA L K A F I N EL I NE
Dem. 21 Whopper W L KSA F EL N
25 Thing creators
27 Madame, in 22 Lord's Prayer D E I T Y S M A R T E S T
Madrid words following E O N V C H I P D U O
30 Wide shoe size 'Thy will be S I G N H ER E O A S E S
31 Geese flight done" O O N A S O B B E R S
pattern 26Thus far H I G H L I G H T R E E L
32 Actress Greer 28Eye unsubtly A R R A Y E A T S F I X
who received five 29 Drizzly day ROAN O F F T H E H O O K
consecutive chapeau E N I D RAT 10 E R T E
Oscar 30 Some pass
nominations catchers
35 At the ready 33 Women xwordeditortaol.com 10/13/09
37 Refined 1 2 3 a 4 a e a 9 10 11 12 13
trombones?
40 Madeonaloom 14 15 16
41 Iintation
42 Med or law
lead-in 20 21 2
43 Command ctrs.
45 Musical beat 23 24 2s 26
49 Wells's "The
Island ofDr._" 27 28 2 00 31
51 Fill with wonder 32 33 34 38 3e
53 Jr.'s son
54 Continuously- at 3a8 s
playing
trombones? 4041
58 Clenched
weapon
59 Mechanical 8sa 1 51 s
60 Remarktothe 4 50 5se ,
audience
61 To ,_: perfectly9
62 Spo ysunroof 51 62 83
113 Baealcard
brand 64 s s
64 Wall St's "Big
Board" B

.625'Church St.
(734) 668 100
Now taking reservations
for fall 2010!
Studios, 1, 2,3,4, & 5 bdrms & Houses
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water ici. Bale., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$11l00-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Cult Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate ccupatcy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
PRESE:NTS THE
Onine Classiie
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

A
REALTY
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up toZO0 people
Immedate Occupancy Available
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
nexo o o siouze
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
NOW IS THE time to reserve your
Apartment for 2010/2011. Stop by Uni-
versity Towers to secure your apart-
ment TODAY! 734-761-2680.
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
RESERVE YOUR APARTMENT to-
day with University Towers. 2 Bed-
rooms starting at only $1259.00 and 1
Bedrooms at $553.00. 734-761-2680.
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
1 7 6
4 7
9 4 2
2 5 1 7
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.cois
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
WW4W.00FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. wlk. No Sept rent.
AD
VER
TISE
WITH

THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

0

LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS to
help save and protect history and open
spaces on Mackinac Island. Needed
also active involvement of professors
and departments, to help to save areas
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten- on the state park island, which has a
tial. No exp. nec., training provided. unique history and importance, nation-
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125. ally, but especially, because it is owned
ATTENTION STUDENTS by us, to Michigan. 1-866-MAC-ISLE
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors: M t s
Cale, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschiinto@brainfuse.com .
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NECTO IS ACCEPTING applica-
tions from energetic STUDENTS for:
Bartender, Cashier, Waitress, and Door-
person. Please apply IN PERSON, at
516 E. Liberty Mon-Wed from 12-4pm.
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
$300-$500. Get on the ground floor...
Act Now! http://www.ps 01.info

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon'Oiserv.net

0

For Thursday, Oct. 15, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You're in for a terrific, playful time for
at least six months ahead. Make plans
for vacations, entertaining, love,
romance, sports and playful activities
with children. Yeehaw!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
You're in a new phase where you're
determined to make changes at home.
Renovations or residential moves could
create domestic chaos for the rest of the
year, and longer.Yikes!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
All your communication with others is
going to be unusually direct and
assertive for the next six months. Just
don't bowl people over! Easy does it.
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
You're going tobe working extremely
hard to earn money for the next six
months. As might be expected, you'll
probably be spending a lot as well! Ka-
ching!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Not since 1994-95 has Mars been in
your sign for six months. (Every two
years, it usually stays there for about
seven weeks.) Your energy is returning
big time!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Activity behind the scenes, or secret
love affairs, will be atmajor focus in your
life for the rest of the year and well into
2010. (Sounds verrrry interesting.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You're going to be unusually active
with groups, clubs and organizations or
classes for the next six months. (What's
happening?) Caution against conflict
with someone.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Your ambition is aroused! Forthe next
six months, you will work very hard to
achieve whatever it is you wast to do.
No doubt about it.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Anything to do with travel, higher
education, publishing, the media, medi-
cine and the law will be a strong focus
for you in the next six months. You're
expanding your world!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan.19)
Disputes about shared property, inher-
itances, debt, taxes and anything you
own jointly with others could arise dur-
ing the next six months. Meanwhile,
your sex drive is heightened as well!
(Like, wow.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Fiery Mars opposes your sign for the
next six months. (Gulp) This makes rela-
tionships with partners very delicate and
touchy! (Patience.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You're going to be busting your buns
in the next six months. Circumstances
around you will force you to work very
hard -hbut you'll get a lot done!
YOU BORN TODAY Your quiet lead-
ership inspires respect. In large measure,
this is because you have intelligence and
knowledge in your area of expertise.
People are drawn to you, even spell-
bound on occasion. However, you some-
times shock others because your views
are outside of the norm. This year some-
thing is ending in order to create room
for something new. Next year is a fresh
new cycle!
Birthdate of: John Kenneth Galbraith,
economist; Penny Marshall,
Actress/director; Emeril Lagasse, chef.

S
0
S

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard,.Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com

2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

Deadline formJine ads is11:30am one businessday prior to publication
Rates: $4.30 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contact our stafffor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when adsare placed in personmwitha
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash or chck
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one oftour Account Executives

(r)2M T in Media Services, Inc.

10/14/091


4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 14, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October14, 2009 - 7A

she is interested in the environ-
MAJOR mental track within the Interna-
From Page 1A tional Studies major because it
"applies environmental studies to
"This major offers us an oppor- international issues."
tunity to switch reference fields Kollman has high hopes for the
so that we can actually become new major.
bi-lingual in the language of the "We're only six weeks into the
world as well as the language of semester and we have 25 stu-
America," Waltz said. dents," he said. "I think it will be a
Daniel Herwitz, director of the pretty popular concentration."
LSA Institute for the Humanities, If Kollman is right, the Univer-
further emphasized the value of sity has plenty of catching up to
preparedness by noting the role do. Many comparable universi-
the program will play in students' ties have had programs in Inter-
study abroad experiences, giving national Studies for upwards of
them the "skills to think about ten years.
what it is to be someplace." At Washington University in
"(Studying abroad) has to be St. Louis and Johns Hopkins Uni-
linked to a certain intellectual versity, International Studies is
preparation, so when you go, you the largest undergraduate major.
know enough about where the hell Emory, Indiana, Duke and Wis-
you are when you get off the plane consin also boast big numbers in
to be able to start listening to peo- International Studies concentra-
ple and what they have to say," he tors.
said. "Listening just doesn't come When asked why Michigan
out of nothing." lagged in the trend to establish an
Geared toward students who International Studies major, Koll-
hope to someday do work that man said the University wasn't in
spans oceans and cultures, the a rush to set up a program that
concentration will provide stu- wasn't up to its rigorous, innova-
dents with a range of skills for tive standards.
the "understanding of things "I think it took us a while to get
internationally," as Herwitz put it right, and that's what we did. We
it. didn't rush in to it. We took the
Lenora Paige, an LSA freshman time to make this a program that
who attended the discussion, said we'll be proud of," he said.
Public Safety spokeswoman.
CRIME Brown said that no weapon was
From Page 1A seen or implied at the time of the
robbery.
identifying someone." Brown identified the perpetra-
Dokshina described the man tor as a black male, about 40 or 50
as about six feet tall, dressed in years of age.
all black with a scruffy beard. She Dokshina said that the whole
said he appeared to be unarmed. event caught her very much off-
The man is believed to have been guard.
wearing a dark Carhart-type jack- "He seemed like a friendly
et and a black skullcap, according man too," Dokshina said, "how
to Diane Brown, Department of deceiving."
BECOME A FAN OF THE
DAILY ON FACEBOOK
And get instant updates on our top stories.

ENROLLMENT
From Page 1A
concerned with this decrease and
is making efforts to prevent a fur-
ther decline in minority numbers
through outreach programs.
"We certainly are concerned
about this, and we made every
effort possible to both identify
young students who are under-
represented to encourage them to
apply and then encourage them to
enroll," Spencer said.
Though the number of under-
represented minority students
who chose to enroll was down
this year, the number of underrep-
resented minority students who
applied to the University and the
number of those students accepted
increased during this past admis-
sions cycle, Spencer said.
According to Spencer, this
decrease in underrepresented
minority students who chose to
enroll at the University is also due
in part to the economic climate
and the inability to attract stu-
dents to visit the University due to
the recession.
Spencer said the ban on affirma-
tive action has also hindered the
University from recruiting stu-
dents based on race or ethnicity
and from presenting scholarships
based on such factors, which he
faults for the decrease in under-
represented minority students at
the University.
"And of course, the (amendment)
itself limits the amount of effort we
can put in both outreach and schol-

arship, and all those things were
very major factors," he said.
Spencer said while there is no
guarantee there willbe an increase
in underrepresented minority stu-
dents who enroll at the University
in the future, the University has
increased its outreach efforts to
high school students to educate
them on how to be successful when
applying to the University.
"There's no guarantee that we
can do anything when you can't
use race as one of your factors,"
Spencer said. "But we're going to
do everything we can to start early
outreach programs, identifying
students in the ninth, tenth grade.
"And we're going to enhance
the way that we are already com-
municating with them," Spencer.
continued. "(We've) got to re-dou-
ble those efforts to try and make
certain that we touch as many stu-
dents as we can."
Billy Evans, professor emeritus
of chemistry, who has been work-
ingwith the University's Centerfor
Education Outreach, said the Uni-
versity has been communicating
with underrepresented communi-
ties to prevent a further decrease
in enrollment numbers for under-
represented minority students.
"I think that in order to keep
enrollment figures trending
upwards, we're going to have to
find ways of letting that community
know that they are welcome here
and also we have to work at increas-
ing accessibility," said Evans, who
oversaw a study published last
spring on the trends in minority hir-
ing in the University faculty.

vi
F-
c5
w

ENROLLMENT'S UPS AND DOWNS
8000
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
*Total freshman enrollment Enrollmentoftunderrpresented minorities
Source: University oftMichigan Office oftthe Registrar

Though the University has
increased its efforts to draw under-
represented minority students
since the ban on affirmative action,
it is still premature to expect signif-
icant results from these outreach
programs, Evans said.
Evans said the University's com-
mitment to diversity should never
waver in the future.
"We all know that we can do
better, but it's just going to require
a lot of hard work," Evans said.
"But I think we should never stop
focusing on that until the partici-
pation level of underrepresented
minorities at the University begins
to approximate the representation
of the general population."
Despite the current economic
climate, the amount of financial
aid given out this year was also

at its highest in the history of the
University, according to the press
release.
Financial aid from the Univer-
sity was up 11.7 percent for under-
graduates, totaling $118 million
for the 2009-2010 academic year,
according to the report.
This increase in financial aid
came from a boost in Pell Grants,
an increase in work-study pro-
grams available and endowments
to the University, according to
Spencer.
"Those are the kind of things
we're puttingback into undergrad-
uate education because we want
all of our students to have a great
experience here," Spencer said.
- Mike Merar contributed
to this report.


MSA
From Page 1A
more control over its agenda and
a greater ability to focus on issues
that MSA can effectively address.
"This issue at hand is about our
community - whether or not it's
about our constituents or our com-
munity - and in the end it comes
down to items that we can act on,"
he said. "And time and again it's
proven that there are some things
that we can't act on."
Opponents of this resolution
said it restricted community mem-
bers' right to free speech. Rackham
Rep. Kate Stenvig said MSA doesn't
operate "in a bubble" separate from
national and international topics.
"We are leaders not just for day-

to-day goings-on of the University,
but in a larger society and in a larger
world, and these things do matter,"
Stenvig said. "There's a reason why
this assembly has for years been
open for community members com-
ing to speak to us. We have a con-
nection to the outside world."
Public Health Rep. Hamdan
Yousuf said even though the resolu-
tion would have continued to allow
any student to come in and speak, it
could cause hesitation.
"Show us yourID, that's a demean-
ing rule," he said. "We're here to
serve the students. This resolution is
demeaning to the students."
Rep. Andrew Chinsky, in an
attempt to demonstrate the incon-
venient nature of the current policy,
showed off some actingskills.
Holding a sign that read "we are

PennState,"Chinsky,whowasinfavor
of the proposal, played the part of Joe
Paterno, the Nittany Lions' long-time
head coach. He proceeded to trash-
talktheUniversityofMichigan.
Afterward, Chinsky explained
that he was illustrating how anyone
can come in and address MSA about
any topic under the current code.
He said the assembly needs to
focus on the concerns of its constit-
uents: the students.
"We're talking about democracy
and free speech but we have to make
sure that it's not watered down and
not given to people who don't need
it," Chinsky said. "We are here to
protect the democracy and free
speech rights of our students."
Rep. Michael Benson, chair of
the Rules and Elections Commit-
tee, which sponsored the resolu-

tion, said he was pleased with the
debate, even though the outcome
was not what he had hoped for.
"I think that there were some
issues that wereblownup and some
other issues that were understated,
so I imagine the committee will take
the issue up again at some point in
the future," he said.
Chinsky said the resolution was
widely supported by the Michigan
Vision Party, but that the party does
not yet have enough seats on the
assembly to pass it.
"This is definitely going to be a
campaign issue in the upcoming
November elections," Chinsky said.
"This is somethingbthat we care very
deeply and passionately about."
Heather Poole
contributed to this report.

GARDASIL.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16, and 18) Vacdne, Recombinant]
EARASIL IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AND MANY
PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS* COVER IT.
TALK TO YOUR CAMPUS HEALTH CENTER
OR OTHER HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL


0

8A - Wednesday, October 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


01

Fuzetti slow with
his hair, not his feet

By CAITLIN SMITH
For the Daily
Mauro Fuzetti may be quick on
his feet, but he has little concept of
time.
"Anyone that knows Mauro
knows he takes forever to get
ready," said senior defender Julian
Robles of his friend and teammate.
"We'll be going out and Mauro will
just be sitting there with his hands
fixing his hair for like 20 minutes,
and you can't even notice a differ-
ence. Then he will try on five dif-
ferent T-shirts."
Robles says that the team always
waits on Fuzetti, no matter where
they go, soccer-related or not.
However, with 23 career goals,
it seems as though he is a player
worth waiting for.
Fuzetti, a senior forward for the
Michigan men's soccer team, is
one of the Wolverines' top offen-
sive talents, especially since the
loss of last year's leading scorer,
Peri Marosevic.
Fuzetti currently leads the
Wolverines (1-2-0 Big Ten, 8-3-1
overall) with 19 points, including 8
goals. In just 12 games, Fuzetti has
managed to attempt 47 shots.
When it comes to preparing for
a game, Fuzetti doesn't agree with
his teammates about taking too
much time. He said he has no pre-
game rituals or superstitions. He
simply listens to music and gets in

an early breakfast.
During his last three years at
Michigan, Fuzetti has defined
himself as a top talent. He was
named to the NSCAA/Adidas All-
Great Lakes Region second team
(2008), the All-Big Ten first team
(2008), the All-Big Ten freshman
team (2006), and is the fourth play-
er in program history to record a
hat trick (Sept. 19, 2008), all in the
shadow of Marosevic.
This season, the Wolverines
are 7-0-0 when Fuzetti scores and
1-3-1 when he goes scoreless.
"I feel like I have a little bit of
extra pressure to score, because
when I do we come out with a vic-
tory," Fuzetti said. "Since I am a
forward, it is my job to score, but
also just getting on the ball a lot
and creating opportunities for
others."
Seeing as it is Fuzetti's final
season as a Wolverine, many are
wonderingwhere he'll be this time
next year. Fuzetti hopes to con-
tinue playing soccer for a Major
League Soccer team. If he does, he
will follow in the footsteps of for-
mer Michigan players Marosevic
and Michael Holody, who are both
active players in the MLS.
When asked what he thinks
about a potential job outside of soc-
cer, Fuzetti said, "I really haven't
thought too much about that."
Maybe he just needs some more
time.

0

0

Punter Zoltan Mesko averaged 53.8 yards per punt against lowa last Saturday. He punts with lowa's Ryan Donahue inthe offseason.
With Tweets and tips,
Filipovic hel--,ps Mesko

Walk-on freshman
Leslie Weisz a soldier,
athlete and scholar
By ZAK PYZIK Honor Society, a four-year letter-
Daily Sports Writer man in soccer and lettered in bas-
-- - -- ketball. Her work ethic has helped
Leslie Weisz awakes at 7:00 her bring a special personality to
a.m. sharp. Three days a week, the field.
she participates in grueling physi- "She is a really good team-
cal training courses and finishes mate," Koppinger said. "She is
the day with either cadet bond- really inspiring. When we get to
ing, leadership laboratories or her practice, she is always there run-
required three to five University- ning. Whenever I'm having a bad
authorized credits. day, she'd be the one to come and
Leslie Weisz is an Air Force get me out of it. Leslie is there for
ROTC cadet. everything that she can be there
Weisz has practice all week, for."
too. The Michigan native walked On the field, teammates rave
on to a varsity team to get involved about how she takes criticism dur-
in the University's elite athletic ing key moments and still listens
program and travel across coun- to her coach.
try. She is led by a coach who pre- "It isn't difficult to coach Leslie
viously headed the USA Women's at all," Michigan head coach Greg
soccer program. Ryan said. "If you try to correct
Leslie Weisz is on the Michigan her, she will not take it personally
women's soccer team. or get upset. That's an important
For the freshmen cadet, mid- quality."
fielder and engineering student, Having played just 114 minutes
the list goes on. She is involved this season, Weisz is still finding
in Circle K, a community service her role with the Wolverines. But
group on campus, and she intends she already has a start under her
to be an active member of Sigma belt against Marquette on Aug.
Kappa, the sorority to which she 30.
has pledged. Michigan leaves today for its
Such an agenda seems like an matchup against Purdue, sched-
unmanageable task for anyone, uled for Thursday. Weisz was on
especially a freshman. But not for the list to travel, but she won't
Weisz. participate due to an ROTC com-
"I try a lot, it's no doubt," Weisz mitment.
said. "It's probably one of the "She works really hard, and
hardest things. To do my work, she's definitely a good player,"
and to keep everything in line and Koppinger said. "She is very posi-
to manage my time is for sure the tive all of the time, and she has to
hardest thing." be. We always see her studying,
Said sophomore midfielder but yet she is always positive."
Kara Koppinger: "We never see For this weekend, Weisz has
her struggling. The only time is prioritized her anticipated Air
when Lene, our assistant coach is Force career over her athletic
running her head off at practice." endeavors.
Weisz is used to having a lot However, she will be back in
on her plate. In high school, she cleats on Monday evening to prac-
was the President of the National tice with her teammates.
IT FREE PRESS/FLAGSTAR O.18
'MARATHON 20
Unlvrs$ty of Phoenix
5K FUN RUN &
FITNESS WALK --a
Presented by Coumpuware ad e ILcod umcii
D10a.m.-3p-u.
FREE -ALL AGE
THE OFFCIAL MARATHON AFTERPARTY OPEN TO THE P UC
Ove pWfura eby tubW, ranVatdeArk, MW irFangos,
gadnC*" " fa reparth00mYr r if.
Mpor wdkin

By ANDY REID Or offers recruiting advice:
Daily Sports Editor "University of Iowa is looking
to scholarship a punter from the
It's pretty safe to say that noth- class of 2010. Send them your
ing Filip Filipovic Tweets about video."
will ever become a trending topic. But Filipovic, 31, does more
While hordes of Twitter users than scribble 140-character mes-
gossip about hazy celebrity rumors sages about the one of the most
or chuckle at yet another ridicu- nuanced positions in football. He
lous Tweet from Chad Ochocin- coaches at least 30 college punt-
co, Filipovic, under the handle ers, including Mesko, Iowa's Ryan
"TheKickingCoach," drops friend- Donahue and Michigan State's
ly reminders to the high school Aaron Bates. All in all, he said
and college punters and kickers eight current Big Ten kickers have
that follow him. benefited from his expertise.
"Punters: Football should Filipovic's relationship with
never be any closer to your body Mesko started about two years
than 'handshake' distance. When- ago.
ever punting or doing drills, keep "I have some family outside
it away," he Tweeted five days of Ann Arbor," Filipovic said in
before one of his disciples, Zoltan a phone interview last night. "I
Mesko, averaged 53.8 yards per watched Zoltan punt before, and
punt against Iowa and earned Big I just contacted him, and asked
Ten Special Teams Player of the him if he wanted any help with
Week honors. punt and his mechanics. We met
The former Dallas Cowboys up once, and he enjoyed working
punter occasionally gets more with me, so we kept up."
technical on his Twitter, too: "To The two talk at least once a
execute an end over end rugby week during the season, and Fili-
punt, drop the ball straight up and povic said they meet about once a
down, point the toe, and swing month. In the offseason, Mesko
your foot through bottom 3rd of has more time to practice and
the ball." often sees Filipovic for kicking

sessions.
Filipovic, who signed with
the Cowboys after the 2002 NFL
Draft, said a punter as experi-
enced as Mesko gains more from
one-on-one practices than group
sessions. But when the coach
hosts large kicking camps for
high schoolers, the college kickers
come to practice together - and
things can get competitive.
At Filipovic's camps, Mesko
and his Big Ten counterparts kick
against each other in contests,
which are filmed, so each punter
can review them later. The punt-
ers' get-togethers are a welcome
change to college practices, which
can sometimes be a lonely affair.
"I mean, a lot of kickers and
punters, you're off on your own in
practice and stuff like that," said
Donahue, who is averaging more
than 41 yards per punt at Iowa
this season. "It's nice to be able to
measure up to whoever your com-
petition is. So in the offseason,
you try to work out with as many
punters as you can."
Added Mesko: "Why we work
togetherisbecause- I don'tknow.
Kickers and punters get made fun
of a lot by the rest of the team. So

our special fraternity has to stick
together."
The rivalry between the Big _
Ten's punters ends there, though.
Although it may add a little
extra motivation to punt against
someone you practiced with over
the summer, when the punters get
in the game, it's more of an intro-
verted skill.
But that doesn't mean Mesko
and Donahue ignored each other
last Saturday, when the Wolver-
ines traveled to Iowa City.
"We joked around and stuff
before the game," Donahue said
after the game. "And he kicked
the crap out of the ball today, so
it was fun."
Filipovic said that kind of inter-
action was common for punters
and kickers in the college game.
But if Mesko moves on to the next
level, he may want to bone up on
his trash-talking, as well as his
punting skills.
"I guess it doesn't get really
competitive between kickers until
the NFL," Filipovic said. "It's
probably a real friendly compe-
tition for him now. It's not until
the NFL when guys get a little
meaner."

New strength coach has
Wolverines slimming down

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
When redshirt junior forward
Anthony Wright woke up each
summer morning and realized
the first thing he
had to do that day NOTEBOOK
was run, it's safe
to assume that he didn't exactly
spring out of bed.'
Luckily, redshirt sophomore
guard Laval Lucas-Perry was
there to make sure he did.
"That's just part of being a
leader, waking up for those runs
at 6:00 or 6:30," Wright said.
Lucas-Perry and Wright made
sure one woke the other for all of
those workouts, and the results
showed at the Michigan Media
Day yesterday, where the two
were noticeably slimmer and
leaner than the year before.
And they weren't the only
ones. Sophomore Zack Novak
has slimmed down significantly
as well.
"Their bodies have changed,"
coach John Beilein said. "They're
leaner, they seem like they're
quicker, I just like what I've seen
from them so far."
New strength and conditioning
coach Jon Sanderson, who came
to Michigan after spending the
last three years at Clemson, had
a significant hand in bringing the
players' weights down to where
they wanted by shedding fat and
adding lean muscle.
"We're trying to make them
stronger and more explosive than
before," Sanderson said. "All of
the agility training we do is to
make their move ore efficiently

on the court."
Lucas-Perry said the new
strength coach has clearly made
a difference.
"We do more lower body and
core strength which helps us be
more agile," Lucas-Perry said.
TOUGH ROAD TO START: Last
year, Michigan's nonconference
schedule included games against
Duke, Connecticut and UCLA.
Wins against UCLA and Duke
early in the year played a huge
role in ensuring the Wolver-
ines earned an NCAA Tourna-
ment berth for the first time in 11
years.
Thin year, the nonconference
schedule doesn't get much easier.
Michigan will travel to Orlan-
do to play in the Old Spice Classic,
with amacchop against Creighton
in the first round. Six of the eight
teams in the tournament played
postseason ball last year and four
of them made it to the NCAA
Tournament.
After that, Michigan takes
on Boston College as part of the
ACC/Big Ten Challenge, and on
Dec. 19, the Wolverines will face
perhaps their biggest test: travel-
ing to Lawrence, Kan., to play the
Jayhawks.
"'Wait a minute, you're going SAID ALsALAH/t
to Kansas to play and they're Sophomore Zack Novak is one ofa few Wolverines to slim down in the offseason.
coming back on a Saturday night last year on us, and that was an Beilein said Cronin has be
for our students?' " said Beilein, extra addition." looking good in practice.
referencing the team's game three INJURY REPORT: Redshirt "He ran a 5:53 mile today," B
days later at home against Coppin freshman Ben Cronin, who missed lein said. "For a 7-foot-1 guy,
State. "We've got to do this, and all of last year after undergoing runs pretty darn well."
this is the year to do it." hip surgery, is practicing again Freshman Jordan Morgan, w
Beilein isn't worried about the with the team. underwent knee surgery in ea
schedule hurting his team. "I'm excited to get back going July, is expected back in pract
"May it backfire?" he said. "I and excited to help the team how- "within the next two week
don't think Connecticut backfired ever I can," Cronin saidr according to Pieilein.

0

en
ei-
he
ho
rly
ice
s,"

A


* 0

0

0


Evacuated from Lebanon

have been lucky enough to say
that I spend almost every sum-
mer in my favorite vacation
spot, Lebanon. Lebanon is not only
where my parents were born and
all my relatives live, but it is also my
second home.
Igrewup listening to adults ban-
tering about politics and not really
understanding where all the ethno-
religious divides stemmed from.
After all, I never lived through
the hellish 20-year civil war that
my parents did. The only Lebanon
I was familiar with was the one I
called my summer utopia - full of
worry-free days spent by the beach,
falling asleep in the car while driv-
ing through the mountains and
savoring the flavors of Mediterra-
nean cuisine, all the while blanket-
ed in unparalleled hospitality and
friendliness.
It was around 9 a.m. on July 13,
2006 when that idyllic view was
disrupted. My family and I were
woken up by a phone call from my
uncle back in the United States ask-
ing if we were all right. We turned
on CNN and learned that the Rafik
Hariri International Airport had
been bombed by the Israeli mili-
tary.
After Hezbollah militants had
shot missiles at Israeli soldiers,
Israel retaliated against Lebanon
with massive air strikes, artillery
fire, and air and naval blockades.
My family and I were closed off
from the world - escape was virtu-
ally impossible.
Although the region we were in
was not Israel's main target, Leba-
non is such a small country that if
anything spun out of control, our
lives would be in severe danger.
MOMENTOS
From page 7B
journalism.
Representatives from each
industry attended the fair to give
advice to women about how to
prepare for careers in the field.
Students interested in airline
hostessing were told to prepare
with "study in geography, pub-
lic speaking, drama, psychol-
ogy and home economics." Other
representatives seemed to accept
the limits of women in the work-

There was nothing we could do for
10 fear-ridden days and nights but
listen to fighter jets, sonic booms
and distant bomb explosions.
My family, like many other tour-
ists that summer, contacted the
United States embassy for support
and insight as to when a cease-
fire might occur. After several
days, rumors surfaced that United
Nations countries were in the pro-
cess of negotiating a temporary
ceasefire so that their respective
citizens could be evacuated safely.
We received a phone call at mid-
night informing us of a naval evac-
uation later that morning. If we
wanted to be evacuated, we were
to arrive at the port by 4 a.m. with
only one suitcase for all of us. With
bittersweet excitement, we fit what
we could into our family suitcase
and drove down the ghostly moun-
tain to find thousands of Lebanese
Americans waiting to be herded to
safety.
After several hours, Lebanese
soldiers began to lead people closer
to the port in organized lines so
that American forces could proper-
ly check us into customs. We stood
in the same spot for over 12 hours,
baking in excruciating heat while
watching helicopters hover along
the coast. I tried to relax, but the
scene of Israeli battle ships block-
ing the horizon and the intense
shouts of Lebanese and Americans
were impossible to ignore. At that
moment, I truly felt like a refugee.
But when I finally spotted my
reprieve - a group of three U.S.
military ships waiting for us to
board - I began to feel a sense of
pride and excitement. I felt like I
was placed in a war film with fear-
place, like Laura Pringle, fashion
editor of the Detroit Free Press,
who advised aspiring journal-
ists, "Journalism is one of men's
most jealously guarded profes-
sions...the most opportunities for
women are in the society depart-.
ment."
It appears that Mortar Board
is the only survivor of the origi-
nal women societies. It's unclear
whether the other societies
merged with Mortar Board or
were simply lost with the chang-
ing times. Mortar Board has
changed as well, especially with

less U.
save th
starkly
tern fo
behind
The
hope of
super I
strikeA
the Le
nation
As I h
H
m
Isr
nation
Intern
is the
is the
world?
I wa
advent
but my
at the
They
hoping
not tar
ters th
20 yea
toll ris
Afte
ted on
sibling
explor

S. intelligence coming in to vessel. We ran to the cafeteria, the
e day. But my own relief was navigation rooms, the bedrooms
contrasted with my con- and bathrooms. During our avid
r the Lebanese I had to leave explorations, U.S. Navy personnel
1. freely and willingly explained the
Lebanese did not have any uses of any technology we came
f being salvaged by a foreign across. They served us in their caf-
power. To them, the 34-day eteria and ensured every refugee
was a haunting reminder of had acot, mattress or bedroom.
banese Civil War that the About 6 p.m. on the day we
was still recovering from. boarded, we watched a helicop-
eard one Lebanese say on ter lower onto a landing pad and
release several disabled U.S. citi-
zens. It was an amazing experience
to see how well we were treated
low the U.S. and how accommodating our coun-
try was to all citizens regardless of
ilitary helped age, religion or physical abilities. It
was an all or nothing evacuation.
le escape the On day two of the evacuation, we
z lah arrived in Cyprus, where we were
ael-Hezbol h tobe transported to a refugee camp
two hours away. I imagined a dirt
W ar patch covered with tents, hungry
children and distressed parents.
But what we found were several
huge warehouses stocked with
al television, "Where is the food, toiletries, cots, pillows, blan-
ational Community? Where kets, international phone cards,
Security Council? Where wireless Internet and even a Pizza
U.N.? Where is the whole Hut. Although there weren't show-
We are under fire!" ers, the first class service exceeded
is embarking on an exciting the little expectations I had.
ure with the U.S. Marines, The refugees were divided into
friends and family were still smaller groups and taken from
mercy of a foreign power. Cyprus one at a time. Our group
were hiding in their homes, hitched a ride with an Air Force
their neighborhoods were cargo plane en route to the U.S.
'geted, preparing bomb shel- airbase in Ramstein, Germany.
at hadn't been used in about The plane was quite different than
rs and watching the death any commercial flight I had ever
e by the minute. taken. There were about 10 rows of
r we were finally admit- seating, with all the excess space
to the U.S.S. Trenton, my behind the seats used to transport
s and I excitedly began to cargo. The interior walls were
e every crevasse of the huge exposed wiring and machinery.

The engines were so obtrusively
loud that we were given earplugs to
mute the racket. After a four-hour
flight, we landed in Ramstein and
were given extremely strict rules
to follow. For example, photogra-
phy was forbidden to assure that no
confidential information about the
base was leaked.
The next day, a cargo plane took
us to a base in New Jersey. We then
took a bus to a commercial airport
where we were greeted by the Red
Cross - with warm, homecooked
meals, candy and stuffed animals -
and other friendly Americans who
were eager to hear about all the
details of our evacuation. It was one
of the most emotional days of my
life. I didn't think I had deserved
such treatment from our country's
national defense. Even though I
was enthralled by my country's
benevolence, I was also dismayed
by the fact that the majority of the
world's population does not have
the- same support. The thought
of leaving my family in Lebanon
vulnerable to raining bombshells
tormented me. Their government
couldn't provide their citizens with
any sense of security until the war
ended due to international inter-
vention 20 days later.
Because of the war, it had taken
my family and I over 72 hours, two
cars, one troop transport boat, one
Navy ship, two Air Force cargo
planes and one commercial flight
to get back home to Grosse Pointe,
Mich. Life returned to normal, but
I had a more profound appreciation
for both national security and the
ravages of war.
-Jessica Malouf is an LSA junior.

the acceptance of men in 1979
around the time of Title IX.
"Upon finding this informa-
tion, we realized what a rich his-
tory we have, and my hope is that
we can use this history to keep up
tradition and possiblyreintroduce
some traditions into the organiza-
tion," Mickey-Pabello said.
The groups' efforts to improve
the life of campus women, no mat-
ter how dated they seem, show
the determination of many over
the years to ensure females were
seen as equals and as assets to the
University.

BECOME A
FACEBOOK FAN
OF THE DAILY.
Find us by searching "The
Michigan Daily" on Facebook.



Sdk .d .S.

S wTe ihgaSaly WdesaOcoe 1,20

0 0

0

0

Wednsday. Octber- 4,009-TeMcignDiy 7

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson

new rules
rule 215: Don't
wear a football
shirt that has a
pledge to stay
all four quarters
unless you're
actually going to
stay. rule 216: If
you must ride your
bike in the street,
obey the rules of
the road. Sharing

The Ju
Center spri
C
Chanel Vonr

ink Drawer: goes two ways,
Brian Tengel asshole. rule 217:
ead design: Don't say, "We
Angela Chih need to hang out
over photo: soon." If that were
H abs burg-
Lothringen true, you wouldn't
have a problem
finding time to
hang out.
i /ihn n

Tha tf n is Th

i e raement isT r e Micnigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

eminis
After uncovering a box of club memorabilia,
Mortar Board rediscovered its history as the
University's first honor society for women
ByAshlyn Gurley, Statement Staff Writer
Today, mysteries are thought of as mostly fictional. But Anne Peck, a graduate stu-
last year, the University's chapter of Mortar Board was pre- dent in the class of 1881, sought
sented with an opportunity to learn about its origins after employment at the University after
receiving an unexpected gift from former members. graduation but was turned away on
Mortar Board is now a national senior honor society that account ofther gender: "Prof. Pattengill
accepts men and women who excel in scholarship, leadership wrote me in 1885, 'You are undoubtedly
and service. But at the turn of the 20th century, the Univer- better qualified for the position than any
sity's Mortar Board was an honor society for women at the young man we shall be likely to get. At the
University who had to fight for aplace ina male-dominated same time there is no chance of your getting
campus. it'"
Current Mortar Board members were given boxes found Other women weren't even granted the courtesy of a let-
in an Ann Arbor basement containing hundreds of pages of ter, like Lillian Johnson of the class of 1891, who received
meticulous meeting minutes, evolving constitutions, invita- this backhanded compliment: "At the Senior reception Prof.
tions, scrapbooks and society clothing. The collection was Hudson said, 'If you were only a man I'd ask you to come
a virtual time capsule that detailed a storied past of Mor- back as my assistant in History next year."
tar Board and other female student organizations, one that Four female students formed Mortar Board in 1905 to help
shows the struggle of women on campus. Of the founders, two were Greek and
women to gain respect two were independent. To ensure fairness, they agreed that
on a campus that did Greek women would only be allowed to select independent
not always welcome women and independent women could only select Greek
them. To promote social women.
This is made most Then-University President James B. Angell supported the
evident by accounts and intellectual creation of an honor society for women, according to Mortar
from these female stu- Board's records of its history found in the uncovered boxes.
dents at the turn of the interactThe group's purpose was to "promote social and intellectual
20th century. In 1924, as college spirit, interaction, as well as college spirit, executive ability, and a
the University's Alum- sincere interest in the welfare of the women of the univer-
nae Council conducted executive ability, and sity."
a survey of female stu- sincere interest in the Notable Mortar Board alums include Alice Lloyd and Vera
dents who had attend- Baits - namesakes of campus residence halls who held posi-
ed the University since Welfare of the women tions in the University administration - University Provost
1870, when women Teresa Sullivan and Marie Hartwig, the first associate direc-
were first admit- of the university. tor of athletics for women.
ted. The responses Members of Mortar Board already knew much of this
appeared in a brochure information about their society. But the donated archives
titled "For Michigan chronicle the existence of many other women's societies that
Women Everywhere," have disappeared from campus: Scroll, Senior Society, Cir-
which according to "Women's Voices: Early Years cle and Wyvern. Complete records are not available for all
at the University of Michigan," was used for fundraising to groups, but it appears that three of the four accepted senior
build the Michigan League. women, with the exception of Wyvern, which was an hon-
Of the 10,250 women surveyed, thousands responded and orary society for junior women that likely acted as a feeder
painted a very different picture of campus life from what organization for Mortar Board and Senior Society.
female students experience today. Sexism, unequal treat- "The senior groups all appear to have had scholastic
ment and a lack of female representation on the faculty was requirements, but it appears Senior Society was more social
overt and frequent. in nature, and Mortar Board has always put its heaviest
"I resented the fact that we had no women on our faculty emphasis on scholarship," said David Mickey-Pabello, a past
except an instructor in Art and one in physical training. I Mortar Board member and University graduate student.
don't believe I'm reconciled yet to the fact that coeducation "One of the ways they heavily valued scholarship was form-
is not extended to the faculty members," wrote Clementine ing Wyvern for juniors."
Williams of the class of 1910. The groups also differed in their membership require-

CALLING ALL STUDENT

BREWERS
The Michigan Daily is looking to name the best student-
made beer in Ann Arbor. The contest will take place in
November, so get a batch fermenting. All types of beer
welcome - no mead, moonshine or hard cider.
E-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com for details on
entering. Include your name, year in school, type of beer
and when you next expect to have a batch ready.

COURTESY OF BENTLEY HISTORICAL LIBRARY
ments, with Mortar Board a mix of Greek and independent
students and Senior Society for independent women only.
Not much is known about Scroll and Circle, according to
Mickey-Pabello, but it is thought that Circle may have been a
predecessor to Circle K.
These groups recruited members by requesting letters of
recommendation from dormitory mothers and then voting
on candidates. A major ritual that seems to be shared among
at least Senior Society and Mortar Board is the tradition of
"tapping."
To tap someone, a member would slip her collar and bow
around the prospect's neck and hand her a scroll and invita-
tion to initiation. Candidates were often caught by surprise,
both because they had been recommended in confidence
and because tapping occurred after lights out in the dormi-
tory, usually catching new initiates in curlers and pajamas.
"Permission from house mothers is required first for this, of
course," advised Senior Society president Shirley Hansen in
a 1947 letter.
The women societies held their meetings in "The Cave,"
a room on the fourth floor of the League that Mortar Board
records say was dedicated in 1929 as a "secret" room for cam-
pus honoraries.
"Of course, now 'The Cave' is a suite in the League hotel,
but it's interesting that it was designated as a secret meeting
room," said Mickey-Pabello.
The organizations sponsored orientation and advising
programs, career and leadership conferences, marriage lec-
tures, chaperone services and tutoring.
Female students were not allowed to attend the Univer-
sity's career fair in the 1950s, so Senior Society, Scroll and
Mortar Board organized a fair for women at the Michi-
gan League. It was a progressive idea at a time when many
believed that a woman's place is in the home. But reports on
the career fair show just how far women have come.
According to an 1957 article in The Michigan Daily,
careers featured at the fair included airline hostessing,
banking, insurance, social and civil service, publishing and
See MEMENTOS, Page 8B




0

0

0

F-

0

I B Th ichgnDiy - dnsay ctbr 4 20

Eating local in
Ann Arbor

From page 5B Market, which allows localiproduc-
ers to sell their goods outside the
collard greens can stay alive and in Kerrytown Market every week.
the ground until January, because Johns said that his quest to sup-
they benefit from the cold, too. ply Grange with local ingredients
"They just taste better when it has led him to make many friend-
freezes," Andres said. "The frost ships with other Ann Arborites,
sweetens them." who are interested in the same
Tantr6 also grows greens in five thing.
hoop houses, which are a series of "I was at the Farmers Market
tall metal or wooden half-hoops today, and it took me two hours,"
covered in greenhouse plastic and Johns said. "I didn't have a whole
heated by the sun. lot to get today, but you talk to peo-
A smaller farm like Tantre can ple, you see people, you ask them
focus on different methods to reap what's coming up, what's going to
a healthful crop in winter. But leave, how long those tomatoes are
standards come at a cost - for- going to be around - just shoot the
saking shortcuts to grow organic shit, weather, football."
means making up for the protec- Such familiarity with local pro-
tion afforded by those chemicals ducers helps Johns feel confident
through vigilant attention. about the quality of the ingredi-
"No herbicide means youneed to ents he buys.
pay three people to weed for three Even in the shadow of food pro-
hours, keeping an eye on things to duction powerhouses that have
know what the crop needs," Tantre come to take over the American
Farm employee Paul Ryda said. food industry, community farmer
Higher costs of production markets grew over the decades.
mean higher costs in the grocery Fifty years ago, there were only
store, something many Ameri- 100 farmers markets in the United
cans have a hard time accepting States, according to the book "Ani-
after being spoiled by an economy mal, Vegetable, Miracle." In 1976,
where businesses compete to offer though, the Farmer-to-Consumer
the absolute lowest price. But the Direct Marketing Act helped to
low prices come at the expense of fund the re-emergence of local
quality, which the workers at Tan- farmers markets. Today, there
tr6 Farm said shouldn't be a point are 4,600 farmers markets in the
of compromise in something as country, 900 more than in 2004.
essential as food. Likely, the increased allure of "eat-
"Flavors are compounds," Ryda ing local" has bolstered commu-
said. "Chemicals and extra water nity marketplaces.
make vegetables develop com- Ann Arbor's open-air Farm-
pounds that are less palatable. It's ers Market is open all year long.
not as good for the body." From May to December, the mar-
Andre said people are experi- ket is held from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. on
encing a natural shift away from Wednesday and Saturday, but from
the massive, anonymous monocul- January to April, it takes place only
ture that has come to characterize on Saturday and starts at8 a.m.
agriculture. Burgeoning environ- While the number of partici-
mental concerns, combined with pating vendor reduces from 90 to
the desire to invest in smaller about 20 during winter, the variety
communities that care for their doesn't suffer: apples, cider, baked
citizens, has promoted a healthier, goods, honey, maple sugar, jam,
more communal attitude toward eggs, meat and bread can be found
food. there year-round.
"Globally, economically, it seems "We actually have more things
that things are grossly out of bal- than you would think," said Molly
ance and correcting themselves," Notorianni,the manager of the Ann
he said. "It's a financial time of Arbor Farmers Market. "It's defi-
correction where we're hitting the nitely a small market in the winter,
skids. Environmentally, you can but it's still pretty busy. Vendors
take charge of those imbalances." said last year that it was the busiest
winter they could remember, espe-
THE VALUE OF KNOWING cially given how cold it was."
YOUR FARMER Frequentingthe Farmers Market
means planning ahead to go gro-
The product of a community cery shopping. It doesn't allow for
centered on food is a buzzing epi- midnight mass purchases like Mei-
center like the Ann Arbor Farmers jer, but it does lend itself to buying

only as much produce as you need. RED MEAT: A GUILTY
Working a weekly visit into your PLEASURE
schedule would be an easy way to
become a better locavore. You can take pleasure in a dish's
low number of "food miles," the
AVOIDING PHONY LABELING odometer reading on food deliv-
ery truck. But as far as greenhouse
A big challenge in trying to eat gases go, local meat is only margin-
with a conscience anywhere is dis- ally better for the environment.
cerning whether food labels really Food travels at least 1,000 miles
mean what they say. Everything at to get to the market where you
the Farmers Market is from close purchase it, according to a Car-
enough of a distance for farmers to negie Mellon study in 2008. But
drive their goods there themselves. the study found that delivery food
But when it comes to the grocery miles make up 11 percent of the
store, "local" is subjective. greenhouse gas emissions pro-
Bloomfield Hills resident Char- duced by fruits and vegetables, and
lton Burch said he shops local only 1 percent of those produced by
because it tastes better and "seems red meat.
like the right thing to do," but Catherine Badgley, a University
doesn't know for sure where his ecology professor and self-pro-
local foods come from or exactly claimed 100-mile locavore, said
how they benefit the environment. that food production and process-
"Who knows, you know?"he said ing, as well as meat-heavy diets,
while examining bulk granola at are more harmful to the environ-
Ann Arbor's People's Food Co-op. ment than a truck hauling citrus
"I'm not sure there's a watchdog in fruits from California to chilly
play, exactly, but I feel like there's Michigan.
some vigilance here." "Local is one of many consid-
At the Michigan Department erations," she said. "One of them
of Agriculture, Christine Lietzau is how high you eat on the food
coordinates the Select Michigan chain, because animal products
program, which provides locally take more resources than plant
made products a label that says, products."
"Select Michigan." The program of the greenhouse gases pro-
has specific criterion for qualify- duced by food, nitrous oxide, used
ing as Michigan-made: for pro- in some fertilizers, is the most
duce, 100 percent must be grown prevalent. Chemical and manure
in-state; 51 percent of ingredients soil treatments far outweigh car-
in processed foods must to be from bon dioxide in environmental
Michigan, and never can any part damage, which is multiplied in
of any ingredient come from out- the keeping of livestock. Research
side the United States. compiled by Earth Save Interna-
"The whole issue of 'what is tional found that a pound of beef
local' is what's local to me is not
local to you," Lietzau said. "The
typical-the locavore people-usu-
ally stay within 100 miles of where
it's grown. But nothing legislative_
is ever done. It would be very dif-
ficult to monitor all that."
She said the program came to be
after members of the MDA noticed
misleading "made local" labels,
such as state-bottled Coca-Cola
being tagged as a Michigan prod-_
uct. That a large soda company
wants to jump on the "eat local"
bandwagon speaks to how big the
movement has gotten.
"It's grownhuge," Lietzau said.
"That's why everybody's labeling
it, because the consumers are ask-
ing for it."
A year after the Select Michigan
program began in 1999, the sale of
local foods by retailers participat-
ing in the program increased by an
average of 111 percent and has seena
a 10 to 20 percent increase every
year since, Lietzau said.
"Why should we be bringing
food in from other states and other 24 C
countries when we're the second,
most agriculturally diverse state in "
the United States?" she said. Worke sand volutee aoesat Ta,

requires 12 pounds of grain, 35
pounds of topsoil and 2,500 gal-
lons of fresh water.
There are many ways to reduce
or increase your carbon footprint,
but the Carnegie Mellon study
found that reducing your red meat
intake by a quarter would be just as
beneficial to the environment as a
diet with no food miles at all.
And no matter how nearby
the hormone-free beef served at
Grange was reared, it is obligated
by law to take some kind of road
trip. Jennifer Holton from the
Michigan Department of Agricul-
ture said that restaurants can only
serve meat that has been slaugh-
tered in a USDA facility.
"That's probably the biggest
obstacle in doing things like this,"
Johns said. "So if I were to buy a
pig from Ernst Farms, which is
probably five miles from here, it's
gotta be taken to (Hillsdale, Mich.)
to process it."
With all the negative conse-
quences of the meat industry, it can
be disheartening enough to throw
in the towel for eating with a con-
science. This is especially true in
a state like Michigan, where the
long, bitter winter leaves kale one
of the only local things you can eat
once meat is out of the picture.
But of course, no one should be
expected to be a 100-mile loca-
vore all the time. If a box of Swiss
chocolates crosses your path, have
a piece. If you're not a vegetar-
ian, don't stop eating meat - just
maybe eat less of it, especially in
the summer when other foods are
available to diversify your diet.

W ed n e s d a y , O c t o b e r "14 ,D y0 0 9 - T h e M ic h ig a n D aT Oy.WB
QUOTES OF TH E WEEK
"I'm a good kid, but I'm
Mr. Prime Minister, I trying to be half good and
am a woman who is not half dumb so at least I have
at your disposal." a 50-50 chance."

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Gay women soldiers
2. U.S. Sen. Olympia Snowe
3. Ford's recall
And three things you can't:
1. Obama's Nobel Peace Prize
2. U.S. Rep. Charlie Rangel
3. Bags in the Big House
., . ,r
BY THE NUMBERS
Number of Afghan civilian deaths during the war in August
Number of U.S. and NATO coalition deaths in Afghanistan
in August
Afghanistan's rank in global corruption in August. The rankings
rate 180 countries, with the 180th being the most corrupt
Source: The New York Times

- ROSY BINDI, a Democratic member
of the Italian parliament, confronting Ital-
ian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi alter
he said that she was "more beautiful than
intelligent." Berlusconi faces pressure from
lawmakers over his sexual improprieties

- LEON PORCH, a 17-year-old boy from Chicago,
describing the wanton violence that confronts
many students enrolled in Chicago's public schools.
Standing where his friend was recently killed, Porch
said that "all the good kids are dying first," while the
bad ones seem to find a wayto survive

"It feels a little bit overboard."
- DEREK FERGUSON, a man from Stanford, Conn., referring to new proposals for preventing the
spread of the H1N1 virus at airports during the holiday season. People who look ill would be screened
for the virus, which might include having their temperature taken or being quarantined
YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
TH E WEEK
King of Pop, Jr.
There are many people who can
pull off Michael Jackson's legendary
dance moves. But it's safe to say that
very few of these skilled moonwalk-
ers are small children.
Thins video features an entertainmo : ..r .. ... . _
ing and funny exception: Dominique,
who appears to be about 7 years old, THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
can shake and shimmy like he's a true
heir to the King of Pop. Cruise break - Fall break is upon us. Instead of
Filmed at a festival in Santa Mon-
ica last month, the video starts with sitting around at home, find your inner spontaneity
a man on stilts grooving to Jackson's and leave the country. We suggest you take advan-
"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough." He
rolls forward and back, shaking his tage of the dismal economy and book a cheap, all-
shoulders and snapping his fingers to inclusive four-day cruise to the Caribbean Islands.
the tempo of the music. After dancing
for a minute, he mingles in the crowd With cruiseliners named "Grandeur of the Seas"
and extends his hands downward
toward Dominique, who grabs ahold and "Celebrity Solstice," it's bound to be an adven-
of him and starts swinging back and ture. And let's face it: if you're going to study for a
forth. When Dominique touches the
ground again, the real show begins. midterm, you might as well do it while sunbathing.
All of a sudden, Dominique starts Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStotement@umich.edu
spinning, moonwalking, and crotch-
grabbing in a way that would make
Michael Jackson proud. Slowly, the
crowd gathers around Dominique, STUD OF THE W EEK
and he continues exhibiting his prow-
ess on the dance floor. At this point,
he knows he's the main attraction, so N.F.L. players more susceptible to memory loss
his gestures become more flamboy-
ant. He wears the pained expression Alzheimer's disease and other related memory diseases afflict for-
of a true performer on his face. He mer N.F.L. players far more often than the national population, accord-
even lets out a few grunts. ing to a study conducted by the University of Michigan's Institute for
- BRIAN TENGEL Social Research.
See this and other The study, which was commissioned by the N.F.L., was conducted
YouTube videos ofthe week at using a phone survey in 2008. The researchers asked 1,063 retired
youtube.com/user/michigandaily players a list of questions about health topics, including kidney issues,
cholesterol levels, heart attacks and memory-related problems. In
order to qualify for the study, the men had to have played at least
three or four seasons in the N.F.L.
The researchers found that 6.1 percent of former players age 50 or
older said that they had been diagnosed with some form of dementia,
" -a number that is five times higher than the national average. Players
between 30 and 49 years old were diagnosed at a rate of 1.9 percent,
which is 19 times higher than the national average.
BRIAN TENGEL




i i i a

i .l. . r

a

0

0

Wensa, coe 4,20 heMcia Diy 51

Northern
Locavores
When snow covers the ground, you might think
your opportunity for homegrown food has passed.
But Ann Arbor producers have you covered all
year round - if you're willing to alter your diet.
Sara Lynne Thelen Statement Staff Writer

(RIGHT)JED MOCH/Daily

W ith the clink of artisan martinis and the pang of steep menu prices, it's clear that Grange Kitchen and Bar on Liberty Street has joined the ranks of swanky Ann Arbor
hot spots. Grange is definitely trendy, but not just for its chil atmosphere and prime location. The restaurant, which opened in Bella Ciao's old space this summer, is
based on a more consequentialtrend: eating local.
Eating food grown and processed nearby isn't a novelty. The idea of cutting out the middleman has been lauded as environmentally friendly and beneficial to local economies
for a long time. But now, as climate change becomes a more pressing issue and the locavore movement grows, the quest is to maintain the most sustainable diet possible. To the
most ardent locavores, their place on the sustainability spectrum is a measure of their love for the earth and their loyalty to the floundering Great Lakes State.
But the plausibility of adhering to a strict 100-mile-radius diet in a state that freezes over for much of the year is questionable. It's difficult, but not impossible. The first step is
committing to eating seasonally, or in other words, forsaking exotic fruits for vegetables that can be cultivated year round. And there are more locally grown options than may
be expected. Thanks to a plethora of local farms, chefs and grocers dedicated to sustainability, any Ann Arborite can eat with a conscience in the dead of winter.

Nakao.,.

gr

. SUSTAINABLE GOURMET
Brandon Johns, head chef
and owner of Grange, doesn't
like to be tethered to the politi-
cal label of locavore, but his
clean and simple dining room
exudes an air of "back to the
basics". The decor is sparse and
modest: wooden floors are sur-
rounded by spring green walls,
where unframed . canvasses
showcase photos of thick juli-
enned eggplant, hands cradling
golden tomatoes and blood
oranges sliced in half.
On each place setting, sand-
colored cloth napkins comple-
ment a white linen tablecloth,
and the one-page menu is typed
on material not unlike a paper
grocery bag.
For Johns, using local ingre-
dients isn't just about conserv-
ing the environment. First and
foremost, it's about assuring
that his food is the freshest and
best it can be.
"My main aim is to have a
restaurant that serves great
food, and to source as much as
I can locally at the same time,
because I think those things go

hand in hand," he said. "I'm not
walking home with a flag on
top of my head. I really just did
it because I wanted good food.
Then the political, social and
environmental reasons that
everyone's sort of hot to hop on
now came to light."
All but one of Grange's 13
food sources listed on its web-
site are in Michigan, with five
producers based in Washtenaw
County that provide Johns
with fresh fruit, meat, eggs,
coffee and more. Besides alco-
hol and spices, Grange's one
out-of-state source is a farm in
Ontario, Canada that produces
millet.
As crops in Michigan are
harvested at different set
points each year, the trick to
Johns's trade is reimagining
Grange's menu to suit changes
in the season. According to
Johns, asparagus is only avail-
able locally for four weeks in
the spring, but most every-
thing else that grows here
- tomatoes, peaches, pears,
carrots, squash, apples, onions,
apricots - are available until
mid- or late October. Winter-

time brings root vegetables like
potatoes and hardier greens
like kale and mustard leaves.
"I just always wanted to cook
with the season," Johns said.
"As the season changes, your
body changes what it needs."
Right now, the menu is heavy
on fish, meat, potatoes and
squash. Conspicuously absent
are traditional side dishes like
broccoli and asparagus. But it
is clear that Johns has applied
some creativity in drumming
up dishes that play to fall's
strong points, such as with an
entre of cider braised beef,
roasted parsnips and pumpkin
ravioli, or a vegetarian option
offering zucchini and squash
cakes with wilted greens and
spiced tomato sauce.
As a whole, a local menu is
more expensive to fill than a
conventional one,so itdemands
that he be creative to compen-
sate for the cost.
"I spend 12, 13, 14 dollars a
chicken, where Tyson chick-
ens would cost me three bucks
a chicken," Johns said. "Now I
think the difference is worth
it - you can completely taste it.

But it also makes me use a lot
of parts that no one else does. A
lot of sausage."
However, some customers
that seek out Johns' natural
philosophy might want to fully
understand it before they sit
down.
"People complain about the
duck, they say, 'It's too tough,"'
he said. "And I go to the table
and I say, 'Well, the duck got to
walk around. The duck evolved
muscles.' "
Johns faces a challenge in
running a restaurant with a
self-enforced ingredient con-
straint. It's not enough to find
a local producer - he must
also make sure that producer
is using chemical-free cultiva-
tion and processing methods
to assure the produce is of the
highest quality. Johns said
researching farms to attain
ingredients with the highest
levels of taste and nutrition and
the lowest impact on the envi-
ronment is a "huge time com-
mitment."
"Just because it's local
doesn't mean it's being done
right," he said.

THE LOVE AND LABOR
BEHIND LOCAL FOOD
Tantre Farm, a certified
organic farm in nearby Chel-
sea, is one of Grange's sources
that has gotten food production
right. Stationed out of a small
white house straddled by shad-
owy willows and softly rolling
fieldsofyellow soybeans, Tantr6
Farm is a 40-acre experiment
in community-sponsored agri-
culture. Customers purchase
shares in the farm and receive
regular deliveries of produce in
exchange.
The farm's business model is
a direct affront to the near-mo-
nopolies that reign over a food
industry that is riddled with
social justice and health issues.
At Tantre Farmno factory walls
hide travesties against human-
ity, animal rights or common
health that would make you lose
your appetite. Instead, a fam-
ily of three, a handful of live-in
workers, part-time help and vol-
unteers cultivate a diverse array
of organic crops.
"We're into the post-indus-
trial model," Tantr6 Farm co-

owner Richard Andres said.
Tantre Farm produces as
much as 8,000 pounds of pep-
pers, parsnips, lettuces and
tomatoes every week. During
other times of the year, the farm
also cultivates its high hedges of
berries, melons and mushroom
patches, an herb and flower gar-
den, goats and 50 chickens.
Hard Michigan weather
serves as more of a benefit than
a drawback for Tantre. When
feebler crops die off in the first
frost, Andres and his team have
more time to devote to main-
tenance, refurbishing, and fin-
ishing projects that "dangle all
summer" while crops are more
diverse and abundant.
"Then we can focus on mak-
ing the operation run smoother
and more efficiently," he said.
Tantr6sellshardier cropsthat
survive the cold to restaurants
throughout the winter. Andres
said that there are about 15,000
pounds of potatoes, 10,000
pounds of squash and 5,000
pounds of onions already saved
up. They also cut firewood, milk
cows and make cheese.
Kale, carrots, Kohlrabi and
See EATING LOCAL, Page 6B

Tantre Farm is an organic farm in nearby Chelsea that yields produce throughout the entire year.

Grange Kitchen and Bar is a new downtown restaurant that



