~be 1id Igan hI4

INEEEN YEARS OF ED
Tuesday, March 24, 2009

.hE

Ann Arbor, Michigan

michigandaily.com


PRINT INDUSTRY WOES HIT HOME
A2 News to
close after
174 years
Newspaper will
move online in July

Museum of Art Director James
Steward's 'town hall for the
arts' opens to students tonight.

By BEN VANWAGONER
Daily Fine Arts Editor
After two-and-a-half years and
$41.9 million worth of renovation
and expansion, University stu-
dents will finally get a glimpse of
the University of Michigan Muse-
um of Art's long-awaited make-
over tonight.
The length of construction
means that for many students on
campus, this evening's preview
will be their first chance to expe-
rience the museum, which houses
more than 18,000 works of art and
is now more than double its previ-
ous size.
During a walkthrough of
the museum yesterday, UMMA
Director.James Steward's rueful
grimace made it clear that he real-
ized this all too well.
"How many of you were in the
museum before (the expansion)?"
he asked Daily staff on a tour yes-
terday. "Probably not many."
The Museum's doors will be
open tonight from 8 p.m. until
midnight. Planned exclusively
with students in mind, the pre-
view features two DJs and Ann
Arbor band The Great Divide, who
will perform amid the oil paint-
ings and sculpture of the Europe-
an and American art gallery.
Most events will be occurring
in the Apse - a wide-open, col-
umned space in the middle of the
old wing - butevery gallery in the
newly expanded museum is open
for exploration.

UMMA PREVIEW
WHAT: A free preview of the Art
Museum open to all University of,
Michigan students.
WHEN: Tonight from 8 p.m. until
midnight.
WHY: Live entertainment, free
food and a chance to explore the
building before it opens.
Steward emphasized that con-
necting with students is one of the.
Museum's major goals, and many
of the features of the new section
- officially the Frankel Wing -
are designed to enable that.
The purpose of the expansion
is to create what Steward calls a
. "town hall for the arts" by bring-
ing students, faculty and com-
munity into direct, unmediated
contact with art and with each
other.
"We want it to be like the Diag,"
Steward said.
He places the Museum among
older traditions of collaboration
and exchange with suitably high
hopes.
"Think of the marketplace in
Athens," Steward said. "It wasn't
just a marketplace - it was also
whereSocratic dialoguetook place,
where ideas were exchanged."
The space in the old wing has
been vastly modified to bring visi-
tors closer to the art. Whole ceilings
have been redone, and new skylights
See UMMA, Page 7

- I
CHANELV00N H'ABSOURG-LOTHRiNGEN/DaO ~
TOP An installatiun piece using litht bulbs sits on a wall in the top huorstf the
museum's "Vertical Gallery." BOTTOM Museum at Att Director James Steward
stands in the museum's old wise. Thn ceilint in this recently renoaed part ot the
museum was made In allom natral light inside.
MUSEUM MULTIMEDIA
HeartDirerlorlJames Stewatd discuss hisnvisionlforthe museam and his plans
to connect Sm ith students' lines, as he goides wrilers from The Michigan
Oaily through an exdlusise tour oflthe museum. Gob o michigandailycom

By LINDY STEVENS
Daily News Editor
In an announcement made at a
staff meeting yesterday morning,
Laurel Champion, publisher of The
Ann Arbor News, told employees
that the newspaper plans to close its
doors and stop publishing in July.
In an interview yesterday, Cham-
pion said she and a few key execu-
tives learned of the newspaper's
decision to close about one month
ago, but that most Ann Arbor News
employees heard the announce-
ment for the first time yesterday.
Champion said a marked decline
in advertising revenue - with Jan-
pary advertising sales figures down
20 percent from last year - largely
contributed to the newspaper's

financial challenges.
"We had very serious losses last
year and those losses declined even
more in the past months," she said.
The Ann Arbor News - owned
by parent company Booth Newspa-
pers - will be replaced by AnnAr-
bor.com, a website that will publish
local news online.
The News will continue to pub-
lish its daily content on Mlive.com
in the interim.
AnnArbor.com, owned by Web-
based media company AnnArbor.
com LLC, is expected to begin
operations later this year and has
plans to circulate a print edition on
Sundays and Thursdays.
Champion, who will be executive
vice president of the new company,
See NEWSPAPER, Page 7

The hole in Ann
Arbor's local news

By MATT AARONSON
Daily StaffReporter
Yesterday's announcement of
the end of The Ann Arbor News is
yet another dark cloud in the ever-
worsening landscape of print jour-
nalism in this country.
All across the country, news-
papers are switching to an online
format, cutting down on staff and
content, filing for bankruptcy and
even going under. Though 15,704
people lost a job at a newspaper in
2008, and over 6,000 have already
lost their jobs this year, accord-'
ing to Paper Cuts, a website that
tracks layoffs, buyouts and news
in the U.S. newspaper industry,
some local experts have begun to

speculate that the Ann Arbor's
tech-savvy community could make
for a smooth transition to a strictly
online news outlet.
"Many people think that we're
experiencing a slow but quicken-
ing death spiral of the newspaper
industry," said Michael Traugott,
chair of the University's Commu-
nications Department, in an inter-
view yesterday.
"So who is going to keep an eye
from a news perspective on devel-
opers, the University of Michigan,
certain kinds of businesses as well
as the political machinery in local
government?" he said.
Dave Askins,-editor of The Ann
Arbor Chronicle, a local, online news
See JOURNALISM, Page 7



THE DIGITAL PRESS
SU' will merge publishing
operations with the library

0 Combined effort
will update the way
the University Press
prints its books
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
University officials announced
plans on Friday to merge the Uni-
versity of Michigan Press with the
University Library in an effort to
reinforce the University's mission
of efficiently publishing scholarly
texts while transitioning into the
digital age.
The announcement came
* approximately one month after
the Association of American Uni-
versities and the Association of
Research Libraries issued a call to
action urging universities to take a
more active role in producing and

sharing academic works through
digital technologies.
Under the new plan, Dean of
Libraries Paul Courant will over-
see the University of Michigan
Press.
Philip Pochoda, director of the
University of Michigan Press, said
the library is a natural partner for
the University Press and that the
change will place the publishing
house at the center of the Univer-
sity's digitization efforts.
The move will signal a major
change for the University of Mich-
igan Press, Pochoda said. The Uni-
versity of Michigan Press will now
digitize scholarly books and only
print them once an order has been
placed.
The conventional method of a
publishing house involves print-
ing a certain number of copies of
a book and storing the copies in a
warehouse until orders are placed,
Pochoda said. The University of

Michigan Press's new model will,
therefore, avoid printing more
copies than necessary and reduce
physical storage costs.
Pochodasaiddespitethis, some
areas of the University of Michi-
gan Press will not be affected.
He said books published for the
general reader, including books
on the Great Lakes and issues
of public concern like personal
health or poverty will continue
to be published under the cur-
rent model.
Pochoda said the reorganization
will better align the University of
Michigan Press with the'goals of
the University asa whole.
"(It will) allow us to connect
to the central mission of the Uni-
versity," he said. "(The move)
puts us into being a part of the
academic mission of the Univer-
sity."
The move, Pochoda said, will
See PUBLISHING, Page 7

Local residents voice complaints
over downtown rezoning plans
A2D2 aims to bring
more residential
areas into city's reach
By LARA ZADE
Daily StaffReporter
At last night's Ann Arbor Dis-
covering Downtown (A2D2) public
comment session, City Council gave
the public a chance to voice their
opinions about proposed changes to
simplify current zoning ordinances
to help foster increased population
density in downtown Ann Arbor.
A2D2, which was established in
Sept. 2006, would condense about
12 current downtown zoning areas cHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
into two, known as Dl and D2. Ann Arbor's plans to rezone its downtown area could reshape where residents live.
Dl is designated as the dens- Property included in the D1 zon- to increase the floor area ratio.
er zoning designation, covering ing districts would be about twice Both zoning districts have a
most of the downtown area, while as large in floor area ratios as those minimum height of two stories. D2
D2 applies to the transition area designated in D2 districts. Proper- designated properties would have
between the downtown core and ties that include beneficial features a maximum height of four to six
surrounding residential neighbor- like public parking or affordable stories.
hoods. public housing would be permitted See DOWNTOWN, Page 7


WEATHER HI: 54
TOMORROW LO 35

GOT A NE WS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com andletus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Sophomore WR Toney Clemons transfers from 'U'
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

IN DEX N EW S ...................................2 A RTS ....................................5
Vol. CXIX, No.115 SUD OK U........................... 3 CLASSIFIEDS.;.... . .......6
Om 009TheMichiganDaily OPINION ......... .............4 SPORT5...:............................8
michigandailyrcom""""

r

r


2 - Tuesday, March 24, 2009 N ew s

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 Tesa, arh24 20 Te ihianDil -mchgadilco

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters Explained

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

A RWUL F, ADIO PERSONALITY
Projecting peace through beats

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily coi bugli@nichigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:sun.-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2 a.m.
. 734-763-24s9
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaity@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artsamichigandaily.com

Underneath the Student Activi-
ties Building, down a flight of stairs
and at the end of a long hallway, is
the student-run WCBN radio sta-
tion where radio show host arwulf
arwulf broadcasts every week at
88.3 megahertz.
arwulf is a University lecture hall
projectionist who moved to Ann
Arbor in the summer of 1968 at the
age of 1.
A self-proclaimed autodidact,
whichmeansheisself-taught, arwulf
has let this approach toward learning
become a philosophy of sorts.
Born Theodore Grenier, arwulf
said his adopted name found him at
the age of 13. While on a walk with
friends, arwulf said the moon cast
a shadow and his friends told him
he looked like a wolf howling at the
moon.
In addition to his radio show at
the University, arwulf hosts The
Sunday Best on Eastern Michigan
University's radio station WEMU

and writes music reviews on allmu-
sicguide.com.
Despite his many interests,
arwulf said his real passion lies in
radio and music.
"I want to be there to alleviate suf-
fering," arwulf said. "That's the main
body of work."
arwulf's play lists for his Thursday
show have an eclectic range while his
Sunday show focuses more on jazz
and blues tracks.
He said he enjoys experimenting
with different types of formats on his
radio show.
"Every format is worth appreciat-
ing," he said. "We could learn from
formats to get along. We could learn
equality from formats. If all formats
are created equal, maybe we could
then rub off on the human race. I'm
not sure. It's worth a try."
In his many years living around
the University, arwulf has witnessed
changes in the student body and in
Ann Arbor.

arwulf arwulf is a disc jockey for WCBN-FM. His Sunday
radio show focuses on jazz and blues tracks.
MORE ONLINE
For a video of this week's campus character,
check out michigandoily.com.
CRIME NOTES
Touch screen Wallet sto
damaged credit can

len,
ds used

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Ross School of Busi-
ness
WHEN: Sunday at about 3
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown indi-
vidual damaged a touch screen
computer that was mounted to
a kiosk in the business school,
University Police reported.
The screen was valued at about
$1,000.
Laptop stolen
from Alice Lloyd
WHERE: Alice Lloyd Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 7
p.m.
WHAT: A laptop belonging
to a resident of Lloyd Hall
was stolen, University Police
reported. The victim said the
laptop was stolen after she had
left the it unattended for a few
minutes. The theft is being
investigated. There are no
suspects.

WHERE: Harlan hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Saturday at about
9:30 p.m.
WHAT: A student's wallet was
stolen from his unattended
coat between 12 p.m. and 2
p.m., University Police report-
ed. The credit cards in the
wallet were used off campus.
There are no suspects.
Bicycle stolen
from the Diag
WHERE: The Diag
WHEN: Friday at about 5:30
p.m.
WHAT: A student's bicycle
was stolen from the Diag,
University Police reported.
The bicycle was left locked to
a bicycle rack on the east side
of the Undergraduate Library.
The theft is currently under
investigation.

Peter Carey
reading
WHAT: Booker Prize-win-
ning writer Peter Carey will
read from his collection of
fiction as part of the Zell Vis-
iting Writers Series.
WHO: English Department
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Amphi-
theatre
Former inmates
showcase art at
exhibition
WHAT: Formerly incarcer-
ated artists will address visi-
tors at the opening of the 14th
Annual Exhibition of Art by
Michigan Prisoners.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Health System
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Center

Lecture on
political
correctness
WHAT: Soeren Palumbo, a
Notre Dame Student, will give
a lecture about the campaign
to ban the word "retard" from
daily speech.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Best Buddies
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Annenberg Audito-
rium, Room 1120
CORRECTIONS
. A news article in yester-
day's edition of the Daily
(Baydoun charges dropped,
3/23/2009) incorrectly
reported that all charges
were dropped against Gibran
Baydoun. Baydoun was found
guilty of negligently handling
MSA funds.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

"The Diag was a 100-percent, con-
ant party," arwulf said. "You'd walk
-om the Engineering Arch and from
ie time you got to North University
ou'd be high, even if you didn't mean
>. That's the way the environment
ras around here."
arwulf said he does not have
n iPod and that while it is a great
dvancement, it has its drawbacks.
"Every time a student comes to
ae and says 'did you find an iPod
n the auditorium,' I say well this
s what happens when your entire
ecord collection is the size of a
:eath Bar!" he said.
arwulf said his mission is to cheer
eople up and help them learn about
iusic through his radio broadcasts.
'hrough his craft, arwulf has devel-
ped a following in Ann Arbor and
round the country.
"I'm plotting to disrupt people's
reconceptions and expectations,"
rwulf said.
-ANNIE THOMAS
Tr H ETINSYU
Mount Redoubt in Alaska
has erupted five times since
Sunday, spewing ash col-
umns some 60,000 feet in the
air, CNN reported. Experts say
the ashfall from the eruptions
will be about the thickness of
a penny or a dime. The volcano
last erupted in 1990.
On Friday the Univer-
sity announced that
faculty and retirees on
University health plans will
soon be paying 30 percent of
their total health care costs
- a considerable increase.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4.
A Salvadoran immigrant
won $26 million in the
New York lottery draw
over the weekend, The Asso-
ciated Press reported. The
man reportedly did not follow
advice from his friends who
warned him not to play the lot-
tery on Friday the 13th.

Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassified Sales
Online Sales

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Kyle Swanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTAN T EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
Herring, Ruhsincolni
ASSISOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ryaone Ayean ao, a KoEs hein, Chr Meanrs,
uAle Prsperi,CuioltsRseeig
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Cif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsolah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, Sam Wolson
AngelaChil and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediEditor merian@michigandailysom
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mitchell@michigandaiy.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisingSalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman,ChristiePhillips
Ryan Businski ClassifiedSalesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng LayoutManager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichigan Daily(ISSN0745-967)is published Mondaythrough Friday duringthefallandwinter
termsby studentsat the university ofMichigan.ne copy is available freeof charge toallreaders.
Additionacopiesmay bepickedupatitheDaiy'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallandwinterterm
(SeptemberthroughApri) via U.S.maiare $200.Year-roundsubscriptions(Fall,Winter,Springand
Summer issuesare $225.Subscriptions must be prepaid.The Michigan Daily is a member of The
sociatedPressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

opinion@msichigandailyucom
sports@michiigandaily.comi
dispayicihiganrdaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@micigandaily.com

0
0


"Yale in
S ummer.
Smart.
Over 130 courses for full
Yale University credit:
Humanities, Science, Drama, Art
Two five-week intensive sessions:
June 1-July 3, July 6-August 7
0 Residential College living
See website for information and
application requirements.
Yale Summer Session 2009
http://www.yale.edu/summer
Email: summer.session@yale.edu
203 432-2430
Yale Summer Session
2009

Ready to Launch
Thursday, April 2
11 a.m.-3 p.m.
Alumni Center
200 Fletcher St., next to the Michigan League
The Alumni Association wants to help graduating seniors get ready to
launch their careers. Drop by the Alumni Center on April 2 and make
connections that can help you settle into a new city, help you with
your job search and help you find a career mentor. Seniors will also
receive one-on-one help with their job search.

Job search advisers will be available to:
" Review your resume and cover letter
" Provide interview tips
" Coach you on your professional pitch

R :

" Strategize your next step for your career
Free gifts and guaranteed appointment times for those who pre-register.
Visit www.umalumni.com/students to pre-register or for more details.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

d


1 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 24, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS Suicide bomber
LANSING Cdeb b r
5 5percentpaycut kills 23 in blast
for state emnlovees

proposed yesterday in Irag i

Republicans in the Michigan
House yesterday called for a 5
percent pay cut for state employ-
ees and a 5 percent cut to state
departments to help address a
growing deficit in this year's
budget.
GOP leaders said state gov-
ernment is spending $5 million
more each business day than
is being collected in tax rev-
enue. A plan proposed yesterday
would cut salaries 5 percent for
52,000 state workers, make state
employees and retirees pay high-
er health care premiums, and
reduce spending by 5 percent
across the board in state depart-
ments.
"It is time to bring state gov-
ernmentin line withthe econom-
ic realities of the private sector,"
said House Minority Leader
Kevin Elsenheimer, R-Kewadin.
WASHINGTON
Investigation opens
more possibilities
for plane crash
Speculation over the crash of
a single-engine turboprop plane
into a cemetery shifted to ice
on the wings yesterday after it
became less likely that overload-
ing was to blame, given that half
of the 14 people on board were
small children.
While descending Sunday in
preparation for landing at the
Bert Mooney Airport in Butte,
Mont., the plane passed through
a layer of air at about 1,500 feet
that was conducive to icing
because the temperatures were
below freezing and the air "had
100 percent relative humidity
or was saturated," according to
AccuWeather.com, a forecasting
service in State College, Pa.
Safety experts said similar
icing condition existed when a
Continental Airlines twin-engine
turboprop crashed into a home
nearBuffaloNiagaraInternation-
al Airport last month, killing 50,
HARTFORD, Conn.
Legislators consider
apology for slavery
Connecticut legislators are
considering making their state
the first in New England to apol-
ogize for slavery and other racist
policies of old.
A legislative committee heard
* testimony yesterday on a resolu-
tion that would issue a formal,
general apology and express the
General Assembly's "profound
contrition" for the official acts
that sanctioned and perpetuated
slavery hundreds of years ago.
The state's African-American
Affairs Commission, a liaison
between black communities and
the government, is urging leg-
islators to pass the resolution,
which ithas called "an exercise in
reconciliation" and not an effort
to determine fault for slavery.

Concerns raised over
possible resurgence
of violence in Iraq
BAGHDAD (AP) - A suicide
bomber struck a tentfilled yester-
day with Kurdish funeral mourn-
ers, unleashing a huge fireball
that killed at least 23 people in a
northern town where Kurds and
Arabs are competing for power.
Also yesterday, Turkey's visiting
president pressed the Iraqi gov-
ernment to crack down on Kurd-
ish rebels who stage cross-border
raids into Turkish territory from
sanctuaries in northern Iraq.
The provincial security office
said 23 people were killed and 34
wounded in the suicide attack in
the town of Jalula some 80 miles
(120 kilometers) northeast of
Baghdad.
A member of the provincial
security committee, Amir Rifaat,
said 24 people were killed and 28
wounded. The difference could
not be immediately reconciled.
Karim Khudadat, whose
father was being mourned, said
he was receiving visitors when
the bomber struck.
"I was with my relatives out-
side the tent receiving people
who came to offer condolences
when suddenly the explosion took
place," Khudadat said. "Suddenly
a huge flame engulfed the tent
and I was wounded in my head
and legs."

capital
Elsewhere, eight people were
killed and 10 wounded in a bomb-
ing near a bus stop west of Bagh-
dad, and a policeman died and
eight people were wounded in a
suicide blast at a market in the
northern town of Tal Afar.
A series of high-profile bomb-
ings this month has raised concern
that insurgents may be regrouping
as the U.S. begins to scale down
combat operations and hand over
security responsibility to the Iraqis
ahead of a planned American troop
withdrawal by the end of 2011.
The attack in Jalula was note-
worthy because it points to ris-
ing tensions in the north between
Kurds and Arabs over control of a
swath of territory that the Kurds
want to incorporate into their self-
ruled region.
U.S. officials believe Kurdish-
Arab tension is among the major
flashpoint issues threatening Iraqi
stability now that the threat posed
by Sunni and Shiite insurgents has
been diminished.
Last August a suicide bomber
killed 25 people, mostly police
volunteers, in Jalula, a predomi-
nantly Arab town where the Iraqi
army forced out Kurdish fighters
of the self-ruled Kurdish govern-
ment last year after a standoff that
U.S. officials feared would lead to
armed conflict.
A Jalula resident who was
wounded in Monday's blast blamed
al-Qaida in Iraq, a Sunni Arab orga-
nization that typically carries out
suicide bombings.

Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner watches President Obama during a meeting with small business owners at the White House.
Stocks soar after new a
-mortgage purchase plan

Plan would purchase
nearly $1 trillion in
bad mortgages
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
Obama administration aimed
squarely at the crisis clogging the
nation's credit system yesterday
with a plan to take over up to $1
trillion in sour mortgage securities
with the help of private investors.
For once, Wall Street cheered.
The announcement, closely
stage-managed throughout the day,
filled in crucialblanksinthe admin-
istration's financial rescue package
and formed what President Barack
Obama called "one more critical
element in our recovery."
The coordinated effort by the
Treasury Department, the Federal
Reserve and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. relies on a mix of
government and private money -
mostly from institutional investors
such as hedge funds - to help banks
rid their balance sheets of real-
estate related securities thatare now.

extremely difficult to value..
The goal, said Obama, is to get
banks lending again, so "families
can get basic consumer loans, auto
loans, student loans, (and so) that
small businesses are able to finance
themselves, and we can start get-
ting this economy moving again."
It was a huge gambit and one that
came like a tonic to Wall Street,
whichhad pannedanearlier outline
of the program that lacked detail.
Stocks soared, the Dow Jones
industrial average shooting up
nearly 500 points, thanks to the
bank-assets plan and a report
showing an unexpected jump in
home sales.
The introduction of the plan was
closely choreographed so that the
president - rather than Treasury
Secretary TimothyGeithner --would
be the first administration official to
appear on camera at midday to dis-
cuss it. Geithner met earlier in the
day, before markets opened, with a
group of reporters at the Treasury
Department to go over specifics. But
cameras and broadcast-quality audio
recorders were barred.

It was the reverse of what hap-
pened Feb. 10. Then, after Obama
had helped raise expectations
toward Geithner and the plan, the
treasury secretary went before
cameras and bombed, The. Dow
plunged about 300 points amid
investor confusion about details.
The fleshed-out plan is designed
to help fix a value on damaged
mortgage loans and other toxic
securities.
If the value of the securities
goes up, the private investors and
taxpayers would share inthegains.
If the values go down, the govern-
ment and private investors would
incur losses.
"This will help banks clean up
their balance sheets and make it
easier for them to raise capital,"
Geithner said.
The plan will take $75 billion to
$100 billion from the government's
existing $700 billion Troubled
Asset Relief Program. The govern-
ment will pair this with private
investments and loans from the
FDIC and the Fed to generate $500
billion in purchasing power.

Sudanese president
flaunts UN charges

al-Bashir travels
to Eritrea despite
pending warrant
for war crimes
KHARTOUM (AP) - Sudan's
president traveled to Eritrea yes-
terday, choosing one of Africa's
most politically isolated nations for
his first trip abroad since an inter-
national court sought his arrest on
charges of war crimes in Darfur.
The one-day visit followed Eri-
trea's official invitation to Sudan's
Omar al-Bashir, who faces the
arrest warrant by the Nether-
lands-based International Crimi-
nal Court.
Eritrean television showed
live coverage of al-Bashir being
greeted at the airport in the Eri-
trean capital Asmara by his coun-
terpart President Isaias Afwerki;
along with drummers and danc-
ers. Sudanese state television later
yesterday showed live images of al-
Bashir returning to Khartoum.
SudaneseForeignMinisterDeng
Alor said the visit was "important"
and reflected Eritrean "solidar-
ity ... with Sudan against the ICC."

Eritrean Information Minister Ali
Abdu told The Associated Press that
al-Bashirwas accompaniedbyheads
of security and intelligence and was
there to discuss regional security, ...
The ICC charged al-Bashir on
March 4 of leading a counterinsur-
gency against Darfur rebels that
involved rapes, killings and other
atrocities against civilians. His
government has been accused of
unleashing Arab militiamen known
as janjaweed against Darfur civil-
ians in a drive to put down a revolt
by ethnic Africans in the region.
Up to 300,000 people have died
and 2.7 million driven from their
homes in the conflict since 2003,
according to the U.N.
Under the ICC charter, member
states are bound to arrest those
indicted when they enter their ter-
ritory. Eritrea is not a signatory,
however, and has vehemently con-
demned the indictment, making it
a kind of safe haven for el-Bashir to
visit.
"It's unjustifiable and illegal and
illogical and futile, the so-called
ICC decision," said Abdu. "We
believe it's an extension and symp-
tom of the ongoing world hegemony
and domination by a few powers in
this world."


t ak e th is su m m e r

i

MEXICO CITY
Mexico gov't
offers reward for Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
. Carona/Dos Equis Specials All Night
drug traffickers & rplj nea VOSVJrin2
Mexico's government yeter 25%Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
day offered $2 million each for ia or Bomb S ocials 10 to Close
information leading to the arrest r. - / , r
of 24 top drug lords in a public + 9 O Ld next Ste M ynaed r $NMyctwo
challenge to the cartels' violent
grip on the country.
The list indicated that drug
gangs have splintered into six
main cartels under pressure
from the U.S. and Mexican gov-
ernments. The two most power-
ful gangs - the Pacific and Gulf
cartels - each suffered fractures 8 9 1 5 2 4
that have given rise to new car-
tels, according to the list pub-
lished by the Attorney General's
Office.
The list offers 30 million pesos 6
($2 million) in rewards for 24 top
members of the cartels and 15 3 4
million pesos ($1 million) for 13
of their lieutenants.
Mexico's drug violence has
killed more than 9,000 people
since President Felipe Calderon 5 3 9
took office in December 2006 as
gangs battle each other for terri-
tory and fight off a government
crackdown. Some of that violence 4 7 9
is spilling over into the United
States, especially the Southwest,
where kidnaps and killings are on 1 5 3 2 4 7
the rise.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


4 - Tuesday, March 24, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I e Iicl ig n aiiy


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations representsolely the views oftheir authors.
FROM TH E DAILY
The cost of coverage
Universal health care would make system more affordable
hile many University students wait in fear of another
tuition hike, faculty members took the first financial
hit last week.. On Friday, the University announced
that faculty and retirees on University health plans will have to
pay a higher proportion of the costs. Though this will be a tough
increase for faculty, the University wasn't left with much of a
choice. Burdensome health care costs are a national problem, and
institutions like the University shouldn't be responsible for them.
Instead, the federal government needs to create a universal health
care system that provides for the medical needs of all people - a
reform that eases the financial burden many organizations like
ours are carrying.

According to University officials, health
care is the most rapidly increasing cost on
the University's budget. That's one reason
why faculty members will soon be paying
30 percent of their total health care costs
under a new plan - a considerable increase
over the current 20 percent. The commit-
tees that created the plan, the Committee
on Sustainable Health Benefits and the
Committee to Study Retirement Savings
Plan vesting Options, opted to increase
faculty contributions, rather than scrap
benefits.
With the University facing rising costs
and state funding cuts from the state,
something had to give. Failure to cut costs
could harm other priorities like the need
to keep tuition low. These costs are clearly
draining money that should be available
for other things.
And the University isn't the only one hurt-
ing -burgeoninghealth care costs are partly
to blame for the financial woes of Michigan's
auto makers. The best solution to the prob-
lems is federally managed universal health
care. This would alleviate health costs that
employers shouldn't have to worry about.
The rising cost of health care is a national
issue that shouldn't be left to individuals,
employers and schools to solve.
The government is better equipped to

address escalating costs and also has a
duty to provide such services to all people.
A national health care plan would reduce
the cost of health care because private
plans that already exist would have to offer
lower prices to compete. This would in
turn drive down costs for institutions like
the University.
With the cost of health care decreas-
ing from the creation of a national system,
more people will be able to afford coverage.
opponents of universal health care might
claim that a universal policy will lower
the quality of care or result in abuse of the
system, but this shouldn't be the case in a
well-managed program. Universal health
care is the best solution to the inequalities
created under current health care policies.
Colleges shouldn't have to struggle with
raising tuition or charging faculty mem-
bers through the roof for services that
their lives cpuld literally depend on. Edu-
cators and other individuals aren't respon-
sible for the problems in private health
care systems - they shouldn't have to pay
the price for the problem. And the federal
government can't shirk its responsibility to
make high quality health care accessible to
everyone. It's time for Congress to make
efficient, affordable health coverage a real-
ity for all Americans.

Notre Dame has chosen prestige over
principles, popularity over morality.'
- A petition from the Cardinal Newman Society, calling for the University of Notre Dame to rescind its invitation
to President Barack Obama to speak at commencement, as reported yesterday by the Chicago Tribune.
ELAINE MORTON I T CLLS E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
Sunday was World
Witer Day. 20% ofrWho?
peopleVon 5rP+e don- MOr+1' f1 orAnae
dcinkir 4te C. S''r'
Discounting the future
T he last eight years have been of our industrial base, fatal weaken- And of course, government paper
especially difficult for capital- ing of our currency and the accumu- would be the market's last choice as a
ists like myself. A lot of non- lation of massive amounts of debt. monetary arrangement, as evidenced
sense has recently But the current macroeconomic pol- by the fact that it took until 1690 for
been written about icy espoused by most economists is government paper money to be cre-
the alleged free- still that spending "drives" the econ- ated. There is also the fact that a cen-
market activities omy and all we have to do to become tral bank has never existed without
causing our current wealthier is buy more things. express consent of the government,
instability. To me, We are consumingcapital - we are i.e. banks have never taken over the
this view is comical. diverting resources away from sav- economy without the direct help of
But for the populace ings and toward consumption. This government. This should make it clear
as a whole, it's not leads to a higher standard of living that manipulation of money and cred-
only damaging but in the short run but eventually will it is impossible on the free market.
potentially fatal. VINCENT lead to economic collapse. Suppose
In the first place, PATSY my car was not running well and I
a free market is an -_ needed to get it fixed. I could decide
economic system to delay spending money to fix my car HOw speculation
in which the means of production and spend the money on something
are entirely privately owned. We do else, like a new TV. Eventually, my -has depleted
not operate under a free market, as car would stop working and I would
evidenced by the fact that I attend a need to pay more to fix it. Saving our savings.
public university. money allows for a higher standard
But it gets worse when one turns to of living in the future at the expense
the financial sector. The basis of our of the present. Our current economic
financial system is a government car- philosophy says-that saving money The important question is not how
tel of private banks with the Federal is unimportant, which destroys our to get out of this mess, but rather how
Reserve having the sole monopoly on future standard of living for the sake the mistakes could have been made
the creation of money and credit. To of the present. in the first place. Why was there sud-
put this in perspective, the only com- --As I mentioned in a coluan a few denly a massive rise in housing prices
parable sector of the economy would weeks ago, our current baking at the same time as a massive expan-
be passenger train service, which arrangement of fractional-reserve sion ofcredit? Whyis it thatthere was
is controlled by government-owned banking is not a market institution. enough credit for those companies
Amtrak. These are examples of pri- Even if it were permitted, however, to expand that way? In a free mar-
vate corporations owned and con- banks in a free market would have ket, if you extend your position, you "
trolled by the government - hardly a to pay depositors on demand. This become riskier and thus less credit
market institution. means that under a free market, is available. By doing the opposite of
Under a free market, there obvi- eventually fractional reserve banking the market, the Fed made speculation
ously would be no central bank, and would eventually become 100 percent a costless venture, and thus investors
interest rates would be set by the reserve banking. who were risky became thesuccessful
amount of savings. With our savings Since the government guarantees ones. This promotion of speculation
rate going negative in the last few money market funds, bank accounts was a result of government interven-
years, we should have seen a massive and other financial instruments, tion into the market. Add in the fact
rise in interest rates. Since this didn't there is little incentive for inves- that the government was unwilling to
happen, it's safe to assume the free tors to do due diligence on where to shut it down and it's no wonder we're
market has not been setting interest put their money. There is also little in our current predicament.
rates, incentive for banks to be honest or to Would you still say capitalism
By setting interest rates low, the act prudently, which leads to incred- abounds, comrades?
federal government has decreased ible moral hazard. Do you honestly
the amountnofsavings in the economy. believe that George Bush's minions - Vincent Patsy can be reached
This has resulted in the destruction were that competent? at vapatsy@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

LISA TREUMUTH AND JOSHUA LEEI VIEWPOINT
Recognizing World TB Day

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Rich pay more than their
fair share of tax burden

the bottom SO pt
Under Obama'
ers will pay no in'
half of earners ha
other people's me

TO THE DAILY: some is the fact t
I enjoyed reading Patrick O'Mahen's latest nesses - the prir
column (Taxation Frustration, 04/23/2009) - file under pers
about how income taxes are unfair to poorer nesses will be the
people. The article epitomizes the spin Presi- and will directly
dent Barack Obama as well as many liberals put can - by cuttingj
on the way income tax works in this country. Many people
Obama has claimed that 95 percent of all Forbes Wealthie
Americans will pay less in taxes and only the 20 richest people
top 2 percent will receive a tax increase. Let's losing a staggeri
try to weed through the liberal spin and get ingsentiment th.
real. First off, nearly half (45.3 percent in 2007) deserved it, butp
of all government revenue comes from individ- facts;and the fac
ual income taxes. The top one percent of indi- just realize thatt
viduals in this country pay 40 percent of the boat.
total revenue from income taxes and the top
five percent pay around 60 percent. In addition, Sam van Kleef
the bottom 40 percent pay no income tax and LSA freshman

ecent pay under 3 percent.
s new tax plan, half of all earn-
come tax. This would mean that
ve absolutelynostake inhowthe
oney is spent. Even more worri-
hat about half of all small busi-
mary job creators in the nation
onal income taxes. These busi-
e biggest losers in tax increases
respond in the only ways they
jobs or raising prices.
were ecstatic when the new
st People list showed 19 out the
e were worse off than last year,
ng $2 trillion. There is a grow-
at those "greedy rich bastards"
erhaps we should consider the
cts don't lie. Sure, hate the rich;
they are the ones who float the

JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
WA
Ta,
t
ti t ,.-
MAPIHT
txi

Today is World TB Day, when countries around the
world focus on the problem of tuberculosis, a disease that
still kills about 1.7 million people per year. This year, World
TB Day falls at a time of financial uncertainty and fear for
the future of our economy. During this period of financial
crisis for even the richest countries in the world, we in the
United States may be tempted to turn inward and look only
at our own needs and problems. Of course we must find ways
to help American families that have lost their homes and
American workers who have lost their jobs. But at the same
time, we should not overlook our global family for the sake
of our security. Just a little attenition and help can enhance
national security while simultaneously upholding the dig-
nity oftour fellow human beings.
Typical TB can be treated with a cheap six-month pro-
gram of two or three medications, but the increasingly
common, multi-drug-resistant TB can cost millions of
dollars to treat. Nearly 500,000 people around the world
developed MDR-TB last year. Even more threatening is
extensively drug-resistant TB, which has a mortality rate
of 85 percent and has been found in 35 countries, includ-
ing the United States. As we learned last year through the
case of Andrew Speaker, those with TB in one country
can spread the disease easily in a closed area, like in an
airplane. Now that global travel is so commonplace, TB in
one country threatens all of us.
Currently, the United States provides funding for TB
programs primarily through the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, TB, and Malaria. This fund, which is financed
through contributions from avariety of wealthy countries,
solicits grant proposals for health programs in poorer
nations to combat these deadly diseases. If the proposals

are deemed worthy by an independent technical review
panel, the Global Fund grants the money to launch and
sustain these programs. Since its inception, the Fund has
disbursed $7.2 billion for programs that have saved an
estimated 3.5 million lives.
In 2007, leaders at the Global Fund Board and G8
agreed to scale yearly contributions to the Global Fund
up to between $6-8 billion if countries crafted high-qual-
ity grant proposals. This encouraged a dramatic increase
in the number and scale of proposals submitted, and
the Global Fund agreed to increase yearly funding. But
G8 countries have not lived up to their commitments to
increase contributions to the Fund yet and consequently
many worthy projects still can't obtain funding. If these
projects stall, it could lead to lost lives and an increased
likelihood that TB will spread to more countries.
Congress and the President have a chance to remedy
this situation by increasing funding for the Global Fund
in the coming supplemental appropriations bill. Our fair *
share of the financial need of the Global Fund is $2.7 bil-
lion. Compared to the trillions that we have poured into
our irresponsible banks, this sum seems like pennies, and
this money could actually provide a return on investment.
Please contact your legislators and ask them to fight for
full funding for the Global Fund. If you are unsure about
who your legislator is, feel free to contact Lisa Treumuth
(lmtreu@umich.edu) and Joshua Lee (msnbc@umich. *
edu) to receive that information. Millions of lives could
depend on it - maybe.
Joshua Lee is a Business sophomore and
Lisa Treumuth is a graduate student.

l

&


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 24, 2009 - 5

Playing for keeps

Sp endid 'Hazards'

It's a bummer that Michigan was cured
of its March Madness. To top it off, that
hockey game on Saturday blew, and let's
not forget that crazy Rich Rod. Blue athletics
can be distressing these
days, but I have a working
form of athletic alleviation.
I cherish sports movies
- when you watch them,
not only can you can pick
your plays, but you can
watch true drama. Sports
movies are real, brutal, BLAKE
insightful, poetic and awe- GOBLE
inspiring. Sports are dra-
matic; plain and simple.
That's why I'm here to present to you the
finest sports films of all time. Who am I to
make such bold claims? First, being a former
athlete - pre-paunch, I participated in varsity
swimming and water polo - I can say I know
how sports films connect. I've screened loads
of these flicks. And like any sport, I have rules.
Rule one: No Kevin Costner films. Rule two:
No boxing films. Rule three: "Hoosiers" is dis-
qualified, because it had the same director as
"Rudy." And rule 4: A sport can only present
itself once, meaning no two baseball or basket-
ball films. Don't like the rules? Tough. I don't
have to justify them. So without further adieu,
let's get it on.
"The Hustler" was unglamorous, yet ultra
hip. Paul Newman plays "Fast" Eddie Felson,
the most bodacious billiards man you'll ever
see. "Hustler" gets the nod because of New-
man's iconic portrayal of a man trapped by
his talents.
Speaking of talent, "This Sporting Life" is
the most emotional piece on this list. If you
haven't seen Richard Harris ("Camelot")
give a total performance in this kitchen-sink
drama about the trials of gifted rugby player
Frank Machin, you must see this movie.
But even without revealing harsh realities,
sports can be beautiful. Yes, there's a tainted
quality to Leni Riefenstahl's "Olympia" films
about the 1936 Berlin Olympics - juxtapos-
ing Jesse Owens with Adolph Hitler is too
awkward to ignore. But Leni was the first and
best filmmaker to understand the beauty of
the physical form and she showed it with slow
motion, low-angle athletes in fluid form.
The filthiest, funniest and most furious
film here, "Slap Shot" is raw athletics. Look up
the fashion show scene online. But as a sports

story, it is a great dramedy, capturing the
unexpected in the best way possible. Oh, and
the Hanson brothers are the funniest perpe-
trators of sports violence you'll ever see.
Then there's the original "Bad News Bears,"
the most accurate depiction of youth sports.
Argue hard about "Sandlot" capturing your
youth, but "Bears" is way more honest. Who
didn't razz on other teams? Just look up "Bad
News Bears Tanner" on YouTube for proof.
Kids are cruel, but funny too. I certainly earned
my water poloblack eyes and stitches at 16.
That's not to say sports can't imbue hope.
Sports will always inspire. Granted, the Dis-
ney sports movie formula has been packaged
and resold just like the worst junk food. But
"Remember the Titans" was the first in Dis-
ney's recent string of athletic dramas, and it's
I just hate 'Field
of Dreams'!
still the greatest. You really do want Denzel
Washington to be your coach. And for once it's
OK to win a game.
So what are arguably the two best sports
film ever made? The first is Roger Ebert's pick
for best film of the 1990s. As the most compre-
hensive movie on sports, "Hoop Dreams" is
incendiary. It's a three-hour documentary on
two teenage Chicago basketball players, and
it never lets up. Witness the heart-breaking,
spirit-lifting experience of their quest to
someday play in the NBA. It's a landmark.
However, without apology, I believe
"Breaking Away" is the perfect sports movie.
Funny, fast, pretty and completely involving,
it's ekactly right. Four townies at the Univer-
sity of Indiana compete against locals, and
that's it. But there's much beneath the surface.
"Breaking Away" is about finding and chal-
lenging yourself, and about uncorrupted com-
petition. We learn from, enjoy and take part in
this experience as it connects with us all. This
is all that is good in sport and film.
These are the sports movies that get it. And
I hate "Field of Dreams."
Goble is looking for a new tennis
partner. E-mail him at bgoblue@umich.
edu if you want to hit the court with him.

An ambitious opera,
The Decemberists' new
LP beats expectations
By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
So The Decemberists have made a
17-track indie-opera.
It's a necessary label,
but an unfortunate
one -when an album The
is touted as any type
of "opera," it's nor- DeCemlbeists
mally an indulgent, The Hazards
incoherent mess. It'soThe
simply too difficult of Love
for most bands to Capitol
strike that delicate
halance between pretension, ambition
and actual musical quality when mak-
ing these beefed-up concept albums.
But it goes without saying that The
Decemberists are not a typical band.
Colin Meloy, the group's bookish front-
man, is well knownfor his peculiar fond-
ness for arcane and obscure vocabulary
(a sample line from 2006's The Crane
Wife: "Its contents watched by Sycorax
/ and Patagon in parallax"). Guitarist
Chris Funk once battled Stephen Col-
bert in a guitar duel on live television.
They're weird dudes. Maybe that's why
they were able to turn out a rock-, indie-
or whatever-opera that's both musically
and thematically compelling.
Conceptually, Hazards of Love is a
sylvan fairytale describing an evil tree-
queen and a fair maiden named Marga-
ret who (I'm fairly sure) gets raped by
a morphing fawn and kidnapped. Natu-
rally, her lover seeks revenge.
Needless to say, it's a strange album.
But coming from Meloy and his merry
band of troubadours, it all fits into place.
The story is told not only coherently but
poetically - here's Meloy describing
Margaret's abduction: "All a'gallop with
Margaret slung roof crossed withers /
Having clamped her innocent fingers
in fetters / This villain must calculate
crossing the wild river."

"We shot 782 pounds of game, but were only able to carry 200 back to our wagoe.

In less capable hands, an album like
this could be disastrous. It's grandiose.
It's campy. But for The Decemberists, it
works. The way the album structurally
mimics a real opera makes the bizarre
subject matter much easier to stomach.
Three different vocalists play the three
lead characters. The chaste-voiced
Becky Stark (from the band Lavender
Diamond) is the distressed Margaret,
takingup lead vocals wheneverthe story
calls for it. My Brightest Diamond's
Shara Worden voices the evil queen
with Disney-esque prowess. Meloy,
meanwhile, is convincing as both the
noble hero and the conniving evildoer
in "The Rake's Song." Each track segues
into the next, demanding the album be
listened to from start to finish.
Even Wagner would be proud - leit-
motifs are used masterfully throughout
Hazards (for example, whenever the
treacherous queen is about to sing, a
brooding, distorted guitar line comes in).
Sometimes with concept albums,

excessive narrative and structural con-
cerns take top priority and the music
suffers. Not here. Meloy has an almost
preternatural gift for melody, routinely-
turning clunky; word-heavy phrases
into dulcet melodic lines. "A Bower
Scene" and "The Queen's Rebuke/The
Crossing" see The Decemberists blast-
ing off into new, distortion-and-solo
territory. These harder-rock songs not
only set the mood for the album's more
narratively menacing moments, but
also unveil a refreshing sound for The
Decemberists; more than any other time
in its career, the band actually sounds
like it's rocking out and having fun.
This album was a definite risk. The
Decemberists seemingly ignored com-
mercial and credibility issues and made
the ambitious, thoroughly odd record
they wanted to make. And it paid off.
Like all good rock-operas or concept
records before it, Hazards is more than
an album - it's a.theatrical, fully engag-
ing experience.


k A


6- Tuesday, March 24, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

forsale
020 C
1 BDRM. CONDO 2317 Packard.
VERY clean, new appl, quiet area. Bus
stop out front, pool in rear. $68,000 or
offer. 734-930-0200 or 734-474-0978.
99 FORD RANGER pickup, 118k
miles, runs excellent, clean
can be seen in U/M stadium lot. $3000
474-0978.
I-I
pafking
025
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
. 4 ELEVEN Lofts will buy you FREE
LUNCH ! First10 new visitors daily,
weekdays 12-3pm. THIS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
"'AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Oirectv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.

COUPON WITH EVERY NEW TOUR
UNTIL THEY'RE GONE
*REDUCED RATES 0N2 BEDROOMS*
We offer many amenities such as:
FREE Wireless Internet
FREE Food Every week
Workout room, Outdoor Pool,
Study Lounge, TV Lounge,
Laundry roam, 24 attended Lobby,
Great Maintenance, Free Rentals,.
Free Heat and Water included
with every apartment
STOP BY TODAY AND FIND
OUT MORE DETAILS ABOUT
OUR LATEST SPECIALS.
YOU'LL SEE WHY WE'RE
STILL #1
University Towers Apartments
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
ww.universitytowers-mi.com
University
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!'
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
frot East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATES$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water.
and parking included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! This special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're
gone! universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Fall '09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Offstreet prkg, Indry, water incl.
($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.utm-housing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.

2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter ml. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State. Catheinte and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall*
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall -09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagemen.coiv
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, [dry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfis333@aotlcom
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhiitemanagemvent.com
5 BDRM./2 bath, attractive house.
Clse to central caivps and stadium.
2250/ivo. 734-665-2538.
TWO 7 BDIRM. hoses available and
several one bdrns. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.coiv
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully famished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilsoni
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.om
7 BDRM FALL -09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only I
me. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only I mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
From the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May 09to Augusti 09 at
$1200/month and September 09 to An-
gust 10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilssonwhitemanagement.com
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site atwww.ilmandproperties.com for
retre into or call 734-973-7368.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrr. and 2 bdr. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256. .
L A
WilsonWhite
RENT SALE!:
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability

Bring this ad to lease signing and we
nwil waive the application fee and aduce
security deposit to one month's rent
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitenanagement.com ,
4 - - - .-. - -.-. -r. - - -
Rooms, studios, and 1- to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!

tiapcs the bfr ..
011ued and
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CmpsMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood fnoors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Drer included. New furnace/AC,
and a wrking fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 anionth Contact me if yoer
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon travis a sbeglbal.net
AVAIL. SEPT. '09, $4,300, large 6
bedroom, 3 bath. house very close to
Diag. Central air, laundry, 4 nearby
parking spots, hdwd. floors, large bed-
rooms. iichaelbielby //comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
BeautifulI 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Drms!
Rent our 2 bedroorand save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
=$15,000
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
=$16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today In see yr new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
7,11 a n - -k - +-+- - no

FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED
AND Two Bedroom apartment
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145.
more details contact Wilson
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING wher
able when you sign a new le
March 31st. That's a $300 savin
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a
available properties.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. i
spot. Heat and water incl. $17S
734-665-8825. www.campusrealt
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
Tower Plaza Condominiu r
Qi & 3Se 1 HBgise-One Clck Tat
Ca0 Brian Tomsc
734-663-1530
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occu
Great Location: 1320 S. Univers
gotiable Rates & Flexible Te
Furnished, Parking,,FREE Inte
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Tod
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.c
KEl(RYTOWN 4 BDRM hous(
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, ci
porch & much more. 741-93
www.annarborapartments.n
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm
I111 S. State, Near UM bu
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat,
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We ha
ciencies up.to 6 bedrooms avail
-May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see a
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.c
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEAS
rooms available. Kingsley ant
Call (248) 910-2286.
ONE BEDROOM AVAILAB
cated in a quaint residential n
hood in the Old West Side oft
bor. Balconies, central AC,1
Heat and water included. Takec
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michi
alty, 734.-662-5500. EHO.
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Dow
734-662-7888
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5
house. $650 per month. 734-665
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. duple
Prospect. Modern kitch., centi
Free idry. $2650+ util. avail. M
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.co
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $20

ONE
s avail-
For
White

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com

Call today to see your new Home!
e avail- Efficiencies:
ase by 344 S. Division
igs. Act 1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
list of 515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
n prime 1320 S. University
99/ mo. 2 Bedrooms:
y.com 909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
Parking Included n
Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
pancy www.oldtownrealty.net
ity Ne-
r N Houses Available for Fall 2009
ernet, All Prices Reduced!!
lay! 8 Bedroomn House
428 Hamilton P. $4,400
;e- fully
vered 7 Bedroom Houses
o0. 406 E. Jefferson $3,850
ret 1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
. apt. at 6 Bedrom House
Rs stop' 952 Greenwod $3,600
& water
[dry., (May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
ye Effi- 624 Church $2,995
able for
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
vailable of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
om WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
E. 4 from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
d State. cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 am
www.michcomreaty.com for details.
LE lo-
eighbor- WWW.800FULLER.COM
Ann Ar- (734) 769-7520
laundry. 1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
our pic- 5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
280580
Igan Re- P s el
vntown
2-bedroom apartments
bdrm. Fall and May leases available.
-8825. Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet.912 5. Forest.
x. 1114
al A/C. Call or email Post Realty for
ay. 734-
mm showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
40; info@postrealtyproperties.com
:e an Adx T.
i4-764-0557t r
-936 "54
ation. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
ch 020 - For Sale
re available- 025 - Parking
unt when 030 - Automotive
200l 00- 040 - Computer
privileges
n Express, 045 -Technology
050 - Furnture
ase call one
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
5 days 080 - Services
25.80 090 - Help Wanted

38.70 093 - Summer Employment
51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
its: The liability of
a specified issue 123 - Websites
rect insertion. TMD 125 - Music
ay of publication.
e extended atla 130 - Roommates
te. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
the ad has not yet
vertisements for 150 - Personal
order items prior to 10 Pes

3 PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
rver view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, March 24, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

0
6
6
0

ACROSS
1 Overactors
5 In pieces
10 Forget about
14 Object of
worship
15 Ladies' man
16 Costa__
17 Centennial State
rock?
20 Pilot's
announcement,
briefly
21 Frontierbases
22 Wolverine State
fire starter?
26 It'll neverfly
27 Bud's buddy
28 Wetlarnd
29 Oneinra "Flying"
circus act
32 generis:
uniqae
35 Peach State wide
open spawns?
39 Sixth sese
40 Baggage claim
item
42 Firm wayto
stand
45 Guy
48 Witaout
precedent
47 Cotton State
sculpture?
51 Italian veal dish
53 Pah preceder
54 CornhuskerlState
Town Car?
59 Quaint "Holy
moly"
60 John of England
61 BayoflPigs
locale
62 Disney dog
63 Catches one's
breath
64 T be, in old
Rome
DOWN
1 Juic drink with a
hyphenated
name
2 Big fuss
3 Minute particles
4 One of the
deadly sins
5 Coach
Parseghian
6 Pea's place

7 O'Neill's"_ for
the Misbegotten"
8 Blunt rejection
9 Playthe piccolo
10 Syntheticlfabric
11 "A living faith will
last in the _ of
the blackest
storm": Gandhi
12 "Rhyme Pays"
rapper
13 Old salts
18 Bitter complainer
19 Words before
smoke or flames
22 Copytcats?
23 Reflection
24 Bell hit with a
padded
hammer
25 Auto with a
four-rng logo
22 Cat alt, as
branches
31 Remoe batteries
32 [error left as is]
33 Like a 12-0
verdict
34 Basketball Hall of
Famer Dan
38 Mnta n ion
37 Neeson at
'Taken"

38 When many go 49 Watery trenches
tolunch under
41 Dally, the clone, drawbridges
was one 50 Italian lawn game
42 Derivatives ofait 51 Like Ogden
are used in Nash's lama, in a
sunscreen poem
43 Privilege loser, 52 Big name in
often video games
44 Bring down on 55 Place to park
the gidiron 56 Connections
47 Equally yucky 57 Barbell abbr.
48 "Mercy me!" 58 Rob Roy's refusal
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

Deadijne for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to public
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per lnefor ea
additiona consecutive issue. u Frequency and Bulk contracts a
contact our staff for details u Students may receive a 25% disct
ads are placed in person with avalid studentID (non-organizatis
business ads only) * Al ads must be prepaid unless prior billingp
have been established * We accept Visa, Mastercard, Americar
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display advertising, ple
of our Account Executives

ao

1 day 2 days
2 lines 8.60 12.90
3lines 12.90 19.35
4 lines 17.20 25.80

3 days 4 days
17.20 21.50
25.80 3225
3940 43.00

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD will be
TMID for failure to publish an advertisement for any reason, or for pubish
shall be limited to pubshing in a subsequent issue and not more than t
will be responsible for classified advertisement errors only if notified by 5
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates lines are consecutive inse
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am on originally s
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publcation deadline, but no refun
been published. Refusal: All ads are subject to editing and approval.
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD reserves the right to requ
accepting advertising.

accepted .Misprin
hing incorrect ads in
he cost of one incorr
5:00 pm on the first dr
ertions. An ad may be
scheduled ending dab
d wl be given unless
We do not publish ad
uest samples of mai

6

an Nador d s

03/24/09

I

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


k

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
porary,
UMMA from dif
From Page 1 On t
Wing, a
filter light into the Alumni Memorial by, is a
Hall in a way that would have been ist Wal
unthinkable threeyears ago. most ex
"We've been able to reopen the Beshty'
views through the building," Stew- meant t
ard said. tors exp
They're meant to be contextualiz- eight wa
ing, placingthe contemporary Amer- ates the
ican architecture of Louis Tiffany, of the mus
Tiffany and Company, in clear view The
of European sculpture. Looking gant as
across the Apse, you can see inside a a series
room of European art that showcas- lic reop
es the newest and most prized of the shape a
Museum's recent acquisitions. vehicle
Of the museum's 3,500 pieces several(
added to the collection in the past the Det
decade, a new painting by Joseph 2007 re
Wright of Derby has never been Exte
displayed anywhere and was long immens
believed lost. Interna
Steward spoke proudly of acquir- unity.
ing the piece in favor of the Art Art -
Institute of Chicago. "It was a coup with no
for us," Steward said. Despite the tures or
other attractions, the Frankel Wing The pre
is what's ultimately on display here, finally,
and rightly so. hard-foi
Finally, the Museum has a space by the
for modern art. At the heart of the accomm
new wing, the three-tiered Vertical
Gallery is a startling intersection of
cultures and displays. Asian, contem- C
and lack
DOWNTOWN ett said.
From Page 1 foot setl
lifestyle
The only maximum height ple living
restriction in D1 zoning districts Still,
exists in the South University Ave- areas ar
nue area at 170 feet. tial for
Beforethemeeting,Councilmem- density
ber Carsten Hohnke (D-Ward 5) be sever
said he thought the majority of the son, whi
meeting's discussion would focus Huron S
on building height limitations and should r
which parts of downtown are des- that if it
ignated Dl and D2. as D2, h
At the meeting, Hohnke's predic- business
tions came true as most Ann Arbor drastic f
residents raised concern over wheth- "It's a
er or not the areas nearSouth Univer- Thomps
sity Avenue and East. Huron Street anything
should be designated Di or D2. tinue ou
Dl zoning designations that are Busin
currently under debate by most res- most pe
idents and business owners pertain dense ci
to the areas along South University York, af
Avenue between East University A2D2 h
Avenue and Washtenaw Avenue Arbora
and East and West Huron Street. "I be
Some residents feared that if bring A
these areas are designated Di, as vibrant
they currently are under the A2D2 me not I
amendments, they will lose their New Yo;
historic charm. Rega
Christine Crockett, president of ences
the Old Fourth Ward Association, the ma
said she believes that zoning the ning Co
Huron St. area as D will ruin the designi
quality of life of surrounding resi- The i
dents by allowing tall buildings and zoning
high-rises to block natural sunlight will ta
from smaller residences. public w
"It's truly unfair to ask people to express
live in a constant state of darkness lic heari
 the michigan daily

S I GET P
0e 0 surva
PAID R
0)70) hour stu
must
webr
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose PARTIC
from. (734) 741-9300 experime
www.annarborapartments.net ments at
session,
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2 18+, a na
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl. vision co
'fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo- HUM00
cation for central campus right near bus nkalaida
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
Wi SCOREI
GRILL
S hrdworki
and kitch

Tuesday, March 24, 2009 - 7

and African artcare all in view
ferent angles in the gallery.
he ground of the Frankel
.nd in full view of passers-
display from emerging art-
ead Beshty that may be the
citing part of the Museum:
s work features a glass floor
o fracture over time as visi-
perience it, at least for the
eeks until a new artist recre-
space - a rotating cycle that
eum will continue to do.
student preview, extrava-
it may be, is just the first in
of opening events. The pub-
ening on Saturday will take
s a 24-hour open house - a
for broad exposure used by
other museums, including
roit Institute of Art in its
opening.
rnally, the renovation is an
ely modern, imposing work.
ly, the focus seems toube on
Uniting the observer with
Art with a capital 'A,' Art
boundaries between cul-
r the status of the observer.
'view tonight will provide,
the chance for Steward's
ught battle to be realized
audience he most hopes to
iodate: students.
- Daily Arts Writer Kimberly
hou contributed to this report.
of air and sunshine," Crock-
"Currently there's about a 50
back, which still preserves a
and quality of life of the peo-
g on Ann Street."
others worried that if these
en't designated D, the poten-
an increase in population
and financial growth will
ely impaired. Bruce Thomp-
t owns the property at 413 E.
t., said he believes the area
emain as D zoning and feels
were to become designated
is property along with other
es in the area would suffer
inancial consequences.
lready zoned as commercial,"
on said. "We're not asking for
gnew, we simply wantto con-
r earned entitlements."
ess senior Adam Blanck said
ople his age want to live in
ities, like Chicago and New
ter they graduate, and that
as the ability to make Ann
n up-and-coming metropolis.
lieve these proposals can
Ann Arbor to become a
city and make people like
have to look to Chicago and
rk to live," Blanck said.
rdless of citizens' differ-
over zoning designations,
jority thanked the Plan-
mmission for its efforts in
ig A2D2 thus far.
first reading of the A2D2
and parking amendments
ke place on April 6. The
ill have another chance to
its opinion at the first pub-
ng on April 20.

NEWSPAPER
From Page 1
said plans for the website are still
underway, but that it will likely be
supported by advertising revenue,
rather than require paid subscrip-
tions from its readers.
Daily circulation for the print
edition of the News is currently
about 48,000, with a Sunday.circu-
lation of about 60,500, accordingto
the News' media kit.
The cost of a monthly subscrip-
tion is $15.
Though The Ann Arbor News
has been in operation as the city's
primary daily newspaper since
1835, Champion said yesterday's
announcement does not mean "the
end of local journalism in Ann
Arbor." She added that the content
providedby the new website would
help fill the void left by the News.
JOURNALISM
From Page1
source that was launched last year,
declined to speculate about whether
the new AnnArbor.com will pro-
vide people with a replacement they
could be satisfied with. Though he
did say that Ann Arbor was "more
likely to embrace an online publica-
tion than other communities."
He said that people typically
cite interactivity, spontaneity and
publishing "as it happens" as the
advantages of online news sources.
"That is by no means our
strength," he said.
For Askins, the freedom to write
as much as necessary and include
as much detail and thoroughness
as possible sets online publishing
apart from print, where there are
limits on paper space.
"It's the vertical scroll bar we
take advantage of," he said.
Whether AnnArbor.com will
share this philosophy is unknown.
"The importantthing is thatyou
have a news organization that has
sustainable economics to it so that
it exists," Askins said.
Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje
said that although he was confi-
dent local news coverage would
continue without The Ann Arbor
News, he said "it does mean the
loss of another way to get info out
to the public."

Antoine Pitts, a14-year employee
of the News, learned of the closing
for the first time during yesterday's
staff meeting.
"There had been rumors about
things that were going to happen at
oursister publicationsthatmadepeo-
ple wonder if the same things were
goingto happen here," Pittssaid.
A sports reporter who covered
University of Michigan hockey
during most of his time at the
News, Pitts accepted an employee
buyout package first offered by the
News last fall in an effort to down-
size staff and cut costs.
Though Pitts has plans to begin
law school in the coming months,
he said that most people were
unprepared for the prospect of
unemployment.
"What was dropped this morn-
ing was a lot different than what
people had expected," Pitts said in
an interview yesterday.
"It's uncharted territory,"
Hieftje said of the loss. "But there's
still going to be news coverage
Indeed, many worry that for
newspapers with extensivecoverage
of local news, moving to the Internet
will have negative consequences.
Primarily, there is concern that
newspapers will lose the credibility
that sustains their traditional posi-
tion as a necessary check on institu-
tions - a protector of democracy.
Traditional newspapers, like The
Ann Arbor News, have been forced
to compete with an explosion of
online content, and as a result
they're suffering from declining
subscriptions and advertising rev-
enue. These factors is the crushing
economic crisis making consumers
think twice about buying some-
thing they can get online for free.
The Ann Arbor News is not
the first paper to go through this
transition. The Seattle Post-Intel-
ligencer published its final print
edition last Tuesday, and it's now
available only online.
According to Anthony Collings,
a Communications lecturer who
has also been a Washington cor-
respondent for CNN and the Lon-
don bureau chief for Newsweek, if
struggling news organizations like
The Ann Arbor News cut staff as a
means of restructuring their busi-
nesses as theymove tonewformats,
such a loss in credibility is likely.
"If they hire a much smaller

Champion said the News cur- that the Ann Arbor news market
rently' employs 272 people between makes it an ideal location to pursue
its newsroom on Huron Street in online readership.
downtown Ann Arbor and its print- "It is the perfect place to embark
ing operation in Pittsfield Township. on a Web-focused news and infor-
Though current Ann Arbor mationstrategy,"Kraner wrote."We
News employees will have the will be working with Ann Arbor's
opportunity to apply for positions residents and residents to build a
with the new company, the news- unique and innovative community
paper's shutdown will mean job news and informationservice."
losses for some of them. The first community forum will
Before the new website is take place at The Dahlmann Cam-
launched, Champion said the compa- pus Inn on Thursday, April 2 at 2
ny has plans to get input from com- p.m. The second forum will be held
munity members on the feature and at Weber's Restaurant & Hotel on
design aspects of the new website. Friday, April 3 at 10 a.m.
"It's really of the community, by Today's announcement came
the community and for the com- alongside several others to revamp
munity," she said. the Michigan-based newspapers
Matt Kraner, former chief mar- owned by the Booth Company.
keting officer of the Cleveland- Along with The Ann Arbor News's
based newspaper The Plain Dealer, closing, The Bay City Times, The
will be president and chief execu- Saginaw News and The Flint Jour-
tive officer of the new company. nal will reduce print circulation to
Kraner wrote in a press release three days a week.
number of full-time paid journal- The Internet has created oppor-
ists than they had before, obvious- tunities for contributions from
ly there would be a real question anyone with a modem. For years,
whether they could be a watchdog readers have been able to contrib-
as much as before," he said. ute their own perspectives through
Even more worrisome, Collings comment sections on news web-
said, is the tendency for news orga- sites. Blogs, many of them run by
nizations to try and fill the local individuals, have already replaced
coverage void solely with user- traditional news sources for a large
contributed content. number of readers.
Collings said that claims of com- Addressing Colling's concerns
munity inclusiveness can be used about credibility, Warner said
as "a euphemism for unpaid work media institutions will eventually
by unprofessional journalists - so- make the necessary adjustments to
called citizen journalists." make user-generated content more
Collings said there is "a risk that viable. She said she favors embrac-
they're not being professional, they ing the flood of user generated con-
won't be as cautious and skeptical, tent and energy.
that they won't have the skills that "Freedom of the press and free-
they need to evaluate information dom of speech don't just cover peo-
correctly, put it in context and be ple who own media companies,"
ethical."' 'Warner said. "It covers everybody
Communications Prof. Fara in the country."
Warner, a former Wall Street Jour- In order for user-generated con-
nal reporter, has a slightly different tent to become a viable supplement to
perspective. professionaljournalism, Warner said
"My big question is should this the public needs to be assured that
have happened sooner? Did we actu- the content is consistently accurate.
ally hold on too long?" she said. Warner said that perhaps a sys-
"I worry that we assume that tem where user-generated content
media must look the waythat it has could be put through some sort of
always looked to do what it's sup- editing process could be developed.
posed to do. I disagree with that," "We need to do a better job as
Warner said, "I hope journalism journalists in signaling to people
is more than just the newspaper online the context of information,"
it's printed on. It really is about Warner said.
the content and what we say, as
opposed to where we say it and in - Daily News Editor Lindy
what forum we say it." Stevens contributed to this report.


PUBLISHING
From Page 1
allow the University Press to bet-
ter serve some of its main clients,
including the School of Informa-
tion, School of Art & Design and
the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts.
Pochoda also said the reorgani-
zation will give the University of
Michigan Press more flexibility in
financing projects.

"Projects will not be subject to
profit/loss measurements," he said,
explaining that instead the unit
will need to be profitable overall.
Pochoda said that being profit-
able may not actually mean the
unit needs to make money, but
rather that it meet or exceed the
minimumbenefit deemed reason-
able by the University.
"To be fair, the new budget
hasn't been worked out yet," he
said.
The University of Michigan

Press budget is not expected to be
finalized until June when the Uni-
versity budget is finalized. As part
of the reorganization, the Univer-
sity of Michigan Press's budget

will fall under the jurisdiction of
the University Library budget and
the University of Michigan Press
will receive money from the Gen-
eral Fund.

U M A -.
[The University of Michigan Asks You]
U ASKS
YOU ANSWER
Watch for your email invitation from the Provost

AID CASH for taking online
eys. www.cashtopsend.com
ESEARCH: EARN $20 for I-
dy on website use. To qualify,
be an active blogger. Email
site-userstudy@umich.edu
'IPANTS FOR A psychology
nt on simple perceptual judg-
U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
pays $25. To qualify, must be
live English speaker, and have
orrectable to 20/20. IRB #:
020435. Email Natasha at
@med.umich.edu
KEEPER'S SPORTS
& Pub now hiring talented,
ing individuals for our wait
,hen staff, and floorman. No
rassary. Apply in person at 310
Ann Arbor. 734 995 01003
ON MACKINAC Island this
r Make life long friends. The
ouse Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
re looking for seasonal help in
s: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
les Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
s, and discounted meals avail-
all Ryan 1 (800)626 -6304.


DELICIOUS TREATS
DELIVERED - To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
PROFESSIONAL EDITOR AVAIL-
ABLE for all lengths student papers. U-
M exp. Contact kac.editing@gmail.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
MIBARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.

rap. nece
Maynard
093
WORK
Summer
Island H
Shops at
all area;
Staff, Sal
ing, bonu
able. C

For Wednesday, March 25, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
You feel restless today. You might or
might not know why, but you feel it.
This feeling will be gone in 48 hours.
Just cope as best you can.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
A friend might surprise you today.
Alternatively, you might meet someone
new who's a bit bizarre or unconven-
tional in some way. Stay on your toes!
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs are
completely unpredictable today. Quite
likely, someone will say or do something
that catches you off' guard. (It might
make you want to rebel.)
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Travel plans might be canceled or
delayed today. Possibly, an unexpected
opportunity to travel will arise.
Educational schedules will have
changes.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
A surprise gift from othersmight come
your way today. Or you might hear
unexpected news about an inheritance,
insurance matter or something having to
do with the wealth of others.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
It's hard to say what will happen when
talking to partners and close friends
today. People are jumpy, rebellious and
quick to have a big reaction!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Computer crashes, power outages, fire
drills, canceled appointments and staff
shortages are just some of the reasons
why your work day will be interrupted
today. Allow extra time for everything. au~

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
New flirtations from unexpected
sources could be a thrill today. Parents
should be extra vigilant, because this is
an accident-prone day for your children.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Minor breakages at home might occur
today. Surprise company could drop by.
Expected company might cancel. A fam-
ily member might do or say something
that surprises you. Just be cool.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
This is a mildly accident-prone day.
Slow down and watch where you're
going. Be aware of everything you say
and do. Take it easy.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You might find money today; you
might lose money. Stay in touch with
your financial scene so that you're ready
to fix anything that might go wrong.
Make friends with your bank account.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You feel restless and highly independ-
ent today. You don't want others telling
you what to do. You want freedom of
action. You also might go through a
bunch of mood changes all before noon!
YOU BORN TODAY You're not
afraid to think big! You're enthusiastic,
energetic and very loyal to your princi-
ples and your loved ones. You're highly
independent and frequently flamboyant.
Your energy is unflagging, which is why
you can accomplish so much. Key, close
friendships are vital to your happiness.
In your year ahead, an important choice
must be made. Choose wisely.
Birthdate of: Elton John, singer/song-
writer; Aretha Franklin, singer; Gloria
Steinem, journalist.

MNNVeosrroF MICHIGAN

present

Iiet s& travel
100
TRAVEL
Book your flight to Europe
for the summer during
March, and get your 1st
hostel night free!
STA Travel, Inc.
530 South State St
Ann Arbor MI 48109
T: (734) 769.2555
UMI@statravel.com

70Tl DiICO IRATE
Thursday, March
26th
8-9:50PM @ Yost
Ice Arena
DIICO MUIC, DANCE
CONTIT PRIIE!
www.umich.edu/yost Sponsored by Pizza Bob's

c2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

'4


*I

8 - Tuesday, March 24, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Berenson impressed with Vaughan's stint at wing*

By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
When Michigan hockey sopho-
more Ben Winnett injured his knee
Mar. 13 against Western Michigan,
the Wolverines lost an experienced
center on their fourth line and a key
penalty killer.
Winnett's injury didn't heal as
fast as the coach-
ing staff had NOTEBOOK
hoped, and Michi-
gan coach Red Berenson was forced
to move freshman Luke Glendening
to center in practice last week to
handle faceoff duties.
So, needing to fill a hole at right
wing, Berenson let his curiosity get
the best of him.
SophomoreScooterVaughan,who
had played defense his entire colle-
giate career, was surprised when he
discovered he would switch to the
open forward spot. The Placentia,
Calif., native played on the fourth
line in the CCHA Tournament last
weekend alongside Glendening and
senior Brandon Naurato.
With Alaska playing just three
lines for most of Friday's semifinal
game, Vaughan didn't see as much
ice time as Berenson would have
liked. But Berenson said Vaughan
looked decent in his limited oppor-
tunities.
"The thing I like about him is he's
an upbeat skater," Berenson said
Friday. "He's a better-than-average
skater and gives us some jump. He
also gives us some good puck touch-
es. He has pretty good hands and
he's hungry to play."

percent of their draws this season.
" Berenson admitted he was con-

I

cerned about the night-and-day
performance butsaid losing faceoffs
can depend more on individual
matchups than discouraging trends
within the team.
The player most responsible for
the discrepancy in the circles was
Notre Dame junior center Kevin
Deeth, who won 14 of 21 draws.
Deeth was surprisingly dominant
against sophomore forward Louie
Caporusso, taking seven of eight
draws from the Wolverines' top
faceoff man. Caporusso entered the
weekend having won 58.2 percent of
his draws. Deeth is just as impres-
sive in the circle, winning 58.4 per-
cent of his faceoffs this season.
HONOR ROLL: Caporusso and
junior defenseman Steve Kampfer
were selected to the CCHA All-
Tournament team after Saturday's
title game.
Caporusso had a goal and five
assists in four games in the tourna-
ment. The Woodbridge, ont., native
is tied for fourth in the nation with
24 goals. He is also one of10 finalists
for the Hobey Baker award, given
to the nation's top college hockey
player.
Kampfer notched two assists and
accumulated a plus-two plus-minus
rating in the conference playoffs.
Notre Dame goaltender Jordan

Pearce was the tournament's most
valuable player. Fighting Irish
defenseman Ian Cole and forwards
Ben Ryan and Calle Ridderwall
rounded out the All-Tournament
squad.
PERFECT ATTENDANCE: Senior
forwards Tim Miller and Travis
Turnbull both played in their 165th
consecutive game Saturday, break-
ing the program record set by Rob
Brown (1986-1990). Neither Miller
nor Turnbull has missed a game
during their collegiate careers.
Their streak dates back to 2005.
Miller, named CCHA's top defen-
sive forward last Thursday, has
scored a goal and three assists in
his past three games. Turnbullwent
pointless on the weekend.
NOTES:Saturday'sdefeatsnapped
Michigan's nine-game winning
streak at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit.
The Wolverines had not lost there
since the Fighting Irish beat them
in the 2007 CCHA Championship
game. ... Saturday marked just the
second time this season Michigan
has lost with a lead after two peri-
ods. The first came on Nov. 14, a 2-1
defeat against Western Michigan....
The fourgoals allowedin Saturday's
third period were the most the Wol-
verines have surrendered in a single
stanza since the opening round of
the 2007 NCAA Tournament, an 8-5
loss to North Dakota.

0

SAIDALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Scooter Vaughan had never played forward for Michigan until this weekend's CCHA Tournament semifinals and finals.

With Winnett still questionable
for Michigan's first-round matchup
with Air Force in the NCAA Tour-
nament, Berenson said Vaughan
might stay on the wing. Berenson
thought Glendening looked smooth
at center, and Vaughan said he felt
comfortable on the ice with his new
linemate.
"I think me and Luke cycle
the puck really well down low,"
Vaughan said. "I bring a little speed

and a little physical play. I didn't
really show thatmuch this weekend,
but it's something I need to work on
through practice and I'll getanother
chance this upcoming weekend."
Vaughan said his primary goal
entering the weekend was to have
a positive plus-minus rating. And
although he didn't record a point
against Alaska or Notre Dame, he
registered a plus-two on the week-
end.

TROUBLE IN THE CIRCLE: Michi-
gan looked like two different teams
in the faceoff circles last weekend.
The Wolverines won 42 of 68 draws
(61.8 percent) against Alaska, which
has won 50.3 percent of its faceoffs
this season.
But Michigan was uncharac-
teristically submissive against
Notre Dame, winning just 23-of-62
faceoffs (37.1 percent) against the
Fighting Irish, who have won 56

FOOTBALL UPDATE: TONEY CLEMONS TO TRANSFER
Sophomore wide receiverToney Clemons has left the football team,
according to the Valley News Dispatch (Pittsburgh). For.more
information, visit michigandaily.com.

Lee, Merritt and Shepherd were the nucleus of Blue's turnaround

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -
As C.J. Lee walked off the
court for the last time in
is career as a member
of the Michigan JASON
men's basketball KOHLER
team, not only
did the Michigan On men's
fans stand up and basketball
acknowledge the fifth-year senior
guard, but so did his teammates
and coaches.

If there was anyone who had a
right to hold a grudge against Lee,
it was Kelvin Grady, who Lee edged
out of the starting lineup. But the
sophomore guard embraced Lee in
a long hugbefore the captain took
a seat.
In the waning minutes of a loss
to Oklahoma Saturday, Lee had just
fouled out for the first time in his
career. Occupyingthe bottom posi-
tion in the 1-3-1 zone, he stood face

to face with the hest player in the
country, the Sooners' Blake Griffin,
and refused to back down.
And as Lee took a seat with
Michigan down by nine points, he
quickly jumped up, yelling com-
mands at his teammates on the
floor. Next to him, Grady followed
suit, yelling out, "Keep fighting!"
He was just following the lead of
his captain - something the Wol-
verines did all season.


Replacing Lee on the court was
fellow fifth-year senior captain
David Merritt. And in the final
minute, senior Jevohn Shepherd
subbed in.
On Selection Sunday last year,
Lee, Merritt and Shepherd sat
down and talked about how they
were goingto lead the Wolverines
back to the NCAA Tournament.
The weight was on their shoul-
ders. They didn't have a choice.
Without the seniors, this team
would have been lost and would
have lacked the guidance to take
the Wolverines back to the Big
Dance.
Coming into this season,
sophomore Manny Harris was an
unquestionably talented scorer,
but he was still young and very
quiet in the locker room. Junior
DeShawn Sims was more experi-
enced but was still adapting to his
new role under the guidance of
Michigan coach John Beilein.
The duo's star power wasn't
enough - the Wolverines needed
leaders.
Thisnseason, Lee averaged just
2.8 points and 1.5 assists and Mer-
ritt just 1.9 points and 1.0 assists.
But their impact on their team-
mates was unmeasurable.
They did the little things. They
talked when the team needed a
voice. They set the pace in practice.
They were the identity of the
team.
Beilein selected Merritt to give
the pregame speeches and gave
Lee the starting point guard posi-
tion - and their teammates were
watching.
Freshman guard Stu Douglass
said his whole motivation in the
NCAA Tournament came from
wanting to win for the seniors.
"You don't want tosee these

0

Fesse sMAN/aily
Fifth-year senior C.J. Lee was a nocal and emntional leader for the Wolnerines all year.

guys go," Douglass said. "That was
all the motivation in the world."
When Lee wentto the bench,
he knew it was the end, but he also
knew his team wouldn't go down
without a fight.
And in the waning minutes of the
game, the Wolverines put together
one of their scrappiest performanc-
es of the year. In the last possession
of the game, Michigan grabbed four
offensive reboundsbefore Sims
threw in a layup.
After the game, Lee said he
would like to be remembered as
a player that came every day and
fought hard, representing Michigan
to the fullest. Every time he put

on that jersey, people knew he was
going to bring it.
Lee then mused, "That's defi-
nitely what they can say about us
(as a team)."
Lee, Merritt and Shepherd won't
be back next year. But they won't
be forgotten. They can't be forgot-
ten because they are the epitome of
Michigan basketball.
A few years ago, Michigan bas-
ketball had a different image.
It was an image of the NIT. It
was the image of failingto win
down the stretch. It was the image
of teams with weak leadership.
These seniors changed that.
They didn't have a choice.

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
SUNGLASSES
and...more lasses?
In response to increased student demand, the
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
has expanded its 2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at
.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses
i4
S
(t

0

0
0
0

4
A


