yMxRE INSIDE
GGY"OP"AD THRNSTN "MO RE' SPORTS
A LLCNNECTET ANN A R ?M' picks up second Big Ten loss despite sophomore
Manny Harris's 20-point effort. 8A
OPINION
American Movement for Israel and Students Allied for
Freedom and Equality offer their take on Gaza. 4A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, January 15, 2009

michigandaily.com

ANIMAL TESTING
'U,under
fire for
testing
on dogs
Group files federal complaint that
University prof. made false
statements in order to perform
tests on live animals
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily Staff Reporter
The University of Michigan Health System's prac-
tice of using live animals to train doctors enrolled in
its Advanced Trauma Life Support course came under
fire yesterday when a federal complaint was filed with
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, alleging that the
University is in violation of the Animal Welfare Act.
The complaint, filed by the Physicians Committee
for Responsible Medicine; claimed that Dr. Richard
Burney, a professor of surgery in the Medical School,
made false statements in his recommendation to a
University committee in order to gain permission to
use live animals for his course. The complaint also
alleges that he gained permission to use the live ani-
mals when alternative methods of training have been
approved by the American College of Surgeons.
Burney's course currently uses dogs acquired
through a private research firm from shelters in
Mescota and Gratiot Counties. The dogs are put under
anesthesia and used as practice dummies for life-sav-
ing procedures. The dogs are then euthanized after
procedures due to severe injuries.
The University Committee on Use and Care of Ani-
mals has approved the practice, but Dr. John Pippin,
senior medical and research advisor to PCRM and
author of the complaint, claims false statements by
Burney may have led to the committee's decision.
See ANIMAL TESTING, Page 7A

PALESTINE

One of the demonstrators at last night's SAFE event on the steps of the Michigan Union.
Two events wpoi nts of view

Gaza supporters pack
Union steps, groups
for Israel wear blue
By NICOLE ABER
Daily StaffReporter
As the temperature neared zero
degrees on Wednesday night, about
200 people gathered on the steps of
the Michigan Union to protest Israel's
recent invasion of Gaza.
The demonstration was organized
by Students Allied for Freedom and

Equality, a campus student group on
campus that aims to promote human
rights and self-determination for the
Palestinian people, according to the
group's website.
Andrew Dalack, SAFE'S co-chair,
said the group planned the protest in
order to galvanize campus support for
the Palestinian cause.
"There's a sizable number of students
on campus that demands an immediate
cease fire, that supports an immediate
end to U.S. military aid to Israel and that
supports the full and immediate end to
Israel's current occupation in the Gaza
Strip and the West Bank," Dalack said.

Students and Ann Arbor residents
carne out in droves to show support for
SAFE's cause. Many protestors were
carryingsigns including ones that read,
"What has Zionism done for peace?"
as a woman shouted in a mega-phone,
"Boycott Israel now."
In addition to holding up signs, stu-
dents carried both Palestinian and
Hamas flags.
Dalack said he was upset that protes-
tors were carrying flags of political par-
ties, like Hamas.
"I was disappointedby the ignorance
some people displayed in their. lan-
guage, signage and behavior to onlook-

ers as well," Dalack said. "I hope that
the inappropriate behavior by some
community members does not reflect
on the community as a whole, as they
are supportive, rational and of high
moral caliber."
Members of Students for Social
Equality were also at the demonstra-
tion to show support for the cause,
despite minor disagreements with
SAFE's message.
"Students for Social Equality oppose
the attack, but we also try to bring per-
spective of the bankruptcy of religious
nationalism," LSA senior Daniel Green,
See TWO SIDES, Page 7A

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
State budget group proposes deep
cuts to higher ed. and scholarships

Options include cutting
7.1 percent of colleges'
funding or $200 million
* scholarship program
By DANIEL STRAUSS
Daily StaffReporter
Drastic measures to bring the state's
spending on higher education in line
with its declining tax revenues are cur-
rently taking shape in Lansing.
An education study group, commis-
sioned bythe state's Legislative Commis-
sion on Government Efficiency, outlined
several ways the state could save money
over the next couple of years.

A recent report from the study group
suggested abolishing thesMichigan
Promise Grant Program, which is bud-
geted at about $150to $200 million every
year. The scholarship program accounts
for 40 percent of all scholarship aid at
the University.
If the state decides to follow the
advice of the study group and cuts the
scholarship program, students at the
University who currently benefit from
the scholarship will still receive money.
The changes won't be felt until the high
school graduating class of 2010.
The group also suggested the state
reduce across-the-board spending to
higher education institutions by 7.1 per-
cent.
Other options included merging some
See STATE BUDGET, Page 3A

PROPOSED OPTIONS
Budget analysis group's potential cuts
Eliminate the Michigan Promise Grant Program,
beginning withthe high schoolgraduatingclassof
2010, for annual savingsof $150-$200 million.
Reduce University and Community College
Operations appropriations across the board by
7.1%. for savings of $12.2 million.
Mergeor consolidateuniversitiesand/or community
colleges within a region for potential annual savings.
Priatizethe Universityof Michigan-AnnArbor, for
a savints of $226.7 mifflion.
Developa fundingformulaforthe15publicuniver-
sities that takes into account total expenditures
at each university, tuition revenue,,changes in the
number of students, and types of programs and
degrees offered.

The Ross School of Business students and faculty shuffle by the Siegle Cafe yesterday.
Norovirus outbreak
suspected in Ross cafe

FUNDING THE 'U'
University receives record amount from NIH

$301 million in federal
research funds puts 'U'
at No. 7 nationally
By ESHWAR THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Medical School
received more than $301 million for the
2008 fiscal year from the National Insti-
tutes of Health - its single largestsource

of federal funding, according to a recent
press release.
The record amount puts the Medical
School seventh on the list nationally of
all universities for NIH grant funding,
behind leader Johns Hopkins Universi-
ty. The University was second on the list
for medical schools affiliated with public
universities.
Close to 45 percent of the Univer-
sity's research expenditures came from
NIH grants, which were used to fund
everything from studies in the School of

Nursing to studies in the Undergraduate
Research Opportunity Program.
Dr. James Woolliscroft, dean of the
Medical School, said the funding is espe-
cially significant given the current eco-
nomic situation.
"Especially in the current tight fund-
ing climate that we and all medical
schools face, the entire U-M Medical
School community should take pride in
topping $300 million in NIH funds for
the firsttime, and in ranking firmly inthe
See RESEARCH FUNDING, Page 3A

Authorities believe virus
began with sick workers
and is now contained
By JACOB SMILOVITZ
ManagingNews Editor
A norovirus is the suspected culprit of
a slew of illnesses suffered by employees
and students who work and study at the
newly constructed Ross School of Business
cafeteria.
Authorities believe the outbreak began
when one employee of the recently opened
Siegle Cafe came to work with the illness

and, due to its highly contagious nature,
spread easily.
As of Wednesday afternoon, the illnesses
of 13 workers in the cafe and 10 people who
had eaten there were being linked to the
norovirus outbreakbased ontheir symptoms,
which include mostly intestinal and stomach
problems. None of the people who reported
their illnesses to community health officials
have been hospitalized as of Wednesday
afternoon.
Terry Alexander, the executive director of
the University's Department of Occupation-
al Safety and Environmental Health office,
which oversees campus community health
issues, said authorities got involved when
See VIRUS, page 3A


WEATHER H1I:4 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMOR ROW LO: -2 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

ON THE DAILY BLOGS
Infamous 'U' hockey player gets in NHL game
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S................................2A CROSSW ORD......................6A
Vol. CXIX, No.74 OPINION ...IO .......... ......4A CLASSIFIEDS.............. ...6A
P2009heMichigana SPORT.... . A THt I-SIDE...B
michigovdaily.com

p"

4


2A - Thursday, January 15, 2009

.

2A -Thurday Janary15, 009The Michigan Daily - michigandailytcom

Bringing the Olympic torch to 'U'

University athletes have
always had a prominent place
in the Olympic Games. From
track and field star Eddie
Tolan to the most promi-
nent face of the 2008 games,
Michael Phelps, athletes
have represented the Maize
and Blue well in interna-
tional competition. But what
if instead of just competing
in the games, the University
hosted them?
In 1958 the University
almost got that chance.
That year the United States,
along with three other coun-
tries - Japan, Austria, and Bel-
gium - was being considered to
host the games in 1964.
Many helieved that the
United States would he select-
ed, and if chosen, Detroit
would have heen the front-
runner to host the games.

The other possible cities were
Chicago, Philadelphia and
Los Angeles - which hosted
the Games in 1932.
If Detroit had heen select-
ed as the hosting city, former
University Athletic Director
H. 0. "Fritz" Crisler said he
would have allowed the use
of Michigan Stadium, Perry
Field and Yost Field House for
the track and field games.
Crisler added that he would've
also allowed the use of Univer-
sity Housing facilities.
Greg Kinney, associate
archivist at the Bentley His-
torical Lihrary, said that the
Michigan Stadium was listed
to potentially host soccer
matches, and the University
could have also heen used for
swimming and diving.
Although Michigan never
got the chance to host the

Olympics, the state had a few
proposed plans just in case.
Former State Sen. John
Swainson (D-Detroit) pro-
posed a plancto build a 100,000-
seat stadium at the Michigan
State Fairgrounds in Detroit to
accommodate the Olympics.
Sn addition, new hotels
were scheduled to he built in
Detroit prior to 1964 to house
spectators.
But it was not to he. On May
26, 1959, Tokyo, Japan won
the right to host the Olympics
with 34 bidding votes by the
International Olympic Voting
Committee. Detroit came in
second place with to bidding
votes. Vienna, Austria and
Brussels, Belgium followed
with 9 and S bidding votes,
respectively.
VERONICA MENALDI

CsANEt VON HABSBURG-LOTHRINGtN/Daily
LSA freshman tlise Aikman shops for tasters in the basement of She
Unoa yesterday. The tasters at salt at the display range tram sparts
pastors, replicas of French impressionist marks and political pastern.

~The1Miiioan 3aUlp
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaity.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGUI
Editor in Chief Business Hasager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandailycom bugigmichnigandaitycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehors:Su.-Thurs. 11taon. - 2a.m.
News Tips news@nichigandaiy.com
torrections corretion@nichigandaily.con
Leters to the Editor tothedailypnihigandaily.com
Photography Department pheoojmihigandaily.com
Arts Section artspagegnichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinio@michigandaily.com
Sports Sectior sportspnichigandailycom
Displap Sales display@nichigandaily.com
tlassified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Onlite Sales onlineads@michigandaily.czm
Firarce fiennemichigandailyecom
EDITORIAL STAFF
tourtney Ratkowiak Managingtditor ratowik@nhchigandaily.com
Jatob Snilndtz Managing NewsnEdior sniloitzmnhigandaily.com
SonENOR NESEORSJillin Berma,,n,Teo Car, JleRe,,Lidy Stevens
RobertlSoave EdiitolPgeEdito on avem ihigandaiy.com
AnSOTEEDOROIAL AEEO RS: Esmi,,Barton, ia lahr ahel VaSnoilder
Andy Reid MnagingSports Editor reidpnihigandaily.com
SENIOR SnORTs EonTORS: NicoleAuerbach, nike Eisenstein, Dan Fld, Chris 0,
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
Dasid Walnick Managing Artditor watnick@michigandaily~com
SENIoO ARS EDITOS: Jai~e Blok,eBaon Cmoa, Whineow
ASSTA RS EDTOna RSeJoshuaBayer,,Ande Ln, Dav e, Ben anaoner
ZacharyiMeisner ard photo@nhchiganday corn
tliftReeder MoanagigPhotoEditrs
SENI0 OnoHOnO EOSSaid Alsalah, Chal Von Hbsbur-Lothingen,
Argela thih and deign@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesigntEditors
SNeIOR DESINaEDORS:oillaryeRunf
Jessita Vosgenthian MagazineEdinon vosgzrhia@nihigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEtditor nerian@nihigandily.com
Kathmrine Mitchel) CopytChief nitcezll@nichigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboen iplay Advnreising SalesnManager
Newman,Chise P~ohillips
Rpan Businski ClassierdSalesManager
Classified Saes AssistantManager:AlisoThmas
Marissa Gerber Online SsManagnr
Ben English erodoctionDesinMonager
Allison Sanlatrea LayouteManage
Daniel theung FinanenManager
ThenMichignntDaly(IStS0745-967 ispublishi ed oa ho Fidyingh fll mni, anr
tnrmsby sdnt tnheUnvnrstyeofMihign.Onne py isnavilbln reo harge toiall radis.
Addiionlcp~esyb pike upoaheiley'fie feo.Scinpinsfr fll te,string n
Sepmeva..miez l ar~,e $110.int~e t ermJnahoAril) s $115yealongeptember
thonugh Ari s$15.Unv ersiflaes ae subject oa eduedesbsipinrtOn-apus
sub~srinsfrf~lnlitermae3Sub~scriptionmbe prepaid.The MidhigntDalyisamember of
TheAsocated PessandThe AsoiatedCollegatePess

CRIME NOTES
Cash box swiped Laptop stolen,
from poster recovered, then

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Talk on women Info session on
and the economy UROP, WISE

salesman
WHERE: Michigan Union
Grill
WHEN: Wednesday at about
3 p.m.
WHAT: A College Poster Sales
representative reported a cash
boa containing $400 stolen,
University Police reported. The
larceny is under investigation.
There are no suspects.

stolen again
WHERE: Medical Science
Building Unit
WHEN: Between Jan. 9 and
Jan. 13
WHAT: A laptop was reported
stolen one day after it had been
recovered by police at the Eel-
logg Eye Center, University
Police reported.

University bus Police respond
in fender bender to Bbal scuffle

WHAT: Teresa Ghilarducci
from the Hew School for
Social Research will give
a lecture called "Women'
Financial Futures: Trends and
Policy Initiatives."
WHO: Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Room 2239, Lane
Hall
Lecture on
street life in
public places
WHAT: Artist Nick Tobier
will give a talk called "Inter-
ruptions for Everyday Life" as
part of the Penny W. Stamps
Distinguished Visitors Series
WHO: School of Art &
Design
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Theater

WHAT: An information ses-
sion about science related
learning communities.
WHO: Undergraduate
Research Opportunity Pro-
gram
WHEN: Tonight at5 p.m.
WHERE: Room 2165, Under-
graduate Science Building
CORRECTIONS
. An article in Monday's
edition of the Daily (In Other
Ivory Towers) Utah State
University was misidenti-
fied. It ls located in Logan,
Utah.
" A photo in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (GM, 'U'
join to test batteries) had an
incorrect caption. Mynungo
Chung is performing a dem-
onstration in the photo.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

1A man in Mobile, Ala.
linked to series of vehicle
burglaries left a sex tape
in an abandoned sport utility
vehicle, the Mobile Press-Reg-.
ister reported. Police said they
had to look through a series of
explicit images before finding
the suspects face in order to
identify him.
2 Grammy-nominated
recording artist, Janelle
Monae will perform at the
Michigan. Theatre on Friday.
The urban-alternative singer
will be performing in honor of
Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
> *ORMORE, SEt B-SIDE, PAGE 6B
3Less than half of Brit-
ish students finish com-
pulsory schooling with
basic English and math skills,
the Daily Mail reported. More
than 34S,000 students failed
to meet the government's goals
for achievement and one in six
students finished 11 years of
schooling without getting a C.

WHERE: 400 block of State SL.
WHEN: Wednesday at about
1:00 p.m.'
WHAT: A University bus collid-
ed with another car, University
Police reported. Both vehicles
had minor damage, and no one
was-injured.

WHERE: Intramural Sports
Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
7:00 p.m.
WHAT: DPS was called for
help with an uncooperative
person after a dispute on the
basketball court, University
Police reported.


0

FL.ORIDA SPRING BREAK ROOM PACKAGES 4 DAYI3 NITE 6 DAY/5 NITE 8 DAY/7 IT

6

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
RAMALLAH, West Bank
Obama team
assures lawmakers
about bailout
President-elect Barack Obama
would spend the remaining $350
billion of a financial bailout fund
on expanded lending and reduced
foreclosures and would not use
the money to help other industries,
lawmakers said yesterday after dis-
cussions with Obama emissaries.
The Senate was set to vote today
on whether to release the money.
Lawmakers insisted that Obama
advisers put their assurances in
writing before the vote.
Seeking to secure votes from
wary members of both parties,
Obama aides fanned out across the
Capitol yesterday. Their lobbying
effort culminated in a closed door
meeting between Senate Repub-
licans and top Obama economic
adviser Larry Summers and incom-
ing White House chief of staff,
Rahm Emanuel.
The private guarantees went
further than what Obama's team
has been willing to discuss publicly
about his plans for the second half
of the $700 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program.
SEATTLE
Apple CEO Jobs
backtracks on
health, takes leave
Apple Inc. co-founder and Chief
Executive Steve Jobs said yesterday
he is taking a medical leave until
June, even though just a week ago
the cancer survivor tried to assure
investors and employees his recent
weight loss was caused by an easily
treatable hormone deficiency.
Apple's stock dropped 6 percent.
Jobs, 53, said in a letter last week
that he would remain at Apple's helm
despite the hormone problem, and
that he had alreadybegun a "relative-
ly simple and straightforward" treat-
ment. But in an e-mail to employees
yesterday, Jobs backtracked.
"During the past week I have
learned that my health-related
issues are more complex than I
originally thought," he wrote.
Apple's shares have surged and
crashed over the last year in step
with rumors or news about the
CEO's health and his gaunt appear-
ance. While the top executive's
health is an issue for investors in
 any company, at Apple the level of
concernreaches feverpitchbecause
Jobs has a hand in everything from
ideas for new products to the way
they're marketed.
ROANOKE, Va.
S Kellogg pulls
crackers after
recall by suppliers
A peanut butter maker that sells
bulk supplies to institutions issued
a nationwide recall as officials yes-
terday reported two more deaths
associated with a salmonella out-
break. Its client Kellogg Co. later
asked stores to stop selling a vari-
ety of peanut butter crackers.

Lynchburg-baeed Peanut Corp.
of America issued the recall late
Tuesday for 21 lots of peanut but-
ter made since July 1 at its plant
in Blakely, Ga., because of possible
salmonella contamination. The
company supplies peanut paste to
Kellogg, which yesterday asked
stores nationwide to pull peanut
butter crackers sold under the Aus-
tin and Keebler brands.
Kellogg, based in Battle Creek,
Mich. said it hasn'tfound problems
or received complaints about those
products.
MONTPELIER, Vt.
Biting cold in
northeast, record
lows hit Michigan
The cold wave that stunned the
nation's midsection expanded into
the Northeast yesterday with sub-
zero temperatures and biting wind
that kept even some winter sports
fans at home.
The wind chill hit 33 below zero
during the night at Massena, N.Y.,
and the National Weather Service
predicted actual temperatures
nearly that low in parts of the
region by tonight. The weather ser-
vice said Flint, Mich., set a record
low early yesterday at 19 degrees
below zero.
S Forecasters also issued a lake
effectsnowwarningyesterdaynight
for southwest Michigan, where a
foot of snow or more could fall.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

A Palestinian woman stands on the rubble ofa destroyed building after an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City, yesterday.
Egypt, Mamas optimistic
about 10-day cease-fire deal

Agreement could be
stepping stone to
long-term deal
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) - Egypt
and Hamas are close to a deal for
a 10-day cease-fire between Israel
and the Palestinian militant group
in Gaza, where the death toll from
the Israeli offensive exceeded
1,000, officials said yesterday.
Egyptian and Hamas offi-
cials expressed optimism that
an agreement for a temporary
halt in fighting could be sealed
soon and presented to Israel. But
even if all sides sign on, further
talks will be needed to resolve
contentious disputes over polic-
ing Gaza's borders and ensure a
longer-term truce.
"We're working with Hamas
and we're working with the Israeli
side. We hope to reach an outcome
soon," Egyptian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hossam Zaki told the
British Broadcasting Corp.
STATE BUDGET
From Page 1A
colleges and universities, or pos-
sibly privatizing the University of
Michigan, which the commission
estimated would save the state
$326.7 million.
Gary Olson, director of the state
Senate Fiscal Agency, who also
headed the study group, said he
would rather cut the scholarships,
than enact statewide spending cuts.
"My feeling is that if higher ed
needs to be cut,- cut the Promise
Grant instead of funding across
the board." Olson said "You can
cut direct aid to the universities
and community colleges and you'll
get $200 million in savings."
Olson said he didn't know how
likely it will be that the state will
heed the commission's recommen-
dations.
Still, many students at the Uni-
versity would rather the state not
cut a scholarship program.
Engineering junior Andrew
Till, who currently benefits from a
merit scholarship, said that schol-
arships are more important than
ever these days.

Nine Israeli human rights groups
accused the army of endangering
Gazan civilians and called for a war
crimes investigation. The groups
wrote to Israeli leaders that -the
Gaza campaign has left civilians
with nowhere to flee. Foreign Min-
istry spokesman Yigal Palmor said
Israel supports freedom of expres-
sion, even if an opinion "is not based
on any solid evidence and even if it is
tainted with politicalbias."
Guerrillas in Lebanon sent
rockets crashing into northern
Israel yesterday for the second
time in a week, drawing an Israeli
artillery barrage and threatening
to drag the Jewish state into a sec-
ond front.
Egyptian and Hamas officials
held intensive talks in Cairo. Late
yesterday, Salah al-Bardawil,
a Gaza-based Hamas official,
stopped short of saying Hamas
had accepted the Egyptian pro-
posal. He told reporters that "we
submitted our points of view" on
the proposed deal, adding, "We
hope that this Egyptian effort will
"I think that with the econo-
my being the way it is currently,
that it's kind of a bad idea to say
'here's this great school but we're
not going to give you money even
though you're a good high school
student,' " Till said.
He added that it sends the wrong
message to students because the
state should be telling students
that they will be rewarded for
doing well in high school.
LSA sophomore Anne Lerums
said scholarships help keep the stu-
dent body economically diverse.
"I know that there are many
students who would not be able to
attend the University of Michi-
gan if their scholarships didn't
exist," she said. "I think that
would be a huge loss for the Uni-
versity of Michigan to not have
those students who wouldn't be
able to afford it otherwise."
Lerums, who is on scholar-
ship herself, said that without
the tuition help she wouldn't be
able to attend the University.
Lerums also said a 7.1 percent
'statewide budget cut wouldn't be
ideal, but is probably preferable
to a decrease in scholarships.
"I feel like there are a lot of

succeed."
Ghazi Hamad, another Gaza-
based Hamas official, told the BBC,
"I am optimistic now because I
think there is no other choice for
us. ... This kind of agreement can
be done now, and I think now there
is good progress in Egypt. We hope
that now Egypt will contact Israel
and talk about all issues."
But there were signs Hamas'
leadership-in-exile had reserva-
tions. Osama Hamdan, a leading
Hamas official in Beirut, said there
were still points Hamas had not
agreed to. "We do not agree with
the initiative as it stands now," he
told Al-Jazeera TV.
The contradictory comments
were the latest sign of cracks
between Hamas leaders under fire
in Gaza and the leadership-in-ex-
ile, which is largely based in Syria
and is seen as more hard-line.
Hamas officials, however, insist
that the movement is unified, and
it was not clear if Hamdan's tough-
er tone was a negotiating tactic or
a sign of division.
things on the campus that we could
go without," Lerums said.
The University's Office of
Financial Aid said it's unable to
comment on the recommenda-
tions because there's currently no
formal legislation.
Olson said the commission will
include its recommendations in its
final report to the state legislature,
which will be presented no later
than September.
"What the legislature does with
it is their call," Olson said. "The
commission has no authority to
anything other than make recom-
mendations."

RESEARCH FUNDING
From Page 1A
national top," he said in the press
release.
Shantell Kirkendoll, senior pub-
lic relations representative for the
Medical School, reiterated the
tough economic environment for
government funding, saying that
difficulties in procuring grants
were largely reflected by the
amounts NIH had available to dis-
tribute in 2008.She went on to add
that the grants that the University
earned last year are already being
used.
"The money that's come is
already paying for the work being
done by our researchers and phy-
sicians," she said. "It pays for
everything from their salaries to
their supplies and other services
that they need to keep their labs
running."
In the past, donors to the Uni-
versity like Bill and Dee Brehm,
Alfred Taubman and Charles Mott
have enabled researchers to con-
tinue their studies and clinical tri-
VIRUS
From Page lA
there was a spike in the number
of voluntarily reported illnesses in
the area.
He said his team got to work
Monday by interviewing the work-
ers in the caf6 and other patrons
who had recently eaten there.
Two sanitarians went into
the facility, Alexander said, and
took samples of all the public
surfaces in the Business School
building. The samples were
then sent to a testing lab for the
state.
But Alexander said that OSEH
officials didn't want to wait for
the results of the testing, so they
closed down the caf6 Monday
night to clean it. They sanitized
all the public spaces, public
bathrooms and all other surfac-
es that people often touch in the
building.
They also threw away all food
products that potentially could
have been contaminated.
After a team of inspectors re-
evaluated the facility Tuesday,
OSEH officials allowed the caf6 to
re-open.
Charles Amyx, the director of
operations for the Business School,
said the school will continue to
sanitize the building every night
for the next two weeks based on
protocols outlined by the OSEH
office.
Despite the ongoing sanitation
efforts, Alexander said he's satis-
fied that the outbreak was suffi-
ciently contained.
"At this point we're not seeing

Thursday, January 15,;2009 - 3A
als so they can gain further NIH
fundingin what is now an increas-
ingly competitive grant applica-
tion and allocation process.
Of the 712 grants awarded to the
University, the $55 million Clini-
cal Translational Science Award
and a National Cancer Institute
grant awarded to the Southwest
Oncology Group were among the
most substantial. Kirkendoll said
the two awards are the kinds of
compelling achievements that
"launched us over the $300 mil-
lion total."
Kirkendoll also attributed the
University's achievements to the
quality of the research faculty
and facilities on campus. She said
the Biomedical Science Research
building, which openedin Febru-
ary 2006 and currently houses 250
biomolecular research labs, is one
such example of the attractive fea-
tures of the University that have
encouraged continued support
through grant funding.
"Part of our success certainly
has to do with the talent of people
here as well as our facilities," Kirk-
endoll said.
any new illnesses being reported,"
he said. "We're going to continue
to stay on top of the cleaning for a
number of weeks."
Though authorities are still
uncertain of the exact cause,
Alexander said it was probably
the result of one of the employees
comingto work ill.
"Likely it was one of the work-
ers," he said. "Because workers
became ill before people eating at
the facility."
Alexander said this likely has
nothing to do with the Business
School's recent move to the new
building.
"You see these things pop up
wherever you have large gather-
ings of people and all you need
is one person who is not feeling
well," he said.
A similar outbreak occurred
about three years ago, Alexander
said, in one of the residence halls
on North Campus. He said that
one was harder to contain because
there was such a large population
in such a small area.
According to an e-mail dis-
tributed to some members of the
Business School community Mon-
day night, Assistant Dean Graham
Mercer writes that officials "are
taking the conservative approach
of treating this as a Norovirus out-
break."
That e-mail message was
delayed in reaching a portion
of its intended audience due to
"technical difficulties" and was
only received by some members
of the Business School commu-
nity early Wednesday afternoon,
two days after OSEH officials got
involved.



Car Repair

fll~~ Professional
8uto ie ProAutoTechs.com
n Technicians 734.665.9707
The Driving Force in Auto Repair

ammoual


0

4A - Thursday, January 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

L I74 ft igan al
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Setting the record straight
RIAA policy change is long overdue and better for students
here are a lot of things you could do with $3,000. You could
pay rent for a semester or two. You could buy a lifetime
supply of Insomnia cookies. But the last thing you'd want
to do is settle a lawsuit. At least this is less of a worry now that
the Recording Industry Association of America has announced it's
finished going after individuals for their Internet file-sharing. And
while it should never have taken so long for the RIAA to abandon
this awful practice, the policy change is good news for students,
who bore the financial brunt of the RIAA's lawsuit campaign.

ROSE JAFFE

- aRAPFc.
The wrong reverend

0
*
6

Since 2003, the RIAA has been target-
ing users who illegally download music
with lawsuits, and it's favorite target was
busy college students. The lawsuits typi-
cally increased right before finals so that
students would be less likely to spend the
time and effort needed to take the RIAA
to court. Because dealing with a calculus
final and an attorney in the same week isn't
exactly ideal, most students chose to settle
out of court with the RIAA for about $3,000
per case.
The RIAA has admitted to specifically
targeting college students because more
than half of students file-share. But it's
easy to see that another good reason is
that going after people without the time or
resources to fight back is the easiest way to
make a quick buck. More than 60 Univer-
sity of Michigan students had to hand over
their cash.
But just last month, the RIAA decided on
a new strategy that would move away from
handling individual cases itself, instead
relying on Internet service providers to
enforce rules against illegal file-sharing.
Under this policy, if your provider finds you
engaging in illegal downloading, the RIAA
will be notified, you'll be warned and then.
your Internet may be slowed or stopped.
While this new strategy is a more reason-

able way of handling illegal downloading,
it's puzzling that it took the RIAA five years
to realize its method was flawed. It's also
quite clear that its motivation was probably
not compassion for the prosecuted indi-
viduals, but rather the storm of bad press
the RIAA received for targeting individu-
als like young people, a poor single mom
and a dead person. Hopefully, with the new
policy in place, the RIAA will concentrate
its efforts against more serious file-sharing
threats.
Just because the penalties have lessened
doesn't mean students should increase
their illegal downloading. Downloading
copyrighted music without paying for it is
still illegal, and that's because of an impor-
tant need to defend the intellectual prop-
erty rights of the artists who created these
songs. The new policy does, however, rep-
resent a fairer way of addressing students'
illegal actions.
And the RIAA certainly isn't off the hook.
While relying on ISPs to track activity is a
much more responsible solution for dealing
with illegal downloading, it has been made
clear that this policy could be amended for
the RIAA to once again file lawsuits against
anyone it wishes. But with any hope, college
students have written their last bigcheck to
the RIAA.

arack Obama and reverends
just don't mix. I've been
amazed that Obama's contro-
versial selection
of Rev. Rick War-
ren to deliver the
invocation at this
month's inaugura-
tion has.been such
a recurring con-
versation topic.
This issue boils
down to one ques- ROSE
tion: should Rick AFRIYIE
Warren remain the
invocation speaker
or should Obama
rescind the invitation?
The notion of tolerance is being
used to justify both sides' opinions.
On one hand, an editorial that ran in
the Detroit Free Press (Pomp and Poi-
gnancy, 01/04/2009) described War-
ren's inclusion as "proving that the
American tent can be large enough
for nearly anyone." But some argue
that tolerance should be a criterion
for inclusion in the inauguration,
meaning that someone who has used
his religious platform to discriminate
against homosexuals doesn't quite
pass the tolerance test.
In the previous election cycle, the
LGBT community endured grievous
marital and adoption restrictions,
and more than 40 states now restrict
LGBT marriage in some way through
bans or laws. If you've been reading
the news lately, you may think that
it's no secret where Warren stands
on this issue, but I'm not so sure. An
interview with Beliefnet.com epito-
mizes why some want Obama to
choose another pastor. In this inter-
view, Warren makes the conclusion
that marital incest, polygamy and "an
older guy marrying a child" is equiva-
lent to same-sex marriage.
The notion that two consenting,
homosexual adults and an older man
who preys on children are the same
is understandably appalling. How-
ever, this came as no surprise to me

considering that sexual policies sup-
ported en masse by Warren and his
conservative ilk are in accordance
with the sexual value system that
University professor Gayle Rubin
identified in her 1984 essay, "Think-
ing Sex: Notes for a Radical Theory of
the Politics of Sexuality." She states,
"According to this system, sexuality
that is 'good,' 'normal,' and 'natural'
should ideally be heterosexual, mari-
tal, monogamous, reproductive, non-
commercial... coupled, relational,
within the same generation."
This is the rationale that has
made stalemates of abortion and gay
marriage issues and has restricted
contraception and adolescent sex
education. Anything from marital or
child sexual abuse to gay marriage is
equally transgressive in the eyes of
line-towing conservatives because it
deviates fromthis "vision"- which is
Rev. Rick Warren's professed belief.
Butwhatsurprisedme isthatbefore
he made this gay-marriage, older-
guy marrying-a-child comparison,
he asserted that he believes in "full
equal rights for everyone in America,"
including partnership benefits.
In truth, Warren may share a lot
with some evangelicals, Christian
fundamentalists and secularists who
have various reasons for opposing gay
marriage. But Warren's anti-equal
marriage stance and his declaration
favoring equal rights for all means
that he also shares something funda-
mental with every democratic con-
tender for the presidency this past
election cycle, including Obama.
As it stands right now, we live in
a country where many believe it is
politically unsafe to publicly support
equal marriage, which explains the
suspicious unanimity amongst every
presidential contender this past sea-
son. But unfortunately, it's also costly
to have dissenting opinions from
one's political group. And perhaps
this business of disagreeing agreeably
presents an opportunity for Obama to
impart a lesson about inclusion.

It's also reasonable to speculate
that appointing Rick Warren as the
invocation speaker is a way to mollify
conservatives now for what is yet to
come. When Barack Obama was con-
tending for the presidency, he vowed
that passing the Freedom of Choice
Act was the first thing he would do
as president. This is a policy measure
that would ensure that every woman
had a fundamental right to choose
birth or an abortion. The 36th anni-
versary of Roe v. Wade is two days
after the inauguration, and editorials
are being written daily from conser-
vatives who are anxious that Obama
will stand by his word.
Why Rick Warren
shouldn't deliver
the invocation
Obama's recent choice to appoint
Gene Robinson, an openly gay Epis-
copal Bishop, to deliver the invoca-
tion this Sunday mitigates some of
the blow that Rick Warren's Tues-
day invocation appointment dealt
the queer community. Howlever, I
still cannot stand behind Warren as
the invocation speaker. Warren has
abused his mantle in the public arena
to a degree that is reprehensible. To
assert that child abuse is akin to sexu-
al relations between same-sex adults
isn't just offensive - it also raises
the question of his ability to deliver a
national message that respects both
the gay and straight of our country.
Someone who has a question like that
looming over his head should not
have the privilege of addressing the
nation at the most televised inaugu-
ration of our lifetime.
Rose Afriyie is the Daily's sex and
relationships columnist. She can be
reached at sariyie@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:S
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions
become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.


i

CAMPUS DEBATES
THE CONFLICT IN GAZA

- --------------

STUDENTS ALLIED FOR FREEDOM AND EQUALITY1 1

AMERICAN MOVEMENT FOR ISRAEL

IT

An appeal for human rights

Israel's defensive mission

Last month, Israel launched a massive air strike on
various infrastructural targets in the Gaza Strip. On
January 3, Israel continued its assault on Gaza with
a wide-scale ground incursion that included several
thousand members of Israel's reserve military forces.
Israelhastwicerefused adiplomatic conclusiontothe
hostilities, instead claiming to seek a more "durable"
solution to Hamas' rocket fire into southern Israel.
In the process of attempting to realize this "durable"
solution, Israel has managed to terrorize Gaza's 1.5
million Palestinians, killing more than 1,000 people
- including 315 children.
According to many in the pro-Israel community,
the current offensive is a direct response to increased
rocket fire from Hamas following the expiration of a
ceasefire on December 19. By claiming its actions are
"self-defense," Israel has yet again succeeded in mis-
leading the international community and completely
ignoring the historical context of Israel's 41-year-old
military occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
In order to justify its current bombardment and
18-month siege of the Gaza Strip, Israel presents itself
as the blameless victim of rocket attacks from crazed,
anti-Semitic Muslim terrorists seeking to disrupt
Israel's democracy and way of life. This distorted
perception of the Palestinian resistance movement
is largely uncontested by many in the international
community and therefore affords Israel the opportu-
nity to economically, politically, and militarily inca-
pacitate both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
While Israeli officials claim they are targeting
Hamas "militants," it is clear the current offensive
has affected every man, woman and child in Gaza.
On January 6, scores of women and children seeking
refuge at a United Nations school were slaughtered
when two tank shells exploded outside the building.
This is particularly appalling considering the United
Nations regularly provides Israel with its exact loca-
tion. The next day, UN officials denied Israel's claim
that militants were operating near the school when
it was shelled.
In order to realize a just and lasting peace, we
must ask questions that address the root of this con-
flict. Classic anti-Semitism or an intrinsic hatred of
Israel cannot explain Hamas' rocket fire into towns
in southern Israel. Many view Hamas' actions as a
response to Israel's history of aggression and occupa-
tion that has included the forced dispossession and
expulsion of 750,000 Palestinians in 1948, the occu-

pation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip since 1967, the
systematicexpropriationofPalestinianlandsthrough
settlement construction, expansion and home demo-
lition, humiliation Palestinians face under a brutal
occupation that regularly subjects Palestinians to
curfews, illegal detention, political assassinations,
military incursions, checkpoints and an inability to
exercise social and political autonomy. The question
here is not the justifiability of rocket attacks out of
Gaza, the question is what compels someone to shoot
homemade rockets at Israeli civilians in Sderot and
Ashkelon? By subjecting the Palestinians in Gaza to
disproportionate and particularly savage forms of
collective punishment,
Israel continues to per-
petuate the seemingly
intractable nature of the
conflict.
Contrary to Israeli For- W hat is the na
eign Minister Tzipi Liv- between the
ni's claim that "there is no
humanitarian crisis in the Israelis whatC
Gaza Strip," the people of
Gaza are suffering from a the fighting in
devastating humanitari-
an disaster. Since January both sides ach
2006, Israel has imposed
a series of economic and
social blockades on the
Gaza Strip - including
the current 18-month-old
siege - that have resulted in soaring unemployment
rates, poverty, and food, fuel and medical shortages.
As a result of Israel's current land invasion, nearly
250,000 people are without electricity and running
water and hospitals are overflowing with patients
seeking urgent medical care.
Israel cannot ignore its human rights violations
against the Palestinians for muchlonger. Regrettably,
any ceasefire is destined for failure as long as Israel
and the international community refuse to examine
the core of the conflict. Any lasting peace requires
Israel's recognition of the Palestinians' right to exist
freely, either as citizens of a sovereign Palestinian
state or as co-citizens with Israelis under a secular,
one-state democracy.
Andrew Dalack and Bre Arder are the co-chairs
of Students Allied for Freedom and Equality.

Itu
P;
ca
G
ie

As news channels flash through images of suffer-
ing Palestinians, it's challenging for those of us on
the other side of the world to understand the Israeli
Defense Force's actions ir the Gaza Strip. While
conditions in Gaza continue to worsen, Israel's war
against Hamas continues. As we all mourn the loss
of human life, it's important for us to examine the
reasoning and strategy behind Israel's defensive
mission.
In 2005, Israel unilaterally disengaged from
Gaza, removed settlements throughout the area
and took a crucial step toward establishing a Pal-
estinian state. In January of the next year, the
Palestinian people demo-
cratically elected Hamas
to a majority in the Pales-
tinian legislature. Prom-
ising better healthcare,
are of the conflict education, jobs and less
alestinians and corruption, Hamas pro-
vided an enticing option
in be done to stop to Palestinian people in
need.
xaza and how can Once Hamas took
power, the party's actions
've lasting peace? proved that the plight of
its constituency was less
important than radically
denying Israel's right to
exist. Instead of investing
in the vital infrastructure
that the people of Gaza need and deserve, Hamas
focused on acquiring rockets to fire at Israeli civil-
ians and digging tunnels to smuggle weapons from
Egypt. Hamas's illogical set of priorities has left the
Palestinian people with a leadership unwilling to
guide them in a progressive or peaceful direction.
Over 7,000 rockets launched from Gaza have fall-
en on Israeli soil in the three years since the Israeli
disengagement. These rockets are not fired at mili-
tary bases or weapon depots, but at schools, homes
and marketplaces. These actions cannot be consid-
ered an attempt to reach a peaceful resolution.
For years, Israel has tried a variety of nonviolent
methods to combat Hamas's violence. After a six-
month ceasefire that Hamas continually disregard-
ed, Israel must now address the needs of its citizens.
When President-elect Barack Obama visted Sderot,
the Israeli city closest to Gaza and most affected by

the ongoing rocket attacks, he said, "If somebody
was sending rockets into my house where my two
daughters sleep at night, I would do everything to
stop that and would expect Israel to do the same
thing." The people of Sderot and the other 500,000.
Israelis in range of Hamas's rockets should no lon-
ger undergo the emotional and physical trauma of
having to find refuge in bomb shelters 10 to 15 times
per day. Thankfully, few civilians have been killed
during these constant, random rocket assaults on
civilians. But the low Israeli death toll does not make
Hamas's actions any less belligerent or terrifying.
Israel has consciously done its best to prevent
the deaths of civilians. The IDF specifically targets
locations Hamas has used to store weapons or fire
upon Israelis. Before it bombs a location, the IDF
drops leaflets and sometimes calls civilians to ask
innocent bystanders to leave the area for their own
safety.
Unfortunately, Hamas hides behind civilians,
using human shields to raise the death toll in the
ongoing public relations battle to accentuate Pal-
estinian suffering for world approval. What sort of
government monopolizes the pain of its people to
further a destructive ideology?
The delivery of humanitarian relief to the affect-
ed civilians in Gaza remains an important issue to
Israel and the rest of the world. Hundreds of supply
trucks have been brought through Israeli border
crossings, including medical supplies, blood units,
medicine, and basic food commodities. Whether or
not these supplies are properly distributed to civil-
ians depends on Hamas as the governing body of
Gaza.
Three years ago, Israel spent millions of dol-
lars removing its citizens and troops from Gaza in
an effort to further the peace process. Today, it is
forced to reenter the region in order to protect the
basic living conditions of its citizens. The goal of a
two-state solution inspired by August 2005's dis-
engagement has been deterred by years of rocket
attacks and recent explosions of violence, but cannot
be forsaken.
We encourage the Michigan community to con-
tinue to hope for a peaceful solution with an end to
the violence on both sides of the border.
Rachel Goldstein is the chair of American Movement
for Israel and Daniel Neumann is the AMI Treasurer.
'A 4 .


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 15, 2009 -5A

Mitera finally discusses knee

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Mark Mitera skated Friday for the
first time since sustaining a bad knee
injury on Oct. 9, but his real home-
coming was in the locker room.
Just over three months since the
Michigan senior captain suffered a
torn left anterior cruciate ligament
in the team's season opener, he put
on his equipment, laced up his skates
and grabbed a stick.
Though he'd spent time in the
locker room for team meetings, put-
ting on pads there was special.
"Just seeing him in the locker
room with his gear on, it's a big
morale boost," junior acting captain
Chris Summers said. "He's been
with us off the ice as much as he
can be, and that part of his situation
with the injury didn't really change.
It's great seeing him on the ice."
SEASON OPENER: 38.8 SECONDS
LEFT, FIRST PERIOD
Near the end of the first period
of the season-opening game, Mitera
and St. Lawrence junior forward
Augie DiMarzo collided. Both play-
ers were sent sprawling to the ice.
The defenseman didn'treturn to the
contest, and MRI results confirmed
what many feared.
"(Mitera) doesn't go down for
nothing,"senior Tim Miller said after
the game. "When I saw his face as he
limped off the ice, it scared me."
The initial diagnosis was difficult
for Mitera, a 2006 first-round NHL
draft pick of the Anaheim Ducks.
Doctors gave him a three-to-six-
month timeframe for returning to
the ice if he underwent surgery.
"When I first heard the news, I
pretty much wrote myself off for the
season, given a timeline like that,"
Mitera said.
Even with such a serious injury,

n JEREMY CHO/Daily
Senior Adam Harris is eager to avenge last April's loss to Ohio State in The Dual.
Michigan- Ohio
State riRvalr is
revisited on track

By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan men's track and field
coach Fred LaPlante isn't sure
whenhis teambeganits countdown
for "The Dual" against Ohio State,
but he thinks he remembers the
number being as high as 120 days
at one point.
This Saturday, Ohio State
LaPlante will
lead the 17th- at Michigan
ranked Wol- 
achp:.
vernes against Ohio State 1-0;
the Buckeyes in Michigan 0-0
The Dual at the When' Satur-
Indoor Track day 12 RM.
Building - a
meet the team Where' U/M
has had circled Indoor Track
for months.
. Michigan is TV/Radio: n/a
20-3 all-time
against Ohio State in indoor meets,
but LaPlante said this year's Buck-
eyes are a very strong team.
"The rivalry type of competi-
tion is great, and it's amazing how
athletes just come out of the wood-
work," LaPlante said. "There's
always someone you wouldn't
expect to do something who does
really well. It's about right now, not
what you did last year. It's about
right now."
The Michigan-Ohio State rival-
ry isn't new for LaPlante - but the
side he roots for is. The first-year
Wolverine head coach admits that
during his childhood in Toledo, he
was "one of those Ohio State peo-
ple" who loved to hate Michigan.
Dual meets between schools are
rare, with only other one on this
year's schedule on April 11 against
Ohio State in Columbus. Prior to
last year's revival of the now-annu-
al event, The Dual hadn't taken
place since 1993.
"You have to get that extra inch,
you have to make that third jump,"
LaPlante said. "Your key is that
you can't allow yourself to mental-
ly break under any circumstances.
It's willpower."
Given the magnitude of the
meet, fifth-year All-America
sprinter Dan Harmsen doesn't
expect willpower to be much of an
issue for the Wolverines.

He said the members of the
team who also play on the foot-
ball team have expressed great
enthusiasm for this weekend
after last November's game in
Columbus. The two-sport ath-
letes include sophomore sprinter
Troy Woolfolk, redshirt fresh-
man thrower Vince Helmuth,
freshman thrower Mike Martin
and freshman sprinter Michael
Shaw.
"Losingthepastfourorfiveyears,
they have a little more juice us their
tank for this meet," Harmsen said.
"The rivalry stems from footfall,
and we're carrying it onto the track.
It's goingnto he a hot meet."
Ohio State makes the trek up to
Ann Arbor after winning its first
meet, the Rev. Mike Hout Invita-
tional, at Capital University Open-
er on January 10.
Although Michigan won hand-
ily 90-72 in last year's Dual, the
Buckeyes took the outdoor match-;
up 110-93 last April in Columbus.
Senior All-American sprinter
Adam Harris won the 60-meter,
the 200-meter and the long jump
in last year's indoor Dual victory,
but he still feels a chip on his shoul-
der after the outdoor loss to the
Buckeyes.
"We're not thinking about any-
thing besides this meet," Harris
said. "I'm not thinking about Big
Tens or anything.yet. We want to
get our pennant back."
The Wolverines aren't going
into the weekend with an entirely
healthy lineup. Unable to com-
pete in the Dual due to injuries
are senior All-American sprinter
Mike Barnes and junior pole vault-
er Chris Baldwin. Junior captain
Frank Shotwell and redshirtjunior
Lex Williams are.questionable.
But LaPlante said he feels a per-
sonnel shuffle tests him more as a
coach.
"I loved baseball growing up, so
I like the idea of strategy - who's
going to be in your lineup and
who's going to run what events,"
LaPlante said. "Maybe some guys
are injured and can't run. You put
someone else in.
"But they're the athletes, and
they're the ones who are going to
score."

he still faced many options: red- maintained an optimistic approach Steve Kampfer, who was rehabbing
shirting and returning for a fifth to the unfortunate injury. a fractured skull, and the two often
season, signing with Anaheim "He's handled it well," Berenson watched the team practice from the
and rehabilitating there, playing said. "He's been very supportive of standstogether.
through the injury with a brace or the team, very positive about his sit- . Kampfer returned to the ice in
getting surgery immediately. uation. He's handled it like a pro." December, much faster than expect-
Miteraopted togoundertheknife, Mitera's rehabilitationbegan just ed, and Miterasoon followed suit.
and on Nov. 6, surgeons performed days after the surgery. He started off
ACL reconstructive surgery. riding a stationarybike and eventu- A MONTH AHEAD OF SCHEDULE
Michigan coach Red Berenson ally moved on to weight training. He Mitera said he felt "rock-solid"
and teammates said the senior often biked with junior defenseman
See MITERA, Page 8A

For third time in 11 months, Rodriguez
gives 'U' students chance to join team

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
ManagingEditor
At this time last year, the idea
of a Michigan football open tryout
was a novelty.
But by now, it's become tradition
- and for the third time in11months,
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
and his staff will be searching for
athletes who worried more about
college applications than letters of
intent in high school.
The last two tryouts, held in
February and September, included
footwork stations, position drills,
timed 40-yard runs and gassers.
Friday's tryout will be 30 minutes
shorter than in the past.
Wide receiver and defensive
back prospects were in high sup-
ply during both workouts. But
Rodriguez said in both February
and September that he was dis-
appointed by the number of "big
guys," potential offensive and
defensive linemen.
Two months after Rodriguez
took the Michigan head coaching
job, he held the first open tryout
in program history. Sixty-five ath-
letes tried out, and 12 were invited
back for additional evaluation.
Four athletes - redshirt fresh-
man cornerback Tony Anderson,
redshirt sophomore cornerback
Bobby Centlivre, redshirt sopho-

more linebacker Mike Fish and
redshirt sophomore safety Nick
Koenigsknecht - made this year's
fall roster.
This September, three days after
Michigan's season-opening loss to
Utah, 28 students came to Schem-
bechler Hall at 6:00 a.m. for their
shot to wear the maize and blue.
Five athletes earned spots on the
initial list, and freshman defensive
back Matt Cavanaugh, redshirt
freshman linebacker Russ Furrha
and redshirt freshman defensive
lineman Dominique Ware made
the fall roster.
"We showed up to practice not
knowing what to expect at all, so
we just went in and basically did
what we were told," Cavanaugh
said. "There was a lot of intimida-
tion from not being on the team
to going into everything 100 per-
cent."
Cavanaugh said current person-
al goals for himself and the other
walk-ons range from moving up to
the first line of the scout team to
getting on the field during a game
on special teams.
And in just two semesters,
one of Rodriguez's walk-ons has
accomplished both. As a fresh-
man, Anderson worked out at the
CCRB four to five times per week
for about four months prior to last
February's tryout. After Anderson

made the team and finished spring
practice, Rodriguez named Ander-
son the walk-on with the most
potential to see the field.
And he did, playing on special
teams in the last five games of the
season after making his Wolverine
debut against Michigan State.
Anderson's success motivated
his friend Ware to also try out, a
camaraderie that extends to both
groups of 2008 walk-ons.
"A lot of the walk-ons from the
last tryouts, they are legit on the
team -they have respect from the
trainers, coaches and other play-
ers, even," Cavanaugh said. "Most
of them do, not all of them do. But
those guys, they know what we're
goingthrough and they know what
we're thinking."
Rodriguez also knows what
they're thinking. While in col-
lege, he walked onto the football
team at West Virginia after turn-
ing down football and basketball
scholarships atother schools.
"I was lucky - all I wanted was
for them to give me a good .look,"
Rodriguez said after February's
tryout, explaining his walk-on
experience. "I had one year to
make it, because if I didn't make
it, I would have had to transfer
because I didn't have the money.
But I got a scholarship after the
first year, so it worked out fine."

tryouts as a coach at both West
Virginia and Michigan, Rodriguez
is still just as eager to talk about
the potential of Michigan's undis-
covered varsity athletes.
"It's been beneficial," Rodriguez
said after last February's tryout.
"To me, it gives a guy a chance to
chase a dream, and what's wrong
with that?"

Internship Fair
Thursday, January 22nd
12noon-4pm at The Michigan Union
Meet with organizations targeting
UM students.
Registration on-site the day of the event.
Check-out participating organizations at
www,.careercenter.umichedu
Quick Tips
Dress professionally
Bring your resume
Check the Fair website f'r mov eips
because.-sometimes your pasion pursues you!

Multicultural
Career Fair
Wednesday, January 21st
2-6pm at The Michigan Union
Discuss full-time job & internship
opportunities with organizations from
across the country!
Registration on-site the day of the fair.
See our website for a list of participating
organizations.
Quick Tips
Dress professionally
Bring yourresume
Check the Fairwebsite for moretps
cnw ed with PerrioCOmanY

Summer 2009 in Paris
A large selection of undergraduate, credit-bearing courses
" One 7-Week Summer Term " Two French Immersion Sessions
. International Studies . The Arts
Email: summer@a up.edu www.aup.edu

Forme.inarioncntc

Formore information contact as at:
3200 SAB
034)7647460
wwwcareunceter.umicb edu

TheCareerCenter
EU15am mlostt A(

The Career Centel
ma sionofStuentAfefir


"". "" '^.""'"'^^" '^"""""" ."" L.1M}VAYAR}{{}L Y} FLMT}Gl}i li}}R.L


0

6A - Thursday, January 15, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6

parkingr
025
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300
PRKG SPACES 2 blocks from B3-
School at Hill and Church. $100/mo.
734-260 4003.
PRKG. SPOT AVAIL. on central cam-
pus. $80/mo. 248-348-8205.
COmputers
EE MAJORS. TOPANGA Schematic-
Maker. electrical schematic and docu-
mentation software. immediate down-
load $59.99 www.topangasoftware.com
for rent
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!M!AWESOME!!t 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $349/mo. 845-399-9904.

IA
WilsonWhite
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WrrH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED -IN
UNIT'
(scale 5 bedroom
apartments @61 1
Churc6! lTey are
newly constructed5
bedroom, 2.5 batt
apgartme nts, WiM 7al
tC /73e/ Satesnc/reate5t
amer7ities, uire a
washer an Jnrter in
tin t!

GREAT PACKARD LOCATIONS:
526 and 917, large balconies/patios,
heat, water, parking, furnished, dish-
washers, laundry. Huge 2 bedroom
apartments great for 3-4 people!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
GREAT LOCATION FOR this 4-bed-
room, 2-1/2 bath house on the north
side. Fenced yard, lawn & snow care in-
cluded. 2-car attached garage. Great for
students. Located on Pontiac Trail be-
tween Dhu Varren and Skydale. Easy
access to downtown and highways.
Contact A. Rasmussen, Reinhart Prop-
erty Manager, at 734-669-5846 for
more info. View other listings at
www.ReinhartHomeRentals.com
VARSITY MANAGEMENT
734-668-1100, Studios, 1, 2, 3 and 4
bdrms. 09/10 on Central Campus!

READER
KNOWS
BEST.
Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aa best
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*BACK 2 SCHOOL Open House this
Thurs. 3-7pm at 4 Eleven Lofts. 400 E.
Washington (@ Division) Walk-
Through our full scale model and don't
forget to ask about FREE PARKING
www.4ElevenLofts.com
734Bdrm.Apt.
0 S. Forest
$1500 Copi Properties
-663-5609
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Fu., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
ONE MONTH FREE!!!
Plus get up to $500 off your first
months rent!
This ends 1-16-09
*Rent a full 2 bed, get I entry
for the drawing
Ends 1-16-09
*applies to F, G, and H only
734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
6 BDRM. FALL 09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.

Ff80 Food every wee
*Offer applies for F, G, & H units whe
you rent a two bedroom apartment
(Ends Friday, January 16, 2009)
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.uniuversitytowers-mi.cow
University
Tower
-
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1200/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
4 BEDROOM APARTMENT:
To see it, is to say WOW! A Unique
and spacious apt. in a beautiful con-
verted house. Hardwood floors, high
ceilings, furnished, dishwasher, large
yard. www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
1 BDRM. & EFFAPTS
$500-$6001
SEPT. 20091
COPI PROPERTIES
734663-5609
4 BLOCKS FROM Union. Big hse: 5
1g. bdrms. (5-7 persons) Living/dining
rms. 2 kitch., 2 bath., 2 study, Free
ldry. & parking. $3200 (734) 717-2017.
4 ELEVEN LOFTS, Brand New for
2009. 3, 4, & 5 resident lofts available
with individual housing contracts start-
ing at $655/month. Model open 7
days/week. 400 E. Washington (@ Di-
vision) Visit www.4ElevenLofts.com
6 BDRM APPARTMENTS
Sept. 2009
$2400-$2800
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
954 568 2514
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint-
ments available too if you need them!
Wilson White Management
734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com

6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. 2 fridges. front porch &
deck in back. no coin Indry. $3400. 502
Benjamin. Call 248-214-8708. Fall
2009.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., lawn-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 min. walk to
Union. $2399 +util.734-709-5709.
6 Bedroom Apartments
$2400-2800
Sept. 2009
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadiam. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.
Apartments Availabel

VIlA
Wson hire
401 East
Madison
cro l-0 ( New 0) G
Fe oroow. + stVt4
apartoets for FoLL
2009, corer of
P ~c'uO . FLoor pLas
avc ! LacbLe.
43-15/ ovwth
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperies.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qui ure ig'hrse- vnlekfrv oCopus
OiCara Tosc
734-663-1530
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
so visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close t central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaler
available too! All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rsh is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of peope
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at1734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water incl. $1999/ mo. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
Classifieds
continued on
the next page

a

02.04.2009 - START planning now! U
of M Housing Fair in the Michigan
Union ballroom; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Stop by and find your houstng
for nest year...now! Wilson While
Management 734-995-9200.
www.wisonwhitemanagement.com
y.11::a

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Lousing Pall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
W . - Usw h A3 -6 o 244 406
insofohite noissaproperties.com
u

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, January 15, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 59 Heart 32 Doctorfor losers 42 Muscular jerks
1 Feeds, as pigs 60 Doesn't give out 33 Hubbard of 43 Louvre Pyramid
6 "All That Jazz" Scientology architect
director DOWN 34 Trails 44 Remote battery
11 Plant activity: 1 Boundary 35 Overshadows 45 Shangri-la
Abbr. markers 38 Eat atla 47 Paper unit
14 Prairie home 2 Where some restaurant 49 Collectible
15 WWi blockade pounds are spent 39 College board frames
vessel 3 Operates like a members 51 Philosophy
16 Ring bearer window shutter 40 Muzzle-loaded 52 Old AT&T
17 please, 4 Look through the rifle - rival
Woody": shutters 41 Disentangle after 53 "Spy vs. Spy"
"Cheers" request 5 Colorful wrap a tackle magazine
18 Home of Miller 8 Tasted red,
Pak M ma e d' ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Illinoisbirthplace 7ODramasprize L A P L S A T C 0 M S A T
of Fre 856Across nute I Y E S AfI
fFrd 9 Got an eyeful of I V Y E N Q S A V 1 A T E
MacMurray 10 Greek "H" F I R E S A L E R E A L E R
22 Reallygv(over) 11 Vietnam's _ E V E N I F P E R A A R
23 Lackluster Delta D O U B L E W H A M M Y
24 Li some 12 ShelleyDuvall's R A D 0 N N 0 W E R A
26 Midday event 1 Talehea AXE TAU CATNAP
27 Traiingsitefor arelayed i R E V O L V I N G C R E D I T
toirmnfirstll 19 "Fsstr' from E LO P ES GIMS D
Airmenfir above T E T P E A E Z R A S
African Amercan 2! Cassis aperitif S L I D I N G S C ALE
fighter pilots 24sBllparkfigs. E 0 T A G B U R E A U
29 Oxlikeantelope 2Fight enders R O N D O S T H E D O O R S
30 Pie chart part 27 Giggle
31 Florida State's 28 The FPac-'s I A U N NE
city GoldenoBears FtI L ETS T E SS SA D
36 Enjoy retirement, 30 Bullpen triumph xwordeditorgaol.com 0114/09
27 3atcc. 4 B 5 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
37FPartof C.l.C.: 2 5 0 5 5 0 0 5 5 f1
Abbr. 14 15 16
40 Childhood
hometown of 17 a 19
actor Jack Oakie
(which explains 20 21 22
his stage name)
43 Movie parrot
46 Detaches, as a 25 27 2
brooch
47 Restaurant host's 29 30
purview
4 oover31 32 3 34
49 Massachusetts3
city that once
held an annual ao 1 42 a3 44 as
kielbasa festival
50 Florida winner of 40 47
a 2008 All- ass
America City
Award 50 51 52 53 54
54 Printing pioneer
55 "Slippery"tree 55 se57
568Ato A, e.g.
57Capt.'s inferior 58 59 50
58 French
possessive ByDnNa d.01/15/09
(c)209omibes,Mdia uSerices,tInc./1fl

Howe# Avoilable rfia
2009
3 bedrooms;
520 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
6 Bedrooms:;
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500

I I - - ---

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior0to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per linefor thefirst issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. a Frequency and Bulk contracts areavailable-
contact our staff ftordetailsa" Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) 9 Al ads must be prepaid unless prior bllng privileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check a For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045- Tachnology,
050 - Furriture
060 - For Rent
070 _ Subet

2 lines 8.0'
3lines 12.90
4 lines 17.20

19,3

.4)

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as de
TMD for failureto pubish an advertisement for any r
shall be limited to publshing irn a subsequent issue

ed by T

wi be respnseforc lassifed adveri ser vn erors onyrrf t
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rates lines are conse
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful by 11 30 am on
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publication deadlPne, bu
been publshed. Refusal: Al ads are subject to editing and a,
resale of tickets at more than face value TIMI reserves the ric
accepting advertising,

I wil be accepted. Misprints: The liabity of
r publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
te than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
ed by 5:00 pm on the first day of publcation.
itive insertions. An ad may be extended ata
iginally scheduled ending date. Refunds:
o refund wil be given unless the ad has not ye1
>roval. We do not publish advertisementsfor
it to request samples of rait order items prior to

090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Chld Care
100 Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainmert
150 - Personal
160- Pats

i

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 15, 2009 - 7A

ANIMAL TESTING
From Page 1A
"We believe that this animal use is
a violation of the Animal Welfare Act
because the principal investigator pro-
vided false information about alterna-
tive non-animal technologies to justify
animaluseinhis(InstitutionalAnimal
Care and Use Committee) protocol,"
Pippin wrote in his complaint to the
Department ofAgriculture.
Pippin said the University could
easily use cadavers or human body
models as alternatives to live animals.
The University is currently in
possession of a TramaMan System,
one of the best alternative meth-
ods for this type of training, Pip-
pin said. A TramaMan system is an
anatomical human body designed
for students to practice emergency
surgical procedures.
Pippin is asking the Department
of Agriculture's Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service to inves-
tigate the matter.
In an interview yesterday, Pippin
did admit that it wouldn't be illegal
to use live animals for this pur-
pose if disclosed properly, but said
he wasn't approaching this from a
legal standpoint.

"It's not illegal to use animals for
this purpose, but it also is not nec-
essary," he said. "Our appeal to Dr.
Burney all along has not been based
on legal issues, but based on best
practices."
Pippin said PCRM began conver-
sations with Burney in Aug. 2006,
encouraging him not to use animals
for ATLS courses. However, he said
Burney has stated consistently that
he wanted to use live animals over
simulator programs.
Howard Rush, director of the
unit for laboratory medicine at the
University of Michigan Health Sys-
tem, said UCUCA thought Burney's
recommendation to use animals in
ATLS courses was appropriate, and
so they approved his request.
"There's more than one way to
teachthesecourses,andDr.Burney's
explanation seemed quite appropri-
ate," he said. "From his perspec-
tive the use of a live animal is much
more realistic and much more like
what a physician would encounter
in an emergency room, compared to
the use of a mannequin."
Rush called the number of ani-
mals used over the course of a year
for Burney's ATLS courses very
small, estimatingthat approximate-
ly 20 animals are used each year.

Despite pressure from Pippin and
the PCRM, Rushsaiditwouldbeleftto
Burney to decide whether to continue
using animals for ATLS courses.
"That wouldn't be a decision that
would be imposed on Dr. Burney by
the University Committee on the
Use and Care of Animals," he said.
"That's a decision he has to make."
A statement released yesterday
by the University's Health System
in response to an article by the
Detroit Free Press refuted several
of Pippin's claims.
"Advanced Trauma Life Support
courses provide highly-specialized
surgeons the training they need to
evaluate and manage patients with
acute life-threatening injuries dur-
ing the first hour after a trauma
incident," the statement said. "The
majority of medical schools teach-
ing ATLS courses use live, anes-
thetized animals because they, like
U-M experts, believe it is essential
for expert training."
Additionally, the statement
called PCRM an animal right's
group, saying it is largely funded
by PETA - People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals - and that
less than 10 percent of its members
are physicians.
According to the University's

statement, the University is in com-
pliance with all state and federal
regulations on humane animal care.
"U-M meets or exceeds the
high standards of humane care for
research animals that are required
under its own rules as well as state
and federal rules," the statement
said. "The University Committee on
Use and Care of Animals, made up
ofscientists,non-scientists, citizens
and veterinarians, must approve
and supervise every research proj-
ect that uses animals to make sure
the animals are well cared for and
humanely treated."
In the interview yesterday, Pip-
pin said he thinks the University is
on par with its peers with respect
to the training of medical school
students, but said he has concerns
about the ATLS program.
"We certainly don't have a beef
against the University of Michi-
gan," he said. "We think the U-M
has been quite progressive in its
medical student curriculum, but for
this ATLS program, which is indi-
vidual driven ... we would like to
prevail on (Dr. Burney) to open his
mind and look at what's going on
around him and make the change
to use these simulators, which pro-
vide better training."

No jail time for
Madoff again

Prosecutors want
cooperation from
alleged Ponzi
scheme mastermind
NEW YORK (AP) - Bernard
Madoff returned to court in a
bulletproof vest yesterday and
won another round in his fight to
stay out of jail. But a larger issue
loomed over the court: negotia-
tions for a potential plea deal.
Bail fights such as this usually
carry motivations that are never
stated on the court record, and the
securities fraud case against Mad-
off appears laden with them.
Experts say prosecutors may
want him in jail to increase pres-
sure on him to cooperate or to
reach a plea deal more quickly.
Or they might want to punish
him for not cooperating enough,

while yielding to public pressure
to make an example out of Mad-
off during the nation's economic
troubles.
"Like any defendant, a person
who is already in (prison) has
much greater incentive to resolve
it than someone on release who
is looking at a significant term if
convicted," said Michael Garcia,
the U.S. Attorney in Manhat-
tan until days before Madoff's
arrest.
Madoff has become one of the
most vilified men in America since
he confessed to stealing $50 bil-
lion last month in what may be the
largest Ponzi scheme ever. The
scandal has touched every corner
of the world, wiping out life for-
tunes, decimating charities and
apparently pushing one investor
to commit suicide.
Investors are furious that he
has been allowed to remain on
free on bail.


TWO SIDES
From Page 1A
a member of Students for Social
Equality, said. "We think that it's
very destructive - Hamas's role in
this. We're here in support of the
opposition of the attack and the
occupation, but we also have a per-
spective which may not be the same
as everyone here."
While SAFE was busy making
preparations for the protest, yester-
day, members ofthe pro-Israel com-
munity took part in a "Blue Out" in
order to show support for Israel.
The Union of Progressive Zion-

ists, the American Movement for
Israel and Israel Initiating Dia-
logue, Education and Advocacy,
organized the Blue Out, in which
they encouraged students to wear
blue in support of Israel during this
"difficult time," said LSA junior
Bria Gray, chair of the UPZ.
"What we're promoting is that
everyone wear blue in support of
Israel," Gray said. "We're promot-
ingeducation aboutwhat'sgoingon
so that if someone's noticing you're
wearing a blue shirt, hopefully
you'll be able to share something
about how Israel is not this war-
monger evil country, but a country

that is trying to protect itself the
only way it knows how."
Gray said that while the SAFE
demonstration was not the only
reason they chose Wednesday for
the Blue Out, it was definitely part
of the motivation.
"I think partly we want to react
soon because it broke outcduring the
break," she said. "We have to learn
together to educate ourselves."
BenKaminsky,chairofIsraelIDEA,
and Rachel Goldstein, chair of the
American Movement for Israel said,
however, that the Blue Out was not
intentionally scheduled for the same
day as the SAFE demonstration.

"We do not want to react against
the feelings of other student orga-
nizations, but rather unite the pro-
Israel community," Goldstein said
in an e-mail interview. "Everybody
has a different perspective on the
situation in Gaza, but we can join
together on the idea that Israel has a
right to defend itself in some way."
LSA freshman Jennie Fine, who
recently lived in Israel for a year,
tookpartintheBlueOutafterreceiv-
ing an e-mail from AMI, in order to
show her support for Israel.
"The West doesn't understand
what's going on in the Middle East.
They have no idea," Fine said. "It's a

different world over there."
LSAsophomore CraigFoldes said
he wore blue yesterday as a way to
advocate for Israel.
"Israel gets a bad reputation, but
it needs to do whatever it can to
ensure its survival," Foldes said.
Several members of Israel IDEA,
including Kaminsky, showed up at
the demonstration. Kaminsky said
he wasn't pleased with the behav-
ior of some of the protesters.
"You have people waving
Hamas flags. Hamas is a terrorist
organization. It's absolutely outra-
geous that these things can go on,"
Kaminsky said.

Despite the presence of opposi-
tion groups, LSA junior Kamblya
Youseff who was at the event said
she was happy with how the dem-
onstration went.
"I just think it was amazing. It
was very impressive and it showed
a lot about what kind of support this
cause can garner," she said.
Youseff added that the demon-
strators' willingness to brave the
cold is indicative of their support
for the cause.
"If that in itself doesn't tell peo-
ple that something's going wrong in
the world, then I don't know what
will," she said

the michigan daily
r
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms WE B
avail on central or north campus. HOUSES
741-9300 www.annarborapartmenls.net rental hou
AVAILABLE MAY 1 bedroom. 428
S. Division. $875 negotiable. Call C
734-996-1991 for viewing. Great 5
availabl
$32'
BACK 2 SCHOOL Open House this 1335
Thurs. 3-7pm at 4 Eleven Lofts. 400 E. w
Washington (@ Division) Walk-
Through our full scale model and don't
forget to ask about FREE PARKING MAY
www.4ElevenLofts.com $500 OF
Up to
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. un
Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the
most detailed listings in town! RENT
ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE
HOUSES OR APARTMENTS AND
WE'LL KNOCK $500 OFF THE
FIRST MONTH'S RENT WHEN
YOU MENTION THIS AD. Things 4
are moving quickly so call 663-41011
now to schedule a personal showing!
Houses and Large Apartments:
515 Catherine - 6 BR / 2 Studies / 2 _
BA / $3495 6-
203 N. Ingalls - 3 BR / 3 BA / $2595
516 S. Fourth Ave. - 5 BR / all utils. W
incl. / $2525
809 Lawrence #1 - 4 BR / 2.5 BA / 2 blo
$2245
1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5 7
BA / $3295
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR /
$2270
912 E. Ann St. - 4 BR / RENTED
1349 Geddes - 5 BR / RENTED
811 Catherine -6 BR / RENTED
535 S. Fifth Ave. -4 BR / RENTED P
1331 Geddes - 6 BR / RENTED
934 Greenwood 62 - 4 BR / RENTED
408 E. Jefferson #1 -6 BR / RENTED
511 Lawrence -6 BR / RENTED Call to
517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED
1031 Michigan -4 BR / RENTED
206 N. Thayer-4 BR / RENTED 5
1342 N. University Ct. - 3 BR /
RENTED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR / 7
RENTED
13
132
Wilson\Vhite
We Have Moved! 132
*Fu
Yes, we finall y
moved onto
canpus; you can
now find us next
to Pizza House
at:
Wilson White
Management 19,
Campus Office Stuc
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich Sprir
48104
www.
1'

UY CAMPUS RENTAL
want to sell your student
tse (248) 626-0614.
RAWFORD HOUSE
bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
e at 1115 Willard. Free prkg.
299/mo. Campus Realty
South U. (734) 665-8825
ww.campusrealty.com
'LEASES AVAILABLE
F FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$500 on select 2 bedrooms
Ends 1-16-09
iversity towers-mi.com
734-761-2680
31 Catherine
Kerrytown
3 person house
ith 2 kitchens.
cks from State St,
34-668-1100
NOW LEASING
rime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
day to see your new Home!

LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
'ehtseng@comcast.net
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm.
700+ sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave.
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
CAMPUS 2 BED, 2 BATH:
Exceptionally large apts., super loca-
tion: 51 5 Walnut St. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
ncl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard (Furnished) $1890
915 Oakland (Grand Victorian Home)
$2295
1015 Packard (Near State and Packard)
$1355
205 N. Division (Cathedral Ceilings)
$1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard (Newly Remodeled)
$2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division (Historic Home) $3125
916 Sybil (Brand New House) $3295
1021 E. University (Across From Sgt.
Peppers) $2495

AVA
Beautiful1
floors, bay,
blocks toc
KERRYTON
furnished, lg
porch &z
www.an
HISTORICA
from campus
Sept 1, 200
cluded. Uniqi
649-5549 any
FALL 2009.
bdrm. apts.I
incl. on site p
umcampusho
CAMP
AVAIL

ILABLE FALL.
1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
window, new kitchen. 2
campus. 734-944-2405.
WN 4 BDRM house- fully
modern kitchen, covered
much more. 741-9300.
narborapartments.net
AL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
s. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
9. 3 'Parking spaces in-
ue, convenient. Call (734)
time.
PEPPERS Properties. 3
East U. furn. heat/water
rkg. 810-231-0229.
using.com
US PROPERTIES
LABLE MAY 2009

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas.
Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meas avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626-6304.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! S.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www cashtospend cam
Chl I Care
PART-TIME ITALIAN tutor needed
for 7-year-old child. E-mail
mamarc@comcast.net
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15
yr. old son needed, 10 min. from cam-
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev-
eral meals/wk., grocery shopping. Own
reliable transoortation.Call 761-8489.

tit s I C teS&fravel
1000
SPRING BREAK PCB, FL: Condos
next to clubs! $215/pers. 317-407-3636.
SPRING BREAK09 TRAVEL FREE
Hottest Destinations, Hottest Parties
LOW LOW Prices!!I$efore its too late!!
BOOKRNOW!! 1-100-426-7710
www.sunsplashtours.com
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA
Beachfront hotel with pool. Great
Rooms, Great Rates! Within walking
distance to area attractions including
Spinnaker & Club LaVela. Stay 6
nights, 7th night FREE! Mention code
'48104 for discount. www.lollye.com

Efficiencies: 1307 S. State $2595
15 Lawrence-1 LEFT
344 S. Division 6 Bedrooms
1 Bedrooms:
26 S. STATE-1 LEFT 401 E. Madison (Brand New!) $3995
520 Packard 1014 Vaughn (Plenty of Parking)
515 E. Lawrence $3695
326 E. Madison 1814 Geddes (Close to Diag) $3795
511 E. Hoover
320 S. UNIVERSITY 8 Bedrooms
2 Bedrooms:

909 Church
0 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
000 Oakland-I LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
0 S. University-1 LEFT
illy Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
Great Locations
dio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
ng & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
nlarbOraprtmelnt..net
Or ViSit US at
700 Geddes AVe.

325 E. Jefferson (Victorian Mansion)
$4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms
apartments available too! Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hill and
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003.
NEED TO BE onN. Campus?:
Check out our Walnut St. and Geddes
Ave. locations! 1,2, & 3 bdrms near
CC Little bus stop.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location:1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com

3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
*** 2 BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
MAY - MAY 2 BEDROOM:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
Iser v iCes
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
hel wanted
090
MBARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
TUTOR NEEDED FOR 5th grader
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday
evenings 5-6:30 p.m. @ $20/hr. Quali-
fied candidates MUST have proven
teaching/tutoring experience. Sessions
to be conducted at Ann Arbor resi-
dence. For consideration email
sdodson@thdg.com. No attachments
please.

WOMEN'S CHAMBER CHORUS
seeking new members, all ages. Mon,
10-11:30 am. call 734-761-5471.

For Friday, Jan. 16, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This continues to be a time of hard
work. Just accept this, because your
rewards will follow in 2010-11.
Sometimes we play; sometimes we
work.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Basically, you're trying to figure out
what you want to be when you grow up
- no matter how old you are. Some will
have increased responsibilities with chil-
dren.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
Continue to work to establish a solid
snchor for yourself in the world. You
need to create a safe home, a refuge for
yourself.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
You're still in a state of flux with job'
changes and residential moves. This isn't
easy, because you're a nester not a
nomad!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
At this stage in your life, you're think-
ing about how you earn money, but in
the bigger picture, you're tryingto figure
out what really matters in life.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
For the past few years, you've been
setting out in an entirely new direction.
This is the beginning of a process of
reinventing yourself in the next few
years.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You're still in a time of transition
where you have to let go of people,
places and possessions. Don't think of
this as a time of loss - think of it as
newfound freedom.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
It's a challenge trying to keep your
own independence and your integrity,
and at the same time work with groups
and "fit in" with others. This is what
you're learning to do now.
SAGITTARlIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
At this stage in your life, you see very
clearly what is working and what is not.
For many of you, it's a time of harvest or
a culmination of some sort.
Congratulations.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
This is a time of preparation, where
you are studying and getting ready for a
career peak in a few years. Learn as
much as you can.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
The support from partners and others
could be withdrawn now, which simply
makes you rely on yourself. This is the
lesson you're learning at this point in
your life.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Partnerships are a challenge now. You
have to undergo readjustments; and with
partnerships that have outlived their use-
fulness - they're history.
YOU BORN TODAY You're digni-
fied and creative, but you're also a ball
of energy! One part of you likes a struc-
tured system with lists and a regular
schedule, but another part of you is com-
pletely spontaneous. You value learning,
and you're open to socializing with all
walks of life. People love your enthusi-
asm. This year you're beginning a new
cycle. Open any door.
Birthdate of: Kate Moss, supermodel;
Ethel Merman, singer/actress; Sade,
singer.

A,


8A - Thursday, January 15, 2009
MITERA:

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 6

0, sPennrl-half ctr s sslPc

Captain returns O' "lue LkL4L1 k)
to ice for first time doom Blue at Illinois

ki

0

since Oct. injury

From page 5A
Friday when he returned to the ice
- exactly two months after he had
his ACL surgery and one month
before doctors expected.
He said he was so excited about
getting back on the ice that he
could hardly sleep last Thursday
night.
Mitera is currently limited to
skating about 20 minutes three
times a week. In his three skating
sessions since last week, he has
worked on building endurance,
skating backwards and pivoting.
"I have a long way to go with
the skating, the stamina," he said.
"There's nothing you can simulate
off the ice to keep your body in that
kind of shape.
"But it's definitely a mental
booster to get back on the ice, to
see the past two months of surgery
and work actually starting to come
together where you're able to skate
again."
Mitera thinks it will take three
to four weeks for him to get his
legs and lungs in shape, and at that
time, he will evaluate where he
stands with coaches, trainers and
his family. With Kampfer's return,
the Wolverines now have a great
deal of depth at defense, with seven
blueliners battling for six spots on
the bench.
For Berenson, deciding whether
to put Mitera back into the lineup
will undoubtedly be a tough deci-
sion.
"It might go a long way for the
team, seeing me back on the ice,"
Mitera said. "But I don't know if
that would be the right thing to
do at the time, to try to come back
too early and to take that position
away from another defenseman
who could be dressing and playing

at 100 percent."
A NEW CAPTAIN, A NEW COACH
Soon after the injury, alternate
captain Summers began wearing
the 'C' and Mitera began roaming
the bleachers during games.
Summers acted as the on-ice
captain, leading pregame stretches
and being a vocal leader.
"The team needs some tangible
leader day-to-day to be out there,"
Mitera said. "Chris has done a
great job doingthat."
And off the ice, Summers has
respected Mitera's captaincy and
advice. Mitera attends team meet-
ings and is often found in the
locker room before and during
games. Thanks to his view from
the stands, he can analyze play like
an assistant coach.
"I usually come in between
every period if I see something
that needs to be said," he said. "If
everything's going smoothly, I like
to let them take care of themselves
in the locker room. But if it looks
like guys are getting frustrated out
there or things aren't going well
or we're down a little bit, I'll go in
there and get them re-focused."
THE UNCERTAIN FUTURE
There's a reason why Mitera
stayed for his senior season when
so many expected him to go pro:
He wanted be a Wolverine for four
years.
And most of all right now, he
wants to end his collegiate career
in maize and blue. -
"Personally, I think I should be
able to play (by the end of the sea-
son)," Mitera said. "I need to make
sure everything heals properly. I
don't want to take any risks at this
point, but that's my goal, to get
back for one more game at Yost."

ByJASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
CHAMPAIGN - The Michigan
men's basketball team went to the
locker room nursing a one-point
lead over Illinois.
But it knew from experience that
the game MICHIGAN 51
was far ILLINOIS 66
from over.
When the two teams squared off
on Jan. 4 in Ann Arbor, the Wolver-
ines overcame a one-point halftime
deficit to defeat the Fighting Illini
74-64.
Lastnight,thetableswereturned
when Illinois dominated Michigan
down the stretch in a 66-51 win.
"Almost an exact game as up
there, but reversed," Illinois coach
Bruce Weber said.
The difference between the
games was one man: Illinois center
Mike Tisdale.
At halftime, Illini guard Demetri
McCamey told Tisdale he had bet-
ter be ready to shoot the ball in the
paint.
The big man responded by scor-
ing the Illini's first nine points of
the second half. The 7-foot-1 Tis-
dale dominated a small Michigan
lineup, which featured 6-foot-8
junior forward DeShawn Sims
and 6-foot-5 sophomore forward
Manny Harris as its tallest players
on the floor for most of the night.
"He's hard for us (to handle),"
Michigan coach John Beilein said.
"We're playing small. We're not
very big in the center and he's tough
to stop."
Tisdale was held in check in the
opening half but exploded for 18 of
his game-high 24 points after the
break.
The big man even made a
3-pointer - his first attempt of the
season - with less than five min-
utes remainingthat killed any hope
of a Wolverine comeback. Beilein

4

CLIF REEDER/Daily 0

Sophomore Manny Harris was 7-of-13 for 20 points in Michigan's loss last night.

said Tisdale "pulled a Pittsnogle"
by nailing the deep ball, comparing
the center to the sharp-shooting
former West Virginia star Kevin
Pittsnogle.


While the Illini shot an effective
52.4 percent from the field in the
second half, Michigan couldn'tbuy
abasket. Despite havingthe confer-
ence's second-best scoring offense,
the Wolverines shot a season-low
32.2 field-goal percentage on the
night and were held to a season-low
51 points.
Michigan (3-2 Big Ten, 13-4
overall) has often relied on 3-point-
ers this season as a primary source
of scoring, but that wasn't the case
last night. The Wolverines shot a
poor 26.9 percent from behind the
arc. Illinois defended Michigan
high on the perimeter, which made
it difficult for the Wolverines to run
their offense. And when Michigan
did get open looks late in the game,
it failed to convert.
"We just weren't able to knock
down the shots we're usually ablecto
knock down," Harris said. "Games
like that are going to happen, but
you just got to fight through and do

the things that are going to make us
win the game."
In the first half, the Wolverines
were a different team. Michigan
and Illinois (3-1, 13-4) traded blows
the opening 20 minutes, resulting
in 11 lead changes.
The Wolverines scored by
spreading the ball around early and
four players tied for a team-leading
five points at the half, but Harris
was the only player to reach double
figures. He finished with 20 points.
Michigan held close for the first
10 minutes of the second half but
fell behind for good after a five-
minute scoreless stretch midway
through the stanza.
"They played harder than us for
the whole 40 minutes and that's
how they got the win," Harris said.
And after completing their
home-and-home series, the Illini
and Wolverines have both proven
that aone-point lead on the road is
never safe.

6

40


Martin Luther King Jr. Day Event
Monday, January 19, 2009

I 1

6

2:30 P.M.

The Jackie Robinson Story
The Jackie Robinson Story is a
1950 biographical film starring
baseball legend Jackie Robinson
as himself. Robinson became
the first African American Major
League Baseball player of the
modern era in 1947.

Anthony Pratkanis
Professor of Psychology
Univeristy of California, Santa Cruz
"Mr. Branch Rickey, Mr. Jackie
Robinson, and the Tntergration of
Baseball: Nine Principles of Successful
Affirmative Action."

6


A


'the b

-side

weekend
essentials
Jan 15. to Jan.18
CONCERT
It's a weekend of non-
stop entertainment at
the Blind Pig. On Friday
night, feel-good indie
popsters Mason Proper
will be playing with
the Javelins and The
Mighty Narwhale, And
on Saturday night, pre-
pare to be pummeled
by Aleph-1's spaced-
out brand of proggy
electronica as they
play with Vox Maui.
Tickets for each show
are $7 ($10 if you're
under 21). Doors open
Friday at 9 p.m. and
Saturday at 9:30 p.m.

TV
Last May, Flight of the-
Conchords delighted
Ann Arborites with a
concert at the Michi-
gan Theatre. Though
there's no sign the duo
is planning a return to
Ann Arbor anytime
soon, you can get your
fix of Bret and Jermaine
on the tube in the
meantime. The second
season of "Flight of the
Conchords" the TV
show begins this Sun-
day at 10 p.m. on HBO.

FILM
"Slumdog Millionaire"
generated a lot of
buzz, and with good
reason.'This whimsi-
cal romance about a
boy from Mumbai is
a sure-fire Oscar con-
tender. This is the last
weekend the film plays
at the State Theatre,
so if you haven't seen
it yet ... well, what
are you waiting for?

Herb David has hung out with some of the most influential musicians of the 20th century, including Bob Dylan, Iggy Pop and Frank Zappa.

"You know who Thurston Moore is, from Sonic
Youth?" Charlie Lorenzi, the manager for Herb David
Guitar Studio asks. It's almost a rhetorical question.
Thurston Moore, one of Rolling Stone Magazine's
"Greatest Guitarists of All Time" and founder of Sonic
Youth, the groundbreaking noise-rock band of the '90s?
"Well, he bought a Ron Asheton signature guitar
from us yesterday," Lorenzi says, as if it was an everyday
occurrence, as phenomenal as a kid buying a Snickers
bar. "And Jack White, from the White Stripes, he buys
stuff here when he comes to town," Lorenzi adds.
Herb David himself, white-haired and garbed in a
turtleneck, is sitting in an office chair nearby, engaged
in the conversation. He nods in agreement. "People of
the '60s who hung out here were Bob Dylan and Joni
Mitchell, Sun Ra, Phil Ochs," he says, listing off names
as if these legendary music icons were old friends he
bummed around with once upon a time. Which is actu-
ally pretty much what happened.
"Bob Dylan played here once, and we all thought
that he wrote good songs but he can't play worth a darn
and he smelled bad," David admits, chuckling. "He was
trying to be like Woody Guthrie, a wanderer," he says,
suggesting that Dylan's smell was the result of his itin-
erant habits and *inability to get a good shower once in
a while.
Lorenzi and David are talking in the unseen recesses
of Herb David Guitar Studio, in a loft with angled wood-
en ceilings and walls lined with shelves piled high with

Herb David played
a huge role in the,
1960s explosion of
rock'n'roll in Ann
Arbor. He has been
a mainstay ever
since. <-
By Whitney Pow
Senior Arts Editor

lumber for guitar-making. It's dusty in here, but in a way
that suggests loving use - the room is filled with hand-
crafted lutes, broken mandolins and works-in-progress
still hanging around the workbench.
David's guitar studio has been in Ann Arbor since
the 1960s, a vital place and time for the cultural and
musical revolution of that seminal decade. David him-
self was a central figure in the burgeoning music scene.
"Music was our life, our literature, our politics - free
from conformity," he said. "(It was) a big deal in the'60s.
That's the way we felt. Music was going to change the
whole world." People came to David's shop not only for
the Ann Arbor scene, but to hang out with David, a local
celebrity himself.
"Newsweek did an article about me, and I was on the
front page of a lot of newspapers across the country and
other magazines," he said. He says he has been written
about in The Washington Post, and he's made appear-
ances on popular, TV shows including "The Today
Show." After all that press, word quickly got around
about David and his workshop - the then-central hub
of the music revolution that once met in an Ann Arbor
basement.
The city hosted a completely different scene back
then. Jimi Hendrix played at the Fifth Dimension, a
now-defunct club that used to be at Huron and Main
Street. The Grateful Dead put on shows at Crisler Arena.
Frank Zappa played at Hill Auditorium. And the Can-
See HERB DAVID, Page 4B

READING
Author Michael Shil-
ling, writer, UM lecturer
and ex-drummer of The
Long Winters is read-
ing from his new book,
"Rock Bottom" at Sha-
man Drum today. The
novel tells the story of
a rock band called The
Blood Orphans that is
bothered by random
problems like nagging
Buddhist preachers and
eczema. The reading
is at 7 p.m. and will be
followed with a signing.

0


2B - Thursday, January 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

2B - Thursday, January 15, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *


CALENDAR
The Daily Arts guide to
upcoming events in Ann Arbor
and the surrounding area.
Today 1.15.09
Penny W. Stamps Distin-
guished Series: Interruptions
for Everyday Life, Nick Tobier
8 p.m.
At the Michigan Theater
Free
Jazz Jams
8:30 p.m. C
At Pierpont Commons, Lenoardos Room
Free
Poetry Reading: Patrick Lane
and Lorna Crozier
5 p.m.
At Rackham
Free
Tomorrow 1.16.08
Tord Gustavsen Trio
8 p.m,
At the Mendelssohn Theatre
$25
Yellowroom Gang
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$15
Saturday 1.16.08
Collage Concert by the School
of Music, Theatre and Dance
8 P.M.
At Hill Auditorium
$25
Vance Gilbert
8 p.m.
At the Ark
$15
Sunday 1.17.08
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Are Dead
8 p.m. (Friday), 3 pm. and 8 p.m (Satur-
day), 2 p.m. (Sunday)
At the Performance Network
$22-41 and $10 student discount
Please send all press releases
and event information to
arts@michigandaily.com.

High five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five
answers to a curious question.
Terri Sarris
Seniorlecturer, Department oftScreen Arts & Cultures
What are the most unnecessary film
remakes ever made?
Spartacus: A 2004 TV remake starred the actor Goran Visnjic from "E.R." I
know it's not fair to criticize a filmI haven't seen but Ijust didn't have the heart
to watch a remake of "Spartacus" (Sam Raimi is reportedy making a 13-epi-
sode TV series based on Spartacus to air on Starz.) Youch, don't mess with
"Spartacus"!
The Defiant Ones: Stanley Kramer's 1958 film starring Tony Curtis and
Sidney Portier, remade in 1986 into a TV movie starring Robert Urich and
Carl Weathers.
City of Angels: Wim Wenders' 1987 film "Wings of Desire" was remade as
"City of Angels." Nicholas Cage is not Bruno Ganz and Brad Siberling is not
Wim Wenders.
Breathless: Jean Luc Goddard's 1960 film remade in 1983. Why?
Psycho: Hitchcock's 1960 film remade in 1998 by Gus Van Sant. Shot for shot?
And the point is?
TRAILER REVIEW
MONSTERS VS. ALIENS
DREAMWORKS t
The trailer for "Monsters vs. Aliens" is
colorful, funny and promises a lot of fun. It
introduces the audience to ateam of lovable
monsters (voiced by such talents as Seth
Rogen and Reese Witherspoon) as they take
on an alien bent on destroying the Earth.
Despite the apocalyptic implications, the
trailer is a guaranteed smile-turner.
SHERIJANKELOVITZ

0
6

ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK

0

FYKU
While "Pyro" is much calmer than
most other games featuring fireballs, it's
certainly no less amusing. You're faced
with 40 levels, each of which tests your
abilityto light a certain number of torches
by launching fireballs on different trajec-
tories through the air. "Pyro" is easy to
pick up, difficult to master and always fun
to play.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/9q26ra

HOTCORN
Love popping popcornbut can't stand
the smell? If so, "Hotcorn" is the game
for you. Using your mouse and a smil-.
ing little sun, it's up to you to pop your
quota of kernels before time runs out.
With obstacles to avoid and power-ups
to acquire, this deceptively simple game
can require some serious strategy.
Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/6ba9f7

0


a

I

a

4

I


4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 15, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January15, 2009 - 3B

CONCERT PREVIEW
e power of imagination
Boundary-shattering R&B
artist Janelle Monae seeks

She dissed a girl
and she liked it

to spark a new revolution
with students on MLK day
By DAVID RIVA
DailyArts Writer
When Janelle Monae blazes onto the stage
at the Michigan Theater for the 2009 MLK
Symposium Student Concert
on Friday, the audience won't Janelle
know what hit them. "Expect Mod
to see lots of elephants mak-
ing out, baby zebras snoring At the
and spirits in the crowd," the Michigan
23-year-old Grammy nominee Theater
explained in a recent phone 8 p.m. Friday
interview with the Daily.
"They also will see fire. Lots $15
of fire."
Fiery passion and relentless enthusiasm
drive Monae to create music that thrives on
creativity and produce a genre-defying sound
with a highly conceptualized subject matter.
Her music translates flawlessly onto the stage,.
where it acts as a vehicle for Monae's impulsive
and untamed dance moves. Whether it's being
channeled through headphones or boogied to on
stage, one thing is undeniable: Janelle Monie's
music makes a lasting impression.
Her performance will mark the only concert
of the MLK Symposium, a four-day observance
of the Monday holiday that includes lectures,
speeches and films.
Monie's progressive mindset parallels the
philosophy of Martin Luther King, Jr., making
her an ideal fit for the gig. Just as Dr. King used
his words to change the future of race relations,
Monae plans to do the same with her music.
"I believe that it's important that art help
redefine stereotypes and help redefine what
it means for people like myself, who look like
me, to create art ... it's important to erase those
boundaries and those lines and those divisive
ways that are set up to conquer and divide,"
Monae said.
Social justice might be an underlying theme
in Janelle Monie's music, but her imagina-
tion is what truly sets her apart. "Imagination
Inspires Nations" is a pseudo-campaign slogan
in Monie's movement to change lives through
music.
"I strongly believe in my imagination and I

COURTESY OF WONDALAND ARTS SOCIETY
Monse is nominated for the "Best Urban/Alternative Performance" 2009 Grammy award.

believe itis verypowerful. Ibelieve in art, which
is a cousin and a mother to your imagination.
With that being said, I just believe that once
you think of something and you truly believe in
it, you can have the power to absolutely inspire
this entire nation to believe in their imagination
and get people all across the world to believe in
wonder and magic," Monae explained.
Promotion of the ideas of wonder and magic
is happening on a daily basis at the Atlanta-
based Wondaland Arts Society. Essentially,
W.A.S. is a record label and a group of forward-
thinking individuals who share Monae's vision

for the future.
"I don't let a lot of people in, but they come
with great energy, good tidings and food for
thought," she said.
In August, W.A.S. released Monie's Metrop-
olis: The Chase Suite, which received a positive
reception from critics and fans alike.
The disc was not intended tobe a traditional
album, but the first installment of a suite, with
a full cast of characters and a continuous sto-
ryline.
"I think it's very important to release a lot of
See MONAE, Page 4B

ometimes I pity the non-
gossip media. While most
"respectable" entertainment
journalists
earn their
weekly pay
reporting on
such trivial
matters as
"who won
the Golden
Globes," I l AJRK
have the priv- SCHULTZ
ilege - nay,
the honor - of dealing with bur-
geoning celebrity feuds, romanc-
es, bromances and, of course, the
appearance of Heath Ledger's
ghost to collect his awards statues.
Too soon?
But that's not to-say the awards
ceremony - itself a microcosm
of Hollywood's vanity, pettiness
and downright bitchiness - didn't
provide its share of buzz, courtesy
of some of our favorite stars and
starlets. To the eyes of red-carpet
paparazzi, focused only on panty
flashes and weight gains, Brange-
lina's awkward snub of Ryan
Seacrest might have seemed cruel.
But perhaps the pair was too dis-
tracted by Miley Cyrus's own pair
to give a decent interview. After
all, those things - which, assisted
by a push-up bra, stuck out like
beach balls floating in a bathtub -
were the real Golden Globes. On
the awards stage, Zac Efron con-
tinues to be living proof that, in
Hollywood, looks can compensate,
for poor acting, a poor personal-
ity and even poor reading skills.
Efron stumbled over his cue cards
like a freshman stumbling home
from Skeeps. Yet he still earns the
admiration and flirtation of ilber-
gorgeous "Transformers" star
Megan Fox, who once drunkenly
declared her love for Zac: "I'm
obsessed with him.... It's like Janet
and Michael Jackson, we are the
same person." That last phrase is
open to interpretation, but if they
ever make a film of Nabokov's
incest tale "Ada, or Ardor," Fox is
definitely first in line to play Ada
Veen.
Speaking of pretty boys, the
surprise of the night was a big Best
Actor in a Musical or Comedy win
for - pause for a moment - Colin
Farrell. I figuredFarrellwaseither
holed-up in a Dublin hostel liv-
ing on whiskey, peanuts and three
redheaded lasses, or on top of Mt.
Kilimanjaro, on acid, staring into
the sun. But not only did he actu-
ally attend the ceremony, he didn't
even appear (that) drunk.
We've talked about quite a few
beautiful people, so let's switch
gears for a moment and discuss
Amy Winehouse. It's all over for
Winehouse and her equally-besot-
tedbeauBlakeFielder-Civil;Field-
er-Civil filed for divorce three days
ago on the grounds of"Amy's adul-
tery." Not surprising, considering
photos of Amy canoodling and
gallivanting (or any other baroque
words for "hooking up" that come
to mind) around St. Lucia with
tall, dark and handsome Joshua
Bowman are all over the interweb.

Winehouse justified her infidelity,
saying, probably through the end
of a crack pipe, that "Blake was
rubbish in bed," and that "Every
single time I slept with him it was
like I was dead." Sheesh. I'm not
sure who I pity more: The next
young actor who has to stick it in
(the needle, that is) Winehouse,
or the next tenderfoot model who
sleeps with Madonna to further
his own career.
While we're on the topic of self-
centered singers with self-esteem
issues, let me introduce my new
favorite celebrity feud: Katy Perry
and Lily Allen. I'll admit this tiff
earns some Daily Double points
because both singers happen to
be lovely brunettes, even if only
one of them is actually talented.
(Hint: She's never written a song
about lesbianism that caused real
lesbians to start anonymous hate
blogs.) But what really sticks out
about this cyber-quarrel is that
it's mostly carried out through
interviews, Facebook and their
websites (I'm not even sure if the
two have met in person). It bears
a striking resemblance to the cat-
fights between those two popular
girls in your ninth grade class. You
know, the ones everyone assumed
A night of vanity
and bitchiness.
were best friends because they
were both blonde cheerleaders
and in the same clique, when, in
reality, they hated each other.
First, little Katy calls little
Lily fat. Then little Lily cries to
her mum (she's British): "Katy's
being mean!" Lily's mum (who
may have worked for the British
Secret Service) replies "Revenge
is a dish best served cold." Taking
that advice, a week or so later Lily
posts onher ownFacebook:"Ihave
Katy's (phone) number ... I'm just
waiting for her to open her mouth
one more time and then it hits
Facebook." Finally, in the biggest
girl-girl diss since Pink snubbed
Rihanna from her slumber party,
Lily joins several anti-Katy Perry
Facebook groups, including "I
Hate Katy Perry and her dumbass
song 'I Kissed A Girl."' Katy, after
seeing Lily's group membership,
scrawls a bawling Facebook note:
"Why doesn't anyone respect me?
Maybe if I sleep with some ran-
dom guy, he'll respect me." Then
she runs home, throws a pillow
over her head, and listens to her
song "Ur So Gay" on repeat.
I challenge you to reread the
preceding paragraph and pick out
which parts were real and which
I made up. I think you'll find it
nearly impossible. Such is the
nature of gossip.
Schultz just made an anti-Zac
Efron facebook group. Ask to
join at markthos@umich.edu

FILM & MUSIC NOTEBOOK
From Elton John to Elliott Smith, the
music that best fit Hollywood scenes

By DAVID RIVA
Daily Arts Writer
Music plays a vital role in most
films. When images and dialogue
aren't enough, music can give a
movie the added emotion it needs to
become a complete cinematic expe-
rience. But when it comes to recog-
nizing achievements in music, the
Academy Awards categories of Best
Original Song and Best Original
Score hardly cover all the bases. So
in the spirit of the awards season,
I've created a new lifetime achieve-
ment category: "Best Use of a Popu-
lar Song in a Film Ever." Here are
the nominees:
"Needle in the Hay" - Elliott
Smith ("The Royal Tenen-
baums")
Wes Anderson has built a repu-
tation on his meticulous direction.
And poignant music, unsurpris-
ingly, has consistently played a
major role inthe success ofhis cult
classics. "Needle in the Hay" is a
striking selection as background
music for Richie Tenenbaum's
attempted suicide. Smith's frail
vocals and stripped-down acous-
tic guitar give the scene a raw and
intimate feel, enhanced by lyr-
ics about heroin addiction - an
appropriate metaphor for Richie's
addiction to his sister.
"Tiny Dancer" - Elton John
("Almost Famous")
In "Almost Famous," fictional
band Stillwater is on the verge of
making it big, but halfway through
a cross-country tour it is on the
threshold of breaking up. Until,
that is, "Tiny Dancer" enchants
the bus into a triumphant sing-

along and a renewed sense of cohe-
sion grips the band. And when
teenage journalist William Miller
says "I have to go home" to groupie
Penny Lane, who responds "You
are home," the moment basks in
the sunny rays of Sir Elton's unfor-
gettable piano riff.
"Where Is My Mind" - Pixies
("Fight Club")
The Pixies provide a bittersweet
anthem for the apocalypse as the
"Fight Club" 's narrator and Marla
Singer revel in a fireworks show of
crumbling buildings. With lyrics
like "With your feet in the air and
your head on the ground / try this
trick and spin it, yeah / Your head
will collapse / But there's nothing
in it," the song is a perfect reflection
of the scene's nihilistic sentiment.
"Twist and Shout" - The Beat-
les ("Ferris Bueller's Day Off")
Ferris Bueller is the coolest
kid eyer. At least for a day. His 24
hours of blissful shenanigans are
what every teenager. dreams of
doing instead of going to school.
The day of ultimate hooky comes
to a high point when Ferris hops
on a float during the middle of a
parade and lip-synchs The Beat-
les' classic cover. Ferris is cooler
than John Lennon. At least for
three minutes.
"If You Want to Sing Out, Sing
Out" - Cat Stevens ("Harold
and Maude")
Cat Stevens's folk ditties can
be spotted in critical moments all
over this cult classic. These accom-
panied scenes stand in cheery
contrast to the main characters'
affinity for death and disorder.

When Maude, Harold's elder by 59
years, decides her time on Earth
has come to an end, Harold has
this optimistic tune to remind him
of the only person he ever loved.
"I Found a Reason" - Cat Power
("V for Vendetta")
This loose take on the Velvet
Underground's "Run, Run, Run" is
a sparse but breathtaking display
of timid piano paired with fragile
vocals. Evey finds the song on a
jukebox loaded with other music
blacklisted by Britain's totalitar-
ian regime. The moment is a turn-
ing point for her character, who
becomes torn between V's revolu-
tionary cause and simple adher-
ence to the repressive government
"Playground Love" - Air ("The
Virgin Suicides")
These French electronica pio-
neers create an ominous atmo-
sphere, generating a feeling of

instability throughout this film
about six upper-class girls plan-
ning to end their lives. Air's lush
synth-pop reflects the girls'
innocence and naivety, but the
painfully slow tempo and bone-
chilling vocals underlie the horri-
fying reality of the decisions they
ultimately make.
"Can't Take My Eyes Off of
You'" - Frankie Valli & The
Four Seasons ("10 Things I Hate
About You")
Yes, "10 Things I Hate About
You" is a chick-flick. No, this
scene could never happen in real
life (taking over the school loud
speaker system and orchestrat-
ing an entire marching band to
the tune of a popular song). But
when Patrick Verona runs across
those bleachers, serenading Kat
Stratford with a classic tune about
uncontrollable love, it's tough not
to crack a smile.

Free Blue Books
Need blue books for exams?
Stop at the
Alumni Center.
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

The Daily is looking for students
interested in Web development and
Web design to join its online staff.
E-mail Gary Graca at
graca@michigandaily.com for
more information.

READER
KNOWS BEST.
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest


t e. b-si

4B - Thursday, January 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, January 15, 2009The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

THE VAULT I'LODE RUNNER' (1983) NES
A low-res high point of gaming

By JAMIE BLOCK bars-st
SeniorArtsEditor spectru
and gra

Every so often a game comes
along that's so wonderfully simple,
intuitive and entertaining that it
sparks a franchise. Mario did it,
Zelda did it and, though not as
many people may recognize its
name, "Lode Runner" did it.
"Lode Runner" is the tale of agold
hunter who made a lot of enemies in
his days on the prowl. At least that's
one possible story, as the game
offers no explanation or plot of any
kind. In "Lode Runner," the player
controls a man in what appear to be
8-bit overalls, guiding him through
levels to collect gold while avoiding
evil men in white spacesuits. Once a
player collects all the gold, he must
navigate his way to a ladder that
appears at the top of the level and
make his escape.
The mysterious man does not
come unarmed. He carries a drill
and/or blaster and/or magical pow-
ers (it's hard to tell with1983 graph-
ics) which he can use to delete the
floor tile on either side of him, creat-
ing a pit into which his strange pur-
suers blindly fall. The blaster must
also be used to access new areas of
the level. This is game strategy in its
most simple form.
The levels are laid out on an invis-
ible grid and feature brick floors,
indestructible metal floors, ladders
and poles for climbing on monkey

trum
stimula
any con
whichc
gamesf
With
able in
them,
short a
ence d

Cr
8

yle. They come in an amazing with "Lode Runner," it's a refresh-
am of colors, namely orange inglyseamless andintuitiveprocess.
ay. While the tiny color spec- Even with only seven or so parts
doesn't make for a visually to choose from and a small space
;tingexperience,there's never in which to build, there are end-
fusion about what's going on, less possibilities. Building the most
can't be said for most other difficult-but-possible level imagin-
from the early'80s. able, then watching friends suffer
h only 50 levels and no notice- through it, keeps "Lode Runner"
crease in difficulty between entertaining far longer than the sin-
the single-player game is gle-player mode alone allows.
Lnd sweet. Still, the experi- "Lode Runner" is quite primi-
oesn't have to end once all tive, as every game was in 1983. But
it was successful enough to spawn
a series of equally fun, but increas-
ingly complex, sequels. From the
Players can unoriginally titled "Lode Runner
levels of 2" to the slightly overdramatized,
eate o but probably superior, "Lode Run-
ner: The Legend Returns," there has
their own, never been a "Lode Runner" game
that has fallen short. These later
games are harder to find in playable
form nowadays, but well worth the
effort. "The Legend Returns" offers
an equally easy-to-use level editor
els are complete. First of all, with more features and much pret-
ne offers a two-player mode, tier graphics.
lets you compete against a Not just a franchise-starter, the
though not at the same time. original "Lode Runner" is a stand-
ly, and much more impor- out gem from the early days of gam-
"Lode Runner" was one of ing. It's simpler than many arcade
t games to let players design games and doesn'tevenhave anysort
wn levels. of tutorial. But within a few seconds
A editors are extremely hit- of starting the first level, the game
these days, and the pro- becomes familiar and engaging. It's
ing of many games is too a game that transcends the techno-
cated to allow players to logical restrictions of the early '80s
anything of their own. But to still be enjoyable today.

the lev
the gar
which
friend,
Second
tantly,
the firs
their o
Leve
or-miss
gramm
complia
makea

HERB DAVID
From page 1B
terbury House, the recording loca-
tion of Neil Young's newest live
disc, used to be in Nickels Arcade.
It's hard to imagine these legend-
ary names being attached to real
flesh-and-blood twenty-some-
things you could pass while walk-
ing down the street.
David looks through his notes,
trying to place Hendrix's Ann
Arbor on the Ann Arbor we know
today. He reads from ayellow note-
book page that contains graphite
scrawls in his loose, loopy hand-
writing: "The scene of State Street,
Saturday night, April 1964. Never
been more music anywhere or any
time or any place. People on their
way to catch some jams, the streets
crowded."
"There were long-haired punks
in tight black leather pants - and
they had to be. tight - beatniks,
hippies, some in orange robes
hung with beads ringing cymbals
and gongs, chanting mantras: 'Om
padma, padmaom.' There were fol-
kies in penny loafers, bell-bottoms,
chinos, hair cut short, combed
back neatly. Others in suits and
dresses."
This is the same street most
students walk down every day to
get to class, the site of textbook-
buying and burrito-eating, which
seems too far removed from the
1960s Ann Arbor where "music
was accompanied by drugs, speed
and LSD and sex in the streets,"
David said. He quoted John Sin-
clair when he added, "(it's) power
to the people through music"... and
other things, risky or otherwise.
The Herb David Guitar Stu-
dio was more than a hangout for
celebrity musicians. David is an
accomplished instrument maker
and repairman who has done
projects for Jerry Garcia, Eric
Clapton, John Paul Jones and
Carole King, among many others.
His skills are so adept he was able
to completely re-piece a smashed
guitar for Clarence White, the
guitarist for the Byrds.
"He ran over his guitar and he
brought it to me on Monday, and
it was all a box of cornflakes, it
was all shattered up," David said.
"He said 'I've got a gig on Friday
- a recording session in L.A. Can
you put it back together?' " David
ended up re-piecing the guitar in
two days without using any new
wood to fix the structure of the
instrument. "Wednesday I handed
the guitar to him. I fit (the pieces)
together, and you couldn't even tell
ithadbeen shattered. I did it pretty
good:And he recorded with it."
David's instrument-making
ability can be seen all over the
shop in the form of custom-made
instruments with intricate wood-
carvings and etchings. His desk is
piled high with copies of"The Fine
Art of Woodcarving" volumes 1-8
and intricately carved wooden
flutes. His office is decorated with


MONAE
From page 1B
music," she said. "By breaking it
up we thought it'd be very impor-
tant for others to process the story
and not be too overwhelmed,"
Monie continued.
W.A.S. also produced a coincid-
ing short film, rather than a con-
ventional music video, reinforcing
the concept of not confining one-
self to a single form of art.
Presenting imaginative con-
cepts, preaching a positive
message and putting on an ener-
getic live show are all important
for Monae, but it's her undeni-
able vocal talent that brings these
goals to life. Her musical influ-
ences are infinitely far-reaching:
She possesses the soul of James
Brown, the -voice of Judy Gar-
land, the attitude of Mick Jagger,
the style of Outkast, the spunk of
Elvis Presley and the creativity of
Bjfrk. To say that Janelle Monae
is an anomaly when it comes to
music would be a definite under-
statement. Regardless, her aggres-
sive approach to the creation and
presentation of her art is some-
thing that the current musical
landscape seriously needs.

wall hangings containing the first
instrument he made - a mandolin
crafted out of a log he hollowed out
- and a lute with a "Not for Sale -
Made by Herb David" tag woven
between the strings.
He has taught his woodwork-
ing trade to others as well. "Most
of the musicians around town
worked at the Herb David Gui-
tar Studio at one time or another,
teaching or helping in the store,"
David said. One particular person
was a guy named Dan, a guitarist
for a popular R&B band called The
Prime Movers.
"Dan lived ... down the hall from
me - my first studio was on the
second floor of State Street, after
I moved out of that basement,"
David recalls. Dan had a room-
mate named Jim, and, as it turns
out, "the guys were Dan Erlewine,
who was a guitar player in this
band, and Jim Osterberg, who was
the singer. Dan worked for me, Jim
was a nice guy." David describes
Osterberg as just another guy, then
adds, "And Jim Osterberg - that's
Iggy."
"Iggy" meaning Iggy Pop, who
later quit the Prime Movers and
moved to Chicago to cement his

identity as a rebellious music
icon. "Jim became known as Iggy
Pop because he formally started
a band called the Iguanas - the
Iguanas created the Iggy part,
and Pop because he had a friend
called Jim Pop with no eye-
brows," he said. "So Iggy shaved
his eyebrows and became Iggy
Pop." Later the "nice guy" Oster-
berg ended up becoming "scary
and unpredictable" Iggy, who
helped to usher in the American
punk movement.
Ann Arbor was an active place
of change in the '60s, where the
changing mainstream - music
sounds reflected the changing
socialsituations of the'60s, includ-
ing the Civil Rights Movementthe
Stonewall Riots and the Vietnam
War. The '60s were a time when
people realized that the personal
was political, that music was more
than just entertainment; it was a
mentality, a way of life. Musical
innovators like Hendrix and Iggy
Pop were playing "industrial-
strength music - it had to be loud,
fast, mind-shattering," David said.
"Ann Arbor was the political cen-
ter of the country... and they came
to my studio."

a MURtTsYes b WlNDALANDARTSAOt20T07Y.
Janelle Monde's debut EP was released in August 2007-.

"It's all about knowing your art
... throwing your colors on a canvas
and seeing what comes out," she
explained.
When asked about what she
wants her audience to take away
from her art, Monae referred back
to her incendiary metaphor, and
said, "I just want them to feel fire
within their hearts." Specifically
referencing her upcoming perfor-
mance, Monae added, "I want (the
audience) to want to start a revolu-
tion after seeing the show ... hope-

fully they figure out how they can
start that revolution with the great
gift that they were given, in a posi-
tive way."
These stimulating words
should resonate with a crowd
that believes in both King's
teachings and the unexplainable
power of music. On Friday night,
Janelle Monae hopes to burn this
message of unmatched hope and
limitless opportunity into the
hearts of a new generation of
revolutionaries.

FILM NOTEBOOK
The struggle of being independent

By NOAH DEAN STAHL
DailyArts Writer
In the midst of the self-congrat-
ulatory hoopla of Awards Season
- complete with excessive advertis-
ing campaigns and lavish red car-
pet events - I am embarrassed to
say one of the biggest film events of
the year seemed to sneak up on me.
The Sundance Film Festival, which
starts today, has long been consid-
ered an important benchmark in
the world of independent film, but

it's on unsteady ground due to the
bleak financial climate.
Sundance saw its commercial
emergence in 1989 when a fledg-
ing Miramax Films bought Steven
Soderbergh's "Sex, Lies and Vid-
eotape." The picture's subsequent
commercial success re-defined Sun-
dance as a place where small movies
could go in hopes of attracting major
box office returns.
Inrecentyears,quirkyyetendear-
ing movies like "Napoleon Dyna-
mite" and "Garden State" found

their starts at the festival. In 2006,
Fox Searchlight Pictures paid a
record $10.5 million for "Little Miss
Sunshine," a movie that went on to
remarkable commercial and critical
reception. Since then, Hollywood
has all but uprooted itself these last
weeks of January and transplanted
itself in Utah for Sundance.
As long as I've been interested in
film, I've taken Sundance to be the
beacon of artistic individuality and
cultural importance. The notion.
of finding refuge from the cold in a


quaint western movie house like the
famous Egyptian Theater and watch-
ing new films would be my ideal day.
As I come to learn about the work-
ings of the festival, though, it seems
to hinge less on truly independent,
unique cinematicvoices and more on
the same commercialism and mate-
rialism that drives Hollywood.
While hundreds of films play at
Sundance, very few actually make
it to a theater near you. What these
films and filmmakers rely on for
circulation is distributors making
purchases. In years past, many
independent distributors and stu-
dio specialty labels - divisions of
the largerstudios devoted to small-
er movies and niche markets - hit
the Sundance slopes in search of
their underdogbox office gem. The
number of potential buyers, how-
ever, has slimmed drastically.
In the past year, independent
outfit THINKFilmtook astepback
due to financial instability; Warner
Bros. shut down its Warner Inde-
pendent Pictures and Picturehouse
sectors and drastically scaled back
New Line Cinema; Paramount Pic-
tures, too, reduced its Paramount
Vantage division, a distributor
that had been notably successful
despite the increasingly crowded

market
Jan. 3,1
the sale
ror/con
The
with th
tributor
mercial
Ind
fa(
mass at
some of
films sh
Two
films at
by dir
"Sugar,
acclaim
little-to
I do;
nor doI
the mo
princip
other fi
simply
uted. A
abilityc

place for small films; and, on as an unprecedented apprehension
Universal Studios announced aboutpicking a dud, Sundance could
of Rogue Pictures, its hor- see its slowest year in some time.
nedy specialty label. Picture a smaller than usual collec-
ailing economy, combined tion of gun-shy executives huddled
he waning presence of dis- together in the cold.
rs willing to gamble on com- At this year's festival, a number
ly limited pictures, means of films look particularly interest-
ing. "Brief Interviews with Hideous
Men,"anadaptationfromDavidFos-
ter Wallace, is written and directed
le film s face a by John Krasinski (Jim, from "The
office"), who also starsinit.Inaddi-
ding m arket. tion, there's "Big Fan," directed by
Robert Siegel, the screenwriter of
"The Wrestler." And there's also the
documentary "I Knew It Was You,"
udiences may not get to see about the tragically short life of
fthe best, if less commercial, acclaimed actor John Cazale. Given
iowcased at Sundance. the climate of the world of indepen-
of the most highly touted dent film, I can only speculate as
the 2008 Festival ("Ballast," to whether any of these films will
ector Lance Hammer and make it to thebigscreen.
" from the duo that made the There's no question - Sundance
ted "Half Nelson") received is still a place where many of the
-no exposure in theaters. best films of a given year are exhib-
n't mean to be a spoilsport, ited. What I've come to under-
I mean to be naive. Of course stand, however, is that Sundance,
vie industry relies on the like many other significant events
les of business just like any in the world of film, is inextricable
eld. Without money, movies from the Hollywood machine. This
cannot be made and distrib- doesn't necessarily ruin the festival
nd with the limited avail- for me. It just isn't the Sundance of
of capital to buy films as well my dreams.

;I

U of M Business & Finance
Annual MLK Convocation
Featuring Les Brown
MondayJanuary 19,2009, 1-3pm
Rackham Auditorium,915 E.Washington-
bes5
Free admission

i


