liC

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, February 11, 2009

michigandaily.con

SWATTED BY THE SPARTANS

'U' called on
to sever ties
with Russell

Michigan forward DeShawn Sims was a huge presence in the paint, turning in almost half of Michigan's total offensive output. But his game-high 18 points wasn't enough for
the Wolverines, who lost 54-42 to No. 9 Michigan State last night in Crisler Arena. For more coverage of the game, see Sports, Page 8.
T H E EcCONOMICS OF GE LIFE

Athletic apparel
company allegedly
fired employees who
tried to unionize
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily Staff Reporter
The University's Advisory
Committee on Labor Standards
and Human Rights is calling on
University officials to end their
licensing agreements with Rus-
sell Corporation, an athletic
apparel company that has come
under criticism for allegedly firing
employees for unionizing.
In a letter sent Monday to Kris-
ten Ablauf, director of licensing for'
the University, the committee cited
practices from two of the compa-
ny's facilities that allegedly failed to
properly communicate and respect
the right to association.
The committee is asking the
University not to renew its licens-
ing agreements with Russell Corp.
when the current license expires
on March 31.
The committee's letter to Ablauf
said it would not be advisable to
continue a relationship with the
Russell Corp. because the compa-
ny has not respected the employ-
ees' right to association.
"Even if top management at Rus-
sell firmly and strongly believes in
respect for every human being and
respects the right to association,
the committee concluded they did

a poor job of communicating those
ideals to people at the two plants and
of implementing/enforcing appro-
priate practices," the letter said.
The letter recommended the
University sever ties with Russell
Corp. and that monitoring the sit-
uation closely would not be suffi-
cient to prevent further instances.
"Because of the company's pre-
vious failure to adhere to its own
standards of conduct, we do not
feel that continuing the license,
even under strict monitoring of
any new code of conduct, is appro-
priate," the letter said.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said the commit-
tee's letter was received and will
be reviewed by the Office of the
President and the Office of the
General Counsel.
Russell Corp. has been linked to
two separate instances of abusing
workers' freedom to association.
The original investigation by
the Worker Rights Consortium, a
University affiliate that is paid to
monitor anylabor or human rights
violations by Universitylicensees,
found that Russell Corp. dismissed
virtually all of its unionized
employees in its Jerzees de Cholo-
ma facility in Choloma, Honduras,
in March, shortly after a union
was formed there.
Russell Corp. had originally
refused to comply with WRC's
investigation and rejected remedi-
ation plans to reinstate the union-,
ized employees. But the company
ultimately relented and agreed to
See RUSSELL, Page 7A

F
cou
pro
Thor
to dip,
Office
that th
cause a
ures ne

'irst-year dues Though both the Panhellenic
Council and the Interfraternity
Id be too high for Council saw an increase in recruit-
ment from last year, Mary Beth
spective Greeks Seiler, the director of the Office
of Greek Life, said the economic
next fall downturn could affect students'
decisions to be part of the Greek
By NICOLE ABER community, especially given the
Daily StaffReporter cost of first-year dues to join a fra-
ternity or sorority.
ugh their numbers have yet She added that though recruit-
officials in the University's ment numbers for the National
of Greek Life are concerned Multicultural Greek Council and
te economic recession may the National Panhellenic Asso-
decrease in recruitment fig- ciation are not yet available, new
'xt fall. organizations are still trying to join

both councils, indicating that they
have yet to be affected by the cur-
rent economic downturn.
While students can look to need
and merit-based scholarships,
which are available through the
individual fraternities' and sorori-
ties' national organizations, most of
these scholarships are not available
to first-year members.
Seiler said it is still too soon to
tell whether the economic down-
turn will affect Panhel's numbers
for this semester and the upcom-
ing academic year. Seiler said she
is concerned that the recession will
affect rush next fall.

"Right now, there's no affect on
numbers. Nationally, everyone's
concerned. We've talked about
working with the chapters and how
they spend money so they keep the
costs as reasonable as possible,"
Seiler said.
Despite the country's economic
troubles, Seiler said there ape no
plans to increase scholarship funds
that are currently available through
Panhel and Junior Panhel - an
organization that prepares students
to be a member of Panhel.
'The only way the scholarships
from Junior Panhel would increase
See GREEK LIFE, Page 7A

INTERDISCIPLINARY FACULTY
Hiring plan adds first 25

Despite freezes
elsewhere, 'U' forges
ahead, filling tenure-
track positions
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily StaffReporter
While many universities are
freezing hiring because of an unsta-
ble economic climate, the Univer-
sity is pushing through the first
phase of its $30 million initiative to

hire 100 new faculty members.
In 2007, the Utiversity launched
the program to create tenure-track
positions in interdisciplinary fields.
A year into the program, 25 positions
had been approved and the search
for individual faculty is underway.
Those 25 positions will be from
six specific interdisciplinary groups
suggested by faculty members to
the Office of the Provost.
Despite the suffering economy,
University Provost Teresa Sullivan
said the initiative hasn't slowed.
"Over half of all American col-
leges and universities now have a

hiring freeze," Sullivan said. "So
people who are on the job market
this year are being funneled to an
increasingly smaller set of schools.
We're one of those schools, so it's
actually good for us - perversely."
Oneofthealreadyselectedgroups,
which will focus on the global HIV/
AIDS epidemic, will be bringtogeth-
er medical and social scientists to
research infection prevention.
Other groups include: Global
Change: Cryosphere and Sea-Level
Impact; Data Mining, Learning and
Discovery with Massive Datasets;
See HIRING, Page 7A

STUDENT GOVERNMNT ECTIONS
LSA Student Government to
drop party labels from ballot

Khaled Abu Toameh presents "Another Angle: Reporting Conflict in the Middle East" in the Michigan League last night.
Israeli-Arab journalist paints bleak
picture of situation in Middle East

Officials say they
want election to be
about the issues
By DANIEL STRAUSS
Daily StaffReporter
Last night LSA Student Gov-
ernment President Leslie Zaikis
announced that in the next round
of student government elections,
members wouldn't run with any
party affiliation.
"We've decided as a govern-

ment that we are going to run on
a non-partisan election," Zaikis
announced. "That means we will
not be running with the two parties
in this election."
Zaikis's announcement came
after the recent formation of the
Michigan Vision Party and word
that the Michigan Action Party, the
most powerful Michigan Student
Assembly party, was going to dis-
solve. She said that the announce-
ment also came after a number of
discussions between the heads of
LSA-SG.
"We have talked with both par-

ties to ensure that they will respect
our wishes to run a non-partisan
campaign," Zaikis explained at
the meeting. "We don't want to get
caught up in the party politics."
Previously, candidates for stu-
dent government ran either as
independents or as part of a party
like the Michigan Action Party. In
past years, candidates who were
affiliated with a particular party
' received campaign assistance dur-
ing the election.
Though LSA-SG candidates will
no longer have a party to help them,
See LSA-SG, Page 7A

Abu Toameh tells
crowd that there are
no viable solutions
By ELYANA TWIGGS
For the Daily
Israeli-Arab journalist, Khaled
Abu Toameh told a packed Vanden-
berg Room at the Michigan League
that there's no simple solution to
neutralize the conflict in the Mid-
dle East, calling both a two-state
and one-state solution impractical.
The event, called "Another
Angle: Reporting Conflict in the

Middle East" was co-sponsored by
the American Movement for Israel
and Israel Initiating Dialogue,
Education and Advocacy, two pro-
Israel campus groups.
Abu Toameh said though a two-
state solution to the conflict is
ideal, it would not be viable.
"The concept of the two-state
solution is wonderful," he said.
"Although I think it's not practical
and will never work."
He added that the power strug-
gle between Hamas and Fatah in
the West Bank and Gaza is hinder-
ing the chance for peace.
"We are stuck, there's no way
to move forward." he said. "This is

not a power strugglebetween good
guys and bad guys. It is between
bad guys and bad guys who are
fighting over money or power."
Abu Toameh also said to resolve
the conflict, both Israel and the
Palestinian territories would have
to make internal changes them-
selves first.
"The change has to happen
from within, you can't send the
marines or armed soldiers to
enforce democracy," he said. "I
would focus on repairing conflict
of Arabs and Jew within Israel."
In addition to sharing his opin-
ions on the conflict, Abu Toameh
See JOURNALIST, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 35 GOTANEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO: 26 | newsa&michigandail.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
How should we cover the upcoming MSA elections?
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS........
Vol. CXIX, No. 92 OPINION....
(12009 The Michigan Daily- ARTS ..........
michigondoily.com

..............2A CLASSIFIEDS ...................... 6A
4A THORSP T .............................8 A
.............. 5A T HE STA TE M EN T................. ..1B


2A - Wednesday, February 11, 2009

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WENSA
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters Explained
Why blue hasn't gone green

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

For the past 15 years,
Roaring Spring Paper Prod-
uct Company has provided
most of the blue books on
campus. Three years ago,
the company introduced
a new product: the green
book - a more environmen-
tal friendly version of the
blue book.
Despite campus's taste for
green products, Women's
Studies lecturer Michelle
McClellan said that most
students in her class still opt
for the blue option.
"It's probably about
one-third green books and
two-thirds blue books at
this point," she said. "If
anything, I prefer .green
books."
If green books, which are
made from 30 percent recy-
CRIME NOTES

cled paper, are better for the
environment then why don't
more students use them?
One reason could be
cost. The green books cost
70 cents, which is slightly
more than their blue broth-
er, which cost 65 cents at the
Michigan Union bookstore.
"I like the idea of green
books, and I'm willing to
pay the extra five cents or
whatever for it," LSA junior
David Keegan said.
LSA senior Miesha Mera-
ti said that given the choice,
and "given that green books
are more recycled - I'd
rather buy green books."
Jim Lucey, general man-
ager for Roaring Spring
Paper Product Company,
said the move towards
"greener" products came

from consumers.
"There's a pretty big
demand for recycled prod-
ucts," he said.
Some professors nowurge
their students to use green
books, but don't require it.
"My Philosophy of Global
Justice class recommend-
ed we use green books,"
LSA sophomore Mary Van
Houten said.
Lucey said there are no
current plans to phase out
production of blue books
in favor of green books. He
said such a decision would
depend on whether con-
sumers bought green books
at a greater rate than blue
books.
Right now, that's just not
the case, he said.
- SAGAR DESHPANDE

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
gacsa@michigasdaily.com bngli@michigandailyconm
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:Sun.-Thurs. 1a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips ,newsernichicgssdaiye~nns
tornections corrections@michigandaity.om
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaySales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classiPed@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
734-61s-0135
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneytRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSMilOVitZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily:com
SsENIO EEWSsssITED :oJlsans Bermn,r oe o ,JuC ie RwndySteens
JennaSkoller,KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIAT E EDITOR IAL PAGE E DITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: EmadAnsari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
A SSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex ProsperirJeColth5Rosenweign
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SNIORARS EDITsORS:Jnie Bo,k rndoConrdis,'5WhitnesPo
ASSS TRTSnEDTOS:oshuaBayerAndrewLapinDaveapBenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
tif Reeden MsaningePhontditons
NI oP OTO EDITORS Said As ah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,Rob Migrin,SamWolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica VOsgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimeidiatditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertisingsales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman,ChristiePhillips
Ryan Businski Cassified sales manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online ales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceManagers
The Michigan Daly(ISSN0745-967)ispublished MondaythroughFridayduringthefaland wi'er
tnrns by sudentsatthenivnsitysf ichian. Onnscopysisavale freeofcharge toall read s.
Aitionalopesmybepickediupat theil:y's officefor$2. Subsciptiosforfltermnstating i
Septembervia U.smalare $110.Winter term(January through Apriis$1, yearlong (September
through Apri )is19.University affiliates aresubect to a reduced.subscription rate.On-campus
sscdpt d*nsfnrfatrn'nme $3.Susoiptionsnute prepaid.The Michigannaiyisamember o
ThenAssociatedPressand ThAsoctiatollegitePrss.

Stacks of blue and green books on display at Michigan Book and Supply. Green
books are made from 30 percent recycled paper.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Bench burned Subject hits head MPowered Art installation
WHERE:'Angell Hall on door Career Fair exploring Earth
WHEN: Monday at about 9:30
a.m. WHERE: Moshe-Jordan R . WHAT: A career fair open to WHAT: An exhibit featuring
WHAT: A bench in Angell dence Ha osber- Resi- students of all majors inter- video, poetry and music are
Hall was charred by an WHEN: Monday at about 5:15 ested in entrepreneurship, used to allow participants to
unknown person, University p.m. featuring entrepreneurs from reflect on their relationship
Police reported. The bench had WHAT: A caller requested a around the state. with Earth.
a 1 -by-2 inch burn on it. The ride to the University Hospital WHO: MPowered Entrepre- WHO: Arts on Earth
Emergency Room for a subject WHEN: Today from 11 a.m. WHERE: Connector Hall-
6at 4 p.m. and Peb. 9 at 8 a.m.. who hit his head on a door,y
Univerity oi reortd. to 4 p.m. way Gallery, Duderstadt
Uiversity Police reported. WHERE: Pierpont Commons Center
Tha bnir tvcnrnt do ha

Thermometer
spill cleaned up
by OSEH
WHERE: Medical Science
Unit I
WHEN: Monday at about 12:05
p.m.
WHAT: Occupational Safety
and Environmental Health
cleaned up a broken mercury
thermometer, University Police
reported. The thermometer was
housed in a drawer in the build-
ing. There were no injuries. ,

e suject was escorte to t
hospital.

and the Duderstadt Center

Blood drive
Card and cookie

Cops in Leicestershire,
Rngland showed up at a
cowboy-themed anniver-
sary party, thinkingcthe guests
were carrying real guns, BBC
News reported. The couple
told the police that the guests
had toygutns and were shocked
they received a firearms tip.
The water in all of the
hot tubs in the Oasis
Hot Tub Gardens is
completely filtered out every
eight minutes.
>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
PAGE 6B
This Valentine's Day,
singles in Chicago can
now use a dating service
called "Nerds at Heart," the
Chicago Sun-Times reported.
The new service allows people
to bond over science fiction
and games.

Gate arm broken u

at carport
WHERE: Hill Carport
WHEN: Monday at about 11:15
a.m.
WHAT: An unknown person
drove their vehicle through
the gate arm, University Police
reported. The cost for repairs
for the arm is estimated at
about $125.

making
WHAT: Valentine's Day card
making and cookie decorat-
ing. Supplies are free and
anyone can participate.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Today from 11:30
a.m. to1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Underground,
Michigan League


WHAT: The Face-off Blood
Challenge between the Uni-
versity and Michigan State
University.
WHO: Blood Drives United
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 6 p.m..
WHERE: Michigan Room,
Michigan League
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Local CFA firefighter David Tree shares his water with an injured Australian Koala at Mirboo North after wildfires swept
through the region on Monday, Feb. 9, 2009. The death toll stood at 181 on Monday.
Australia wildfire death
toll expected to pass 200

As a few fires still
burn, recovery
teams start work
HEALESVILLE, Australia (AP)
- The high death toll from hun-
dreds of wildfires across southeast-
ern Australia has forced authorities
to re-examine an accepted survival
strategy when blazes threaten: Get
out early or hunker down and fight.
Many people waited too long and
perished as they tried to escape the
weekend infernos.
"People need to understand that
a late departure is the most deadly,"
fire chief Paul Rees said.
Recovery teams moving into
burned out towns in Victoria state
found charred bodies on roadsides
and in wrecked cars - grim signs
of futile attempts to flee the raging
wildfires fed by 60 mph (100 kph)
winds, record heat and drought.
The number of deaths was expect-
ed to surpass 200, and a few fires
were still burning.
"The clear evidence is that the
most dangerous place to be is on
the road," Rees, Victoria's country
fire authority chief, told reporters
Tuesday.
The scale of the disaster has
shocked a nation that endures dead-
ly firestorms every few years.

Authorities defended their prep-
arations and actions during the fires
that swept southeastern Australia
on Saturday, saying the extreme
weather conditions made catastro-
phe almost inevitable.
But they agreed that the "stay
and defend" policy, under which
homeowners remain to protect
their properties from fire, needed
to be reviewed.
"It is the application of that pol-
icy and a lack of an alternative that
we need to work on," Rees said.
Evacuation is not mandatory
in high-risk areas, and Australia's
wildfire services largely comprise
volunteers who lack the resources
to protect every home.
In Victoria, there is no formal
alert system to warn of approaching
wildfires, though the Country Fire
Authority distributes advice and
updates on its Web site and through
radio broadcasts.
One expert suggested Australia's
shifting demographics could be
partly to blame for the scale of the
tragedy.
MarkAdamsoftheBushfireCoop-
erative Research Center told Austra-
lian Broadcasting Corp. Television
that many urbanites who moved to
city outskirts have no experience
with wildfires and rely wholly on the
fire service for help. But families who
have lived in the area for generations

are prepared to battle blazes them-
selves, Adams said.
Victoria state Premier John
Brumby said he asked Prime Minis-
ter Kevin Rudd to consider setting
up a national emergency fire warn-
ingsystem months ago.
But officials agree that in the
worst conditions, the direction
and intensity of fires can change
so quickly that sirens, e-mails and
other warning systems are not
effective.
The wildfires outside Melbourne,
Australia's second largest city,
destroyed more than 750 homes,
left 5,000 people homeless, and
burned 1,100 square miles (2,850
square kilometers) of land, the fire
authority said.
While the official death toll stood
at 181 Tuesday evening, Brumby
said there were an additional 50
bodies that the coroner had not
identified and were not included in
the official tally.
"This is going to be a significant
number. It will exceed 200 deaths,"
he said.
One elderly resident of Heales-
ville, who asked not to be identified
by name, said he escapedbefore the
blaze engulfed his home but he lost
two friends.
"It was too fast," said the white-
bearded man, tears streaming down
his cheek and his chin quivering.
A

A


0 The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, February 11, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Granholm eyes
wage concessions
from state workers
Gov. Jennifer Granholm's
administration wants to discuss
possible wage concessions from
state employees to help fix budget
deficits, labor union representa-
tives said yesterday.
Officials from two of the five
unions representing state employ-
ees said they've been contacted by
the Office of the State Employer
about the need for savings.
Michigan's public universities
and K-12 schools also are bracing
for cuts when Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm's administration presents
its spending plan Tomorrow for
the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1.
The state could face a possible
deficit of $1.6 billion in the next
fiscal year. It also could get a cou-
ple billion dollars from a federal
stimulus package next year and
even more this fiscal year, but the
Granholm administration doesn't
know yet how much is coming or
what they'll be able to spend it on.
The governor already has said
her budget proposal will contain
deep cuts, even with the stimulus
money. "It's not going to be pretty,"
Granholm warned last month.
State employees are worried
they'll be asked for more sacrifices
to keep spending in line.
BAGHDAD
Sarkozy seeks to
restore ties with
Iraqi government
President Nicolas Sarkozy paid
the first visit to Iraq by a French
head of state yesterday, smoothing
over lingering resentment about
France's opposition to the war and
positioning his country to cash in
on lucrative arms and oil deals.
The one-day visit, part of a Per-
sian Gulf tour, took place as the
Obama administration is preparing
to draw down the 144,000-strong
U.S. military force and signaled
France's intention to play a diplo-
matic role in a region dominated by
the United States.
"I want to underscore France's
desire to participate in the econom-
ic development of Iraq, the reha-
bilitation of its infrastructures,"
Sarkozy told reporters after meet-
ing Iraqi President Jalal Talabani.
"Our collaboration has no limits."
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka
16 people killed in
hospital shelling
At least 16 patients being treated
at a makeshift hospital in the north-
ern Sri Lankan war zone were killed
by shelling, the Red Cross said yes-
terday, as the military accused rebel
fighters of killing 19 other civilians
fleeing the area.
The United Nations, meanwhile,
said it was outraged by the "unnec-
essary" deaths of hundreds of peo-
ple inside rebel territory and urged
both sides to avoid fighting in civil-
ian areas.

The government accuses the
Tamil Tiger rebels of holding civil-
ians hostage in the war zone to use
as human shields against the mili-
tary's offensive. The rebels deny the
accusation.
Internationalhumanrightsgroups
say more than 200,000 civilians are
believed trapped in the patch of ter-
ritory still under rebel control.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.
Wal-Mart to cut
700-800 jobs at
headquarters
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will cut
700 to 800 jobs at its northwestern
Arkansas headquarters as it builds
fewer new stores this year and
makes other operational chang-
es, the world's largest retailer
announced yesterday.
The cuts are in Wal-Mart's real
estate, apparel and health and
wellness departments, spokesman
David Tovar said. Wal-Mart would
not say how many jobs will be cut in
each segment.
Tovar said employees will be
told of the cuts in the next couple of
weeks and there was no immediate
plan to make other positions within
Wal-Mart available to them.
But he said the company also
plans to add jobs at its New York
apparel office and expects "to add
thousands of jobs" at Wal-Mart
stores and Sam's Club warehouses
this year - a figure that includes
hires at new stores.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nev., left, and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Sen. Kent Conrad, D-N.D. walk off
the Senate floor on Capitol Hill in Washington, after the Senate approved President Barack Obama's stimulus measure.
Senate approves Obama's
stimulus planb 61-37 vote

GM to cut
10,000 jobs
Majority of cuts vary by global regions depending
on staffing levels and market con-
expected before ditions.
The company's statement said
May 1 there would be no buyout or early
retirement packages as GM had
NEW YORK (AP) - General offered in the past, but laid-off
Motors Corp. is planning to slash employees will get severance pay,
another 10,000 salaried jobs this benefit contributions and other
year, saying the cuts are unavoid- assistance.
able with a government restruc- GM spokesman Tom Wilkinson
turing deadline looming and would not say exactly where the
industry-wide sales in one of the U.S. cuts would come from, but he
worst downturns in history. said the automaker will continue
The Detroit-based automaker to staff areas such as electric vehi-
said yesterday it will reduce its cle development that it expects to
total number of white-collar be important going forward.
workers by 14 percent to 63,000. "The goal is to put our people
About 3,400, or 12 percent, of in the areas that are critical to our
GM's 29,500 salaried U.S. jobs future success," Wilkinson said.
will be eliminated. GM also said it will cut the pay
Most of the company's remain- ofmost ofits salaried U.S. workers
ing salaried employees will have effective May 1. The pay cuts will
their wages cut. be reevaluated at the end of the
In its plan to Congress sub- year, GM said.
mitted late last year, GM said it The wages of U.S. executive
would have to reduce both sala- employees will be cut by 10 per-
ried and hourly positions so that cent, while other salaried workers
the company could become viable will see cuts of 3 percent to 7 per-
long-term. The company plans to cent, GM said.
reduce its total U.S. work force GM faces a Feb. 17 deadline to
from 96,537 people in 2008 to present a plan to the government
between 65,000 and 75,000 in showing the wounded automak-
2012, but did not specify how er can become viable. GM has
many of the surviving jobs will be received $9.4 billion in aid from
salaried or hourly, the Treasury Department so far
GM Chief Executive Rick'Wag- and expects to get $4 billion more,
oner, who was meeting with con- but the government can demand
gressional leaders in Washington repayment March 31 if it deter-
about global warming legislation, mines the company can't become
said yesterday's announcement is viable.
"indicative of the kind of things The company is required to
we need to do to get this viability show the government it can
plan in shape and respond to these achieve "positive net present
tough market conditions." value," which means that the pres-
GM has dramatically down- ent value of a company's expected
sized both its salaried and hourly net cash flows exceeds the initial
work forces in recent years as the investment in the company.
U.S. auto market has shrunk from The loan terms also require
an annual sales rate of around 16 bondholders to swap part of the
million vehicles to 13.2 million " company's debt for equity. And,
last year. the UAW must make concessions
Since 2000, GM's salaried work that will reduce labor costs to the
force has shrunk by 33 percent level of Japanese automakers'
from its 2000 high of 44,000 peo- . plants in the U.S.
ple. At the same time, the number Wagoner said yesterday that
of hourly workers has plunged by talks with bondholders and the
more than half - to about 63,700 United Auto Workers union are
people at the end of last year from ongoing and "there's good dia-
133,000 in 2000. logue." GM's plan also will include
Mostofthecuts announcedyes- shuttering additional factories,
terday are expected to take place according to people familiar with
by May 1. GM said the cuts will the plans.

$8
Dc

WA
Senate
Obama
lus me
a string
steps tl
$3 trill
money
nationa
The.
a key v
sets up
the Hot
differer
lion bil
Majc
D-Nev.
bill to,
possibl
Obat
Fla., pr
cue eff
"good n
It ca
sury I
Reserv.
sums o1

38B bill passed, markets and slow layoffs that have
left 3.6 million Americans unem-
w Jones drops ployed.
It was a historic day of emer-
0pogency federal action, but Wall
Street didn't seem impressed. The
SHINGTON (AP) - The Dow Jones industrials were down
approved President Barack more than 300 points in afternoon
's giant economic stimu- trading.
asure on yesterday, part of Treasury Secretary Timothy
g of powerful government Geithner outlined few details of
hat could marshal close to how the Obama administration
ion in taxpayer and private would spend the remaining $350
to revive the collapsing billion of the $700 billion bank
i economy. bailout program started last fall
61-37 vote bythe Senate was under President George W. Bush.
ictory for the president but He also announced a new pub-
difficult negotiations with lic-private partnership to help
use, which passed a slightly strengthen banks.
nt version than the $838 bil- "Critical parts of our finan-
l approved yesterday. cial system are damaged," Gei-
trity Leader Harry Reid, thner said. "The financial system
, vowed to send a finished is working against recovery and
Obama's desk "as soon as that's the dangerous dynamic we
e." need to change."
ma, who was in Fort Myers, Added to the congressional
omoting his economic res- stimulus plan, which aims to
orts, welcomed the vote as create jobs and get Americans
news. ... It's a good start." spending again, the total of these
me shortly after the Trea- combined efforts could easily pass
Department and Federal $2 trillion.
e moved to commit colossal Then, in a related government
f money to help thaw credit commitment of financial sup-

port, the Federal Reserve broad-
ened a program designed to boost
resources for consumer credit and
small business loans - from $200
billion to up to $1 trillion.
Obama kept up his dawn-to-
dusk efforts to sell his new admin-
istration's rescue plan, flying to
Fort Myers, Fla., a city especially
hard hit by mortgage foreclosures.
"I believe in hope, but I also
believe in action," he told a town-
hall meeting in Fort Myers.
Geithner's details on some
aspects of the new plan were
sparse. He said little about how the
new public-private partnership
would actually work to encourage
hedge funds and other investors to
buy toxic securities now clogging
bank balance sheets.
Later, he told CNBC the admin-
istration wants "to be careful to
get this right."
For his part, Obama disclosed
during his Florida appearance that
"I'm going to be personally mak-
ing an announcement in the next
couple weeks what our overall
housing strategy is going to be."
"We've got to provide some
direct relief to homeowners," he
added.

Iranian president responds to Obama's call for dialogue

Ahmadijejad says
he is open to
talks on nuclear
weapons, terrorism
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) - Iran's
hard-line president told crowds
celebrating the Islamic revolu-
tion's anniversary yesterday that
the country is ready for talks with
the United States, the strongest
signal yet that Tehran welcomes
President Barack Obama's calls for
dialogue'
President Mahmoud Ahmadine-
jad made the comments ina speech
to hundreds of thousands celebrat-
ing the 30th anniversary of the
revolution, which ousted the U.S-
backed shah and installed rule
by hard-line Muslim clerics. The
event led to a collapse in relations
between the two countries and
years of enmity.
As usual at such gatherings,
there were chants of "Death to
America," along with the burning
of U.S. and Israeli flags. But the
chanting stopped as Ahmadinejad
spoke of dialogue with the United
States, and the firebrand president
refrained from the denunciations
of America that often mark his
speeches.

Since Obama's election, Irani-
an leaders have struck a cautious
tone over his campaign promises
to open a dialogue with Tehran,
signaling that the government was
undecided on how to respond. Yes-
terday, Ahmadinejad made it clear
Iran is prepared to talk, citing ter-
rorism, the elimination of nuclear
weapons, restructuring the JJ.N.
Security Council and fighting drug
trafficking as possible areas for
discussion.
"The Iranian nation is ready for
talks (with the U.S.), but in a fair
atmosphere with mutual respect,"
Ahmadinejad told the crowds in
Tehran's Freedom Square.
His comments came the day
after Obama said his administra-
tion was looking for opportuni-
ties to engage Iran and pledged to
rethink Washington's relationship
with Tehran.
But Ahmadinejad also
declared that Iran is now a
"superpower" - pointing to the
recent launch of the first locally
made satellite into space - and
made clear it expects tobe treat-
ed as an equal.
"If you really want to fight
terrorism, come and cooper-
ate with the Iranian nation,
which is the biggest victim of
terrorism so that terrorism is
eliminated. ... If you want to

confront nuclear weapons ... you
need to stand beside Iran so it can
introduce a correct path to you,"
he said.
Ahmadinejad did not elaborate,
but in the past he and other Iranian
leaders have criticized the U.S. for
its nuclear arsenal.
His speech comes as he begins
campaigning for a second term.
He faces a formidable challenge in
the June election from Iran's top
reformist politician, former Presi-
dent Mohammad Khatami, who
entered the race over the weekend.
Khatami has supported improving
ties with the West.
Asked about Ahmadinejad's
comments, Secretary of State Hil-
lary Clinton said the Iranian gov-
ernment has an opportunity "to
unclench their fist and to begin
a serious and responsible discus-

sion about a range of matters."
"We still persist in our view
that Iran should not obtain nuclear
weapons, that it would be a very
unfortunate course for them to
pursue, and we hope there will be
opportunity in the future for us to
develop a better understanding of
one another and to work out away
of talking that would produce posi-
tive results for the people of Iran,"
she said.
Tehran and Washington sev-
ered relations nearly three decades
ago after the 1979 Iranian revolu-
tion and the takeover of the U.S.
Embassy in Tehran by hard-line
Iranian students.
But relations deteriorated even
further after the Sept. 11 attacks
when former President George W.
Bush declared Iran belonged to an
"axis of evil." Ahmadinejad wid-

ened that gap after he was elected
in 2005 and defied the U.S. and its
allies by pursuing Iran's controver-
sial nuclear program.
The U.S. believes Iran is secretly
trying to pursue nuclear weapons,
but Iran has denied this accusa-
tion, saying its program is solely
for peaceful purposes such as elec-
tricity.
Years of negotiations between
Tehran and Europe over its nucle-
ar program have failed to make any
breakthroughs, with Iran repeat-
edly rejecting U.S. and European
economic incentives to suspend
parts of its program and brushing
off U.N. sanctions.
But Washington and Tehran
did cooperate closely in the 2001
ousting of Afghanistan's Tali-
ban - before Bush's axis of evil
speech.

Con

800.424.8580 www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?

i


4A - Wednesday, February 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

L 4e MIC41*pan 4

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM TPE"A.,
Recycle after reading
New city policy will increase and expand recycling program
The city of Ann Arbor wants to save the world, one recycled
cardboard box at a time. Right now, one of the biggest
obstacles preventing Ann Arbor from being the environ-
mental savior it wants to be are private businesses' low recycling
rates. But a new city proposal will make recycling easier and
cheaper for private businesses in Ann Arbor by streamlining the
process. Viewed alongside other efforts to increase recycling in
the city and on campus, this proposal is just another example of
Ann Arbor's efforts to stay at the forefront of recycling and the

NOT AB L E Q TA
I'm always good for a beer.
- President Barack Obama, commenting on an invitation to have a beer with
Fox News host Sean Hannity, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ROSE JAFFE E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU
U iave ( I ladjIed :;;,,y
: :,
.esea/v'5 O

4

4

city should swiftly adopt it.
The city of Ann Arbor is expected to
finalize a plan later this month that will
overhaul the way that businesses in Ann
Arbor recycle and dump trash. Under the
proposal, the city government will con-
tract a single company to remove trash
for all city businesses. This would make
it cheaper for business owners to recycle
paper, cardboard and plastic, rather than
just throwing these things in the garbage.
And though the city doesn't expect to save
any money with the new program, the lack
of financial benefits are less important
than the community's commitment to pro-
tecting the environment.
It's a needed measure, especially con-
sidering the vast discrepancy between
how much Ann Arbor residents and busi-
nesses recycle. Residential recycling rates
are above 50 percent, which means 50 per-
cent of waste produced is being recycled or
composted. Commercial diversion rates,
however, are stalled at a 20 percent. With
this new plan, the city could easily reach
its 50 percent goal for businesses.
Some business owners have expressed
concerns about the decreased availability
of recycling options the new policy will
cause. But that's a weak argument. Instead
of expanding options, the city is focusing
on cost. As the city increases the ease of
recycling, the garbage output of businesses
will decrease. That means businesses won't

have to pay as much for trash removal. The
city, for its part, needs to make sure they
choose a responsible company to handle
the recycling.
But more important than the economic
benefits for businesses are the environ-
mental benefits. Recycling saves trees and
decreases the amount of waste that ends
up in landfills. In light of that, City Council
should move quickly to approve and imple-
ment the new rule.
Students are taking an active interest in
recycling, too. Last month, LSA freshman
Alex Levine introduced a proposal to City
Council to make No. 6 plastic cups - like
the red ones littering frat house lawns -
recyclable.
Unfortunately, Levine's proposal hasn't
made much headway because, though the
idea has come up before, the city hasn't
been able to find the necessary resources
to expand the list of items that can be recy-
cled. As City Council implements its new
recycling program, now is a perfect time to
step up the search for options to make Ann
Arbor more green.
Ann Arbor is known for its efforts to
help the environment, and the city should
be taking active steps to earn that reputa-
tion. No matter who's paying for it, that
cardboard box is more useful to the world
at a recycling plant than it is sitting in a
landfill.

0

Driven to break the law

Driving in Michigan is usually
a pretty terrible experience.
During the warmer months,
every road seems
like it's infested
with potholes or
under construction,
causing lengthy
delays. In the win-
ter, positively Arc-
tic weather brings
slippery roads and
blinding snow- ROBERT
storms thatresult in SOAVE
accidents and even
worse traffic delays.
And on top of the
road conditions themselves, Michigan
drivers have to make sure they don't
violate traffic laws, because with the
state's draconian driver responsibility
fees, you end up paying twice.
These fees came into existence
because of the Granholm-backed Driv-
er Responsibility Law of 2003. The
intention of the law was to make roads
safer while bringing in more money
for the state government. Six years
later, only one of these intentions has
become a reality: there's no evidence
that Michigan roads are safer, but the
government has certainly profited.
The Driver Responsibility Law
imposes a fee on certain offenses in
addition to the ticket itself. These
range from the understandable $1,000
fee for drunken driving to the purely
ridiculous $200 fee for not having
insurance or proof of insurance. These
fees are in addition to any other fine a
driver incurs for breaking the law.
And while such fees were never
desirable, many Michigan drivers just
can't afford to pay extra during the
economy's downturn. That's because
in the long run, driver responsibil-
ity fees disproportionately harm low-
income people who have to prioritize
their expenses and can't afford to be

hit with extra fees. Regrettably, not
everyone in the state can afford to
have car insurance, even though they
need to drive in order to have jobs and
make money. Well, the fee for not hav-
ing car insurance is $200, and if they
don't pay at least some of the fee with-
in 60 days, their license is suspended.
Getting your license reinstated is an
extra fee that some can't afford to
pay, so these motorists end up driving
without a license, which will net them
another fee.
This cycle offees puts economically-
disadvantaged drivers in a deeper and
deeper hole because to make money
at a job, they have to drive. In a Feb. 8
article by the Lansing Bureau entitled
"Michigan's fees on uninsured motor-
ists only compound problem for strug-
gling taxpayers", St. Joseph District
Judge Jeffrey Middleton said it's "not
uncommon... to see defendants who
owe $5,000 to $10,000 to the state.
Unless they win the lottery, these peo-
ple have little hope of ever regaining
their lawful driving privileges."
If these fees are especially bad for
people in light of the economy, why
exactly do we still have them? The
purpose was to deter dangerous driv-
ing and make some money for the state.
Well, there's no evidence that traf-
fic infractions are deterred because
of these fees. In a Grand Haven Tri-
bune article from Jan. 19, 2007 titled
"Michigan's driver responsibility law
faces criticism," Rockford Republican
Rep. Tom Pearce said of the law, "has it
done anything to impact safety in the
state of Michigan as far as our roads?
We're not hearing that." This was two
years ago, when the heavily-criticized
driver responsibility fees came under
closer scrutiny and some lawmakers
support eliminating them. But in the
end, nothing came of this talk, and
today driver responsibility fees are
still -a terrible burden to all drivers,

especially the poor.
If the fees aren't promoting safety
and many Michigan drivers just can't
afford to pay them, then there's only
one reason they still exist - the state is
reliant on revenue from them. Indeed,
the state government rakes in $110
million from driver responsibility fees.
And at a time when the state govern-
ment is uncomfortably looking around
for ways to afford its budget, it seems
unlikely that Granholm will actually
urge lawmakers to abolish them.
Extra traffic fines
are unfair to low-

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus,
the Daily would like students to voice their opinions on what
should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

income drivers.
Rather than making a vague appeal
to driver responsibility, it is the state
government that needs to take respon-
sibility for the consequences of this
law. Cashing in on Michigan drivers'
misfortunes is inexcusable and per-
petuates a cycle where those who are
least able to pay end up with the most
substantial debts. At a minimum, the
fees for not having insurance should
be scrapped. Drivers who can't afford
insurance will be even less likely to
buy it ifthey have to pay an outrageous
fine for not having had it in the first
place. The state needs to end its finan-
cial dependence upon revenue from
driver responsibility fees because they
prey on the least-advantaged econom-
ic level of society. Driving in Michigan
might never be perfect,but it shouldn't
come with such unfair costs.
-Robert Soave is the Daily's
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at rsoave@umich.edu.

0

a


SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

'U' students should help Moms and Dads for Education to Stop Teen
Dating Abuse (MADE) is a nationwide
stop relationship abuse coalition of parents, teachers and every-
one else who advocate legislation in every
state to ensure that middle and high school
TO THE DAILY:students across the country are taught cur-
Many people in this country see Val- ricula that enables them to identify and
entine's Day as an excuse to demonstrate prevent dating relationship violence and
devotion to loved ones. However, this Feb- abuse. Right now, Michigan has the oppor-
ruary I am going to dedicate my time and tunity to take the lead nationwide to man-
energy to help raise awareness about the date anti-violence education, which will
relationships that may need the most help: foster better futures for all our children.
those of young people. This Valentine's Day, teens need to know
Teen Dating Violence and Awareness that love is not abuse. I am a MADE mem-
Week, Feb. 2-6, helped bring attention to ber and hope you will join me, along with
an overlooked national problem among thousands across the country, to help pro-
our youth - one that may continue to grow tect youths from abusive relationships.
without the help of parents, educators and Now is your chance to take action. Join the
policy makers. MADE coalition at www.loveisnotabuse.
According to a 2008 survey sponsored com/made, and ensure that curriculum on
by Liz Claiborne, Inc., nearly half of teen teen dating abuse education is introduced
girls who have been in a relationship say in all schools.
they have been victims of verbal, physical
or sexual abuse by their boyfriends. The Sara Vos
Department of Justice reports the aver- Alum
age age at which females are victimized by
sexual assault is 14. Even more alarming is Article attacks athletes
the fact that this abuse is starting among 11
to 14 year olds. a dg t th f csw o
Recognizingthe need for education poli-
cies addressing teen dating violence and
abuse, Liz Claiborne, Inc., along with the TO THE DAILY:
help of the state Attorney General, mem- With regard to a recent article about
bers of the National Foundation of Women women's tennis (Doubles woes continue at
Legislators, additional state government No. 3 in weekend split, 02/09/2009), I am
officials, REDBOOK Magazine and con- very disappointed in the Daily's inabil-
cerned citizens nationwide, is launching a ity to convey correct information. I also
movement to ensure that all teens are edu- want to state my anger with the Daily
cated about teen dating violence and abuse. portraying a rough start to a season in the
/. r

wrong light. Daily in a long time
Lindsey Howard and I have only played best. He captured th
three doubles matches together this sea- from MSA lately (or
son since I have came back to play. And it time I've been here
was not a "lingering wrist injury that kept sents two things th
me out for a few weeks". Ihad surgery and humor and insightfu
have been out for almost two months. I've Give my regards
been struggling to come back, but it's only readers more of this
been a few weeks. It is unprofessional to
focus only on the negatives when I'm com- Geoffrey Hicks
ing back from surgery - a fact the article Engineeringsenior
ignored.
There was also no mention of how well I Students 1
performed last year. The article only con-
sidered this year's record. It's upsetting nyu f
that all the hard work, effort and emotion
that Howard and I put into matches was

. It was also one of the
.e ineptitude we've seen
should I say the whole
e?). The column repre-
e Daily needs more of:
ul commentary.
to Grundler and give
kind of work.
ose shills by
internships

downgraded. TO THE DAILY:
I don't understand why this article was In response to Laura Veith's viewpoint
so negative since our team has reached the (Paying for Internships, 02/10/2009),
18th spot, something a university hasn't enlisting the services of an internship
achieved for awhile. I would like to know company is notpaying for access to intern-
why the Daily would show such negativ- ships. It is paying for the convenience of
ity toward sports when student athletes finding one. Those who choose this alter-
put so much time into our athletics and native are electing to invest money rather
schoolwork. than time.
As Veith mentions, in the last two weeks,
Denise Muresan the Career Center hosted the Internship
LSA sophomore and women's tennis player Fair for 26 employers. It also co-sponsored
the Engineering Internship Fair with the
Grundler's portrayal of Engineering Career Resource Center for
94 employers. That's a total of 120 employ-
. iSA accurate, funny ers offering myriad opportunities at no cost
to University students. There are over 250
internships posted on the Career Center's
TO THE DAILY: Career Connector. These are internships
Will Grundler's satire of an MSA meet- that employers wish to bring to the atten-
ing (An ordinary day for MSA, 02/10/2009) tion of motivated University students. In
was the funniest column I have read in the addition to these on-campus resources,

there are a variety of internship postings on
websites, through professional associations
and personal and professional networks.
Findingopportunities, developingstrong
resumes and cover letters and practicing
interview skills all take time. Investing in
the process and being an active internship
seeker nets the same - and often better -
results than paying a third party and wait-
ing for "the match."
Students learn a lot as interns, but they
also learn a great deal through the process
of getting there. They learn what types of
positions exist and which organizations
are in their field of interest. By conducting
a search, students also learn the sizes and
sectors of potential employers for which
they will be a fit.
Just as the writing and analytical
skills gained through coursework will be
tapped for a lifetime, so is the ability to
understand and navigate the job/intern-
ship process. The more it's done, the more
experienced, confident and connected a
job seeker becomes.
While Veith is correct in pointing out
socioeconomic differences may play into
who may avail themselves to an internship
service, it is the investment of effort that
ultimately distinguishes those who will
have internships from those who won't.
Don't be fooled - writing a check for an
internship not only deducts from your bank
account,it diminishes your jobsearch savvy
for the future.
Geni Harclerode and Kerin Borland
The letter-writers work for the Division of
Student Affairs at the Career Center.
A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 - 5A


New'Panther'
a cat-astrophe
By BLAKE GOBLE Tomlin ("A Prairie Home Com-
Daily Arts Writer panion") spends most of her time
in the film serving up racy jokes
In his newest adventure, for Martin. And yes, Martin dress-
Jacques Clouseau (Steve Mar- ing up like the Pope is abonus. But
tin) is forced to this movie still needed to restrain
masquerade as a * itself in order to keep its PG-13 rat-
Spanish dancer ing, and as a result, there's little of
flailing in span- The Pink the freedom or spirit of the origi-
dex at an inau- nals in "Panther 2."
thentic Roman Blake Edwards (co-creator of
restaurant. The At Showcase the "Panther" movies) and Peter
joke is there: and Quality16 Sellers worked on almost all of
While trying to MGM/Columbia the originals, and they created a
covertly swap perfect blend of locales, lunacy
a secret micro- and laugh-out-loud gags. The new
phone from one table to another, "Panther" movies - especially
he ends up making an ass out of this one - only achieve one of
himself and lighting the place on those three traits. The locations
fire. No surprises there. are bovine and the humor sporad-
But something ruins the joke. ic. Martin just slips by as his own
Sure, the premise of the gag is version of Clouseau. It tries to be
kind of funny, and it's obviously like the classic, but can't when it's

Demetri Martin: World's most intimidating spelling bee moderator.

Comedy with a point

Following in the footsteps
of other 'Daily Show' alums,
Demetri Martin scores
with a series of his own
By ERIC CHIU
For theDaily
Besides being Jon Stewart's regular out-
let for venting, "The Daily
Show" has doubled as a
comedy farm team of sorts,
launching the careers of for- Important
mer contributors like "The
Office" cast members Steve Things With
Carell and Ed Helms, along Demetri
with Stephen Colbert ("The ml
Colbert Report"). Come-
dian Demetri Martin, an Wednesdays
occasional correspondent at10:30 p.m.
for "The Daily Show," is the
latest in this storied tradi- Cmedy Cetral
tion of solo jaunts with his
new Comedy Central show "Important Things
With Demetri Martin."
"Important Things" builds from the stan-
dard variety-show playbook: Each episode

revolves around a specific, esoteric theme
- the first two episodes focus on "Tim-
ing" and "Power" - that Martin explores
through traditional stand-up comedy, songs
and sketches. The show's format is nothing
unique, but Martin makes the most of its nar-
row restraints.
Visually, "Important Things" borrows a
lot of its cues from Martin's stand-up, and it's
easy to see his influence in the show's mini-
malist style. To cut between scenes, the show
uses footage of Martin holding a remote made
out of paper backed by "Juno"-like musi-
cal cues. Arbitrary captions - like one that
labels Martin as "Demetri Martin: Person"
- are also common. While the show's visuals
can border on obnoxiously quaint, it manages
to moderate itself enough to avoid becoming
too grating.
Predictably, one of the show's greatest
strengths is Martin's solo comedy. His dead-
pan demeanor translates well, and his one-
liners ("I wonder if there were any Goths in
Gothic times"), drawings and songs are just
as sharp. The show's quick pace also keeps all
these segments in check. Hopping between
longer sketches, stand-up and shorter inter-
stitial bits, the show tries to avoid sitting on
any gag for longer than it needs to, keeping it
from dragging.

The show's sketches aren't anywhere as
consistent, though. Martin's skills as an
actor are limited, and having him anchor the
sketches, which make up the bulk of the show,
doesn't work nearly as well as it should. One
sketch in the first episode, in which Martin
plays an actor with bad timing who can't get
angry when he needs to, has some potential in
its premise. But, with Martin's inexperience
as an actor, the sketch never really finds its
bearings.
Still, not all of the sketches require the
most from Martin, and the ones that put the
premise ahead of the comedian himself tend
to work best. The sketches that make the most
of Martin's absurd brand of humor - like one
that features Martin as a time-traveling jani-
tor who romances various historical figures -
tend to work best.
In the post-"Daily Show" career qual-
ity barometer, "Important Things" falls more
toward Colbert's critical success than Lewis
Black's ("Lewis Black's Root of All Evil")
inconsistency. It gives viewers something
that's reflective of Martin's best qualities with-
out watering his act down for public consump-
tion. It's not always as polished as it should
and could be, but the strength of Martin and
his material makes "Important Things" a wor-
thy addition to the Comedy Central lineup.

not meant to be plausible or make
any sense. But the scene plays out
squeaky-clean, well-lit and overly
childish, and its humor is ruined
by the poor staging: It turns out
he's in Epcot, not Rome! This stag-
ing problem is what's ultimately
wrong with "The Pink Panther 2,"
the latest Martin-led pillaging of
the Peter Sellers legacy.
"Pink Panther 2," the sequel to
the 2006 Pink Panther re-start
that also featured Martin, plays
like a series of decent jokes ruined
by amateur directing. Martin is a
hysterical guy - aside from Sell-
ers, only he can get away with
tossing wine-bottles, racist jokes
and bad French accents. It's just
that Martin is stuck in another
chintzy mystery-comedy, and it's
holding him back.
Theplotgoeslikethis:Amysteri-
ous thiefknownas the Tornado has
stolen rare artifacts and the "Pink
Panther diamond." In an effort
to catch the crook, a dream team
of investigators is assembled and,
of course, the clodhopping Clou-
seau's in on it. Why? Because it's
funny, right? Clouseau proceeds to
annoy Andy Garcia ("Ocean's Thir-
teen") and John Cleese ("Shrek the
Third"). Hilarious.
But that's it. At 92 minutes and
filled with about a dozen decent
jokes, "Pink Panther 2" is could-
have-heen-areaeinemaSnre.ilv

Watch Steve
Martin tarnish
the legacy of
Peter Sellers.
dumbed way down.
Still, Steve Martin's legacy is
pretty much secure, like it or not.
The typical complaint about the
once wild-and-crazy guy is that
he's become a sell-out. "Bring-
ing Down the House," "Looney
Tunes: Back in Action" and the
"Cheaper by the Dozen" films
are sufficient evidence to argue
that point. But that doesn't mean
Martin was any less funny in
those flicks. Dirty old man jokes
are always funny, even in a rehash
for tots.
Granted, Martin's a witty guy,
and well-played gags are always
welcome. Look for the "no ogling"
gag with Tomlin in this one.
But beware when Clouseau falls
through three flights of chimneys.
Or better yet, just watch the
originals instead. Blake Edwards
got it right a long time ago. Five
times.

Animal Planet beats a dead horse

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
DailyArts Writer
Who doesn't want to travel the
world and ride horses for a living?
Thoroughbred racing has been
the wealthy man's pastime for
the past century
and is consid-
ered by some to
be among the Jckys
classiest orga-
nized sports. So Fridays at
it's natural to 9 P.M.
assume jockeys Animal Planet
are sophisti-
cated men with
adventurous lifestyles and easy
jobs. Animal Planet's "Jockeys"
aims to debunk these myths by
offering a glimpse into the harsh
reality of the profession. Unfortu-
nately, the myths are more enter-
taining than the truth.
"Jockeys" is filmed documen-
tary-style, following seven pro-
fessional jockeys through their
successes and failures. The show
focuses mostly on Joe Talamo,
the arrogant young gun; Aus-

tralian newcomer Kayla Stra,
the undiscovered talent; Jockey
Hall of Famer Mike Smith, who
is determined to stay on top; and
his girlfriend, Chantal Suther-
land, a successful jockey in Cana-
da who is trying to break into the
tougher, male-dominated Ameri-
can circuit.
Apparently, being a jockey
doesn't just consist of sitting on
a horse, steering it every once in
awhile and hoping it's fast enough.
"Jockeys" makes sure to clarify
the fact that these professionals
are skilled athletes and racing is
an extremely dangerous sport.
The opening credits of "Jockeys"
prepares audiences for a thrill-
ing and action-packed view of a
treacherous profession, featuring
majestic shots of sprinting horses
and dramatic silhouettes of jock-
eys. To top it off, Kanye West's
"Stronger" is used as the theme
song. It quickly becomes clear,
however, that "Jockeys" consists
mostly of lengthy interviews. All
the promised action is contained
within a single race, which is over

in one m
Sadly
ish, adv
are onl'
winning
just a sr
Doi
b
sho
past
they dot
relies or
win to it
emphas
struggle
redunda
Still,
heading
ttres. T
Sutherk
increasi

ainute. begin competing against each
,jockeys also don'tlivelav- other, and it won't be long until
enturous lifestyles. They the veterans need an outlet for
y paid the big bucks for the frustration the overconfident
a race, and they receive Talamo is causing. "Jockeys"
sail fee for their efforts if uses the little suspense horse rac-
ing has to offer to its advantage,
leaving some serious cliffhang-
ers at the end of each episode.
n't place any The premiere episode ended with
a jockey falling from his horse in
ets on this a race, but the show did not iden-
.u v n tify who fell. So if nothing else,
)w surviving "Jockeys" at least has compelling
t th s se son. cliffhangers.
t this season. cli ae Planet advertised
"Jockeys" as a gripping documen-
tary series, which created high
expectations. to actuality, the
n't finish in first. The show show lacks any real excitement,
n the crucial incentive to leaving viewers with a boring and
ncrease the drama, but the disappointing half hour. "Jock-
is on jockeys' monetary eys" would do better as a longer
s is just depressing and TV special since it doesn't con-
rnt. tain enough content to warrant
the show seems to be an entire series. Viewers looking
to more promising pas- for suspense and drama in horse
he relationship between racing would be better off rent-
and and Smith becomes ing "Seabiscuit" than tuning into
ngly strained when they "Jockeys" on a weekly basis.

MORE GOODNESS ON
THE INTERWEB!

Go to michigandaily.com/section/arts
for some more fun for the whole family.
Make sure to thank Al Gore.

ARTS IN BRIEF

EP Review
o From strength to boredom
Wild Years
Where'd You Go
Self-released
Where'd You Go is a new three-song EP of
folk ballads by Wild Years, a talented group of
Ann Arbor musicians. On the first track, "Fan-
tasies," frontman Alex Itkin sings about the
desire to fall in love and the sorrow brought
about by being alone. The song starts sim-
ply enough with gentle guitar picking and an

understated drum beat perfect for foot-tapping.
About halfway through, Itkin sheds the skin of
the solitary man and morphs into a small choir
thanks to multi-tracking. The addition ofbanjo,
mandolin and violin propels "Fantasies" into
its gripping chorus. It's a peaceful explosion
capable of raising goose bumps and demanding
repeat listens.
The next track, "I'm Not Coming Out," is a
slight disappointment after the pleasant con-
tagiousness of "Fantasies." Itkin's voice is a
little too echoey, overpowering the instru-
ments. Reverb effect works well in the chorus,
but during the verses it makes Itkin seem like
he's bored - his voice doesn't change in pitch
and there's no emotion to carry the lyrics. It's

not terrible, but it relies on overproduction as a
crutch to make up for the lack of variation.
"Untitled (Band-aid)" follows, bringing the
EP to an unimpressive end. The song begins
with a tame "1, 2, 3, 4" and dissonant violin,
giving it a haunted old country feel. The gui-
tar plays softly as Itkin begins to sing. The lyr-
ics are dull and cliche, staggering along with
lines like, "Snowballs melting in this hot sum-
mer weather." Itkin sounds bored again,.and it
quickly gets repetitive.
Where'd You Go is a good effort, but the last
two songs have a sense of indifference that
puts a damper on the whole affair. Fortunately,
"Fantasies" makes the EP worth a listen with
its sticky, head-nodding goodness.

- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROCES
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
FRANCE
May 18 - June 12, 2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Sat es the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Tuesday, Febr ry 17,5:00pm,Art & Architecture Bldg. Room
Wednes y, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making cre vity an integral part of students'lives and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
in ngan TS
This course is supported by the University of Michigan's Multidisciplinary Learning and Team Teaching Initiative


6A - Wednesday, February 11, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

i

PARKING SPACE AT corner of Divi-
sion/Huron. Easy access, paved lot -
plowed/salted. $135/mo. 994-8120.
PARKING SPACESAVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for ren
06O
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL '09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break and get these new rates.
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!1
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!NEW FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE!!
Newly built, 4-bdrm./3 bath. bye. Ctr.
a/c, dwshr., ldry., deck, garage, free
prkg. Close to medical school! 1318
Jones 734-995-8695 $1990/mo.
!2 BDRMS - Great campus locations!
1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917 Packard,
848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Walnut. All
furnished, include heat, water, and park-
ing, some with free wireless!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100.
!3 BEDROOM Apts!
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.

Please e-maildailyclassified@gmaifcom,
call (734)764-0557, orstop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
!MAY - May 2 bedroom!
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
Soor of a converted house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site.
www.varsitymanagentent.com
(734) 668-1100.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
**AVAIL. FALL '09. 3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1 BDRM APT. avail. for sublet. Free
heat, water, parking. 535 Packard.
734-973-7225.
2 BDRM., UPPER half of house with
free washer/dryer, separate entrance,
A/C, lots of closet space, extra storage
in basement, small backyard, off street
parking, close to campus and bus lines.
Some pets allowed. 775/mo + utilities.
Available early March, Call Mike 734-
646-5771.
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Interne!
S200 signiug bonus on ALL 2 Bedroont
Don't miss out on the Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net

coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734761-2680
www umvers itytowers-m .corn
University
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available Fall
'09. 2 baths, hardwood Soor, Free laun-
dry and parking. Near Yost Arena
$2000 call: 734-717-6913.
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
nent 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwitemnanagement.comn
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
k Studio & 1
r Bdrmt. Units
Tower Plaza Cnoiim
& CiseIIkaz Ban rios n Cu
734-663-1530
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath. 3 prkg. spaces. Oft State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
Mayto May $3400 717-2935
6 BEDROOM, 2 blocks from Business
School, 1111 Prospect, Sept-Sept,
$2,400/mo., 8 mo. lease May-Sept
$2,000/mo. very nice, 614-395-8104.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rmns. tw4. State ad 5th.
$3775 ng pus utl 734-996-1991
IWilsonWhireI

7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the
Best Central Campus DEALS!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This will not last long, when they're
gone, they're gone
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-m.com
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedroom!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Etherne!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primescom
nAmenities varies by location
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus //wilsonwhitemanagement.com
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information:734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
Clss
i

wjce the **-
 ed ana"
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
7347419300
wwwannarborapar.mentcsne
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
AVAILABLE FALL 2009
7 bdrm. 521 Linden, 2 bath, 6 prkg.
spots, wshr./dryer,dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $3200 linden52@me.com
5 bdrm. 525 Linden, 2 bath., 4 prkg.
spots, wshr./dryer, dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $2800 linden525@me.com
Contact Jonah Copi 415 786 8206.
BIG HSE: 5 lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free ]dry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
CENTRAL CAMPUS 3 and 4 bed-
room houses for rent. 734-649-7571.
FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrm. House
$2400!!! On Central Campus, 3 bath,
Furn., free Idry, prkg, 734-786-0249.
3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1200/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable tool Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ ma.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com

FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 ranger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
Don'twant to be
a Bummer in the Summer?
t--
FIND A JOB
Check out the great
opportunities available on the
Summer Employment Page.
Pablished in
The Michigan Daily en Feb 12
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May o May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.

I

lwww.lartomtbrook. Um. 734-665-56201



RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, February 11, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 31 "When pigs fly!" 46 Indian
1 Like mosttchips 1 Protected 32 Baden-Baden et mausoleum city
6 Joe 2 Dynamic al. 49 "Measured"
10 Native Arizonans opening? 33 Collegiate VIP highway distance
14 Group with a Y, 3 Bank 37 ABBA musical 50Cut and paste,
sometimes encumbrance 38 Id modifier e.g.
15 The Whiffenpoofs 4 Load 39 Little lice 51 Kind
of a cappella 5 Peninsula state 41 Mumbai wrap 52 Load
fame 6 Hyde's better half 42 Replace in the 54 Tab or Jolt
16 Somalian 7 Muhammad with schedule 55 Safe havens
supermodel gloves 44 Bahamian 56 With no rocks
17 Ryan/Kline 8 Border crosser's capital 59 Bigger than med.
comedy stamp 45 Jazz bands 60 Winning game line
19 "Phooey!" 9 Makes milder
20 Annoying wait, 10 Cab Calloway ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

I

0

facetiously
21 Irving in films
22 Ami ens inn
24 Coral ring
28 Response tu a
laryngologist
27 Oklahoma
Soonems inai
33 Einstein
34 Travals
35 Hardly old-
fashioned, in an
old-fashioned way
36 "Amazin"' team
37 Canasta plays
39 Bagel topper
40 Prefix with duct
41 Galsworhy's
'The Forsyte
42 Manetflra
43 Barbara lain's
'Mission:
Impssihie" role
47 Hand hlder?
48 Fomer Venetian
magistrates
49 Oratorio with the
"Hallelujah"
chorus
53 G.I. field ration
54 Axe
57 Nuptial vows
58 Singer/actress
who made her
Broadway debut
in "Hair" (1968)
81 Tumkish currency
82 "Otheilo"
schemer
63 Gdansk dance
64 Caesar's
repruath
65 Cornelius and
Zira, in a 1968
sci-fi film
66 Diner"raft," and
theme ofthis
puzzle

catchphrase
11 "A Jug of Wine
1. poet
12 Throe
13"Picnic"
playnght
18 Managed care
gps
23Scroogean cries
S4uury
25 Area prone to
flooding
27 Italian fountain
28 Get takeout, say
29 Land east of
Eden
30 The Pont
d'Adsgnun
spanned it

61 1 CHURcH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH

Deadline for ine ads is 11:30am one business day priorto publication. Classification:
010 - LostFound
Rates: $4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15 per inefor each 020 - For Sale
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
contact our staff for detai as* Students may receive a 25% discount when 030 - Autom71i0
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non -
business ads only) 9 All ads must be prepaid unless prior biling privileges 045 Taromcuogy
045 - Technology
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call one 050 - Furniture
of our Account Executives 060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
I day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 -Services
2 lines 8.60 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employ
4 lines 17.20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel

i

81

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abb
TMD for falure to pubish an adverti
shal be limited to pubishing in a sul
wll be responsble for classified adv
Rates: Al changes shown on the of
consecutive rate if requested and p
Advertisers may cancel an ad befor
been published. Refusal: All ads a
resale of tickets at more than face s
accepting advertising.

reviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
sement for any reason, or for publshing incorrect ads in a specified issue
bsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
ertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
pen rates nes are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
aid in ful by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds:
e pubcation deadlne, but no refund wil be given unless the ad has not yet
re subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisementsfor
olue. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to

12 - Announcements
123 - Websites
25 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
160 - Pes

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

4

.4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
determir,
RUSSELL being put
From Page 1A or were
investiga
comply with WRC, before closing of the de
the facility in March 2008. was base
This incident prompted the Fair universil
Labor Association, which is an In an
organization that monitors human Health P
rights and labor violations by Uni- the Pres
versity licensees, to issue a correc- tee on L
tive action planto Russell Corp. that Rights,
was meant to be implemented at its that Rus
facilities. However, a similar occur- with the
rence at the company's Jerzees de "We c
Honduras plant was brought to the letter, th
University committee's attention in poor job
October 2008. of associ
WRC and the Fair Labor Asso. assuranc
ciation investigated the matter to to their o
teaching
HIRING all regula
From Page 1A The p
position
Energy Storage; Microbial Ecology: is long a
Relationships to Human and Envi- ing, Sulli
ronmental Health; and Social Sci- "I do
ence and Energy. have a si
Sullivan said the five-year pro- group he
gram is being frontloaded with Searc
these 25 positions, although the formed b
plan is to hire roughly 20 new fac- to find st
ulty members a year. committ
Approving a certain number of applican
areas doesn't mean that a specific to camps
number of hires will necessarily be The
made, Sullivan said. Because the disciplin
University has to consider things program
like the time it could take for new discusse
staff to arrive and begin working, invitedt
it's hard to set a concrete timeline interdisc
for the program's completion. The p
While the new staff will have very later thi
specific areas of focus and expertise, Office of
like any faculty member, they will by facul
both teach and conduct research. sent to P
In an e-mail interview, Univer- Presiden
sity Spokeswoman Kelly Cunning- final ap
ham said, "the new 100 hires will search f
have regular tenure-track faculty tions is
appointments and will engage in of winte
LSA-Si
LSA-SG dent gov
From Page 1A not seek
ing this
Zaikis said she still expects LSA-SG "We
members to support each other dur- respect 1
ing the campaigns. The new cam- we are h
paign system is meant to increase ter and
the focus on campaign issues and their go
put less emphasis on party labels, for us n
Zaikis said. ment ca
Megan Madison, LSA-SG's ties," Za
academic relations officer, said Steve
shedding party labels won't make sel, thin
first-time candidates think twice improve
about running. "In thi
"I think that the commitment is best op
there to make sure that people who rently I
are running for the first time, or the parties
last time, or the 78th time are all and wh
going to be fully supported by stu- that stut
dent government as a whole," Madi- we can
son said. of our is
The rest of the campaign process table, th
for LSA-SG will not change and all for or
presidents and vice presidents will LSA-
still run on the same ticket. to be hel
the richigan daily

IMMEDIATE & FALL AVAIL.
sion. Eff.,
OCCUPANCY sert
arate son
Co. 734-3
Great location: 1320 S. University
6 BDR1
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term Less than'
baths. N
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet dry, cabh
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms net.
Call Today! 904 S. FO
bdrms. 1
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com house. Br
laundry. P
!6-Bedroom House!
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2full
baths, great for 6 -8 people. Close to
Downtown, Zingerman's & summer
farm market! (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin- Furnist
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and Include
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405. 3 & 4
Ni
NOW LEASING Call
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com Info
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms: 1 & 2
520 Packard 5 min. wa
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover suble
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church I
1021 Vaughn Street 07
1000 Oakland-1 LEFT
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University FREE S
411 High bedror
819 Brown
www
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty THESIS
734-662-5500 or organizai
www.michcomrealty.com for details. 996-c

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 - 7A

it if similar pressure was
it on employees who had
planning to unionize. The
tion found that at leastrpart
cison to close the factory
d on a "serious violation of
ty codes of conduct."
interview yesterday, Public
rof Sioban Harlow, chair of
ident's Advisory Commit-
abor Standards and Human
said she was disappointed
sell Corp. did not comply
corrective action plan.
oncluded, as we state in the
at Russell Corporation did a
of communicatingthe right
iation," she said. "We lack
e that Russell will adhere
iwn standards of conduct."
, research and service, as
ar faculty do."
rocess for establishing the
s and bringing in new staff
nd arduous, but progress-
van said.
expect that next fall we'll
gnificant chunk of that first
re on campus," she said.
h committees have been
by the Office of the Provost
aff to fill the positions. The
ees will create a short list of
ts who will then be brought
is and interviewed.
next round of academic
es to be selected for the
has already started to be
d, and faculty members are
o make suggestions for new
iplinary groups.
roposals will be collected
s month, organized by the
f the Provost and reviewed
ty members before being
rovost Teresa Sullivan and
t Mary Sue Coleman for
proval and funding. The
or the next wave of posi-
slated to launch by the end
r term.
SG has also notified the stu-
ernment parties that it will
campaign assistance dur-
election.
hope that they would
that this is the system that
oping to utilize this semes-
that it's beneficial both for
vernment and our election
ot to have student govern-
ndidates to run with par-
ikis said.
n Benson, LSA-SG's coun-
iks this change will only
the election process.
ie long run, I think it's the
tion," Benson said. "Cur-
people associate political
with student government
en parties fail they think
dent government fails. Now
run independently and all
sues can be brought to the
ere's no more people voting
ie party."
SG elections are scheduled
d on March 18 and 19.

Director to talk youth activism

Pollock will discuss
his film about teen
politicians tonight
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
For the Daily
If the November 2008 elec-
tion wasn't enough evidence of
America's politically active youth,
Jason Pollock's documentary "The
Youngest Candidate" is proof
American teenagers are not afraid
to take a stand and make a differ-
ence in their communities.
The feature-length, non-parti-
san film was written and directed
by the 27-year-old filmmaker, who
has worked closely with Acad-
emy Award-winning filmmaker
Michael Moore.
Pollock's film will be screened
tonight at 7 p.m. at The Michigan
Theater, and Pollock will speak
after the showing.
Pollock assisted Moore in the
creation of "Fahrenheit 9/11" and
accompanied him on "Slacker
GREEK LIFE
From Page 1A
is if they make extra money from
their fundraiser because there's not
extra money sitting somewhere, so
they have to raise it," Seiler said.
"The one scholarship that Panhel
gives for graduate school is bud-
geted to be the same, so there are
no plans to increase it."
Seiler said each chapter in the
Panhellenic Association has dif-
ferent scholarships available to its
members. But these scholarships,
which come from the chapters'
national organizations, are in most
cases not available to new mem-
bers, making first-year member-
ship costs expensive.
"Theyhave emergencyaid some-
times available as well as scholar-
ships, but they're not going to offer
it to people they don't know any-
thing about yet," Seiler said. "You'll
have to have at least made a com-
mitment to the sorority of which
you've joined and completed you're
new member term, so they know
you're goingto be there."
According to the Panhellenic
Association's website, dues for
sororities in Panhel vary on an
JOURNALIST
From Page 1A
also discussed his experience as a
journalist in the Middle East. He
said that though it is sometimes
difficult to remain unbiased, he
focuses on the facts on the ground.
"I am not pro-anything, other
than the facts," Abu Toameh said.

Uprising" - a tour through 60 cit-
ies across the country to encourage
voter participation for the 2004
presidential election.
After working on "Slacker Upris-
ing," Pollock said in an interview with
The MichiganDaily that he "was real-
ly inspired to getyoung people to vote
inthe2008 November election."
That experience is what Pollock
said generated the idea for "The
Youngest Candidate," which fol-
lows the campaigns of four teen-
agers who ran for public office in
November 2008. After three years
of research, Pollock found about SO
teenage politicians who were suc-
cessfully elected to office.
He said the major reason so few
teenagers run for office is that most
people don't know they can run.
When choosing the charac-
ters for his film, Pollock said he
searched for "funny and exciting
and interesting characters ... that
were cool, successful and witty."
The four teenagers - Ytit Chau-
han, George Monger, Raul De
Jesus and Tiffany Tupper - were
all between the ages of 18 and 20.
individual chapter basis, ranging
from $900 to $2,300 in annual fees
for first-year members.
The Junior Panhellenic Council
also provides merit scholarships for
first year members of Panhel. Last
year, these Junior Panhel scholarship
funds, which are garnered through a
fundraiser, totaled $9,275.
Panhelalso provides a$500schol-
arship to a graduating Panhel mem-
ber going on to graduate school.
Seilersaidthese scholarships pro-
vided by Junior Panhel and Panhel
are based solely on merit. There are
no explicitly designated need-based
scholarships or financial aid avail-
able from the Office of Greek Life.
"We have no way of checking aid.
We don't have access to their per-
sonal financial (information)," Seiler
said. "We're not a financial aid office
so we're not equipped to collect that
information and evaluate it. We
don't ask for how muchthey need."
While Seiler said she is disap-
pointed the Office of Greek Life is
not able to offer need-based schol-
arships, she said there is just not
money available for them to pro-
vide such funds.
"That's the way it is with lots of
things in life," Seiler said. "I'd love
to have every student interested
"I have no problem working for any
newspaper that provides me with
a free platform to write whatever I
want."
Abu Toameh also discussed his
unique position as an Arab living
in Israel.
"Israeli-Arab citizens feel as
though they are being discriminat-
ed against. They are regarded as a
cancer, an enemy from within," he

Running in mayoral, city council
and school board elections, Pollock
said the young candidates were
exactly what he was looking for.
"I think my characters are all
little Obamas," Pollock said and
added he wanted to "find kids who
were doing this outside the box."
Pollock said part of what make
his characters so awe-inspiring is
that they "know what it means to
have to sacrifice in their lives."
While none of the four teenag-
ers won seats in their prospective
elections, Pollock said they have
all become public figures in their
communities and will continue to
take advantage of their growing
public influence.
He said the teenagers' cam-
paigns have encouraged their fel-
low contemporaries to run for
public office.
"This is going to be a huge move-
ment in America," Pollock said.
"It's happening on a small scale
now, but it will happen on a large
scale eventually."
Pollock added that "it's not just a
movie, it's a movement in America."
to do it, but there's not money out
there. There has to be costs associ-
ated with membership and these
are nonprofit organizations."
Seiler added that living in a
sorority house can often be cheap-
er than paying for room and board
in the residence halls. She said the
average cost for room and board in
a Panhel sorority house is $7,344,
which includes 19 meals per week.
The average cost for room and
board for a double room in a resi-
dence hall, including the 150 block
meal plan, is $8,590, according to
University Housing's website.
"Room and board in a sorority is
generally lower than it is in a resi-
dence hall, and it's an eight-month
contract," Seiler said. "Living in a
sorority house is a bargain."
While Seiler said that students
who do not have the financial
means are at a disadvantage when
it comes to joining in Greek life,
tFC President Ari Parritz said the
cost of chapter dues is usually not
something that hinders students'
ability to join the Greek commu-
nity. The cost of dues for IFC chap-
ters are not released to the public.
"Any student, from any socio-
economic background, is equally
considered during recruitment,"
said. "We are fighting for integra-
tion, not separation."
Ben Kaminsky, president of
Israel IDEA, said Abu Toameh's
realism is necessary to resolve the
conflict.
"He seems to be a pragmatist,"
Kaminsky said. "If there ever is
going to be a solution to this con-
flict, pragmatists need to come
together to find solutions."

Besides creating "The Young-
est Candidate," Pollock is also
heavily involved in his non-profit,
non-partisan organization called
The Youngest Candidate, which is
based in Ann Arbor.
"We wanted to start a Rock
the Vote kind of thing where you
see other teenagers running for
office, and you can support local
campaigns and just get involved
in civics in some way," Pollock
said.
Pollock plans to use his film as a
way to draw attention to his non-
profit organization.
Pollock andhis teamhave devel-
oped a committee to encourage
youth candidates and political
activism at Michigan State Univer-
sity. The filmmaker said he plans to
start more committees - including
one at the University of Michigan
- as he travels across the country
for screenings of his film.
He said the film "is entertaining
and has rock music ... and is more
accessible to kids who would nor-
mally be turned off by something
political."
Parritz said in an e-mail interview.
"Most individual chapters, as well
as theirnational organizations,offer
extremely generous need-based
scholarships. As such, cost is most
often not a prohibitive measure in a
student's decision to go Greek."
Most IFC chapters have need-
based scholarships available spe-
cifically for the chapters' members
at the University, which are funded
by their alumni. The IFC does not
currently offer scholarships to
men in the Greek community, but
it does have plans to do so in the
future, Parritz said.
"Earlier this year my board dis-
cussed if the current state of the
economy would affect our win-
ter recruitment numbers," Par-
ritz said. "Not entirely sure what
would happen, we were obviously
ecstatic when we saw our numbers
soar this winter."
Some IFC chapters, includ-
ing Sigma Phi Epsilon, even offer
scholarships to students before
they arrive on campus, Seiler said.
"A couple of IFC fraternities, in
an effort to get interest in Greek
life and intheir fraternity will offer
scholarships to incoming students
and there's no obligation to join,"
Seiler said.
Robbie Dembo, vice chair of
AMI, said that Abu Toameh offers a
unique perspective on the conflict.
"I think that hearing an Arab
Israeli speak about the conflict
brings fresh perspective to campus
discourse," he said. "He has been a
correspondentcoveringthe conflict
in and outside Israel, so he brings a
lot of knowledge and insight into
the conflict."

9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
uzzer. Lundry facility & sep-
rage lockers. Gallatin Realty
68-0256.
M. HOUSE just off Packard.
7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
ew kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
e, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
$3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
OREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
oth fully furnished, A/C, free
uarm j av a7-475-7q7.

ssa Properties
hed (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
s heat, water, and parking
Bdrm. Houses Available
ow Leasing Fall 2009
Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
i@issaproperties.com
IW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
lk, MED, DENT, and Campus
SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
oms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
annrboranartmentsnet

N BXR. & EF. APTS
450 650
e EPT. 2009
CTI PROPERTIES
74-663-5609
be 1 Wanted
090
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
ATTRPACTIVE FEMALES FOR
nude, semi-nude photography. No expe-
rience, Flexible hours, great pay. Must
be 18. For interview call 734-678-4181.
!!!BART ENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min-
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
H UM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
FUNDR AISE FOR T HE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
ate to get the experience you need!

PANERA BREAD
Opening Soon
Now Hiring:
Hourly Associates
& Bakers
Panera Bread, one of America's fastest
growing restaurant chains has excellent
opportunities at our bakery-cafe open-
ing soon in Ann Arbor on N. Univer-
sity Ave. We offer premium pay for
full and part time shifts. FT associates
receive excellent benefits, 401(k) and
more. Apply on line at www.panera-
bread jobs, enter your zip code, click
on New bakery-cafe opening - Univer-
sity Ave. EOE
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate andegraduatetstudies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
U OF M Student Lab Assistant. Age-
ing Research. Mouse husbandry and
data collection. Holiday and weekend
availability needed. 10-15 hr/wk.
Contact Maggie 936-2164.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
093
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

For Thursday, Feb. 12, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
Quite likely, you'll feel unusually
close toa friend today. If someone needs
your help, you'll really identify with
where he or she is coming from.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Others might not understand you
today. They might put you on a pedestal
and idolize what you represent; or by
contrast, they might think you're full of
pie-in-the-sky dreams. Hard to say
which way this goes.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
All kinds of interesting philosophies
and unusual ideas attract your attention
today. You're intrigued by paranormal
phenomena or news about magical
events. You want to know more!
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
If you can do fundraising for others
who are needy, you will do so. You want
to use what you share with someone to
help someone else who is less fortunate.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Your idealism is aroused today. You
feel very sympathetic and kind toward
close friends and partners. If there's any-
thing you can do to help someone today,
you will.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You might want to help a co-worker
today. Alternatively, co-workers might
want to help you. Either way, a strong
feeling of give-and-take and mutual car-
ing exists on the job today.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Your sympathies go out to children in
need today. Artists can be particularly

creative today. Romance is idealistic to
the extreme.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You will do whatever you can to help
a family member today. Quite possibly,
others will do what they can to help you.
People feel extremely kind and sympa-
thetic to each other today.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Don't be worried if you spend today
daydreaming or passing time in a
dreamy way. We all need to have days
like this now and then to give ourselves
a mental-health day.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You might be tempted to go overboard
spending money on luxurious and
extravagant things today. (It might be
wise to give these matters a sober, sec-
ond thought.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
You feel kindly disposed to others
today. You're in a sympathetic frame of
mind. This is good.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
It's easy to be selfless and put the
needs of others before your own today.
You truly care for those who are less for-
tunate. You have genuine concern for the
suffering of others.
YOU BORN TODAY You have excel-
lent mediating skills because you're
quick to see where each person is com-
log from. You understand the human
psyche. Not only that, you have a talent
for seeing all sides of a situation; plus
you're persuasive when you want to be.
Give yourself an opportunity to study or
learn something important this year.
Birthdate of- Christina Ricci, actress;
Michael tronside, actor; Jim Creeggan,
bassist.

L) 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

S EDITING- LANGUAGE,
aion, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
566 or writeon@iserv.net

I


a

8A - Wednesday, February 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

Sims' S eroics not enough

By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
With less than five minutes left
in last night's game, sophomore for-
ward Manny Harris put the ball in
his left hand, drove down the base-
line and dished it to junior forward
Zack Gibson. Gibson dunked the
ball and was fouled on the play.
Gibson M A
nailed the MICHIGAN STATE 54
free throw MICHIGAN 42
and the
atmosphere at Crisler Arena hit a
crescendo.
Despite all that had gone wrong,
Michigan was down by just four
points against No. 9 Michigan State
in the final minutes.
But Michigan wouldn't get any
closer and the Spartans pulled away
to win 54-42 in the only regular-
season matchup between the two
rivals. Junior forward DeShawn
Sims led Michigan with 18 points,
but he was the only Michigan player
to score in double digits.
The Wolverines had their chance
in the waning moments, but as Sims
said after the game, they were out-
hustled on many occasions.
With about three minutes left
and Michigan down by five, Harris
intercepted a pass and had just one
defender to beat on the breakaway.
As he went up to the hoop, Harris
lost control of the ball and it sailed
out ofbounds.
A minute later with the Wolver-
ines down by five, Harris grabbed a
loose ball, but Michigan State center
Goran Suton muscled it away.
"There were some 50-50 balls
thatwehavetoget," Michigan coach
John Beilein said. "It's part of a will-
ingness to bloody your nose to win,
these are the ones we got to get."
Michigan fought an uphill battle
all game and struggled to score
against Michigan State's tough 2-3
zone defense. The Wolverines' 42
points were a season low.
Michigan (5-7 Big Ten, 15-10
overall) mustered just 15 points in
the first half. The only consolation
for the Wolverines was that Michi-
gan State managed just 23.
"That hasn't happened to us
much," Beilein said. "Our timing's
off and their defense was very good
as a shock early in the game. ... We
don't really see that length and that
speed defensively when we're shoot-
ing the ball or movingthe ball."
In the opening minutes of the

As season winds
down, M' still has
uncertain future

t's finally time for the
No. 4 Michigan hockey team
to start thinking about the
playoffs.
And considering where the
Wolverines were earlier in the
season, it must CHRIS
be a relief to MESZAROS
be in that posi-
tion. On Ice Hockey
But they
still have a lot of work left to do.
Michigan is currently in third
place in the CCHA with 30
points, two behind second-place
Miami (Ohio) and six behind con-
ference-leading Notre Dame.
Ohio State and Alaska are
Michigan's biggest concerns,
with each sitting just two points
behind and tied for fourth place.
Nebraska-Omaha, the Wolver-
ines' opponent this weekend, is
within range with 26 points in
sixth.
But enough about the stand-
ings. What does Michigan have
to do?
The top eight CCHA teams
host a playoff series, and the top
four teams get a bye and host a
second-round series.
All Michigan needs is one
point - a tie - to clinch a home
series and six points to secure a
first-round bye.
"From here on out, it's playoff
hockey, every game, every period,
every shift," junior acting captain
Chris Summers said.
That puts the Wolverines in
a pretty good spot, given where
they were around Thanksgiv-
ing. At that point, Michigan was
buried in the CCHA standings in
seventh place and had won just
one of five conference series.
After that, the team awakened,
reeling off 12 wins in 14 games.
With a real shot to finish second
in the conference, the Wolverines
realize they couldn't have done
much better.
"We're starting to establish
our identity, who we are as a
team," Summers said. "We were
kind of questionable at the begin-
ning of the year and had kind of a
shaky start. But I think guys are
starting to adjust to their roles on

the team."
However, it's nearly impossible
for Michigan to win the CCHA
title outright, since the Fighting
Irish have a six-point lead and
play some of the weaker confer-
ence teams down the stretch.
Last year, four CCHA teams
made NCAA Tournament. It's
likely the conference will again
receive four berths this year at
most, making a top-four finish
in the regular-season CCHA
standings and anappearance in
at least the'conference tourna-
ment semifinals that much more
important.
The other concern for the Wol-
verines is their inconsistency.
"I still think we should be able
to win every game at home, and
we haven't done that," sophomore
Louie Caporusso said. "When you
play in an arena like Yost, there
shouldn't be any reason why you
can't run over every team."
Their recent winning streak
is impressive, but the power play
continues to struggle, the defense
gives up too many turnovers and
the offense can be spotty.
Until a few weeks ago, Michi-
gan's top line produced more
than haFf the team's offense,
though the team has been much
more balanced of late. The all-
sophomore line of Carl Hagelin,-
Aaron Palushaj and Matt Rust
scored three goals against Lake
Superior State, and the rest of the
Wolverines are also starting to
pick up their scoring.
"We're not relying on one line,"
Berenson said. "We're not rely-
ing on one player. We'll probably
have one 20-goal scorer this year.
I think we're a more balanced
team."
While the Wolverines cer-
tainly have their flaws, that can
be overcome in college hockey.
Who would have thought Notre
Dame would be in the National
Championship game last season,
or Michigan State would win it
all the year before?
All it takes is for a team to get
on a roll at the end of the season
and there's no reason why Michi-
gan isn't capable of that.

I
I

ZJcaCH At nISt R/Dai
Junior DeShawn Sims was the Wolverines' one consistent offensive threat in their 54-42 aoss to Michigan State last nieht.

second half, it seemed like the scor-
ing struggles would continue.
The Spartans outscored Michi-
gan 7-4 in the first five minutes dff
the half. But with 14:10 left in the
half, freshman guard Zack Novak
received the ball on the right wing
and knocked down his only 3-point-
er of the night.
On three ensuing possessions,
Novak fed Sims for three dunks.
Novak had three assists, all of them
going to Sims.
Sims was the Wolverines' only
viable scoring threat, with all of his
coming in the paint.
To make things worse, sharp-
shooters Novak and freshman guard

Stu Douglass finished a 'combined
1-for-8 from the field. The team
wasn't much better, hitting just 34.8
percent of its shots.
"Give them credit, they were
ready for us," fifth-year senior C.J.
Lee said. "That's just on guys taking
their shots with confidence. I don't
thinkguys were scared. I don'tthink
guys were hesitant. I just think guys
missed. We're not going to change
nothing. Coach has been doing this
forever, and we're notthe first group
to play this offense."
Michigan hoped to use this
game against rival Michigan State
(10-2, 20-4) to bolster its tourna-
ment resume. But now the Wolver-

ines will have to scramble to pick
up some quality conference wins
before Selection Sunday.
Beilein wouldn't say last night's
game was a must-win, just an impor-
tant one.
"We just have to play," Beilein
said. "We just got to concentrate on
the next practice, next game. What
is the must for? Is it to get into the
NCAA Tournament? When it comes
to March and we're not close to 20
wins or we're not 9-9 in the league
or something like that, then we
won't be in it.
"But does one game determine it?
I don't think so, but they certainly
all add up."

6
6
6i

More Wolverines need to speak up

uring last Sunday's film
session, Michigan men's
basketball coach John Bei-
lein told his team a fable while pre-
paring for No. 9 Michigan State.
The story goes like this: A group of
elephants stood
in a jungle amid
fewer lions.
The lions didn't
think they stood
a chance against
the more numer-
ous and mighty
elephants, but
the lions even- RUTH
tually came to LINCOLN
see the situation
differently.
They noticed the elephants never
talked to each other, so when the
elephants separated, the lions could
attack and pick them off one-by-
one.
Beilein hoped the tale would
motivate some of his quieter play-
ers to speak up on the court. In last
night's 54-42 loss at Crisler Arena,
the rivalry crowd was deafening
at times, but a startling silence fell

upon the Wolverines.
"Basically, we have to talk on
defense and talk on offense when
we're open, or we'll get eaten," said
fifth-year senior guard David Mer-
ritt, explainingBeilein's tale.
The first part of the message got
through pretty well. The Wolverines
held the Spartans, who lead the Big
Ten in offense, to a season-low 54
points. Michigan State also tied its
season-low rebound total with 31.
But something else was missing.
Besides fifth-year senior guard
C.J. Lee, the Wolverines are a quiet
group on the floor. Lee consistently
audibly encourages his team to get
back on defense and calms players
after they commit fouls.
Last night, while playing a career-
high 37 minutes, Lee said a sore
throat limited him vocally.
But the Wolverines need more
than one major voice on the court.
Who was there to fill in?
Beilein has said junior forward
DeShawn Sims and sophomore for-
ward Manny Harris have grown the
most as team leaders this season.
Last night, Harris spoke up on

defense, switching defenders in the
man-to-man schemes and chasing
for rebounds. Harris's contributions
were vital for Michigan'to stay in
the game.
But on the other end, Michi-
gan State's defense was a little too
much.
Michigan was held to a season-low
15 points on19 shots before halftime.
Five times that half, the Wolverines
were forced to take bad shots as the
shot clock wound down.
And in a low-scoring rivalry
game like this one, someone needed
to step up.
Sims responded in the second
half, calling for the ball inside and
finishingwith agame-high 18 points.
Sims didn't start the game, but still
set the tempo after the break.
"Walking the walk before I can
talk the talk," Sims said, describing
the biggest obstacle to opening up
on the court. "Got to walk it. Got
to be able to do everything I ask of
someone else. If I tell someone not
to miss a screen or talk on screens,
I have to talk on screens they see
every time."

This team is hard to figure out.
Sometimes, it's hitting eight or nine
3-pointers a night, and other times,
the ball doesn't even come near the
hoop. Butmore voices canhelp when
things aren't going well to spark the
offense and defense.
With just six games left, and just
two of those at home, Lee can't carry
the whole burden. Michigan needs
its best players like Harris and Sims
to say more on the floor-
"I always say you may have a very
quiet persona, but you can not have
that on the basketball court," Beil-
ein said at his weekly radio show on
Feb. 9. "And until we all understand
that and come out of our personality
a little bit, it holds us back. It really
does. It doesn't mean they're bad
people, but it's very important."
Michigan is a young team and its
players will find their voices with
time. But until that happens, the
Wolverines' NCAA Tournament
hopes are fading just as quickly as
their voices.
-Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr 'umich.edu.

F-ILE PHOTO
Senior Lydia Benitez Col6n returned home for the team's first tournament ofthe year.
Golfers shake off rust
in Puerto Rico tourney

,

shaping the unions for you

By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
For the Michigan women's golf
team, a three-day trip to Puerto
Rico was probably the perfect
change of scenery.
But for senior co-captain Lydia
Benitez Colln, the Lady Puerto
Rico Classic was her final chance
as a Wolverine to hit the links at
the Coco Beach Resort course, an
hour away from where she lives.
However, the Puerto Rican
native wasn't able to shake off
a winter's worth of rust during
Michigan's first tournament of
the year, firing a 241 (plus-25) in
the 54-hole tournament Saturday
through yesterday.
The rest of the Wolverines
didn't fare much better, shooting
a composite score of 933 and fin-
ishing 11th out of16 teams. Purdue
won the tournament easily (888).
Although Michigan faced some
tough odds - six of the top 10 in
attendance teams play in warm
climates and most already had
played this season - Michigan
coach Kathy Teichert said it was a
frustrating weekend.
Additionally, Kent State, the
only team that Teichert said
hadn't played yet this year, has
three international players on its
roster that she said played over
Winter Break.
"We're still working out the
kinks, it's going to take some

time," Teichert said. "I can't be
discouraged with this group. They
do work hard, and it's just time to
refocus."
Teichertsaid a major factor that
kept her team from finishing bet-
ter in the tournament was poor
performance on short approach
shots. Aside from a weekend in
Florida before the start of the
semester, Michigan players hadn't
actually played on a course since
mid-November.
The team has been practicing
indoors and at Miles of Golf prac-
tice facility in nearby Ypsilanti
throughout the offseason, but the
coach said nothing is the same as
real grass and actual competition.
"As atteam, we need to do a bet-
ter job with our scoring irons,"
Teichert said. "They weren't crisp
this weekend. We're not getting
the ball close enough to the hole
and we're even missing some
greens."
. Colon was no exception, strug-
gling all weekend with her short-
irons, according to Teichert.
"She missed a lot of shots,"
Teichert said. "But she's going to
bounce back. She's very feisty and
wants to compete at the highest
level."
Freshman Milena Savich was
the only Wolverine to finish in the
top-20, carding a 229 (plus-13) in
the tournament. Her performance
was good enough to tie for 18th
place.

Check your email
starting February 11th
Complete the Unions
email survey between
February 11 - 20, 2009.
Enter for a chance to win great prizes including:
+8 GB Pod Touch
+ $75 STA Travel Vouchers
+ $50 Barnes & Noble Bookstore Gift Card
+ U-go's Gift Bags
+ UM Commemorative Books
+ Munchie Money

Let Us know what
you think and win
great prizes!
MO University Unions uunions.umih.edu
" e "u " * ""o t "'io D ivii "d tA "

0I

:

A


a


w

0

w

0

0

w

I B Th ichgnDil ensdy .erur 1 009

My mark of destiny

o one asks to be different.
It's just something that hap-
pens, something that you
sort of get stuck with. Some choose
to accept their circumstances, and
others try to change them. I have
learned to accept the fact that I'm
different, but I still can't help but
wonder how different things would
be if I never walked into the kitchen
of my old home years ago.
The incident happened when I
was four years old, living in Port-au-
Prince, Haiti and left unsupervised.
My mother had hired a babysitter
for the day, but the girl was young
and not too careful. With a single
parent's income, my mother could
only get what help she could afford,
which wasn't much. That morning, I
started off in the care of a stranger,
and by nightfall, I was on my own.
Unaccompanied in my house, I wan-
dered aimlessly from room to room
until I found myself in the kitchen.
In Haiti, it's custom to prepare
dinner in the morning and leave it
stewing on the stove for the rest of
the day. The smells that wafted into
my nostrils all day were intoxicat-
ing, and even now, I still remember
them. That day, desperate to cure my
hunger pains, I found myself drawn
to those smells even more. Standing
on the balls of my feet, I stretched
FREEGANS
From Page 5B
grocer's habits. "Whole Foods
sucks," Cat declared, because they
compact and lock their dumpsters.
So, of all places, don't start there.
Although this adventure
focused on food, freeganism
applies to anything that's free. Cat
has also dived behind thrift stores
and recommends freecycle.org,
where she once procured a wash-
ing machine.
That's the story of the intrigue
behind a simple recycled 'rose.
Now that I know the economic,
environmental, and community
benefits of freeganism, I under-
stand why someone would fall
head over heels for a few bouquets
of dumpster flowers. What can I
say? My rose, in a measuring cup
of water on my desk, is now even
redder and more radiant than
when I first received it.

the tips of my fingers across warm
smooth metal.
The moment I yanked, my head
was engulfed in extreme heat. Clos-
ing my eyes and covering my face
with my hand, I felt the boiling slime
penetrate my hands and cover my
back. I stood there screaming while
the oil burned my skin. There was
no longer the aroma of spiced chick-
en and buttered rice, but instead, the
smell of burnt hair and flesh filled
the room. That's when I realized I
was burning. My hair, my scalp, my
back = all of me was burning.
After the skin grafts, after I left
the hospital and after I was "fixed,"
I returned home and looked in the
mirror. I no longer saw a happy lit-
tle girl with sparkling brown eyes.
Instead, I saw half a little girl and
half of something scary - half a
head of hair, half a face and half a
person. Although the hospital had
done what they could, the medical
care in Haiti at that time wasn't up
to par. My mom tried to bring up
my morale, but I wasn't her happy
little girl anymore. She decided that
I needed to go to the United States
so that I could have a proper opera-
tion.
With the help of a friend, I was
introduced to the Kline family, who
already had 13 kids of their own
LANGUAGES
From Page 7B
AFTER THE SEPT.11 ATTACKS
In the early 2000s, the Center
for Middle Eastern and North
African Studies attracted little
interest. Near Eastern Studies
Prof. Gottfried Hagen said there
was a short period in the early
2000s when the CMENAS pro-
gram lost federal funding.
"Title VI is a renewable grant
every three years," he said. "In
one of those grant cycles, we just
didn't come out at the top."
But now that the Middle East
has become an area. interest,
chgnces are that won't happen
again.
In 2001, Title VI funding shot
up again, shortly after Sept.
11.Hagen said federal support
has been easier to maintain since
9/11.
"9/11 was a crucial event for

andit o
from di
I was ju
a home.
the ans
more m
geon lo
procedu
thought

T
ti
a
C

f whom had been adopted quarter of my face. Instead of going
fferent countries. To them, back to Haiti, I became the 14th
st another kid who needed child to join the Kline family. While
But to my mom, they were my mother and I have stayed close,
wer to her prayers. Even I spent most of my childhood in
iraculously, a cosmetic sur- another country with another fami-
oking to perfect an intricate ly. It's not the normal family dynam-
re involving burned skin ic, but then again, my accident had
I was the ideal candidate. I made sure that my life has been
anything but "normal". That hasn't
been a bad thing, though. As I grew
up, I began to more resemble more
Che accident of a happy child and less a deformed
being. I was able to make friends, go
hat gave me on play dates and interact well with
others.
new family, A while ago, I was asked how I
t and grew up tobe the person Iam today.
ountry a This person was confused - how
lifestyle do I walk around slightly disfigured
and yet act so outwardly confident?
For a while, I couldn't answer the
question. I just said that I must
be lucky. But once I truly thought
move to Los Angeles and live about it, I knew that getting buried
e Kline family for a three- wasn't an accident but more a step
ocedure that would give me in my life journey. My scar is how I
ad of hair, minimal scarring came to America and how I met my
chance to lead my life look- family. My entire life, I've had to try
everyone else. harder to let people see the "real"
forward 17 years, and here I me because I wanted to prove that
duating from the University I was something special and not
higan. After my surgeries, just the "girl with the scar". It has
ned a full head of hair and never been enough for me tobe like
with a scar covering only a everyone else because I know that

was tot
with th
year pr
a full he
and the
ing like
Fast-
am, gra
of Mic
I regait
was left

I am not, and I couldn't allow peo-
ple to judge me based on my looks.
Strangely enough, the scar that
might seem to be a source of embar-
rassment has actually given me a
stronger sense of self than I might
have otherwise had.
About six years ago, I received
a call from the same doctor that
helped me before. He was inter-
ested in doing a surgery to remove
my scar. This was something I
had dreamt about in the past, but I
was shocked when I automatically
responded, "No." At that point in my
life, I had spent more than half my
life with the scar. With everything
I had been through, the scar had
molded me into a strong, fearless
person. If I had never been burned,
never been adopted and never lived
this life, I would never be in the
positionI am today. I would most
likely never have graduated high
school, let alone gotten to attend the
University of Michigan.
My scar is a keepsake of how I
left Haiti, of all the people that have
helped me and of all I have had to
overcome to be the person I am
today. What I see in the mirror now
is just a souvenir, a one-of-a-kind
and indestructible memory.
- Tatiana Kline is an LSA senior.
Business School senior Jack
Dart studied Chinese for two
semesters last year because of the
China theme semester and the Bei-
jing Olympics.
He said that the attitude of most
non-Asian students taking the
language is to better understand
China for business relations.
"They hear it's going to become a
superpower," he said. "They're try-
ing to get a leg up in terms of going
into International Relations."
The Ross School of Business
offers a study abroad program to
China, which fills up quickly each
year. It also hosts an Asia Business
Conference each year, with panel-
ists who work with companies in
Asia.
Business school junior Sarah
Horvitz said a lot' of students in
the business school are looking to
work abroad because the economy
here is not at its most stable.
"The economy isojust blowing up
over there," she said.

CMENAS in the sense that all of a
sudden itcreated anenormous pub-
lic awareness that the Mid East is a
crucial region, and there's an enor-
mous need for expertise both in the
public and political reason," Hagen
said. "Since then, for instance, fed-
eral support for the area studies
and especially language studies,
more particular for Arabic, has not
been questioned anymore."
The center was first interested in
the area stretching from Morocco
to Iran and Iraq, McCarus said. But
as areas like Pakistan became more
newsworthy the Center expanded
its area of study.
"Usually when there's a crisis
in some part of the world, those
languages increase," McCarus
said. "For example, when the U.S.
opened diplomatic relations with
China, there was a lot of Ping
'Pong."
GROWING DEBT TO CHINA
In light of China's rise to eco-

nomic prominence, the Center
for Chinese Studies has seen an
increase in student and campus
interest. Unlike some of its fel-
low area studies centers, CCS only
offers graduate degrees, leaving
the undergraduate education up to
the Asian Languages and Cultures
department.
Political Science Prof. Mary
Gallagher, Director of the Cen-
ter for Chinese Studies, said the
Center is in charge of much of the
campus outreach on China such
as weekly documentary film view-
ings, lecturer talks on campus and
support to other departments that
choose to offer classes pertaining
to China.
Gallagher said Chinese has
become more relevant as Chi-
na's economic importance has
increased.
"It used to be you went into the
Foreign Service," she said. "Nowa-
days, there are plenty of places who
will hireyou."


V V V V V V V

Am Ah i i

-9

w

a

w

0

0

w

I. *6*

WedesdyFebuay 1, 009 h ihgnDiy 7

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Allison Ghaman
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

new rules
rule 182:
Complaining
about not hav-
ing a valentine
is more passe
than Valentine's
Day. Don't do it.
rule 182: When
overhearing a
stranger loudly
talk of personal
problems, it's
acceptable to
give painfully
honest advice.
rule 183: If you
don't have a
better idea about
what do, you
can't complain
about the
stimulus plan.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

THE EDITOR'S NOTEBOOK with JESSICA VOSGERCHIAN
A lank at the big news events this week and howimportantthey reallyare. Convenient'lyrated tram one to 10.
DON'T SMOKE DOWN PHELPS
Eight people connected to the infamous Michael Phelps bong hit photo-

'1

graphed at a University of South Carolina party have been arrested. One
of the culprits is the alleged owner of the bong who caught the attention
of police when he tried to sell his Olympian-patronized piece on eBay
for $100,000. A dumb move, to be sure, but there are many students on
campus who must understand the need to recover something after an
encounter with Phelps in party mode. Let me guess: he smoked all your
weed, grabbed your girlfriend's butt, mumbled something unintelligible
and tried to hit your best friend. Yep, that's our Phelps.
STIMULATING PACKAGES
The Senate approved Barack Obama and Timothy Geithner's miracle
stimulus package Tuesday, and somehow, the nation's economy isn't fixed
yet. Infact, the initial response on Wall Street was anything but encourag-
ing. The Dow fell by 382 points by the time the market closed. Investors
are concerned that Geithner's plan to flood the financial system with as
much as $2.5 trillion lacks details. But the Obama team hasn't been trying
their hardest to assure us that the plan is surefire and even... sexy? At
least that's what the language of some-Obama staffers suggest. As Peter
Orszag, Obama's budget director, said last week: "This is a package that
is responsive to this massive gap." Hm, not sexy. Not assuring.

S cholarly interesthasn'tbeen the
driving force behindthe growth
of language and culture studies.
The opportunities available today
in many foreign language programs
stem directly from the "know the
enemy" mentality of yesterday.
Whenever a threat from abroad
captured the attention of the nation
- Pearl Harbor, the Space Race,
the Sept. 11 attacks and the United
States' growing economic debt to
China - area studies programs at
the University benefited in fed-
eral funding and increased student
interest. There was a need to under-
stand the enemy and to have schol-
ars trained about the history and
culture of the area so the govern-
ment would have a pool of experts
to call upon.
"Anything that winds up on
the front page of the newspapers
receives attention," said Douglas
Northrop, director of the Center for
Russian and East European Studies.
"(Russian)wouldn'thave received
the same attention if it didn't have
political meaning"
In the last century, this trend has
resulted in increased federal funds
and student interest for the Center
of Japanese Studies, the Center for
Russian and East European Stud-
ies and the Center for Middle East-
ern and North African Studies.
These programs qualify as National
Resource Centers, which are eligible
to receive federal funding under the
National Defense Education Act.

George Strongsent a telegram to the
University warning them that "it is
the desire of the war department
that no repeat no publicity of any
kind be given the army language
school at the University of Michi-
gan."
A few months before, the army
had approached the University

Ann Arbor wasn't the only col-
lege town to harbor a clandestine
army school during this time - both
the University of Colorado and the
University of California at Berkley
trained soldiers in Japanese as well.
But the University of Michigan was
unique in that it took the program
established during the war and used

"It
States
us," sa
sor en
Studie
Sho
passed
cation
loans


APPROPRIATIONS FOR TITLE VI/FH PROGRAMS, 1959-2006
Federal funding to language and culture education programs increased after historic events
S100
n 0 -
80
1989 -fall of Berlin Wall
-'60
ib-
40-
. 20-
2001 - Sept. 11th attacks on
~U.S. soil

Unthe Enemy
Events like Pearl Harbor, the Space Race and the September 11th attacks have a silver lining for University area studies:
more federal funding and student interestBy Elarton

was a shock to the United
that the Soviets surpassed
aid Ernest McCarus, a profes-
meritus in the Near Eastern
es Department.
irtly afterwards, Congress
d the National Defense Edu-
Act, which granted more
to colleges in an effort to keep
students competitive in
fields like math, science
and language.
In response, the Uni-
versity formed four new
area studies centers: the
Center for Chinese Stud-
ies, the Center for South
and Southeast Asian
Studies, the Center for
Middle Eastern and
North African Studies
and the Center for Rus-
sian and Eastern Euro-
pean Studies.
According to a report
released in 1991, the area
studies centers at the
University were created
because interested fac-

ulty members persuaded the Uni-
versity to ask for funding.
In the late 1950s and early 1960s
- after the launch of Sputnik -
NDEA funding for Area Studies
shot up from about $23,000,000 to
about $93,000,000.
Without Sputnik and the Cold
War, though, that funding wouldn't
have begun on such a large scale.
During the Cold War, no one
really knew what to believe about
the Soviet Union. And as soon as
Sputnik was launched, there was a
fear that it would surpass the U.S.
in technology and weaponry. At the
same time, there were still those
sympathetic with the communist
theory, despite the Red Scare and
McCarthyism.
Northrop said students studying
Russia and the surrounding areas
tended to be either sympathetic
or condemning of the communist
plight.
"Politics in the field tended to be
very polarized," he said. "Efforts to
stigmatize people on one side or the
other certainly did take place."
See LANGUAGES, Page 8B

COMEBACK CANINE
Stump the Sussex spaniel won the 133rd Annual Westminster Kennel
Club show Tuesday at the ripe old agerof 10 - that's like 70 in dogyears.
Stump, who's officially named Ch. Clussexx Three D Grinchy Glee, made a
9 major comeback after falling seriously ill in 2005. While unlikely to rouse
any more interest in dog shows in general society, Stump's win might
attract the attention of the science community. Is this Sussex spaniel's
medical history an example of extreme inbreeding gone right?

O 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000


BE PUBLISHED
IN THE STATEMENT'S LITERATURE ISSUE
The Statement is accepting submissions for the annual literature issue featuring poetry
and short fiction written by students. E-mail your work along with your name, college
and year in a Word document attachment to vosgerchian@michigandaily.com.
Prose pieces should not exceed 2,500 words and short-shorts are especially welcome.
DEADLINE: FEB.15


T h n desd uar Wicig .' .. .y~b~ 1 20S*

V w V U V


"

v

w

0

w

Wednesday, February 11, 2009 - The Michigan Daily
QUOTES OF THE WEEK

4I' --

ABOUT CAMPUS

LLUSTRAT ONS BY JOHN 00U ST

We exchanged a some-
what lengthy kiss ... it was,
again, a romantic kiss."
- BEAU BREEDLOVE, a 19-year-old former
mayoral intern from Portland, Ore., describing
one of his underage sexual encounters with
Sam Adams, the city's publicly gay mayor, in
a men's bathroom at City Hall. Adams has
admitted the affair but said they waited to
have sex until Breedlove turned 18.

"The Khomeini fatwah was
pronounced on Valentine's
Day, 20 years ago, so that
would be the worst."
- SALMAN RUSHDIE when asked by a New York
Magazine reporter if he had any bad Valentine's
stories. Rushdie went into hiding for nearly a
decade after the Ayatollah of Iran issued a fatwa
ordering his assassination in response to
his novel "The Satanic Verses".




Rent-by-the-hour
romance
Testing the waters at the
Oasis Hot Tub Gardens
I've always been a little suspi-
cious of the Oasis Hot Tub Gardens
on State Street. And to be sure, I'm
not alone.
"I used to work at a pool, and
you can only get things so clean,"
my roommate.said when I told her
of my plan to visit the Oasis.
For many, including myself, the
idea of a rent-by-the-hour hot tub
room is questionable. It has a cer-
tain Las Vegas quality: what hap-
pens in the hot tub stays in the hot
tub - perhaps at the expense of
the next person to use the hot tub.
But admittedly, my qualms
about the Oasis aren't founded
on anything concrete. What do I
know about the world of rental jets
and rainforest rooms? I've never
been squeamish of hotel mattress-
es or bowling shoes - is a well-
used Jacuzzi any different? To find
out, I put my prejudices to the test
and went with my boyfriend for a
romantic night at the Oasis.
I checked online first to fig-
ure out the best time to go. For
two people, the cheapest rate -
$29 per hour - is offered before
4 p.m. An evening hour goes for
$36 Sunday through Thursday
and $44 on weekend nights.
On the website, I scoped out all
16 of the theme rooms available:
"Japan" with its oriental pago-
da, "Vancouver" complete with
totem pole and rustic fireplace
and "Bali" featuring a painted
seascape mural.
One tab over from "garden
photos" is another labeled "water
purity," which attests in detail to
the cleanliness of the Oasis hot
tubs. But it wasn't exactly assur-
ing tobe so assured. Would a res-
taurant advertise that its kitchen
is sanitary? Or a hotel that the
sheets are washed?
Of course, those paragraphs
describing the "state-of-the-art

disinfectant and filtration sys-
tems" are exactly for the benefit of
skeptics like myself. And actually,
the water at Oasis does go through
much more than the Band-Aid-
ridden public pools of youth must
have. The water in each hot tub is
completely filtered out every eight
minutes and each tub is drained
and hand scrubbed almost daily,
Oasis manager Faith Frazine said.
"We know if people are con-
cerned about the cleanliness of
their waters, then they probably
won't be repeat customers," Fra-
zine said.
Before I talked with Frazine
and had my cleanliness concerns
entirely put to rest, I gathered my
own impression of the Oasis. I'm
happy to report that the gardens
did not seem the least bit unhy-
gienic, though it was still quite an
experience.
Oasis stays open until at least 1
a.m. every night, so my boyfriend
and I chose to try our luck with a
walk-in appointment last Sunday
at 11 p.m. After parking our car,
we passed another, grad-student
type couple who must have just

emerged from their own love tub.
The woman - her short hair still
dripping wet - seemed to shoot
me a knowing smile.
Entering the building, we were
immediately greeted by the strong
smell of chlorine and aromatic spa
packets, as well as two smiling
women in bright floral shirts.
The employee who checked us
in acquainted us with the rules -
no food, no bubble bath or oils and,
first and foremost, no alcohol.
That last one, which was posted
on several walls, caught my atten-
tion. Was it to keep customers
from profaning the gardens with
drunken debauchery? Were the
owners of Oasis enterprising pro-
hibitionists? No. As it turns out,
it's because alcohol raises body
temperature, and for a company
that deals in 100-degree water,
the liability of a customer putting
a few back and passing out face
down in the Casablanca tub is too
high.
"One beer is like 15 beers," Fra-
zine said. "It's not safe."
After declining to purchase a
bottle of St. Julien non-alcoholic

wine, my boyfriend and I were
led to the Borneo Rainforest room
- an open-ceiling space with the
gardens' largest hot tub, capable of
holding up to 10 people.
The woman guiding us men-
tioned that the room was often
used for children's birthday par-
ties, but the thought struck me
that it might be the setting of very
different, very adult kind of par-
ties.
But I pushed this thought from
my mind. The soft music flowing
from the changing room radio (set
to the "piano and guitar" station)
didn't suggest "porno" so much as
"Mom and Dad's special date".
Through a door we found our
private paradise, which consisted
of a large hot tub, a plastic palm
tree and a stone waterfall that had
been temporarily put out of com-
mission during the last few weeks
of extreme cold.
The space didn't really exude
Borneo - in the rainforest, I know,
waterfalls don't freeze over - but
with the rising steam lit by the
glow of alternating neon lights, it
was sort of like a dream sequence

in some Univision soap opera.
It was sexy in its way, not that
I'd recommend having sex. Being
mutually averse to pay-by-the-
hour sex locations, my boyfriend
and I didn't try. But if we had
wanted to get the most bang for
our buck, it might have been dif-
ficult. The eye-watering chemical
vapors and high water tempera-
ture discourage rapid movement.
Most visitors to the Borneo
room likely do what we did: stare
at the moon and enjoy the contrast
between the chilly air and steam-
ing water. Frazine said that Oasis
is busiest in the winter for just that
reason. She also said customers
corpe in droves to use the outdoor
tubs when it's raining, and that
they're even safe during a thun-
derstorm - a prospect that might
entice me to come back.
So in the end, I believe I've over-
come any reservations I had about
the Oasis Hot Tub Gardens. The
25-year-old company is what is
has always been: a sort of classy,
sort of cheesy escape just a few
miles from campus.
-JESSICA VOSGERCHIAN

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Geithner's stimulus plan
2. Sunken treasure ships
3. Radical anti-whaling activists
And three things you can't:
1. Job cuts
2. CNN's inaugural T-shirts
3. The pilot of Flight 1549 O

"You know it happens behind closed doors, obviously."
- PHYLLIS SHEPARD, a woman from Cape Coral, Fla., who witnessed a man making out with a
blowup female sex doll in the middle of a grocery store parking lot. George Bartusek, 51 years old,
was apparently groping the dolls outside his car as people walked by him. He was soon arrested.

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Clammy Sosa is mad
For years, mascots have merely ran
around stadiums, flailing their arms
and attempting to pump up crowds.
They're no more than glorified cheer-
leaders with funny costumes.
Buts watchtout, sports fans, The
mascots arc taking the games into
their own hands.
Across the nation, innocent coach-
es and players have been accosted by
a group of seemingly friendly mas-
cots called the ZOOperstars.
The most dangerous of these -
Clammy Sosa - is an 8-foot-6 clam
dressed to resemble baseball slugger
Sammy Sosa. And Clammy has an
appetite for destruction.
According to the official Clammy
Sosa website, he "slurps up and swal-
lows everything in sight." The giant
clam backs up, sprints toward its
prey, pounces and swallows the per-
son whole.
This video captures Clammy at his
most lethal. After playing catch with
a baseball player, the mascot backs up
and attacks the unsuspecting man.
After a few awskward moments, the
player's head disappears and his legs
are flailing from Clammy's mouth.
The playeris thencompletelyswal-
lowed by the gianteclam. Disliking the
taste of sweaty clothes, the mascot
spits out the player's shoes and uni-
form. He then trots off the field, his
job done and the crowd stunned.
- JASON KOHLER
See this and other
YouTube videos of the week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaity

BY THE NUMBERS

t i a
a -
IL LUST RATION BY LAU RA GA RAVOG LI

Estimated weight, in pounds, of a prehistoric snake whose remains
were discovered by scientists in Columbia
Length, in feet, of the snake. It is the biggest snake ever found.
Maximum length, in feet, of the modern world's largest
snakes, anacondas and pythons

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
A worthwhile Valentine's - Don't buy into it again
this year: the roses, the candlelight dinner and the
box of chocolates. Instead, turn Valentine's Day
into a holiday really worth celebrating. Make your
Valentine a friend who you've been neglecting - in
other words, finally follow through with hanging out,
People in relationships should especially consider
this. Just think of all the friends you haven't spent
time with since you met your sweetheart.
Throwing this porty? Let us know TheStotement umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Men who read Maxim struggle with body image
Men who look at sexy female models in provocative magazines like
Maxim experience more body-image problems than those who don't,
according to a study published in the journal Human Communication
Research by researchers at the University of Missouri - Columbia.
For the study, the researchers conducted three different experiments
with male undergraduate students. In the first, they asked 77 students
questions about body self-consciousness before and after they started
reading the magazines Maxim, FHM and Stuff. In the second experi-
ment, the researchers had some students examine layouts of female
models while others looked at pictures of fit males. Last, the researchers
divided men into two groups: one looked at female models, while the
other looked at pictures of their "average-looking" boyfriends.
In all three experiments, the researchers concluded that men who
looked at the magazineswere more self-conscious about their fitness and
body image, saying they didn't have a chance with the female models.
- BRIAN TENGEL

ls~

Source: CNN

/





r Adb . AM&

-_

I-

m

0

0

0

0

4B Th Mcign aiy- ededa, ebury11 009

Wensay erur 1,20S .TeMchgnDal . 511

magine coming home to a dozen bouquets of
flowers. They are so numerous that it was nec-
essary to use cups, tomato sauce jars and beer
bottles as makeshift vases. Then your lover tells you
a dirty secret - these flowers are, in fact, dumpster
flowers. And you fall even more in love.
These are the life and times - and treasures - of
a freegan.
The title of "queen diver" would seem to belong
to some pool high-dive champion. But in the case of
one campus co-op house, the title refers to Cat, the
house's top dumpster diver. I spoke with Cat in her
kitchen while she prepared dinner for her house-
mates. Well-stocked with grains and produce, the
kitchen centered around a wooden table where her
housemates arranged bouquets of flowers from the
previous night's diving trip. Cat and her housemates
asked that their full names and the name of their
co-op not be used in this article since dumpster div-
ing is illegal.
Regular diving trips are the main source of the
co-opers' freegan lifestyle. Freeganism, a play off of
veganism, is an anti-consumerist philosophy where
practitioners seek to minimize the use of resources
by limiting their reliance on commercial markets.
When it comes to food, this means a diet based largely
on homegrown produce and dumpster loot.
"Our culture is one that wastes a lot of things ... so
we've made a commitment to reduce our consump-
tion that benefits us and our community," Cat said.
At heart, freeganism is about environmentalism
above specific political or economic views. The defin-
ing rule of freeganism is to reduce one's consumption,
especially through diet. As Cat explains it, there are
too many problems with the current agricultural sys-
tem for her to endorse it with her money. Transporta-
tion and packaging adds greatly to the use of energy
and fossil fuels, while packaging contributes equally
to the size of our landfills. On top of that, traditional
farming practices deplete soil of its natural resources
by overplanting, and the lost minerals are replaced by
ecologically damaging petrochemical fertilizers.
It's true that there is a strong economic argument
against freeganism. Grocery shopping helps to sus-
tain the faltering economy, and some studies have
shown that the positive effects of other consumption
philosophies like "eating local" are uncertain. But it's
also true that all around Ann Arbor, items like gour-
met cheese and two-day-old sourdough bread is still
good to be eaten but won't be unless someone claims
it from a dumpster.
Many freegans, including Cat, are also practicing
vegans.Althoughshesaidsheisn'tagainsteatingmeat,
she doesn't agree with the conventional practices of
raising and slaughtering meat and the overconsump-
tion of meat in the U.S. Conventionally, animals like
cows are raised on grains in confined spaces. Vegans
and vegetarians often have qualms with this because
the practice uses excessive amounts of energy in the
production of grain and raises questions about ani-
mal health and rights and food safety.
When they have to buy food, freegans choose3 to
buy from local sources that preserve the soil, reduce
transportation and promote healthy animal-rearing
practices. But even if food has been shipped across
the country, they feel it's economically and environ-
mentally all right to dive for it after it has been dis-
carded.

If attending an event with free food, most freegans
won't accept a meal unless they know it's been con-
scientiously grown or produced. If they visita friend
who's prepared a meal from Meijer, though, freegans
are likely to indulge.
As our conversation came to aclose, Cat invited me
on my first diving trip: "I'll give you some gloves and
a head lamp and you can jump in with me." The date
was set for the following evening.
Before I left after the interview, a housemate
handed me avelvet red rose plucked fromthe house's
dumpster garden. Instead of the rose's usual roman-
tic suggestion, it was clear this flower expressed a
love for the environment. I walked home in high spir-
its, imagining what kind of souvenir I would find on
my trip.
Around midnight last Sunday, Cat and I recovered
several plastic milk crates from the snow in front of
the co-op and piled into her car with two other divers.
When we arrived at a local supermarket, we noticed
another car. "We've got competition," a housemate
noted.
While waiting for the store's employees to filter.
out, Cat explained diving etiquette. Since diving is
illegal and divers don't want to contact the police in
case of a dispute, they've developed their own deco-
rum to deal with other divers.
As the other car had been waiting longer, they had
first diving dibs. This means that they willbe allowed
to jump in first and will have first dibs over the spoils.
Still, as per freegan law, there is usuallyequal sharing
among the divers.
Secondly, neither car would drive near the dump-
ster until all employees had cleared out. If either
pounced while employees were still clearing out the
store, they would surely be kicked out. But it was also
a matter of respect, Cat explained. Although some
employees may have suspected why the two cars were
there, they had no intention of creating trouble for the
divers unless the looting occurred right in their pres-
ence. Finally, divers must always return the dump-
ster to the condition in which they found it, leaving
no mess or sign of disturbance for the storeowners to
deal with the next day.
After the last car exited and the other divers
jumped in, we made our move. Usingthe hole created
for the dumpster truck's forklift, Cat vaulted herself
into a wonderland of excess. Slowly, bags were lifted
through the hole and passed to those of us waiting
below.
That Cat submerged herself in a dumpster isn't
as filthy as it would seem. The trash bags she rifled
through were filled solely with packaged food items
that had just been picked off the shelves. Packaged
potatoes, netted citrus fruits and paper-wrapped
breads each filled their owngarbage bags. There were
bags of apples, oranges, limes, lettuce, plastic-boxed
strawberries, red currants, cookies and egg cartons
tainted only by some ice cream that had spilled.
Then, two entire garbage bags were devoted to
day-old bread. Another two or three bags to apples
and oranges and two bags to baby red potatoes that
were so heavy I nearly collapsed under the weight.
In one last bag were eight shrink-wrapped blocks of
expensive blue, cheddar and French Raclette cheeses.
The problem with these cheeses wasn't age - it was
only a slight misshapenness that made them unsuit-
able for the grocery's display.

Finally, it was my turn. I donned my headlight and
rubber gloves and took the forklift step into the gro-
cery abyss. I immediately noticed that it wasn't the
eggshell and coffee-grounds-littered receptacle I
imagined. It could almost, bizarrely, be described as
clean. It still stood its ground as a dumpster, though,
as a grimy bottom layer and accompanying odor
became more apparent with the opening and empty-
ing of subsequent bags. After a few minutes of sift-
ing, I decided my efforts would be better put towards
sorting and exited the dumpster.
Rumor has it that diving virgins will find either
chocolate or wine on their first trip. While this first-
timer didn't leave with either aphrodisiac, the four
trash bags full of flowers were a fine substitute. Each
bag contained roughly a dozen plastic-wrapped bou-
quets, which Cat and her housemates plan to distrib-
ute to other co-ops for Valentine's Day.
Since Cat is a strict vegan, she did not pick up the
few packages of Italian sausages that appeared in
some trash bags. She did, however, pick out the eggs
and blocks of cheese for her non-vegan roommates
who might have otherwise contributed to the mass
consumption of these products. .
This illustrates the major difference between veg-
ans and freegans: while neither group will pay for
meat, freegans will consume it if it's been saved from
a dumpster. "If it's going into the dumpster, I will
happily take some meat," said Cat's vegan housemate
Dani. On the other hand, a third roommate, Bran-
don, said that "dumpster meat would be a line that I
wouldn't cross." Either way, all housemates are care-
ful only to take animal products in the winter when
the cold weather will prevent the meat from going
bad.
Although some produce looked past its expiration
date, the vast majority of it lacked significant signs of
decay. According to Cat, there were a few reasons for
this - when supermarkets are overstocked or have a
new shipment of food, the excess is bagged and sent
to the dumpster. Brandon added that in the case of

packaged stock, if a jar of peanut butter leaks over
eleven other jars, the entire case is thrown out. Other
products had only just passed their sell-by date but
hadn't yet shown signs of rotting.
In addition to rules of etiquette, the co-op also has
fairly rigid sanitary practices. No loose or open items
like stray bananas or opened boxes of crackers are
brought back to the co-op and everything is sorted for
decay before being stored in the kitchen. The "when
in doubt, throw it out" rule always applies.
Cat needs to uphold these practices to meet her
own safety standards and those of her few room-
mates who are finicky about dumpster food. Because
of these practices, she has helped supply the co-op
with one-third to one-fourth of its weekly food sup-
ply and has never had a case of food poisoning.
The diving queen reasoned that one of the larg-
est deterrents for others is the natural association
of trash with contamination. But she has been able
to turn skeptics onto dumpster meals because of the
quality of food retrieved and the layers of protective
plastic wrapping.
As we left the grocery store with a trunk filled to
the brim, I was content that the company's trash had
been reduced by what seemed like almost a third -
there will be a lot less trash headed to the landfill this
week. The wheel has come full circle: both the free-
gans and their community benefited and that, as my
seventh grade biology teacher taught me, is mutual-
ism.-
My diving partners asked that I don't reveal the
store we visited so it will be safe for future foraging,
but there are a few tips for novice freegans or anyone
who would like to lower their grocery costs.
Look into a supermarket's delivery cycles. One
supermarket might get new shipments of flow-
ers on Fridays and produce on Mondays - mean-
ing that they'll likely be clearing their shelves in
preparation. This varies across supermarkets, so
you'll have to familiarize yourself with your local
See FREEGANS, Page 8B

- IV

For a photo and audio
slideshow of the dive, go
to michigandaily.com. i4


