A DAY IN MSA'S LIFE
U Will Grundler offers his take on what's wrong
with the Michigan Student Assembly. Hint: It has to
do with Groundhog Day. See Opinion, Page 4.

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, February 10, 2009

michigandaily.com

SUMMER IN ANN ARBOR
'U' expands
offerings'
for summer

As demand grows,
spring, summer
terms add classes
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Students stressed about fitting
in required classes to graduate
on time have a little less to worry
about. Twenty departments in
the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts have expanded their
course offerings for the spring and
summer terms.
Twenty-five new courses will
be available during the spring
term and 37 during the summer
term. Introductory courses that
have not been offered in more than
fouryears - includingBiology 172,
Chemistry 125, Communication
Studies 101 and Political Science
111 are now available this summer.

Students will also be able to fill
the first year writing requirement
by enrolling in English 125, Com-
parative Literature 122 or History
195, which are each being offered
during both terms.
Robert Megginson, associate
dean for LSA undergraduate and
graduate education, said one of
the reasons LSA is expanding the
course list is so students can grad-
uate on time.
"When I was an undergraduate
45 years ago, it was automatically
assumed everyone would finish
in four years," Megginson said.
"We know the students are having
more and more trouble doing that
for alot of reasons."
Megginson said one reason stu-
dents have difficulty graduating
in four years is because students
choose to minor in a concentra-
tion. When students need to take
more required classes for a minor,
See CLASSES, Page 3

KRISTA BOYD/Dail
People board an AATA bus last night at the corner of State Street and South University Avenue. The AATA has changed its policy regarding using MCards to board buses.
AATAaltersPCard policy

University students, ers, to swipe their cards through
an updated fare box on all fixed
faculty will have to route buses.
The change will take effect
swipe MCards when Feb. 16.
Currently, all University stu-
boarding city buses dents, staff and faculty members
who ride AATA fixed-route buses
By LARA ZADE simply have to present their valid
Daily StaffReporter yellow MCards to the driver on
their way to find a seat.
The days of quickly flashing According to Grant Winston,
your MCard to ride an Ann Arbor the associate director for cus-
bus will soon be gone. tomer service for the University's
To cut down on the use of Parking and Transportation Ser-
expired MCards, the Ann Arbor vices, the change was brought
Transportation Authority will about to assure the AATA that
require all pass holders, includ- riders are valid MCard holders.
ing current yellow MCard hold- In addition, the University

plans to use fare box data to com-
pile statistical information, like
ridership statistics.
The new fare boxes will only
collect the MCard's ID number
and expiration date.'No personal
data will be collected, according
to a press release from the AATA.
Since 2004, the University has
paid AATA approximately $1.8
million a year for eligible stu-
dents, faculty and staff to ride
AATA fixed route buses. How-
ever, some AATA bus drivers have
reported that passengers have
tried to board using outdated
white MCards to bypass the $1
fare.
University MCards expire

five years after the date they're
issued.
Winston said there hasn't been
a recent increase in passengers
trying to board AATA buses with
invalid MCards, but the Univer-
sity wants to ensure that AATA is
driving valid University riders.
"I don't think anyone would
say that it's a growing problem,"
Winston said. "We just want to
assure AATA that our riders are
legitimate."
Any MCard that can't be read
due to damage or expiration will
have to be replaced when the new
policy takes effect. Keeping this
in mind, AATA is allowing a one-
See BUSES, Page 3

SELLING CLASS NOTES
Note trading
raises concerns

HER BERmT H. DOW BUgLaDaIN Gr
N . Campus building evacuated after fire

Cl
ai

The
North
a smal
aroun
A s1

.asses cancelled building's motor control room was
the cause of the fire, Department of
fter a short in a Public Safety Spokeswoman Diane
Brown said.
transformer Though the fire stopped once the
electricity was disconnected, fire
By LINDY STEVENS crews worked for nearly an hour
Daily News Editor to clear smoke from the building,
Brown said.
Herbert H. Dow Building on Everyone inside the building
Ca'mpus was evacuated after was evacuated safely, and one Uni-
1 electrical fire was reported versity electrician sustained minor
d 11:20 a.m. today. injuries from the fire.
hort in a transformer in the Classes that meet in the Dow

building were canceled for the
remainder of the day. Brown said
the building could reopen as early
as tomorrow or later this week.
The building's heating and ven-
tilation systems - which are con-
nected to the motor control room
where the fire began - are current-
ly not working, which Brown said
is part of the reason the building is
still closed.
Electricians worked today to
restore power to the building.
Repairs to heating and ventilation

systems will continue through the
week, but Brown added that it's dif-
ficultto anticipate whatkind of prob-
lems repair crews will encounter.
"It's possible that (repairs) could
be done in stages so that parts of
the building could be occupied so
experiments could take place," she
said.
The Dow building houses labo-
ratories and classrooms for the
Department of Chemical Engineer-
ing and the Department of Materi-
als Science and Engineering.

Though not against
the rules, profs say
practice hinders
students' learning
By MALLORY JONES
For the Daily
Onling note sharing can be a
tempting alternative to 8 a.m.
classes and boring lectures, but
some University faculty members
have raised questions about the
academic integrity of using sites
that allow note swapping.
Websites like StudyBlue.com
offer University students free
access to notes and a chance to
make extra cash for uploading
their own course materials. Some
University professors say the sites
pose the potential for copyright
infringements and declining aca-
demic performances as fewer stu-

dents attend lecture.
Topreventstudents fromprofit-
ing by posting lecture notes, some
History professors copyright their
notes, said Kali Israel, an associate
professor and the associate chair
of the Department of History.
In an e-mail interview, Israel
said these measures have been
taken to prevent unauthorized
recording of lectures and "com-
mercial note taking."
"This becomes especially seri-
ous if the student supplying notes
is profiting," Israel said, citing
that the potential violation of eth-
ics is even greater if a student sup-
plies papers or class assignments
through the sites.
She said students who down-
load notes from the Internet may
be hurting their grades rather
than helping because it prevents
them from learning through the
note-taking process. Although the
sites mediate note sharing, Israel
See NOTES, Page 3

*CAMPUS EATERIES
'Bliss'-ful yogurt shop to soon join
packed South University market

EAT YOUR HEART OUT

Yogobliss owners
say store will appeal
to people looking
for a trendy treat
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
For the Daily
Frozen yogurt shops are grow-
ing increasingly popular across the
nation, from Los Angeles to New
York- and now on South Univer-
sity Avenue.
Mack Kim and Joseph Ann, two
Michigan natives, are in the inter-

mediate stages of opening Yogob-
liss at 1229 S. University Ave. The
store will offer frozen yogurt as a
healthy alternative to traditional
ice cream. -,
Kimsaid theideatoopenayogurt
shop began when his wife tried
Pinkberry - a trendy frozen yogurt
shop located in California and New
York - for the first time while the
couple was on vacation and loved
it. He said he now hopes to share a
similar treat with Ann Arbor.
After first trying to open a
satellite location for an already-
established yogurt franchise, Kim
decided to try "the next best thing"
and start a yogurt place of his own.

"The taste will be similar to Red
Mango," Kim said. He described
yogurt from Red Mango - anoth-
er frozen yogurt chain currently
located in nine states - as tarter
and creamier than Pinkberry
yogurt. He said that the taste will
also be different from the yogurts
from international chain TCBY
and the local caf, Amer's Medi-
terranean Deli.
He admits that the first time
some people taste Yogobliss,
"they'll think its kind of weird."
But don't give up on it just yet,
Kim said, calling Yogobliss's prod-
uct "an acquired taste."
See YOGURT, Page 3

Local chocolatier Nancy Biehn serves samples of some Valentine's Day treats to Tom Mooney at The Produce Station yesterday.


WEATHER HI: 53
TOMORROW LU032

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news(ivmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Why Alison Mantel is our athlete of the week.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS ...................................2 ARTS.................... . 5
Vol CXIX, No, 91 SUD O KU............... ......3 CLASSIFIEDS......................6
(2009The Michigan Daily OPINION ..........................4 SPORTS.. . . ......... 7
michigandaily.com" '


2 - Tuesday, February 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 401

2 - Tuesday, February 10, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Tower

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Explained Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
Satisfying students' cookie cravings

Fur someone who works
between 8:00 p.m. and 2:30
anm. every night, Kevin
Lemon seems like a pretty
chipper guy. Lemon works
as the assistant manager of
the insomnia Cookies store,
doling out rookies to hungry
University students from his
conveniently parked cookie
truck.
Given the store's odd hours,
Lemon says it draws a "col-
orful", clientele, on both the
w'eekdays and weekends alike.
"at really doesn't seem like
people discriminate a whole
lot," Lemon said. "You get
some stumubley people any
night of the week."
While the store's customers
are mostly students, Lemon
said that other restaurants'
delivery drivers frequent the

truck and call in their own
orders between deliveries.
"We get a lot of orders from
Jimmy John's," he said.
Lemon has operated the
insonmnia cookie truck in Ann
Arbor for a month, and so far,
he said working third shift is
the only drawback of the job.
He said the cookies he bakes
on a nightly basis have also
lost some of their appeal.
"They're not as good as they
used to be," Lemon said. "If
I eat more than two a night,
that's not good. I try not to
come to work hungry."
Though some students are
willing to trek across campus
in the name of snickerdoodle
and chocolate chip cookies,
Lemon said that as of now,
Insomnia cookies isn'tallowed
to sell baked goods on Univer-

sity property. He added, how-
ever, that an agreement is the
works to change that.
"We've started working
out a deal with U of M to use
their parking lots whenever
we want," Lemon said. "The
campus police don't care.
They haven't bothered us.
But the company has started
talking to U of M, so we'll
give them a portion of the
profits (to use the parking
lots)."
Regardless of his location,
though, since he has come to
canmpus, Lemon has helped
satisfy students' cravings on
their way to the library or
heading home from the bar.
"I mean, bow often do you
have the time to bake them
yourself?" Lemon said.
PHIL GUICHELAAR

KevnLeoos, assistat manager of the Insomnia Cookies staredole:
cokes t hungry University stadents 000 aghtly basis.
CRIME NOTES

4211 Maynard SL.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Ediser in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-105
grata@miehigandaily.com bugli@miehigandailyecom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Offie houars: Sun.-Thurs. 011a..32 am.
News Tips anw@mihigandaily.com
Corrections correiensgnichigandaiy.com
Letersltolhe Editolonteaily@mihigadailyacom
Photography Department photogamichigandaily.com
Arts Section artsaeg@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@rahchigandaily.cem
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
tlassified Sales casasified@michigandaily.om
Online Sales aonadsgmichigandaily.com
Pinance finance@michiganrdaily.om
EDITORIAL STAFF
Ctnley Ratkowiak MaagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jatob SMilOnitZ MnagngNens Editor smilovitz@michigasdaily.omn
JennaSkollr, KylesSwanson
RobertlSoane EditnrialPaesEnditor soave@nihigandaily.com
ASSOCITE EDTORIA PAGEEDITO S ily Barton, Bria,0n Flaert,ahelasVanider
Andy Reid ManagingSeorts Editorn reid@nichigandaily.om
SENOSRTS E DITRS Nsic0oueba,,uikeisesti,n Feldnan,oChri
ASSISANT S ORT EITRnS: yn rj, In nKaasn iKoher, hris Marose,
Alex Prspri,,CltRosenwig
David Wamick MaagiangrstEditor watnick@michigandailyom
SENIRARTnSEOR:Jamie nlock,randon Conradis,sWhitnsesPo
ASS ANsAS EITRS:Jsa Byer, Adrew Lani,nDavenRea,en Vsansagner
Zachary Mesnen and pheto@nihhsadailycen
Cif Render ManagingePhotoEditons
sSo:NIOHOOnnI:nSa idAlah, C,hanelonnHsburmg-Lothrisgen
ASSISTANsTPnOTO EDITRSanxOolins, Chris Dnoa,,k,0RobsMigrin, Sam ssons
Angela Chih and desiganhmihigaaily.omn
Maureen Stych ManagingeDesign Eitors
Jessita 'dosgenshian Magnsine Ediora voserchian,@michieandaily.om
Danid Menian Multiendi Editor meriars@michiandaily.om
KaherineMitchell CaoyChief mitchell@mhchieandaiiy.om
BUSINESS STAFF
Mithael Sthnntenbnen Dispay dvneising es Managnn
Nem,,,Chr,5istie Pillips
Ryan Businski ClassifiedSalesMnagnr
Cls~,sife aes ssistant Manager:Alsn Thos
Marissa Genber nloinSalesManagen
Ben English Productioan sign Mager
Menyl Hulleng LaysotManagnr
Vinian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceMnaers
ThMichganDaiy (ISSN0745-967)is pubsed Monayrou~hFrday dringterhfalland wn':
trmsa bysrudntrs a h nieriyorf Mign. On cpy isavailablenhmevofacargntoallreadtrs.
Addtioalcopesnay bepickduarheDaiy'officenfr2. Sbscrptins rfalltrm, statgiin
Snptembr iaU..ailamel110.Ointr trra nuary trough Aprilis $15,yearong Sepember
throughApril) vi$195.nvrsityaffiltaennsubjec t reducd sbsc~ritonrate.On-samoas
subscton~sfr falltrmorn$35. Subsriprvns mstbe rnpaid.Oh ician ralyisa mmberof
ThessciandPrnss an h sociatedCollegiatenPres

.!

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Woman spills hot Passerby smells Human subject Hip Hop dance
water, burns self pot, cops cannot research talk lessons

WHERE: h23 tOxford Rd.
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:30
WHAT: A wonman spilled hot
swarer on3 herself while she
seas coorkinsg, University Police
reported. She was taken to Uni-
versity Hospital for treatmsent.
Student falls in
bathroom,
hits head
WHERE: East Quadrangle
Rtesidence Hall
WHIEN: Susoday at about 2:410
WHAT: A moale studenat fell
in a bathroonm, University
Police reported. The mnan suf-
fered a head injury and was
takeno to University Hospital
forr treatmuent.

locate drugs
WHERE: 6O5 Oxford Rd.
WHEN: Sunday at aboust 11:105
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
snoelling marijuasna sm~oke,
University Police reported. A
msale subject was investigated,
but officers did not find moari-
juana when they arrived on the
Vending
machine looted
WHERE: Maso Hall
WHEN: Friday at about 10:511
WHAT: Items svere takesn
from a coin-operated sending
msachine, University Police
were reported. Thoe itenms were
taken between Feb. 3 at nossi
and Feb. 4 at 7 p.ms.

WHAT: Asn overview of the
historical events that led to
thse regulations governing
human subject research and
review of the Institutional
Review Board process for
health and behavior sciences.
jWHO: IRB Health & Blehav-
ioral Sciences
WHEN: Today frosm noon to
1 p.na.
WHERE: Roonm 171, Lorch
Hall
Not-for-profit
career Expo
WHAT: Meet with organi-
zations from a range nof not-
for-profit fields, including
advsscacy, social change and
conmmunsity service
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Tosday from 2 p.m. to
6 pmo.
WHERE: Michigan Union

WHAT: University Unions
Ats and Prograns is sponesor-
ing hip hop dance classes
givenby Dance 2X5, a Univer-
sity dance team for students
with any level of dance expe-
rience. The event is free to all
students.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.nm.
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
" An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Offi-
cials: International applica-
tions to the U' expected to
rise sharply) misattributed a
quotation in the nineteenth
paragraph. University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman
made the statement.
*Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

1The Dalai Lama, the spiri-
tual leader of Tibet has
joined Twitter, a muicro-
blogging service, The AFP
reported. His site, www.twit-
ter.com/ohhtdl, open for two
days, has attracted nearly
20,000 followers.
2Last time the Michigan
State men's basketball
team traveled to Ann
Arbor, on Feb. 2, 2007, the
Wolverines trounced the
Spartans fi7-56 in front of a
sold out crowd.
>>FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8
3 Two men, ages 37 and
44, were arrested in Salt
Lake City after robbing a
Family Dollar store, The Salt
Lake Tribune reported. The
two men stuffed merclaandise
into their pockets before being
confronted by an employee as
they were leaving. They were
arrested less than a block
away.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 10, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 10, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Obama says
stimulus vital to
avoid 'catastrophe'
President Barack Obama pressed
Congress Monday night to urgently
approve a massive economic recov-
ery bill, using the first prime-time
news conference of his presidency
to warn that a failure to act "could
turn a crisis into a catastrophe."
With the nation falling deeper
into a long and painful recession,
Obama defended his program
against Republican criticism that it
is loaded with pork-barrel spending
and will not create jobs.
"The plan is not perfect," the
president said, addressing the
nation from the East Room of the
White House. "No plan is. I can't
tell you for sure that everything in
this plan will work exactly as we
hope, but I can tell you with com-
plete confidence that a failure to
act will only deepen this crisis as
well as the pain felt by millions of
Americans."
WASHINGTON
Stimulus bill
narrowly survives
Senate test vote
An $838 billion economic stimu-
lus bill backed by the White House
narrowly advanced in the Senate
on Monday over strong Republican
opposition, and Democratic lead-
ers vowed to deliver the emergen-
cy legislation for President Barack
Obama's signature within a few
days.
The vote was 61-36, one more
than the 60 needed to move the
measure toward Senate passage
on Tuesday. That in turn, will set
the stage for possibly contentious
negotiations with the House on a
final compromise on legislation the
president says is desperately need-
ed to tackle the worst economic
crisis in more than ageneration.
The Senate vote occurred as
the Obama administration moved
ahead on another key component
of its economic recovery plan.
Officials said Treasury Secretary
Timothy Geithner would outline
rules on Tuesday for $350 billion in
bailout funds designed to help the
financial industry as well as hom-
eowners facing foreclosure.
DETROIT
GM's Lutz to retire
at end of the year
Bob Lutz, America's ultimate car
guy and the man credited with lead-
ing wild success at Chrysler in the
1990s and a near-complete overhaul
of General Motors Corp.'s vehicle
lineup, has decided to retire from
the business at the end of the year.
Lutz, 76, a former U.S. Marine
aviator who once crashed his per-
sonal helicopter at a Michigan air-
port, said in an interview with The

Associated Press on Monday that his
age and skills may not be compat-
ible with a new era of government
regulation of the industry, includ-
ing higher fuel economy and carbon
dioxide emission regulations.
"It's now a business environ-
ment that doesn't really play to my
greatest skills, which were perhaps
more in the intuitive, emotional
area with sort of a sense for what
the market would want," he said. "I
think we're entering an era where
what the market would want is
going to take to some extent a back
seat to what is going to be required
by government regulation."
*FORT DRUM, N.Y.
Military chief caps
extra troops to
Afghanistan at 30K
No more than an estimated
30,000 additional troops will be sent
to Afghanistan as the U.S. ramps up
forces there, the nation's top mili-
tary officer told soldiers Monday.
Joint Chiefs Chairman Adm.
Mike Mullen also called U.S. efforts
in Iraq a success, even though
"we're not done."
Mullen, speaking to fresh-faced
soldiers and war-weary military
wives, sought to boost morale and
sootheconcerns atthe Armybase that
has seen a constant revolving door of
troops sent to Iraq and Afghanistan
over the last eight years.
"I don't see us growing a force
well beyond the 20,000 to 30,000 for
Afghanistan - American soldiers,
sailors, airmen, Marines - beyond
that 30,000 or so," Mullen told
about 800 soldiers and specialists
gathered for a town hall meeting.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Journalist to discuss Middle East
At event tonight, entitled "Another Angle: Report- and Advocacy (IDEA) and the publications. Abu Toameh "has an
ing Conflict in the Middle East." Committee for Accuracy in Mid- important perspective to share,
Abu Toameh will Abu Toameh will share his per- dle East Reporting in America. regardless of the political cli-
.ah w sonal narrative of being an Israeli- Rachel Goldstein, chair of the mate," Goldstein said.
talk about his work Arab journalist during political American Movement for Israel, said Currently, Abu Toameh is a
tumult in the Middle East. He will she hopes that notjust those with a Jerusalem Post and U.S News and
By ELYANA TWIGGS discuss his experiences working vested interest in journalism will World Report correspondent for
For the Daily for both Israeli and Palestinian find the speech enlightening. the West Bank and Gaza areas. He
newspapers. "We hope that even people who previously served as a senior writ-
Usually, Khaled Abu Toameh Abu Toameh is expected to dis- are just interested in the Middle er for The Jerusalem Report and
reports for the Jerusalem Post and cuss the importance free sp'ech East in general, or what's been correspondent for Al-Fajr, a now-
U.S. News and World Report. But and a free press, especially in going on, especially regarding the defunct Palestinian publication.
today, Abu Toameh will report to his line of work. In the past, Abu Israeli and Palestinian conflict, Abu Toame studied at Hebrew
students in Ann Arbor, discussing Toameh has said he would write will feel welcome to come and University in Jerusalem and has
his experience as a journalist amid for any publication that will have get a different perspective on the produced numerous films about
conflict in the Middle East. him - regardless of the publica- issue," she said. Palestinians for the BBC.
Speaking tonight at 8 p.m. tion's political stance. Goldstein, an LSA junior, said Goldstein said that Abu Toameh
in the Vandenberg Room of the The event is a joint effort by the AMI invited Abu Toameh to speak has significant experience to share.
Michigan League, Abu Toameh American Movement for Israel, a because of his unique perspective "Now that Israel is kind of a
has traveled from his hometown pro-Israel campus group, Israel on the conflict, having reported 'buzzword,' he is especially time-
of Jerusalem to present a speech Initiating Dialogue, Education, for both Palestinian and Israeli ly," she said.



NOTES
From Page 1
added that it "doesn't necessarily
make it different than other forms
of unauthorized collaboration."
Esrold Nurse, assistant dean
of the Office of Student Academic
Affairs, said he has not considered
any policy regarding these web-
sites.
"We haven't considered it, which
is notto suggestthatwethinkthey're
allgood,butwejusthavenot,"Nurse
said. "This is all newtous."
Nurse said ifstudents are caught
uploading notes from copyrighted
lectures they could be brought up
YOGURT
From Page 1
Yogobliss will sell cream-based
yogurt in four flavors: original,
green tea, strawberry and mango.
To spruce up the snack, custom-
ers will also have 30 toppings from
which to choose. Kim said there
will most likely be 12 freshly cut
fruit toppings and 18 dry toppings.
Along with the four flavors of
yogurt, Kim and Ann plan to sell
gelato, shakes, smoothies, iced
coffee and the milk tea variety of
Bubble Tea.
Kim said the Yogobliss prod-
uct would also contain probiotics
which he said "are good for your
immune system and reduce your
chance for colon cancer."
A small original-flavored yogurt
is five ounces and just 90 calories per

on academic misconduct charges
or legally prosecuted.
LSA senior Kerri Sperling said
she started using StudyBlue.com at
the beginning of this school year.
"It's a really innovative way to
study because if you miss a class
you can just (download) the notes,"
Sperling said. "And also, for the
people that upload their own notes
it's kind of like you're getting a bet-
ter experience because it's enhanc-
ing your performance."
At 26 campuses across the coun-
try-includinghereattheUniversity
- StudyBlue.com has an incentives
program for students like Sperling
to share notes. For every file that is
uploaded or flashcard pack that is
serving, according to Kim, a medi-
um-sized yogurt is 8 ounces and a
large-sized yogurt is 12 ounces.
In an interview yesterday, Amer
Batish, owner of Amer's Mediterra-
neanDelisaid, "frozenyogurtisget-
tingmore and more popular because
people are health concerned."
Though Yogobliss means Batish
will have more competition, he sus-
pected there would be enough cus-
tomers to support both eateries.
"Healthy competition is good,"
Batish said.
Officials at Stucchi's, an Ann
Arbor go-to for homemade ice cream
and frozen yogurt, had a similar atti-
tude toward Yogobliss's opening.
Kate Bodden, the manager of
Stucchi's and an LSA sophomore
said that although Stucchi's might
lose some customers in the market
for frozen yogurt, "in terms of ice
cream, people have favorite flavors

madepublic, the student receives $1.
Additionally, for every hitthat a stu-t
dent's file or flashcard pack gets thatc
student 50 cents.
"You get paid every time some- i
one looks at your notes, so it's event
that much more of an incentive forZ
the quality of your notes to be good1
because more people will click onN
your file,"{Sperling said.
Ben Jedd, chief communications
officer for StudyBlue.com, said thei
site was first developed as a school 1
project in 2006 at the University of1
Wisconsin. It was then expandedt
to other campuses, including the1
University of Michigan in 2007. r
"The biggest thing about the
tool is that it was built for studentsN
and are notgoingto stop comingto
Stucchi's."
Kim said that in with its design,
Yogobliss will be decorated with
chic pod chairs and ghost chairs
that give off a futuristic vibe and
will seat around 20 people at a
time. The walls will be adorned
with edgy wall art and three LCD
televisions.
Kimsaidthathewantstocreate"a
place where people can hangout."
Kim, who attended Eastern
Michigan University, said he feels
close ties to Ann Arbor.
"Coming back to campus makes
me feel younger ... it makes you feel
like you're back in school," Kim said.
Though still in the works, Kim
said grand opening plans will most
likely include "50 percent off for
everything" on the first day and is
expected to take place in mid- to
late March of this year.

and it was built by students so
that's really had a great impact on
our user base," Jedd said.
The site has been the most pop-
ular at Big Ten schools including
the University of Wisconsin, the
University of Michigan, Michigan
State University, Penn State Uni-
versity and Ohio State University,
Jedd said.
"Large universities are where
it's really taking off, and I think a
big part of that is that those are the
places that have those large classes,
those 100 to 500 person lecture
halls, that study tools and notes
really do come in handy," Jedd said.
"So I would say the larger the uni-
versity, the more popular the site."
BUSES
From Page 1
month grace period to allow
University staff and students
to obtain a new MCard, if
necessary.
Beginning March 16, cards
that have expired or are
damaged will no longer be
accepted, and riders will be
required to pay the $1 fare .
when boarding.
In order to obtain a new
MCard, cardholders may go to
one of the MCard offices locat-
ed at Wolverine Tower, the
Student Activities Building,
Pierpont Commons, the Cen-
tral Campus Recreation Build-
ing or, for health system staff,
the Med Inn Building of the
University Medical Center.

CLASSES
From Page 1
it becomes harder to fit their classes
and other distribution require-
ments into schedules.
"Students have approached us
before about this," Megginson said.
"They would love to be able to take
courses during the summer that
would let them use the summer
as a way to compress the college
time that they have to be here, but
we haven't been offering enough
courses for them to choose from."
Megginson said another rea-
son students stay extra terms may
be because it's tough to sublet
12-month leases and apartments in
Ann Arbor during the summer.
"It can be that students may just
choose to be here because they
have the space rented already, and
they have to pay for it so that can be
some economic benefit to the stu-
dcist," he said.
JoAnn Peraino, LSA curriculum
and enrollment manager, said LSA
enrollment corresponds with nation-
al trends of students taking spring
and summer classes. There has been
a 9-percent increase since 2007 in
enrollment for a full load of classes in
the spring and summer terms at the
University, Peraino said.
"We're trying to meet the needs
we hear not just from our students
but from trends across the, coun-
try," she said.
In addition, Peraino said wait-
lists for prerequisite courses have
lengthened in the fall and winter
terms, which may cause delays in
completing concentrations.
"We're hoping - especially for
some of the big classes in fall and
winter that students just can't get
into because they fill up so fast -
that this will relieve some of that
pressure as well," she said.
LSA freshmanVictor Jonesplans
to stay during the spring and sum-
mer terms to take classes that will
fulfill his English major require-
ments. He said he's glad LSA is
offering a wider course selection.
"More class options is a good
thing because there's usually not
enough spring and summer class-
es to take, and it will probably get
more people to take them," he said.
LSA sophomore Molly Borman is
staying for spring term because she
needs the course credits in order to
graduate on time.
"A lot of my classes are only three
credits, and ifthey're only three cred-
its each, I don't have enough credits
to graduate in four years," she said.


- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROCES
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
In residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
FRANCE
May 18 - June 12, 2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Sat es the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Tuesday, Febr ry 17,5:0pm,Art & Architecture Bldg. Room
Wednes y, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making creivity an integral part of students' lives and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
oNwEARt&

Start Your Career
in Accounting.

Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA
for non-accounting majors:
. Earn two degrees in just 15 months.
. Complete a 3-month paid residency at a leading
accounting firm.
. Proven track record of 100% job placement.
Take the first step.
Visit us online or at an information session near you.
Learn more about the program and upcoming events

- a

at www.msamba.neu.edu.
617-373-3244
gspa@neu.edu
www.msamba.neu.edu

Northeastern
U N I V E R S I T Y



4 - Tuesday, February 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Beyond the spectrum
Tolerant campus community essential for LGBT students
Coming out in the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgen-
der community can be a difficult undertaking, but stu-
dents now have a new tool to help navigate through the
process. The University's Spectrum Center, which handles LGBT
affairs, recently announced the creation of a new student pro-
gram called Guidance, Perspective and Support. The GPS pro-
gram was launched a couple weeks ago and will provide students
with a more flexible support network for dealing with all the
issues that can arise when coming out. This new addition to'the
Spectrum Center's services sends a strong message of encour-
agement to individuals who might otherwise not have enough
support to come out. The Spectrum Center's efforts should be
complemented by a student community that shows support and
respect for students who come out.


Politics can't be any dirtier of a job
than the one I am already in."
- Stormy Daniels, adult film star, commenting on her plans to challenge
Sen. David Vitter (R - La.) for his U.S. Senate seat, as reported yesterday by CNN.

ELAINE MORTON I

E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU.

0

te'why rare
14 1heia'ivriywe requaired hIat t
o sadprrMsot toprint ShOtxildV'+ be
'tste~Avi.1Yi, extces~iveIf sdacero rlIa
'o.,nIormot ta$ v~e~r
cotsrsepiackS?
An ordinary day forMSA

Through the GPS program, LGBT stu-
dents can now receive mentorship ina more
flexible environment. GPS pairs up stu-
dents with other students who have already
come out - these mentors understand the
complex situations faced when it comes to
sexual identity. The program's coordina-
tors in the program match these mentors
with students who have similar back-
grounds and identities, helping to create a
supportive environment for those looking
to join the LGBT community. Unlike other
support programs that typically meet on a
weekly basis, this new program allows stu-
dents to plan meetings anytime during the
school year. The GPS program also allows
students to meet with mentors at locations
outside of the Spectrum Center so they can
more easily maintain their privacy.
And the Spectrum Center is the best
equipped campus organization to fill this
need. As an organization that serves the
LGBT community by providing compan-
ionship, comfort and advocating social
justice, the Spectrum Center is most able
to help students dealing with these issues
of their sexuality and gender identity. The
Center offers a multitude of services and

support resources in addition to the GPS
program, like the popular National Coming
Out Week. And it also ensures that weekly
support services are available to students
who wish to take part in them.
The GPS program was created to supple-
ment the existing mentorship programs on
campus, and it fills an important need. It's
important for individuals struggling with
their sexual or gender identity to be wel-
comed in the campus community. And it is
equally important that individuals know
that they will be supported as they come
out to their friends and family.
But the success of such efforts still rests
upon the entire campus population. Stu-
dents must work to make the University
atmosphere one of acceptance and toler-
ance for LGBT individuals. This includes
putting an endto discrimination,homopho-
bia and other backward attitudes that can
make being part of the LGBT community a
difficult experience.
It's up to everyone to ensure that campus
is a welcoming environment for individu-
als of all sexual and gender identities - and
that when these individuals come out, they
are greeted with approval and acceptance.

M eeting Minutes of the Michi- PRESIDENT: Ugh, cheesesteaks.
gan Student Assembly for DARRYL: Excuse me?
Feb.10, 2009: VICE PRESIDENT: Hi, Darryl. So
I. Call to Order. how is this relevant to other students?
7:42 p.m. Why should we care about this?
II. Roll Call. DARRYL: Well, I was getting to
8:16 p.m. (Four that. Plenty of students have cele-
members absent; " brated Groundhog Day all their lives.
one chair missing). It's a memorable and fun experience
Ill. Approval of which traces back to the 18th centu-
Agenda. ry, possibly even before that. So why
9:34 p.m. should the custom receive such little
PRESIDENT: I WILL publicity at the University?
move that we draft WANDA (Provost): Okay, but what
an agenda and GRUNDLER do you propose to do? And what does
then, after doing "provost" mean?
so, approve it. PRESIDENT: I believe when you
VICE PRESIDENT: Objection. I "provost" a person, you essentially
motion we use the agenda we pre- anger them. So it's an adjective.
viously drafted (motions to piece of DARRYL: I'm glad you brought
paper onfloor). that up. I was thinking the Univer-
PRESIDENT: Oh, there it is. (Bends sity could hold a Groundhog Day cel-
down) Does everyone approve it? All ebration every Feb. 2, perhaps on the
right, let's move on. Diag. Mary Sue Coleman would bring
IV. Approval of Previous Minutes. the groundhog out of a cage and see
RECORDER: Last week's meeting if he goes back in or not, and there
lasted 8 hours and 23 minutes. would be fundraising and games and
PRESIDENT: Everyone cool with all sorts of things.
that? Okay. Hey - two for two! RICK (Alum/football fan, Audi-
V. Guest Speaker. ence member): There won't be any
DARRYL* (Guest Speaker): Let me GROUNDHOGS on a WOLVERINE
start by thanking all of you at MSA campus! Go Blue!!
for your interest in what I have to say PRESIDENT: Hey! You over there!
tonight. I'll get right to the point: Last When I say, "Go," you say -
Monday, as most of you know, was DARRYL: Come on, cut it out! I'm
Groundhog Day. serious.
PRESIDENT: Um, what? JACKSON (Security Advisor):
DARRYL: It was last Monday. Look, son, I sympathize with you, I
PRESIDENT: Harold, did he say really do. But we're not going to allow
Groundhog Day? a groundhog anywhere NEAR Mary
VICE PRESIDENT: Let me check. Sue. It's just not safe: Not to mention,
Elaine, can you confirm that? * how could she demonstrate "diver-
RECORDER: Yes he did. It sity" if she was holding an oversized
occurred last Monday. rodent?
PRESIDENT: I see. Harold, why is PRESIDENT: Can't argue with
this on the agenda? that.Say,shouldn't this stufffallunder
VICE PRESIDENT: Darryl was a new Roman numeral? Elaine?
the only guest speaker applicant this RECORDER: Yes.
week. VI. Concerns.
PRESIDENT: Ah. Well, did he see GERTRUDE (PETA Activist/Vege-
his shadow? . table violator): Has anyone considered
VICE PRESIDENT: Who? Darryl? the trauma inflicted on these poor
DARRYL: Er - well, if I could con- creatures? They're taken from their
tinue with my proposal. As I was say- homes and forced to be part of a sick
ing, last Mondaywas GroundhogDay, ritual they cannot understand. And
but it didn't really feel like it on cam- for what? This is Michigan. There's
pus. I mean, there were no posters, always six more weeks of winter.
no one handing out flyers, no celebra- VICE PRESIDENT: I'm going to
tions, no nothing. Now, I come from have to disagree with most of the con-
Pennsylvania and - cerns expressed thus far. As many of

you know, the groundhog is related to
the squirrel in terms of evolutionary
history. Now, as a proud member of
the Squirrel Club, I think it would be
an excellent idea if we showcased -
PRESIDENT: You're a member of
the Squirrel Club?
The assembly that
,
won't recognize
Groundhog Day.
VICE PRESIDENT: Um, yeah.
Anyway, I think -
PRESIDENT: I motion the Vice
President resigns.
VICE PRESIDENT: Hey!
DARRYL: Stop it! All of you! What
are you going to do about my idea?
PRESIDENT:. Chill, Punxsutaw-
ney Phill Clearly myself aid Bushy
Tail over here -
VICE PRESIDENT: You say one
more word -
PRESIDENT:Andyou'llnibbleme?
As I was saying, there seem to be ide-
ological differences between the Vice
President and myself and they should
be resolved before we continue.
VICE PRESIDENT:.Why don't we
form two different parties?
DARRYL: If things will start to
change around here, I'm all for it.
PRESIDENT: Sounds fine to me.
Everyone approve? Hey, great! But
whatshould the other party be called?
Well, we'll get to it later. Anyway. Ho-
hum .... Hey, why don't we just show
a film that promotes GroundhogDay?
That way, everyone's happy, right?
VICE PRESIDENT: Oh, how about
Groundhog Day, the one with Bill
Murray! Darryl, is that okay?
DARRYL: I'm leaving.
PRESIDENT: Well, I guess that's
that. Time?
RECORDER: The time is 3:30 a.m.
PRESIDENT: All right! Faster than
last week.
VII. Adjourn.
*All names have been changed for
privacy.
- Will Grundler can be reached
at sailgull@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
LAURA VEITHI
Paving for internships

._5 After the Internship Fair rolled through the
University a few weeks ago, it seems that every
student is in "job search frenzy" mode, pursu-
ing that perfect internship for the upcoming
summer. But with keen competition and strict
requirements to obtain these increasingly elite
positions, it's becoming almost impossible
for many students to get them: Of course, you
could turn your luck around by following the
new internship trend: buying them.
According to "Do You Want an Internship?
It'll Cost You?" a Jan. 28 article published in
The Wall Street Journal, more and more par-
1ents are.paying for guaranteed internships for
their kids. One internship company, Univer-
sity of Dreams, will charge a family between
$5,000 to $9,500 for placement in an eight-
week internship in fields like sports marketing
and public relations. Other organizations, like
Brill Street & Co., will place a student in a paid
internship position in return for a percentage
of the student's paycheck. If that isn't shock-
ing enough, another company, Charitybuzz.
com, allows parents and students to bid online
on internships. Wonder how much they go for?
Well, they auctioned off a one-week internship
at a music production company for $12,000.
These examples are just a handful of programs
now available to students.
What is most troubling about this new prac-
tice is the possibility that it will widen the
separation between socioeconomic classes. As
stated in The Wall Street Journal article, this
I method may increase "the divide between the
haves and have-nots by giving students from
more affluent families an advantage." It may be
that only a small portion of the student popula-
tion participates in these programs. Neverthe-
less, students who come from better economic
backgrounds should not have the upperhand

when they go out into the job market just
because their families were willing and able to
pay a large sum for an internship.
With the economy in a slump and unemploy-
ment rates increasing on a daily basis, it is clear
that most families cannot afford this expense.
When families are tightening up on expendi-
tures, shelling out a large amount of money for
a guaranteed internship would most likely be
the first luxury to go. If this practice continues,
employers will lose students who are extreme-
ly qualified but cannot afford the payment.
Internships should be based on outstanding
credentials and academic success, not whether
or not you are economically fortunate.
Furthermore, if this method of employment
becomes popular and successful for one compa-
ny, this could increase the odds that other com-
panies will adopt a similar hiring procedure.
This would mean that additional students would
be ignored because they cannot afford the pro-
gram. Besides increasing the gap between socio-
economic classes, this practice could harmthese
companies because they become dependent
upon internship companies to do their work for
them. This could reduce the pool of talented
individuals working at these firms, because the
most capable and deserving candidates won't
necessarily be able to apply anymore.
Since when do companies insist on being
paid for hiring interns? Shouldn't it be the
other way around? Economic times are tough,
but that shouldn't result in having to pay third-
party companies for a job. Instead, expecting
interns to work without pay should be enough.
Clearly, there are many benefits to an intern-
ship, but parents shouldn't have to pay a price
for the lessons learned.
Laura Veith is an LSA sophomore.


SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU.

Spending necessary to stimulate week that said alu
Hale Bar prior to 
e in recession that the bar was 1
staying. We heard
soon be coming do
TO THE DAILY: About a hundr
In Sam van Kleef's Letter to the Editor (Federalstimulus give the team the
plan will only worsen the economy, 02/04/2009), he claims coaches came out
that the laissez-faire capitalism practiced in the Reagan and more friendly
Era prevented the 1981-1982 recession from worsening. the trip and show
While Reagan did slash funding for social programs, he way down to thei
increased spending on defense-industries so much that he and began shakini
ran up one of the largest deficits of any president that pre- Beilein came dow
ceded him. This led to the economic rise of the Sun Belt fusely thanking ev
and also pulled America out of the recession. supporter, I can't
Though Reagan claimed to hate government spending was for everybody
and deficits, his practices and those of his successor (Bush would write at th
Sr.), increased the national debt from $845 billion to $3.6 you go, Go Blue!"'
trillion between 1980 and 1992. While I don't agree with
how Reagan spent money throughout the 1980s, the bot- Michael Patton
tom line is that during hard economic times, spending Alum
stimulates the economy.
Eric Kumbier Stimulus
School ofEducation senior unnecessa
Basketball team's appreciation TO THE DAILY:
for traveling fans admirable Some items th
forgot to mention i

umni would try to gather at the Nathan
he start of the game. Little did we know
ocated in the hotel where the team was
rumors that the players and staff would
wnstairs to board the bus for the game.
ed of us decided to form two lines and
eir own "Victor's Walk." The assistant
first, and they could not have been nicer
. They repeatedly thanked us for making
'ing support. As the players made their
lobby, all had big smiles on their faces
g everyone's hand. Michigan coach John
n and slapped everyone five while pro-
veryone for coming. As an alum, fan and
tell you what an awesome feeling this
y there. I recall what my college adviser
e end of each of his e-mails: "Wherever
That certainly was the case here.
proposal consists of*
ry expenditures
t Valerie Bieberich and Choonboon Tan
n their support ofthe stimulus bill (A look
02/06/2009): $850 million for the never-
$600 million to buy cars for government
on for FBI salaries and an $87.7 billion no-
ailout to states. I suggest a more accurate
the Generational Theft Act of 2009.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansar, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

TO THE DAILY:
I've decided to share something really exceptional that
occurred in Storrs, Conn. on late Saturday afternoon. And
no, it didn't even happen at the game. Because we live in
New York City, my brother and I thought we would take a
trip to Connecticut and show our support for the Michigan
men's basketball team. We received an e-mail earlier in the

at the stimulus bill,
profitable Amtrak,
workers, $75 millic
strings-attached b
name for H.R.1-,

Jonathan Slemrod
LSA junior


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 10, 2009 - 5

A family divided
by music

mhere is no such thing as
a guilty pleasure." While
T carrying on a conversation
with avid music -
nerds, there is
approximately
an 82-percent
chance (I've
done the math)
that, at some
point in the
discussion, you JOSH
will hear them BAYER
blurt this mantra
or some variation of it (e.g. - Ben
Folds makes me feel good, and
there's nothing your hipster ass
can do about it).
And it's a mantra with teeth.
Music is an incredibly subjective
art form. It enters our ears and
mingles with the chemicals in our
brains and affects us all very dif-
ferently.
But if I truly believe this, then
how does the devil-horned phrase
"guilty pleasure" consistently
elbow its way into my psyche when
I'm simply trying to enjoy a song?
Is it the popular opinion of music
critics that implants itself into my
noggin, hindering me from enjoy-
ing an album with a sub-par score
on Metacritic.com? No, because
I'm a very counterculture-type
person (probably to a fault) and, if
anything, I take pleasure in going
against the grain.
The truth is, I know exactly
what is at the root of my Jewish
musical guilt, and it's not what
you would expect: my brother.
My younger, 16-year-old, still-
has-to-sneak-into-R-rated-movies
brother named Zach.
For whatever reason, if Zach
dislikes a certain artist/album/
guitar tone (he could write you
a five-page proof on why he's
anti-distortion), I have trouble
sitting back and soaking it in
without an image of his blue-eyed,
dimpled face popping into my
consciousness to challenge my
visceral reaction. And this self-
imposed stumbling block isn't just
restricted to music he has already
judged. Even if I'm listening to a
song he has never heard in his life,
an automated voice will switch on
in my head and ask me whether or
not Zach would approve.
Do I enjoy this silly compul-
sion? No. Do I think it's healthy?
Absolutely not. Am I fully aware
that I'm a micromanaging ball of
neurosis who can't even take a
piss without questioning its valid-
ity? Yes. Yes times infinity.
But even though I've dredged
this ridiculous guilt complex up
from my subconscious, looked it
in the eye and forced myself to
form my own music-related opin-
ions, the fact that I still have to
override this automatic impulse
can be pretty vexing. For me, the
process I have to go through to
guiltlessly enjoy a piece of music
that my brother has publicly
denounced is absolutely difficult.
It's pretty paradoxical, but I
have to actively fight against my
natural cognitive flow in order to
shape my own opinions on music.
Now, this fixation isn't com-
pletely arbitrary. It probably has
a good deal to do with the fact
that, while we're both drummers,
Zach has gone on to compose
music, record songs and play gigs
with his friends, while I've been
marooned at college without a
drum set or band. And even while
I was in high school, my "band"

and I never really evolved past
the "let's play an awesome jam"
phase. So I guess I feel a bit infe-
rior. Consequently, when it comes
to music, I really look up to him
and his Gestapo opinions.
And I don't use the word
Gestapo lightly; Zach is easily one
of the most strong-willed people I

know. The way he talks sometimes,
it's hard not to take his views as
the gospel. For instance, when he
was only a fourth grader, he swore
to vegetarianism in support of
animals' rights. He's a stubborn
guy. So when it comes to debating
music with him, the odds aren't in
my favor.
About a week ago, I told him
about this voice in my head - about
how I have a hard time letting
myself enjoy music that hasn't been
graced with his stamp of approval.
And this is all he said: "That's not
good." As simple as his response
was, it made me feel so fuckingstu-
pid; why in Michael Jackson's name
I have an external
conscience.
should it matter to me whether or
not my brother endorses Wilco? (He
doesn't, FYI.) If I like something,
I need to go ahead and like it, as
tautological as that sounds. Because
life's too short for guilty pleasures.
And because I really like Wilco.
Bayer is looking for an
imaginary friend to give him
moral support. Recommend one
for him at jrbayer@umich.edu

A witty tabloid triumph
Allen's newest new musical theme for Allen. The anti-Bush songs. Vocally, however, / her life is already over / There's
ska and reggae-infused pop rock the track spins out of control as nothing to do and there's nothing
proves why she's of Alright, Still is replaced by a its unremitting cursing is terribly to say." The lyrics might sound self-
synth-heavy electronic feel with a overdone and proves unnecessary deprecating, but they act as a broad
famous to begin with few traces of traditional guitar and in getting the point across. metaphor for the album as a whole.
drums. Despite its controversial subject It's Not Me, It's You is a statement
By DAVID RIVA Despite her newfound affinity matter, the album has a certain to Allen's critics and agift toher fans
Daily Arts Writer for electro-pop, Allen still finds a sobriety about it. On "22" Allen con- displayed through snarky humor
way to remain musically creative. veys an instant dose of nostalgia as and sadistic statements laid across
Lily Allen has something to "Not Fair" sounds like the theme she recounts her biography from the well-produced pop songs. Her abil-
prove. Her debut album, 2006's song for a 21st century spaghetti perspective of media reporters who ity to deliver undeniably clever cou-
Alright, Still, was western. The outlaw in this tale is are desperate to painther career as a plets with a deliciously British tone
rightfully lauded criticized for his inability to satisfy failure. Allen laments by saying "It's makes it clear that a sophomore
as a piece of Brit- his partner inbed. The perfect pro- sad but it's true how society says slump was never an option.

ish pop gold. But LilyAlen
since its release,
Allen hasn't It's Not Me,
been able to keep It's You
herself out of Capitol
the public eye.
Tabloids have
documented her relationships and
substance abuse, and her frequent
call-outs on her MySpace blog have
fueled celebrity feuds. It's Not Me,
It's You serves as a much-needed
reminder of the real reason Allen
gets all this attention: She is a fabu-
lous pop songwriter.
on her latest disc, the always
opinionated Allen takes shots at
society, individuals and evenherself
and her celebrity status. The first
single "The Fear" is an assault on
materialistic culture, placing clev-
er couplets like "I am a weapon of
massive consumption / and it's not
my fault / It's how I'm programmed
to function" against a refreshingly
weightless soundscape. The song's
lush electro-pop vibe introduces a

duction and Allen's droll lyrical
presentation make it one of the
most innovative and enjoyable
songs in Allen's repertoire.
Another clever musical turn
takes place as "Never Gonna
Happen" opens with a waltzy
accordion, easing its way into
an irresistible chorus lined with
blissful xylophone plinks.
Presented in a more conven-
tional pop mold, "I Could Say"
is a stereotypical love song with
drum machine and lush piano,
which creates a bubblegummy
feel. The novelty of this style,
which is pervasive on the album,
gets tired at points. But Allen's
consistent cleverness keeps
things afloat.
Allen holds nothing back on
"Fuck You," a direct address to
the George W. Bush. Lyrically,
it might be the most accurately
conveyed and clearly stated pro-
test song in years. It's the perfect
bookend to a decade of worthy


Thursday, February 12h
International Center, Rm 9
Congrats U-M! A Top Peace Corps College
800.424.8580 |1www.peacecorps.gov
-" - "~is -3 ,if r%41" -~ - n

STILL NOT
SATISFIED?
Check online for more
content at
michigandaily.com/section/
arts


r


6- Tuesday, February 10, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING SPACE AT corner of Divi-
sion/Huron. Easy access, paved lot -
plowed/salted. $135/mo. 994-8120.
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
" -
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. eame room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarhorapartments.net
!!AVAIL. FALL '09 4 bdrm house.
near B-school ($2000/mo.)
734.223.7777.
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!NEW FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE!!
Newly built, 4-bdrm3 bath. hse. Ctr.
a/c, dwshr., ldry., deck, garage, free
prkg. Close to medical school! 1318
Jones 734-995-8695 $1990/mo.
!2 BDRMS - Great campus locations!
1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917 Packard,
848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Walnut. All
furnished, include heat, water, and park-
ing, some with free wireless!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!3 BEDROOM Apts!
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
6-Bedroom House!
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 -8 people. Close to
Downtown, Zingerman's & summer'
farm market! (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
.MAY - May 2 bedroom!
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
Apartments Available!

Now unti tey re gone, get a pizza
coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenancel! .
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, M I 48104
734-761-2680
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break atnd get thsese new rates.
Incredible locution! 1 & 2 hedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Chturchs St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnisled/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free seat and waler, no
CALCpets, no smoking.
GALC&IManagetment, LLC-usk
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furtnished, loBs of closet
space. garage pkg, HO Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.unnarborapartenlunel
AVAILABLE FALL 2009
7 bdrm. 321 Linden, 2 bth, 6 prkg.
spots, wshridryer,dwshr/disposal, cets-
tral heat/AC $3200 linden52t me.com
5 bdrm. 525 Linden, 2 atl., 4 prkg.
spots, wshr/dryer, dwshsr/disposul, cen-
tral heat/AC $2800 lindcn525(@mc.com
Contact Jonah Copi 415 786 8200.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mi. walk to capus. 3 full
baths. New kitclen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40' flat screen v, and ne-
net. $300/to. 734-321-102k .
AVAIL. MAY - 5 bdr . duple. 1114
Prospect. Lg. drms., todern kitcls.,
central A/C. Fre dry. $2650+t sil.
734-665-2723. sl ahtiger(e hott)i1.con
IIMMEDIATE & FALLI
OCCUPANCY

*the*f
0waed ad O~at
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734741 9300
www.antnarborapartments.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $189
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
() on Brand New (!) partmnents featur-
ing: 6 Bedrootms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, I & 2 Bedrooms!
Furmished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
Studio & I
Rdrr. Un its
Tower Plaza Condominium
Cal Bnam1omsic
734-663-1530
2 BDRM., UPPER half of house with
free washer/dryer, separate entrance,
A/C, lots of closet space, extra storage
in basement, small backyard, off street
parking, close to campus and bus lines.
Some pets allowed. 775/mo + utilities.
Available early March, Call Mike 734-
646-5771.
FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrm. Hlouse
$2400!!! On Central Campus, 3 bath,
Furn., free Idry, prkg, 734-786-0249.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.cmpusrealty.com
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Bols fully furnised, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail 734 475 2577
WilsonWhite

PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swim.m.nn .nn. Pat .fr..ndl.i


3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1200/Month
1120 S. Forest

CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com .
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
inc. Baic., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengacomcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartnents.net
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies.
344 S. Division
I Bedrooms:
520 Packard.
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 5. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
721 S. Forest
1320 5.University
411 111gb
819"Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
( At most locations)
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the
Bost Central Campus DEALS!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This will not last long, when they're
gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available Fall
09. 2 baths, hardwood floor, Free laun-
dry and parking. Near Yost Arena
$2000 call: 734-717-6913.

I Copi Properties
734-663-5609
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
MAY LEASESAVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to$500 on select 2 bedrooms
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdnn.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ m.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300,
www.annarborapartments.net
6 BEDROOM, 2 blocks from Business
School, I111 Prospect, Sept-Sept,
$2,400/mo., 8 mo. lease May-Sept
$2,000/mo. very nice, 614-395-8104.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3400 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Ker town 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND aps.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-62-4446
lnfo@iaapropertie.com

2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postreatyproperti es.co m
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realy
734-663-8989. Oldtown realty.net
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus umil. 734-996-1991.
1 BDRM APT. avail. for sublet. Free
heat, water, parking. 535 Packard.
734-973-7225.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 7419657.
BIG HSE: 5 lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free Idry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
1 BDRM, & EFE APTS
450-$651
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwh itemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall.Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath,, 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989.,Oldtownrealty.net
**AVAIL. FALL '09.3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldownrealty.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. -
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

 and aLaun dry.Great location: 1320 S. University
Leases for May and Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Septem ber Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms.
Call Today!.
www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-5620 (734) 761-8000 or primesh.com
RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Sourpuss in 39 Second 56 Doled (out)
1 No.-crunching Geico ads Amendment 57 39-Down et al.
pros 6 Like much ofnthe advocacygp. 58 Tennis starfor
5 Unruffled Southwest 43 Get the wrong whom a stadium
9 Agreed (with) 7 Dryer screen signalsfrom is named
14 911 request accumulation 44 Eighth ofaa fluid 59 Greek salad
15 Diva's number 8 Tricksand such ounce topper
16 Soap whose first 9 Wager apart from 45 Retirement fund 60 Former Fed head
slogan was"It the main action 46 Alien-seeking Greenspan
floats" 10 Burly Burl gp. 61 Milhouse, to Bart
17 Befuddled 11 Announcer Pardo 50 Fixed, as a fight 62 Actress
18 Actor Rhames 12 Hesitant 53 Kind of moth MacGraw
19 Like heavy fog speaker's 55 Tropical fruit 63 Heir, often
20 Wintertraction insertions ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
aids 13 Salon stock
23 Hold in high 21Rye server O M A R A C T U P S H A D
regard 22 Deceptive ploy CON E P HAS E H O N E
24 Wrigley Field 25 Glove wearer H O K E Y POKEY E I N E
player 26 Place for a SNAKE P E D O M E T E R
25 Caddie's harden 25-Dowmn
28 Reduce 27 Prepare tohit the A S S T 0 N Y
drastically road R E H A S H P L E D T A P
31 Madridtitle 29 Wound reminder A D A P T A B L E S C O R E
33Hardy'n"_riFrom 30Georgetown BI N S G R N A NT L I M P
the Madding athletes I N KED I N DICA T ES
Crowd" 32'60s-'70s theater, D A Y A I M S L A D Y D I
36 Annual payments briefly P A R T O E R
38 Screen image 33 Unconvincing S C A R E C R O W O N E U P
40 Voice vote call 34 Penn or Pitt
41 List of options 35Anchors in the K E N O H U R L Y B U R L Y
42 Down ur soil I R K S EMCEE L I A R
destinations 37 Lo __::noodle STYE S PATS L E N O
47 Knock dish xwordeditor@aol.com 02/10/9
48 Bombast
49 Scornful look 1
s1 Manp mosv ma15m1
52 Need soe
support 17 1e 19
54 Mark of disgrace
58 Surplus store 2 21 22
oufit 23 24 2s 2s 27
81 Old hat
64 "_ Eterno": 2004 23 29 a 31 32
documentary 33 34 36 37
65 Hoods' weapons
66 Hello in Hilo3
67 Dateless purty a2 43 4t 46 47
attendee
68 Noteodd atall at 4 so
69 Uke standard
loose-leaf sheets s1 52 s3 s4 ss 58 57
70 Yin's counterpart ,a 6 93
71 June honorees
81 62 63 84 8s
DOWN
1 Go after 6 67 68
2 Orkin victims
3 Pribilof Islands 7 71
native
4 Black suit y David W. Cromer 02/10/09
(e)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

11 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED IN
UNIT'
Upscale 5 bedroom
Iai tments (D61 1
Church! T-eg are
n ewlt. c0setrt te5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
arartments, w/t/J a//
f/r. ft .st n r/u resat .sf
arC7enit/ c", -i 1
wa s1er and urge r in
unit!

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one I
Rates: $4.30 per line forthe/first iss
additional consecutive issue. " Frequ
Contact our staff for details * Studen
ads are placed in person with a valid
business ads only) n All ads must be
have been established " We accept'
Discover, cash, or check " For Class
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days
2 lines 8.60 12.90
3 lines 1290 19.35
4 lines 17.20 25.80

businesaday prior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
ue and $2.15 per linefor each 020 - For Sale
sency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
its may receive a 25% discount when 030- Automotise
student ID (non-organizational, non-
040 - Computers
prepaid unless prior billing privileges
Visa, Mastercard, American Express, 05- Furnture
ified Display advertising, please call one 050 -Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
39.40 - 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
9ed by TMD wil be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
ason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
nd not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125 - Music
only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of pubcation.
e consecutive insertions An ad maybe extended at a 130 - Roommates
0 am on originalyscheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
dlne, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
ng and approval, We do not publish advertisements for 150 - Personal
es the right to request samples of mail order items Orior t 160 - Pets

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviation
TMD for failure to publish an advertisement f
shall be limited to publishing in a subsequen
wil be responsible for classified advertiseme
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rate
consecutive rate if requested and paid in ful
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publca
been pubished. Refusal: All ads are subje
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMI
accepting advertising.

0

or any re
t issue a
:nt errors
es nes ar
by 11:3
ation dead
ct to editi
D reserve

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
the michigan daily

Tuesday, February 10, 2009 - 7

Puls steps up after
early foul trouble

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
servics

help wanted
0 90
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pee-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.

WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
beingda mysteryashopper. No expert-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
U OF M Student Lab Assistant. Age-
ing Research. Mouse husbandry and
data collection. Holiday and weekend
availability needed. 10-15 hr/wk.
Contact Maggie 936-2164.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 mi.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
ate to et the enperience you need!
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
Don'twant to be
a ummer in the Summer?
FIND A JOB
Check oat the great
opportunities available atn the
Semmer Employment Page.
Phlisheg a y F
The Michigan Daily en Feh 12

By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
STORRS, Conn. -Withless than
two minutes left in the first half of
Saturday's 69-61 loss at Connecti-
cut, an unlikely player threw off his
warmup jersey and jogged onto the
floor: forward Eric Puls.
The redshirt freshman is Michi-
gan men's bas- MSU at
ketball coach
John Beilein's Michigan
last option on the Matchup:
bench and had MSU 19-4;
played just17 min- Michigan 15-9
utes prior to the When: 7 P.M.
Wolverines' trip
to Connecticut. Where:
o su Crisler Arena
Pots should
have never been TV: ESPN
in the game, but Live Blog:
Beilein had no http://the-
choice. He was game.blogs.
forced to throw in michigandaily.
the skinny, 6-foot- cow
10 Puls against the top-ranked
Huskies because the two Michigan
junior forwards, Zack Gibson
and DeShawn Sims, had already
picked up two fouls apiece.
It was the first time Puls
played anything other than gar-
bage minutes all year.
"I was ready to go," Puls said
after the game. "I knew Zack and
Peedi (Sims) had a couple fouls
on them. I thought we might
need me to come off the bench
and put in a few minutes."
Puls is just one of three Mich-
igan players taller than 6-foot-7.
Connecticut has seven.
Puls's assignment was to
box out Connecticut's mam-
moth 7-foot-3 center, Hasheem
Thabeet, prompting his team-
mates to yell, "Get 'em, E."
Puls stood his own and
wasn't pushed around, and even
recorded a block in the game.
And Puls wasn't the only Wol-
verine to play because of foul
trouble. Despite Beilein's insis-
tence that he wants to play just
an eight-manlineup, every player
except sophomore guard Kelvin
Grady saw the floor Saturday.
"One through 14, everyone's
ready," fifth-year senior guard
David Merritt said. "If (Beilein)
calls our namve, we're going. If
he doesn't call our name, we're
cheering on our teammates."
Foul trouble not only forced
Beilein to use his bench, but it
also allowed the Huskies to rack
up easy points from the line.
Connecticut was 19-of-25
from the charity strip while the

Wolverines were just 8-of-12.
"It's tough because they're get-
ting free shots at the basket and no
time is going off," fifth-year senior
guard C.J. Lee said. "Give theta
credit. They were making it tough
on defense. "
Many of Michigan's fouls came
from increased physical toughness
on defense. The Wolverines run a
four-guard system and gave up a lot
of size to the Huskies. Smallerplay-
ers picked up fouls trying to stop
the bigger opponents.
"We weren't going to be out-
toughed," Lee said. "We were prob-
ably going to be out-athleticized
today. We weren't going to be out-
scrapped for rebounds."
The players will need that same
mantrafor tonight's contest against
No. 9 Michigan State.
The Spartans' fast-paced tempo
is similar to Connecticut's, and
they have a roster with seven play-
ers that are 6-foot-8 or taller.
But they will most likely be with-
out their most prolific forward, Ray-

CHANEL VON HABSBURG-LOTH RINGEN/Daily
Forward Zack Gibson's three fouls gave bench players the opportunity to shine.
mar Morgan, who Michigan State
coach Tom Izzo gave a three-per- For coverage of
cent chance of playing because of a the Michigan ice
naggingcase of mononucleosis.
Regardless of whether Morgan Chcey and women's
plays, the small Michigan lineup basketball teams, visit
will again need to play tough if it http://WWW.michigandaily.com
hopes to knock off the Spartans.

I NTER NAI TON A L STU N U S DE O ISOR SOCIAL . EQ UA L ITY
A NDSO C IA L IST E QU A L T Y P A RTY P UB L IC M E E T INGS
The World Economic Crisis
C' the Return of History
Twenty years ago, with
the dissoutionsofth~e I j -
Stastregmes a nopo
Eastern Europe and
the Soviet Union, a
political pundits and
academics hastened n"i f
to proclaim 'the end E END
at histor. The stnckOPHS R
marketboom of the Fn H ISMY
next fifteen years was q "CAPITAL$M
the capstone in the TltUMPHANT
supposed triumph
of free marketo
capitalism.Ae. 0
all, we nero tolu,
socialism was dead.
With the Crash of
2008, these illusions
have bee dealt a YOU WERE SuPPOSED To E WRITTEN OUT OF THIS PLAYA
stunning blow.6A
giant question mark
has been placed over the very viability of the world
capitalist system. The world is entering the deepest
economic depression since the 1930s-with all the
attendant social and political implications. History Public Meeting
has returned.
While politicians and the media have been forced Thursday, February 12- 7 PM
to ackhowledge the depth of the crisis, nowhere is niversity ot Michigan
there any real explanation of what has caused this Michigan League
precipitous collapse. Nor is there any suggestion that Michigan Room
the present crisis-more severe and systemic than
that which brought down the Soviet Union-spells For more information:
the death of capitalism. isse@umich.edu
At this meeting, David North, national chairman of Read the World Socialist Web Site
the Socialist Equality Party and chairman of the www.wsws.org
editorial board of the World Socialist Web Site, will
explain the historical origins and political implications
oftthe capitalist crisis.

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaing priceless sales experience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-based salary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please emaildaityclassifed@gmait.com,
call 7341 704-0557, oe stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!

Government
Career Fair

Today!
2-6 pm at The Michigan Union
- Meet with 10+ state and federal agencies
- Discuss internship and full-time positions
" Register on-site the day of the event
" For a list of organizations scheduled
to attend visit: careercenter.umich.edu

Not-for-Profit
Career Expo
Today!
2-6 pm at The Michigan Union
" Explore not-for-profit career paths
" Discuss interriship and full-time positions
" Learn about volunteer opportunities
* Discover ways to stay involved in
community service
" Visit our website for a list of organizations
scheduled to attend

For Wednesday, Feb. It, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
Interruptions at work are almost
inevitable, especially in areas related to
electronics, computer technology, avia-
tion, radio waves and electricity. Staff
shortages could make things even
worse!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Surprise flirtations might be exciting
today. Parents must be extra vigilant of
their children, because today is an acci-
dent-prone day for the kids.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Family members might be rebellious
today. Alternatively, unexpected com-
pany could drop by. Something suddenly
goes sideways at home! Be prepared to
go with the flow.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
This is an accident-prone day for your
sign. Take extra care when walking, jog-
ging or driving. In the same vein, think
before you speak. Slow down in what-
ever you say or do.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Keep track of your money today. You
might find money; you might lose
money. Make friends with your bank
account. Impulse spending is likely.
(Keep your receipts.)
VIRGO -
(Aug. 23to Sept. 22)
You feel independent and restless
today. In fact, you might feel rebellious!
Perhaps this is why partners and close
friends are very unpredictable today.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You're not sure which way to jump
today. You sense that the winds of
change are in the air. Because of this,
you feel restless, nervous and edgy.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
A friend might do something com-
pletely unpredictable today.
Alternatively, you might meet someone
new who is rather bizarre or eccentric.
(Not a boring day!)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Some aspect of your private life might
suddenly be made public today. (You
might be just as surprised as everyone
else.) Be careful. Don't put yourself into
a position where you have to explain
things later. Who needs this? You don't!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
travel plans might be canceled or
delayed today. Similarly, educational
matters are suddenly unstable or puz-
zling. Things will return to a normal
level very soon.
AQ UARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Something about your partner's
income or the income from other sources
that you've been receiving is now unpre-
dictable. You might have to depend more
upon yourself in the immediate future.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Be prepared for a few surprisesitoday,
especially when talking to members of
the public, important clients or partners
and friends. Everyone is unpredictable
and rebellious! Sheesh! What gives?
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
have a flair for improving the lives of
those around you. You know how to ben-
efit others. In part, this is because you
like things to be comfortable and work
efficiently. You enjoy the pleasures of
life, and love to explore things to the
maximum. Relationships are favored
this year; it's a fun, social year!
Birthdate of: JennifersAniston, actress;
Mike Richards, hockey player; Kelly
Slater surfer.

For more information contact us at:
3200 SAB- (734)764-7460 - www.careercenter.umich.edu

For more information contact us at
3200 SAB (734)764-7460 www.careercenter.umich.edu

Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
I N G lASSES
'1l" and...more c lasses?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded its
2009 spring/summer course offerings.

Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses.

$A



A

a.


8 - Tuesday, February 10, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Lt

There is no disagreement that we
need action by our government,
a recovery plan that will help to
jumpstart the economy.
-PRESIDENT-ELECT BARACK OBAMA, JANUARY 9, 2009
With all due reSpect
. President, that is not true.
Notwithstanding reports that all economists are now Keynesians and that we all support a big increase in the burden of
government, we the undersigned do not believe that more government spending is a way to improve economic performance.
More government spending by Hoover and Roosevelt did not pull the United States economy out of the Great Depression in
the 1930s. More government spending did not solve Japan's "lost decade" in the 1990s. As such, it is a triumph of hope over
experience to believe that more government spending will help the U.S. today. To improve the economy, policymakers should
focus on reforms that remove impediments to work, saving, investment and production. Lower tax rates and a reduction in the
burden of government are the best ways of using fiscal policy to boost growth.

BURTON ABRAMS, Univ. of Delaware
DOUGLAS ADIE, Ohio University
LEE ADKINS, Oklahoma State University
WILLIAM ALBRECHT, Univ. of Iowa
RYAN AMACHER, Univ. of exasatArlington
J.J. ARIAS, Georgia College & State University
HOWARD BAETJER, JR., Towson University
CHARLES BAIRD, California State University, East Bay
STACIE BECK, Univ. of Delaware
DON BELLANTE, Univ of South Florida
JAMES BENNETT, GeorgeMason University
BRUCE BENSON, Florida State University
SANJAI BHAGAT, Univ of Colorado at Boulder
MARK BILS, Univ. of Rochester
ALBERTO BISIN, New York University
WALTER BLOCK, Loyola University New Orleans
CECIL BOHANON, Ball State University
MICHELE BOLDRIN, Washington University in St. Louis
DONALD BOOTm, Chapman University
MICHAEL BORDO, Rutgers University
SAMUEL BOSTAPH, Univ. of Dallas
DONALD BOUDREAUX, George Mason University
SCOTT BRADFORD, Brigham Young University
GENEVIEVE BRIAND, Eastem Washington University
IVAN BRICK, Rutgers University
GEORGE BROWER, Moravian College
PHILLIP BRYSON, Brigham Young University
JAMES BUCHANAN, Nobel laueate
RICHARD BURDEKIN, Claremont McKenna College
RICHARD BURKHAUSER, Cornell University
EDWINT. BURTON, Univ. of Virginia
JIM BUTKIEWICz, Univ. of Delaware
HENRY BUTLER, Northwestern University
WILLIAM BunS, 7iinity College
PETER CALCAGNO, College of Charleston
BRYAN CAPLAN, George Mason University
ART CARDEN, Rhodes College
JAMES CARDON, Brigham Young University
DUSTIN CHAMBERS, Salisbury University
EMILY CHAMI.EE-WRIGHT, Beloit College
V.V. CH ARI, Univ. of Minnesota
BARRY CHISWICK, Univ. of Illinoisoat Chicago
LAWRENCE CIMA,John Carroll University
J.R. CLARK, Univ. of Tennessee at Chattanooga
GIAN LUCA CLEMENTI, New York University
R. MORIS COATS, Nicholls State University
JOvN COCHRAN, Metropolitan State College at Denver
JOHN COCHRANE, Univ. of Chicogo
JOHN COGAN, Hoover Institution, Stanford University
LLOYD COVEN, George Mason University
JOHN COLEMAN, Duke University
BOYD COLLIER, Itrleton State University
ROBERT COLLINGE, Univ. of Texas at San Antonio
PETER COLWELL, Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
MICHAEL CONNOLLY, Univ. of Miami
LEE COPPOCK, Univ. of Virginia
MAtoO CRUCINI, Vanderbilt University
CHISTOPHER CUL, Univ. of Chicago
KIRBY CUNDIF, Northeastern State University
ANTONY DAVIES, Duquesne University
JOHN DAWSON, Appalachian State University
A. EDWARD DAY, Univ. of Texasat Dallaso
CLARENCE DEITSCvI, Ball State University

ALLAN DESERPA, Arizona State Univetity
WILLIAM DEWALD, Ohio State University
ARTtUR DIAMOND, JR., Univ of Nebaska at Omaha
JOHN DOBRA, Univ. of Nevada, Reno
JAMES DOR, Towson University
CHRISTOPHER DOUGLAS, Univ of Michigan, Flint
FLOYD DUNCAN, Virginia Military Institute
FRANCIS EGAN, Trinity College
JON EGGER, Towson University
KENNETH ELZINGA, Univ of Virginia
PAUL. EVANS, Ohio State University
FRANK FALERO, California State University, Bakersfield
EUGENE FAMA, Univ of Chicago
W. KEN FARR, Georgia College & State University
DANIEL FENBERG, National Bureau
of Economic Research
HARTMUT FISCHER, Univ. of San Francisco
ERIC FISEt, California State Polytechnic University
FRED FODVARY, Santa Clara University
MURRAY FRANK, Univ. of Minnesota
PETER FRANK, Wingate University
TIMOTHY FUERST, Bowling Green State University
B. DELWORTHI GARDNER, Brigham Young University
JOHN GAREN, Univ. of Kentucky
RICK GEDDES, Cornell University
AARON GELLMAN, Northwestern University
WILLIAM GERDES, Clarke College
JOSEPH GIACALONE, Sti. Johns University
MICHAEL GIBBS, Uni of Chicago
OTIS GILLEY, Louisiana Tech University
STEPHAN GOHMANN, Univ. of Louisville
RODOLFo GONZALEZ, Sanose State University
RICHARD GORDON, Penn State University
PETER GORDON, Univ of Southern California
ERNE Goss, Creighton University
PAUL. GREGORY, Univ. of Houston
EARL GRINOLS, Baylor University
DANIEL GROPPER, Auburn University
R.W. HAFER, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
ARTHUo HAL., Univ. of Kansas
STEVE IANKE, JohnsHopkins University
STEPHEN HAPPEL, Arizona State University
RICHARD MART Miami University
THOMAS HAZETIT, George Mason University
FRANK IHEFNER, College of Charleston
SCOTT HIN, Suxas Tech University
RONALD HEINER, George Mason University
DAVID HENDERSON, HooverInstitution,
Stanford University
ROBERT HERREN, North Dakota State University
GAItEN HtE, Columbia University
STEVEN HORWrTZ, St. Lawrence University
DANIEL HoSER, George Mason University
JOHN HOWE, Univ. of Missouri, Columbia
JEFFREY HUMMEL, San Jose State University
BRUCE HUTCIDNSON, Univ. of Tennesseeat Chattanooga
BRIAN JACOBSEN, Wisconsin Lutheran College
SIERRY JARREL.L, Wake Forest University
JASON JOHNSTON, Univ. of Pennsylvania
BoYAN JoVANovIC, New York University
JONATHAN KARPOFF; Univ. of Washingon
BARRY KEATING, Univ. of NotreDame
NAVEEN KHANNA, Michigan State University

NICHOLAs KIEFER, Cornell University
DANIEL KLEIN, George Mason Univesity
PAUL KOCH, Univ. of Kansas
NARAYANA KOCHERLAKOTA, Univ of Minnesota
MAREK KOLAR, Delta College
ROGER KoPPL, Fairleigh Dickinson University
KISHORE KULKARNI, Metropolitan
State College of Denver
DEEPAK LAL, UCLA
GEORGE LANGELET, South Dakota State University
JAMES LARRIVIERE, Spring Hill College
ROBERT LAWSON, Auburn University
JOHN LEVENDIS, Loyola University New Orleans
DAVID LEVINE, Washington University in St. Louis
PETER LEWIN, Univ of Texas at Dallas
W. CRIS LEWIS, Utah State University
DEAN LILLARD, Cornell University
ZIIENG LIU, Emory University
ALAN LOCKARD, Binghampton University
EDWARD LOPEZ, San Jose State University
JON R. LOT, Jr., Univ. of Maryland
JOIN LUNN, Hope College
GLENN MACDONALD, Washington
University in St. Louis
HENRY MANNE, George Mason University
MICHAEL MARLOW, California
Polytechnic State University
DERYL MARTIN, Tennessee Tech University
DALE MATCHECK, Northwood University
JOHN MATSUSAKA, Univ. of Southern California
THOMAS MAYOR, Univ. of Houston
DEIRDRE MCCLOSKEY, University of Illinoiskat Chicago
JOHN MCDERMOTT, Univ. of South Carolina
JOSEPH MCGARRITY, Univ. of CentralArkansas
ROGER MEINERS, Univ of Texas atArlington
ALLAN MELTZER, Carnegie Mellon University
JOHN MERRIFIELD, Univ. of Texas at San Antonio
JAMES MILLER III, George Mason University
JEFFREY MIRON, Harvard University
THOMAS MOELIER, Teoas Christian University
JON MOORHOUSE, Wake Forest University
ANDREA MORO, Vanderbilt University
ANDREW MORRISS, Univ. of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign
MICHAEL MUNGER, Duke University
KEVIN MURPHY, Univ. of Southern California
DAVID MUSTARD, Univ. of Georgia
RICHARD MUTH, Emory University
CHARLES NELSON, Univ. of Washington
WILLIAM NISKANEN, Cato Institute
SEH NORTON, Wheaton College
LEE OANIAN, UCLA
LYDIA ORTEGA, San Jose State University
EVAN OSBORNE, Wright State University
RANDALL PARKER, East Caolin University
ALLEN PARKMAN, Univ. of New Mexio
DONALD PARSONS, George Washington University
SAM PELTZMAN, Univ. of Chicago
TIMOTHY PERRI, Appalachian State University
MARK PERRY, Univ. of Michigan, Flint
CHRISTOPHER PHELAN, Univ. of Minnesota
GORDON PHILLIPS, Univ. of Maryland
MICHAEL PIPPENGER, Univ. of Alaska, Fairbanks

TOMASZ PISKORSKI, Columbia University
BRENNAN PLATT, Brigham Young University
JOSEPH POMYKALA, Tawson University
WILAM POOLE, Univ. of Delaware
BARRY POULSON, Univ of Colorado at Boulder
BENJAMIN POWELL, Suffolk Univetity
EDWARD PRESCOT',Nobel laureate
GARY QUINIVAN, Saint Vincent College
REZA RAMAZANI, Saint Michael's College
ADRIANO RAMPINI, Duke University
ERIC RASMUSEN, Indiana University
MARIO RIzzo, New York University
NANCY ROBERTS, Arizona State University
RICHARD ROLL, UCLA
ROBERT ROSSANA, Wayne State University
JAMES ROUMASSET, Univ. of Hawaii atManoa
JOHN ROwE, Univ. of South Florida
CHARLES ROWLEY, George Mason University
JUAN RUBIO-RAMIREZ, Duke University
ROY RUFFIN, Univ ofHouston
KEVIN SALYER, Univ. of California, Davis
THOMAS SAVING, Texas A&M University
PAVEL SAVOR, Univ. of Pennsylvania
RONALD SCHMIDT, Univ. of Rochester
CARLOS SEIGLIE, Rutgers University
ALAN SHAPIRO, Univ. of Southern California
WILLIAM SHUGHART H, Univ. of Missssiippi
CHARLES SKIPTON, Univ of Tampa
JAMES STH, Western Carolina University
VERNON SmIT, Nobel laureate
LAWRENCE SOUTHWICK, JR., Univ. at Buffalo
DEAN STANSEL, Florida Gulf Coast University
HOUSTON STOKES, Univ. of Illinoiskat Chicago
BRIAN STROW, Western Kentucky University
SHIRLEY SVORNY, California State
University, Northridge .
JOHN TATOM, Indiana State University
WADE THOMAS, State University
of New York at Oneonta
HENRY THOMPSON, Auburn University
ALEx ToKAREV, The King's College
EDWARD TOWER, Duke University
LEO TROY, Rutgers University
WILUAM TRUMBULL, West Virginia University
DAVID TUERCK, Suffolk University
CHARLOTTE TWIGHT, Boise State University
KAMAL UPADHYAYA, Univ. of New Haven
CHARLES UPTON, Kent State University
T. NORMAN VAN COTr, Ball State University
RICHARD VEDDER, Ohio University
RICHARD WAGNER, George Mason University
DOUGLAS M. WALKER, Collegeaof Charleston
DOUGLAS 0. WALKER, Regent University
MARC WEIDENMIER, Claremont McKenna College
CHRISTOPHER WESTLEY, Jacksonville
State University
ROBERT WHAPLES, Wake Forest University
LAWRENCE WHITE, Univ. of Missouri at St. Louis
WALTER WILLIAMS, George Mason University
DOUG WILLS, Univ. of Washington Tacoma
DENNIS WILSON, WesternKentucky University
GARY WOLFRAM, Hillsdale College
HUIZHONG ZHOU, Western Michigan University

0
0
0

Sponsored byGi on Campus, www.catocampus.org &
Students for Liberty, www.studentsforliberty.org


iA


