MASKED POTENTIAL
Why Bryan Hogan could save
Michigan when it counts.
See Faceoff, Page 1C

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, October 22, 2009

michigandaily.com

AD Bill Martin announces retirement

In facilities and
finances, Martin
found his legacy

New search process a
chance to reshape job,
not just pick successor

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Managing Editor
Fielding Yost, Michigan's first
athletic director, built Michigan
Stadium at a time when the idea of
seating 100,000 people in a "hole-
in-the-ground" stadium was seen
as unnecessary and unprecedented.
In convincing fashion, he proved
his dissenters wrong by attracting
a sellout crowd in the 1927 home
dedication game. The stadium cur-
rently remains the most prominent
symbol ofYost'sinfluence on Mich-
igan athletics.
Though Bill Martin - who
announced his retirement as ath-
letic director yesterday - didn't
have to build the stadium from
the ground up, the $226 million
Big House renovation project that
broke ground in 2007 is the epito-
me of what will likely be his last-

ing legacy.
With the Michigan Stadium
renovations almost complete and
the re-dedication ceremony sched-
uled for next year's football sea-
son opener, Martin announced his
Sept. 4, 2010 retirement in a letter
to University President Mary Sue
Coleman and during an Athletic
Department staff-wide meeting in
Cliff Keen Arena.
Martin, who championed the
role of a nearly autonomous ath-
letic director in a job where he
stayed much longer than he origi-
nally intended, will leave his mark
on Michigan athletics in a nearly
unparalleled fashion. His legacy
spans from quelling internal finan-
cial concerns to spearheading the
renovation and construction of
numerous athletic facilities.
In his letter to Coleman, Martin
See LEGACY, Page 3A

By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Soon after Athletic Director Bill
Martin submitted a letter to Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man announcing his retirement
effective next year and shared
the announcement with Athletic
Department staff in a department-
wide meeting yesterday, specula-
tion began over who would succeed
Martin as athletic director.
Though many names were
floated among members of the
University community yesterday,,
University executives have not yet'
released the names of any possible
replacements.
In a statement released yester-
day, Coleman wrote she would
manage the process of hiring anew
athletic director.
"I will personally oversee the
search for the next Athletic Direc-

tor with the help of a small advi-
sory group," Coleman wrote. "We
expect this process will take anum-
ber of months. With this advance
notice, we have the opportunity
to make a thoughtful and deliber-
ate choice and to manage a smooth
transition."
Similar to the process used
when Bill Martin was hired as ath-
letic director in 2000, the advisory
committee will recommend candi-
dates for Coleman's consideration,
though the final decision will be up
to the University president.
In an interview yesterday, Uni-
versity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald
said no one has been asked to serve
on the advisory committee yet.
Fitzgerald also said Coleman will
personally choose the committee
members.
Of the many names circulating
around the rumor mill, former Uni-
See SPECULATION, Page 7A

Athletic Director Bill Martin looks on at the Big House during the Wolverines'
upset of Ohio State in 2003. It was the100th rivalry match between U-M and

CHRONICLING MARTIN'S TENURE Newly constructed facilities* Renovated facilities* Notable coach hires
Tommy Amaker: Rich Maloney: Cheryl Burnett: Bob Bowman: Ross Academic John Beilein: Rich Rodriguez: Mike Bottom: Greg Ryan:
men's basketball baseball women's basketball men's swimming Center men's basketball football men's swimming women's soccer
2001-2007 2002-Present 2003-2007 2004-2008 2005 2007-present 2007-present 2008-present 2008-present

For the full listof coaching hires from
Bill Martin's tenure, go toour website
at michigandailycom

r -2001.--2002- 2003 -2004 -2005 2007 2008200 10
Yost Ice Arena Junge Family Kevin Borseth: Wilpon Baseball Al Glick Michigan Michigan Michigan
2001 Champions Center women's basketball and Softball Complex Field House Wrestling Center Stadium Soccer Stadium
Dates are for project's completion date. 2005 2007-present 2008 2009 (Projected: 2009) (Projected: 2010) (Projected: 2010)

S STUDYING OVERSEAS
'Despite losing top spot,'U'
still high in Fulbright awards
28 'U' students given TOP U.S. PRODUCERS OF FULBRIGHT STUDENTS:
prestigious State 200910
Department grants Type of Research Institution Number of Awards Number of Applicants

CAPTURING A POINT IN TIME

Northwestern University
By ALLIE WHITE University of Chicago
Daily StaffReporter Rmwn I niversit,

32
31
29
28

109
128
106
111
sOURCE: TheChronicleofNigherEducation

For the fifth year in a row, stu-
dents from the University have
been awarded upwards of 20 Ful-
bright Scholar Program grants.
A list of top U.S. producers of
Fulbright students for the 2009-
2010 academic year published by
the Chronicle of Higher Education
shows that of the University's 111
applicants to the U.S. Student Pro-
gram, 28 have thus far received and
accepted the grants.
Additionally, the University
ranked near the top in the Ful-
bright Scholar Program, with seven
faculty members receiving grants.
According to Amy Kehoe, Ful-
bright coordinator for the Univer-
sity, the names of the 2009-2010
recipients from the University have
yet to be released in print. They are
expected to be made public either
today or tomorrow.
Sponsored by the U.S. Depart-
ment of State, the Fulbright pro-
gram functions as an international
exchange program for students
and university professionals and
faculty, allowing them to conduct
researchundertake graduate study
and teach in schools globally.
Last year, 144 students - a record
high for the University - applied for
the Fulbright program, with a com-
bination of 31 undergraduate and
graduate students receiving grants.
The University has led the country

U. of Michigan at Ann Arbor

in Fulbright winners in three out of
the last five years.
Mark Tessler, director of the
University'sInternationalinstitute,
said that while it would be nice to
have the most grants every year, it's
not a realistic goal. He added that
despite the fact that the University
has fewer grant recipients this year,
it still remains a Fulbright power-
house.
"If we're three or four students
less this year, I don't think that's
really important," he said. "We're
really proud of the program and to
be in the company of these other
universities."
Leadingthe researchinstitutions
in recipients this year are North-
western University with 32 grants,
the University of Chicago with 31
and Brown University with 29.
Tessler noted that within the
top 10 institutions, the University
of Michigan is the only public uni-
versity.
"Everybody else on that list,
they are all private schools with a
very different funding base, a very
different student clientele," Tes-
sler said. "Our participation in the
Fulbright program is our pride and
joy."
Kehoe wrote in an e-mail that
she was delighted but not surprised

that the University received so
many awards.
"I did see the ranking and was
pleased to see that Michigan is yet
again a top-producing Fulbright
institution," she wrote.
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham wrote in an e-mail
that she was happy to see Universi-
ty students were once again among
the top grant winners.
"The University of Michigan is
gratified by the Fulbright Scholar-
ship program's continuing recog-
nition of the extraordinary caliber
of our students," she wrote in the
e-mail.
Applicants submit their applica-
tion materials in September for the
subsequent year, and recipients are
announced the following October.
In recent years, the Fulbright has
sent around 1,550 students and
1,250 scholars to over 155 coun-
tries, spendingclose to $275 million
annually in grant money.
According to Schuyler Allen,
senior program officer for the Ful-
bright Student Program Outreach
team, the University of Michigan
has produced 317 student recipi-
ents since 1993. Their areas of study
have ranged from public health to
music composition to East Asian
See FULBRIGHT, Page 3A

Kevin Dohrty, a senior at Greenhills High School, gets his senior photos taken by photographer John Shultz with the help of
Lauren Baker inside the Law Quad yesterday.
iew DPS program, victims
will soon be able to text in tips

Si
cal
Tex
chang
anothi
to elev
simple
The
initiat
Ina
later
Depar

ervice aimed at announce a new number, DPS 911
- or 377911 for Blackberry users -
tuations where that students, faculty and commu-
nity members can text to report a
is may be unsafe crime, specifically for situations
where making a phone call may be
By EMILY ORLEY unsafe.
Daily StaffReporter DPS Director Ken McGee wrote
in the statement that he hopes the
t messaging has completely new initiative will allow DPS offi-
ed the way people talk to one cers to take quicker action on a
er. But little has been done reported crime.
vate the technology beyond "Ultimately," McGee wrote,
communication purposes. "we hope crime can be reduced."
University is hoping a new DPS spokeswoman Diane
ive will change all that. Brown said that calling in to
statement set to be released reporta crime isstill the preferred
today, the University's method, but DPS will immediately
tment of Public Safety will respond to any text messages it

receives.
When a message is sent to the
number, an alarm will flash on
the computer screen of every on-
duty officer, and the text message
will show up on the screen, Brown
said. One officer then takes own-
ership of the message and begins a
text communication with the vic-
tim to find out more details of the
situation.
"Since the text messages need
to be short, we're hopeful our
community members will only use
the system for crimes or emergen-
cies in progress," McGee wrote in
the statement.
The initiative originally came
See TEXTING, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 53
TOMORROW LU 47

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS .................................2A CLASSIFIEDS.....................6A
Video: Rich Rodriguez responds to Martin retiring. Vol. CXX, No. 31 OPINION ............................4 A THE B-SI DE.....B...................1 B
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/SECTION/MULTIMEDIA @2009 The Michigan Daily SPORTS........... ....SA FACEOFF..................,.....,....1C
michigandoilycom"""'

4 V1


4

2A - Thursday, October 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY: HUSAY FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Beo---Wee---Photos of the Week

Turning the Diag into a campus auction house

Football ticketa these days for
seats on the 50-yard line could fetch
upwards of $100, but back in 1962,
they were auctioned off for a mere
$15.
The tickets were a part of the
World University Service Auction,
a program on campus where profes-
sors auctioned off campus luxuries,
goods and other services.
According to an article in The
Michigan Daily on March 15, 1962,
items auctioned off included a fac-
ulty parking permit for a $22, four
season passes at the Cinema Guild
for $5.50, and even a dinner with
then-University President Harlan
Hatcher and his wife for $17.
Mavin Felheim, an energetic and
sarcastic professor, acted as faux
auctioneer during the event on the
Diag, according to the Daily article.
Eager students lined up to bid on
the sometimes obscure, but often

Is a photo from The Michigan Daily on March 15,1962, Prof. Marvin Feiheim auctions off campos
goads to ahout 200 students. The items included housekeeping services, parking permits and hooks.

CRIME NOTES
Laptop stolen Tool box stolen,
while victim in then recovered

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

L1IC RualIII RJNJI
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher Grad-
uate Library
WHEN: Yesterday at about 11:45
WHAT: A laptop was stolen
from the 4th floor of the stacks
while the owner was in the
restroom, University Police
reported. The laptop was val-
ued at $1,000.
Plant taken
WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Eoom
WHEN: Tuesday at about 6:45
WHAT: A plant was taken
from a patient's hospital room,
University Police reported.
The value of the plant in cur-
rently unknown.

WHERE: 1506 East Medical
Center
WHEN: Tuesday at about 3:30
p.m.
WHAT: A tool box was taken
fro a docking area, University
Police reported. The box was
later recovered by another
police agency.
Missing monitor
WHERE: Art and Architecture
Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about
12:30 p.m.
WHAT: A computer monitor
was stolen from the Art and
Architecture building, Universi-
ty Police reported. The monitor
is valued at $799. The incident is
still under investigation.

Source-citing
workshop
WHAT: An informational
session on importing citations
from the Internet and creating
formatted bibliographies.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m. to
5p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Eoom 206
International
jobs panel
WHAT: A panel featuring
student interns, returned
Peace Corps volunteers will
discuss opportunities in the
foreign and civil service.
WHO: Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Wiell Hall, Eoom
1120

Health care
reform panel
WHAT: A panel discussion
on health care reform featur-
ing University professors and
researchers.
WHO: Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall, Eoom
1120
CORRECTIONS
" An article in last Friday's
edition of the Daily ('U'
endowment fallsa21percent)
mistakenly reported that the
University's endowment was
valued at $1.6 billion. The
endowment's value fell by
$1.6 billion in the last year,
but is valued at $6 billion.
* Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

aningful, items.
yven foreign countries got
,lved according to the article.
ael donated jugs with water from
Jordan River, which sold for
50, while Germany donated a
k about the country, which sold
$5.
The highest grossing item was
eding, cleaning and other assort-
services" by the Chi Omega
ority for $41, according to the
nice.
Adinner at Alpha Omega Pi
trity went for $33, while break-
tserved by the Sigma Delta Tan
trity cost $21.
11 proceeds from the auction
nt to a variety of charities in
area. Students bid on the items
le helping a good cause at the
ne time.
-MIKE MERAR
1A dog trained to sniff drugs
found about 3,000 pounds
of marijuana in the back
of an 15-wheeler, the Houston
Chronicle reported. The truck,
which was parked at a truck
atop, was being used to trans-
port watermelons and lemons.
2The State Theater, as part
of a long-standing tradi-
tion of midnight screen-
ings, will show "The Eocky
Horror Picture Show" tomor-
row and Saturday night. It's
more than a midnight screen-
ing - it's an experience.
ouFOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE
3After a man from Cincin-
nati failed a field sobriety
test last week he grabbed
the unfinished bottle of Smirnoff
Vodka in the passenger seat
and finished it, Cincinnati.com
reported. The man was given the
additional charge of tampering
with evidence.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, HI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Hanager
734-647-3336 734-764-0008
graca@mivhigandaiy.vom rmdhuoineoo@pnail.cum
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Offtcehours:Sun.-Thurs. 11 a.m. -2 a.m.
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Correctionscorrvetions@michigandaily.com
Lettes to thetEditor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.coe
Arts Section artspagepichiandaiy.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.con
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
tlassitied Salesuclaified@michigandaily.com
Olitne Sales onlineads@michigandailyvcom
Finance finaneomichigandailyvcox
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managingoditor ratkowiaklichigandailyuom
Jacob SoilOitZ Mnag~ingNesnxEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.uom
SEONEWS'InaTOnS:Mat taronsonJillian Berma,,TrevorCaer, Jnn
ASSISTNv NEWSEDITOnS:sicole'Aber,llr Jone, cmily rl',Stephanie
Steinbr,Eshwa hirunavukaras
Robert Soave EditoriilPage Editor soave@michigandaily.com
Andy Reid ManingotstEditor reid@mich~igandaily.coe
SEIRSPuRTSEDIORN oliAuerbbach, MikeEsei,,IancKynuh
Lincln, Alex Prosperi
DavidWatnick ManagingAnonsditor watnickpnihiandaityuon
SfNnsRATvo SnEDTvOS amielc,BradoConrcdicshitne Po
ASSISTANRS EDITsORS:JouacBayer,,oylrc,ki, AndrewLan, DaidRia,,
Zachary Meisnernand photopichiadaiy.com
tilt Reeder Managing Phuoo ditors
SENIOvPOTvOEDITOS SiduAlsalah, Chanl VonHabsburgLothringen
AnStSuSNHO TOEIOS:Max Collin, ChrisDzmak, Sa Wolson
Angela Chih and design@niuthigandaily.aom
MaureenStych ManagingoDesigncEditors
Jessicafasgerchian MagainenEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopyvChief mitchell@niutigaedaity.non
uSSOCATECOCIEMenlie rid,udtimWll,:,i,
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak Sales Manager
SALSFRCEvAcNAGER:otlly Twig
Ryan Businski Clasified Mnagern
CLASSIEDcoASSITNTMNAGc E: ~al a~t
Ben English troductionoManager
Allison Santacrec LaoutonManager
Vivian LeevFinacenagner
Brittany MoralesCicaionManger
Brad Wiley Pect unCoordicnor
Th ichigannalyl(ISN745-96) ulished ondacdy throuh Frdaiurinhefll ad winte
temsby studen5tathUnivesitynof ichigaOe cpy is vaiibleuelfharge toillreder.
Addtiol cpis aybe ickeld uat tDaihicefo $.Subscripinolcl ter, sartinin
Septeber,iatU.. mailtlare 0. W nltertJnay throghpil)is1,ptyalng(Septeber
throcugApril sp$1t. Unierity afnilies ate suetto areducedsubscmiptinrate. On-cepus
subsciptin frfll trm ar $Stubsciption mut bepreaid. heMcgn Daoilyistahmembeof
Th socuitdtrst~s ae soiteddolegiaePress.

I

4

A

MORE ONLINE ,.
Love Crime Noes? Get more online at michipndaily.com/blogs/fh wireV\


n YES, WE ARE ON FACEBOOK
ght ~Iicbitan'Oig P R ES EN TS

0

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit mlchlgandally.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

4


MakeP AMsure stuei
ino the right
P J e t The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn tstop students from
thinkcing about housing early, so why should you? Advertise
leases for now, May, and Pall ao1ot Reach over 40,000
students and othser University members.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22 " .
Published Oct. 28E
(734) 764-0557m
dailyclassified@gmail.Com

f':':;
u''
,

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Gov.: Next round of
cuts will come, but
targets not decided
Gov. Jennifer Granhoim said
yesterday she hasn't decided where
she'll make cuts in the six remain-
ing budget bills on her desk.
But the money she vetoed ear-
lier this week from a public schools
budget is still causing waves.
The Democratic governor said
Tuesday she was forced to veto $51
million targeted for 39 school dis-
tricts from the education budget
because lawmakers didn't include
enough money to pay for the bill
as revenues have fallen. Senate
Republicans deny that and say she's
using schoolchildren as pawns to
push for higher taxes.
The State Board of Education
has moved up its regularly sched-
uled November meeting to Monday
to address education financing. The
board originally was to meet Nov.
10. The public schools budget was
cut 2.9 percent in the new budget
year that just started.
WASHINGTON D.C.
New undercover
ACORN tape
released
Two conservative activists
released a new undercover video
targeting the community organizing
group ACORN yesterday, an attempt
to reignite a simmering political con-
troversy surrounding the Democrat-
ic-leaningorganization.
The new videotape shows film-
makers Hannah Giles and James
O'Keefe, posing as a prostitute and
her boyfriend, soliciting advice
about a possible housing loan from
workers in the Philadelphia office
of ACORN Housing Corp.
Previousvideos showedthe same
pair, also posing as a prostitute and
her boyfriend, visiting ACORN
offices in other cities.
The Philadelphia visit is signifi-
cant because of a dispute over state-
ments ACORN has made defending
what took place when Giles and
O'Keefe visited the Philadelphia
office last summer.
ORANGE PARK, Fla. -
Body found but
not identified as
missing girl
Authorities saytheyhave not iden-
tified a child's body they found yes-
terday in a landfill while searching
for a missing 7-year-old girl. Family
members were hopeful the girl is still
alive, though neighbors in the girl's
community feared the worst.
The partially covered body of the
child was found in a Georgia land-
fill near the Florida state line, after
investigators followed garbage
trucks leaving from the neighbor-
hood where Somer Thompson dis-
appeared Monday.
'Sheriff Rick Beseler said investi-
gators searched through 100 tons of
garbage before findingthe body. He
first said the body was female, then

corrected himself to say he could
not confirm the gender.
Few other details about the
body, such as a possible cause of
death, were released. The Georgia
Bureau of Investigation planned an
autopsy Thursday.
RIO DE JANEIRO
Police crack down on
gangs after 32 deaths
Police in Rio expanded a crack-
down on gangs beyond the area
hit by a wave of killings that has
claimed at least 32 lives since the
weekend, officials said yesterday.
The clashes came less than three
weeks after the city was awarded
the 2016 Olympic Games. They
began when a drug gang tried to
invade a rival's territory and three
policemen were killed when a heli-
copter was shot down by gunfire
over the weekend.
Subsequent firefights between
policeandheavilyarmedgangmem-
bers have left the affected slums in
chaos. Hundreds of residents fled
their homes overnight, choosing
to sleep in streets away from their
own neighborhoods after rumors
spread that drug gangs were set to
battle again.
While the violence began in a
northern area near the Maracana
stadium, which will host the Olym-
pics' opening and closing ceremo-
nies, police searching for suspects
behind the downing ofthe helicopter
launched operations in slums in Rio's
south and center on Wednesday.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

2 years after trial,
woman recants story

Six people jailed
for the torture of
a woman who now
admits she lied
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -
Megan Williams' shocking accu-
sations initially strained the
imagination: Seven white people
beat her with sticks, forced her to
eat feces, raped her and taunted
her with racial slurs over several
days in a ramshackle trailer in
West Virginia.
But the suspects eventually
confessed to their actions and
pleaded guilty. All but one were
sent to prison. Now Williams, who
is black, is taking it all back.
Williams lied in 2007 because
she wanted to get back at a boy-
friend who had beaten her, her
attorney, Byron L. Potts, said yes-
terday at a news conference in his
Columbus office.
Williams no longer wants to live
a lie, Potts said.
"She told me the only thing not
self-inflicted were the bruises on
her face," Potts said.
Williams, 22, who now lives
with a caregiver in Columbus, was
LEGACY
From Page 1A
made it clear that with his most
treasured construction projects
now either approved or nearing
completion, it was time to step
down.
"We've discussed my retire-
ment for a couple of years now,
and I agreed to stay on to make
sure the (football) stadium proj-
ectwouldbe finished asplanned,"
Martin wrote. "In the last few
months I have had the chance
to make significant progress on
other issues that needed to be
set on a firm foundation as well,
including plans for the basketball
practice facility, so I think it is
now time to plan for the future."
Associate Athletic Direc-
tor Bruce Madej said he was
"caugit by surprae"._wben Mar-
tin announced his retirement.
Madej knew that Martin was
likely planning to retire after he
launched the construction of the
aforementioned $23 million bas-
ketball practice facility, sched-
uled to be completed in 2011, but
said he thought Martin would
retire in Jangsry 2011 instead of
next September.
The regents approved the con-
struction of the basketball prac-
tice facility in January 2009 and
approved schematic designs 0'
September 2009.
"If you read between the lines,
after the (Michigan) Stadium ren-
ovations, he had one more project
that he wanted to do - the basket-
ball facilities that he got off the
ground," Madej said. "Once that
was set, I knew he had accom-
plished what he wanted to."
Martin also oversaw the con-
struction of the Al Glick Field
House, a $26.1 million indoor
football practice facility that
opened in August 2009. Other
Martin-led projects have includ-
ed the completed Alumni Field
($5.5 million) and Fisher Stadium
($9 million) renovations and the
$6 million construction of a new
soccer stadium, approved by the

regents in May 2009.
But even while dealing with
teams that haven't needed as
much hands-on leadership or
massive facility overhauls, Mar-
tin's business sense has been
apparent.
"I showed him my idea of put-
ting a balcony in Yost (Ice Arena),
and he said, 'It's a no-brainer, we
have to do it,"' Michigan hockey
coach Red Berenson said. "I'd
been talking about that for five
years and nobody listened. But
Bill Martin could see, 'Look, this
will pay itself off in three years
and it'll make the building that
much more hospitable and add so
much to the building.' He's been
very supportive of anythingwe've
needed in the hockey program."
Over the past decade, Martin
has also had a hand in bring-
ing many of Michigan's current
coaches to Ann Arbor. But his
reputation for selecting coaches
may rest most on the success of
football coach Rich Rodriguez,
who was hired by Martin in
December 2007.
Rodriguez's hiring came after
Martin had been intensely scru-
tinized by the national media
for how he handled the coaching
search.4

in the office with Potts, but she did
not appear before reporters. Potts
said she has received several anon-
ymous phone calls from people
threatening her life.
"She is recantingthe entire inci-
dent. She says it did not happen,
and she's scared," Potts said.
Seven white men and women
were convicted in the case, in
which Williams had also said that
hot wax was poured on her and
that two of her captors had forced
her to drink their urine.
Policesaidthe assaults occurred
at a trailer owned by Frankie
Brewster in a rural area of Logan
County, about 50 miles from
Charleston, W.Va. Williams was
rescued after an anonymous caller
alerted authorities.
Potts said that Brewster's son,
Bobby, was the boyfriend who had
beaten Williams and that she had
stabbed herself with a straight
razor to help embellish the story
of being tortured.
Prosecutors, who knew about
the relationship even during the
case, dismissed Williams' new
claim, and lawyers for the defen-
dants would not discuss their
plans. Williams' supporters were
cautious about responding to the
statement by a woman whose
Martin had received permis-
sion to talk to current Louisiana
State University coach Les Miles
after his Southeastern Conference
championship game, but ESPN
reported on the day of the game
that Miles had already accepted
an offer with Michigan. Miles
angrily called a press conference
to refute the rumors and later
signed a contract extension with
LSU, which left Martin to answer
a barrage of questions relating to
his interactions with Miles and
his coaching search etiquette.
In the end, Martin hired
Rodriguez, who led Michigan to
its worst record in school history
(3-9) in 2008. The team is cur-
rently 5-2 in 2009.
"We've had probably a lifetime
of stories in less than two years.
I think that's natural when you
have a transition," Rodriguez said
beo visterday's football prac-,
tice. "We had a lot of laughs and
we've had a few tough moments,
but I'm hoping that we, over the
next 10 to 12 months that he has
left as athletic director, have a lot
of good moments to share as well.
We've been through some pain
together, and we'd like to have
some good moments for sure."
Martin's other big hires include
Michigan basketball coach John
Beilein, who led the Wolverines
to their first NCAA Tournament
appearance in 11 years last season,
and Michigan baseball coach Rich
Maloney, who has coached Michi-
gan to three Big Ten titles and an
NCAA Regional title in 2007.
"We were all kind of shocked,"
Maloney said of Martin's retire-
ment. "I mean, we knew at some
point this would happen. He
didn't have to have this job. He's a
very successful businessman, and
he really took the job because he
loves Michigan. And that's been
very apparent to me in working
with him over the years - his
love is very, very deep.
"I'm very appreciative he gave
me a chance to come to Michi-
gan, and this was a place where I
dreamt of coming to as a student
athlete and didn't get the oppor-

tunity. And to come back as a
coach, I will always be indebted
to Bill for that."
Martin's legacy of construction
and hires maybe more impressive
given the conditions in which he
entered the post of athletic direc-
tor. As soon as he took the job, he
immediately found himself faced
with digging Michigan out of a
financial hole and repairing the
school's damaged reputation.
After former University Presi-
dent Lee Bollinger forced then-
Athletic Director Tom Goss to
resign, Martin took over the ath-
letic director post on an interim
basis on March 6, 2000. He was
permanently named athletic
director on Aug. 1 of the same
year.
The multimillionairebusiness-
man, who successfully founded
the real estate firm First Martin
Corporation in 1968 and the Bank
of Ann Arbor in 1995, wasn't
accustomed to seeing a business
so deep in the red. The Athletic
Department suffered a $2.8 mil-
lion deficit for the 1999 fiscal
year, according to a Feb. 14, 2000
article in the University Record.
In the 2001 fiscal year, the
introduction of varsity women's
water polo and varsity men's soc-

mother described her during the
2007 case as "slow."
Potts urged prosecutors in West
Virginia to re-evaluate the case
and he said that Williams wants
people convicted to be released
from prison.
Brian Abraham, the former
Logan County prosecutor who
pursued the cases, said authori-
ties realized early in the investi-
gation that they could not rely on
statements from Williams, who
tended to embellish and exagger-
ate details. Instead, he said, the
seven defendants were convicted
on their own statements and phys-
ical evidence.
"If she's going to say that she
made it all up, that's absurd,"
Abraham said. "This looks like
another attempt to generate more
publicity."
Potts said he did not know why
the defendants have pleaded guilty
to something they did not do.
He said Williams is aware
that she could face legal conse-
quences for fabricating the story
and that he wants to have her
psychologically evaluated. He
said Williams told him certain
people were controlling her and
influencing her during the case.
He did not elaborate.

FULBRIGHT
From Page 1A
language and literature, with
geographic locations spanning
the globe - everywhere from Sri
Lanka to Guatemala.
University alum Salem Ghan-
dour spent the lastyear in Malaysia
on a Fulbright scholarship study-
ing energy policy reforms in the
country. He wrote in an e-mail that
he sat down with Malaysia's prime
minister and other top government
officials during his time there.
Ghandour wrote that although
he is disappointed that the Uni-

versity's Fulbright office does not
interview candidates, he thinks
one of the reasons the University
is so successful in the Fulbright
process is because the office is so
organized.
"Despite my complaints about
the Fulbright office at Michigan,
I have to admit that they orga-
nized, on a very regular basis, lots
of information session about Ful-
bright and were very clear with
deadlines and when to get the
application started," he wrote in
the e-mail. "I knew, after attending
a few sessions, that discipline was
key. And indeed, the info sessions
were spot on."

WANT TO
WRITE FOR THE
MICHIGAN DAILY'S
NEWS SECTION?
Send an e-mail to
smilovitz@michigandaily.com
to get started.

cer cost the Athletic Department
an extra $600,000. The same A A
year, the University had to pay
Nike $760,000 to purchase ath-
letic equipment after it couldn't
manage to sign a contract with ZARAGON
the supplier, according to a 2004 U'S FINEST T E
article in The Michigan Daily. E F 2 21
After Martin took over, his 'Z '
business savvy started to speak '2 - E
for itself. He gave his first year's
salary back to the University,
negotiated a seven-year contract EU U E" U
with Nike and sealed a $1 mil-
lion radio contract. At the end of
the 2002 fiscal year, the Athletic
Department had already reversed
its deficit and was projected to 1 4 9 6 7
have a $5.5 million surplus.
But the Michigan Athlet-
ic Department's image issues 6
stretched beyond balance sheet
woes. In 2000, the Wolverines 2 3 7
were reeling from numerous off-
the-field issues, including the
investigation of a basketball scan- 3
dal that involved four players -
Louis Bullock, Maurice Taylor,
R obert Traylor and Chris Web-
ber - taking money from former 587
team booster Ed Martin in the
late 1980's. The Michigan basket-
ball program was placed on pro- 8 6V
bation in 2002, and Bill Martin
found himself partly responsible 7
for cleaning up the stain on the
University's reputation. S 9 3 1 8
"First of all, and some people
might not agree, hiring (for- 1* *
mer Michigan basketball coach)
Tommy Amaker (in 2001) was
a smart move," Madej said. "He
brought continuity and strength
of leadership that helped create
some of the respectability. And
then John Beilein has moved it to
the next level. I mean, his record
speaks for itself."
Martin fired Amaker in 2007
all record (43-53 Big Ten), say-
ing in his press conference that
"this basketball program is better
today than it was before he took
the job;but we both know that it
is not in the position either one
of us wants it to be after his sixth
year." :
Beilein, Amaker's successor,
finished 10-22 in his first season
but, in 2009, took the Wolverines PI
to the NCAA Tournament for the
first time in 11 years. The team's
surprising success finally pro-
vided the revitalization the team P A 3T3
desperately needed when Martin
took over nine years earlier.
Martin's decision to announce
his retirement early will give Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man almost 10 months to find a
suitable replacement, which will
ensure the Athletic Department
will not need to scramble to find a
successor. He is leaving behind a
budget surplus and multiple con-
struction projects in the works, A
even during the current econom-
ic recession, which means the s
transition to a new athletic direc-
tor will surely be easier than it
was when Martin took the helmA ARBOR
in 2000. 929 E. ANN ST. ~734.913.9200
"I think his greatest strength 600 PACKARD ~734.741.9200
is bricks and budgets," University 1207 S. UNIVERSITY 734.827.2600
Lecturer and Michigan sportshis-
torian John U. Bacon said. "He has
no doubt attracted some critics, as 3365 WASHTENAW AVE. ~734.477.0000
any AD will over that stretch, but2 PLYMOUTH
it's got to be said, the department
is in much better shape now than YPSILANTI
when he found it." - i . .CO S

-Daily Sports Writer Ryan
Kartje, Daily Sports Editor Andy
Reid and Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson Ontributed to this report.


4A - Thursday, October 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I c Iicl ig n wily


.I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

ROBERT SOAVE
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Science sells
Venture Center a good way to bring 'U' innovation to world
T he University has already established itself as a hub of
research and innovation. On Oct. 13, the University is
already among the top 10 colleges in the country for cre-
ating startup companies based on university-licensed inventions
and technologies. And with the creation of the new Michigan
Venture Center, the University will be able to do an even bet-
ter job of bridging the gap between innovation and enterprise.
Researchers and professors interesting in marketing their inno-
vations should take full advantage of the Michigan Venture Cen-
ter and give the state economy a much-needed edge in the field
of new technology.

The Michigan venture Center will,
according to a University press release,
"help faculty inventors create business
plans, assess a technology's commercial-
ization potential, deal with intellectual
property issues, attract investors and
acquire gap funding to enhance the mar-
ket appeal of a new technology." Jim
O'Connell, the associate director for busi-
ness formation at the University's Office of
Technology Transfer, will lead the venture
Center. He hopes to increase the number
of average science-based startups per year
at the University from nine to 12 by giving
professors new incentives and opportuni-
ties for research.
The launching of the Venture Cen-
ter comes just two weeks after President
Mary Sue Coleman announced in her State
of the University address that the Univer-
sity would put more money into research
than ever before. The Venture Center is a
great opportunity to turn the innovations
that grow out of this research money into
benefits for the University, and by exten-
sion the state economy and consumers.
Researchers who want to bring their prod-
ucts to the market will now have a better
resource to connect them with businesses
that can sell the product. More start-
ups will bring enormous benefits to the
University's reputation as a place of new

developments, as well as offering real tech-
nological improvements for the world.
After all, science-based startups are just
what Michigan needs to carve out a niche
for itself in a modernizing U.S. economy.
Bringing the best and brightest minds to
the state and then offering them resources
to market their innovations will contribute
to the transformation of the state economy
into one that favors science and research.
Michigan's economy could certainly use
the boost that the Venture Center will pro-
vide.
And when scientists are given the
resources to make their developments
widely available, everyone wins. New
technologies are constantly revolutioniz-
ing the world and improving the quality of
life. Scientific leaders - like the University
- can always use more programs like the
Venture Center to close the gap between
the development and marketing stages of
innovation.
Professors and researchers who are
interested in patenting their work should
take full advantage of what ;he Venture
Center has to offer. Some of the country's
most interesting and important research is
being done here at the University, and the
Venture Center will help these exciting
innovations make the leap from prototype
to reality.

I don't want to be a Roman Catholic,
there was a Reformation, you remember."
- Bishop Martyn Minns, commenting on his lack of confidence in the Roman Catholic Church's plan to accept
conservative Anglicans back into the faith, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
Did you see Paranormal Yeah And so few resources Im nottryingany arder
Actviv? You it would be an
6 Yeah, don't u wish you ero heir work
could make somethin so Typica.
The weighty woes ofcollege
students, we ask ourselves ily servesvegan andvegetarian meals, cult to resist the urge to speed up to
lots of difficult questions like, something I didn't know before sign- show them who's boss, which usually
"What do I want to major in?" ing up to live there for eight months results in embarrassment and lung
and, "Will I be able of my life. Veganism/vegetarianism failure. Not to mention it's going to be
to get a job in this isn't the worst invention of human- winter awfully soon, so you'd have to
economy?" But as ity when it comes to eating (there's start going to the gym to run.
always, the most always cannibalism), but because I'm The gym. It's always been an awk-
pressing inquiry set in my ways as a carnivore I spend ward place for me and, I imagine,
remains, "Since far too much time eating cheap, many others. I think it's because I
when did I get two unhealthy food options: Wendy's, can't grunt impressively. If you can't
chins?" Panda Express, Jimmy John's. It's grunt while lifting weights you'll feel
weight gain: the terrible. They're all so good, I never really wimpy and probably end up
questions abound. WILL know which one to choose. leaving. You can try to jog there, too,
What can we do So, if you're like me, or if you spend
about it? Is it more GRUNDLER way too much time studying while
prevalent in col- eating Snickers, or if you live in a
lege males or col- dorm and enjoy fourth helpings, or Face it, gaining
lege females? How unhealthy is dorm yada yada yada, who's to blame? Well,
food? Maybe my extra weight is just yourself, I guess, and maybe the fed- w elght at college is
muscle mass? (Fat chance.) When eral government a bit, but not really
ordering off the Wendy's dollar menu I don't think. I'm just an English unavoidable.
in the Union, is it 99 cents for a Junior major.
Bacon Cheeseburger or is it $1.06? But what's to be done? Depress-
(It's $1.06.) Isn't that annoying when ingly little.
you just want to pay a dollar? (Heck For instance, you could join Intra- but it's so boring going around in cir-
yeah it is!) mural Sports, which is what I decided cles, lapping old people. It's depress-
Of course, maybe you're abnor- to do this year, but you don't get much ing, really, especially because they
mal and don't eat cheeseburgers, but exercise. I played soccer only once a beam at you in that old person way
it's a rare student who doesn't get a week and late at night, and the other every time you pass them.
bit heavier from something - lack team and my own teammates laughed. Look, let's just forget about this
of exercise, energy drinks during , at me throughout each game because whole weightthing and losing weight,
study sessions, journeys to vending I usually put the ball in the wrong net ok? It's too much of a hassle. Just keep
mahines late at night, alcohol fp, ro ggcident. This caused me to just askingyomirselfAbout your majoraso
breakfast, etc. I'll admit that I am eat more after each game. the economy and easy stuff like that.
not that student. Even I'm getting If you're not the best athlete you After all, if you concentrate on that
heavier, dear readers, and when I could consider a more solitary exer- and end up financially successful,
get heavier I can safely assume that cise, like jogging around campus. you can hire a personal trainer and...
many of you are, too, so that I can feel Well, peoplestilljudge you, especially you know? I'm hungry. Does anyone
better about myself. if you insist on wearing spandex, and have six cents? Because I only have a
Now, I don't want to point any fin- every now and again you see REALLY dollar.
gers, but it's not really my fault. You nerdy joggers who weargoggles. And,
see, my student housing (like I'm just of course, when a faster person (every - Will Grundler can be
going to tell you where I live) primar- other jogger) passes ypu it's diffi- reached at wgru@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity
and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Ignoring balloon boy

40

a

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya,
Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

a

U Housing deserves more
credit than Caleca gave it
TO THE DAILY:
In his column, Ben Caleca offered some
thoughtful ideas (Going green, the slow way,
10/13/2009). He understated, however, the
investment in locally grown foods by Univer-
sity Housing. Offering more than an occasional
sustainable meal, Residential Dining Services
has been expanding its efforts to regularly
include local produce and food products - first
in East Quad and now in nearly all dining hall
menus.
Despite the challenge of Michigan's growing
season - shorter than the local season for UNC
HARUN BULJINA

Chapel Hill, which Caleca held out as an example
- local produce and products account for nearly
20 percent of the RDS food budget. We hope to
increase our selection of local foods as we devel-
op additional contracts with local farmers and
producers.
We think it is supportive of Caleca's perspec-
tive to mention that University Housing has been
seriously engaged in promoting recycling and
sustainable activities in the residence halls and
Northwood Community for many, many years.
With the support of the students, we can, and
shall, continue to do more. For more information,
visit http://www.housing.umich.edu/dining/
freshmi.html.
Peter Logan
University Housing Communications Director
E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU


f you were away from TV dur-
ing Fall Break, you might have
missed the ridiculous drama of
The Colorado Bal-
loon Incident. The
Heene family of
Fort Collins, Colo.,
ignited a media
firestorm after the
family's father,
Richard Heene,
told authorities in
a desperate 911 call
that his six-year- CHRIS
old son, FalconK
was floating away KOSLOWSKI
aboard a home-
made flying saucer-
shaped balloon that came loose from
its mooring in the Heenes' backyard.
After a 50-mile journey, the balloon
crash-landed, but little Falcon was
nowhere to be found.
Thinking the boy might have fallen
out during the flight, law enforce-
ment launched a search and soon
discovered Falcon had been hiding in
the Heenes' garage the entire time.
Richard Heene claimed he sincerely
thought his son had climbed aboard
the saucer, but in a Wolf Blitzer inter-
view, Falcon let slipthatthe family had
put on the whole event "for the show."
The next morning, in a live interview
with NBC's Today Show, Falcon vom-
ited when his father tried to justify
his son's comments. Now the Larimer
County sheriff's office is certain that
the Heenes, who previously appeared
on ABC's reality show "Wife Swap,"
faked the whole incident asa publicity
stunt to market themselves for their
own reality TV series.
The Colorado Balloon Incident is
just the latest media frenzy seemingly
motivated by a desire for reality fame.
You might recall Nadya Suleman, the
"Octo-mom," who signed a deal with
a European production company ear-
lier this year to star her own real-

ity show. She gave birth to octuplets
conceived through in-vitro fertiliza-
tion paid for in government disability
money.
I'm sure many of us see the atten-
tion Balloon Boy and Octo-mom
receive and lament how reality tele-
vision has tainted a medium we once
couldtrust. Television, includinglocal
and cable news, has transformed into
its own brand of yellow journalism,
where sensation trumps substance
every time. I'm baffled how Suleman
and the Heene family so easily hood-
winked us all into giving them atten-
tion. Some might blame the public
for lapping up celebrity gossip, shock
news and soap opera programming.
Others might impugn the networks
for shoving this garbage down our
throats. Almost universally, though,
people think this phenomenon of
sensationalism is a bad influence. I
disagree.
I despise Octo-mom. And as much
guilty pleasure I take from watch-
ing the Heene family train wreck,
I'm quickly tiring of them, too. In a
less perfect world, I would be forced
to endure this drivel until the next
ridiculous story broke, but thank-
fully I hold in my hands the ultimate
power in the universe - the remote
control. Over-hyped stories like these
remind me and millions of others that
we have the power to decide what we
watch and the responsibility to ques-
tion what is being presented to us as
news or truth.
The "trusted newsmen" era of
Walter Cronkite, Dan Rather and
others lulled Americans into compla-
cency. People trusted Uncle Walter
to be a one-stop shop for news. Now
with radio, television, the Internet
and hundreds of news sources within.
those different channels all compet-
ing for the public's attention, people
are better able to decide what they
consider newsworthy. Overtly sen-

sationalist reporting is easier to pick
out and avoid, and most importantly,
it exposes the hidden motivation
behind many news organizations: to
make a profit.
The more people who realize news
sources, just like anything else in our
great capitalist nation, are primar-
ily out to make a buck, the better,
smarter and more discriminating
we become as consumers of news.
You don't need me to tell you that a
smarter audience, willing to seek out
truth for themselves, is better than
the apathetic alternative. Viewers
are finally realizing that reality TV
is often anything but. Rather than
Viewers need to sift
through garbage to
get to smart news.
watching what's fed to them, smart-
er viewers decide to sift through
the trash to find programming they
appreciate. It might be annoying, but
the wisdom and experience that the
sifting helps create far outweighs the
negative effects of exposure to sensa-
tionalism.
We shouldn't forget that many'
people are actually entertained by
the real life drama of a kid-in-a-fly-
ing-saucer hoax, and that's fine. If
after a long day someone is looking
for something to make them laugh or
pique their curiosity, I have no prob-
lem with Octo-mom filling that need.
As terrible as they seem, these sensa-
tional scandals have the potential to
help everybody - as long as we keep
fresh batteries in our remotes.
- Chris Koslowski can be
reached at cskoslow@umich.edu.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 5A

Emotional, one-
goal loss takes toll
on Coach Pankratz

By MICHAEL LAURILA
For the Daily
As time expired in yesterday's
Michigan fieldhockeygame against
Kent State, coach Marcia Pank-
ratz epitomizes the Wolverines'
frustration perfectly. She angrily
asked the referee "if he wanted to
take this into the parking lot" as
he walked
away, the MICHIGAN 0
outburst KENT STATE 1
relatingto
the lack of penalties called against
the Golden Flashes.
Throughout the 1-0 loss, the
Wolverines could not get their
offense going and had few, if any,
good scoring opportunities.
"Kent State played inspired
today," Pankratz said. "We just
couldn't get the ball into the goal,
and when we got to the 25-yard-
line, our attack kind of bogged
down and got stagnant."
Throughoutthe year, Michigan
has been a very successful scoring
team, especially when it has had
corner opportunities. In yester-
day's game, the Wolverines didn't
have a corner until there was 2:25
left in the second half, and they
could not string together a series
of passes to get things going. Pank-
ratz said that Michigan's lack of
corners was definitely a problem.
"We didn't get any corners
called for us," she said. "We just

got to try to work on our finite
skills in drawing corners and get
some shots in the circle."
Before Kent State senior Laurie
Wilkins scored with 12:45 remain-
inginthesecond halfoffofadeflec-
tion in the air, the Wolverines had
shut down numerous Kent State
scoring opportunities. Whether
it was due to apathetic players or
questionable calls by referees, all
three Michigan coaches showed
frustration during the game.
Even though the Wolverines
came in as the favorite, the Golden
Flashes had the most recent victo-
ry in the all-time series, a 1-0 win
last year in Ann Arbor. Coming
into this game with a10-3-3 record
against Kent State and a 7-9 over-
all record this season, Michigan
was looking to avenge its loss last
season and improve its sub-500
record this year.
This season, juniors Meredith
Way and Alicia Mayer, have led the
Michigan offense. The junior duo
has a combined 21 goals and five
assiststhis season, which accounts
for half of the team's entire goal
count. But they were held almost
shotless and could not get any-
thing going yesterday.
The Wolverines next face Mich-
igan State, a team that is coming
in with a 12-3 overall record and a
3-0 conference record. With a big
win, Michigan could get its season
back on the right track.

Junior Troy Woolfolk, who played cornerback last year but moved back to strong safety before the start of the 2009 season, has now switched backto corner.
Woolfolk could stay at
corner permanently

By ANDY REID
DailySportsEditor
Troy Woolfolk's move from
safety to cornerback in the week
leading up to the Iowa game had
all the makings of a temporary
switch. There were questions at
the position, but the coaching
staff seemed to be fixing them
quickly.
Boubacar Cissoko, the original
starting corner, had'fallen out of
the coaching staff's favor and was
suspended for "a violation of team
rules."-And his backup, J.T. Floyd,
seemed to be on the brink of suc-
cess, but just needed a little more
time. In order to shore up the field
opposite defensive stalwart Don-
ovan Warren, the coaches decided
Woolfolk could work - until Cis-
soko or Floyd came around - and
moved walk-on Jordan Kovacs to
Woolfolk's strong safety position.
What a difference a couple
weeks make.
"If we get in a pinch, we can
put Troy back (to safety)," Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez said
yesterday. "But there's so much
different teaching to learn, so
we want to get Troy settled in at
corner. Him and Boubacar (need)
to get solid there. Depending on

the emergence of Floyd and some
of the other guys, we'll see what
happens."
Woolfolk played cornerback
all last season, switching to safe-
ty before the 2009 season. The
logic behind the initial was that
his blistering speed could help
eliminate big plays, which were a
huge problem for the 2008 Wol-
verines.

guez said when asked where
Woolfolk should ideally line up.
"(The defensive coaches) feel
more comfortable with Troy now
at corner and try to develop more
depth and conpetition at safety.
But an injury could change that.
As we stand today, they feel good
with where the guys are at."
So far, Wolverine defenders
have been pleased with Wool-

BeforetheIowa folk's perfor-
game, Woolfolk mance at his old
said he enjoyed "W e feel more position.
playing safety - Woolfolk's
but afterward, he-comfortable speed helped
was a bit confused him against the
about where he with Troy Hawkeyes, who
belonged. oddly tested War-
"It felt kind of at corner." ren instead. War-
natural," he said ren responded
after playing cor- with a pick-six
nerback again. "I and a slew of
just play whatever they want me near-interceptions.
to play. I have a good aspect to "Troy's a very physical guy,
bring to the team because I can and he can run, so he can get up
play versatile, so I'll go to corner, to the line of scrimmage," line-
safety, even quarterback if you backer Stevie Brown said. "He
need me to." can press the receiver, and he can
Even the coaching staff is hav- also run with a receiver, too. So
ing trouble figuring out where he he fits well for us."
is most effective. But Woolfolk's reemergence
"That's a good question, and at cornerback doesn't mean
we've gone back and forth talking Floyd and Cissoko won't get any
with the defensive staff," Rodri- reps. Since Cissoko's suspension,

Rodriguez has maintained that
his return to the playing field will
be determined by his actions off it
- both in the classroom and in his
interaction with the team.
And it seems as if Cissoko is
making the proper strides in both
departments.
Although Rodriguez had been
firm in his stance that Cissoko
will not play, he seemed to take
a softer approach to the Detroit
native's case whenie met with
the media yesterday.
"It really depends on the next
couple days whether he plays or
not on Saturday," Rodriguez said.
"He won't start, but whether he
dresses, is allowed to travel or has
the opportunity to play depends
on the next couple of days."
As for Floyd, he was one of very
few players not to see game action
against Delaware State last week-
end. But the benching had noth-
ing to do with his progression at
cornerback - he was very sick
leading into the game.
"I saw J.T. last night after prac-
tice, and-he was feeling a lot bet-
ter," Rodriguez said. "He was hit
really hard with the flu. He feels
a lot better now, so hopefully he'll
get back in the mix and play some
for us."

The infamous block 'M is
returning to the Big House for
Saturday's Penn State game.
Want to know how it looks from the
press box? Follow @michdailysports.

Forcier famiihar with JoePa

Learn more about the Peace Lorps.
Attend an information session.
Thursday, October 22nd
7:00 p.m.
Michigan Union
800.424.85801 www.peacecorps.gov
Life is callin. How far will you go?

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
DailySportsEditor
For both quarterbacks starting
in Saturday's game, the man on the
other sideline will look very familiar.
Fifth-year senior quarterback
Daryll Clark
ended up com- _NTE___K_
mitting to Penn
State, but his first scholarship offer
was from West Virginia and now-
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez.
"There's just something about
them," Clark, a three-star recruit,
told-rivals.com in 2003. "I camped
up there, and I have been excited
about them ever since that. They
were like the first team to come
after me and offer me. That's some-
thing that is important to me."
West Virginia was Clark's initial
frontrunner, but after he visited
State College in December 2003,
Penn State became his favorite. He
eventually eliminated Rodriguez's
team from consideration, but he
and Rodriguez were still friendly
when they ran into each other at
Big Ten Media Day in July.
"We recruited him a little bit,"
Rodriguez said Monday. "He's an
outstanding athlete. He's achieved
an awful lot. I think he's one of the
best quarterbacks in the country."
Though Rodriguez remembered
recruiting Clark, Penn State coach
Joe Paterno couldn't recall many
specifics about recruiting now-
Michigan freshman quarterback
Tate Forcier.
"I think he may have only been
a junior when he came, and he was
from a long way off, and I don't

know whether I spent a lot of time
withhim,"Paternosaid."Youknow,
well-presented, looked good, spoke
well, very, very modest about his
achievements, those kind of things.
"I remember that about him, but
we just didn't get close enough for
me to really say I knew him well."
Forcier was on the sidelines for
the Penn State-Ohio State game
in October 2007, and Penn State
mailed its offer letter to Forcier on
Feb. 6, 2008, with a handwritten
addendum by Paterno at the end.
"P.S. Tate - We hope you have
interest in Penn State and that 2008
will be a great year for you. Joe P,"
Paterno wrote, according to the
scanned-in offer letter on the Forcier
family website, QBforce.com.
MOLK TO START SATURDAY:
Rodriguez confirmed yesterday
that center David Molk will start
at center against Penn State this
weekend, with David Moosman
at guard and either Perry Dor-
restein or Mark Huyge at tackle.
Molk broke his foot against East-
ern Michigan on Sept. 19 and was
originally projected to be out four
to six weeks.
The redshirt sophomore had sur-
gery on his foot on the Monday after
the Eastern Michigan game and fre-
quently used what Rodriguez called
a "bone stimulator," a device that the
coach said could be applied to the
foot to accelerate healing.
Molk was cleared to practice ear-
lier this week, and Rodriguez said
Monday that Tuesday's full-contact
practice would be the bestbarometer
for Molk's readiness. By the time he
playsonSaturday, hewillhavesatout

for exactly five weeks.
"He did quite a bit yesterday in
full pads," Rodriguez said yesterday.
"The report today from the trainers
is that he handled it well. He was a
little sore, as could be expected, butI
think he came through it all well. He
should be fine for Saturday."
INJURY UPDATE: Rodriguez
said Forcier's head (concussion) and
shoulder are both feeling better,
which can be attributed to sitting out
for most of Saturday's game against
Delaware State. Forcier participated
in full practices Monday and Tues-
day, which he had not been able to

do for weeks.
"The head thing has cleared up,
but with the shoulder, he's able to get
more zip onthe ball and run around a
little more," Rodriguez said.
Rodriguez also said that backup
cornerback J.T. Floyd was feeling "a
lot better" yesterday after coming
down with the flu and missing last
week'sgame against Delaware State.
With Floyd healthy again, the cor-
nerback position will have a bit more
depth Saturday, though cornerback-
turned-safety-turned-cornerback
Troy Woolfolk will still start oppo-
site junior Donovan Warren.

THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN C

RACKHAM AMPHITHEATER
for more information tall 734615.6444


0

6A- Thursday, October 22, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

parkmng
025
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 fr details.
aUtomotive f
030
1993 PONTIAC GRAND Am Se
Sporty, dependable ride $1495
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1994 FORD EXPLORER 4 door
4x4, runs great $1995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 DODGE INTREPID
Dependable transportatiot $1295
810-229-9750 www.cmas.com
1999 CHEVY MALIBU
runs great, Very clean $3795
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
Flex fuel engine, Sharp looking $1995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
f orrent
060
4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
sate bats. All-new, furnied, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 9727368
www.HorvathProperties.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6Oand 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW forAug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat cumich.edu,
www.nancyla.com
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1018 E. University
4 bdrm house
Avail. May 2010
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
$1500/mo. Avail. On Dewey, near
Yost Arena. Free offstreet prkg, Indry,
water inc. 734.223.7777.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
7341 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
tm. walk. No Sept. rent.

#. CkMslstls


Make sure
students
into the
f right crib.

The Choice is Yours!
Now Renting Immediately
" , 2 & 3Bedrooms
" 2 City Parks on Property
* High Speed Internet
* AATA Bus ine
" Fitness Center
* Covered Parking
" Flexible Lease Terms
* Apartments &Town Homes
* Pool & Sauna
"Pets Welcome
" 24-Ir. Emergency Maintenance
" Beautiful Grounds
" Business Center
. Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
- Wi-Fi Ready
nRestrictions Apply
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
734-663-7633
www.woodburygardens.com
*Amenites Vary
m by Property
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. I or 2
bedrooms with great City views could
be yours - secure your apartment to-
day!!! 734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
1 & 2 Bdt. fuan. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldy., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.
Management
625 Church St
(7341 668-1100
Now taking reservations
for fall 20101
Studios 1 2, 3, 4, & 5 bdrms & Houses1
See u2] cono alwww-oisemawpm.com -
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Washer and dryere
$1800 a mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available itmedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4 10.

Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop
students from thinking about housing early,
so why should you? Advertise leases for
now, May, and Fall ou! Reach over 4o,ooo
students and otherUuniversity members.
Presented by ThecMichigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
dailycassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
og Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated: Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
Now Leasing
for May 2010:
Large 2 Bedroom Apts!
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperies.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $649. 2 bedroom at $714. Call
Now! 734-663-8463.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
r er Studio & 1
Bd .Un it
734-663-530
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attentin please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgtcotm, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION

TOUR TODAY!
starting at $699
FREE satellite TV
FREhigh speed Internet
A utllties Included
in t Wasrher/Dryer
A sk how you c an receive
$150 gift card and
FREE LUNCHS
, COURTYARDS .1
S T U D E NT r- 'A PA RT ME N TS
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com

A
REALTY
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immediate Ocupany Available
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
0ue!- to Pizza sbouse
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallain Realy
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrislicicomcast.net
5 & 6 BDIRMHOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accomodates 5 people. Free
prkg/ndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc comcast.net
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734)996-1991.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm.
341 E. Jefferson-8 bdrm.
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE MAY- 6 Bdrm house, 2
bdrm apt. on central campus. Avail.
now 5 bdrm Apt. Call 734-665-2723,
visit www.shahproperties.com
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water ml., fully furnmished,
free parking, $999/to. 734-665-8825-
PREsENTS THE
i n~ae Ca e
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check outE
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9

Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
rLLC.734-994-0644.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
ON ARBORETUM NEAR midtown.
Historic Frank Lloyd Wright-type, hse:
4 bdrms, 2.5 baths, 734-662-7924.
Towci
Plan Ahead!
Reserve your housing with
University Towers!
Rising above U-M Central Campus,
University Towers offers fully
furnished rooms, studios,
1, 2 & 3 bedroom units.
included in the rent is heat, water &
amazing high-rise style amenities.
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680

II DIFFERENT
L OCA TIONS!#
CHOOSE ROM FICIEN*
CIES, 1,2, AND 3 RED-
ROOMS, I1-LEVELS AND
TIPLEVELS TOO!
, 1 6eaa3-o,
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,W/D in unit,
$950/mo., all appliances, water in--
cluded. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani@gmail.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

Now Leasing for
May 2010!
3 and 4 bedrooms available!
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
070
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
mace information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com. Taking
orders now for Penn State weekend.

4

Forest Edge Apartments
1315 Hill St.

4

I

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 37 German miss 49Raid target
1 Sweet Spanish 1 Real people? 38 Put back in force, 50 Protected by
wine 2 Biblical as an expiredtax levees
7 In that case debarkation point 39 Blubber 51 "__Gold": Peter
11 Inst. that turns 3 How bad 40 Economic Fondafilm
out lieutenants excuses are warfare tactic 52 _ volente: God
14 Moves on all given 43 Funnyman willing
fours 4 Bowl over Philips 53 Spew lava
15 Cause of a 5 Guzzling sound 45 Mar the beauty of 57 Show signs of
worldwide 19th 6 "Piece ofncake!" 46 Corrida snorter life
centuryfever 7 Inuit home 47 More rare, as 60 Service reward
16 Old school dance 8 Club for country steak 61 Servicecharge;
17 Lostli kids A
19 Victoria's Secret 9Shuteye ANSWER TOPREVIOUS PUZZLE:
offering 10Anomalous AG C RUB . DRAB
20 Bonanza find 11Austin.Powers G U R U T I A R A M A M A
21 in copious catchphrase T R I P P I N G A S W I T C H
amounts 12 Trapped .5 A T I A T E L E A N E S T
22 Ivy in Philly 13 Stretchy fabric
23 Ivy in New Haven 18 Day-_: pigment N S C B R O
25 Dismissed out of brand S L A S H I N G A P R I C E
hand 22 D.C. deal maker
27 Pizazz 24 Nobelist Wiesel HYPE C I V I L R I P E
29 Trumpet sound 26Preoccupy A R E R A N I N M A N S E
30 Party list 28 Make certain H O L D I N G A G R U D G E
31 Bag 31 Videotape type AG0O A LI
37Like Starbucks 32Landin lamer C R A S NHCES C N T OW E R
coffee, every 30 33 Norse god of F I G H T I N G A T I C K E T
minutes single combat O N CE N E ALE A L E E
40Bard's"before" 34Diminish S K Y G E L I D R Y E S
41 ntm e wr d35 Pitching scat xwordeditor@aol.com 1110/21109
42 Three-timeoworld i1a2a3C4 is 6 a7e6i9 33o 11 a2in
champion alpine i415 1i
skier Hermann
44 Feast where the iT i 19
Haggadah is
read 2 12
48 "That's too bad, Tn 24 2s
man"
54 Brazilian soccer 27 1 2
legend
55 PrimeCuts in n 3132a 33 s as a3
Gravy brand 37 as
56 Crudefleet
58 Buny c. on s an 4
Vaentine's Day 4an a aan 4
59 _ Speedwagon
60 "1 don'tfeel like 4 a nso 5 e5 4
cooking" option
62 Enlistees, briefly 5
63 Slurpee relativse
64 Cail ionuthe
Missouri River 62364
65 Wee hour
66 High degrees: 5s
67 Aftershock By Dan Naddsr1
(c)2009Trbune Mednia sn Inn.

LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fal '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsenga comcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail, at the coiner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call fur details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
1029 Vaughn St.
6 bdrm house, Avail. May 2010
Copi Properties
(734) 663-5609
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
hel pwanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS ttuors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
cup. ncssary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
095
FACULTY COUPLE NEEDS a stu-
dent to pick up 13-year-old 8th grade
girl at Tappan Middle School at 3pm
daily and help with homework as
needed until 5:00 pm at our home.
Must be exp., fun, savvy with teens.
$12/hour. Contact tareid@umich.edu.
tCkt I '_ ff ~
E1i1
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Ginup
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Flonrida.
Info 44ation/Reservaions
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

g

a

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication
Rates: $4.30 per line forthe first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
. All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshavebeenestablished
* We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one oflour Account Executives

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, Octoher 22, 2009 - 7A

P SPECULATION
From Page 1A
versity regent David Brandon has
been highlighted as one of the pri-
mary frontrunners.
Brandon, the current president
and CEO of Domino's Pizza, played
as a back-up quarterback for Michi-
gan and was on threeBig Ten Cham-
pionship teams during his years at
the University in the early 1970s,
though he does not have any experi-
ence as an athletic director.
However, Brandon, 57, does run
a company with annual sales of $6
billion and has stayed very active
in University affairs. He has vol-
unteered time and money to help
spearhead the campaign to build
the University's new C.S. Mott Chil-
dren's Hospital and Women's Hos-
pital and renovate the University of
Michigan Museum of Art.
Inaninterview yesterday,Brandon
said pickingMartin'ssuccessorshould
be left to Coleman's discretion.
"It's not a job to campaign for.
It's not a job that gets elected. It's a
job that (Coleman) needs to choose
based on her criteria," Brandon said.
"Only Mary Sue Coleman knows
what she wants to do and how she
wants to do it."
Asked whether he wouldbe inter-
ested in becoming the University's
athletic director, Brandon would
not confirm or deny whether he had
any interest in the position.
"Iamnotcampaigningfor, against,
involved or uninvolved," Brandon
said. "I'm doing what I do for a liv-
ing and that is, right now, running
my Domino's Pizza corporation, and
that's ajob that I love very much."
Universitylecturer JohnU.Bacon
- a noted journalist and historian
of Michigan athletics - included
Brandon on his list of people he feels
are contenders for the job.
Bacon also mentioned current
Miami (Ohio) University Athletic

Director Brad Bates, current Uni-
versity of New York at Buffalo Ath-
letic Director Warde Manuel and
current Oregon State University
Athletic Director Bob De Carolis as
potential frontrunners.
"As far as candidates come, you
hear the same three or four names
floating around, but I don't know if
anybody has got an inside track at
this point," Bacon said.
Former Michigan football coach
Lloyd Carr, who stepped down from
coaching in November 2007, has
also been rumored as someone wor-
thy of consideration.
Carr, now 64, has worked in the
Athletic Department since 1980,
when he was hired as the defen-
sive secondary coach under Bo
Schembechler. His coaching career
at Michigan continued until he
resigned from his post as the head
football coach in November 2007.
After stepping down, Carr was
appointed associate athletic direc-
tor, a position he still holds.
While Michigan's head football
coach, Carr led the team to a bowl
game each year, securing five Big
Ten titles and the 1997 National
Championship. Carr was the second
Big Ten coach to ever have an unde-
feated season within three years of
becoming head coach. Over his time
as head coach, the team had a122-40
record overall.
For his leadership, Carr has been
awarded several honors, including
the Walter Camp Football Founda-
tion, American Football Coaches
Association, Football News, Max-
well Football Club, Woody Hayes
and Paul 'Bear' Bryant coach of the
year awards.
Carrtold AnnArbor.comhewould
not accept the position, if offered,
though a statement released yester-
day about Martin's retirement, did
not address whether he would be
interested in the job.
"In 2000 when Bill Martin
became the athletic director at

Michigan, we were well behind our
peers from a facilities standpoint.
Today, we are at the forefront and
the monumental changes that Bill
and his team have orchestrated
have positioned Michigan Athletics
in excellent position for decades to
come," Carr wrote. "I join the many
in expressing our appreciation and
gratitude."
The other rumored frontrunners
to succeed Martin - Bates, Manuel
and De Carolis - all have ties to
the University of Michigan, though
none as deep as Carr's.
Bates, who has served as the
athletic director at Miami (Ohio)
University since 2002, earned his
bachelor's and master's degree
from Michigan. Though he has not
worked for the Michigan's Ath-
letic Department, he was a walk-on
defensive back for Michigan from
1977 to 1981. He also worked as a
strength coach, assistant athletic
director, associate athletic director
and senior associate athletic direc-
tor at Vanderbilt University, before
assuming his position at Miami.
Manuel, a Michigan alum and
former football player under Bo
Schembechler, also has experience
in Michigan's Athletic Department.
Prior to signing on as the Univer-
sity of New York at Buffalo's athletic
director, he worked as an associate
athletic director at Michigan, where
he worked with the men's basketball
and football programs. Manual also
led a fundraising campaign in which
he raised millions for the Student-
Athlete Academic Center..
De Carolis spent 19 years on staff
at Michigan, where he served in
several positions, including softball
coach, associate athletic director
and senior director for financial
operations. He has been the athletic
director at Oregon State Univer-
sity since 2002. During his time at
Oregon State, he has eliminated an
accumulated $12.5 million budget
deficit and has grown the depart-

ment'sbudgetby more than $25 mil- right person at the right time to do
lion. In May 2006, De Carolis signed the job," Newman said. "But I think
a five-year contract extension with the next athletic director will have
the school, which is scheduled to to be the right person at the right
end on June 30, 2011. time to move the Athletic Depart-
University Regent Andrea Fis- ment forward."
cher Newman (R-Ann Arbor), who Newman said she has heard a
was a regent when Martin was great deal of speculation over who
hired as athletic director, said in an will replace Martin - including
interview yesterday that a number Manuel, Long and Brandon. How-
of backgrounds would prepare can- ever, she said the speculation is not
didates to be athletic director. serious.
"I think any name at this point
is nothing but speculation. I don't
think that anyone affiliated with
"I think any name the University has speculated on
t s p names,"Newmansaid."Nothinghas
at this point is been discussed or talked about."
Newman added she expected
nothing but rumors would continue to circulate
speculation." over Martin's replacement.
"We will all read speculation,"
she said. "It is sort of fun, I guess."
Speaking at his bi-weekly press
"I want the University to hire the conference yesterday, Michigan
best person for the job, whether that football coach Rich Rodriguez said
person has an athleticbackground, a he trusts that Coleman will select a
businessbackground, a combination qualified person to succeed Martin.
of both or an English background," "Our president, our administra-
Newman said, underscoring the tion, they'llhave a good plan and I'm
wide-ranging responsibilities of the sure they'll have a great AD coming
position. "I think that whenever you in here," Rodriguez said.
look to hire someone you look for "I think asa coach, all you can do
the best candidate to do the job, the is worryabout what you can control,"
overall job and not just aspects of it. he continued. "For me, it's trying to
"Obviously you have to be able to build the best football program in
manage a budget and you have to be America. That was the task that we
able to manage a multitude of busi- were put in front of us, and that's the
nesses that are ongoing on the ath- task that we work on daily."
letic campus," Newman continued. Asked whether he would prefer
"What you want is the person that the new athletic director to have
encompasses what you see as the prior experience with a large foot-
vision for the department." ball program, Rodriguez said he
Newman did not discount the hadn't given it much thought.
fact that Martin's replacement may "Again, I'm only worried about
nothave aprior connectionto Mich- what I can control, but I think all
igan. coaches want someone that under-
"Obviously, we have a strong tra- stands athletics," he said. "But I
dition at Michigan," she said. "Just don't think there's going to be any-
because someone didn't grow up body that wants the position that
at Michigan, doesn't mean they doesn't understand athletics."
wouldn't be a candidate for the job. However, Rodriguez said Mar-
"Bill Martin was certainly the tin's replacement should have the

same commitment to Michigan that
Martin has.
"I really haven't thought much
aboutit...butIthinkyouwantsome-
one that had the same kind of love
for this university that Bill Martin
has, and someone that understands
athletics and student-athletes and
what coaches want to accomplish,"
Rodriguez said.
Rodriguez also said Martin's
replacement would need to be able
to manage the increasingly complex
operations of intercollegiate athlet-
ics.
"I think it has become more
multi-facetedthanithas inthe past,"
Rodriguez said. "And that's natural,
because of, not just fundraising and
facility-raising and friend-raising
and the fiscal aspects of it, but the
media - and everything's so much
more transparent now in athletic
departments and in sports."
Michigan Baseball Coach Rich
Maloney said Martin's replacement
should be someone with strong
communicationskills, a deep under-
standing of the changing operations
of the NCAA and exceptional fore-
sight.
"We want somebody who would
want to continue building on the
great traditions that we have in the
athletic program in the university,"
Maloney said. "But in everything
that we do, a person of integrity
would be first and foremost."
"We're losing a strong leader
and we need to hire somebody
who is going to develop a deep love
for Michigan," Maloney added.
"That's going to be very important
that somebody (is hired) who real-
ly understands this culture here
because it's a deep, deep love that
coaches have for their institution
and the program so we want to have
every opportunity of continuing the
great traditions that we have."
- Managing Editor Courtney
Ratkowiak contributed to this report.


TEXTING
From Page 1A
from University alum Tim Bek-
kers, who proposed a text messag-
ing plan to McGee last spring.
Bekkers, who was an LSA
senior at the time of the proposal,
argued that if DPS could send text
messages to students, then why
couldn't that line of communica-
tion be opened up on both ends,
allowing students to send mes-

sages to DPS.
Bekkers said there are two
instances where reporting a crime
through text message would be
more useful than calling in.
"This is particularly important
in cases where you don't want to
give away your location, because
text messaging is silent," Bekkers
said. "Imagine either witnessinga
normal crime you'd like to report,
or one infinitely worse, like, God
forbid, a Virginia Tech situation.
You should be able to report a

crime without giving up your own
personal safety."
Bekkers also noted that the new
service would allow students with
hearing or speaking disabilities to
communicate with DPS for help.
"Most deaf and hard-of-hear-
ing students carry cell phones
to text message with people," he
said. "Now they can easily com-
municate with DPS, too."
Currently, there are only a cou-
ple of other locations across the
United States that have a text mes-

saging number to signal for help.
In June 2007, the Boston Police
Department launched a program,
called "Text a Tip," where citi-
zens can anonymously text a tip
about a crime.
However, as with any form of
technology, this system is not
entirely perfect.
One major concern is that the
victim's cell phone provider fails
to properly forward the emergen-
cy message to DPS.
For this reason, there are a

select few carriers in which this
number will not work. Certain
prepaid phones, especially those
through Metro PCS, or phones
without a text messaging plan are
unable to use the system.
Also, the University had to
ensure the carriers understood
the severity of these messages.
"What we understand now,
most uses of those text numbers
have been up to this point for peo-
ple to do more marketing-related
things, not necessarily emergency

messaging," Brownsaid. "An addi-
tional challenge was to have the
providers understand the urgent
nature of these messages." -
Overall, Brown said DPS
expects the new service to have
excellent results, noting that
shortly after it was unofficially
announced at the football game
this past Saturday, someone text-
messaged a problem occurring in
his or le sectonf. SIP yas "hie
to send help to the location and
resolve the situation.

GARDASIL.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16,and 18) Vaccine, Recombinant]
ITERESTEDl IN ARDASIL!
EARASI/L IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AND MANY
PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS* COVER IT.

TALK TO YOUR CAMPUSI
OR OTHER HEALTH CARE

'I


8A - Thursday, October 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Blue must play blue-collar
hockey to best Purple Eagles

4

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Wolverines have played
scrappy teams like Niagara before,
but recent struggles with similar
teams make tonight's matchup
against the Pur-
ple Eagles thatN
much more entic- Niagara at
ing. Michigan
Yesterday, Matchup:
Michigan associ- Niagara 0-2-1;
ate head coach Michigan1-1
MelPearson com- When
pared the Purple Tonight 7:35
Eagles' style ofT
play to Air Force Where:nYost
and Alaska-Fair- Ice Arena
banks. Last year, Live Blog:
the Wolverines' michigandaily.
season ended com/blogs/
with a 2-0 loss She game
to the Falcons in
the first round of the NCAA Tour-
nament. Michigan opened this
season with a 2-0 loss to the Nano-
oks. It was the first time Michigan
had been shut out in back-to-back
games since the 1942-43 season.
"A lot of these teams now, they
play solid defensively," Pearson said.
"They're going to get their breaks on
the power play or catch you in odd-
numbered rushes. They're all the
same. They pack it in defensively
and they don'tgive you much."
"You have to keep it simple and
at the same time get pucks and
players to the net. Don't look for
the cute, fancy, sexy goals."
The Wolverines couldn't con-
vert on their few chances a couple
weeks ago against the Nanooks in
Alaska. Playing simply is easy to
say, but it's another thing to go out
and actually play with poise.
Both Nanook goals came off of
Michigan mistakes, and Alaska-
Fairbanks tightened its defense
after taking the lead. If Michigan
turns the puck over tonight, it will
play right into Niagara's hands,
just as it did for the Nanooks.
"I think we have to get the puck
behind their D, get them moving,
make their D skate," junior for-
ward Louie Caporusso said. "Use
our speed to our advantage. And

use our puck skills to our advan-
tage. I think we have a bunch of
guys on this team that can really
control the puck and have great
hands."
During the past few seasons,
the Niagara has been notorious
for giving Michigan tough games.
Last year, the Wolverines won 4-2
in a tight contest. Two years ago,
Michigan won 5-1 over Niagara in
the first round of the NCAA Tour-
nament, but Hobey Baker Award
winner Kevin Porter scored four
goals.
"We expect a physical game,"
senior captain Chris Summers
said. "They're kinda known for

being a blue collar team, (and)
being a team that bangs bodies
out there ... We're going to have to
come out and play our style hockey
and take it right to them."
Blue-collar hockey is tough and
hard-hitting, but Michigan hasn't
played a game since Oct. 10. Beren-
son acknowledged that the team
could be rusty and needs a fast
start tonight.
"We have to play Michigan
hockey," Berensonsaid. "Andwhen
I say Michigan hockey, we have to
be rock solid defensively. We have
to force turnovers. Through good
forechecking, and winning more
than 50 percent of faceoffs, we

(can) get the puck. And then we
got to get the puck to the net and
put them on their heels when we
get the puck."
Summers said the team is
excited to get its home sched-
ule started. Berenson is 21-1-3 in
home openers during his coaching
career at Michigan, and the team
seems ready to avenge its poor play
against both the Nanooks and Air
Force.
"We got to work just as hard
as them," Caporusso said. "When
you're playing a big school like
ours, you can get revved up for it.
But I think we're goingto be revved
up for Niagara too, though."

'M' blanks Spartans
By MARK BURNS Megan Bower said. "We tend
Daily Sports Writer sometimes to get outside dominat-
ed, and teams have started to catch
EAST LANSING - Michigan onto that. So now we're trying to
volleyball player Lexi Zimmerman spread the set choice out."
let out a loud scream inside the Zimmerman - injured hand
Breslin Center last night. and all - still effectively managed
Except that scream wasn't in the balanced Wolverine offense
jubilation - it was in agony. The and confused Michigan State (2-7,
junior setter dislocated her thumb 14-7) all night.
early in the second set against Michigan used a variety of lob
Michigan State. shots, sets to the back row and
After lingering on the court for middle of the court, and slide sets
a minute with a Michigan trainer, - where a hitter cuts behind the
Zimmerman went into the locker setter - to generate its scoring.
room, where the Spartan team "We're trying to get more
doctor popped the thumb back into offense out of our team," Michigan
place. coach Mark Rosen said. "We've
Five minutes later, with tape on been working on it since the begin-
her right hand, the Barrington, Ill. ning of the season, and it's slowly
native returned to her team. starting to come."
"I'm really proud of her for com- Regardless of how well the
ing back and playing hard," senior offense played, there is still con-
outside hitter Juliana Paz said. cern over whether Zimmerman,
"That got us really motivated, tobe last year's AVCA All-America See-
honest, and we started to play for ond Team selection, is going to be
her tonight." all right.
Michigan (6-3 Big Ten, 18-4 Still,theWolverines tookagame
overall) used the added inspira- they needed to win to stay within
tion to dispose of its in-state rival reach of the top of the Big Ten.
in three sets (33-31, 25-22, 26-24) "Playing in a hostile environ-
while using an arsenal of hitters. ment, in an opposing gym and in
Sophomore Alex Hunt led the the Big Ten - they're a good team,"
offensive attack with 19 kills while Rosen said. "State beat USC this
Paz and senior Veronica Rood year and Illinois, so they're very
added 12 and 11 in the winning legit. For us to win in three sets,
effort. and two (of which were) really
"Our game plan every night is tight deucegames,I'mreally proud
to stay balanced," senior libero of how our kids played."

4

ARIEL BOND/Daily

Senior Chris Summers wil lead the Michigan hockey team's defensive attack tonight against Niagara.

i
a

*Ann Arbor 407 F Liberty St., (734) 669-8079
*Ann Arbor-Huron Village 3217 Washtenaw Blvd.
(734) 973-2043

*Belleville 9556 Belleville Rd., (734) 697-3500
*Ypsilanti 3765 Carpenter Rd., (734) 677-0707
*Open Sunday

Call a small business advisor at: (248) 538-5749
RadioShack. *ESmtsbie

For information on other AT&T
products call 1-800-613-9420
*AT&T imposer a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with obligations and charges imposed by State and Federal telecom regulations; State and Federal Universal Service charges; and surcharges for government
assessments on AT&T These fees are not taxes or government-required charges.
3G not available in allareas, Coverage is not available in allareas. Seecoveragemapatstoresfor details, Limited-time offer.Otherconditions&restrictionsapply.Seecontract&rateplan brochurefordetails. Subscriber mustfive &have amailing addr.within AT&T'sowned wirelessnetwork coverage area, Upto$36activ,
fee applies.Equipment price & avail may vary by mrk & may not be available from independent retailers Early Termination Fee: None i cancelled in the first 30 days, but up to $35 restocking fee may apply to equipment retuns;thereafter up to $175. Some agents impose addt tees, AT&T Promotion Card:USBConnect
Mercury price before AT&T Promotion Card, DataConnect plan & with 2-year contract is S119.99. Minimum $60 DataConnect plan tequired. Allow 60 days for fulfillment, Card may be used only in the U.S. & is valid for 120 days after issuance date but is not redeemable for cash & cannot be used for cash withdrawalat ATMs
or automated gasoline pumps. Card requesttmust be postmarked by 12,0/ll9 & you must be a customer for 30 consecutive days to receive card, Sales taxcalculated based on price of unactivated equipment. DataConnect plan is not unlimited & substantial charges may be incurred if included allowance is exceeded.
2009 AT&T Intellectual Property. Service provided by AT&T Mobility. All rights reserved. AT&T the A&T logo, and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies.Atother marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.

6


the b

-side

The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, October 22, 2009
M .
y4J
~U~L~\Et~UE.

weekend
essentials
Oct. 22 to Oct. 25
ON STAGE
It's time to escape
midterms ... with
Shakespeare! The
University Musical
Society's production of
Shakespeare's "Love's
Labour's Lost" opens
this week at the Power
Center. The comedy
details an all-too-famil-
iar problem: A young
king swears off women
in favor of focusing
on his studies. The
show starts tonight
and runs through Oct.
25. Tickets start at
$18, available through
www.ums.org.
SCREENPLAY
READING
Tonight at 7 p.m. at
UMMA's Helmut Stern
Auditorium, the Screen
Arts and Cultures
department will hold
a tribute reading of
an unfilmed screen-
play by SAC alumnus
Matthew Reichl, who
passed away this year
from cancer. The Hop-
wood Award-winning
screenplay, "Ageless,
Ohio," concerns a
father and son who
wander into a town
permanently stuck
in the 1950s. The
event is hosted by
Prof. Jim Burnstein.

A WEEK IN THE
LIFE OF THE
UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN
MARCHING
BAND
BY CAROLYN KLARECKI
DAILY TV/NEW MEDIA EDITOR

ou see them every Football Saturday.
The Big House erupts when they take
the field. They perform as a flawless
unit in which all individuals are constantly
aware of where they are on the field, what
their next move is and everything that's
happening around them. They practice
daily even in the harshest weather and
undergo extensive training. They are some
of the University's most talented students.
And no, they're not on the football team.
The Michigan Marching Band has been a
crucial part of the University's fabric since
1896, and for many football fans, the band
is just as important to the Big House expe-
rience as the game. The band is collected,
cohesive and professional when we see it on
the field. But we all know that the complex
halftime shows don't just happen with the
wave of the drum major's baton. What goes
into producing a new show each week? And
how is the band so damn good? It all rests on
the effort and dedication of its members.
Anyone who lives south of Hill Street has
probablyheard the MarchingBandbrazenly
practicing every day. And anyone near Elbel
Field at 4:45 p.m. on a weekday will hear the
sound of drums pounding in unison while
brassy scales grow louder and louder over
thumping rhythms. Practice begins each
day with a half hour of music rehearsal.
The band members usually receive their

show music several days before gameday so
they have sufficient time to memorize their
parts.
During last Monday's practice, all 328
students, in the Marching Band stood in
arched rows around the 50-yard line. The
musicians stood attentively, watching the
conductor for his signal. Band members
brought their instruments to their lips in
perfect unison to play a new song togeth-
er for the first time. At first, the resulting
music was good, but nothing spectacular.
But by only the third run through, it sound-
ed almost perfect.
The music for the band's last show - an
opera-themed routine for the Delaware
State game - was musically intricate, and
luckily the band had an unusually large
amount of time (two weeks, instead of the
typical one) to prepare for it. Even still,
every show has to be memorized and per-
formed while the band is in motion, adding
a certain amount of difficulty to the perfor-
mances. Because of this added performa-
tive dimension, band members must have
a great amount of dedication to learn the
music off of the field so they can perform
their choreographed parts well when they
take the field.
"(The students) are just so motivated to
be in this band - they're just so positive
about the energy they bring every day,"

said Scott Boerma, Director of Michigan
Marching and Athletic Bands. "They bring
the commitment to excellence; they bring
the understanding of the tradition of this
band that goes back to over a hundred years
of tradition."
"They're carrying on a legacy that came
before them and they understand that and
they take it very seriously," he added.
Music is only half of what marching band
is about. Drill - the actual marching and
formations displayed on the field - takes up
the rest of the practice. Between drill sets,
the marching band looks like any other
bunch of kids decked out in mostly maize
and blue hoodies and sweatpants. They just
happen to be carrying around trombones
and saxophones. Once they hear the drum
major's whistle, however, the band mem-
bers chant in unison, raise their instru-
ments and become a single, unified entity.
The 275 members that march the half-
time show trace the same path and play the
same measures over and over until the for-
mation exactly mirrors what was mapped
out on paper. Graduate students and other
students in leadership positions walk the
practice field and correct those who are out
of line while faculty members stand at the
top of a tower overseeing the field and occa-
sionally yelling out directions and remind-
See MARCHING BAND, Page 4B

PERFORMANCE
Love sketch comedy?
Then head on over to
Mendelssohn Theatre
tonight at 7 p.m. for
"Live from Michigan ...
It's Thursday Night!"
The show will feature
improvised live per-
formances and short
videos in the same
vein as "Saturday
Night Live." Campus
performing groups The
Friars and the Michi-
gan Bhangra Team will
perform, plus local
Ann Arbor band My
Dear Disco will show
off its new music
video. Tickets are $7.
CONCERT
The woman has paid
her dues: 12-time
Grammy Award winner
Emmylou Harris has
more statuettes than
most singer-songwrit-
ers have albums. And
at a ripe, silver-haired
68 years old, country's
coolest grandmother
is still touring as
hard as ever. Go see
her at the Michigan
Theater tomorrow
night with the Red
Dirt Boys and Buddy
Miller. Tickets start
at $35 and the show
kicks off at 7:30 p.m.

A BAND MEMBER'S TYPICAL DAILY SCHEDULE:

Sectionals are
underway at
Revelli Hall
and Elbel Field.
Students dis-
sect their music
with the other
members of
their section,
targeting par-
ticularly difficult
measures.

Students
carrying bulky
instrument
cases start to
trickle onto
the practice
field. They
socialize with
other students
or play through
a few measures
and scales to
warm up.

Marching Band
practice officially
begins with the
wind instruments
arched around
the 50-yard line
for music warm-
up and rehearsal.
They play through
scales and pre-
pare their show
music while the
twirlers stretch
and flag
choreography is
rehearsed nearby.

The drum line,
whose practice
outside Rev-
elli Hall could
be heard since
4 p.m., joins
the band,
allowing
for musical
rehearsal with
the full band.

The band
practices its
pre-game routine.
Twirlers and
flag-wavers join in,
bringing the entire
band together.
They form a larges
'M' on the field
and practice their
high-step march-
ing while playing
through "The Vic-
tors" and "Varsity"
multiple times.

Rehearsal for the
halftime show
begins. Each person
finds his or her spot
on the field and
patiently and metic-
ulously marches
the same course
over and over while
playing the accom-
panying music
until the director
is satisfied. Then,
the band continues
on to the next set
of movements.

Band practice
ends with
announce-
ments and
one last round
of "The
Victors."
Sections hud-
die up for more
specific
announce-
ments and
maybe a final
display of
section pride.


0

2B - Thursday, October 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


iPHONE APP

0
z
m
C
r-
-T
m

INTERWEB
EAVESDROPPING
(973): we were frolicking through
a fountain of pizza rolls. it was like
the best dream i ever had
Tila Tequila: Maybe I should do my
little Kung-Fu Sexy Karate Chop on
their asses! hahaa! JK! But yay send
me ur positive energies! I love u!
xox
Today, my math teacher decided to
use my acne as an example of sym-
metry in front of the whole class.
FM L

AHMMM OH YEAH PRO
The name might sound bawdy, and
the premise for the game most definitely
is: You need to fart, so release your farts
in time with the sound of nearby rush-
ing buses to mask the roaring sound.
You don't want to scare off members of
the opposite sex (especially bikini-clad
ladies)with your flatulence, sotime your
farts well, young grasshopper.

High five
A notable Ann Arborite gives five
answers to a curious question.
Colleen Seifert
Professor, DepartmentofPsychology
What are your favorite mind-trip films?
1. "The Sixth Sense" (1999): I still remember the wonderful sense of awe
inspired by the moment of realization when the movie finally reveals its secret.
The fun is, can you get there first? Perfect for Halloween!
2. "Memento" (2000): The best movie about memory ever made. Its layer-
ing of past and present remains intriguing in multiple viewings. It even inspired
a famous scientist to renounce his theory of human cognition because it could
never account forthe memory disorder depicted here. Unfortunately for him, this
is a fictional case.
3. "Betrayal" (1983): Again with the precise reverse chronological ordering
of complex interpersonal events! The psychologist in me loves tracing the ante-
cedents of our beliefs and behavior, way back to the most unintentional interac-
tions.
4."Le retour de Martin Guerre" (1982): Your identity is a core psychological
question; but not that long ago, you could simply leave town and assume another
one. What if someone assumed yours, and your spouse, friends and family liked
them better?
5. "The Crying Game" (1992): This movie was ruined for me by another
psychologist at a happy hour. He tried to obliquely refer to its twist as, "You see
something somewhere you would never expect." If this does not give it away for
you too, then see this movie.
SINGLE REVIEW
LOS CAMPESINOS!
"THE SEA IS A GOOD PLACE TO THINK OF THE FUTURE"
Picture a bunch of angsty, Ray-Ban-wearing youths staring pensively at the sea
contemplating life. This ridiculously melodramatic image sums up the latest Los
Campesinos! track. With a slow buildup of smashing cymbals and climactic key-
boards, the song has a surprisingly mature instrumental quality that makes up for
weepy, self-pitying lyrics like "And all you can hear is the sound of your own heart."
Teens on both sides of the pond will be locking their bedroom doors, turning the
track up full blast and drowning their bogus sorrows while older listeners will find
it a guilty, nostalgic pleasure.
KRISTYNACHO

ONLINE GAMES OF THE WEEK

THE BOUNCY CHALLENGE CHUCK A BOOM
In "The Bouncy Challenge," you are tasked with careening a In a world where bombs are bouncy and everythingsparkles
little red bouncy ball through a tricky maze as quickly as pos- with the joy of life, "Chuck a Boom" challenges us to combine
sible. Medals are awarded based on how fast and in how few timing and technique in a blow-it-all-up bash. Throw bombs
clicks you can beat each level, so there's always another goal to to and fro, attempting to explode your quota of stars. Cannons,
strive for. Sometimes quite easy, sometimes frustratingly dif- walls and other funky items add strategy to an already cute and
ficult, the game averages out to a simple, happy medium. challenging creation.
Find it at: Find it at:
http://tinyurl.com/playthebouncychallenge http://tinyarl.csm/playthechsckabssm

A Friend Dies. Who Cares?

4

a

Toxic drinking is an epidemic on
campuses all across America.
It means consuming so much alcohol
the drinker passes out. But while "sleeping
it off," the victim may be quietly dying.
When you come right down to it, students
themselves are the best ones to tackle
this problem. So, in growing numbers,
Stony Brook students have joined together
in the Red Watch Band movement.
Working with experts, they fine-tuned a
course in techniques to handle these
alcohol emergencies. Red Watch Band
members can act fast, when every second
counts.They know the quick steps they
can take to rescue a passed-out student
from a drinking death, and can immediately
summon professional help. Everyone
completing the course is given the
distinctive red watch for identification.
Since its inception at Stony Brook
University in March 2009, approximately
40 schools across the country have signed
on to implement this lifesaving program.
To prevent toxic drinking deaths, go to
redwatchband.org

0
u
0
as
L
s
m
C
N
co
m
z
D
STONI X
8
t
B-R4\N\'%-K (n
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

I
0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 22, 2009 - 3B

Ann Arbor's little
slice ofItaly

Ann Arbor, let's talk pizza.
In our college town, it's
often mass-produced,
made on the fly for the phalanxes
of students curled around corners
at the usual
hot spots,
namely Back-
room, Bell's,
Cottage Inn,
NYPD and y
Pizza House. A
sample of the
crowd knock- TKA
ing back beers KAICK
at Charley's
surely would agree that noth-
ing satisfies a case of late-night
munchies like agreasy, cheesy, $1
slice from across the street. I can't
argue with my college brethren's
choice of midnight snack. Late
night pizza is the greatest.
The demand for the product is
high, the customer is willing and
hunger is on the line, literally.
Eating cheap, slapdash slices at
campus haunts is clearly a must-do
college experience and Ann Arbor
has plenty of options. But more
often than not the crusts are bland,
the sauce weak, the cheese qual-
ity poor and the topping selection
sparse.
These low standards make a
smatteringof chili flakes, extra
parmesan and a big gulp of soda
(yes, "soda" - not "pop") almost a
necessity in the quest to get it all
down successfullybefore heading
to the next party or back home
to the comfortable recesses of
your sheets. It's safe to say that
most Michigan students don't
seek out pizza places open past 11
p.m. for the sake of their sensitive
taste buds. But if we did, there is
no question: In terms of quality,
the cheese stands alone. Silvio's
Organic Pizza surpasses the com-
petition.
Silvio's commitment to locally
bought fresh ingredients and
innovative flavor combinations
yields a superior slice - one that
a surprisingly large number of
Ann Arborites have yet to try.
What's more, Silvio's - like its
endemically greasy, hyper-cheesy
counterparts - is also open late:
untif 3 a.i onFridy End T iida
nights. That's worth noting, espe-
cially if you find yourself around
North University Avenue in need
of a snack at 2 a.m. Silvio's location
also makes it the perfect lunch
spot, a stone's throw from the Diag
and a welcome Mom-and-Pop
alternative to the Panera, Chipotle,
Noodles & Company and Star-
bucks that surround it.
The restaurant itself, with its
gray-tiled floor, red tabletops, Ital-
ian flags and children's colored
pencil drawings hanging on the
cream-colored and exposed-brick
walls is reminiscent oftheboard-
walk eateries I used to go to with
family duringsummer vacations at
the beach. Those memories and the

soft yellow lighting inspire warm
fuzzy feelings, only furthered by
the glorious smells radiating from
the industrial-sized oven.
The neatest parts of the whole
experience, besides the vintage
stain-glass Coca-Cola clock and
the fact that the restaurant is raf-
fling off two round-trip tickets to
Italy, is the experiments taking
place in that kitchen. At Silvio's
you'll find ingredient combinations
you've never even imagined. Try a
potato, blue cheese and rosemary
pizza, or maybe a bowl of dande-
lion soup. The most popular of
these crazy creations is the truffle
pizza - fontina cheese, shitake
mushrooms and white truffle oil.
Hold the tomato sauce - this thing
is out of this world. Other quirky
finds include breakfast pizza and
the "Sweet Dream" pizza, a super
alternative to insomnia cook-
ies, topped with custard cream,
Nutella and powdered sugar. If
you desire somethingasweet, but
less colossal than a whole pizza,
you'd be a fool to pass up the can-
nolis - tube-shaped shells of fried
pastry dough with a sweet vanilla
or chocolate custard filling.
Silvio's creations may seem
unorthodoxbut they're almost
always a success. It's refreshing to
see such a commitment to innova-
At Silvio's,
organic doesn't
mean orthodox.
tion, especially in a market that
usually restricts itself to the basics:
cheese, pepperoni and ... more
cheese. Moreover, Silvio's is com-
mitted to producing a healthy meal
for its patrons. Every pizza is pat-
ted out by hand, made with organ-
ic ingredients and produced using
sustainable food practices. Silvio
Medoro and family, who work and
run the restaurant, buy their certi-,
fied organic ingredients from local
providers. You may even recognize
the tastetihe r g theese .e t
from another Ann Arbor favorite:
Zingerman's.
If the perfection of the crust,
succulent flavor collaborations and
extensive menu are not enough
to draw you to Silvio's, try a piece
for the authenticity of the flavors.
They're as genuine as any I tried
on my trip to Italy because Silvio
and his family are actually from
Italy. Always, always, always ask
about the special, and if you can't
make it out of bed, call in. They
deliver!
Kalick thinks she's too good
to stand in line at Backroom like
everyone else. Tell her why she's
an elitist at lkalick umich.edu.

I'd rather not.

Cult with personality

At the State Theater, 'Rocky
Horror' continues its long
run as a midnight staple
By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
Seeing "The Rocky Horror Picture Show"
in the privacy of your own home is a bizarre
experience, and it leaves you baffled. Taken on
its own merits, the film is
a sexually charged Fran-
kenstein's Monster stitched T
together from various pop- Horror
culture elements: B-movie Picture Show
horror, jukebox musical and
circus sideshow. The plot is Tomorrow
some nonsense about a mad and Saturday
scientist named Dr. Frank- at midnight
N-Furter (Tim Curry) who At the State Theater
corrupts the sexuality of a
young engaged couple while
building his own Speedo-clad sex slave. The
film is still fun for those unfamiliar, but almost
incomprehensibly so.
As "Rocky" fans might say, though, it's the
midnight screenings that really drive you insa-
a-a-ayne.
"I actually saw the movie for the first time
before a midnight showing, and I was like, 'This
is a weird movie,' " recalls Charlotte Raines, a
School of Music, Theater & Dance junior. "And
my friend was like, 'No Charlotte, you have to go
to a midnight showing. It will change your life."'
Raines attended her first midnight showing
in her senior year of high school. Since then, she
has attended many more in New York, Jackson
and Ann Arbor, and she also played a Phan-
tom (a member of the ensemble) in MUSKET's
2007 production of the original Broadway stage
play. Such is the transformative power of seeing
"Rocky Horror" with the right audience.
Simply put, a midnight screening of "The
Rocky Horror Picture Show" is unlike anything
else in popular culture. It lies somewhere in the
intersection between film, live musical theater,
burlesque show and food fight. The film, which
flopped during its initial release in 1975, has
gained eternal life in the decades since thanks
to a freakishly devoted global fan base. The
elaborate spectacles staged around the midnight
screenings have transformed "Rocky Horror"
into arguably the biggest cult film of all time.
The State Theater knows how to cultivate
Ann Arbor's population of "Rocky" fanatics,
and tomorrow and Saturday it will continue the
long-standing tradition of the midnight screen-
ings, scheduled as usual just before Halloween.
This year the theater will be upping the ante by
hiring Tickled Fancy Burlesque Company for
the event.
"We were trying to think of ways to make
midnight movies a bigger production," said
Christine Tremblay, assistant manager of the
State Theater.
For the past couple of years the theater has
brought in Dynamic Tension, Inc., a performance
troupe that specializes in "Rocky Horror," but
this year it decided to mix things up a bit.
If you're a "Rocky Horror" virgin - some,

one wh 's never attended a midnight screening
before - you're probably asking why it's neces-
sary to even hire a performance group in the
first place. After all, it's just a movie, right?
Wrong. There are actually three components
to the midnight showings that don't involve the
movie actually playing on the screen. The first
of these components is a "shadow cast," a group
that acts out musical numbers and other scenes
from the film in front of the screen while it plays
behind them.
"It's like a live show and a movie at the same
time," explained Raines, who will be helping out
with production aspects of this year's shadow
cast.
The cast doesn't do anything halfway: It fully
commits itself to the roles, using props and dress-
ing up in the appropriate costumes, which more
often than not involve drag, heavy makeup and
fishnet stockings. The shadow cast also usu-
ally performs a pre-show, which could incorpo-
rate anything from the "Thriller" dance to the
"deflowering" of the virgins in the audience (see-.
ing who can make the best orgasm noises, etc.).
Secondly, there are the "callbacks" - words
and phrases that the audience is primed to yell
at the screen duringcertain moments. Although
the exactcallbacks vary between locations,some
are universal. Yelling "Asshole!" at the character
of Brad Majors (Barry Bostwick) and "Slut!" at
Janet Weiss (Susan Sarandon), for example, are
standard procedures. The callbacks help to unite
the community in the theater and transform the
proceedings into a much more participatory
experience. Everyone knows what to say and at

what times.
Jeffrey Zebrowski, a fifth-year Residential
College senior and "Rocky Horror" devotee,
remembers how he had read an audience partic-
ipation script for the film online before attend-
ing his first midnight screening so he wouldn't
be left in the dark. He didn't want to stand out
. as a virgin, because it's easy for the audience to
hone in on those not participating. Zebrowski
admits that he'll target virgins at the screenings,
as well.
The third component at the midnight show-
ings is the use of props. At many of the perfor-
mances, audience members will bring objects to
the theater that are then thrown at key moments
in the film: rice during the opening wedding
scene, toast when one of the characters proposes
a toast, toilet paper when Brad exclaims, "Great
Scott!" and much more. in recent years, includ-
ing this year, the State Theater has banned the
use of props to help with the cleanup process,
much to the annoyance of "Rocky" fans.
Still, Zebrowski can understand why it was
necessary to stop the props.
"When people get water thrown on them,
when they get rice thrown on them., (the theater
managers) aren't too thrilled," he said with a
laugh.
But props or no props, the legacy of "Rocky
Horror" will live on for a long time, and this
Friday and Saturday all of the cult's members
will once again do the "The Time Warp" in the
aisles of the State Theater.:Buy your $8 ticket in
advance, because they'll sell out. Fishnet stock-
ings optional - but encouraged.


International
Pathways
Today!
International Opportunities Fair
2-6 pm, Michigan Union
Meet representatives of 55+ organizations and explore options for:
* internships
" volunteering
" teaching abroad
" international careers
Tonight!
The International Careers Speaker Series wraps up with:
Peace Corps & Your International Career
7-8:30 PM, Michigan Union
Need more information?
647-a2299sicoverseas@umich.edu . http://internationacenter.umich.edu/swt
Sponsored by:
The Career Center - The center for Global Health - The center for Global and Intercultural study
College of Engineering - Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy - Germanic Languages and Literatures
IternationalCenter ~ Intem ational institute
the School of Information~ The School of Natural Resources and the Environment
The School of Pubic Health ~ The School OT Social Work

COURTESY TWENTIETH CENTURY-FOX I
A,


0

4B - Thursday, October 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MARCHING BAND
From Page 1B
ers to individuals.
Despite the hard work everyone puts
into the Marching Band, no one seems
to grow sick of it. Revelli Hall (the band's
headquarters) is usually full of students
practicing their flag choreography, run-
ning through music with their sections or
just socializing with other band members
hours before practice begins.
Last Thursday, the band rehearsed
in rainy, 30-degree weather. Even when
people's breaths were visible and their
toes were growing numb, a couple mem-
bers confidently shed their shirts and
rehearsed the pre-game routine with
smiles on their faces. Perhaps it wasn't
the safest display of band enthusiasm, but
it was surely indicative of how much the
students are willing to go through for the
band. What makes this stressful environ-
ment enjoyable is the sense of camarade-
rie and intra-section spirit.
"My favorite part has to be the people,"
said LSA senior and trumpet rank leader
Michael Rudowski. "Coming in as a fresh-
man to the University ... you have a com-
munity of 300 people (in the band) ... and,
being a trumpet, I have a really large sec-
tion of 62 members - that's how large my
high school band was. I don't think social-
ly, college would've played out the same
way if I wasn't a member of the band from
day one."
Community and tradition are impor-
tant to the band - the trumpet section
makes a point of practicing for the band's
weekly touch football tournament before
rehearsal; the euphonium players have
a tradition of dressing up in accordance
with the theme of that week's show (last
Friday, they dressed as characters from
the four operas presented in the halftime

performance).
After each practice the band huddles
together for announcements. Some are
important, like reminders about Basket-
ball Band. Others, including epic declara-
tions of band members' birthdays and the
resulting number of cheers correspond-
ing with years of age, just add to the fun.
Before leaving the field, the band sings in
support of defeating the football team's
upcoming opponent and plays one final
round of "The Victors."
"('The Victors') is an iconic fight song -
the best fight song in the country, in the
world, no matter what anyone says," said
Drum Major David Hines Jr. "The first
time I heard myself on a recorded play of
"The Victors" - there's nothing else like
that. It's definitely something special."
The band members have an indescrib-
able amount of spirit. And not just toward
marching band. Their enthusiasm toward
Michigan football is tangible.
In the tunnel before the Delaware
State game, cheers of support and shouts
of good luck between the band, the foot-
ball team, the cheerleaders and the dance
team echo deafeningly, mixing to create
an unmatchable air of enthusiasm.
"We're all there to support the team
and generate excitement in the stadium,"
Boerma said.
The community surrounding the
Marching Band doesn't just extend to
band members and other football-centric
-student teams. Despite the low tempera-
tures on Friday evening and Saturday
morning, the band's last few practices
attracted quite a crowd. Ranging in ages
from eight months to 80 years, people
bundled up in Michigan regalia came out
to support the band. Some visitors came to
watch sons or daughters and others came
to support friends. And all had nothing
but respect for the marching band.
With such a diverse audience. the band

0

I

This season's Marching Band has 328 members.
has the responsibility and opportunity to
provide music that appeals to all specta-
tors.
"The hardest thing about what we do
is the fact that we have 110,000 people all
with different preferences of what they'd
like to hear, so we try to appeal to every-
body at some point in the season," Boerma
said. "It's just a process of trying to find a
good balance to connect with everybody
at some point."
Approximately 110,000 people eager-
ly await the band's entrance in the Big
Mouse before kickoff of every home game,
but for band members, the Saturday fes-
tivities start much earlier. For the noon
game against Delaware State, the Sat-
urday Marching Band practice began
promptly at 7:30 a.m. While even the most
dedicated pre-gamers were still in bed,
328 students were up and preparing for a
busy day, watching the sun rise over Elbel
Field in 25-degree weather. About two
hours later, after final run-throughs of
music and marching, the practice ended
and band members dispersed to tailgate,
eat breakfast with members of Delaware
State's band and de-thaw.
The drum line, considered by many to
be the centerpiece of the Marching Band,
reconvened for its weekly pre-game step
show outside of Revelli Hall at 10:30 a.m.
The waiting audience was treated to the
drum line's impressive rhythms - it was
difficult to spot anyone in the crowd
who wasn't completely captivated by the
beat. The informal concert ended with
a musically and visually complex piece:
Drummers placed their drums on stands
and struck them as the performers spun
around and wove between one another.
Cymbal plsayers worked together to create
the accompainying crashes. The cadence

became more of a dance, instilling a tre- lifetime opportunities. The band arguably
mendous amount of energy in the excited has the best seats at the game, and when
crowd. the team does well, the experience can
The fans then fell in behind the band make for some incredible memories.
and followed as it marched toward the "We did the Rose Bowl our freshman
Big House. The band played "The Victors" year, and we took very few freshman, and
once more before filing into the tunnel. so to be able to go (was) unbelievable,"
The suspense and energy inside the tun- Rudowski said. "You know, you're in band
nel was unparalleled, as the band belted asa freshman and you're goingto Califor-

40

community f
300 peop187)
- Michael RuddskP'
Trumpet rank leader
"Eye of the Tiger" loud and clear.
The band cheered with wild excite-
ment as the Michigan football team came
in from the field. The two groups joined
in the tunnel, and immediately the band
transformed into a stoic, professional
militia at the sight of the Delaware State
team. Before marching onto the field, the
band huddled together, arms across each
other's shoulders, to sing "The Yellow
and Blue."
"I like a lot of things about band week,"
Hines Jr. said, "but you practice every
week just leading up to the game."
Being a part of the Marching Band also
provides many students with once-in-a-

over our flight plans ... They sent three
quarters of the band home from Pasadena
hours after the game ended," Rudowski
recalled. "We played 'The Victors' very
slowly as they were processing the coffin
by ... It was very powerful."
Through its activities outside of Satur-
day performances, it's easy to see that the
Marching Band is made of much more
than uniforms and music. The halftime
shows students see on the field are the
products of 328 students' devotion for
music and marching, and the end result
of hours of physical and mental sacrifice
- though no member would call it one.
This loyalty has fostered a unique family
on campus.
"It's the students that make this band;
the students that bring the drive and the
talent and the smarts and the desire to
be excellent," Boerma said. "And without
that drive, without that internal commit-
ment to making this program great, none
of us could've made this happen."

I
I


U

'CANDYMAN' (1992)

4

TO WRITE OR NOT TO WRITE,
THAT IS THE QUESTION.
DUMB QUESTION. WRITE FOR DAILY ARTS.
E-mail battlebots umichaedtui
for an application.

The 'Candyman' can

15% Discount FREE Parking in front.
for patients & GRO BLUE
caregivers! Indoor Gardening Supplies
15% off your $75 or 207 W. Liberty St.
more purchase or Ann Arbor, MI 48104
10% off a purchase (734) 913-2750
less than $75! www.gro-blue.com

By KAVI PANDEY
Daily Arts Writer
For children sauntering through
the aisles of the video store peek-
ing at R-rated movies they would
have to wait an eternity to see, one
film in particular likely sends chills
down their prepubescent spines:
"Candyman."
The title's promise of delectable,
pleasant mirth is immediately shat-
tered by the film cover's terrifying
visual of a blood-red eye with a
menacing, man-shaped shadow for
a pupil and a solitary bee sitting on
the eyelid. The tagline is equally
horrific - "We dare you to say his
name five times!" - as it creates an
insatiable desireto test the declara-
tion while dreading the potential
consequences.
In the film, repeating the phrase
causes the Candyman (Tony Todd,
TV's,"Chuck") to appear immedi-
ately behind the summoner, and he
proceeds to hook the person and
anybody in the vicinity from"groin
to gullet." But this isn't just another
slasher film with the villain cutting
up an endless supply of silly teens
who dare test the myth. Instead,
"Candyman" serves as an intelli-
gent psychological thriller, exam-
ining the impact of an urban legend
on the public and individual psyche,
while providing enough shocks and
chills to be sincerely scary.
The film's lead, Helen Lyle
(Virginia Madsen, "Sideways"),
happens to be a graduate student
researching urban legends, spe-
cifically the story of the Candyman.
Helen uncovers that residents of a
crime-infested, low-income hous-
ing project are connecting a series
of gruesome deaths to the myth
of the Candyman, who is said to
reside in the city. Here, in the der-
elict, graffiti-strewn buildings of
the project, complete with bark-
ing pit bulls and threatening gang
members, Helen begins her inves-
tigation. Does the Candyman actu-
ally exist or are criminals merely
exploiting the legend to terrorize
the community?
The answer remains intention-
ally ambiguous throughout the
film. Even when Helen foolishly
summons the Candyman and he
begins to slay her acquaintances, it
is never clear if the murders are the

doings of this wraith-like figure or,
even more outlandishly, if Helen is
committing them herselfin a mani-
acal trance.
On screen, it appears as though
the Candyman is cutting through
the victims, but these may just be
images formulated by her mind.
After all,behind her tough exterior,
Helen has a very vulnerable mind,
constantly questioning her hus-
band's fidelity. The movie suggests
that such a frail mind is susceptible
to manipulation - perhaps Helen's
subconsciousis absorbingtheurban
legend and using it as an excuse to
expel frustrations by murdering
people. Then again, much of the
dismemberment in the film would
require alot of strength, thus mak-
When childhood
fears come true,
ing it equally likelythat the illusory
Candyman is the true culprit.
The Candyman stands alongside
some of the horror genre's greatest
menaces, yet he is distinct in his
approach and appearance. Unlike
Jason Voorhees of "Friday the
13th" fame and countless other vil-
lains, the Candyman doesn't hide
behind a mask. His intense visage
is revealed to the viewer, allowing
for a hint of humanity in what is
normally a soulless character. The
wise, brooding figure is surpris-
ingly insightful, making fascinat-
ing proclamations about the power
of his legend.
Those concerned that "Candy-
man" might.be overtly philosophi-
cal need not worry - the film
contains all the elements of a classic
horror thrill ride. It is consistently
suspenseful because of its dimly lit
scenes,sharpeditingandharrowing
Philip Glass score. A swarm of bees
fills the revolting creature quota,
and there is a satisfying but not
excessive number of gruesome-yet-
awesome deaths. Because of this,
"Candyman" works on multiple lev-
els. The film's deeper subtext can be
ignoredby those seeking a diversion
or adopted by those searching for a
little"more"fromtheirhorrorfilms.
Either way, "Candyman" is amemo-
rable frightener.

0

I

4

0

I




w

w

w


w

w

w

8C Faeoff- Ocober22, 0

HOGAN
From page 4C
Michigan's starting goalten-
der.
After surrendering seven
goals to North Dakota in the
first round of the 2007 NCAA
Tournament, Sauer allowed
three goals in the first period of
Michigan's Frozen Four game
against Notre Dame. Berenson
pulled Sauer after the terrible
first period. Hogan, a fresh-
man at the time, took his place
between the pipes in the do-
or-die playoff game, allowing
only one goal in overtime and
one in regulation, but it wasn't
enough. Sauer's poor perfor-
mance doomed the Wolverines
with a 5-4 overtime loss.
"The reason (the goalie bat-
tle) came about was because
Billy Sauer's playoff record
was really not that strong in
his first year or two," Berenson
said. "For our team to be the
team we want, we're going to
have to have more competitive
goaltending."
The two had very little in
common as goalies. Blackburn,
now Michigan's goalie coach,
describes Sauer as "laid back"
both off the ice and on. But
his playoff collapses showed
that Sauer was more prone to
hot and cold performances.

Conversely, Hogan was even-
keeled between the pipes, sus-
taining focus through most
games, despite his hot-headed
practice demeanor.
Hogan maintains that the
two had a healthy position bat-
tle, but he'll be the first to say
that the two weren't the best
of friends.
"It is like every other goal-
ie competition," Hogan said.
"You're both fighting for a
position, but you don't want to
get too close."
According to Hogan, the
competition strengthened his
game mentally and improved
his focus on the ice.
And on a team like Michi-
gan, a goaltender's focus often
becomes the deciding factor in
close games.
Michigan's defense shut
down the Falcons' offense in
the Wolverines' first-round
NCAA Tournament loss last
season. But the two goals that
slipped past Hogan came on
great scoring opportunities
after he had stood in net for
several minutes straight with-
out seeing any action.
Such a shot imbalance forc-
es goaltenders to be on their
toes at all times, which takes a
great deal of concentration for
any college-level netminder.
"The type of game that
Michigan plays is a mental

challenge for any of the goal-
ies that play here," said Scar-
pace, who is now the team's
video coordinator. "It's not
like you're getting a lot of shots
every night. You're getting
underworked, so it's a men-
tal challenge to stay in games
and make the saves you have to
make. You have to be ready to
make a difference. "
And after going with a two-
goalie system for much of the
first half of last season, Beren-
son decided to start the goal-
tender he felt would deal best
with that mental challenge.
Blackburn says it was only
so long before Berenson made
it clear that the Wolverines
would be a one-goalie team.
"It was two guys fight-
ing for a No. 1 spot to play all
the games," Blackburn said.
"Sooner or later, we were going
to choose one guy ... Every
time Hogie touched the ice, he
won. And when Billy played,
we didn't win. Just wins made
the decision for us."
So Hogan took to the ice
with the tentative No. 1 tag
and Sauer still pushing the
sophomore for playing time.
With the slightest mistake and
Hogan knew that his starting
job between the pipes could be
taken away.
"Every game, I was look-
ing over my shoulder," Hogan
said. "There was even
games when I didn't
let many goals in and
we weren't playing the
best team, but I may
not have played well.
I'm always second
guessing myself, but
I think that's good. It
keeps me always on my
toes."
Thisyear,with Sauer
graduated, Hogan
s is the clear starter
between the pipes for
the Wolverines.
S His teammates, as
z well as Berenson, con-
3 tend that Hunwick
z continues to push
Hogan on a daily basis.
But with just six min-
o utes in relief against
n Nebraska-Omaha in
the 2007-08 season,
Hunwick won't force
Hogan to look over his
shoulder after every

mistake. season valor, however, lay
That kind of confidence, strictly between the pipes at
according to Blackburn, can the Bridgeport Arena last year,
make a noticeable difference where he allowed the game's
in a goaltender's performance, only two goals.
especially with Michigan's The netminder's early strug-
high-pressure style. It's some- gles are of little concern to the
thing Blackburn can relate to Wolverines' coaches, however,
from his own experience in net who admit the transformation
for the Wolverines. from last year to this year is
"The pressure is always staggering. And the fact that
there, but there's less pres- Hogan had to earn his spot as
sure," he said. "You know the starting goalie last year, and
you're the guy, you know you're several times before, proves
going to play, and you know even further that he's more
that if you have a bad game you than capable of shouldering the
can go in and make up for it the load of a postseason run. With
next night." no prior experience, Hogan
Berenson and the rest of the came in against Notre Dame in
Wolverines will tell you that 2007 and kept the Wolverines
Hogan's biggest change this in it before their comeback bid
season is his confidence in the ended in overtime.
net, a direct byproduct of his "Bryan had to work and bide
battle with Sauer. But Beren- his time to be the man here,"
son isn't surprised by the net- Scarpace said. "The goalie I see
minder's newfound poise. out there now is a kid that is
Despite the loss in last year's focused and ready just as Turco,
NCAA Tournament, the long- Blackburn and (former Wolver-
time coach affirms that Hogan ine Steve) Shields were."
has the ability to win in high- And he'll have to be focused
pressure situations and most if Michigan is meant to over-
importantly in the postseason. come its perennial postseason
He saw it when Hogan played . goalie collapse.
junior hockey, and he saw it Hogan says his father, Jim,
when Hogan took the ice as a used to always poke fun at him
freshman against Notre Dame, for "coming through the back-
despite the losing effort. door" everywhere he went.
"He showed he could play in With the Lincoln Stars,
a game where he had to make Hogan unseated entrenched
the difference," Berenson said. starter Steve Jakiel, and again
"He's showed me that, and I with the Wolverines last year,
just thought that he reminded Hogan came through "the back-
me of Turco." door" to win the starting job.
"It's been like that my whole
BACK DOOR MENTALITY life," Hogan said. "And it's
To Berenson, it's clear that going to be like that wherever
the two National Champion- you go."
shipsthat Turco helped attain in That underdog mindset and
his four years at Michigan mean mental toughness distinguish-
more than any All-America dis- es him from any of the goalies
tinction or school records. Michigan has had in the past
Turco was immune to a 20 years, including Turco, all
postseason goalie collapse, of whom were nearly undis-
taking the Wolverines to the puted starters.
Frozen Four every year he Hogan may only have a few
donned the maize and blue. games of postseason experi-
And although Berenson is a ence, but a lifetime of being
bit hesitant to make the com- the underdog and an unrivaled
parison, Turco and Hogan intensity at the position could
play a similar game, especially be enough to distinguish him
in their abilities to handle the with the likes of Turco.
puck and help the defense. "Here's a player that hasn't
With the game on the line been drafted, and he doesn't
in the 1998 National Champi- have the hoopla or the atten-
onship, Turco preserved his tion that drafted players get,"
reputation as a clutch net- Berenson said. "He's going to
minder once again. Hogan's surprise a lot of people, and he
only true assessment-of post- probably already has."

UN VERS TY OF MICII GA
Half-off exercise classes
and semester passes!
Register online at
www.umoveregister.org or in the
UMove Fitness office in
3064 Central Campus
Recreation Building
a beginning Tuesday, October 27.
Or call us at 734.764.1342.
step - core 'bootcamp "'swim conditioning'" more!

A.'
.'-9 r
''.






I S.. 0 ME

table of contents
PAGE PAGE PAGE
The Daily hockey beat Marty Turco was the last The Wolverines'tradi-
tells you how the CCHA goalie to win a national tion from the blue line
will shake out this year. title. Is Hogan next? .is apparent this season.

Broomball
Men/Women

Register at:
IM Sports Building
Season
October 29 - November 18

ZACHARY MEISNER/Daily

D-ROW
From page 6C
higher.
"We're getting better from
last year," Burlon said. "You
saw last year how we went
down with three injuries to
defensemen, including myself,
and I think we still held our
own. Having everyone back
and healthy this year, we're
going to be that much better."
The six returning defense-
men each played in at least
25 games last year, even with
the abundance of injuries.
Five of those six - Summers,
Burlon, senior Steve Kampfer
and juniors Chad Langlais and.
Ttistin Llewellyn - figure to
play in every game. The sixth,
Pateryn, will battle for the
final spot with Moffie.
And that isn't a knock on
Pateryn. Rather, it's a testa-
ment to the team's great depth
and Moffie's upside.
"They're probably going to
be fighting along with (senior
Eric) Elmblad for a spot all
year long," Powers said.
"Now, the other five guys
have a little more experience.
But if anybody in that group
starts slipping, we're com-
fortable that with our depth
with Moffie, Pateryn and
Elmblad."
In Michigan's first few
games, defensemen have
joined the rush and forwards
have often looked to open men

on the point on the forecheck.
"The defense jumping up
in the rush and being a part
of the play offensively is a big
deal," Caporusso said. "If the
defensemen aren't a part of
the rush, then it's just three-
on-three down low and you
can't hit that odd guy coming
in."
In the Wolverines' first win
of the season, against Alaska-
Anchorage on Oct. 10, the
blueliners provided five assists
and eight shots on goal in the
6-1 victory.
No defensemen scored, but
the defense's increased offen-
sive role was apparent. For
D-Row, it may be only a matter
of time before pucks start hit-
ting the back of the net.
ROLE PLAY
Even with four of the Wol-
verines' five regular defense-
men capable of putting up a lot
of points, they haven't forgot-
ten to uphold the other long-
standing tradition of D-Row
- keeping the puck out of the
net.
In each of the past two
years, Michigan has been
ranked fourth in the country
in goals against. The Wolver-
ines gave up just 2.05 goals per
game last season.
"There's alot of pride in that
locker room for plus-minus,
for being on the ice for goals
against," Berenson said. "I
know there's defensemen that
are going to be looking at their

points, but they know bottom on your team," Berenson said.
line, it's what they do defen- "So everyone's not just offen-
sively that's as important or sive and not just defensive, you
more important." want them to contribute in
While many coaches and both areas or complement one
players have reiterated that another.
"We try and contribute
in every aspect of the
game. You don't
want to be a one-
dimensional player"
- Brandon Burlon


Senior captain Chris Summers leads an experienced defense this season. j $130 per team
University of Michigan's Flag Football
Largest A
Larg st ___ ___ Mitchell Field
I tSelection of REALTY ______________
UnitsAvailableforImmediate Occupancy
Off Camp as Now Leasing for 2010-2011 Entry Fee
Houses up to014 bedrooms
616 Church St. (734) 995-9200 $115 per teame
H o INg www.archrealtyco.com

solid defense translates into
a good offense, the increased
role will undoubtedly lead
to increased risk on the back
end.
In an effort to find that
elusive balance between
offense and defense, two-way
talents like Summers have
been paired with more defen-
sive-minded players such as
Llewellyn.
"It's important to have a
cross section of defensemen

"We've got some physical-
ity on defense, we've got some
mobility, we've got some offen-
sive instincts that are going to
help us and they've got some
good defensive instincts as
well."
Looking across D-Row, that
cross section is evident. Lan-
glais at 5-foot-9 is dwarfed by
six inches by Pateryn, whose
locker sits just feet away.
The offensively talented
Langlais will show up on the

stat sheet much more than
Pateryn, but the physical pres-
ence the 210-pound defense-
.man displays on the ice could
be just as important.
"Different guys have differ-
ent roles," Pateryn said. "All
of us know what we need to
do and we're not going to do
things we can't do."
The defensive combina-
tions have changed often in
the early part of the season,
and while this has led to the
camaraderie seen on and off
the ice, the roles for some
have changed.
On opening weekend, the
coaches paired up Burlon and
Langlais, two puck rushing
defensemen. The pair has been
forced to adjust to each other's
offensive prowess and take
fewer risks compared to when
they are paired with a stay-at-
home defensemen.
"We try and contribute in
every aspect of the game,"
Burlon said. "You don't want to
be a one- dimensional player.
If you have to be called upon
to fill a different role, that's
important."
With just one incoming
freshman, the experienced
group knows how to adjust
to changing roles. With the
returnofveteran players comes
both the return of silly off-ice
traditions and the potential for
more on-ice success.
"To me, the team with the
best defense wins," Berenson
said.
The Daily
hockey
writers live
blog every
Michigan
game. Fol-
low at mich-
igandaily.
com/blogs/
the game
(yes, there's a space.)

S U E0 KU

michlgans largest soccer dealer

adidas
pD11<

Sale on select shoes at 70% off
Great selection of professional jerseys
Custom screen-printing and embroidery available
Great prices on intramural team needs
Tee shirts for any sport, $6.50 includes Logo and Number

1952 s. industrial
(in colonial lanes plaza)
ann arbor.m40104
134-214-7000

open
m-f 11-7
sat 10-6
sun closed


w V V V V V


s

v

w I

w

W

w

W,

Av

-w-

:TALE OF THE TAPE

C OAC N EER2- *S*
CCHi.A CO NTENDERS

Notre Dame
The Fighting Irish have some
huge holes to fill. Not only did
they lose their record-setting
goaltender Jordan Pearce, a
CCHA Player of the Year final-
ist, but they also lost last sea-
son's captain and leading scorer
Erik Condra. Freshman Kyle
Palmieri, a first-round pick in
the NHL Draft, will make up
some of the offensive produc-
tion. Palmieri, the MVP of the
U.S. Development Team a year
ago, will join Calle Ridderwall
and Billy Maday to contribute
offensive power for the Fighting
Irish. The biggest question will
be whether or not junior Brad
Phillips can fill the void in net.
Freshman Mike Johnson would
step in if he falters.
STAFF PICKS
The Daily hockey
writers take their best
shot to predict what will
happen in the world
of college hockey
during Michigan's
2009-10 campaign.

Miami (Ohio)
Make no mistake about it:
whatever happens this year, the
memory of a last-minute col-
lapse in the national champion-
ship game last season against
Boston Universitywill hauntthe
RedHawks for years to come.
No. 1 Miami (Ohio) returns
seven of its eight top point-
scorers. It also returns both
freshmen goalies from last
year's Frozen Four run - Con-
nor Knapp and Cody Reichard.
Each tallied over 1,000 minutes
last season and should battle for
the starting gig all year.
If the RedHawks can men-
tally overcome last year's night-
mare, pencil them in as the
frontrunner for a conference
title.

Alaska Fairbanks
Alaska-Fairbanks has a slow,
methodical, and defensive-
oriented system. It clogs the
neutral zone and forces turn-
overs as well as any team in the
league. Alaska's only problem is
its inability to consistently light
the lamp.
Alaska has to replace gradu-
ating senior goalie Chad John-
son, who was a Hobey Baker
Award finalist and CCHA Play-
er of the Year. Sophomore Scott
Greenham took over this season
in goal and shut out Michigan
2-0 in the Wolverines' season
opener.
If Alaska can improve on its
1.90 goals scored per game, it
will have a legitimate chance of
winning the CCHA.

Nebraska - Omaha
With Mike Kemp out after
12 years and Dean Blais in, the
Mavericks now have a head
coach with a pedigree of suc-
cess nationally. Blais took North
Dakota to the Frozen Four as
head coach in 1997 and 2000.
That's great news for a team
with one NCAA Tournament
appearance this decade. The
had news for No. 16 Nebraska-
Omaha is a lack of offensive
punch. But if Nehraska-Omaha
can muster up enough offense
in front of sophomore goalie
John Faulkner against the con-
ference's stout defensive units,
then Nebraska-Omaha is a top-
15 team. If not, then Blais's tour-
nament experience with the
Fighting Sioux won't matter.
ca utryngofes
Kare

Northern Michigan
The biggest change for the
Wildcats this season is that they
are no longer underdogs - they
are a team expected to win.
Northern Michigan is return-
ing four of its top five 'scorers
from its breakout season a year
ago, including Mark Olver and
Erik Gustafsson. The experi-
enced play of senior goalie Brian
Stewart, who was a first-team
all-conference selection, will
be paramount to whether or not
the Wildcats can improve on
last year's third-place finish in
the Mason Cup race.
Northern Michigan has fallen
into a trend of starting slow and
finishing strong. Bucking the
trend would make it a CCHA
contender.

The Michigan hockey defensemen all share a row of lockers deemed "D-ROW" in the Wolverines' dressing room.

Like any other team, the Michigan
hockey team has its unspoken rules -
and this one has become a tradition.
Freshmen defensemen must pay their
dues, whether it's getting the sauna
ready after practice, carrying equip-
ment off the ice, or recycling bottles in
the locker room. But every defenseman,
regardless of year, is responsible for one
job - the have to protect the tape.
This year's lone freshman defender,
Lee Moffie, is entrusted with making
sure the team's forwards don't use the
clear tape. The playful rivalry is just
part of the tradition that contributes
to the great camaraderie of this year's
defensive corps.
"They don't let us use their clear tape
before practice," junior forward Louie
Caporusso said. "I don't know why. I
think it's pretty immature, if you ask
me. They have their own ways of going
about things."
It's a rivalry that lasts. Senior Scoot-
er Vaughan was switched from defense
to offense this season, and he said that
he steals the tape just to frustrate his
former unit.
Keeping the tape away from the for-
wards is just the beginning of the rival-
ry the two units have on and off the
ice. Joking with each other and taking
extra shots at forwards in practice are
little ways the fraternity evokes itself.

The defense hangs out on and off the
ice, on road trips, during team meals.
The group of defenders even has its
own line of lockers in the team's dress-
ing room, which they call "D-Row."
"We went to that after a while,"
Michigan coach Red Berenson said of
the locker configuration. "We like that.
All the defensemen, their conversa-
tions are hopefully about defense. But
they're sitting near the guy they're
playing with."
The consensus among the group is
that this is the best the blue liners have
gotten along in the past four years. And
that camaraderie has already led to
results on the ice.
"Even when you're not talking, the
communicating before and the cama-
raderie really helps if you don't have
the chance to talk and be really blatant
with what you want done," sophomore
defenseman Brandon Burlon said.
"Knowing what the other guy is going
to do makes it a lot easier."
The defense, which includes seven
returning players, will likely be a
strength of ateam that is much younger
on offense.
"All eight defensemen need to be
on the same page at all times," senior
captain Chris Summers said. "It is defi-
nitely a team game, like I've said before.
If we're on the same page and everyone

is working, then everyone's going to be
having fun."
There is no lack of camaraderie
on D-Row, and the tale of the tape is
entrenched as a defensive tradition.
"It might be the most simple thing in
the world to just toss it to (a forward),"
said Burlon, who, along with sopho-
more Greg Pateryn was in charge of
the tape last season. "But you got to just
shake your head and say 'no."
SHADES OF THE PAST
As much as the members of D-Row
pride themselves on their level of cama-
raderie, it's not all about friendship and
togetherness.
That sense of unity off the ice does
separate this defensive group from
many of Berenson's past groups, but so
does the possibility that this could be
one of the best that he has coached.
On paper, that year's this defensive
unit looks like one of the deepest in
Michigan hockey history. All Beren-
son asks for is a balance between sound
defense and offensive contributions
when opportunities present them-
selves.
"That's what we're looking at, ulti-
mately - getting offensive support
from the defensemen and still being
really solid defensively," Berenson said.
"So that's a challenge for the defense-

men. I don't want them getting trapped
up the ice at the expense of hoping to
get the puck on offense and leaving us
outnumbered."
Summers compared this unit to the
team's defense in 2006-07, from his
freshman year. That group featured
current Los Angeles Kings defenseman
Jack Johnson and Boston Bruins defen-
seman Matt Hunwick. But in some
respects, this year's unit is better than
the group that included the eventual
NHL regulars three years ago.
"There is probably better balance
(this season) with four or five guys that
could contribute offensively and score
some goals," Michigan assistant coach
Billy Powers said. "Whereas maybe
that group Summers is talking about,
we had two or three."
The coaching staff's emphasis on
more of an offensive-minded defense
comes after last season's dismal output
from the blue line. Just18 ofthe Wolver-
ines' 145 goals came from defensemen.
That was a major factor in the team's
low power play percentage - 15.8%, a
rate good for sixth in the CCHA.
But with a more concerted focus in
the offensive zone during practice and
another year of experience for a now-
veteran group, the expectations for
defensive production will surely be
See D-ROW, Page 7C

Nick rn
Spar Rohan

Mke
Florek

CCHA First Place Miami (Ohio) Notre Dame Michigan Michigan
CCHA Second Place Michigan Michigan Miami (Ohio) Miami (Ohio)
CCHA Third Place Notre Dame Miami (Ohio) Nebraska - Omaha Northern Mich
Mason Cup Winner Nebraska-Omaha Michigan Miami (Ohio) Michigan
Mason Cup Runner-Up Michigan Miami (Ohio) Michigan Northern Mich.
CCHA Coach of the Year Dean Blais, UNO Red Berenson,Mich. Blais Walt Kyle, NMU
GLI Champion Michigan Michigan .Michigan Michigan
MichiganMVP Bryan Hogan Louie aporusso Carl Hagelin Caporusso
Michigan Top Scorer Hagelin .Caporusso CaporussoCaporusso
Top Michigan Freshman Chris Bromn Brown Brown Brown
Frozen Four1 North Dakota Denver North Dakota Michigan
Frozen Four 2 Michigan Miami (Ohio) Michigan Cornell
Frozen Four3 Denver Michigan Vermont Miami (Ohio)
Frozen Four4 Boston College _ North Dakota Miami (Ohio) Denser
National Champion North Dakota Miami (Ohio) North Dakota Denver




w w wr w


w

w

s

,W


w

mr

w

,qw

Octobcr .22. 21009 - Faceoff 0 5C-

M Tenminutes of overtime had elapsed in the 1998 NCAA Hock-
ey Championship game, and Boston College's leading scorer,
p O Marty Reasoner, charged toward Turco after evading the Mich-
igan defense. He stared straight at the Wolverines' senior goalie,
T Uwho stood calmly between the pipes. Around him stood a rau-
cous home crowd of Boston College faithful, all standing fever-
ishly at Boston's legendary Fleet Center in hopes of conquering
Michigan-the closest thing college hockey had to a dynas-
ty at the time. The Wolverines watched breathlessly from
AL NE the bench as something their head coach, Red Berenson, had
told them at the end of regulation reverberated in their heads.

"DON'T WORRY, WE'VE GOT TURCO."
As Reasoner readied himself for the most
important shot of his career, the winningest
goalie in NCAA history poked the puck out
of Reasoner's control, halting the threat to
the Michigan's second National Champion-
ship in three years.
In overtime, Turco watched an Eagle shot
soar past him and off the crossbar, and heard
another ping loudly off the post. Both were
mere inchesfromdecidingthegame. Butthis
last save meant something more to a scrappy
Michigan team that Berenson knew wasn't
the most talented on the ice that night.
Turco only had to wait eight more min-
utes for his vindication.
Freshman Josh Langfield curled seam-
lessly around the net and surprised an unsus-
pecting Boston College goalie to capture the
Wolverines another national championship.
"That was the feeling that year," Berenson
says today. "We're going to play hard, and we
knew Marty was going to hold the fort."
After his most talented team fell short the
year before, Berenson knew how important
a goalie like Turco was to the team's playoff
run.
"He took us to four Frozen Fours and he
won two of them and he should've won the
third one," Berenson said. "I just can't say
enough about the confidence that a good
goalie gives everyone else."
As Turco skated off the Fleet Center ice
that night, he took with him one of the most
accomplished goaltending resumes in col-
lege hockey history.
A benchmark for Michigan goaltend-
ing was born. And despite the multitude
of capable goalies since Turco, none have
matched his playoff savvy.
"We just felt like he was invincible,"
Berenson said.
Josh Blackburn, the Wolverines' goalie
from 1998 to 2002, aided in two Frozen Four
runs but came home empty-handed on both
occasions.
Al Montoya, Michigan most touted goalie
recruit since Turco, allowed four straight
goals to Colorado College in 2005 and sur-
rendered a 3-0 lead as the team's national
championship hopes slipped away.
After Montoya, the Wolverines were
made victims of epic playoff goaltendingcol-
lapses from Noah Ruden (five goals to North
Dakota in 2006) and Billy Sauer (10 goals in
two postseason losses).

Eleven years after the 1998 Championship
game, Turco's shadow still looms over the
Michigan goalie position. Since then, near-
ly ever season of excellent goaltending has
been tarnished by poor postseason showings
between the pipes.
Last year, current Michigan goaltender
Bryan Hogan filed onto the ice inBridgeport,
Conn. to take on an overmatched Air Force
team. Despite seeing just 13 shots, his low-
est total in a Michigan uniform, the junior
allowed two goals as Air Force upset the
Wolverines, 2-0.
"At any position you're in, you feel like
you've let yourself down or your team down
when you lose a game like that," Hogan said.
This year, with new hopes of a national
championship, Berenson knows that Hogan
will be one of the main pieces if Michigan is
destined to break its 11-year title drought.
"Somebody told me a long time ago, when
you get to this tournament, the team with
the best goalie wins," Berenson said after the
loss to Air Force.
It's just a question of whether Hogan is
ready to be the first Michigan goalie to step
out of Turco's championship shadow.
COMPETITIVE FIRE
At 10 years old, Bryan Hogan was already
prepared for the intensity of college hockey.
The only problem was that he was still
just a Novi Ice Cat.
Hogan remembers one specific video of
his Pee-Wee hockey days that epitomized the
Highland Township native's young tenacity.
"I had gotten scored on ... and, I swear
to God, I went nuts, I hit the post, I almost
hit the referee with my stick," Hogan said.
"Growing up, I had a problem with getting
so angry when I leta goal in ... I was nuts."
And it wasn't just duringgames. L.J. Scar-
pace, a former Michigan goalie and Hogan's
hockey coach with the USA Eagles, recalls
multiple occasions when Hogan would "have
a word with his teammates" when they
scored on him or took a shot he didn't like.
"You could see him get so intense and
emotional," Scarpace said. "As a 10- or
11-year-old, that's not something you usually
see that young."
That intensity was a driving force for
Hogan, who took his persona to Detroit Cath-
olic Central High School where he won an
MHSAA State championship in 2005. From
there, as a little-known prospect, Hogan

found his way onto the roster of the USHL's
Lincoln Stars and wrestled the starting job
away from Michigan commit Steve Jakiel
halfway through his rookie season.
Hogan wasn't expected to steal the posi-
tion so quickly, but after four wins in the
playoffs, he kept the job through the next
year. That was enough for Berenson and the
Michigan staff, who extended a scholarship
offer to the Lincoln goalie in the offseason.
A year later when Hogan made his way to
Ann Arbor, Jakiel saw the writing on the
wall and transferred, leaving Hogan as the
only capable goaltender behind junior Billy
Sauer.
Soon after coming to Ann Arbor, Hogan's
fiery reputation resurfaced.
Often times when he is scored on in prac-
tice, Hogan slams his stick'down or sends
curses echoing throughout Yost Ice Arena.
Junior backup goalie Shawn Hunwick said
his favorite form of Hogan's episodes are
when he shoots the puckback at players who
have scored on him, even if the puck almost
always misses its target.
"It's just to send a message back to them,"
Hunwick said. " 'Next time, you're not going
to beat me.' "
Although the team routinely pesters
Hogan for his behavior during practice,
senior captain Chris Summers knows that
the junior goaltender's tenacity is his great-
est contribution to the Wolverines.
"All goalies are out of their minds," Sum-
mers said. "And he's the most passionate
about his position compared to any other
goalie I've ever played with."
Hogan has little idea what made him the
fanatical goalie that he is today. But with-
out that unrelenting ambition to be a perfect
goaltender, he never would have established
himself as the starting goaltender last year
over record-setting netminder Billy Sauer.
It was a goalie controversy that under-
scored the Wolverines' entire season, one
where no goalie could safely be called No. 1.
BATTLING BETWEEN THE PIPES
Billy Sauer's junior campaign was some-
thing college goaltenders dream about.
Thirty wins. Four shutouts. A goals
against average (1.95) and save percentage
(.924) that are tops in Michigan history.
But the one pockmark on his resume is
what ultimately led to his fall from grace as
See HOGAN, Page BC

,-No ,


