be 1MicI~igan0a6IVj

Ann Arbor, Michigan
PATROLLING THE CAMPUS POUCE
DPS cmte.
concerns
aired at MSA

Wednesday, November 18,2009
SMASHING THE SCARLET AND GREY

michigandaily.com

On advise of'U'
General Counsel,
MSA had ignored
issue until yesterday
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
Medical School Prof. Douglas
Smith finally got the chance to
speak to the Michigan Student
Assembly last night about his con-
cerns over the Department ofPub-
lic Safety Oversight Committee.
His comments came after months
of pushing members of the assem-
bly's executive board to meet with
him regarding those concerns.
The executive board members
had refused, to meet with Smith
after the University's General
Counsel's office advised them not
to meet with him.
Ambreen Sayed, MSA chief of
staff, said Smith contacted her
and asked about the appointment
of students to the DPS Oversight
Committee - a body comprised,
per state law, of students, faculty
and staff members charged with
holding DPS accountable for its
actions.
But MSA executive officers said
they chose not to meet with Smith
after they were advised by the
University's General Counsel not
to discuss the DPS issue with him.
Smith said that he thinks the
General Counsel's office is respon-

sible for him not being allowed to
meet with the executive board.
"I blame that mostly on the
General Counsel's office but I
think the University administra-
tion should trust the students to
be able to listen to both sides of an
argument and make a good deci-
sion," he said in an interview after
the meeting.
An article published in The
Michigan Daily Monday reported
that the DPS Oversight Com-
mittee has had a track record of
neglecting internal procedures -
a fact that lawyers quoted in the
article suggest puts the University
in violation of state law.
Problems surroundingthe body
include periods of time during
which the committee lacks stu-
dent representation, the failure to
hold elections for faculty repre-
sentatives every year and varying
participation rates for staff repre-
sentative elections. Additionally,
concerns have arisen regarding
the committee's light load of
grievances and the infrequency of
its meetings.
Sayed said she felt that a meet-
ing with Smith was unnecessary
because she had addressed Smith's
concerns about how student rep-
resentatives were appointed to the
DPS Oversight Committee.
MSA Vice President Michael
Rorro said that the executive
board made a decision not to allow
Smith to speak based on a recom-
mendation made from the Univer-
See OVERSIGHT, Page 3A

MARISSAMCCLAN/Daily
LSA senior Mike Rorro helps raise money for C.S. Mott Children's Hospital yesterday by smashing a car in Go Blue, Beat OSU Car Bash at the Sigma Chi house on State
Street. The event marked the beginning of Go Blue, Beat OSU week - a week of festivities leading up to the Ohio State football game on Saturday.
LIIG ATwIOrN R EPsRT
In awsit juyrlsfo h U

Research assistant
sued 'U' for wrongful
termination
By JENNA SKOLLER
and STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporters
A Washtenaw County jury ruled
in favor of the University of Michi-
gan Board of Regents yesterday

in the Whistleblower's lawsuit
brought by Robert McGee, a former
University research assistant.
McGee, 54, filed a lawsuit
against the regents after he was
terminated from his position as a
research assistant in the Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sci-
ences Department. McGee alleged
that he was wrongfully removed
from his position because he filed
complaints about potential safety
violations in the laboratory.

Throughout the case, Christine
Green, McGee's attorney, empha-
sized that the case falls under the
Whistleblower Protection Act,
which protects employees who
report misconduct in the work-
place. The seven-member jury
found that while McGee did engage
in activity protected under the act,
he was not discriminated against in
the termination.
Over the course of the trial, the
defense tried to prove that McGee

was an inadequate student and that
the decision to terminate him from
his position was made well before
he reported the safety violations.
David Masson, the attorney for
the University, declined to com-
ment on the case, but University
spokeswoman Kelly Cunningham
said University officials were "very
pleased" with the results of the
trial.
"It clearly shows that Prof. Mike
See WHISTLEBLOWER, Page BA


THE LAWS OF MUSIC

SERIES: OFFkE HOURS
Profs talk 'don't ask, don't tell'

Un
wei
rel
I
Sin(
the "d
of the
has b
eral la
Clinto

tiversity experts making their sexual orientations
public while actively servinginthe
gh in on Obama's military.
Initially enacted in an effort to
ictance to revise protect the well-being of the gay
po c community in the armed forces,
nilitary policy many believe the policyhas actual-
ly had the opposite effect, prompt-
By ALLIE WHITE ing the discharge of upwards of
Daily StaffReporter 12,000 service members since its
inception on the grounds of sexual
ce its introduction in 1993, orientation, whether actual or sus-
on't ask, don't tell" policy pected.
United States armed forces The Michigan Daily sat down
een controversial. The fed- with four University experts on
w, signed by President Bill the topic from several disciplines,
n, prohibits gay people from including women's studies, psy-

chology, history and theories of
sexuality to get their take on the
subject.
While the experts believe that
President Barack Obama is an ally
of the gay community, they are
anxious for the changes that his
campaign platform promised.
During his campaign and since
his election, Obama has advocated
for the repeal of the policy. At the
Human Rights Campaign dinner
last month, he said definitively: "I
will end'don't ask, don't tell'."
The American public, for the
most part, appears to be on the
See OFFICE HOURS, Page 3A

Members of the Law School Classical Music Society practice in the Michigan Union yesterday. The group was preparing for its
event "Bach's Lunch," which will take place in the Lawyer's Club lounge on Friday at 12:15 p.m.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
Challenge to affirmative action
ban heard in appeals court

ST UDYN G IN HE STATES
Report: 'U' among top destinations
for international students' studies

Three-judge panel
will consider
constitutionality of
0 2006 state-wide ban
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Opponents of Michigan's 2006
Civil Rights Initiative that banned
public institutions from using affir-
WEATHER HI: 50
TOMORROW LO: 40

mative action had their day in court
again yesterday.
A three-judge panel of the 6th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Cincinnati heard oral arguments
from both sides regarding the
legality of the state's constitutional
amendment.
The ballot initiative - when it
was on the ballot as Proposal 2 -
amended the state's constitution
by barring all state institutions and
agencies, including public universi-
ties, from using any programs that

show preference based on race,
gender, national origin or ethnicity.
The measure passedby a 58-42 per-
cent margin.
The main plaintiffs in the case
are the state of Michigan, Univer-
sity of Michigan, Michigan State
University and Wayne State Uni-
versity.
In a brief written to the 6th Cir-
cuit Court, the universities stated
that they wished to be removed
from the lawsuit.
See SIXTH CIRCUIT, Page 8A

Wit
Mic
6 in
A re
Institr
tion s.
a pops
studen
list of
intern
Wit
tional

h 5,790 students, academic year, the University of
Michigan places just behind Pur-
chigan ranks No. due University with 6,136, the
University of Illinois at Urbana-
national survey Champaign with 6,570 and Colum-
bia University with 6,685. The
By ALLIE WHITE University of Southern California
Daily StaffReporter and New York University topped
the rankings with 7,482 and 6,761
rcent study conducted by the students, respectively.
ute of International Educa- John Greisberger, director of
hows that the University is the University's International
ular destination for foreign Center, said that while these
tts, ranking at No. 6 on a numbers are accurate, they differ
U.S. colleges with the most slightly fromthe University'snum-
ational students. bers in that they include students
h a total of 5,790 interna- who have graduated from the
students for the 2008-2009 See INTERNATIONAL, Page 8A

COLLEGES WITH THE MOST
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
1. University of Southern California
7,482 students
2. New York University
6,761 students
3. Columbia University
6,685 students
4. University of Illinois(Champaign)
6,570 students
5. Purdue University
6,136 students
6. University of Michigan
5,790 students
Source: InstituteoftInternational Education

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
A2 Restaurant Review: Kosmo Deli in Kerrytown
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS 2...................... ..........2A CLASSIFIIDS ...................6A
Vol CXX, No. 50 OPINION ...4.......... 4.........4A SPO RTS .............................7A
@209The Michigan Daily ART S...A...............................5A THE STATEMENT.................. 1B



2A - Wednesday, November 18, 2009

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
I FINDING A GIVING VEIN

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA DANNEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailcem

Uniting to beat the Buckeyes

Few causes can unite students and
organizations across campus like
the Michigan-Ohio State University
rivalry.
While the Wolverines get ready to
take on the Buckeyes this Saturday,
the student-run Go Blue, Beat OSU
club has planned rivalry-themed
events throughout the week to build
school spirit.
Despite the diverse backgrounds
of organizations and students on
campus, LSA senior and MSA Vice
President Mike Rorro, who is part of
Go Blue, Beat OSU, said the club can
unite the entire campus under the
shared goal of beating the Buckeyes.
"(The events) can create a really
inclusive feel," Rorro said. "It's to
make sure this week is about the
unadulterated Michigan spirit."
Go Blue, Beat OSU is made up of
a wide-range of students, from stu-
dent government representatives to
performers to athletes, according
to Music, Theatre and Dance senior

Mike Michelon, who is helping orga-
nize the club's events.
"It's got this grassroots feeling,"
Michelon said.
He praised the club's efforts to
put on these events at a university he
says is traditionally not a "pep-rally
school."
The group was created before the
2007 Michigan-OSU game to facili-
tate a campus rally before the game.
Since then, the group has expanded
its reach to other events in the week,
in addition to the rally.
The first event, which took place
yesterday afternoon at Sigma Chi
fraternity, was a "car bash." Students
could pay to take swings at a car
emblazoned with OSU logos with
a baseball bat. Proceeds from the
event went to C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital.
There were also student perfor-
mances on the Diag yesterday.
Other events will include com-
petitions, like a pizza-eating com-

petition and a buckeye-smashing
competition, on the Diag tomorrow
from noon to 3p.m.
The events will culminate on Fri-
day at 6 p.m. with a rally on the Diag.
Football players and coaches are
expected to attend.
According to Rorro, the organi-
zation raised about $14,000 from
student organizations, student gov-
ernments and University depart-
ments to help sponsor the events.
"This is a huge opportunity for us
to come together not only as sports
fans but as a community, as a Univer-
sity of Michigan," Rorro said.
Even though the Michigan foot-
ballteamisreelingafter fourstraight
losses, Go Blue, Beat OSU members
say they don't think it will dampen
the events.
"This is the greatest rivalry in col-
lege sports," Rorro said. "If you win
it, the whole season is forgiven."
- ERIC PERKEY

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Cassified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Office homrs:Sun.-Thurs.11a..-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
eothedaily@michigandaily.con
photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com

display@miehiga:,dailyeeem
classified@nichigandaity.een
onlineads@michigandaily.com,
finance@miesigandaity.ean

AARoN AUSBURGER/Daily
Buddy the Blood Drop, LSA sophomore Sam Hunt, asks Art
& Design sophomore Millie Wybert to donate blood during
a service project on the Diag yesterday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Door smashed Man intoxicated Museum

WHERE: Medical Profes-
sional Building
WHEN: Monday at 8 a.m.
WHAT: A male staff member
discovered a smashed window
in the main door entrance to
the building, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects.
iPhone stolen
from CCRB
WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Building
WHEN: Monday at about 7:20
p.m.
WHAT: A male student
reported that his book bag
and iPhone were stolen from
the locker room after leaving
the items unattended for 45
minutes, University Police
reported.

in the library
WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 3:45
a.m.
WHAT: A male student was
found passed out near the
entrance of the building, Uni-
versity Police reported. He
was issued a citation for minor
in possession.

workshop
WHAT: A workshop to
discuss how indigenous
sources are represented in
museums in the Phillipines.
WHO: Museums Theme Year
WHEN: Today from
4 to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art,
Alumni Memorial Hall

Noise complaint Tribute to
RThprt Altman

Asylum Street
Spankers
WHAT: The Austin-
acoustic musical and theatri-
cal troupe will perform.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
Thanksgiving
potluck feast
WHAT: The second annual
Thanksgiving potluck. All
are welcome free of charge.
WHO: United Asian
American Organizations
WHEN: Today
from 6 to 8 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall,
Math Atrium Room
CORRECTIONS
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-"
tions@michigandaily.com.

Officers found an intoxi-
cated 25-year-old man
impaled on metal spike
after tryingto leap over a five-
foot fence, the Seattle Times
reported. The man, who told
officers that he believed he
was a ninja, had allegedly
attacked another man before
injuring himself.
The Michigan-OSU
football game doesn't
revolve around score-
boards, rather how much
money can be pock-
eted from your ticket.
>>FOR MORE, SEE STATEMENT, INSIDE
Ahigh school teacher from
Minnesota was arrested
yesterday for robbing a
grocery store and a bank while
wearing a blue surgical mask,
myfoxdc.com reported. The
suspect stole Xanax and Oxy-
contin from the grocerystore
before arriving dia banrk.

EDITORIAL STAFF
ourtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
lacob SMiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitzmichigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
nko,::,,.KyleSwno
ASSISTANTNWSEDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT E DITOR IAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSportditore reid@michigandail.e m
seteeSENI SRSEDIevORSiclevverbvchMikesste, Ian Kay, uth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,Chris Meszaros,Ryan Podges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandailycom
ASSRTANT AR EDITORS:Jshua BayerCaroynKlarecki,Andrew Lapin,DavidRiva,
Jeffanord
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIORPHOTOEDITORS:Said Alsalah,ChanelvonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSsTANTPHOTO EDITORS: MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,Sam Wolson
AngelatChih and design@michigandaily.com
MauteenSyh Manaoi geigniEeOditers
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak sales Manager
SA LES FORCE MANAGE R: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacree Layout Manager
Vivian Lee FinanceManager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daly(IsN0745-967) ispublished Mondaythrough Fridayduringthefalland winter
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to al readers.
AdditionacopiesmaybepickedupattheDalysoicefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,startingin
SeptembervaU.S. mal ares0.Winter term (JanuarythroughvApri)is$11,yarlongseptember
through Aprl) ei s$195. University afliatesoebjett educesubsitinrateOn-amp
subscriti fotso s are $35Suscriptis sterepaid.The MichigaoDilyisamemberot
Thv oi, aed Pressoand The saitlHno Cc InEgaeps.

0

WHERE: Helen Newberry
Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 11
p.m.
WHAT: A passerby reported
that male skateboarders were
being noisy and disruptive
outside the residence hall. Uni-
versity Police reported that an
officer issued a verbal warning.

WHAT: Biographer Mitch
Zuckoff presents his trib-
ute to director Robert
Altman through inter-
views with family friends
and famous co-workers,
including Meryl Streep
and Robin Williams.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Tonight
from 7 to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library, Room 100

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get moreonline at michigandaiy com/blo's/the wire


Democrats promise jobs bill

United States,"Chin a offer joint
statement on climate change

Bill will seekto help
15.7 million Americans
who are out of work
WASHINGTON (AP) - House
Democrats are looking at swelling
deficits further, at least temporarily,
on a jobs-producing bill in response
to double-digit unemployment and
a sense within their ranks that the
party needs to do more to put peo-
ple back to work.
Butmanyofthe ideas onthe table
so far are extensions of last Febru-
ary's $787 billion economic stimulus
package - such as unemployment
benefits and subsidies to help the
jobless pay for health insurance.
They maintain the social safety net
for the 15.7 million Americans out
of work but they don't directly cre-
ate new jobs.
Aware that the February stimu-

lusbillhas notprevented unemploy-
ment from reaching 10.2 percent
and of public opinion polls showing
the free spending measure is losing
popularity with voters, Democrats
are wary of putting a stimulus label
on their new package.
"I wouldn't characterize it as a
second stimulus," House Majority
Leader Steny Hoyer said yesterday.
"I don't want to be as broad as that, I
want it to be very targeted on jobs."
House Democrats debated ways
to address job creation at a caucus
meeting Monday night, and Sen-
ate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
D-Nev., has promised colleagues
the chamber would take up a jobs
measure after it completes its health
care overhaul bill. That makes it
unlikely to pass into law this year.
Job-creating ideas include addi-
tional help for small business, more
road and bridge spending, and
extending business tax breaks slat-

ed to expire at the end of the year,
according to spokespersons for
Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California
and Majority Whip Jim Clyburn of
South Carolina.
A per-job tax credit for business-
es making new hires is also under
consideration, as is help for finan-
cially struggling state and local
governments. -
The White House announced
that Obama would host a jobs sum-
mit in early December but has thus
far stayed silent on whether legisla-
tion is needed.
But the drive comes as Demo-
crats are also responding to increas-
ing anxiety among voters about
rising budget deficits and debt. On
Thursday, the House is scheduled
to again approve pay-as-you-go
legislation requiring Congress to
offset new tax cuts or spending ini-
tiatives with spending cuts or new
revenues elsewhere.

Statement comes
weeks before
192-nation conference
in Copenhagen
BEIJING (AP) - A joint state-
ment by the U.S. and Chinese
presidents on climate change is
encouraging as pressure builds
in the last few weeks before a
192-nation conference in Copen-
hagen, but the language leaves a lot
unsaid, observers in both countries
said today.
The world's two largest polluters
talked yesterday of a joint desire to
tackle climate change, but failed to
publicly address the root problems
that could unravel a deal at the
Dec. 7-18 conference - mainly, how
much each country can contrib-
ute to emissions cuts and how the
world will pay for it.
The joint statement by Presi-
dent Barack Obama and Chinese
President Hu Jintao has positive

language about aiming for a com-
prehensive deal,"butitleaves alot of
room for different interpretations,
ranging from a real ambitious cli-
mate rescue deal to another mean-
ingless declaration," said Ailun
Yang, climate campaign manager
for Greenpeace China. "The real
test still at Copenhagen."
Three weeks remain before the
global conference that aims for
a deal to replace the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol, which required 37 indus-
trial countries to cut heat-trapping
greenhouse gas emissions.
The Copenhagen agreement
would require developing countries
such as China to curb emissions
growth as well.
In a joint statement, Obama
and Hu said Copenhagen should
produce a comprehensive agree-
ment that would "include emis-
sion reduction targets of developed
countries and nationally appropri-
ate mitigation actions of developing
countries."
Hu said nations would do their
part "consistent with our respective

capabilities," a reference to the now'
widely accepted view that develop-,
ing nations like China should be
required only to set goals for curb-
ing emissions, not accept absolute
targets.
Timothy Wirth, president of
the United Nations Poundation, a
charity group that promotes U.N.
causes, praised the U.S.-China
joint statement for saying a deal at
Copenhagen should include emis-
sion reduction targets by devel-
oped countries, but he stressed the
urgency of finding a final agree-
ment.
"Reaching a deal in Copenhagen
will be hard enough; leaving all the
negotiations tothelast minute could
make it unachievable," he said in an
e-mailed statement Wednesday.
Already, Obama administra-
tion officials acknowledge that the
Copenhagen talks are not expected0
to produce a final legal agreement.
White House aides said Sunday
that a fully binding legal agreement
would be put off until a December
2010 meeting in Mexico City.

INTERESTED IN THE FIELD OF GRAPHIC DESIGN?

I Az

Design Ads for
The Daily.
The Michigan Daily Advertising Design Department
is lookina to fill a desian position for Winter 2010.

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 18, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 18, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Ex-Detroit mayor
resumes testimony
An attorney for Compuware Corp.
Chairman and CEO Peter Karmanos
testified yesterday that ex-Detroit
Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick did not
sign a promissorynote on a $240,000
loan until IRS and federal agents
asked to see the documents.
Kilpatrick received an initial
$150,000 payment on the loan from
Karmanos and three other top busi-
ness executives Feb. 4, but only
signed a document about paying
them back following the Aug.10 visit
by agents, lawyer Dan Follis said.
Karmanos had forgotten to get
the notes signed. Follis said he sent
the documents by overnight delivery
to Kilpatrick, who was on business in
Philadelphia, to get his signature.
"The promissorynotes were draft-
ed from the very beginning," Follis
said under questioning by Assistant
Wayne County Prosecutor Athina
Siringas. "When I found out they
werent signed, I had them signed."
Follis'testimonyendedthesecond
day of Kilpatrick's restitution hear-
ing. Wayne County Circuit Court
Judge David Groner adjourned tes-
timonyuntil Wednesday afternoon.
Kilpatrick wants Groner to reduce
his $6,000 monthly payments to the
city to $3,000.
LANSING, Mich.
Granholm plans to
Merge management,
technology offices
Michigan Gov. Jennifer Gran-
holm wants to consolidate more state
government departments.
Granholm on Tuesday announced
plans to merge the Department of
Management and Budget with the
Department of Information Tech-
nology.
The move would form a single
department to further integrate
information technology with the
state's other administrative services.
The department would be led by
Kenneth Theis (TYSE), who cur-
rently leads the state's information
technology department.
-Department of Management and
Budget Director Lisa Webb Sharpe
this week was appointed as a senior
vice president with Lansing Com-
munity College.
The state had 20 departments
in 2003 but Granholm has started
moves to reduce the total to 15.
DETROIT
2010 Ford Fusion
named Motor Trend
car of the year
The Ford Fusion is Motor Trend
magazine's car of the year.
The 2010 Fusion beat out 22 com-
petitors, including the redesigned
Toyota Prius, the BMW 7-Series and
the Chevrolet Camaro.
Motor Trend says the mid-size
Fusion offers good performance,
comfort and fuel-efficiency. It
praised Ford Motor Co. for offer-
ing several versions of the Fusion,

including a fuel-efficient hybrid and
a sporty version with a V-6 engine.
The magazine chooses the car of
the year after extensive road testing.
To compete, cars had to be new or
significantly upgraded for the 2010
modelyear.
LONDON
Slovakia to add 250
troops Afghanistan
Slovakia pledged about 250 extra
soldiers to the NATO-led force in
Afghanistan yesterday, the first of
what British Prime Minister Gor-
don Brown said would be a series of
international reinforcements.
The central European country
will double the size of its 246-strong
contingent in Afghanistan, Slovak
Prime Minister Robert Fico said in a
joint statement with Brown follow-
ing talks in the British capital.
Brown, who has said he is lobby-
ing allies in Europe and elsewhere
for as many as 5,000 extra soldiers,
welcomed the news and said that
more such announcements were on
theirway.
"We will be approaching other
countries and I believe that, includ-
ing Britain, maybe 10 countries will
be prepared to give extra support in
Afghanistan," he said.
NATO's Secretary-General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, in the Scot-
tish city of Edinburgh yesterday for
an address to the group's parliamen-
tary assembly,has so far steered clear
of saying how many extra reinforce-
ments the trans-Atlantic alliance
was willing to send to Afghanistan.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Pakistan army
uproots Taliban
sanctuaries

Obama officials
calls action
crucial to success
in Afghanistan
SARAROGHA, Pakistan
(AP) - A school the army says
churned out suicide bombers
now lies in ruins. Soldiers patrol
towns once ruled by militants
who gave refuge to al-Qaida.
Left behind are bundles of terror
manuals, extremist propaganda
and boxes of ammunition and
explosives.
Pakistan's latest offensive
close to the Afghan border has
uprooted Taliban militants from
long-held sanctuaries, an action
the Obama administration says is
crucial to success in Afghanistan
amid surging violence against
U.S. troops.
But questions remain over
whether the insurgents have
slipped away into the mountains
of South Waziristan or beyond
to fight another day as they have
done before in the region. Also
unclear is whether the army will
push its assault into other areas
in the northwest where the U.S.
says commanders responsible for
much of the Afghan insurgency
are based.
The army ferried reporters

by helicopter to parts of South
Waziristan yesterday, the only.
way media can visit the remote
and sparsely populated region.
Humanitarian workers are also
banned, meaning there have
been few, if any, independent
accounts from the battlefield.
Reporters were shown Ladha
and Sararogha towns, which
were both militant hubs before
the offensive started in mid-
October. Commanders said
Pakistani troops have retaken
most population centers, roads
and strategic high ground in
the region but that insurgents
remain in parts of the country-
side.
"The terrorists declared this
region would be the graveyard
of the Pakistani army, but we
proved them otherwise," said
Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas.
As well as being the strong-
hold of the Taliban, Pakistan's
deadliest militant network,
South Waziristan has long been
a refuge for al-Qaida leaders who
fled here following the U.S. inva-
sion of Afghanistan in late 2001.
It's considered a possible hiding
place for Osama bin Laden.
The army has tried three
times since 2004 to defeat the
Taliban here, but each attempt
ended in negotiated truces after
the military suffered heavy
casualties.

OVERSIGHT
From Page 1A
sity's General Counsel.
But Rorro said that the executive
board was not forced to make any
particular decision by administra-
tion officials.
"We got a message from the
General Counsel's office telling us.
maybe you shouldn't meet with this
person," Rorro said. "We each indi-
vidually chose not to meet with him
based on what the General Coun-
sel's office said."
MSA President Abhishek Mah-
anti said that Smith was overly
persistent about setting up a meet-
ing after he had been told that the
executive board did not want to
meet with him.
Mahanti added that he didn't
know why the General Counsel
advised executive board not to
speak with Smith, but speculated
that it was because of his aggressive
approach to setting up a meeting.
Sayed told the assembly she
exchanged e-mails with Smith and
talked to him over the phone. She
said that their conversation elevat-
ed to include issues that were out of
the control of MSA.
"It came to a point where we
were discussing things like what
can be done about the DPS commit-
tee's bylaws," Sayed said. "These
are things that are out of my con-
trol, out of exec's control."
Mahanti said he was aware of
Smith's correspondence with Sayed,
but did not think that Smith would be
able to offer productive commentary
on the issue ofstudentrepresentatives
onthe DPS Oversight Committee.
"That's what our role is to appoint
people to committees that are
elected by the assembly," Mahanti
said. "And it's so core that it took
me aback that somebody who was

calling 30 times a day, e-mailing
30 times a day would actually have
anything to say about that process."
But since hearing Smith speak at
the meeting, Mahanti said he has
changed his opinion of him.
"After listening to him speak and
after seeing his demeanor, my opin-
ion has changed, and this is some-
thing that we will definitely look
into now," he said.
Mahanti said the assembly will
examine the option of changing the
process of appointing students to
the DPS Oversight Committee, but
he is not optimistic about student
interest ina campus-wide vote.
"With something like DPS stu-
dent oversight, I don't know how
much student interest there is but
it's something that we are going to
definitely consider and see if we
can change that process," he said.
The MSA executive board made
the decision not to meet with Smith
without notification of the MSA
representatives, according to Pub-
lic Health Rep. Hamdan Yousuf.
Yousuf said he is worried the
assembly willbecome controlled by
the University's administration.
"Our speaker has made some
very disturbing allegations," he
said. "I think we should be cautious
about becoming just an arm of the
administration."
Yousuf and Engineering Rep. Pat
Pannuto invited Smith to speak to
the assembly last night. Pannuto
said that Monday's article in The
Michigan Daily about the DPS
Oversight Committee was what
spurred the invitation.
Pannuto said thathe was also curi-
ous to see what Smith had to say after
reading communications between
the executive board and Smith on the
comments section of the online ver-
sion of the Daily article.
In a comment, Smith posted a
series of e-mails he exchanged with

Sayed and the MSA Program Manag-
er and Advisor Anika Awai-Williams.
"It's modestly distressing that
someone wanted to come speak to
the assembly and was shut down,
particularly as Hamdan brought
up, by a University administrator
almost," Pannuto said.
In his address to the assembly,
Smith discussed many of his con-
cerns surrounding the committee.
According to Smith, because the
University employs DPS officers, they
are not adequately responding to the
needsofthegreatercommunity-but
rathertailoringtheirlawenforcement
to what benefits the administration.
"They're acting more like bounc-
ers than they are professional
police officers," he said during his
address to the assembly.
Smith said at the meeting that he
thinks the committee isn't comply-
ing with the law because the stu-
dent representatives are appointed
by MSA instead of elected by the
studentbody.
One independent lawyer quoted
in the Daily's article interpreted the
state law by saying, "(The statute)
doesn'tsayelectedbythe'studentrep-
resentatives,'itsaysthe'students."'
Sayed disagreed, though, saying
MSA follows the rules.
"I was asked the question
whether MSA liaisons are correct-
ly appointed, the answer is 'yes,'
Sayed said.
Smith told MSA representatives
that they should demand that DPS
respond to the needs of the commu-
nity, not just the University adminis-
tration.
"If you don't tell the regents, if
you don't tell President (Mary Sue)
Coleman that this is important to
you, then essentially it's killed by
neglect," Smith said.
- Suzanne Jacobs
contributed to this report.


OFFICE HOURS
From Page 1A
same page.
A May 2009 Gallup Poll found
that 69 percent of American adults
- including 58 percent of conser-
vatives - were in favor of allow-
ing openly gay men and women to
serve in the military.
When asked why he believed
Obama has yet to address the pol-
icy, David Halperin, 'professor of
the history and theory of sexuality,
said that while a number of mili-
tary leaders have recently spoken
out against the ban, the president
may seek further support on the
issue.
"It maybe that Obama is waiting
until enough such people provide
him with cover," he said.
Jonathan Marwil, professor of
history, pointed out that although
a majority of Americans favor a
repeal, the president must care-
fully measure both the benefit and
detriment of lifting the ban as well
as the personal political costs of
the decision.
If Obama moves forward with a
repeal, not only will he be follow-
ing through on one of his campaign
promises, but he would also please
gay rights advocates. On the other
hand, he would be feeding into a
long-standing criticism employed
by Republicans that Democrats
are soft on national security and
hostile toward military forces and
agendas.
Marwil also noted that if Obama
were to fight for the repeal of "don't
ask, don't tell," he would likely face
opposition from the military for
the remainder of his time in office.
"He would have the (military)
on his case the rest of his adminis-
tration," Marwil said. "He'd never
get out from under it."
Marwil went on to say that the
greatest ramification Obama faces
in doing nothing is disappointing,
even angering, many of his sup-
porters.
"They're already angry with
him over some things," he said.
By choosing not to act on the ban,
Obama risks the possibility that
these former supporters "will
make his life hard."
Given both sets of potential
implications, Marwil said Obama's
decision would ultimately boil
down to whether he believes the
majority of Americans who sup-
port the repeal can shield himfrom
the backlash.
Marwil noted that among those
who claim to support the repeal,
many might disagree with him on
other issues, which limits the extent
to which they can "protect him."
"What benefits does he get from
the very vocal minority?" he asked.
Either way, "there'll be a certain
fallout, and he'll have to measure
whether or not it's worth the fall-
out," Marwil said. "There's always
a downside of doing something like
this where you know you have peo-
ple who are pretty strongly against
what you're trying to do."
Though Obama has vowed. to
allow gays to serve openly in the
military, he has been criticized for
not providing a timeline for doing
so. Halperin noted that Obama's

inaction thus far may be an attempt
to avoid making the same mistakes
as Clinton in terms of gay rights.
He said Clinton came into
office under the assumption that
he would face minimal opposi-
tion to his promise to allow gays to
serve openly. Clinton "intended to
change (the policy) with the stroke
of a pen," Halperin said.
Obama, on the other hand,
doesn't operate under the same
impression; he knows that the sup-
port of Congress, and not simply
his signature, is needed to ulti-
mately change the law.
It is this acknowledgement of
the limits of presidential power
that lead David Winter, professor
of psychology and expert in the
study of human motivation and
the motives of political leaders, to
believe Obama "won't fall on his
face the way Clinton did about gays
in the military."
Those who oppose the repeal
believe that allowing gays to serve
openly would cause irreparable
damage to the organization and
structure of the military.
Marwil said that the strongest
argument for the continuation of
"don't ask, don't tell" is one based
on discipline and conflict. If gays
were allowed to serve openly in
the military, he said, a pre-existing
prejudice might be openly dis-
played, leading an already-vulnera-
ble population to face potential risk.
Marwil cited this as "a clear and
present danger in the military,"
and recalled the situation in Viet-
nam in the mid-1970s to emphasize
why top officials in the military
might be hesitant to repeal the ban.
He said Vietnam was the first
war America fought with a truly
integrated army, and during the
last few years of the war, the mili-
tary experienced an "extraordi-
nary collapse of discipline" as a
result of intense racial violence.
Though he said that level of
racial conflict has faded, it has
taken several generations to reach
the point of "enlightenment," and
the army worries that on the issue
of gays in the military, the same
acceptance does not yet exist.
Marwil outlined an inevitable
concern of the military. He said if
they "allow openly gay and lesbian
people to behave as straight people
do, there would inevitably be con-
flicts."
"That's the worst thing that
could happen to the army, the
breakdown of internal discipline,"
he said.
A former senior Pentagon offi-
cial told The Washington Times
for a Nov. 2 article that Marine
Corps Commandant Gen. James
T. Conway was a vocal opponent
of repealing the policy. While Con-
way's spokesman would not con-
firm this, he told the Times that
with the Marines fighting in Iraq
and Afghanistan, "our focus should
not be drawn away from those pri-
orities."
But Winter said the priorities
of opponents of the repeal may be
misguided. According to the Center
for American Progress, more than
300 Arabic and Farsi linguists have
been forced out of the army because
of the policy. Winter noted that
these dismissals of crucial military

personnel in the face of "don't ask,
don't tell" are actually "demonstra-
tively harming the war effort" and
have "cost the army dearly."
"Maybe (proponents of the
policy) don't really care about the
war effort or think it's important
to have people who speak the lan-
guage of the countries we're
dealing with," he said.
He went on to say that given
the fact that almost all of the
United States' military allies
have allowed gays and lesbi-
ans in their militaries for a
long time with minimal conse-
quences, there is no precedent
to suggest that America's armed
forces would fall apart with the
introduction of open homosex-
uality.
"Absolutely none of the
alleged consequences, whether
it be moral readiness, the fanta-
sies of folks, absolutely none of
that has come to pass," he said.
Halperin echoed this senti-
ment. He said, "there's no such
military ban in Australia, or in
Israel, or in France or Britain, or
many of the major world pow-
ers, so it's not at all clear why we
think this would have an effect
in the U.S. when it hasn't had a
destructive effect in any other
country."
He noted that Great Brit-
ain - the culture he believes
to be closest to that of America
in terms of homophobia - was
forced to change its ban on gays
in the military by the European
Court of Human Rights in 1999.
Despite the initial unwilling-
ness to repeal the policy on their
own, Halperin said, "they did it,
and nothing happened."
Marwil said that while
it would be foolish to think
there would be no instances of
trouble if "don't ask, don't tell"
were repealed, things would be
smoothed out within the first
fewyears.
Halperin said "the one thing
the military is trained to do is
follow orders. So when you're
told to behave in a certain way in
the military, you do."
Both Marwil and Halperin
drew parallels between gays
serving openly in the military
and the ultimately successful
integration of the armed forces
under President Harry Truman
in the 1940s and 1950s to illus-
trate their beliefs that a repeal
would not cause nearly as much
damage as some believe.
Halperin said the best exam-
ple of the military following
orders was, in fact, racial inte-
gration, even though it occurred
while segregation was still very
much legal in America.
"Once upon a time, people
thought you couldn't integrate
the army: 'those whites would
never get along with those
blacks.' And by golly, we did it,"
Marwil said. "Generally speak-
ing, it's worked very well."
In an e-mail interview, Terri
Conley, assistant professor of
psychology and women's stud-
ies, said that while the transition
would not be an easy one, "when
people are put in a position
where they have to change their

behaviors, their attitudes eventu-
ally follow."
However, Conley also noted
that she is concerned the repeal
could put gay military members
in danger, though she said open
homosexuality in the military is
an important step toward wider

acceptance of the gay community.
"The possibility of harassment
or hate crimes is still very real,"
she wrote. "The military should
take their ability to maintain order
amongtroops and apply this ability
to the preventions of negative reac-
tions to out LGBTQ soldiers."

buy a super
brewed coffee get[
a bagel FREE
1741 Plymouth Rd * Ann Arbor0
F R E E BIGGBY
F, for franchise info www.biggby.com COFFEE
Good at this location only. Not good with any other offer
No copies of this coupon will be accepted. Offer expires 11/24/09.
--UU


0

4A - Wednesday, November 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

L74C IwIC4l*pan4,3al*lm

ROSE JAFFE

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of theirauthors.
Blind to oversight
DPS Oversight Committee in shambles, needs reform
When University students get in trouble, they often
end up receiving a visit from the Department of Pub-
lic Safety. With so much responsibility vested in this
department, it's critical that the campus population be able to
trust the job these officers are doing. But the University is abjectly
failing its duty to ensure that there is an authority keeping DPS in
line. The administration has allowed the DPS Oversight Commit-
tee to lapse into irrelevance by failing to provide for adequate rep-
resentation of students, faculty and employees on the committee.
This failure is in direct violation of state law, and the University
must move quickly to right the staggering number of wrongs it has
failed to address.

FAIL -filet
CI.bKurl~cce 141 i ackireviv1l om C,5 9oa s
ex. 11mot. .a eeespt to 5e e ~ oe1n~~ y ey'h
.o lute, I LOt/S lsue57tobuck,;set LikeI I fc jo IWe Watc" fetI-C y5 I LK E tWE~
Gnats' V, : ieltlpc~Aee- iew l y 1es AeC-iI~
4D A f ofsl ev - s(5fAtthAccS.Ye,',, jike, lite lik< L t(,L KF
fi -
Get your pecans in Crisler

0

In 1990, state law gave four-year universi-
ties the right to establish their own campus
police forces. This law came with an impor-
tant caveat - any university that chose to
establish a police force was obligated to also
form a committee with the power to review
police actions and decisions. The commit-
tee is legally required to have six members
- two of each students, faculty and staff
members - who are elected by the respec-
tive members of those constituent bodies.
The University created DPS in 1992 and
established the necessary committee, the
DPS Oversight Committee, the same year.
But an investigation by the Daily revealed
that the committee is all but incapable of
fulfilling its basic function in several key
ways. The committee meets only about
once a year, and despite the fact that DPS
receives between eight and 12 complaints
per year, the committee typically only han-
dles two of them. More egregiously, repre-
sentation on the committee has not been
determined in the manner that state laws
calls for, The students on the committeeare
simply appointed by the Michigan Student
Assembly. Voting for employee representa-
tion alternatesbetween exclusively union
and non-union employees each year. And
there has been no election to determine fac-
ulty representation since 2000. Indeed, it's
hard to find a part of the law that the over-
sight committee isn't breaking.
With respect to student representa-
tion, not only are student representatives
appointed by MSA rather than elected in
a campus-wide election, but the student
seats on the committee have been empty for
months at a time. This year, there was no
student representation from May through
November. This situation should be enor-
mously concerning and frustrating for
students. It's outrageous that a committee
designed to keep tabs on police who direct-
ly intervene in students' lives isn't making
sure to include a consistent student voice.
With such a track record in mind, MSA
President Abhishek Mahanti's defense of
MSA choosing the student representa-
tives is dubious at best. The law calls for a
student-wide election, not an appointment
process conducted by student government
representatives. Not only is this an obvious
legal distinction, but it's also an important

practical difference. How can MSA be per-
mitted to appoint representatives to such a
committee when it has historically allowed
the position to remain unfilled for months
at a time?
In addition to being just plain wrong,
MSA's defense of this policy smacks of Uni-
versity administration over-involvement
in MSA affairs. According to today's front
page story, when University professor
Dr. Douglas Smith e-mailed the assembly
with a concern about a grievance, he was
invited to meet with MSA to discuss his
issues - one of them being MSA's appoint-
ment of students to the committee. Soon
afterwards, MSA pulled an about-face and
asserted that it was, without a doubt, fol-
lowing the law. The fact that the University
appears to be forcing its legal defense upon
MSA further undermines the credibility of
the assembly and demonstrates the need
for separate student elections to determine
student members of the DPS Oversight
Committee.
, The University must act swiftly to facili-
tate campus-wide student elections and
make sure that the faculty and employee
elections are also taking place fairly. What's
more, students, faculty and employees
should be demanding fair elections from
the administration. DPS has a significant
impact on the lives of everyone connected to
the University, and this committee should
be our method of guaranteeing that DPS is
operating fairly. The fact that this commit-
tee has been ignored and made irrelevant
sends the message that the University's
police force is not accountable to the people
it is supposed to be protecting.
The University has no right - legal or oth-
erwise - to employ a police force that lacks
a robust oversight committee. Every mem-
ber of the campus community should be
calling for the University administration to
reinvigorate the DPS Oversight Committee
by guaranteeing fair, consistent elections,
student, faculty and employee membership,
and frequent meetings that truly address
the grievances our community has with its
police.
And if the University doesn't take these
steps immediately, it should expect -
and deserve - a lawsuit from the state of
Michigan.

here comes a time in the course
of Michigan football when the
losses start to pile up, when
the fans begin to
lose their faith and
when things just
can't seem to get
any worse.
It's usually in
the morning, when
everyone is a bit
grumpy anyway.
It's accompa-
nied, in the best of WILL
circumstances, by GRUNDLER
voices of encour-_
agement. Voices
like Fielding Yost's,
who once famously said, "Sometime,
when the team is up against it, and
the breaks are beating the boys, tell
'em to go out there with all they got
and win just one more - just one
more, I tell ya! Unless they're playing
Ohio State. They are? Oh, dear. Well,
there's always basketball season."
Now, what should we infer from
this? Should we infer that the legend-
ary football coach is saying we need
to sell our Ohio State tickets and give
up on our football team? No. Should
we infer that with a name like Field-
ing he probably didn't have many
friends as a kid? Yes.
The point is, Michigan football
will recover. Moreover, after it recov-
ers, it will eventually decline again,
only to recover sometime in the
future. This is the way of the world,
as evidenced by stock markets, the
weather, unwanted body hair and
Oprah Winfrey's weight.
As fans, this means we should
stop bellyaching, cheer the team
on against the Team Named After,
The Seed Of An Angiosperm and
afterward, as Yost said, go to Crisler
Arena and watch the basketball team.
Because right now, Michigan basket-
ball is AWESOME.

To those readers who feel as
though I'm advocating fair-weather
fanship and urging people to watch
the basketball team simply because
it made the NCAA Tournament last
season, I say this: I am NOT a fair-
weather fan, so just drop it.
To those uninitiated readers who
have experienced only the Big House,
let me explain what you're missing.
The first thing you'll realize when
you enter Crisler Arena is that you are
INDOORS. Isn't that great?! No snow
or rain or bird poop to deal with! But
that's not the only-thing. The indoor
nature of the arena traps the deli-
cious aroma of the roasted pecan
vendors - the pecans, not the vendors
- which makes the place smell unbe-
lievably good. It's the type of sweet,
old-timey smell that brings you back
to those innocent days spent at your
grandmother's, back when she was a
pecan vendor.
Speaking of grandmothers, that is
how each and every event staff per-
son acts when you encounter them on
the way to your seat. This is because
they are grandmothers (or grandfa-
thers). Seriously, some of them even
have little stools to sit on. To me,
this is delightful, because they are
delightful people that could prob-
ably tell me all I ever wanted to know
about Michigan basketball, their
grandchildren and Harry Truman.
And I would listen!
Once you reach your seat, you'll
notice that for some reason, the play-
ers aren't the size of molecules. This
is because Crisler wasn't designed for
a crowd roughly the size of Asia. As
a student, you may get placed in the
general admission section, but this
is infinitely better than row 342, of
Michigan Stadium.
And then, after taking your seat,
after an exciting dimming of the
lights, what you've come to see will
stride confidently onto the court: the

Michigan Pom Pom squad itself.
Oops, I mean the Michigan basket-
ball team.
Boy, do they look good.
Now, I know some of you are wor-
ried because you have no clue when
it comes to basketball. Fear not. A
lack of knowledge about basketball
has not stopped people from watch-
ing it, writing about it or playing it in
the CCRB. When it comes to Michi-
gan basketball there are simply three
things to know:
1. There is a God, and His name is
Manny Harris.
2. When the Ball is in God's Hands,
Miracles can happen.
3. Give the Ball to God.
r"1_ -
Th e arena
isn't just for
fair-weather fans.
The actual rules of basketball are,
of course, completely irrelevant and
above the heads of many students.
Does anyone really know what goes
through a referee's head when he
does anything? No. The important
thing is to yell and scream a lot when-
ever the whistle blows.
Unfortunately, there comes a time
when a columnist runs out of words.
There are so many things to tell my
readers about - the cool announcer
guy, the entertaining halftime shows
(one does get bored of marching
bands, after all) and the quirky play-
ers (Zack Novak's shot defies the laws
of physics, Ben Cronin defies thelaws
of biology). You'll just have to go and
see for yourself - and try the pecans.
- Will Grundler can be
reached at wgru@umich.edu.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith


MARY ROCK '

The battle for lives

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Daily hasn't made the case One must ask, why isn't the fetus consid-
rabortionered a human being? A fetus certainly quali-
for fies as a member of our species. A fetus fulfills
all of the criteria that biologists use to define
TO THE DAILY: an organism, like the ability to grow, respond
I was rather disappointed to read the Daily to stimuli and undergo metabolism. Pro-life
editorial about the Pitts-Stupak Amendment to or pro-choice, you cannot deny the cold, hard,
the U.S. House of Representatives version of the biological fact that a fetus is an organism. And,
health care reform bill (<em>Stop Stupak</em>, being an organism, it must belong to a species.
11/10/2009). As a pro-lifer who longs to see the Of course, a human fetus is a member of the
day that health care will be more accessible to human species.
disadvantaged Americans, I was overjoyed at Why on earth would we deny basic human
the passage of the Stupak Amendment. While rights to a member of our own species? The
I certainly respect the right to free expression, editorial does not consider this question. This
I cannot help but point out several flaws in the is to be expected. The fact is that I have yet
editorial's views of the Stupak Amendment. to see an argument in favor of legalized abor-
In particular, the editorial fails to justify why tion on demand that is both factually accurate
abortion should be included in federal health and logically sound. If anyone knows of such
care. The editorial simply assumes that its an argument, I would be grateful if he or she
audience will agree with the notion that abor- would supply it to me. I am rather perplexed
tion is a legitimate, morally defensible medical as to why so many people call themselves pro-
procedure. The fact is that many Americans - choice since there is indeed no sound justifica-
if not a majority of Americans - disagree with tion for being pro-choice.
this assumption. Now, there is nothing wrong If the editorial - and, indeed, pro-choice
with proposing an idea that the majority of Americans - can't explain to me why they are
people disagree with, but when you do so, you justified in denying members of our species
must be prepared to justify your idea. human rights, then they surely cannot expect
Naturally, when one proposes that abortion me to pay for the practice with my tax dollars.
should be permitted, he or she is of the opin- If pro-choice Americans take issue with the
ion that the fetus is not a human being, and is ' Stupak Amendment, then they should sit down,
therefore not entitled to protection under the think hard, and devise a logical reason as to
law. The editorial does nothing to justify this why abortion should be funded.
viewpoint, which is troubling, since that is the
basis of the entire argument against the Stupak Jeffrey Brown
Amendment. LSA junior

In the past week, I have learned more random, unique
tidbits about strangers than I ever did in the dreaded
icebreakers of classes and student organizations. Over a
few juice boxes, I heard about what it's like to dive with
sharks off the coast of Australia, I engaged in a friendly
debate about the best type of pie, and I shared my favor-
ite fun facts about Fig Newtons with a small audience. I
did all of this working at the Blood Battle. Granted, I've
been at blood drives before - these people are essentially
forced to listen and respond to me as I make sure they're
feeling okay after giving blood - but talking to donors is
the highlight of my day.
As a chair of Blood Battle, the nurses and volunteers
sometimes assume that Iam going into public health after
graduation. That always makes me feel sheepish, because
I am a pre-law student. See, you don't have to be pre-med
to help save lives.
One pint - one person - potentially saves three lives.
There are many numbers in the statistics I rattle off when
promoting Blood Battle: We are trying to collect 2,400
pints of blood to save three times as many lives. Every
two seconds, someone needs blood. The Blood Battle is
a 28-year tradition between Michigan and Ohio State.
Michigan lost by three pints two years ago, and won by
181 pints last year. The months of planning are entrenched
in budgetary numbers, numbers of promotional materials
and numbers of appointments.
But it's not about the numbers. When people give blood,
they donate time and relinquish a physical part of them-
selves to restore other people's lives. My co-chairs and
I, along with our volunteers and nurses, have dedicated
our time to a competition of service and school spirit. It's
about people.
A lot of people say they're scared of needles. But how

great of a fear will stop you from donating a pint of blood
to help three people? You don't have to watch. You can
listen to your iPod. And afterward, you're given juice and
cookies. It's a simple way to do something important.
A donor from the School of Social Work was turned away
from donating blood two years agobecause of a number: her
racing pulse rate. She was too nervous to give blood. But the
deferral didn't deter her. I met her and learned about her
year working in Baltimore schools with Americorps while
she snacked on some Oreos after giving blood last week. She
conceded that there is nothingscary aboutgiving blood, and
she now plans to be a regular donor.
A fine line exists between turning faces into numbers
of pints of blood and seeing them as people. But I didn't
argue with the nurses two minutes before our doors
closed just to squeeze another body into the Koessler
Room of the League. No, it was the donor's earnest face,
flushed from running up two flights of stairs and genuine
desire to donate despite a long day of research and class,
that led me to plead with the nurses to work just a little bit
longer on a Friday night.
School spirit is a huge part of Blood Battle. Two years
ago, we lost by three pints. You're probably sitting near
three people right now, and if those three people donat-
ed blood, the difference could have meant victory. That
said, I think it says a lot about Michigan and Michigan
students that we still have the winning record. Ohio State
may have more students, but members of the University of
Michigan community have bigger hearts.
I hope that we can prove Michigan's caringspirit in the
last few days of Blood Battle. How many lives have you
saved today?
Mary Rock is the chair of Blood Battle.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 18, 2009 - SA

The Michigan Daily - michisandailycom Wednesday, November 18, 2009 - 5A

A view from
the fringe

Garners' great duty

* 'Modern Warfare 2' brings artistry, innovation
and political statements into play
By Timothy Rabb Daily Arts Writer

The "Call of Duty" series is tradi-
tionally known for its faithful rec-
reations of World
War II history,
including battles,
weaponry, vehi- Call of Duty:
cles and the like. ModeM
In spite of the
popularity of the Warfare 2
franchise's focus P PS3/
on the German- Xbox360
American con-
flict, the "Modern Activision
Warfare" spin-off
is a foray into new territory - one
in which Russia's leaders push for
a return to the days of the Soviet
Uiios5and'the'Cold Wa'.B Bitthis
time, the tensions are anything but
"cold."
This highly anticipated sequel to
the popular modern-day war game
"Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare"
picks up five years after the events
delineated by its predecessor. In
case you don't remember that far
back, the Soviet Union was discov-
ered to be in cahoots with a rebel
force in the Middle East. Ultrana-
tionalist Russian political figure
Imran Zakhaev was funding war
efforts in Middle Eastern countries
in an attempt to divert attention
from his own efforts to seize power
in Russia.
The second installment of the
"Modern Warfare" series occurs

after Zakhaev's death, when his
assassination is unexpectedly con-
strued as martyrdom by the Rus-
sian people. United under their
fallen leader's platform of nation-
alism, Zakhaev's supporters rise to
political power and fuel the fires of
anti-Americanism to an extent that
no one playing the game could pos-
sibly expect.
This installation retains the
best aspects of the series, includ-
ing the easy-to-learn controller
scheme and heads-up display style.
It also offers players themost gbvi-
ous supplements to a first-person
shooter sequel: Advanced guns like
a Silenced ACR;ssn AK-47 Grena-
dier, remote-controlled Predator
Missiles and many others are at
your soldier's disposal. You're also
placed in several intense non-FPS
situations, like riding a snowmo-
bile down a ridiculously steep slope
while simultaneously shooting
enemy combatants or riding pas-
senger in a Jeep through a war-
torn city. And if that's not enough,
the game also features an efficient,
easily usable online interface that's
oddly reminiscent of "Halo 2."
But one of the "Modern War-
fare" series's strongest suits is its
ability to humanize its characters
and draw gamers into its complex
stories. When playing an ordinary
FPS, players usually find that the

sub par plot structure drops them
right in the middle of the action,
gun in hand and ammo loaded,
following the same protagonist
through the same series of inter-
changeable missions. In "Modern
Warfare 2," you view the world
through the eyes of many different
characters, including a CIA opera-
tive on an undercover mission,
an Army ranger on the front lines
and even (briefly) an astronaut at
the International Space Station.
And though you see portions of the
story through the eyes of different
people, it all ties together beauti-
fully by the campaign's end.
It's hard to criticize a game that
manages to effectively cover the
whole gamut of wartime neces-
sities, but if there's one aspect of
"Modern Warfare 2" that's easy to
hate, it's the split-screen gameplay.
In all fairness, split-screen gaming
is never an ideal situation for mul-
tiple players who want the luxury
of a large screen, but, in "Modern
Warfare 2," minute details are so
essential to the experience that
the split-screen play is completely
impractical.
During online play, split-screen-
ers may find themselves deadbefore
they even see their attacker; as a
consequence of the limited screen
space, it's simply too difficult to
squint your eyes so you don't miss
that one camouflaged assailant way
off in the distance. But fortunately
this flaw also serves to highlight
the game's strengths. You'll need
the full range of vision of a large
LCD screen to fully appreciate the

many detailed facets of gameplay
and graphics the game has to offer.
The supremacy of this game
above all other real-world simula-
tion shooters, however, lies not in
its eclectic assortment of weapons,
characters and locations, or even
its exquisite graphics. The riveting,
vital plot point that differentiates
this FPS from all others alludes to
the very real fears that many hold
in relation to our country's tense
relationship with Russia. For the
first time in mainstream gaming's
recent history, players will fight
full-scale military battles within
the continental United States, spe-
cifically in Washington D.C. and
the suburbs of Virginia. These
images will mark a pree;ppy i.' p
careers of many gamers in that they
will fully realize - in near-perfect
3-D detail - the consequences that
-could have occurrediisa esult df'
the Cold War.
"Modern Warfare 2" is not
entirely new. After all, it's only one
installment in a series of games that
are captivating, painstaking depic-
tions of all the violence, tumult
and despair of war. How does one
go about describing a game that -
in addition to being a triumph of
artistry and innovation - is also
a profound political statement on
nuclear proliferation?
In this case, it's fitting to invoke
the words of former Supreme Court
Justice Potter Stewart's definition
of obscenity: You'll know it when
you see it. "Modern Warfare 2" is
obscenely good. Purchase it imme-
diately.

By BRANDON CONRADIS
DailyArts Writer
The subject of the fascinating
Oscar-nom-
inated Ger-
man film "The
Baader Mein- P*Badu
hof Complex"
is the Red Meinhof
Army Faction C0mpleX
- also known A
as the Baader Atthe
Meinhof Gang Michigan
- a real-life Vitagraph
left-wing ter-
rorist organization formed in the
early '70s. The film dramatizes
the group's ascension from anti-
imperialist protesters during the
war in Vietnam to one of the most
infamous urban guerrilla groups
in the world. It's startling and
captivating, and while director
Uli Edel's politics are unsurpris-
ingly downplayed in favor of a
more standard documentary-like
approach, the film is unnervingly
successful in its recreation of a
time defined by turmoil.
Martina Gedeck ("The Lives
of Others") plays Ulrike Mein-
hof, a radical left-wing journalist
whose resentment of American
imperialism and the war leads
her to Andreas Baader (Moritz.
Bleibtreu, "Speed Racer") and
his girlfriend Gudrun Enss-
lin (Johanna Wokalek, "North
Face"). Together, the three form
the Red Army Faction, welcom-
ing other restless youths into
their fold as they begin a series of
bank robberies and protests that
eventually lead to an all-out dec-
laration of war on capitalism and
the United States.
It's not hard to see why some-
thing like "The Baader Meinhof
Complex" would be embraced by
mnaipsrgam audiences. Provoca-
tive and entertaining, the film
plays like "The Battle of Algiers"
for a generation raised on the
/ breathlbss international.'inltrigue
of "24." There's not a whole lot
of substance here; the subver-
sive "third world" politics of
Gillo Pontecorvo's film, in which
the viewer, often unwittingly,
is influenced to sympathize
with the anti-French rebels, are
ditched in favor of "Bourne"-like
action scenes and an unsurpris-
ing objectivity that allows the
filmmakers to skirt by without
making an overarching political
statement. Its insistence on align-
ing the terrorists' actions with
sex, drugs and rock''roll - not
to mention the fact that the mem-
bers of the gang, with the excep-
tion of the middle-aged Meinhof,
are all sexy, uninhibited and

glamorous-looking - seem to
demonstrate this.
The film is not so much con-
cerned with deploying the inher-
ent brutality of terrorism as it is
with the young guerrillas' insis-
tence on using it as a means to
feed their desire for rebellion.
Also, the film is ruthless in the
way it uses individual characters
as mouthpieces for the various
conflicting viewpoints of the era,
as if to ensure no audience mem-
ber would leave with a bad taste
in his or her mouth.
All that said, "The Baader
Meinhof Complex" is still a ter-
rific film. It's long, but it never
feels slow; it's violent, but it never
feels gratuitous; and it's often
unpredictable, though it never
feels manipulative. While it loses
grasp of its numerous characters
at times - some disappear from
the film completely only to reap-
Unnervingly
Successful.
pear later without warning - its
frenzied nature just lends to the
feeling of chaos it's trying to
emulate. The actors capitalize on
their flimsy roles, but, ultimately,
this isn't a film that emphasizes
characters - even Baader and
Meinhof seem inconsequential
to the narrative. The dramatic
impact instead comes from the
collision between powerfully
staged action set-pieces and real-
life news footage from the era in
which the film takes place.
Like Gus Van Sant's "Milk,"
a film with which this shares
some similarities (right down to
the muted color scheme which
resembles faded newsreel foot-
age), "The Baader Meinhof Com-
plex" is a fascinating example
of a film about the past made to
address politics of the present.L
Again, it's not an overtly politi-
cal film - in the sense that it
doesn't voice its own opinions
about the proceedings - but it
certainlyposesmanyrelevantand
controversial questions regard-
ing the origins of terrorism and
the necessary acts a government
must take to stop it. This may be
the obvious route for a film of
this nature to take - acting as a
kind of arbiter for the Right and
Left - and in that sense the film
could have been more daring.
But there's no denying the sheer
intensity of Edel's film, or the fact
that, despite its flaws, it's one of
the most purely diverting films to
be released in quite a while.

A fierce dose of flower power

The shameless epics of Circles

By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily Arts Writer
Did you think TLC couldn't possibly add anoth-
er reality show to its lineup?
You thought wrong. "Flowers ***
Uncut" follows the career of Jeff
Leatham, a former male model Flowers
and celebrity florist nicknamed Uncut
"The Rock'n'Roll Florist" - a
reference to his no-holds-barred Wednesdays
style of flower arrangement. in at 10 p.m.
the half-hour show, Jeff creates TLC
flower arrangements for dozens
of events and attempts to keep his team of assis-
tants in check.
Since every reality show is built around the
same basic conventions (sit-down interviews, mon-
tages set to music and a seemingly insurmountable
problem that is always resolved by the program's
end), the feature that often determines success or
failure of a show is its protagonist. And Leatham
is a smart choice. Despite his outwardly polished
demeanor, he's goofy and endearingly vulnerable.
His single-minded dedication to flowers, and the
importance of a perfect arrangement is charm-
ingly over-the-top.
In one scene,. Leatham teaches the basic prin-
ciples of arrangement to a group of impoverished
mothers and then critiques their bombastic rib-
bon-tying methods. "This isn't a fashion show; it's
a flower show," he lectures. In another, his obses-
sive flower devotion is displayed when he glances
around the workspace as he's arranging flowers.
"Hopefully around 4:30 or 5 o'clock, this room will
be like an enchanted forest of trees and love," he
gushes, attired in a bowler hat complete with over-
sized flower pin. "I just want to create a corner of
fantasy and happiness."
Although every career has its moments of strife,
the field of flower arranging is not exactly fraught
with drama. TLC's producers seem to struggle
with this noneventfulness, honing in on any slight

misstep to up the tension quotient. One major plot
point is when a few vases break prior to a benefit,
sending the "Flowers Uncut" team into a tizzy:
"I don't care if those vases are fucking broken!"
Leatham yells. "Go and get some more!" Another
calamity arises when Leatham notes that several
flower pots have hand-print smudges on them.
"We have a problem," he says dramatically. "The
pots are dirty."
The biggest flaw in "Flowers Uncut" is that it's
extremely similar to other TLC reality program-
ming -sthe show focuses the majority of its energy
on random celebrity cameos and over-done sit-
down interviews about its subject, the beauty and
power of flowers. It seems obvious that the focal
point of a show about flower arranging would be
about the resulting flower arrangements, but little
time is spent displaying the finished product.
Leatham's creative process would be interesting
if coupled with the actual construction process,
but these important aspects are brushed aside in
Even Grandmaster
Flash approves.
favor of pointless side-stories about topics like con-
suming edible flowers. The episode ends with rap
pioneer Grandmaster Flash congratulating Leath-
am on a job well done, which is undoubtedly enter-
taining for the miniscule subset of TLC reality
programming fans who enjoy early 1980s hip hop-
but still baffling to the 40-something women who
will likely make up most of the show's audience.
"Flowers" isn't must-see TV, but it's an enter-
taining diversion and a positive step away from
TLC's overload of programs focusingon freakishly
oversized families. While it might not shed a huge
amount of light on the flower arrangement busi-
ness, Leatham is entertaining enough so it doesn't
matter.

By JEFF SANFORD
Daily AssistantArts Editor
Crafting an instrumental album
can be a tricky,
high-risk enter-
prise. Without
the structural and Russian
melodic guide of Cirdes
the human voice,
no-vocalist bands Geneva
better make damn Suicide Squeeze
sure their music is
strong enough by itself to hold the
modern listener's waning attention
span. Needless to say, this is no easy
task.
Success, though, brings hand-
some rewards. The fortunate band
is lauded with throwaway labels like
"poignant," "sprawling" and "inspi-
rational," and it might even land ajob
scoring excellent films about high-
school football fanaticism:
Unfortunately, Russian Circles's
most recent effort, Geneva, is neither
inspirational nor poignant (whatever
that means), and it's only occasionally
sprawling. The band - which is fre-
quently and fairly likened to a harder
and heavier version of Explosions in
the Sky - struggles to keep the songs
consistently compelling enough to
warrant the vocal-less approach.
For an album filled with such

doom-in
om," "Me
va boast
Opener'
dard me
drummii
fair amoi
in nothin
core brea
is certai
for this
album d
continue
it turns o
key to en
The h
closestI
instrume
in the Sk
Ne
forn
tar line;
moaning
ever moi
builds is
minutes,
nowhere
layering
throw an
into the

voking song titles as "Fath- track to the next level.
lee" and "Hexed All," Gene- "Malko" would be a bright spot
s surprisingly little drama. on the album if it weren't so shape-
'Fathom" begins with stan- less. The song unfolds over a starry,
tal discord and tom-heavy impressive guitar riff until it's bru-
ng. It builds up nicely with a tally cut off by a dense mush of dis-
unt of suspense, but resolves tortion and spasmodic drumming.
ig more than a generic hard- This vigorous coda is hardly earned,
akdown. The flaccid ending and the song loses steam despite its
nly a disappointment, and surface-level intensity. It all results
to happen so early on the in an odd, discomforting feeling of a
oesn't exactly encourage band not knowing when to quit.
d listener patience. And as It's largely the nebulous song form
iut, patience is precisely the and pacing that doom Geneva, but
Ljoying Geneva. the album isn't completely meritless.
opeful "Hexed All" is the The drumming prowess is a constant,
Russian Circles comes to helping to grease the tracks a bit and
ntal brethren Explosions keep them from completely losing
.y, with its understated gui- momentum. Closer "Philos"is an awe-
inspiring, multi-movement song prov-
ing that, when Russian Circles wants
bulous song to, it can in fact turn in a truly rivet-
a dp in ing instrumental. It's just a shame the
s and paCin. band can't do it consistently.
Clearly, Russian Circles is a band
that's shamelessly epic (see, for
s, spacey drumming and instance, track six, titled "When
strings. But again, what- the Mountain Comes to Muham-
mentum the song initially mad"). This typically isn't a problem
destroyed when, after four - instrumental bands invariably fall
the tracks goes absolutely into this classification. But on Gene-
.The band seems to confuse va, the trio winds up on the "shame-
with movement, opting to less" side much more than the "epic"
other superfluous variation side. And sometimes, a little shame
mix instead of taking the can do some good.

SLIDESHOWS ONLINE!
For photos from last night's Brother Ali and Devendra Banhart concerts,
head to michigandaily.com/blogs/the filter.


6A- Wednesday, November 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOR SALE
GOBBLE GOBBLE SPECIAL
Scio Farms of Sun Homes has a great 2
bed 2 bath home for sale at only $699
per month, for 3 years. Fiaaneig avail-
able, Ann Arbor Schools, Call today
this one won't last
888-883-7083 www.sciofarms.com
PARKING
PARKING AVAIL CENTRAL Cam-
pay, near B and Law Sehool 734-222-
9033. jmsprop@sbeglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood firs,
deck off back, on site parking, heat &
water incl. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.uimcaiapashoaising.com
. 4 BDRM house. May '10. Mary Ct.
IM bldg. Prkg. $2290. 845-399-9904.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left fior next year - NO MONEY
DOWN till 2010. Sign by Nov. 25. All-
new, furmished. 2 blocks from Central
Campus, all utilities included, per-per-
son contracts. 734-998-4400.
www.4elevenlofts.con
6 LARGE bedrooms. 1205 E. Uni-
versity, Fall 2010. 3 full baths, large
common room. Furnished. free
prkg/ldry, dwshr, $3650. 248-374-1688.
!6-8 Bedroom Large Houses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Furn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
fIrs. open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.cotn
-- -EAUTIFUL HOMES n!
6 and7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for AugS'p
2010. Central Air,3Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.603.1370
nancylat(anmich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
1225 White-6 bdnta
1133 White-7 bdrm
734-564-2125
www.keysmatag'ement.net
" AVAILABLE FALL 2010 !
713 Church- 3 bedroom house
Across from East Quad- near B School
- kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, laun-
dry, on site prkg. Avail as furn/unfurn.
no pets, no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-
1244 or cimgtllc yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com

Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink with
any new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
CHEAPERAND MUCH
BETTER THAN THE DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO GROW UP.
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNWoERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
7Univernit
-owe
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.coma
!! CAMPUS FALL 2010. Large 6
bdrm. hse. Walnut St., near nudbowl.
Prkg. for 6 cars,seasy in/easy oaut
Fain., dry., 2 baths., central air. All
new! $3700/tao. Call 426 4772 ask
for Jim.
!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !! 2 & 3
hdrmns lots of closet space, flat screen
bns, modern furniture & much ore!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Lacation! Remodeled3 Fireplace/cool
kitcen,. Mast sect (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW Leasing FOR 2010 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com

2 te the vei Yo
Studo- erom
Nort1Camint Wnide
C H
oed oan of th
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome'
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
em furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.nset
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheaper and
MUCH Better than the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartmentsavailable for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments.
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
FALL APARTMENT-LRG 2 Bdrm.,
very nice, 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furnished,
dishwasher, disposal, ldry. Heat, water,
and prkg. included. $1200 + electric.
(734)662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 min. walk
to Union. $2450 + ui. 734-709-5709.
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Houses
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
916 Sybil

6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
917 5. State
722 Packard
705 S. Division
7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn
12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
For details call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

JOIN US FOR AN
OPEN HOUSE EVENT!
WEDNESDAY 9-5
NOVEMBER 18, 2009
AT
THE
COURTYARDS
S T U 1) E N T A P A R T M E N T S
LEASE SPECIALS
ALL DAY LONG!
CHANCE TO WIN $500
PLUS MORE!
0 1-4 bedroom apts-
4tabednga $'s.
FREE satellite TV
FREE high speed internet
All utilities in clude d
Fully Furnished
in-Unit asher/Dryer
1780 Broadway 734)994-6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9'00 for a tour or email
etraband archrealtyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
I hrec bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroomn, formal dnig room, disf-
washer, hardwood floorng, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundyand ex atric
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101,
12 BEDROOMS + Study Unique early
I 900's old Ann Arbor Mansion located
1 block from campus near S. Division
and E. William. Furnished, Hardwood
Floors, Parkng Laundry, and extra spa-
cous livng and Dnin rooms. Cal
734-995-9200 or email
ctraband@archrealtyco.com.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-4772.
Sep.2010
HouesAvaiabl
Beds Location Rent
6 1122S. Forest $3600
6 812 McKinley $3500
5 1120 S. Forest $3000
4 715 Catherine $2300
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
2 & 3BDRM APARTMENTS avail-
able for Fall 2010 915/919 South Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of [loover
and south of Benjamin, across from El-
bel Field, Furnished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. 1BD-$840
2BD-S1100, 3BD-$1750, Spaciouss
Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2management@comcastnet
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.

2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.con or call (734) 260-
7215.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and machs morel 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshridryer. No coin laundry, front/
back porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
S NT 0 b S . I N C .
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
* *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
P Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!
*Variesby location
734s761.8000
www.primesh.com

FALL 20 10 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 129 White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 716 E.Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 117 S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer C $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
8 BEDROOM HOUSE 1 block from
Rackham, 2 blocks from the Medical
Center, Great for Nursing Students!
Furnished house with 2 kitchens, 4
bathrooms, Dishwasher, and parking.
Located near E. Ann and Ingalls. Call
734-995-9200 or emai
ctraband@archrealtyco.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptner@comcast.net
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direct
with DVR, fitness room, study & t
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drise-in garage. Cathedral ceiling liin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo
734-516-4291. gunnerbl7@aol.com
May 2010
HouseshAailable
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPO/DEINCO
(134)996-1991
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CarmpusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing,.many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.
AUGUST 2010 IS almost here- do you
know where you're going to live? 807
S. Main 3 bedroom house.
I and 2 bedroom apartments! Don't
wait, check out our website today
www.issaproperties.com or call us at
734-662-4446
14c PiciF n HE
I P RE SE NT S T H E

Online C$7 *fied
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandally.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Beds
6
6
6

Location
1121 Church
423 Hamilton PI #1
543 S. Division #2
1221 S. State #2
1117 Church #1
420 S. Division #2

Rent
$3500
$3100
$3000
$2500
$3000
$3000

Copi Properties
734.663.5609
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses,
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskcman@yahoo.com
AVAIL 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdn., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ hd. hse. Galatin RealtyCo.
734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndry, by Yost Arena, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisltc@comcast.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
r i Studio & I
Tower Plaza Condominium
ie SHinhrisOne odd smCamps
C allrinTomsic
734-663-1530
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 lg bd , 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/ndry, by Yost Arena, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc@comcastnet
AVAIL. NOW FOR 2010. 2 spacious
furn. 5 bdrm apts. Can be combined as
10 bdrm hse. Call 734-665-2723 or
visit www.ShahProperties.com
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Cenna Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2.
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
EAST U & Vaughn. 5 bdrm for 6. Lrg
bdrms, very nice condition. Furn, free
ldry + prkg for 4 cars. Easy in/out.
$2750.734-426-4772.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FALL '10 HUGE 5 bdrm house for 6.
Furnished, 3 full bthrm, 3 kitchen, dry,
prkg, 921 Packard. (734) 272-1320.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
Beds Location Rent
6 1029 Vaughn $4600
6 1021 Church $3900
6 541 S. Division $3500
6 930 Packard $3200
5 1101 Church $3000
4 1018 E. University $2800
Copi Properties

734.663.5609

0

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bedrooms Available
From $799
Call Sun Homes at 888-993-6851
FOR ECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
WWW.Si~far S.C~m Offer Expires
1www.sciofarms.com 1/30/09
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 70 City west of 31 Finish ahead of 47 "No ifs,
1 Popular Tulsa 33 Noun modifier: 49 Universityofficer
4 Takes steps 71 Street shader Abbr. 52 Labor Day mo.
8 Does some 34 Friend of Pooh 53 Running free
garden DOWN 35 Canadian rd. sign 54 Author Shaw
maintenance 1 "Bonanza" letters 56 Just barely
14 Father ." brother 37 Fires, with "off' 57 _ tick: disease
15 Masked critter 2 Pained cry 40 Very old: Abbr. carrier
16 "Ditto" 3 Hears arguments 43 Chat idly: Var. 58 Gillette's _ 11
17 Ecol. or agric. in court 44 Half a Kenyan 60 Spice Gr
18*"Seven Year 4 Painter's rebel Halliwell
Ache" country medium 46 Official 61 Wood fastener
singer 5 Not nerdy emergency 62 Bongo or conga
20 "'All I Wanna Do" 6 Puccini opera status 64 Nantes negative
singee moWrning frsnw
22 1963role for Liz doghnuse a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Note after fa 8 Bestttypeof MAAM ABB A L A S T
24 Nissan sedan situationD ELM
26Mimsafamil y 9 Fruitdinksuffix A c I P 0 B U u E L M 0
twoe 10Bach woek IBANI VA AN T L 0 T
29 Part of TNT 11 Catchllabbr. N I B 0 0 A E E M 0 T E
32*Longtime 12 Went up A S A L T E R E D
"American 13 Fashionable S
Bandstand"host Londonarea
36 Loverof 19"Justkidding!" E X P 0 5 E L 0 I T E R E R
Christine, in "The 21 Gibraltar A G E B W 0 E M 0 U E
Phantom of the landmark S I D E S T E P P R I a B I
Opera" o 25Fallenspace I M PER I AL TON
35 Gardnerent Cation
"Mogambo" 26 Eden gardener M R F I X I T E E N
39 Parkinsonism 27 union: same- 0 H A R E I N 0 A N 0 E R
drug sex relationship RIVEB AFT TAMPA
41 Hagen of status A S E A
Broadway 28 100%
42Bette's "Divine" 30 King Arthu's L 0 R E B00 n0NcN
nickname mating spat xwordeditor@aol.com 11/17/09
45 *Notablewmember 152u3u 4a56s7s8sru1u 11u112a1u
ut The Secund
City iwprov 4 ,s ,61
48'TheMerry 7n 18
Widow"
composer 21 22
50 Time-share units
51 Rolled oats 23 a4 as
cereal
55 Ban peicide2 au m u29 u a,
50/noice abuse3: 6
59 *Fench writer 38 40441 1 1
who befriended
Cbnpin a 4 a 4 a s m4 a
83 "The Mak at
Zorro" star (1940) m m 44
65 Happy hour site,
and word that 51 52 s 5 55
can follow each
astw nte su 50 s8 1259
answerssto
starred clues i i i i 65
66 World's largest
sier by nIlmwe 6m67
67 ing, to asubject
68 GreaterN.Y.C. 61 01
campuu
69 Nt naked By Dan iNdor 1/1/0
5s5OOO55,55bune Media Srcs, n. 1/80

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 18, 2009 -7A

Graham gears up for final home game

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Throughout Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez's tumultuous two-year
tenure, one player has almost always
been able to flash a smile, even in the
toughest of stretches.
Senior defensive end Brandon-
Graham jumps at any opportunity
to make someone laugh.
This week, with the Wolverines
in the midst of a six-game confer-
ence skid, Graham was asked what
he would tell his children about the
Michigan-Ohio State rivalry.
"I don't want to talk about no kids
right now," Graham said, letting out
a jocular laugh.
It's not that Graham - who leads
the nation with 21 tackles for loss -
doesn't take Michigan's struggles
seriously. Rather, he's excelled and
turned into a surefire first-day NFL
Draft choice because of his attitude.
"Brandon would probably be the
best player I ever coached for one
reason: He made the game fun," said
Tim Hopkins, Graham's high school
coach at Crockett Technical. "He
always had fun playing football."

This season, Graham became the
second Wolverine ever to post back-
to-back seasons with 20 tackles for
loss. He will likely pass LaMarr
Woodley in career tackles for loss
Saturday (he needs just 1.5) to move
into second place all-time. He also
moved into second place for career
sacks with 27.5.
Statistically, Graham is second to
just one player in Michigan's vaunt-
ed defensive history: Mark Messner.
"For somebody to be able to be as
dominant, regardless of what team
you play on, to be as dominant as he
is at times is just a heck of a person-
al feat," said Messner, a Michigan
defensive lineman from1985 to 1988.
"The talent level across the board
in college football and beyond is so
close that when you have somebody
that can take it to the next level like
he has, that's a real shiningstar."
But in some ways, it may notseem
too difficult to be a shining star on a
defense that gave up the most points
ever last season. Furthermore, that
record could be brokenby this year's
defense if the Buckeyes score 39
points Saturday.

"Sometimes, when you're deal-
ing with a defense that seems to
be a little bit porous, it opens up
some doors for you to come in the
back way," Messner said yesterday.
"So realistically, I think he's in an
advantageous situation where they
don't just have to focus on stopping
him, they can go somewhere else
and have success."
But the paradox of Graham's suc-
cess and the unit's failings isn't on
Graham's mind, and the talkative
senior essentially clams up when
asked about it.
"I ain't think about it," Graham
said. "I'm a team player. We all had
a bad year 'cause our goals weren't
fulfilled. My personal goals was
okay, but it's not about me."
Graham says it's not about him,
but he's one of the few players to
excel under Rodriguez since he
arrived in Ann Arbor - and is a posi-
tive reflection of Rodriguez's strong
focus on conditioning. Graham
"didn't realize how out of shape he
was until Rich Rodriguez came in,"
according to Hopkins.
Ohio State coach Jim Tressel

thinks Graham's choice to forgo the
NFL Draft is a testament to Rodri-
guez and his staff.
"Quite honestly, I was hoping
a year ago he'd go out early to the
NFL," Tressel said yesterday. "It
says something about his character
and his relationship with his staff
that he wanted to be a part of this
building process."
Though Graham may have one
game left as a part of that process,
the team's vocal leader has been
the one to stay positive through this
year's emotional rollercoaster.
"He's a leader in a way that losing,
winning, down or up, he plays like it's
the last play of his career," redshirt
sophomore Ryan Van Bergen said.
"That's really amazing, especially
for a guy in his position that has the
future he's probably going to have."
Yet the realization that his Michi-
gan career is almost over is one of
the few times Graham's smilebriefly
disappears.
"It's kind of sad," Graham said.
"Growing up, you've been dream-
ing for this moment in your life. And
now it's gone. This is my last game.
I'm tryingnot to cry right now."

C G' t REER/Daily
Senior Brandon Graham is excellint on the field despite the team's struggles.


The Greatest Rivalry in Sport
Suck it up, Fat Boy

From the Editor: We hope
you're enjoying our look back at the
Daily's game coverage from famous
Michigan-Ohio State games. Here's
the Daily's, um, interesting column
from Blue's 1969 upset of OSU. And
yes, that headline actually ran in '69.
A11 the pain and hurt that
wasbuilt up over a year has
ended. Thanksgiving has
come early at Michigan and Stuffed
Woody was the order of the day.
True, the score was only 24-12
and true, Michigan lost numerous
chances to rack up more points.
Butastill, the Buckeyes htmiliation
is greater than anything that 50-14
could do. Michigan didn't have
to go for two points to rub salt in
wounds, all they did was belt Ohio
State all the afternoon.
Offensive guard Dick Caldaraz-
zo put it best when he said, "We
went out there and stuck them. We
out toughed them. They haven't
been hit like that all year." And
Wayne Woodrow "Fat Boy" Hayes
was forced to agree. "We just got
outplayed and outpunched," was
one of the few comments that the

irascible, insufferable coach would
make after his supposedly Number
One team was destroyed.
"Fat Boy" immediately retreated
into the lockerroom and wouldn't
talk anymore after that, but no one
really cared. It had been expected
that he would show his typical atti-
tude after the defeat and the real
story was Michigan anyway.
The story of yesterday is more
than just Ohio State being knocked
from its perch and Michiganclinch-
ing the Rose Bowl; the real story is
a group of proud, inspired Wolver-
ine athletes who crammed a cocky
Buckeye team into Tartan Turf.
"We were ready to play and we
took it from them," exulted Wolf-
m'an Tom Darden, a native of Ohio.
"Nothing in the world could be bet-
ter than beating Ohio State." Quar-
terback Don Moorhead echoed
Darden's statements and typified
the attitude of the squad when he
said, "We were really high for the
game and when you're playing like
that you can do almost anything."
Moorhead actually was slightly
wrong; the Wolverines did every-

thing, not almost anything. The
offense stuck to the ground the
way Bo Schembechler wanted to
and they punched out24 points.
But the real heroes were the
members of the defensive platoon.
An inspired group of 11 men con-
tinually pounded and hounded Rex
Kern and his vaunted offensive
teammates. The super secondary
stole six passes, missing a Big Ten
record by one, and Cecil Pryor
recovered a fumble. In addition,
the heralded Larry Zelina rolled up
a fantastic minus five yards rushing
while the Wolverine tacklers kept
smashingevery Buckeye assault.
Henry Hill demonstrated to
Jim Stillwagon just who is the best
niddle guard in the conferenceas
he made 13 tackles. Pete Newell,
Marty Huff, Mike Keller and Pryor
also join in the fun as they harried
Kern continually,, finally drove
him out of the game and then pro-
ceeded to work over substitute Ron
Maciejowski.
And then there were the pass
defenders. They were, to say the
least, veritably inimitable. Tom

Curtis, Barry Pierson, Brian Healy
and Tom Darden put on an exhibi-
tion of pass coverage that was sen-
sational. Curtis grabbed two errant
tosses, Pierson three and Darden
one. Curtis returned one intercep-
tion 26 yards and set an NCAA
record for career yardage in inter-
ception returns.
But all the details are just mun-
dane matter. It was the feeling of
the Wolverines and the attitude
tat was conveyed to the 103,588
fans that mattered. Michigan was
a team with a mission, a club that
wouldn't be denied.
"We were on fire all day," said
an overjoyed Schembechler. "We
were ready to play this one. We
were so emotional we would've
won no matter what. I don't care
what happened on the field, if we
had been three touchdowns down
we still would've won."
The rookie coach's attitude was
typical of his team. The Wolverines
just would not be denied. All week
long they approached the game
with but a single purpose, winning,
and they reached their goal.

NowtheRose Bowllies aheadbut
no one really cares at the moment.
The only sentiment voiced by the
Michigan team is that of Schem-
bechler's, that of going as cham-
pions. "That's the way we wanted
to go," said Bo. "I guess we saved
them the trouble of the vote."
No longer do Fat Boy's comments
on the best team going to the Bowl
matter. Michigan has proved to be
the best club and no one can ever
take that away. Bo Schembechler
will go to Pasadena in his first year
as a head coach and Fielding Yost is
the onlyother man who has done so.
"It's unbelievable, really," comment-
ed Scheibechler, and most people
are inclined to agree with him.
Michigan is in euphoria and
everything else besides the game is
disjointed. Ann Arbor started on a
drunk last night and it may not be
over yet. The contents of this story
probably prove that, but who gives
a damn? I don't. All I'm going to do
is grab another beer and enjoy the
hell out of myself.
Good-byWoody, it was funwhile
it lasted.

YES, WE
REALIZE THIS
WHOLE PAGE
IS ABOUT
FOOTBALL.
GO TO WWW.
MICHIGANDAILY.
COM/SECTIONI
SPORTS TO GET
THE LATEST NEWS
ON HOCKEY AND
BASKETBALL.


*N NOW SCHEDULING
APPOINTMENTS
*NOW RENTING*
Call to schedule your tours!
Studios- 4 Bedroom apartments
Great Campus locations!
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease
8 bdrm houses at 806 Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 bdrm houses at 217 N.
Thayer & 912 Sybil. 1, 2, 3 bdrm apts
on central campus. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE 4 BEDROOMS, large living
room, large attic, approved for 6, 852
Brookwood. Prkg., porch, wshridryer,
no coin laundry, dishwshr., garage.
Basement. 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 111 I 5 . State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.

Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S.State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 5. Forest
511 B. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
4 Bedroom:
720 S. State
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
( At most locations)
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSellA2.com 734-476-9768
WINTER SEMESTER RENTAL:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, furnished option. Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
TRANSFER OF LEASE
November '09 - June '10
3 Bdrm Northwood IV House 1312
Vacant from 11/4/09
Excellent Location in lot 47, close to
school bus stop and community center,
excellent school district & remodeled
bathroom.
Please email jrajiv@med.umich.edu
or call 734-565-8747.
SUBLETS
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.

ATTN: GRADUATING SENIORS
U-M's Center for Research on Learning
and Teaching seeks full-time, year-
round Program Assistant for event
planning and support. Must be depend-
able, detail-oriented, organized, and
possess great communication skills.
Dec 1 start (neg.). Starting salary in
high twenties, full benefits. Submit
cover letter and resume in single elec-
tronic file to JOB ID 35881 at
www.umich.edu/-jobs/ . The Univer-
sity of Michigan is an Equal Opportuni-
ty/Affirmative Action Employer.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email
your course listing and a brief descrip-
tion about yourself to
umich@sharenotes.com START
EARNING TODAY!
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477. www.earnparttime.com
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com

For Thursday, Nov. 19, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
This is a poor day to approach parents,
bosses or the police with a request or a
solicitation for permission. You'll be
turned away.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You might be discouraged about travel
plans or something related to higher edu-
cation today. Suddenly, what was look-
ing great is looking bleak! (This is atem-
porary setback.)
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
News about how something is shared
could depress you today. You might feel
that people aren't being fair. Don't be
discouraged. Things will change quickly.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Conversations with partners and close
friends are a bit depressing today. People
are shut down in their feelings toward
each other. (No big deal.)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Co-workers might disappoint you
today. In fact, it's hard to get anything
off the ground at work because you feel
it's one step forward, two steps back.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Romance might be in the toilet today.
It's hard to feel lighthearted and playful.
Children also might feel burdensome.
(Hey, this goes with the territory.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Discussions with parents and older
relatives might be a bummer today.
People are too busy telling you why you
can't do something. Oy vey.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 211
It's easy to feel discouraged today; this
is in part because many people feel this

way. Don't worry; tomorrow is a better
day. Just fake it till you make it.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You might feel broke today or finan-
cially crunched. Your cash flow has
slowed to a dribble. Don't let this get
you down, because tomorrow things will
look different. (Mike Todd said there's a
difference between being poor and being
broke.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Life is hard today. Situations around
you seem to be depressing. Furthermore,
others are judgmental. Get through
today, because tomorrow is a much bet-
ter day!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
It's hard to know what to do today. If
you're alone, you might feel lonely and
depressed. However, if you're with oth-
ers, you might still feel lonely and
depressed! Sheesh!
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Criticism from others, especially peo-
ple who are older than you, could rain on
your parade. Don't let this get you down.
It's a temporary dark cloud on your hori-
zon.
YOU BORN TODAY You love
knowledge about a wide variety of sab-
jects. You're daring and inquisitive.
You're innovative and constantly seek-
ing new ways of doing things. You need
mental stimulation to avoid boredom.
You have good communication skills
and a talent for making others feel
important. The older you get, the more
philanthropic and humanitarian you
become. Your year ahead is social and
favorable for relationships.
Birthdate of: Jodie Foster,
actress/director; Meg Ryan, actress; Ted
Tumer, media mogul/philanthropist.

TmEIS E IcTING~- LAING.UAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

EXPERIENCED DRIVER WITH
good driving record needed to pick and
drop two kids from St. Francis school.
Please call for more info 313-399-0652.
NANNY NEEDED FROM 1-5 p.m.
M-F starting in January. Transporta-
tion required. E-mail resumes to
mpecinai@gmail.com

STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
EARN EXTRA MONEY! StudentsTICKETS & TRAVEL
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience SPRING BREAK 2010, Sell Trips,
required. Call 1-800-722-4791. Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25- Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam- Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @ Information/Reservations
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400. 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8A - Wednesday, November 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'U' wins Whistleblower suit

Official:'U'had 9 percent boost
in international students this year

From Page 1A
Hartman and the Nuclear Engi-
neering Department acted prop-
erly," she said.
Green declined to comment
immediately following the trial.
Calls to her home went unre-
turned yesterday evening.
McGee testified last Tuesday
that he agreed to assist professor
Michael Hartman install a safe-
ty door in Nuclear Engineering
Prof. Kimberlee Kearfott's labo-
ratory on North Campus. Though
Kearfott's lab contains a source of
Cesium 137, a highly radioactive
isotope, McGee said he agreed to
enter the lab because Hartman
told him he had permission to do
so and McGee trusted him.
The two didn't use a survey
meter or a dosimeter - radiation
protection devices - while they
were in the lab. McGee said Hart-
man asked McGee if he knew if the
machine that contained the Cesi-
um 137 was on or off. McGee said
once he realized Hartman didn't
know he immediately left the lab.
McGee went home after the
incident and contacted Joseph
Miklos, an Occupational Safety
and Environmental Health coordi-

nator forthe University. According
to Miklos' testimony on Thursday,
he told McGee he couldn't have
been exposed to radiation.
But McGee said in his testi-
mony that Miklos told him he
didn't know for sure if he had been
exposed and suggested he contact
Kearfott. McGee said when he
contacted Kearfott she was upset
at finding out that Hartman had
entered the lab without permis-
sion.
Kearfott testified on Thursday
that the system protecting the
source of Cesium 137 wasn't work-
ing correctly before the two men
entered the lab, but the fact that it
wasn't working made it less likely
that the men had been exposed to
radiation.
McGee reported Hartman's vio-
lations to Radiation Safety Servic-
es and claims he was terminated
for doing so.
On Frida Hartman testified
that he planid to fire McGee long
before the incident because he
wasn't fulfilling his job require-
ments. Hartman said he asked
McGee to finish safety systems
and shielding for a neuron gen-
erator by the end of fall 2007, but
Hartman said he had to finish the

job himself in September 2007.
He added that on Dec. 4 he
e-mailed McGee with a list of
things he wanted completed by the
end of the year. He testified that
two months later McGee had only
completed two of the four tasks on
the list.
After McGee failed to com-
plete the tasks, Hartman said he
contacted William Martin, chair
of the Nuclear Engineering and
Radiological Sciences department,
about firing McGee.
Hartman said Martin suggested
he keep McGee on and proposed
the department pay his salary for
winter 2008. Hartman said he
kept McGee on, but asked him to
complete the safety system by Feb.
1.
After McGee consistently
missed deadlines, Hartman said
he sent McGee an e-mail on
Feb. 19 with deadlines to com-
plete assignments. When McGee
didn't respond, Hartman said
he e-mailed McGee on Feb. 20
informing him of his termination,
adding that he would be paid for
the rest of the semester.
In his testimony Thursday,
McGee said he "literally threw up"
after receiving the e-mail.

From Page IA
University but still reside in the
United States. According to data
from the International Center,
4,574 undergraduate, graduate
and graduate professional inter-
national studentswere enrolled at
the University for the 2008-2009
academic year.
A Nov. 16 article in The New
York Times stated that there were
a total of 671,616 international
students at U.S. universities for
the 2008-2009 academic year, an
increase of 8 percent from the
previous school year.
This trend holds true for the
University of Michigan, Greis-
berger said. '
Unofficial data from the Inter-
national Center shows that there
are about 300 more international
students enrolled at the Universi-
ty for the fall 2009 semester when
compared to the year before, an
increase of 9.4 percent.
Greisberger said international
enrollment numbers have been
fairly level for the past few years,
and that this year's dramatic
increase is "big news" for the Uni-

versity.
Nationally, the country that
sends the most students to the
United States is India. However,
at the University, China leads the
pack. Greisberger reported that
1,277 students are from China,
followed by India with 774 and
South Korea with 770, though
those numbers are unofficial.
When asked why he believed
so many international students
choose to come to Ann Arbor,
Greisberger pointed to the Uni-
versity's "worldwide reputation
for academic excellence," as well
as the services and programs the
University provides to its interna-
tional students.
Through the International
Center, foreign students . are
encouraged to interact with both
U.S. and other international stu-
dents, while also receiving assis-
tance opening a bank account,
applying for a social security
number and learning how to reg-
ister for classes.
"We take seriously the respon-
sibility to help international stu-
dents feel integrated in campus
life," Greisberger said. "To not
just be successful in the class-
room but to be successful outside
the classroom."
Janet Weiss, vice provost
and dean of Rackham Graduate

School, added in an e-mail inter-
view that there are many "loyal"
Rackham alumni around the
world who "encourage students
from their countries to come to
Michigan."
As much as the University has
to offer its international students,
Weiss emphasized the tremen-
dous impact those students have
on the University.
"(International graduate stu-
dents) are very talented and high-
ly motivated students, who enrich
the intellectual and research
environment for everyone who
works with them," Weiss said.
She also noted that these stu-
dents can often assist University
faculty in strengthening ties with
faculty in their home countries,
making the University more glob-
al in its reach.
Greisberger commended the
ability of international students
to bring a global perspective to
the University and its students,
especially those unable to study
abroad.
"I think the international
students here at U of M provide
our domestic students who did
not have the opportunity to go
abroad to have a really meaning-
ful cross-cultural and intercul-
tural experience right here on
campus," he said.

0

Onwireless
-


.it :...r- i
OWN THE DEVICE THAT
WILL HAVE PEOPLE
STUDYING YOU.
With customizable screen panels, embedded wi-fi
capability and Google powered web-browsing, you can
simultaneously run the applications you want - Facebook,
foursquare, Twitter and more.

SIXTH CIRCUIT
From Page 1A
"Simply put, the universities do
not belong in the case," the brief
reads. "The universities did not
draft Proposal 2. They did not pass
Proposal 2. They cannot change
Proposal 2. They are not execu-
tive branch agencies charged with
enforcing Proposal 2."
Michigan Attorney General
Mike Cox is prosecuting the case
for the state.
Various civil rights groups, includ-
ingthe ACLU, NAACP and Immigra-
tion Rights and Fight for Equality By
Any Means Necessary (BAMN) are
opposing the amendment.
Attorney George Washington is
representing BAMN. He said the
fact that minority enrollment has
dropped at universities through-
out the state since the passage of
Proposal 2 shows that the law is
discriminatory.
At the University of Michigan,
data released in October showed
that the enrollment of underrepre-
sentated minorities at the Univer-
sity has declined every year since
the passage of the initiative in
2006. Underrepresented minority
enrollment was down 11.4 percent
from last year.
"This law got on the ballot by
racially targeted fraud." Washing-
ton said. "It results in creating sec-
ond-class citizenship for Black and
Latino citizens. It passed because
white people outvoted Black peo-
ple. Black people voted against it
by 90 percent."
"It results in the exclusion of
Black and Latino students," Wash-
ington continued. "If you put all
those things together, this is the
mostracist law passed in Michigan
in many decades."
Washington said that while
arguments were heard in court
yesterday, a decision is not expect-
ed for several months.
He said that no matter the out-
come, he believes the case will be
appealed to the full, 16-judge 6th
Circuit Court en banc and eventu-
ally to the Supreme Court.
Washington said that after the
court proceedings had concluded,
approximately 100 people - most-
ly African-American college and
high school students - protested
outside the courthouse.
He said the protesters chant-
ed, "They say Jim Crow, we say
hell no!"

Kevin Gaines, director of the
University's Center for Afro-Amer-
ican and African Studies who is
also involved in the case, said in
an interview yesterday that the
Supreme Court previously upheld
the University's use of race as a fac-
tor - not the sole factor - in deter-
mining admissions.
Gaines said that the amendment
is causing the reversal of many
years of work toward racial equal-
ity.
"(The ban) has resulted in the re-
segregation of higher education in
Michigan, especially at the Univer-
sity (of Michigan)," he said.
Law School lecturer Mark
Rosenbaum, a lawyer for the ACLU
who is arguing the case, told Mich-
igan Radio that the ban creates an
uneven playing field between Black
and white students in terms of
admissions.
"You can point out your reli-
gion, you can point out you're a
veteran, you can point out that you
come from the Upper Peninsula,
that you're an oboist, that you're
an alumni, that you're an athlete,"
he said. "You can talk about any-
thing that is salient to your identity
except race."
The plaintiffs are appealing a
March 2008 judgment by U.S. Dis-
trict Court Judge David M. Lawson
that dismissed their lawsuit and
maintained the constitutionality of
the amendment.
"Proposal 2 allows universities
to use neutral criteria - grades,
test scores, schools of origin, com-
munity geographics, economic
factors, and a host of others - in
the admissions process," Lawson
wrote in his decision. "If these fac-
tors are not suitable proxies that
generate racially diverse student
populations, the universities will
be all the poorer, but not because of
conscious discrimination."
Two-thirds of the three-judge
panel that is hearing the case
was appointed by President Bill
Clinton. Those two were part of
the panel that upheld the lower
court's ruling in Grutter v. Bol-
linger on its way to the Supreme
Court. In Grutter, the Supreme
Court ruled in a 5-4 decision that
the University of Michigan's Law
School was within its legal rights
to use race as a factor for admis-
sion. The third judge on the panel,
according to the Chronicle of
Higher Education, is a moderate
Republican appointed by Presi-
dent George W. Bush.

l~efs lt
he L.g an the C n et
ak ndroid fn
Kevinve.
SameTma- am GY
Inadditio a
ukadunk.
MWadelie
Refs kee C C y
the cou saying get off
cor-Whatev er,.
Chris L.,@
GaeTmte aroorephosis Games

A great prico
for an Android
Operating System.
$199.992-yr. price - $100 mail-in rebate debit
card. Requires new 2-yr. activation on a voice
plan with ermalfeature, or email plan.

Abbey K, C Coit Tower
Watching the sunset
Jeff G. L ci

WANT TO WRITE
FOR THE DAILY'S
NEWS SECTION?

0

1.877.2BUY.VZW Cck verizonwireless.com

Vit any Communications Store

11

Send an e-mail to

iI

Activation fee/line:$35($25 for secondary Family SharePlanlines w/ 2-yr. Agmts).
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Agm, Calling Plan, rebate form & creditapproval. Earlytermination fee: up to $175 ($350 for advanced devices) & other charges. Device capabilities: Add'l charges
& conditionsapply. Offers & coverage,avarying byservice, not available everywhere. Whilesupplieslast. Shipping charges may apply. Rebate debit card takes up to 6 weeks & expires in 12 months. Network details & coverage maps
at verizonwireless.com. All company names, trademarks,logos and copyrights not the property of Verizon Wirelessrarethe property of their respective owners. @2009 Verizon Wireless. DROID is a trademark of Lucasfilm Ltd. and its
relatedcompanies.Usedunder license. CPDE

--I .

smilovitz@michigandaily.com
to get started.

r" ! .



0

0

10

The Michigan Daily Wednesday, November 18, 2009

Midnight in the Arb

n the year or so that I've been
at the University, people have
often told me to check out
Nichols Arboretum. I never found
a chance to go and I didn't give it
much thought. In fact, I used to
think the Forest Hills Cemetery
was part of the Arb, though techni-
cally it isn't.
While leaving the School of
Public Health one day, on a whim,
I decided to head over to the Arb.
It was pretty late - about 10 p.m.
- so I searched for a flashlight in
my trunk before setting out. After
failing to find it, I decided to go
anyway. I parked (illegally) in the
Oxford lot and crossed the street.
As I approached the entrance to the
Arb, I was confronted with a choice
between two paths. I decided to go
right and take a short counterclock-
wise loop - with luck, I thought, I
should be back at my starting point
in slightly over amile. A few dazed-
lookingstudents passed me on their
way out and Ibegan to wonder what
I was getting myself into.
It was dark when I started my
adventure but there was enough
ambient light for me to follow
the main trail. I perceived vague
sounds of laughter coming from all
several directions, and I imagined
hordes of drunk people walking
around aimlessly. I later concluded
SCALPING
From page 7B
were generally around $150 the day
before Illinois, with many above
$200 and nearly all over $100. After
the Purdue loss, most tickets were
on sale for around $120, while bar-
gain hunters could find tickets for
under $100. On StubHub, the best
deals for different sections followed
the same pattern.
With Michigan struggling to
clinch a sixth win to secure a bowl
game, many sellers were pessimis-
tic before last week's game against
No. 21 Wisconsin, fearingthat a loss
would sap the Ohio State game of its
importance and its resale value.
"I'd been trying to get a higher
price, but nobody was going for it,"
said an Engineering sophomore who
asked to be anonymous. "Prices are.
decreasing mostly because people
don't want to spend that much since

that the voices were coming from
outside the Arb, and drunk or not,
they posed little threat.
Nevertheless, the oppressive
darkness and solitude began to
weigh on me. The Arb isn't meant
to be an imposing place, but in
the dead of a moonless night, it
can be pretty scary. Soon the trail
emerged from the woods to curve
around an expansive yet desolate
valley. Starting into that undefined
nothingness, my eyes began to play
tricks on me. I felt vulnerable and
alone, and amorphous forms began
to take shape all around me. Then
I saw a large mass just 15 feet away
that I knew couldn't have my imag-
ination. It paused and looked me in
the eye before flitting away. Yes, I
had nearly walked into a deer.
After my encounter with the deer,
I quickly began to grow paranoid. I
started thinking about what little I
knew about deer and if they could
attack a person. What would I do if
the deer followed me? I checked my
cell phone and saw my signal was
only one barastrong. I imagined how
my panicked call to DPS might go.
"Hello Officer, I'm being followed
by a deer in the Arb and I thi'nk it
means to do me harm." I was ready
to hit "send" when I decided totake
a more mature approach. I made ita
point to cough every few feet from
we're doingso badly."
She originally tried to sell her
ticket for $200 during the opening
weeks of the season, and had offers
for $150 that she declined. Eventu-
ally, she sold her ticket for $90 hours
after the Wolverines'lopsided 45-24
loss to Wisconsin on Nov.14.
Online asking prices for Ohio
State took another tumble after
last Saturday's loss. Newer posts on
Craigslist and Facebook Market-
place tended to ask for $100 or less,
with some settling for as little as $45
or $50. Surely, those who planned to
sell after the Notre Dame win but
held out for a better price must be
kicking themselves now.
Another potential avenue for
sellers is to look to Ohio State fans,
whose morale is much higher after-
beinggiven an automatic Rose Bowl
bid and generally have more on the
line to win the game. They are also
more likely to have fewer connec-
tions to Ann Arbor, which means

then on to alert the local animals of being in such an isolated place,
my presence. yet being surrounded by civiliza-
Soon after, I began to notice an 'tion at the same time. At night, the
unmistakable roar that gradually Arb was like a post-nuclear apoca-
grew deafening. This is was to be lypse landscape from a science fic-
the climax of my trip - reach- tion novel - that's how empty and
ing the mighty Huron River. I had vacant it seemed at parts. Yet the
walked along the Huron at night, lights of the campus were always
mostly where it comes near Plym- in view.
I had intended to loop around
at the riverfront but I lost track of
my location after walking about
The surreal half a mile along the river. I ended
0 up, rather anticlimactically, in the
eeriness of a Hospital parking lot. I noticed a
helicopter about to take off at the
solitary walk landing pad and I rushed up the
stairs for a closer look. Watching
through the Arb a helicopter take off from close
distance is actually pretty excit-
at night ing. The sound is loud and power-
ful, almost like a plane. And then it
just sits there with the horizontal
and tail rotors whirring at extreme
outh Road. But this was a different speeds. The actual moment when
experience entirely. In the absence it lifted up in the air was almost
of humanity, I was taken aback by unreal; it seemed impossible that
the loudness and animation of the it could just hover there without
rushing water. The beauty of the falling. It's quite a sight to watch it
scene quickly transformed my ear- happen a few feet before your eyes.
lier fear into awe. Dismayed atcthe unexciting pros-
Campus and the city surround pect of walking down Observatory
the Arb on the north and west, and to my car on Geddes, I decide to re-
I used the brightly lit dormitories enter the Arb andtake another path.
and hospital buildings as land- At this entrance, there were three
marks. It's a surreal experience paths to choose from. I tried them
less of an idea where to find the best wouldn't normally receive. . In
bargain. Multiple Ohio State fans I 2006, the University brought in
contacted for this story told me they $173,000 in validations. The 2007
would be willing to buy any ticket total was approximately $150,000,
for $150 or under. But some Michi- and Bodnar estimates revenue will
gan students are against selling to top $200,000 this year due to the
anyone from Ohio State, essentially additional home game in the sched-
viewing it as treason. ule. In previous years, validations
"If I can't go to a game, I just were $25, but different price tiers
want to give another Michigan stu- enforced this year vary depending
dent the opportunity to experience on the importance of the game. For
a Michigan football game in the the early non-conference games,
Big House," Baydoun said. "It's not the price was $25; for Penn State
about profit. You have to keep the and Purdue, $34; and for Notre
Michigan section as the Michigan Dame and Ohio State, $40.
section." The Ohio State game is a buyer's
The Athletic Department market this year. And as the game
also brings in revenues from the gets even closer, ticket prices are
resale of tickets from students to liable to sink even lower. With
non-students. The student ticket Michigan's prospects for a win this
policy requires that a validation Saturday dim, it will be interesting
sticker must be attached to any to see how many University stu-
tickets being used by fans with- dents will forgo the potential profit
out valid M-Cards, so each time to instead seize their chance to wit-
a student sells to a non-student, ness The Game while they're still
the University earns profits it students.

out, turning back indecisively sev-
eral times before deciding to return
to the map at the entrance. Appar-
ently, they all end up at the same
point, with the leftmost being the
main path and the rightmost being
the most "rustic" one (according to
the map's terminology). Deciding
on the road less traveled, I come
across a new set of fellow travelers
after walking for a few minutes. We
somberly nodded to each other in
acknowledgement of that mystical
brotherhood of midnight Arb trek-
kers that is sure to exist.
I took a right at the flashing blue
emergency light near the river
and followed the path slightly
uphill toward the same valley I
had passed earlier (which I now
call- the Valley of the Deer). This
time, thoggh, the mysterious dark-
ness was a new friend and not an
unknown foe. With each footstep,
I perceived new forms of wildlife
scurrying away - and I knew I was
never alone. After leaving the val-
ley, I soon found myself at the Ged-
des entrance where my quest had
started. Greeted by the sounds of
rowdy partygoers at Oxford Hous-
ing, I walk to my car and back into
the real world.
-Hamdan Azhar is a graduate
student in the School of Public Health.
BREWERS
From page 5B
His current project is alager, a noto-
riously difficult style to make.
"When it was fermenting, it had a
very odd, strong smell," he said. "So
there's a little worry about that, but
I still have to wait another month
until I know."
The waiting game inherent to
home brewing is likely the most
rewarding and agonizing part of it
all. A brewer often has to wait two
monthsto sample the fruit - or fault
ofhis orher laborand it's difficult
to tell ahead of time how it'll turn
out. But that doesn't seem to stop
the University's many student brew-
ers -nearly every contestantin The
Michigan Daily's competition has
another batch already on the way.
-Daily Staff Writer Lila Kalick
contributed to this report.


0 0


0

9

* -" " " 00*

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chiet
Gary Graca
ManagingEditor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor-
Sam Wolson
The Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Sarah Squire
Cover photo:
Jake Fromm
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year

new rules
rule 227:
Incense is only
relaxing for
people who like
the smell. Ask
your roommates
before you light
up your putrid
"lilac" sticks. rule
228: t's:OKto
ask sick people
to sanitize any
surface contami-
nated by their
used tissues. Just
be nice about it.
rule 229: "Get-
ting Ricksy" has
its time and place:
Rick's, Saturday
night. That's it.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

Do you want the
Daily to put on
another 'kind of
cornpetition?
E-mail suggestions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

-- - .-
THEGOLDEN TICKET:
Michigan vs. Ohio State
How to play the scalping game to get the
a most for your OSU-Michigan football ticket
Roger Sauerhaft (Statement Writer


ff4e Michigan Daily

SENT

the ONLINE CLASSIFIED RENTAL MAP -

Arbor
8

FOLLOWK
THE DAILY
NFACEBOOK.

T herivalrybetween
MichiganandOhio
State is known
as "The Game,"
but in Ann Arbor
every other year, it's about
much more than just athlet-
ics. With masses of people
buying and selling tickets to
see the adversaries face off,
the phenomenon creates a
self-contained, informal
economy.
Right after season
tickets are mailed to
students during the
summer, tickets to
the latest installment
of college football's
greatest rivalry
begin appearing on
online marketplaces.
The Ohio State tickets
originally priced $25
and $65 at student and
standard rates, respec-
tively - are often
resold at higher
prices dictated by
both seat location
and by the antici-
pated magni-
tude of the game,
which hikes up
demand. Leading
sellers to strategically
place tickets on the block
at the time during the season
when the demand is greatest to
garner higher asking prices.
The routine runs rampant
across campus, Ann Arbor and
even the state of Michigan. The
practice of purchasing season tick-
ets from the University - either for
the student rate of $200 (not includ-
ing handling), or the standard rate
of $400 - then'selling single tickets
to turn massive profits is so wide-
spread that few have the slightest
inklingofUniversity and state regu-
lations prohibiting scalping.
"It's extremely common for stu-
dents to sell tickets for most games,"
LSA senior Gibran Baydoun said.

"Ohio State is a special market
where students can make a lot of
money.... I see students selling (tick-
ets) out in the open and online, all
pretty openly."
Under Michigan law, the suppli-
er of the tickets - in this case, the
University - is allowed to autho-
rize resale above the face value.
Although the University won't like-
ly do this in most cases, it does allow
profitable reselling by charities. As
the small print on the backside of
each ticket stipulates, tickets also
cannot be sold on University prem-
ises and are subject to Michigan's
scalping policy, which prohibits ille-
gal resale. According to the Univer-
sity's website, any violation of either
state law or University regulations
can result in becoming ineligible
for future season tickets even if no
criminal charges are filed.
One student, who declined to be
interviewed for this article for fear
of repercussions from the Athletic
Department, admitted that the Uni-
versity had once warned her when
she had tried to sell her tickets
online. The University issues many
such warnings each year, but there
have only been one or two-cases of
packages being revoked, said Marty
Bodnar, the associate athletic direc-
tor for ticketing services.
Bodnar said because of policing
difficulties, the ticket office only
looks at the most egregious cases
of scalping. However, he said, the
office does know the identity of
some major scalpers. In addition,
Big Ten schools share scalper infor-
mation with each other.
"Students have to be careful
about our scalping policy," Bodnar
said. "If it gets posted on the Inter-
net, we're watching eBay and other
sites to see who is posting for more
than face value."
eBay, StubHub, Craigslist and
Facebook Marketplace, among
other websites, are all home to ram-
pant scalping. However, due to the
fact that buyers and sellers rarely
reveal their state of residency, state

laws are more difficult to enforce
online, despite what the websites
might promise to do. The light mis-
demeanor penalty (a $100 fine or
a maximum of 90 days in jail) for
getting caught also doesn't strike
enough fear into prospective buy-
ers and sellers to drastically change
market behavior.
Something that does change mar-
ket behavior, on the other hand, is
how the two teams are performing
in the season, which signifies the
importanceof"TheGame"thatyear.
If both teams are doing very well
and the game could have Big Ten or
Bowl Championship Series impli-
cations, demand for the game runs
much higher than if both teams are
undergoing rebuilding years. In col-
lege football, this can change quick-
ly in only one game, so speculation is
conducted on a weekly basis.
The Big Ten champion has been
decided between Michigan and
Ohio State in this game 22 times.
This year, No. 11 Ohio State already
has wrapped up a share of the con-
ference title and a Rose Bowl bid.
Meanwhile, Michigan is unranked
and must upset Ohio State this Sat-
urday to keep from missing its sec-
ond straight bowl game. Mired in
a six-game Big Ten losing streak,
demand for tickets to the big game
has followed a similar plight.
The 38-34 Michigan upset of No.
18 Notre Dame on Sept. 12 brought
expectations for the 2009 Wolver-
ines to a fever pitch and even tempo-
rarily launched Tate Forcier's name
into some early Heisman discus-
sions. But then Michigan's fortunes
took a turn for the worse. Though
the loss to Penn State wasn't entirely
unexpected, the lopsided loss to Illi-
nois on Halloween and the close loss
to Purdue at home a week later had
major repercussions on the market
for Ohio State tickets.
On Craigslist, the simplest of the
major resale sites to track price fluc-
tuation based on time, asking prices
'for individual tickets for Ohio State
See SCALPING, Page 8B


SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



0

0

0

e

0

S " ""0

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

e:~ih

ABOUT CAMPUS

-e,21
AML Ak x'r
z
1

If I got cancer or needed
a kidney, I'd go bankrupt.
We all would.".
- RUSS SARGENT, a 50-year-old bookstore
owner in Portland, Me., describing the state's
problems in providing universal health care.
He typically has to pay doctors in cash, and
he's worried that his insurance company
won't cover him if he becomes seriously ill

"I think I was trying to say
'Janes' as your right name.
Maybe my writing looks
bad, but I was just trying to
say your right name."
- GORDON BROWN, prime minister of Britain,
explaining to a furious woman that he did, in fact,
spell her last name correctly in a letter intended to
console her after her son's death in Afghanistan


I

ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN OQUIST

The quietest frat
on campus
A law school student haunt
tucked behind West Quad
Nestledbetween South Quad and
West Quad is ahouse that remains a
mystery to many students. Its large,
brick frame and massive white col-
umns have the appearance of an
old-time Southern estate, despite
being surrounded by plain-styled
dorms on two sides. It gives off
the essence of exclusiveness and
grandeur, and while it may not be
the home of an obscure University
administrator, a unique campus
group resides inside.
The mansion is home to 25 Uni-
versity law students, all members
of a law fraternity called Phi Delta
Phi. The first legal and professional
fraternity established in the coun-
try, Phid has now expanded to over
130 chapters, called inns, at law
schools. The University of Michi-
gan chapter, founded in 1869, is the
only one with its own house.
Phid took the house over in 1914,
when it was an all-male fraternity
complete with in-house cooks and
cleaners. This setup evaporated
several decades later, though, when
women were first allowed into the
fraternity in the 1960s.
Ten years before that happened,
though, Phid House itself almost
disappeared. The University tried
to claim ownership of the home
in order to tear it down and build
South Quad in its place. But Phid
alumnus and former mayor of Ann
Arbor, William E. Brown, Jr., was
able to convince the University not
to tear the house down. That forced
the University to build South Quad
into an irregular shape surround-
ing Phid House.
Despite being coined a fraternity
by name, Phid House is quite dif-
ferent from the Greek system vari-
ety. For one, Phid has evolved to
be a sort of cross between a frater-

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Obama in China
2. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
3. Water on the moon
And three things you can't:
1. Levi Johnston's Playgirl shoot
2. "2012, the movie
3. 2012, the year

"Garlic is the best, forget the vaccines."
- MARKO JANKOVIC, an elderly man from Belgrade, Serbia, expressing his belief that garlic will
prove effective in guarding against the spread of swine flu among the population. Regarded as a
good luck charm in Serbia, garlic has recently become more expensive as demand for it increases

nity and co-op, which contributes
to the community dynamic that
draws many members to the house.
Each fraternity member has house
duties, like cleaning the kitchen
and common areas, and everyone is
responsible for preparing his or her
own food, diverging from Phid's
history of having cooks and house-
keepers. Also similar to a co-op is
the inexpensive rent - Phid presi-
dent Robert Escalante said resident
members only pay $400 a month.
Despite sporting Greek letters,
Phid House doesn't often host riot-
ous keggers - law students can't
often spare the study time. This
more subdued atmosphere is what
Escalante called the house's "law
school personality."
Phid House does host one big
blowout each semester, though,
which allows for many members of
the Law School community to let
their hair down for one night. To
the chagrin of undergraduate stu-
dents, however, Phid limits these
bi-annual parties to graduate and
professional students in order to
prevent underage drinking at the

house, Escalante said.
But with the dorms soclose, Phid
House isn't always successful in
keeping eager freshmen out. Many
an undergraduate have walked
past those white columns, or snuck
in the back door of the house after
being rejected once.
Members of Phid have a sys-
tem of weeding out the non-grad
students, which includes having
bouncers at their parties and try-
ing to figure out who may be beer-
thirsty undergraduates by quizzing
them with questions that are likely
to trip them up.
"(We) had to throw them out
of the house, but (it) isn't fun,"
Escalante said, referring to a party
last year at which members of Phid
tossed out several undergraduates.
"Everyone wants to get into the
party."
The rejected undergraduates
can't be too hurt, though, as most
don't seem to realize anyone even
lives at 502 East Madison Street.
Phid member Kate Mitroka said
this is due to the studious nature
of law students and the fact that

undergraduates and law students
tend to exist in different spheres on
campus.
"I think that sort of inherent dis-
tinction between the two groups
just sort of means their own lives
and centers of gravity are sort
of distinct," said Mitroka, who
recalled times as an undergradu-
ate here when she wondered what
went on inside the mysterious brick
abode she now calls home.
Despite hosting the future law-
yers of the nation, Phid house has
faced its share of obstacles, includ-
ing the threat of eviction posed
last year. Escalante attributes this
brush with homelessness to a lax
attitude toward city regulations,
which tend to slip the minds of
Phid members who are busy work-
ing toward their degree.
Phid House provides something
different to those looking to do
more during law school than hole
themselves up in the library. It
offers a support system and sense
of community for its members,
which includes law students of all
three years, ranging in age from 20

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
to 35. The members' diverse back-
grounds and life experiences are a
draw for many.
"The idea of being around people
who have different perspectives
and come from different walks of
life makes your living experience
more robust and more fulfilling,"
Mitroka said. "And I think that's
important when you spend so much
time with your nose-in a book and
in class and dealing with things
that get you really wrapped up in
yourself.
"Living with family and with a
community really helps you both
stay grounded and gives you the
distraction that's necessary to stay
sane."
A mystery to many, Phid House
is a fulfilling home for its members
and perhaps a source of resent-
ment for University Housing. Next
time you hear a cacophony of music
and chatter coming from the mini-
mansion, try your luck to get in.
You may just see your polisci GSI
doing a keg stand for the one and
only time that semester.
-NICOLEABER

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Birds of beauty
For those who were disturbed by
Alfred Hitchcock's harrowing 1963
movie, "The Birds," which depicts a
town attacked by violent birds, this
video might prove simply terrifying.
Or, at the very least, astonishing.
Filmed in Denmark, this clip
showcases a flock of 300,000 birds
swooping through the air in unison
above a barren field. Other than a
block of text that reads "300,000
starlings in spring ballet," the video
features no commentary or intima-
tions of how the producers found
these birds.
As the video progresses, the birds
move in effortlessly coordinated
waves, making different shapes that
seem to be real objects. At one point,
the birds array themselves in what
appears like a voluminous gown,
with thick sleeves jutting out from
each side of a swaying and billowing.
torso. After a second, though, they
uniformly dissemble and become
amorphous once again. The birds
then begin moving gradually across
the vast expanse of field, the little
black dots scattering in a frenzy of
activity.
The birds' constant motion has a
steady, almost soothing rhythm to
it. The flock does, indeed, seem like
a ballet, transitioning gracefully into
various shapes patterned against a
backdrop of blue sky. It is calming,
stunning and aesthetically pleasing.
Let's just hope they don't attack.
- BRIAN TENGEL

BY THE NUMBERS
The ranking of Joaquin Guzman, leader of the Sinaloa drug cartel, in
Forbes Magazine's list of the world's most powerful people
The upward estimate, in dollars, of cocaine Guzman has shipped to
the United States over the last eight years
The amount, in dollars, federal authorities are offering for
Guzman's capture
Source, cNN

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Reading "Rogue" - Sarah Palin's new semi-auto-
biographical, wholly confrontational book, "Going
Rogue," isn't worth a lot as far as factual accounts
go. But it could make for an interesting drinking
game. Someone start with a criticism the McCain
campaign made of Palin. The next person respond
with a counter-attack from "Rogue." Go back and
forth until someone slips up and has to drink. A Levi
Johnston reference means players drink twice.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Men are more likely to leave a spouse with cancer
Men are six times more likely to abandon a female partner who has
cancer than females are to leave a male partner with cancer, according
to a study recently published in the journal Cancer and led by Dr. Marc
Chamberlain, a director at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance.
In the study, the researchers took 515 men and women and divided
them into different groups based on their diagnosis: 214 patients.had
a malignant brain tumor, 193 patients had a solid tumor unrelated
to the central nervous system and 108 patients had multiple scerlo-
sis. The researchers observed the subjects from 2001 or 2002 until
2006.
They found that the overall divorce rate among the group was 12
percent, which is lower than that of the normal population. However,
when the researchers examined gender as a variable, they concluded
that the rate was 21 percent when women were diagnosed with can-
cer and only 3 percent when men had the fatal disease.
- BRIAN TENGEL

WWW.MICH IGANDAILY.COM/SECTION/BLOGS




TheMichig anDaIy-We d nesdayN ovemb e r182009

0

t

Home brew is where the heart Is
Student brewers met at Arbor Brewing Company for The Michigan Daily's first home brew
competition. While judges scored the beer, we asked the entrants about their hoppy hobby. By Jessica Vosgerchian 11 Ma

a
igazine Editor

i

.n .
C

T he conversation in Arbor Brew-
ing Company last Sunday was far
from the norm. Words like "estery,"
"diacetyl" and "phenolic" were tossed
around with ease. Patrons traded sto-
ries describing gruesome scenes - "It
looked like we had sacrificed a goat" -
and violent explosions - "The best is
when you have fruit in it and it blows up
and hits your ceiling."
It wasn't a meeting of Mad Scientists
Anonymous - not officially, at least.
ABC's Tap Room served as the setting
for The Michigan Daily's first home
hr~x~nrtnrn~ttjn iA~idh+t1d-+tQ

submitted their own beer to be judged
by a panel of local experts: Matt Greff,
owner of ABC, Ron Jeffries, owner of
Jolly Pumpkin, and Alex Petit, a mem-
ber of the Ann Arbor Brewers Guild.
The contest featured 25 entries and
17 styles. To accommodate the diverse
field of entries, traditional categories
were consolidated into three broad
groups: Light/Amber, Strong/Spiced
and Dark. Judging criteria included
overall quality and adherence to style
as established by the Beer Judge Certi-
fication Program.
The Daily held this contest to create
a forum for what seems to be
a growing number of students
who are taking up brewing as a
hobby. Entries varied widely in
style, inventiveness and qual-
ity, but all confirmed a trend
of college students who are
forsaking the "dirty thirty"
of cheap macro-brew to try to
make beersworth drinking.
"I think there's a big surge of
people enjoying and appreciat-
ing craft beer, which tends to
lead peopleto maketheirown,"
said Engineeringgraduate stu-
dent Ian Stines, a member of
the Ann Arbor Brewers Guild
whose Obama Victory Porter
eaiy won Best of Show.
Stines said the guild has
increased its membership
n- to over 100 this year, which
reflects a burgeoning interest
in home brewing.
But most of the contestants
knew few other home brew-
ers before the contest, having

or in twos or threes with little guidance
other than Internet research.
"(A friend's dad) got me into good
beer, so I wanted to take the next step
andmakemyown," saidfBryan Yestrep-
sky, a medicinal chemistry graduate
student. "And then I found a set online
for $100 and had to go for it."
The contest judges, who were ,all
once amateur brewers themselves, were
eager to provide constructive criticism
to guide brewers who have developed
theirunderstanding ofbeer from books,
websites and pure experimentation.
Greff, whose Corner Brewery in
Ypsilanti still makes five recipes he
developed as a home brewer, said the
best thing about brewing is the commu-
nity of fellow travelers to geek out with.
"(It's a) collegiate atmosphere," he
said. "People grew up together. People
help each other out, share recipes."
While the judges scored the entries,
the brewers swapped recipes and tech-
niques - along with stories of more
than a few bloopers that almost inevi-
tably accompany any foray into home
brewing.
Several brewers said specialty ingre-
dients like fruit and honey can affect
thecarbonationinsurprisingways,ren-
dering beer as flat as water and syrup or
causing bottles to erupt when opened.
While brewing your own beer can be
economical, mistakes can be expensive.
Business senior Jason Hollingsworth
learned this the hard way during one of
his first attempts to brew.
"It was one of my first times brewing
and (I) put the wort (unfermentedbeer)
into the carboy before cooling it in the
boiling pot first," Hollingsworth wrote

carboy in the bathtub and turned on the
cold water to cool it down, and because
of the temperature difference, the glass
carboy shattered into a hundred pieces.
$40 of beer ingredients literally went
down the drain, taking my $60 carboy
with it. I learned not to make that mis-
take again."
Appreciating good beer takes sophis-
tication. But as accounts from the con-
testants show, tryingto make itrequires
other qualities - dedication, creativity
and nerve.
From beginning to end, brewing
a single batch is a process that takes
months. A concoction must be mixed,
boiled, fermented, bottled and then left
to sit for weeks before it is drinkable.
The step-by-step procedure required
in home brewing might explain why so
many of the contestants had science
backgrounds. Many brewers inter-
viewed said they were attracted to
brewing because it was a way to be cre-
ative with science.
"It's basically just to have creative
control over the product," Engineering
senior Chris Moline said. "It's creative
but you still have to follow a technical
procedure."
13ut while home brewers tend to be
the type who have no problem with lab
assignments, the interesting part of
their hobby is when they stray from the
formula. When brewing for your enjoy-
ment, there's no harm (except for stain-
ing your ceiling, perhaps) in throwing
something unexpected into the mix to
see what happens.
"It can be as scientific as someone
wants it to be or it's just throw every-
thing into a barrel and hope for the

Joe Munski said.
Mike Elchinger,
a School of Natural
Resources graduate
student, got a little
creative with the
pale ale he entered
in the Light/Amber
category. Instead of
picking up brewer's
sugar from Beer
Depot, he used pow-
dered sugar that he
already had at his
house a liberty
that didn't seem to
hurt him too badly
with the judges, as
his pale ale received
ascore of53.
"I thought it was
going to be a bad
batch,sothefactthat
it was drinkable was
a surprise," he said.
But Elchinger,
whose pumpkin ale
won the Strong/ Co
Spiced category, said Contest judges Matt Greff and Alex Petit score an entry and write
henevercutscorners
when it comes to
the most important
aspect of assuring quality beer: keeping issues by all three judges, garnering
equipment clean. comments like "vegetables are over-
If brewers don't sanitize every piece whelming," "medicinal aroma" and
of equipment that comes into contact "dish water."
with their brew, they risk distorting the But what more often plagued the con-
batch with impurities caused by bacte- testant brewers was difficulty balanc-
ria contamination. These impurities ing flavors or classifying their entries
can manifest as an aroma of rotten eggs correctly.
or the flavor of plastic. Another judge wrote about a high-
One not-so-delicious pumpkin ale scoring black stout: "Perhaps stout

(TOP) JAKE FROOMM; (BOTTOM LEFT, RIGHT) SAID ALSALAH/D
(TOP) The brewing contest received 25 entries enconmpassing 17
different styles, which judges scored without any knowledge of the
brewers' identities. (LEFT) The brewing supplies of Best of Show wi
ner Ian Stines, an engineering graduate student. (ABOVE) Contest
judges scored entries on a variety of characteristics: aroma, appear
ance, flavor, mouthfeel and overall expression.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
eedback for the brewer to consider.
though."
Engineering graduate student Joel
Forman, the creator of the black stout,
only started brewing six months ago
but has yet to have a batch go awry.
"I'm waiting for a batch to turn out
poorly just to get that over with," he
said.
He might not have to wait long,
though.
too REWERS. Page 8B

The
best
of our
brewers

Ian Stines
Best of show winner: Obama Victory Porter
Dark winner: Obama Victory Porter
Light/Amber winner: Hawley's Hop Farm Fresh Harvest Acceptance Letter Ale
A year after the presidential elec- Another beer of Stines, an imperial try at a German hefeweizen, brewing
tion, it's only appropriate that Ian wit, scored 94 points in the Light/ has gone smoothly for Stines.
Stines's Obama Victory Porter would Amber category. "Actually, my first batch turned out
emerge as the winner of The Michi- According to the Beer Judge Certi- pretty good, which I understand is not
gan Daily's brewing contest Sunday. fication Program's guidelines, Stines's the actual norm," Stines said.
The only beer to receive a triple- scores qualify his beer as "very good," With a firm grasp of style, Stines
digit score, the porter earned a total or "generally within style parameters is looking to challenge himself with
of 100 points out of 150 for what one (with) some minor flaws." twists on his old technique. He has a
judge commented was a "good bit- While many other entries seemed couple of carboys of homemade cider
terness and hop aroma." to be incorrectly classified, Stines's going right now and hopes to master
That wasn't the only credit to brews stood out from the rest for the method of aging beer with toasted
Stines, though. Before his porter adherence to style. woodchips.
won the Dark category, his mouth- A member of the Ann ArborBrewers "I've only tried it once and I think I
ful of an American IPA - Hawley's Guild, Stines has had plenty of prac- let it sit on the wood a little too long,"
Farm Fresh Harvest Acceptance tice since he started brewing about a he said. "It didn't work out too suc-
Letter Ale - took the Light/Amber year and a half ago - not that he has cessfully - it was little bit too much
category with a total of 97 points. necessarily needed it. From his first like chewing on a tree branch."

Mike Elchinger
Strong/Spiced/Specialty winner: Pumpkin Ale

Mike Elchinger, a graduate
student in the School of Natural
Resources, knew he had a good
thing whenhe altered his pumpkin
ale recipe to include real pumpkin
instead of flavoring.
"I would call it amore authentic
taste, better color in the beer and
probably a better mouthfeel," he
said.
The Michigan Daily's brewing
contest judges agreed. Elchinger's
pumpkin ale won the Strong/
Spiced category with 92 points.
The pumpkin ale was in the
running with a diverse array of
entries, ranging from Imperial
IPA to Chocolate Chili Ale. On
advice from contest judge Alex

Petit, boldly flavored styles were
grouped with specialty beers for
being more flavorful than the
other entries.
But Elchinger came out ahead
for his impeccably balanced spices
- although the judges' comments
suggested that the flavors should
be toned down a smidge..
"Spices are over the top but
good," wrote one judge.
Elchinger said the judges'
feedback confirmed his prior sus-
picions about the recipe and con-
vinced him to cut back on spices
next time.
After his brother introduced
him to the hobby, Elchinger first
tried his hand at brewing with

a batch of brown ale. He said he
found brewingto be away to satis-
fy his "pension for self-synthesis."
"I want to make things," he
said.
Elchinger is open to experi-
mentation in brewing, but he is
strictly committed to keeping his
creations free of contamination.
"What are the three rules of
brewing?" he said. "Sanitation,
sanitation, sanitation - right?"
After sampling other brew-
ers' beers and comparing recipes,
Elchinger said he walked away
from the contest with a couple
ideas for future projects, like bas-
ing a batch on butterscotch or try-
ing a coffee stout.

----- - ----- --


