: alt e ly wood to , esl 40 t tntehg-tes o-a o
F-e Th-Statrnentins6d
Alp~id an 4:atlm

Ann Arbor, Michigan
RUNNING A BUSINESS RIGHT
Ross won't
up focus on
ethcsyet
Critics push for revitalized
ethics effort in business schools
after greed helped worsen
the nation's financial crisis
By MALLORY JONES
and DEVON THORSBY
Daily Staff Reporters
As the Federal government bails out many of the
nation's companies and financial institutions, ques-
tions have arisen about the integrity of the people
leading American businesses. In the face of these calls
for a change in the way business operates, the Ross
School of Business is altering the way it teaches its
future business leaders.
An article published in The New York Times on
March 5 suggested business schools nationwide are
adjusting their curricula to instill better business val-
ues in their students. The Ross School of Business is
among these schools, according to professors and stu-
dents in the school.
But while school officials say the downturn is often
discussed in Business School classrooms, they report
that there are no immediate plan's to alter the schools
curricula.
Valerie Suslow, associate dean for degree pro-
grams at the Business School, said the school has
always tried to promote ethical business practices to
its students. According to Suslow, the school has con-
sistently focused on teaching the implications of man-
agement decisions.
"The best business schools are serious about instill-
ing a sense of responsibility and ethics," Suslow said.
"But in the real world, unfortunately, there are some-
times tremendous financial and social incentives that
can work against what we have tried to instill as good
leadership practices."
Suslow said because the events surrounding the
current financial crisis are still unfolding, no new
courses have been created specifically on the topic.
Butwhile no concrete changes have taken place, Sus-
See BUSINESS ETHICS, Page 7A

Wednesday, March 25,2009_michigandailycom
PACKED (ART) HOUSE UNIVERSITY HEALTH SYSTEM
UMHS foots
Sgrowingbill
r 1 1 n.for free care

In
cl
jur
at

Fac
free I
who c
Unive
Syster
anoth
busin
officia
Th
provir
300,0
$170
care ii
doubl
fiscal
Wh
has or
trend
econo
years,
ling a
worst
more I
U.S. D
As
ens, t
cuts
Michi
ous p
to qu
wealt
In

i poor economy, charity care, hospitals are re-
examiningthe waysinwhichthey
harity care has can continue to care for patients
in emergency situations, regard-
nped 93 percent less of the patient's insurance sta-
tus, which they are required to do
'U in two years per a 1986 federal law.
Helen Levy, research assis-
By EMILY ORLEY tant professor at the University's
Daily StaffReporter Institute for Social Research, said
the state's compounding unem-
ing a 93 percent increase in ployment problems have put a
health care costs to people significant strain on Michigan's
annot afford insurance, the hospitals.
rsity of Michigan Health "Because of the recession,
to is being forced to take fewer people can pay for health
er look at the way they do care services that they need, so
ess, according to hospital hospitals will have to provide
als. more uncompensated care," Levy
e health system - which said.
des care to more than According to the Center for
00 patients per year - spent Healthcare Research & Trans-
million of uncompensated formation, from 2006 to 2007, the
n fiscal year 2008 - almost number of Michigan residents
e the $88 million it spent in who didn't have health insurance
year 2006. increased from 10.5 percent to
tile the national economy 11.6 percent of Michigan's total
sly experienced a downward population.
since last fall, Michigan's The increase inuninsured resi-
my has been suffering for dents has forced the University
weighed down by the fledg- health system to reorganize their
uto industry and the nation's priorities, said Shantell Kirkend-
unemployment rate - now oll, senior public relations repre-
than 11 percent according to sentative for University Hospital.
)epartment of Labor. "We are absorbing the cost of
the state's economy wors- charity care and bad debt as part
he combination of benefit of our overall budget planning,"
and layoffs has left many Kirkendoll said.
igan residents on the peril- In addition to the $170 million
lateau of being too young of uncompensated direct patient
alify for Medicare and too care, Doug Strong, director and
hy to qualify for Medicaid. chief executive officer of the Uni-
the wake of this boom in See HOSPITAL, Page 7A

Students pack the recently renovated Museum ofArt last night during the sneak preview open only
to University students. Art & Design sophomore Katharine Drake said she was impressed with the
museum's facelift, at the event last night - which celebrated the building's two-year, $41.9 million
renovation. "I think the space they created is amazing and displays the art beautifully," she said.

CONCENTRATING IN COLLECTIONS
Calling all curators: 'U'
to offer Museums minor

New concentration
will prepare students
for a variety of
museum-related jobs
By VALIANT LOWITZ
Daily StaffReporter
Beginning in Fall 2009, the Uni-
versity will make an addition to its
already extensive list of undergrad-
uate minors.
The minor in Museum Studies
is an 18-credit-hour program that
will incorporate themes ranging

from museums in society to objects
and collections.
According to the University's
History of Art website, the new
minor's goal will be to teach stu-
dents the purpose of museums, in
both a historical and modern con-
text, and prepare them for a number
of careers in museum-related fields.
The minor will also focus on the
ways in which museums add mean-
ing to objects, and how such objects
are redefined within the context of
the museum setting.
Raymond Silverman, director
of the Museum Studies Program
and professor of History of Art
and Afro-American and African

studies, said the minor is open to
all students who are interested in
museum work.
"Being a minor, it's going to be
an introduction to museums," Sil-
verman said, "It will be a stepping
stone into jobs at a range of differ-
ent types of museums, depending
on the interests of the student. A
very conscious decision was made
not to make it a concentration."
He added that the minor will
give students the flexibility to work
in any section of a museum that
interest them.
"Larger museums have a good
deal of specialization," Silver-
See MUSEUM MINOR, Page 7A

Outgoing MSA President Sabrina Shingwani passes the gavel to incoming President Abhishek Mahanti at last night'swreeting.
MSA transitions to its new leaders

STIMULUS AND THE LOCAL ECONOMY
County gets money to weatherize

$
Stir
go t
low

4.2 million in three years, starting April 1, thanks
to a $4.2 million grant from the
nulus funds will 2009 federal stimulus package.
According to Aaron Kraft, the
oward updating county's weatherization program
coordinator, the county usually has
-income housing an annual budget of approximately
$350,000, which covers about 100
By LARA ZADE homes.
Daily StaffReporter As a result of the weatherization,
Kraft said homeowners could see
htenaw County will be up to a 20 percent reduction in their
weatherize about 600 low- utility bills. In addition to extra
homes within the next change in their pockets, homeown-

ers will benefit from more comfort-
able and higher valued homes.
The millions of dollars in fund-
ing will cover all of the costs the
program needs to run, including
the costs of installing insulation,
home inspections, equipment and
employing staff.
According to the Michigan
Department of Human Services
Community ServicesPolicy Manual,
in order to be eligible for the fund-
ing, a household's annual income
See WEATHERIZATION, Page 7A

At swearing-in
meeting, outgoing
leaders disagree on
the state of assembly
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
At a meeting to swear in
Abhishek Mahanti and Michael
Rorro as the new leaders of the
Michigan Student Assembly, the
body's new beginning was juxta-
posed with a difference of opinion
about the current state of MSA by
two people who know it well.
Teary-eyed, outgoing Presi-
dent Sabrina Shingwani said her
four years in MSA were extremely

beneficial because the experience
exposed her to events and causes
and helped her form friendships
with a diverse group of people.
Shingwani stressed the impor-
tance of representatives mak-
ing the most of their time on the
assembly. She said representatives
should realize MSA's powerto cre-
ate change on campus and make it
their responsibility to bring about
that change.
"Look through the old minutes
and you will be overwhelmed by
everything that MSA has accom-
plished until now," she said. "It's
up to you to carry on that legacy of
hard work."
Outgoing Vice President Arvind
Sohoni said MSA helped him form
lasting friendships, but that he
doesn't feel that MSA effectively

serves the needs of the students to
its fullest extent.
"I leave knowing that we're
still a little bit short of reaching
our potential," he said. "We're
in a body far too concerned with
our internal struggles, whether it
be the latest code change or our
retreats, neither of which has a
direct effect on our student con-
stituents."
"In my mind, MSA should have
two fundamental goals: first, to
serve the student body in the most
effective, efficient way possible,
second, to develop experienced
student leaders," Sohoni contin-
ued. "At this point, I'm not sure
we're doing either as effectively as
we would like."
Last night's meeting at the
See MSA, Page 7A

Wass
able to
income


WEATHER HI: 53
TOMORROW LO:32

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Video of the Daily's tour of the Museum of Art.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/VIDEO

INDEX NEW S................
Vol. CXIX,No.116 OPINION.....,....,
A0.9.The.Michiean Daily A .TS.
michigandailycom

............2A C LA SSIFIED S.......... A...........6A
. .. 4A SPO RTS I....... .......... A....... 8A
............5A THE STATEMENT ..................1B


2A - Wednesday, March 25, 2009

TAKE ONE

Calculating confidence

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
irl Miian DAMh
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandailycom bugli@michigandailycam
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.nt a.m.--2a.m.
734-763-2454
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
c orrectians corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section arts@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@moichigandaily.com

Few students walking in
across the Diag are aware ti
that one of the major pre- ti
dictors of consumer confi-
dence in the United States sit
is conducted right here on c
campus. h
The Michigan Consumer th
Sentiment Index, started in it
the 1940s, aims to measure m
how consumer spending
and saving decisions influ- al
ence the overall economic er
health of the economy, ec
according to the University al
Survey Research Center's to
website. li
Researchers at the SRC ar
call at least 500 people or
once a month from all si
states except Hawaii and h
Alaska. They ask respon- h
dents questions about in
their current confidence a]
CRIME NOTES
Dessert stolen,
recovered from
Markley
WHERE: Mary Markley Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 1:05
p.m.
WHAT: A Markley resident
stole 22 ice cream sandwiches
from the Dining Services
Department at Markley Mall,
University Police reported.
The sandwiches were valued
at a total $7.96 and were later
recovered.
Stethoscope
swiped
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 5:50
p.m.
WHAT: A subject stole a
stethoscope valued at $60,
University Police reported.
The stethoscope was left
unattended for three days.

their financial situa-
ons and future economic
mes.
According to the web-
te, the graphs of consumer
onfidence and economic
ealth show a correlation
hat makes the survey a very
mportant tool for econo-
ists across the country.
There are also questions
bout unemployment, gov-
rnmental actions in the
conomic sector and the
bility of each respondent
o buy various products,
ke a car. Survey subjects
re asked to respond based
n their own financial
tuations, their views of
ow others are doing and
ow they think businesses
America are doing over-
A1.

In addition to giv-
ing their opinions on the
survey, subjects are also
asked to provide an expla-
nation for their levels of
confidence in the econo-
my and the government's
economic actions.
According to the web-
site's description of the
survey, these follow-up
questions reflect a grow-
ing interest in not only
projecting what consum-
ers will do, but also under-
standing why consumers
make certain spending
and saving decisions.
Richard T. Curtin Ph.D,
a senior associate research
scientist at the UM Institute
for Social Research, cur-
rently directs the survey.
- ASA SMITH

Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlinteads@michigandaily.com

The Ann Arbor Film Festival kicked off with a Gala Reception, providing the community
with popcorn and a taste of the elegance and glamour that is often associated with the
film industry.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Subject with Lecture on Social justice
marijuana found human rights, symposium
in hospital architecture WHAT: Prof.Richard
Bernstein and Prof. Greg

gory

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 3:20
p.m.
WHAT: A subject was
arrested for possession of
marijuana, University Police
reported. The case is under
investigation.
Skateboarder

WHAT: A lecture on human
rights and architecture enti-
tled "A Humanity without
humans."
WHO: Center for Inter-
national and Comparative
Studies
WHEN: Today at 2:30 p.m.
WHERE:. Suite 2660, Inter-
national Institute
Autism research

warned outside presentation
T Tf!T

Markus will speak as part of
the Sadaqa SJN Symposium.
In addition to the speakers
the event will feature booths
from 20 student and faculty
organizations.
WHO: Sadaqa SJN
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Ballroom, The
Michigan League
CORRECTIONS.-
. A photo caption in Mon-
day's edition of the Daily
(Demanding drug reform)
incorrectly identified Grand
Valley State student Derek
Coop as being dead. Coop
was shot, but not killed.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

In Fort Pierce, Fla., an
18-year-old woman was
arrested on a child abuse
charge after burning her
younger brother with her curl-
ing iron after she denied him
the use of the shower, TC Palm
News reported. In the women's
defense, her brother broke into
the bathroom with a knife.
The Patriot Act contains
several ideological-
exclusion policies
to prevent the immigra-
tion of people with cer-
tain ideological values.
a>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A.
A Bangkok fireman con-
vinced an eight-year-
old boy to climb off the
third-floor window ledge by
dressing up as Spider-Man,
BBC News reported. Teachers
failed to convince the boy to
come back inside.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaity.com
JacobSmilovitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIyOR eNEWS EDITORS: JillianBerman, Trevor Calero,CaitlinSchneider,
ASISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandailycom
ASSOCIATE EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: EmadAnsari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTNSORSEDITORS:Ryan Kartje,Ian Kay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
David WatRick ManagEn Art Edir won oatnick@michiandaily.com
SEIRs RTS EDITO:n Jamieolok,BnoConrai,hitone ow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandailycom
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTOEDITORS:SaidAlsalah,sChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,RobMigrin,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica osgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy Chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertisingsales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman;Christie Phillips
RyanBusinski classifiedSalesManager
ClassifiedSalesAssistantManager:AlisonThomas
Marissa Gerber onlineSales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceeManagers
TheMichiganDaly(SSNO745-967)ispublishedMondaythroughFridayduringthefallandwinter
te"sby scrztudessteUnistyofihian. o e alefrecargentol rader.
Atoarl coies eadnpat tetDalys offie for 2.Subcitiosfr fallandawinter term
(September through April)via U.S.mailare$200.Year round subscriptionsr FalWinterSpringand
Summer issues)are $225 Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a memberof The
AsociaedOPresade rAsociatedCollegite Press

U UM
WHERE: Shapiro Undergradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 1:40
p.m.
WHAT: A subject was caught
skateboarding in front of
the UGLi, University Police
reported. The subject was
given a verbal warning.

WHAT: Researchers from the
University Autism and Com-
municative Disorders Center
will present their findings and
research as part of disabilities
awareness week.
WHO: Best Buddies
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m. to
6:30 p.m.
WHERE: AndersonRoom,
Michigan Union

0

Win an all-expenses-paid shadowing
opportunity in Chicago this spring!
Dream jobs--alumni have them. And we can hook you up with
Michigan Apprentice, a free one-day shadowing opportunity with
high-profile alumni. The Alumni Association will help you prepare
for your next stage in life even before you graduate.
Here's your chance for an unforgettable career and personal
development experience with top-notch Michigan alumni. If you're
a junior or senior you could be selected for an all-expenses-paid
one-day internship.
Here are the spring 2009 Michigan Apprentice opportunities:
" Mark Silverman, '91, president of the Big Ten Network
" Brian Kerwin, '86, co-vice chair of the law firm of Duane Morris, LLP.
* Jennifer Golomb, '99, marketing manager of the Altoids brand at the
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
" Robert R. Bellick, '87, co-founder of Wolverine Trading, LLC
" David S. Evans, '85, chairman of Glencoe Limited, LLC, a Chicago-
based merchant bank.
Application deadline is Sunday, April 5.
Get details on how to apply at ALUMNIASSOCIATION
www.umalumni.com/students. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

0
0
0

0

YK.LE V1U V 1
Thursday, March 26
9:00 PM
Natural Science Auditorium

Download a Screening Pass at
UberPuzicom
or Pick up a Screening Pass at the
UAC Office at 4002 Michigan Union

0

UberDuzi.com

I-

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 25, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 25, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
. DETROIT
GM begins white-
collar layoffs with
160 pink slips
Dreaded white-collar job cuts at
General Motors Corp. started yes-
terday as the wounded automaker
began to deliver on promises to
the government to shrink its work
force so it can be profitable at lower
sales levels.
Yesterday morning, GM told 160
people at its manufacturing engi-
neeringoperations inWarrenMich.,
that they would be laid off as of April
1, spokesman Tom Wilkinson said.
It's the beginning of 3,400 sala-
ried layoffs in the U.S. and part of
the 47,000 job cuts that GM wants
to accomplish worldwide by the
end of the year, Wilkinson said.
"It will impact every area of
" the business. Some of those will
be through normal attrition, but
there will be a significant number
of involuntary separations coming
from now through the early part of
May," Wilkinson said.
WASHINGTON
Iverson ordered to
pay $260K for
bar fight in 2005
NBA star Allen Iverson must pay
$260,000 for standing idly by and
watching his bodyguard beat up
another man in a 2005 bar fight, a
federal appeals court ruled yester-
Wday.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit
rejected the Detroit Pistons guard's
attempt to throw out the verdict
decided by a jury in 2007.
Bar patron Marlin Godfrey
accusedIverson'sbodyguard,Jason
Kane, of punching, kicking and hit-
ting him with a bottle because he
refused to vacate the VIP section
at Washington club Eyebar to make
way for the basketball star and
his entourage. Godfrey suffered a
concussion, a ruptured eardrum, a
burst blood vessel in his eye, a torn
rotator cuff, cuts and bruises, and
emotional injuries.
A three-judge appeals court
panel wrote that Iverson stayed out
of the fray in the back corner of the
VIP area, standing on a couch or
bench and observing.
DETROIT
Woman gets three
years probation for
hosting sex party
A woman accused of hosting a
party at her Detroit home featur-
ing lap dances, sex and her par-
tially nude 16-year-old daughter
has been sentenced to three years'
probation.
Wayne County Circuit Judge
Thomas Jackson yesterday sen-
tenced the woman, who pleaded
guilty last month to maintaining or
operating a house of ill fame.
Jackson also sentenced Samuel
Benning, who was arrested at the
Dec. 7 party, to at least one year in

prison. The Detroit man pleaded
guilty to drug and other charges.
Jackson found Stanley Ferguson
of Detroit guilty in a bench trial of
an alcohol charge. He will be sen-
tenced April 16.
FARGO, N.D.
City comes together
in race against river
As the swelling Red River lapped
within 30 feet of his back door, Car-
lis Kramer's property resembled
nothing so much as a bustling con-
struction site.
In a well-ordered ballet, four
people loaded sandbags, four others
hauled them to the house and anoth-
er person stacked them into a dike.
This is how Fargo responds to
the threat of record flooding: Hun-
dreds of people from all walks of
life have joined forces to shield the
community from the rising river,
racing to fill 2 million sandbags.
The effort has drawn football
players, soldiers, high school stu-
dents, even a Microsoft engineer
- all fearful of enduring another
disaster like the devastating floods
of 1997.
"A friend of mine brought his
neighbor's kids, and friends of
family bring boyfriends and girl-
friends," Kramer said.
The 1997 floods forced tens of
thousands of people to flee homes
in North Dakota, Minnesota and
southern Canada in one of the cost-
liest and largest flood evacuations
in U.S. history before Hurricane
Katrina.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Insurers offer to stop
charging the sick more

Proposal introduced
in a letter to key
senators yesterday
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
health insurance industry offered
yesterday for the first time to
curb its controversial practice
of charging higher premiums to
people with a history of medical
problems.
The offer from America's
Health Insurance Plans and the
Blue Cross and Blue Shield Asso-
ciation is a potentially significant
shift in the debate over reforming
the nation's health care system
to rein in costs and cover an esti-
mated 48 million uninsured peo-
ple. It was contained in a letter to
key senators.
In the letter, the two insurance
industry groups said their mem-
bers are willing to "phase out the
practice of varying premiums
based on health status in the indi-
vidual market" if all Americans
are required to get coverage.
"The offer here is to transition
away from risk rating, which is
one of the things that makes life
hell for real people," said health

economist Len Nichols of the
New America Foundation public
policy center. "They have never
in their history offered to give up
risk rating."
Insurers are trying to head
off the creation of a government
insurance plan that would com-
pete with them, something that
liberals and many Democrats
are pressing for. To try to win
political support, the industry
has already made a number of
concessions. Last year, for exam-
ple, insurers offered to end the
practice of denying coverage to
sick people. They also said they
would support a national goal of
restraining cost increases.
The latest offer goes beyond
that.
Insurance companies now
charge very high premiums to
people who are tryingto purchase
coverage as individuals and have a
history of medical problems, such
as diabetes or skin cancer. Even if
such a person is offered coverage,
that individual is often unable to
afford the high premiums. About
7 percent of Americans buy their
coverage as individuals, while
more than 60 percent have job-
based insurance.

"This changes everything,"
said Karen Ignagni, president
of America's Health Insurance
Plans, the leading trade group.
"When you have everyone in
the system, and you can bring
(financial) assistance to working
families, then you can move away
health status rating."
The companies leftthemselves
several outs, however. The letter
said they would still charge dif-
ferent premiums based on such
factors as age, place of residence,
family size and benefits pack-
age.
And importantly, the industry
did not extend to small business-
es their offer to stop charging
the sick higher premiums. Small
employers who offer coverage
can see their premiums zoom up
from one year to the next, even if
just one worker or family mem-
ber gets seriously ill.
Ignagni said the industry is
working on separate proposals
for that problem.
"We are in the process of talk-
ing with small business folks
across the country," she said. "We
are well on the way to proposing
a series of strategies that could be
implemented for them."

Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, left, looks on as Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben Bernanke testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington.
Decrying AG
top offi'ecials ask
for -more control

Israel's Labor Party leader Ehud Barak gestures, during a meeting of the party's central committee in Tel Aviv.
Labor Party votes to join
new Israeli government

Geithner, Bernanke
call for increased
oversight of U.S.
financial companies
WASHINGTON (AP) - Point-
ing with dismay to the AIG deba-
cle, the nation's top economic
Sofficials argued yesterday- for.
unprecedented powers to regulate
and even take over financial goli-
aths whose collapse could imperil
the entire economy. President
Barack Obama agreed and said he
hoped "it doesn't take too long to
convince Congress."
Treasury Secretary Timothy
Geithner and Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben Bernanke, in a
rare joint appearance before a
House committee, said the messy
federal intervention into Ameri-
can International Group, an
insurance giant, demonstrated
a need to regulate complex non-
bank financial institutions just
as banks are now regulated by
the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.
"AIG highlights broad failures
of our financial system," Geithner
told the House Financial Services
Committee. "We must ensure that
our countrynever faces this situa-
tion again."
But the two appeared divided
over where the authority should

reside. Geithner suggested his
Treasury Department's powers
be expanded. Bernanke was non-
committal, even suggesting the
FDIC.
Both officials sought to channel
the widespread public outrage over
the millions of dollars AIG spent
in post-bailout bonuses into sup-
port for regulatory overhaul. Gei-
thner was expected to lay out more
details on the administration's plan
Thursday when he appears again
before the committee.
Democrats in the Senate say
the administration wants the
proposal on taking over non-
banks to move separately from
the larger financial industry reg-
ulatory bill, to get it going more
quickly.
At the White House, Obama
told reporters, "We are already
hard at work in putting forward
a detailed proposal. We will work
in consultation with members
of Congress. That will be just
one phase of a broader regula-
tory framework that we're going
to have to put in place to prevent
these kinds of crises from hap-
pening again."
Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass.,
the committee chairman, said
that "when nonbank major finan-
cial institutions need to be put
out of their misery, we need to
give somebody the authority to
do what the FDIC can do with
banks."

Dec
680
ro

-ision passed by a
-507 vote, makes
om for broader
government

JERUSALEM (AP) - Israel's
Labor Party voted yesterday to
join the incoming government
of Benjamin Netanyahu, lending
a moderate voice to a coalition
dominated by hard liners and eas-
ing concerns of a head-on con-
frontation with Washington over
Mideast peacemaking.
Chants of "Disgrace! Dis-
grace!" echoed through the
convention hall after Defense
Minister Ehud Barak pushed
through the proposal despite
angry opposition from party
activists who feared Labor would
give only a superficial gloss to a
government little interested in
movingtoward peace.
Labor's move gives Netanya-
hu's coalition a majority of 66 in
the 120-seat parliament.
Labor's decision, by a 680-
507 vote, paves the way for a
broader government than the
narrow and hawkish one Netan-
yahu would otherwise have
had to settle for, increasing his
chances of gaining international
acceptance.
Barak was set to remain
defense minister, a key position
in the new Cabinet, that could
allow Labor to promote peace
efforts with the Palestinians.
On the other hand, the
expected appointment of Avig-
dor Lieberman as foreign min-
ister could overshadow Barak's
input. Lieberman is widely per-
ceived as a racist because of his
demands that Israel's minority
Arabs take a loyalty oath or for-
feit their citizenship.
Yesterday, Jewish extremists
marched through the north-
ern Israeli-Arab town of Umm
el-Fahm, demanding residents
show loyalty to Israel and set-
ting off stone-throwing protests
by Arab youths that police dis-

persed with stun grenades and
tear gas. No serious injuries were
reported, butresidents denounced
the march on one of Israel's larg-
est Arab communities.
In Israel, the prime minister
sets the tone for his government,
and Netanyahu remains deeply
skeptical about negotiations with
the Palestinians. The past year of
U.S.-backed talks have produced
no discernible results, because
the leadership of both sides
appeared too weak to make the
necessary concessions on vital
issues like borders, refugees and
settlements.

Netanyahu claims the Palestin-
ians are not ready for statehood
and suggests economic develop-
ment instead. The Palestinians
reject that and have received the
backing of Secretary of State Hil-
lary Rodham Clinton. She empha-
sized several times during a visit
here this month that the Obama
administration's goal is creation
of a Palestinian state that would
live in peace next to Israel.
Yesterday's contentious vote
drove a wedge through Barak's
Labor party, opening the way for
a possible split - if not now, then
in the future.

GR 1iSAT MT TnO AT Only Kaplan Offers: Kaplan's programs
The MostPersonalized Prep go virtual! GMAT prep
Unmatched Expertise is now available Live
GuaranteedResults Otline.
Visitkaptestcom/I5orebate
or cl1-00KAP-TEST
PREER O OE


4A - Wednesday, March 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ANGELA AT AHCHIH@UMICH.EDU

74L e fittc4t'6rga n .+ai[

ANGELA CHIH

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
FR 'M THEDlY
Opening the door
Diverse viewpoints have value in the academic world
Y ou may remember the Patriot Act - President George
W. Bush's overzealous, freedom-curtailing response to
national security threats. The act resulted in many prom-
inent intellectual voices being kept out of the country based solely
on their personal ideologies. But last Wednesday, in a letter to the
Obama administration, the American Civil Liberties Union joined
with other civil rights and free speech groups to protest these
McCarthy-esque ideological-exclusion policies left over from the
Bush administration. It's imperative that the Obama administra-
tion overturns this prejudiced protocol in favor of promoting tol-
erance, academic freedom and diversity.

Fun, fearless and flawed

Ideological-exclusion policies were
authorized as part of the Patriot Act under
the Bush administration in 2001 to pre-
vent the immigration of people with cer-
tain ideological values. The logic behind
the policy is that these people have beliefs
that make them dangerous. But in prac-
tice, prominent intellectuals seeking to
visit American universities and confer-
ences have been turned away at the border
for no good reason. Last Wednesday, doz-
ens of organizations, including the ACLU,
the Center for Campus Free Speech and
the National Education Association, sent
a letter to administration officials detail-
ing their opposition to these policies. The
ACLU's letter also requests a re-evaluation
of cases already decided under this poli-
cy, including one scheduled for court this
week.
Tariq Ramadan, a Swiss intellectual
who is Muslim, was invited to speak at
the University of Notre Dame but was
denied-entrance to the United States in
2004. Adam Habib, a South African politi-
cal critic, was also denied a visa in 2007.
If the only difference between citizens and
intellectuals who have been turned away is
that one holds an American passport and
the other does not, this standard is clearly
wrong. In the name of academic freedom,
these intellectuals must be allowed to enter
the nation, or we won't be able to benefit
from their intelligence, insights and, yes,
criticism.
This sort of isolationist behavior is detri-

mental to society. To increase understand-
ing of different cultures, the government
has to lead the way in fostering open
debate. Listening to and accepting criti-
cism from people with different beliefs is
the only way to increase our understand-
ing of others. By censoring these views,
the government effectively discriminates
against those with different beliefs, add-
ing fuel to the fires of extremism - which
actually can be dangerous. Closing our
borders to diversity only increases igno-
rance and fear.
It's the role of universities to provide
students with access to ideological per-
spectives that they might not otherwise
encounter. This is an impossible mission
to fulfill if the government so strictly
screen applicants to enter the U.S. based
solely on ideology. In order to create
students who are truly well rounded,
universities' right to sponsor controver-
sial speakers and teachers must not be
infringed so drastically.
Not everyone who criticizes America is
a danger to our nation. The Bush admin-
istration's assumption that everyone who
criticizes America is dangerous was clum-
sy and offensive - and Obama must revive
America's international image by discard-
ing this discriminatory practice. For eight
years America's borders have been closed
and America has suffered. It's time to open
our borders and our eyes to the rest of the
world, including those who challenge our
views.

Cosmopolitan's continued pop-
ularity in the modern age as
a "woman's magazine" has
long mystified me.
Despite the gener-
alized testimonies
of douchebaggy
pick-up-artists,
women are an
extremely varied
group of people -
shocking, I know,
especially consid- EILEEN
ering we comprise
half the freaking STAHL
planet. So until
recently, I was
completely clueless as to what univer-
sal womanly trait Cosmo's marketing
team could be cashing in on. After
some careful thought, I've realized
that Cosmo could be craftier than it
looks. Rather than a superficial love
of shoes, the magazine may actually
be catering to a deep-seated biologi-
cal and emotional urge among women
that even I subscribe to. The thing is,
Cosmo doesn't handle this in the most
stellar way.
I should mention my legendary
love-hate relationship with Cosmo. I
eagerly devour each new issue so that
I can rant about how it isn't fit to be
used for kindling. My main beef with
Cosmo is that it claims to be for fun,
fearless, independent women and yet
devotes a huge amount of space (sev-
eral feature articles and an entire
section called the "Man Manual")
to the capture and keeping of men.
The number of techniques devoted to
"man snaring" is depressingly ridic-
ulous, offering advice ranging from
the decent (don't sleep with him on
the first date) to the cringe-worthy (if
you want him to call you back, always
wear high heels) I can't imagine how
a Cosmo Girl can be fearless when
she's constantly analyzing her boy-
friend's "hand holding technique."
So I was very surprised to find
myself agreeing with the majority
of an April 2009 article "The 50 Best
Relationship Tips Ever." Some of them

were fairly obvious but nonetheless
true, like number 24, which pointed
out that men don't have a psychic
mind-reading mechanism to know
what you want for your birthday.
Others were more poignant, such as
"deliver an ultimatum to geta commit-
ment only if you're prepared to walk
away." I thumbed through the rest of
the magazine, as well as a few back
issues I've kept in order to write this
very column, and realized the articles
I could get behind were all devoted to
relationships, not dating.
It was then I realized that Cosmo's
boy craziness is marketed to the
"female" desire for a healthy rela-
tionship. There is a small but vocal
group among feminists that claim
this yearning is artificial and wrong,
and that the only women who sub-
scribe to it have been duped by the
conniving minds of patriarchy. Actu-
ally, it's quite real and has its basis in
evolutionary biology. Since women
carry and nourish a baby, finding a
man to protect her while in this vul-
nerable state meant the difference
between life and death for a woman
and her offspring. Men, on the other
hand, could take the "quantity over
quality" approach.
Of course, that raises the point that
there's also an "evolutionary basis"
for your boyfriend to impregnate the
entire cheerleading team, so let me
stress that evolutionary biology just
explains why we think about rela-
tionships more than men, not that
we're the only ones who want them.
Actually, I'm of the opinion that most
emotionally mature adults will ben-
efit from spending their lives with
someone else. Having a good partner
in life means more than just compan-
ionship or having a live-in pickle jar-
opener. Another humanbeingsharing
your life means that you will always
have someone who offers you unique
insight on your shared experiences,
providing a fantastic opportunity
for new perspectives and personal
growth. Those who enjoy such a
beautiful connection tend to con-

sider themselves lucky, and not just
women in relationships with men. In
fact, when you take homosexual rela-
tionships into account, there doesn't
have to be male involvement at all.
My love-hate
relationship with
Cosmo magazine.
So I'm fine with Cosmo wanting to
help ladies maintain their. relation-
ships. What I have a problem with is
their apparent obsession with find-
ing a man right now, which perme-
ates the magazine so much that even
the "Single Girl's Bible" usually fea-
tures some how-to-land-a-dateable-
guy advice. While relationships are
lovely, it obviously isn't healthy to
want to get into them like your life
depends on it. Seeing as most rela-
tionships end in failure, people who
are only happy when they're dating
can count on being miserable a lot.
Plus, if you're not comfortable with
the person you are when you're sin-
gle, when you do get into a relation-
ship you won't exactly offer the other
person a lot of growth opportunities.
I dated a guy at a similar point in
my life, and all I could do was glibly
agree with every (often questionable)
point he made.
I maintain that Cosmo has a lot of
room for improvement, both in terms
of its man craziness and its diet pill
advertisements every ten pages. But
perhaps because tm now dating
someone wonderful myself, I realize
that women shouldn't feel ashamed
for wanting advice on making their
relationship a success, and Cosmo
is sometimes good at offering that.
Now if they'd only sort through their
dependency issues.
- Eileen Stahl can be reached
at efstahl@umich.edu.

6
6

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina,
Ben Caleca, Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman,
Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman,
Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
L ET TE T E TSEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Columnist's film criticism Daily fails to properly cover
should be based on logic women's gymnastics win

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus, the Daily would
like students to voice their opinions on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU

0

TO THE DAILY:
Upon picking up Tuesday's copy of the Daily, I
was disappointed to see yet another half-thought-
outfilmcriticismbyBlakeGoble (Playingfor keeps,
03/24/2009). What irritated me was not so much
the list of films but rather his arrogance and dis-
respect for his readers. In the article, he names
the best sports films ever made. He bases these
claims on four rules which are seemingly picked
at random: "No Kevin Costner films. No Boxing
films..." He offers no reason for dismissing sports
classics like "Field of Dreams", "Million Dollar
Baby" or "Raging Bull." Was he merely trying to
be a contrarian? Not only is his list illogical, but
he flaunts his unrivaled arrogance: "Don't like
the rules? Tough. I don't have to justify them."
Apparently, the Daily's film criticism has
shrunken to the level of two middle school kids
arguing on the back of a bus while on their way
to school. I can hardly fault Mr. Goble for having
personal tastes, but as a film critic, his articles
should have some sort of coherency and govern-
ing logic. Examining the work of any good film
critic, one will discover this logic. When a critic
provides no rational for their judgements, they
become merely a snob. And that's the last thing
I want to read.
Taylor Stanton
Music junior

TO THE DAILY:
I was disappointed to open my copy of the
Daily on Monday morning to find no mention
of the 17th Big Ten Championship title won by
the women's gymnastics team. Under the lead-
ership of coach Bev Plocki, this team has won
the last three conference titles.
With much of the team starting their sea-
son recovering from surgery, the Wolverines
entered the competition this past weekend in
Champaign as the underdogs. But the entire
team stepped up to score a season-best 197.075
when they needed it most.
This victory was highlighted by individual
wins from Trish Wilson, who scored a 9.95
on the uneven bars, and Kylee Botterman,
who scored a 9.95 on floor and came in 2nd all
around.
Both Wilson and Botterman returned this
season from major injuries. Yet there was no
mention of these feats anywhere to be found in
the Daily.
These girls deserve to be recognized for
their incredible determination and for refusing
to ever change their goals. So I send them my
highest congratulations - and the Daily ought
to be ashamed that it didn't beat meto it.
Scott Bregman
LSA senior

MSA CAMPUS SAFETY COMMISSION VIEWC
Lobby for car
one of the most prominent complaints from the stu-
dent body in recent years has been the lack of action
about poor street lighting in some off-campus neighbor-
hoods. Although there haven't been many visible results
to date, the Michigan Student Assembly has been working
diligently on the issue for months. We are optimistic that
we will all begin to see brighter streets by the end of this
semester.
It has been a difficult problem to fix, due in part to both
a lack of funding in the city budget and the inherent dif-
ficulties with navigating the city bureaucracy. Through
our efforts, we are close to finalizing the installation of
additional city streetlights in the neighborhood south of
Hill Street.
These lights will reach some of the darkest areas, such
as the triangle intersection of East University, Oakland
and Tappan streets.
While the new city lights will undoubtedly make the
streets safer, the MSA Campus Safety Commission is
committed to doing much more to ensure that students
have a safe way to walk home every night. Doing so will
require help from all of you.
The MSA CSC has launched a project to ensure that
every off-campus house and apartment building is
equipped with an automatic porch light that turns on by
itself at night and off in the morning. These lights will act
as a deterrent against home invasions, especially during
breaks when many houses would ordinarily be completely
dark.
Additionally, these lights will contribute to making the
streets brighter and safer. Imagine how much of a differ-
ence would be made by installing lights in the front of
each house.
After securing the funds to provide property owners

npus lighting
and management companies with the light sensors at no
cost, the MSA CSC contacted a number of them through
the mail to ask for support in our efforts. A meeting in the
fall with a large contingent of local landlords and prop-
erty managers regarding the lighting issue encouraged
MSA's belief that we would get a sizable buy-in for this
project.
Sadly, this was not the case. It has now been over a
month since we sent letters asking for participation and
we have only received one response, albeit a very positive
one.
Dan of Dan's Houses has committed to installing the
sensors on nearly 75 properties located in off-campus
neighborhoods.
So we are reaching out to students to ask for their help.
We now need you to lobby your landlords and manage-
ment companies to participate in this project. We need
you to call, e-mail or visit your landlords to voice your
concerns about dark streets and to tell them that you want
an automatic porch light from MSA.
Ensure landlords that the cost to them is nearly noth-
ing - we provide the sensor for free and your landlord
puts it on an existing socket and bulb. All landlords are
required to do is send an e-mail to campussafety@umich.
edu and the sensors will be ordered and delivered to them
as quickly as possible.
Please take one minute out of your day to reach out
to your landlord so that we can truly take a step toward
making the night bright.
Students with questions about this project can e-mail
the MSA CSC at campussafety@umich.edu.
This viewpoint was submitted on behalf of
the MSA Campus Safety Commission.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 25, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 25, 2009 - 5A

Double the thrills

Mastodon flirts
with extinction
By JACK PORTER riff with sliding power chords,
DailyArts Writer recalling genre mainstays like
Megadeth. Vocalist Troy Sanders's
Mastodon has been crushing frenzied howling is another throw-
skulls 'and shattering eardrums back to the early days of thrash,
since 1999 with but he updates that sound with a
its forward- ** keen sense of melody, and never
thinking and overpowers or sours the track. The
genre-bending jA1Jodon bridge solo, boasting squealing
metal, which pinch harmonics and blazing trills,
incorporates Crack the Skye is just icing on the cake.
elements from Reprise "Divinations," however, is the
thrash, death and exception on an otherwise prog-
"stoner" metal while using clean, obsessed record. "The Czar," a
bellowing vocals. The band has nine-minute monolith, is more
gained a startlingly wide audience, typical of the collection. Employ-
enticing even stray metal-phobic ing bright, shimmering guitar
listeners to sample its sounds. But distortion, organs, keyboards and
it's likely that Mastodon's latest unusual Eastern scales, Mastodon
release, Crack the Skye, will alien- imbues the song with mystery and
ate a large portion of the band's menace. Somewhat awkwardly,
head-banging loyalists. the slow-burn intro explodes into
On the album, the band has radi- a metal attack. But what cheapens
cally changed its musical approach, the track is its reliance on generic
though not necessarily for the bet-
ter. Part of the appeal of what will
inevitably be remembered as "the
old Mastodon" (a la Metallica) was An album that
the band's sophisticated blend of
tight songwriting, technical prow- feels more
ess and thrash intensity. The "new"
Mastodon has decided to throw like pastiche
about two thirds of that appeal
right out the window. Crack the than progress.
Skye is a long, challenging, slowly
paced album that indulges Mast-
odon's prog proclivities, sometimes
at the expense of visceral thrills '84s Metallica-style riffs (the usual
and good sense. crutch for creatively challenged
"Oblivion" opens the album with genre grunts). The aimless anti-
a maelstrom of frenetic tom fills climax-of-an-ending leaves a bitter
and chaotic churning guitars, giv- taste in the ear and mouth as well.
ing way to a grinding yet melodic After "Czar," the band seems
verse riff that sputters ahead like to have thoroughly rifled through
a demonic locomotive. The thor- its bag of tricks, and the rest of the
oughly old-school opening surges albumjust fizzles. While Mastodon's
with a winning, muscular vitality. new sound is intriguing at first, it
But the sludgy chorus riffs and lazy loses its mystique - even during
vocal drawl tinge the song with an the first listen. Crack the Skye feels
alt-rock anonymity, putting a seri- more like pastiche than progress; it
ous damper on the whole affair. becomes more interestingto pickout
The, next track, "Diyinations,",the band's influences than toappre-
is a better prospect for traditional ciate the album on its own terms.
metal-heads, with its neck-snap- Mastodon will need to rebound with
ping pace and lean song structure. more immediate, gripping material
Its verses ride on a seesaw thrash to keep hold ofis fans.

Opposite Clive Owen, Julia Roberts makes
'Duplicity' an unlikely success
By Kavi Pandey I Daily Arts Writer

In a world where most films
middlingly muddle within a single
genre, "Duplic-
ity" achieves a
near-impossible * *
feat: It manages
to be a sweet Duplicity
romantic com-
edy, an intelli- AtQuality16
gent crime-caper and Showcase
and an eye- Universal
opening social
commentary all at the same time.
This inspired genre-balancing,
combined with exceptional per-
formances, makes "Duplicity" a
tremendously entertaining film.
The movie begins with MI6
agent Ray Koval (Clive Owen,
"The International") hooking up
with a woman named Claire Sten-
wick (Julia Roberts) in Dubai.
Stewick turns out to be a CIA.
agent whose mission was to sleep
with Koval and steal state secrets
from him. Years later, the two
find themselves working as spies

for rival pharmaceutical and cos-
metic corporations led by Tom
Wilkinson ("Valkyrie") and Paul
Giamatti ("Sideways"). Koval and
Stenwick end up working togeth-
er, albeit grudgingly, to con a very
large payload out of their respec-
tive bosses. Twists come early and
often, though, and what's happen-
ing on the surface is usually quite
different than the reality.
With "Duplicity," Julia Roberts
has finally emerged from hiber-
nation and reclaimed her throne
as a leading lady in Hollywood.
She exudes the same combination
of beauty, wit and toughness that
defined her stardom in "Pretty
Woman" and "Erin Brockovich."
It's nice to have her back, and
she more than matches the gruff,
forceful performance of co-star
Clive Owen.
Anyone who has seen the
"Extras" series finale knows how
maddeningly hilarious Owen can
be (if you haven't, watch it now).

In "Duplicity," Owen shows off
his comedic talents, swapping his
trademark scowl for a mischievous
grin that rivals Roberts's famous
smile. Owen is sure to bring audi-
ences to tears with his attempt at
a slow Southern drawl (which is
part of a disguise he uses to seduce
a woman). It's a pleasant surprise
to see his character as the sensitive
foil to Roberts's more emotionally
detached role. Koval is concerned
with love and relationships, while
Stenwick always seems to be
focused on her work.
Giamatti and Wilkinson also
stand out among a very solid
supporting cast. Giamatti is the
embodiment of the greedy CEO -
a sleazy, hot-tempered man who
only wants to make money and
destroy the competition. In con-
trast, Wilkinson plays a sage-like
businessman with ruthless capa-
bilities. The peak of his career
is long gone and he is becoming
increasingly disillusioned by the
treachery and dishonesty that has
invaded his trade. Their feud is
showcased during a slow-motion
old-man fight that is quite possi-
bly the funniest opening-credits

sequence in cinematic history.
From their line of work, Koval
and Stenwick have learned to trust
nobody, so they constantly question
each other's motives and almost
derail their scheme at several key
moments. That's where "Duplic-
ity" subtly begins its social inspec-
tion, satirizing the deception and
betrayal that plague global busi-
ness. It's both cringe-worthy and
comical to see the corporations in
this movie spend millions of dollars
protecting formulas of skin lotions
and hair-care products from the
competition.
After scoring with "Michael
Clayton," writer and director Tony
Gilroy adds another significant
accomplishment to his resume
with "Duplicity." He has brought
down the house once again with
sly dialogues, fleshed-out charac-
ters and a unique framing struc-
ture that is too cool to be spoiled.
It's disappointing to see such a
terrific film being dumped on a
crowded weekend in March. Even,
though "Duplicity" is too light to
turn heads during the awards sea-
son, it's a remarkably good time at
the cinema.

The 47th AAFF ABC is no better with 'Ted'

goes global on
opening night

By BLAKE GOBLE
Daily Arts Writer
Waiting in line for the night's fes-
tivities, one couldn't help but soak in
the scene. Ahab beards and intricate
scarves were everywhere. Schakolad
flowers were devoured with complimen-
tary wine and beer from Arbor Brewing
Company. Salsa music competed with
an organ player, creating a groovy vibe.
Seva's vegetarian fare met harmoniously
with Totoro's delicious pork and chick-
en. And Ann Arbor's middle-aged literati
got to mingle with teenage freaks to rap
about how cool it is that Bruce Conner is
gonna show up later this week.
All these happenings at the Michigan
Theater could only mean one thing: The
47th Ann Arbor Film Festival opened
Sights, sounds and
sensational food.
last night and, as always, it was a hell of
an event. The opening-night gala recep-
tion was a splendid affair, complete with
all the amenities of a posh and proper
function. At 47 years old, this event felt
as fresh as ever.
The night was like a grand three
course meal. First was the gala, where
Ann Arbor's tastiest treats met with its
most artistically inclined individuals.
Second, the main theater opened and
several speeches ushered in the event.
Finally, opening-night screening selec-
tions brought the affair to an end.
The opening gala was excellent.
The scene was set for a good time and
a geography theme was nicely present
in the design. Google Maps slide shows
went perfectly with inflatable globes
in the Theater lobby. Think geography
class, but cooler. Like Festival Executive
Director Donald Harrison said, this year
was a "new world of indie cinema."

Sights, sounds and sensational food
bombarded the opening crowd. It was
a place to eat sushi during cattle-call
shorts without feeling awkward. The
seemingly smaller number of people
than last year's opening didn't matter.
The word was excitement, and everyone
knew it.
Showcasing this year's international
theme, the Festival's opening speeches
were candid and captivating. Russ Col-
lins, executive director of the Michigan
Theater, graciously welcomed everyone
to the event. Ann Arbor Mayor John
Hieftje did aglobal rollcallwith the audi-
ence. Festival Artistic Director Christen
McArdle shared her excitement, detail-
ing what's happening in this year's pro-
gram. And Donald Harrison emceed the
whole opening, reminding everyone to
take notice of the geography motifs but,
above all, to have a good time.
But in the end, the screenings were
what everyone was there for. Like a
champagne bottle thrown against a boat,
Thomas Oraschen's "Freude" opened
this year's event with a bang. In-your-
face and out of control (with naked ladies
and gorillas), the short was as wildly
eclectic as those that followed.
Stop-motion animation was used to
perfection in Michael Langen's "Cahlia"
and PES's "Western Spaghetti." "Out of
Print," from Danny Plotnick, was the
most accessible work of hipster dismay
this side of "High Fidelity." Pat Rober-
stun and The Weather Underground
showed up too in "P.R." and "Clear
Glasses," respectively. And the inimi-
table Don Hertzfeldt ended the open-
ing with his outstanding piece, "i am so
proud of you."
But that was only a slice of the open-
ing. And even in itself, the whole opening
was just a sliver of a week's worth of deli-
ciously diverse film. So if last night was
any indicator, the 47th AAFF is going to
be magnificent.
Like the slogan goes, "Welcome to the
new world of independent cinema." A
grand welcome indeed.

By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily Arts Writer
Corporate culture has proven to be a
common (if unexpected) premise for com-
edy in the past decade.
Dozens of television *
shows and movies based
around cubicle dwell- Better
ers have been released to O
receptive audiences, and
dissatisfaction with work Wednesdays
has proven to be univer- at 8:30 p.m.
sally relatable. Mirroring ABC
these plotlines, ABC's
new sitcom "Better off
Ted" tries to provide another Window into
the working world.
"Better off Ted" is an office-centered
satire revolving around Ted (relative
newcomer Jay Harrington), the head of
research and development at a monolithic
corporation named Viridian Dynamics.
The company, headed by ambitious boss
Veronica (Portia de Rossi, "Arrested Devel-
opment") works on outlandish projects like
weaponized pumpkins and intentionally
uncomfortable office chairs to increase
productivity. The company then attempts
to pawn off these odd items on unsuspect-
ing investors.
"Ted" feels like ABC's attempt to pro-
duce a critically acclaimed comedy in the
WRITE
FOR
FINE What: Six to ei
. . Each Ft
ARTSparticip
Who: Undergn
full tim
E-mail When: Applica
battlebots@
umich.edu for The Center f
an application. center dedicat
public discour5

style of "Arrested Development" or "The
Office," and the show's stylistic choices
make it feel more than a little tired. The
wittily blas6 voiceover, the lack of a laugh
track, the roaming camera - all these
elements have been done better by other
shows. "Ted" even goes so far as to hire
"Arrested Development" alum de Rossi to
portray a character noticeably similar to
the ditzy Lindsay Bluth. The muted color
palette and intro and exit music's cloying-
ly sweet piano tinkling right before and
after commercial breaks are overly ironic
nods to the 1950s work culture that "Ted"
attempts to ape. All of this window dress-
ing comes off as extremely forced.
The program also suffers from its chop-
py storyline. Several plot elements are
introduced for a brief period of time - for
instance, Viridian Dynamics's decision to
cryogenically freeze research scientist Phil
(Jonathan Slavin, "Race to Witch Moun-
tain) for a year, or the burgeoning romance
between Phil and disgruntled office drone
Linda (Andrea Anders, "Joey") - but are
left unresolved at the end of the episode.
While pilot episodes tend to be less cohesive
than regular episodes, the complete lack of
conclusion left an unacceptably large num-
ber of loose ends. The script feels disjointed
and could benefit from a more focused sense
of humor.
"Ted" is not hopeless, though. Its strong

cast - especially supporting members sci-
entists Lem (Malcolm Barrett, "My Best
Friend's Girl") and Phil - adds some spice
to the lackluster writing. Harrington, as
the titular character, manages to be both
convincing as a high-powered businessman
and down-to-earth enough to sympathize
with. And Portia de Rossi, despite the com-
monalities between this role and her pre-
vious sitcom work, is excellent as always,
providing the funniest performance among
the group. One exception is Ted's daughter
Another 'office'
wannabe.
Rose (relative newcomer Isabella Acres),
who is unnaturally precocious and holds a
more serious tenor than the deadpan humor
shared by rest of the cast.
While nontraditional sitcoms normally
struggle to find an audience, the position
of "Ted" on a major network's primetime
lineup may help it last longer than its com-
petitors. While the show suffers from plot
mishaps and forcedstylistic choices,if"Ted"
is given enough time to find its footing, its
solid premise and strong cast may solidify
its place in the modern sitcom world.

Undergraduate Fellows Program
2009-2010
ght fellowships funded with a $4000 stipend for the 2009-10 academic year.
ellow will carry out an individual project related to ethics in public life, and
ate in twice monthly Fellows meeting and other Center activities and events.
aduates currently enrolled at UM Ann Arbor campus, who will be enrolled
e and in residence for the entire 2009-10 academic year.
tions are due via email to ethics@umich.edu by 5:00pm April 10, 2009.
sor Ethics in Public Life (www.ethics.umich.edu) is an interdisciplinary
ed to the encouragement of teaching, research and creative projects, and
se that promote understanding of the ethical dimensions of our lives, and
especially, the lives we live in common.
Questions? Email ethics@umich.edu



6A - Wednesday, March 25, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

"0
1 BDRM. CONDO 2317 Packard.
VERY clean, new appl, quiet area. Bus
stop out front, pool in rear. $68,000 or
offer. 734-930-0200 or 734-474-0978,
99 FORD RANGER pickup,. 118k
miles, runs excellent, clean
can be seen in U/M stadium lot. $3000
474-0978.
*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call tday....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
Or ren $
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts will buy you FREE
LUNCH ! First 10 new visitors daily,
weekdays 12-3pm. THIS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenlfts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD direct with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as law as $1200.
Not Many Left Act Now!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
frmhEast Quad!!
Vt utifi spaiousquet. Pnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C& IManagement, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directs with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarbrapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood foor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
$$REDUCED RATES$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included!
Hrry....Only 3 left 
734-761-8000
primesh.com

WilsonWhite
I M ANAGEMENT I
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST G0.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
wll waive the a pplication fee and reducen
security deposit to one month's rent
I 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com ,
- - - -- --- - --
Rooms, studios, and 1-to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Fall '09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Offstreet prkg, Indry, water incl.
($1500/mno.). 734.223.7777.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprp.com 769-7025.
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. fan. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car' garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wshr.dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, frnt porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-87081
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Fun. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall 09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site lndry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagemen.com

4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2040;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic cou-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@al.com
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Sume offer hardmod flors and sme
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsnwhitemanagement.com
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsnwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
mu. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only 1 mu. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths.
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May '09 to August '09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
a Studio & 1
S - Bdru. Units
Tower Plaza Cundminium
Qviet&scurvHtghnse-One k>v mamps
Qa.1r1 a Tosic
734-663-1530
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attentiorn please
Campus Management, Inc. invites youu
to visit www.CampusMgt.com. the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houss and apartments very close to
central c pus. Lots f 2 bedroom
aps. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to un-
dreds of people eac week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer ineluded. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see.
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon_travislsbglobal.net
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurmished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. SEPT. '09, $4,300, large 6
bedroom, 3 bath. house very close to
Diag Central air, laundry, 4 nearby
parking spots, hdwd. floors, large bed-
rooms. michaelbielby nlcomcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL.

Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CannoManaeement.com

FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water mcl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
I111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng(e/comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hover
1320 5. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888
the
Oare d a30 o
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.nel
or visit us at

2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great loCation,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean,.quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
su blet
0 7
FREE SUBLET FINDER.studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
GREAT SUMMER SUBLET; 710
Catherine St. $350/mo. 269-569-2707.
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu

0'

0

Ho

1700 Geddes Ave.
* PROFESSIONAL EDITOR AVAIL-
ABLE for alt lengths student papers. U-
M exp. Contact kae.editing@gmail.com
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St. SWEETS DELIVERED
(734) 663-8989 Six days a week- To order visit
www.oldtownrealty.net home.comeast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
uses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!! THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
8 Bedroom House 5rganization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
428 amihn P. $4400 996-0566 or mriteun@isern.net,
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses . *he lpW ed
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease) !!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
4 Bedroom Houses training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995 ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ng a $500.00 gift card in a stare ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
in chice with every signed tease hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
nf these available hauses!! in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinbncial.com
BEDROOM AVAILABLE In-
n a quaint residential neighbor-
the Old West Side of Ann Ar- DANCE INSTRUCTORS NEEDED
alconies, central .AC, laundry. for Fall 2009. Ballet/Tap/Jazz/Mod-
ur at en/Lyrical/Hip hop. All ages, all lev-
martfloorplan.com/mi/v280580 els. Must have own vehicle. 734-429-
our website at 5522. dancesteps@comcast.net
ichcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
4-662-5500. EHO. EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
I AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm. being a mystery shopper. No experi-
$650 per month. 734-665-8825. ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.

Offer
of you
ONE I
cated in
hood in
bar Br
Heat am
torial to
www.sr
or visitc
www.m
alty, 73'
ROOM
house. I

RELEASE DATE-Wednesday, March 25, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Rectangular 40 Tennyson's 58 Prefix with sol
1 Blue or brown game piece twilight 59 Blueprint
follower 5 Holy animal? 41 Jacques of "Man 61 Slam dunk site
5 Rubik creation 6 Mile ormmeter Oncle" 62 Govern, or word
9 Dalmatian marks 7 Eight bits 44 22.5 deg. that can follow
14 City north of 8 Breathe out 46 Old French the first word of
Carson City 9 MA and PA capital? the four longest
15 Jet-black gem 10 School play prop 49 Put in stitches puzzle answers
16 It's prohibited 11 Philharmonic 50 Recognition 63 Rehab
17 Valley girl's "Ick!" reed 51 New Yorktribe admission
20 Senator Hatch 12 Kitlthing 54 Grows up 65 When the French
21 Wagon pullers 13 Disman maker 55 Electrical unit fry?
22 Hard to hold 18 Foe 56 Hip bones 66 Expert ending?
23 Donizetti aria 19 Yves's girlfriend ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
"Regnava __ 24 Table section
silenzio" 26 Bankfeature H A M S APART OM IT
25 Storyteller 27 "They'll Do It I D O L R O M E O R I C A
27 Clich6framed Every Time" C o L o R A D O B 0 U L D E R
above manypa ca nistJimmy E TA U T P OST S
hearth 28 Star Waru lenteru
33 Finance major's 29 Hard-to-find guy M I C H I G A N F L I N T
deg. .ofkids'books E M U L O U F E N
35 When repeated 30 "Love Story" W A L L E N D A S U I
twice, "etlcetera" costar G E O R G I A P L A I N S
36 Regal home 31 Land where E S P S U I T C A S E
37 Laicework Moss died P A T M A N N EW
piece 32GoofnsAL BAMAMOB1LE
39 Fish order 33 Internet opinion O S S O B U C O O O M
42 Eye drop piece
43 Sweater 342008Libertarian N E B R A S K A L I N C 0 L N
synthetic presidential EGAD E L T O N C U B A
45 Unheeding candidate LADY RESTS E S S E
47 "Washboard" 38 Elvis classic xwordeditor@aol.com 0324/09
mucles 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
48 Spaceflight
management 14 5 15
center
52 Proximate 17 19
53 007 creator
Fleming 20 21 22
54 Eager us 24 2a 2
57 Realize
60 Jacket typeworn n23 2 3 S1 32
byseveral Bond
64 Yellow-skinned
apple 37 3 39 4 41 2
67 "Acat must have 4 45 4 47
three different
names" poet in as o 51
e8 Savingschoices
69 Once sparingly 52 5
70 Play area? 5 s 7 5 9 0 51 62 63
71 Voice quality
72 Impressionist
DOWN 57ea9
1 Asa rel
2 Century unit 7c 71 72
3 Caltech sr's
goal, often ny Jack McInturff0=/5f09
(c)2009 Tribune Media services, Inc.

Deadline for line ad is11:;
Rates: $4.30 per linefo
additional cOnsecutive is
contact our staff for deta
ads are placed in person
busness ads only) " Al a
have been established "
Discover, cash, or check
of our Account Executivv
I day

30am one business day prior to publication. Classification:
010 LostiFound
r the first issue and $2.15 per lne for each 020 - For Sale
sue, " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
ls + Students may receive a 25% discount when 030 - Automotive
with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040-Corputers
s must be prepid unless prior blng privileges 045 Tchnoogy
We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, 0 Fsrrilr
" For Classified Display adverising, please call one 050 -Furniture
Ja 060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
19,35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
eviations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The lability of
ement for any reason, or for publishing incorrectadsin a specified issue 123 - Websites
sequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125 - Music
rtisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
en rat es are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a 130 - Roommates
id in full by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
publication deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
e subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisements for 150 - Personal
ale. TMD r ves the right to request samples of mail order items prior t 160- Pets

0
0
6
6

2 lines 8.6C
3lines 12
4lines 17..z
Ptlicies:
Abbreviations: Only
TMD for failure to pub
shall be limited to publi:
mi" ho ro~nneihp r

idard abbr
in advertis
ng in a sub
:cfir ar "v

Rates: Allc
consecutive
Advertisersr
been publis
resale of ticl

rate if requested and pa
may cancel an ad before
hed. Refusal: All ads ar
kets at more than face v


All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 25, 2009 - 7A

INMATE EXPRESSIONS

Power Down to
reduce energy
use on campus

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Ann Arbor resident Ken Anbender goes through artwork at the Fourteenth Annual Exhibition of Art by Michigan Prisoners held at the Duderstadt Center Gallery. The
show will be running until April 8 and is meant to bring attention to the abilities of those in the state's prisons. It highlights more than 300 works of art by over 200 artists.

BUSINESS ETHICS
From Page 1A
low said an overall shift in attitude
is underway, as business schools
across the country receive criti-
cism because of the current crisis.
"I don't think the financial crisis
can be blamed on business schools,"
Suslowsaid. "Butwe can and should
work harder to understand how
best to integrate an understanding
of good leadership into the business
school experience."
While new courses have not
been formed, professors in the
school are using the economy as
HOSPITAL
From Page 1A
versity Health System, reported
at February's Board of Regents
meeting that through community
health programs and services and
research costs in excess of funding,
UMHS contributed a total commu-
nity benefit of $323 million in the
2008 fiscal year.
"It is increasingly difficult in
this economic environment to pro-
vide the level of benefit to the com-
munity that it needs," Strong said
MUSEUM MINOR
From Page 1A
man said.
CorecourseswillincludeMUSE-
UMS 301, which will address the
roles of public museums in soci-
ety and provide an introduction
to the field of museum studies,
and MUSEUMS 401, which will
explore the depiction of racial, eth-
nic, gender and religious issues in
MSA
From Page 1A
Union was the traditional "out-
and-in" meeting - when newly
elected representatives officially
. take their seats. At the end of the
meeting, outgoing seniors and cur-
rent executives reflected on their
time in MSA.
WEATHERIZATION
From Page lA
has to be less than 200 percent of
the federal poverty guidelines.
Based on these regulations, the
annual income of a family of four
would have to be less than $44,100
to qualify for low-income housing
benefits.
Kraft estimated that about
$4,500 will be spent on each home
that qualifies, but that can vary
depending on the state of each
house's insulation.
"Some homes will be relative-
ly new, and won't need as much
work," he said.
Earlier this year, Ann Arbor
City Council members listed the
weatherization of low-income
housing as one of their top priori-
ties if the city was to receive stim-
ulus funding.
Councilmember Leigh Greden

a teaching opportunity, according
to Suslow. She said professors gear
their curricula to the issues facing
the business world today, which
includes ethical decisions in the
workplace.
Mario Macis, an assistant pro-
fessor in Business, Economics and
Public Policy, took the current
economic state into account in the
creation of his curriculum this
semester.
"Certainly the fact that we are
in an economic downturn affected
my choice of topics," Macis said.
Macis is currently teaching a cur-
riculum based on CEO incentives
and responsible actions in the

workplace.
Decisions made by CEOs in
major corporations, like the
bonuses doled out by executives
at American International Group,
have been cited as a major factor
in the need for government aid as
of late.
Joel Slemrod, an Economics and
Business School professor, said he
often pulls his curriculum from
current events. The economic
difficulties occurring worldwide
have allowed for more opportuni-
ties to discuss recent events in his
classroom, he said.
"We always try to relate the
curriculum with what's going on

now," he said. "The day-to-day
events and the state of the econo-
my are even more prevalent than
they used to be."
Business junior Amanda
Vogelsang, said she sees no signifi-4
cant change in the teaching styles
in her classes, but added that her
instructors have started gear-
ing classroom discussions toward
ethical business decisions in the
future.
"I don't really notice any large
change in the classroom, although
many of my professors have
emphasized the importance of
responsible business practices,"
she said.

In Power Down,
colleges compete
to sign up the most
power savers
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
If all students and faculty at the
University switched their comput-
ers to power-saving modes, they
could conserve as much energy
as removing 4,500 cars from the
road. And this month as part of
the Power Down for the Planet
competition, University officials
are trying to get the campus to do
just that.
The competition, which the
University entered last Mon-
day, pits several colleges against
each other to see which one can
reduce its carbon emissions the
most by setting personal comput-
ers to energy-saving modes. The
U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency's Energy Star program
and the Climate Savers Comput-
ing Initiative are sponsoring the
contest, which runs until April
17.
Bill Wrobleski, director of
Technical Infrastructure Opera-
tions for the University's Admin-
istrative Information Services,
said the program's purpose is to
change the energy consumption
habits of students and faculty at
the University.
"By individuals committing
we're hoping to make some sort
of a widespread impact and also
to educate everybody about the
potential positive effects they can
have," Wrobleski said.
To participate in the com-
petition, students, staff and
faculty must go to www.power-
downfortheplanet.org and pledge
to use the power-saving settings
on their computers. The univer-
sity with the highest percentage
of pledges will win.
By pledging, computer users
agree to set their computers on,
sleep mode when not in use and
turn them off at night.
A student steering committee
of about eight members has been
working to promote environ-
mentally friendly computing and
encourage students to participate
in the competition.
LSA freshman Anne Laverty, a
member of the steering commit-

tee, said she joined the committee
to push students toward taking
small steps to better the environ-
ment.
Laverty said switching com-
puters to a power-saving mode is
"a simple thing everyone can do
that will really just pay off in the
long run."
Power Down for the Planet will
sponsor UMix in the Union April
17. Members from the steering
committee are planning activities
like relay races, which end in par-
ticipants turning off computers
and taking trivia quizzes about
green computing facts.
Since the event will be held on
the last night of the campaign, the
steering committee will collect
the final pledges from students
attending UMix.
Wrobleski said if a large per-
centage of the 80,000 computers
located on campus were regis-
tered in the campaign, the Uni-
versity could "make a big dent in
the power usage," while also sav-
ing some green.
"If we can affect as many stu-
dents as we think, we can save
more than 1.6 billion kilowatt
hours of energy," he said. "That's
$150 million. More importantly,
that's one million tons of reduc-
tion in carbon emissions."
While reducing energy con-
sumption will save the University
money, Wrobleski said cutting
down on energy costs is not the
goal of the campaign.
"What we're doing here is we're
trying to change the behavior
of individuals and departments
across the University," he said.
The competition also involves
a video-making contest in which
students can film a story about
their green computing prac-
tices. The videos will be posted
on YouTube, and students with
winning films will receive priz-
es like laptops, software, cash
and bicycles.
This year's contest is the first
with competitors from universi-
ties like Ohio State, Penn State
and Purdue competing. Wrobleski
saidhehopes itbecomes an annual
event with more universities par-
ticipating each year to cut down
energy consumption throughout
the United States.
"Thisisoneofthosecaseswhere
we thought either we can just try
to tackle this in Ann Arbor, or we
could try to tackle this across the
country," he said.


at the February regents meeting.
"Amidst all of our other demands,
we have significantly expanded
our commitment to community
benefit in recent years."
In response rising costs at Uni-
versity Hospital, officials have had
to implement ahiringfreeze, mainly
in administrative areas, and reduce
overtime and temporary positions.
Despite recent challenges, Levy
said that she expects the federal
government to resume a greater
responsibilityforhealthcare under
the Obama administration.
"I certainly think that the finan-
museum displays.
Students will also be allowed
three elective courses that must
be approved by an academic advi-
sor. The courses must be in one of
three areas - institutions, objects
and collections or society - each of
which relate to the minor itself.
Silvermansaidstudentswillgain
a sense of "museum literacy" from
the minor, learn about the histori-
cal role of museums in society, and
achieve a heightened awareness
During the meeting, the outgo-
ing assembly held its last complete
meeting. Then, a Central Student
Judiciary justice swore in Mah-
anti, an Engineering junior, and
Rorro, an LSA junior.
Shingwani then literally and
figuratively handed over the gavel
to the new president. The new
assemblythen held an entire meet-
ing of its own.
(D-Ward 3) explained that City
Council is hoping to receive fund-
ing for the city's low-income pub-
lic housing. This recent backing
from the stimulus package will
only go to non-public low-income
housing.
However, Greden believes that
some of the county's grant will
benefit the city.
"I believe that some of the
money can be used by the city to
conduct a capital needs assess-
ment of our public housing facili-
ties," Greden said.
Capital needs assessments
enable city officials to learn about
the current status of public low-
income housing.
Congressman John Dingell
(D-Dearborn), who represents
the 15th congressional district of
Michigan that includes Washt-
enaw County, expressed his
approval of the funding for the
county in an e-mail statement.

cial troubles facing hospitals as
a result of what is essentially an
unfunded mandate that they pro-
vide care for the uninsured will
lend impetus to President Obama's
efforts to expand insurance cover-
age, since that is another way to
reduce the burden on hospitals of
uncompensated care," Levy said.
Usually, hospitals receive two
forms of compensation for provid-
ing charity care.
The first is through tax breaks.
Not-for-profit hospitals, of which
most hospitals are, pay lower taxes.
The other method, known as
of different cultures and cultural
assets.
Although the College of Lit-
erature, Science and the Arts will
offer the Museum Studies minor,
students from all across the Uni-
versity may elect to take it.
Before now, Museum Studieswas
agraduate-level concentration.
According to Silverman, stu-
dents interested in curatorial work
at a large museum, like the Detroit
Institute of Arts, need a master's
Mahanti began the "in" meet-
ing by telling the assembly that
MSA would not be run as it has
traditionally been in the past, but
would instead cater directly to
students' needs.
"The upcoming year will not be
business as usual for MSA," Mah-
anti said. "(Rorro) and I have a
very clear vision for what we want
to do."
"I was pleased to support money
for weatherization in the stimu-
lus package, as well as the energy
packages Congress has passed in
recent years," he said. "I have long
supported these funds as a way
to help people make their homes
more energy efficient and thus
more cost effective. Moreover,
weatherization is a key piece of the
climate change puzzle."
Nationally the weatherization
program has historically received
$200 million. The 2009 stimulus
package has added an extra $5
billion.
"As we move forward," Dingell
wrote, "I will continue to express
my strong support for these pro-
grams."
Employment Training and
Community Services is the local
agency that will coordinate and
distribute the funds within the
county. The funds originated in
the U.S. Department of Energy.

disproportionate share payments,
provides higher Medicare reim-
bursements to hospitals that pro-
vide uncompensated care.
However, there is a gap between
treatment costs and the amount
with which these programs reim-
burse the hospital. The hospital
is forced to absorb the difference,
usually at a loss.
Adding to the problem, govern-
ment health care programs are
expanding and not equally com-
pensating hospitals for their cov-
erage, putting further strain on
hospital expenses.
degree or a Ph.D., but that a bache-
lor's degree will usually suffice for
work in smaller museums.


the michiganjdaily
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25- I
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
_________________________ For Thursday, Maruh 26, 20S9
ARIES
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology (March 21 to April 19)
experiment on simple perceptual judg- Today is the only New Moon in your
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min. sign all year. That means it's the perfect
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be time to take a hard look in the mirror and
18+, a native English speaker, and have decide how you can improve your
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #: appearance.
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at TAURUS
nkalaida@med.umich.edu (April 20 to May 20)
Even if you don't think you believe in
anything, you do. This is the perfect day
to get in touch with whatever it'is that
gets you through the night.
GEMINI
At (May 21to June 20)
The New Moon is the best time to
make resolutions. Once a year the New
Moon occurs in the part of your chart
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this related to future dreams and goals.
Summer - Make life long friends. The That's what's happening for you today!
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Dream big!
Shops are looking for seasonal help in CANCER
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Saff; Wait (June 21to July 22)
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous- Today is the perfect day to look at
iog, bonus, and discounted meals avail- yorlfdietningealndece
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304. your life direction i genera mdedecide
w ww.theislandhouse.comn do you really want to accomplish in your
lifetime?
LEO
" = + " =(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Is there any kind of training or further
- .. education that would enrich and enhance
your job or your life in general? Perhaps
travel is what you need?
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
What can you do to clear up loose
T DAVlEL ends connected with red-tape matters
such as insurance, inheritances, wills,
taxes and debt. Choose something.
Book your flight to Europe (Sept.23 to Oct.22)
for the summer during This is the only New Moon opposite
your sign all year. Now is the time to
March, and get your 1st
hostel night free!
STA Travel, Inc.
530 South State St
Ann Arbor Ml 48109
T: (734) 769.2555
UMI@statravel com

think about how to improve your closest
friendships and partnerships.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
What can you do to improve your job,
or how you do yourjob, or your attitude
toward your job? Think of few things
you would like to see happen.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Do you have a good balance between
work and play? If you have children, do
schedule enough playtime with them?
Today's New Moon focuses on this.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 221oJan. 19)
What can you do to improve your rela-
tions with family members or your
home? Write these down, and try to do
them in the near future.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Do not assume others always under-
stand you. Think how often you misun-
derstand people. Work to be as clear as
you can in all your communications.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
What is your attitude toward money?
Our attitude toward things determines
how they manifest in our lives.
YOU BORN TODAY You have a
childlike enthusiasm for life. People
become energized around you.
Nevertheless, you also have a philosoph-
ical detachment to things, which makes
you a shrewd observer of others, often in
a witty way! You take your friendships
seriously, and you enjoy lifelong friends.
This year you'll build or construct some-
thing that is important to you. Your
rewards will soon follow!
Birthdate of: Nancy Pelosi, politician;
Martin Short, actor; Leonard Nimoy,
actor.

WANT TO DESIGN FLASH GRAPHICS
FOR THE DAILY?
E-MAIL GRACA@MICHIGANDAILY.COM


0

8A - Wednesday, March 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TOUGHf

r ') 1
t.
' l ..., ._'.i
1 5r
v''
9 ..- _;. .
i
}
. .,. .. , _ ,xR

On the ice, he's ferocious. With a 6-foot-i, 200-pound frame, he's a dominant physical presence on the blueline, a play-
er who loves to deliver crowd-pleasing hits on opponents. His intensity often sends him to the penalty box at least
once a game.
In the quiet rooms of C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, he's the first to talk to patients, the one who gently asks them
what they're interested in and puts a smile on their faces. He grabs clipboards to organize volunteers and steers teammates, who *
are eager to meet new children, around the hospital to visiting rooms.
Meet the two sides of sophomore defenseman Tristin Llewellyn.
By Nicole Auerbach U Daily Sports Editor

THE ENFORCER

THF NICF C,1Y

ZACHARY MEISNER
Sophomore Tristin Llewellyn delivers a vicious hit. Llewellyn has spent an hour and a half in the penalty box this season.

Beyond delivering hits that echo
off the walls of Yost Ice Arena,
Llewellyn is also known for his
penalty minutes.
Against Nebraska-Omaha on
Feb. 13-14, Llewellyn was a con-
stant fixture in the penalty box. He
accumulated 18 penalty minutes on
the weekend, including a 10-min-
ute misconduct.
The Wolverines are the nation's
third-most penalized team, and
Llewellyn leads them with 90 min-
utes in the box - the next-highest
amount on the team is 20 minutes
fewer.
Some of Llewellyn's minutes
came from lazy penalties in the
beginning of the season, Michigan
assistant coach Billy Powers said.
But now, Llewellyn limits inop-
portune penalties and those caused
simply by poor footwork.
"He's not taking penalties
where he's put himself in a vulner-
able position and his only reaction
would be to take a penalty," Powers
said. "He's playing better position-
ally, which is allowing him to find
those strong, solid hits when you

don't have to take penalties."
Llewellyn struggled with his
confidence and his ability to keep
up with the faster pace of colle-
giate competition during his fresh-
man year. After an offseason spent
focusing on agility and skating
techniques, Llewellyn has shown
slow and steady on-ice maturation
- as well as increasing self-confi-
dence - throughout this season.
"He was recruited as a guy that
was very trustworthy, a defensive
defenseman who brought that
physical element to the table," Pow-
ers said. "Now that he's adapted
better to the pace, and he's a lot
more confident in the speed of the
game, now you're starting to see
the physical Tristin come out a
little more.
"A year ago, where he had to go
looking for hits - this year, they're
coming to him a little bit better.
He's reading plays better."
Llewellyn's improved skating
and positioning have played impor-
tant roles in his strong sophomore
season. He's improved his plus-
minus rating by two points (cur-

rently plus-11), tallied 24 blocked
shots on the year and has allowed
just three even-strength goals since
January.
Llewellyn isn't the kind of guy
who hesitates to stick up for a
teammate or avoid a fight, either,
a habit that has led to some time
in the penalty box. But that tough
attitude helps make him a more
menacing physical presence on the
blueline.
"Hockeyis business,"Llewellyn's
father, David, said. "He doesn't like
people messing with his family,
which would be his team. That's
probably why he tries to stickup for
his teammates.
"He plays a very aggressive style
of hockey. Part of that probably
comes from when he was younger
playing Juniors, he had to do that to
stay alive."
Underneath the jersey and hock-
ey pads, though, Llewellyn is seem-
ingly a different person. When he's
not with his "family," he's often at
the hospital visiting sick children,
trying to put them at ease with
their surroundings.

(Left to Right) Alyssa, Sophomore Tristin Llewellyn, senior Travis Turnbull and freshman Luke Glendening at C.S. Moti's.

Llewellyn quickly realized
Alyssa was shy. After a few min-
utes in her hospital room two
weeks ago, he noticed that the
thin, blonde nine-year-old had
clammed up since he entered the
room, seemingly intimidated by a
new visitor's presence.
He quickly crossed the room to
stand next to Alyssa's bed.
"What's the name of your dog?"
he asked softly, pointing at the
giant stuffed animal on her lap.
His question immediately
engaged Alyssa, and after a few
minutes of conversation between
the two, she was grinning ear-to-
ear.
"There are athletes that go in
there and instantly know what
to say and make not only the kids
but the families more comfortable
that they're here," said Ed Boul-
lion, volunteer supervisor for the
"From the Heart" program.
"Tristin's one of them. We have
those naturals that come up here

and are doing it because they want
to do it. They get as much out of it
as the families. He'll always call
me or ask me questions to follow
up on what's going on."
Llewellyn is one of the most
common visitors on Thursday
nights, the time designated for
Michigan student-athletes in
"From the Heart," a program that
brings athletes to the hospital to
cheer up sick children.
Llewellyn began making regu-
lar hospital visits six years ago.
But the first patient he visited hit
closer to home than the others.
In 2003, while playing for the
Honeybaked hockey program
with current Michigan teammates
Aaron Palushaj and Matt Rust,
Llewellyn fired a slap shot that
flew into the stands during one
game. The puck hit Llewellyn's
younger brother, Darby, in the
head, fracturing his skull and
forcing him to spend nearly half a
week at C.S. Mott's. Llewellynvis-
the locker room grinning.
"(Llewellyn) loves to do things
like that," David said. "If he
believes he can put a smile on a
kid's face, he'll do it."
It was a stark contrast from a
half hour earlier when Llewellyn
was skating hard and fighting for
pucks during the game against
Western Michigan.
But even after watching him
slam players into boards and spend
time in the penalty box, those who
spend time around Llewellyn
aren't at all shocked by his off-ice
persona.
"No, it doesn't surprise me,"
Michigan coach Red Berenson
said. "He's an aggressive player but
he's a good person, a good kid. He's
got a big heart. I think he's another
humble kid. He didn't have every-
thing handed to him. He's worked
his way up. I think he'd be a good
example of what we'd expect from
all our players."
Powers reiterated Berenson's
point with an explanation of

ited his brother each day, and he
tried hard to convince the nurses
to let him bring in a Nintendo for
Darby to play with - to no avail.
"He treated me a lot nicer than
when he's just a normal brother,"
said Darby, now 12.
Spending three days in the
hospital gave Llewellyn a sense
of familiarity, and now he directs
other athletes around floors to
different rooms with little diffi-
culty. His attractionto C.S. Mott's
began with the personal connec-
tion he felt during Darby's recov-
ery.
But the constant trips to the
hospital aren't the first thing that
pops into his mind when he thinks
of the accident.
"It was even more annoy-
ing, because he was six, so I was
13," Llewellyn said. "You always
wrestle with your brother, right?
For six months, no contact. He
was sitting there poking every
button Ihad."

*I

CTH E N TE RSECTIONSThe Wolverines' final game of
the season at Yost Ice Arena on
Marchl14 was special for more than
just the players.
Sitting in wheelchairs behind the
glass near the Michigan bench, two
teenage boys enjoyed the hockey
game, a special vacation from the
hospital.
Derek and Kyle are two patients
at C.S. Mott's whom Llewellyn has
been visiting frequently since Jan.
19.
"He's a nice guy, really person-
able," Derek said, adding that he
enjoyed watching the game and
meeting the players.
Llewellyn, senior Travis Turn-
bull, freshman Robbie Czarnik and
freshman Luke Glendening, who
have also met the boys at the hospi-
tal, spoke excitedly of the two boys'
visit in the week leading up to the
game. They said they couldn't wait
to give them a tour of their locker
room after the contest.
CHR IS DZOMBAK/Daily Following the Wolverines' 6-1
Sophomore Tristin Llewellyn showed coaches his softer side during his recruitment by helping out with his little brother's team. win, Llewellyn and the boys all left

Llewellyn's recruiting.
Because Llewellyn was the first
commitment in hisclass and lives in
Ann Arbor, Powers and the rest of
the coaching staff got to know him
better than most recruits. And one
of Llewellyn's biggest selling points
was his relationship with Darby.
Llewellyn often helped out at
his brother's hockey practices
- a trend that still continues.
Llewellyn has also coached hockey
camps that his younger brother
has attended.
"We knew that he got on the ice
and helped that team at practice,"
Powers said. "When you see an
older kid taking his younger broth-
er under his wing and stuff, things
like that really stick out. They real-
ly show character and show that
he's really got a good heart.
"You don't find a lot of teenage
kids spending time with a 10-year-
old. ... The fact that he's willing to
give his time (now) to those in need
and be a role model, well, that's not
a surprise."

Michigan's baserunning blunders halt comeback in embarrassing upset defeat

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan baseball coach Rich
Maloney is a little too good at fore-
shadowing.
"In the great game of baseball,
anyone can win any game," Malo-
ney said before yesterday's game.
He was right.
A week after the Wolverines
beat Eastern Michigan in Ypsilanti,
Michigan suffered a disappointing
3-1 loss to the Eagles at Ray Fisher
Stadium yesterday.

"I think we just assumed we were
gonna win the game," Maloney said.
Again, he was right.
Junior first baseman Mike Dufek
was one of
the play- EASTERN MICH. 3
ers dem- MICHIGAN 1
onstrating
that overconfidence. After Michi-
gan beat Indiana University-Pur-
due University Fort Wayne 9-2 on
Sunday, Dufek was blunt about his
teammates' expectations.
"We know that we are supposed
to win," he said. "It's only a matter

of us focusing and playing well."
Two days later, Maloney sensed
that overconfidence in his team. He
saw an obvious lack of energy com-
ing into yesterday's game.
"I even talked to the team before
the game," Maloney said. "I said,
'Let's understand that anyone can
knock you off.' Maybe this will be a
lesson learned for later days."
The sluggish Wolverines fell
behind in the fourth inning when
Eastern Michigan sophomore Matt
Skirving hit a two-run home run
over the right field wall.

And in uncharacteristic fashion,
Michigan couldn't respond to an
early deficit. Another run in the
sixth inning extended the Eagles'
lead to three.
In the bottom of the seventh
inning, the Wolverines cut the defi-
cit to two with senior Kevin Cislo's
RBI groundout which sent catcher
Tim Kalczynski home.
Michigan threatened in the
eighth, advancing runners to first
and second with a single and a walk,
but the Eagles got out of the inning
by picking Kalczynski off first base.

And again, during the ninth, the
Eagles picked off redshirt junior
Nick Urban at first, thwarting hopes
of a Michigan final-inning rally.
"We obviously killed ourselves,"
Cislo said. "We had a good week-
end (against IPFW), and we came
in with our heads high and got
knocked down right away."
Michigan's limited offensive
production didn't help its lethar-
gic early-inning play. The Wolver-
ines have scored one run or fewer
three times this season, and all
three games were losses. Despite

10 hits in yesterday's game, Michi-
gan couldn't figure out how to move
runners around the bags.
With the Wolverines opening
conference play Friday at Iowa,
Maloney knows his team can't keep
stranding runners if it hopes to be
a legitimate contender for the Big
Ten Championship. Not overlook-
ing opponents is key, too.
"At some point, you have to have
that fight inside yourself," Malo-
ney said. "They've got to make the
plays, they've got to get the hits,
and they've got to get the pitches."

0


The Michigan Daily
-0

..


Wednesday, March 25, 2009
Personal Statement
The night I can't remember ByMelanie acEach rn

0 0

icture this: you're a 17-year- into my college life, my naivety had
old girl from Arizona thrown become but a jaded outer shell of my
into campus life at the Uni- molten, burning interior.
versity of Michigan. At first, there It would be difficult enough had
is the inevitable struggle of meeting I simply been raped and knew it.
people and making friends. You're But I didn't know. The roofie coin
impressed by almost anyone you had been flipped, and not knowing
meet and jump at the chance to hang whether the outcome was heads or
outwith someone new - even when tails wracked my ability to cope. I
it means forcing your mother's crit- turned to every potential distrac-
icism to the back of your mind. You tion: drinking, smoking, drugs of
know exactly what she would say: every variety and even the hot pur-
"You don't know what these people suit of sex that I hoped could cool
are capable of. What exactly are you the anger and distress.
intending to gain from any experi- Nothing helped. I tried to sup-
ence with them? You don't know press the memory of waking up
anything about them." But you toss in a strange bathroom, jimmying
off that inner voice and skip into the the window to escape and walk-
night looking for fun free of a cur- ing across town back to my all-girls
few and your parents' scrutinizing dorm. I couldn't remember any-
eyes. thing that had occurred on that
That voice, which I so easily fateful night after running into
ignored at the beginning of college, someone who I vaguely knew on
now taunts me on a regular basis. the street and going with my new
I can hear it all the time - yelling, friend to a bar. Only the lingering
judging and criticizing. As an ado- feeling of something horrible and
lescent, I'd heard my mothertalking the edge of expectation was left to
about other girls my age, ones who fuel my emotional distress.
had been raped or assaulted, with a I found myself trying to blame
disdainful tone. To her, these inci- Ann Arbor, the University and my
dents were always the girl's fault so-called "friends" for everything.
- her stupidity and her inability to I wanted to transfer somewhere
make proper decisions. else where I wasn't just a student
of course, my mother's world- number or a unigname. I longed to
view impacted mine. My first incli- replace the carefree acquaintances
nation after hearing about a sexual I had collected with new friends
assault was to make hasty assump- and professors, intellectuals who
tions. What did she do wrong? How would shield me from my emotions
did she bring this upon herself? This and guide me into a world of logic
remained my perspective, unques- and reason.
tioned and unchallenged, until an This internal campaign came
experience changed it entirely. One to a head during this past winter
single night gouged my frame of break when I told my parents that
self-reference - just three weeks I wanted to move to Seattle. As I
U.S. NEWS AND REPORT that beat Michigan in the U.S. News
From Page 4B rankings.
Still, some statistics do not bode
Five percent accounts for gradu- well for the University's rank. Mich-
ation rate performance, which the igan had astudent-facultyratio of 15
publication calculates by finding the tot1 last year, while Princeton boast-
difference between the year's grad- ed a 5 to 1 ratio and the Massachu-
uation rate and the rate U.S. News setts Institute of Technology had a 6
had predicted for that class. The to 1 ratio, according to a North Caro-
final 5 percent considers the rate of lina State University website devot-
alumni donations. ed to following higher education.
Not surprisingly, Michigan Michigan also ranks outside the top
boasts statistics justifiable for its 30 institutions concerning alumni
not-too-shabby rank: according to donations with a rate of 18 percent.
collegeresults.org, the University Princeton, Yale, Harvard and other
had a graduation rate of 86.9 per- institutions ranked higher by U.S.
cent in 2006, below only that of News claim alumni donation rates
UCLA and UC-Berkley, institutions as high as 60 percent.

danced around the subject, try-
ing to express my distaste for Ann
Arbor and feed them the excuses
I'd spent so long convincing myself
were legitimate, I came closer and
closer to the confession I had resist-
ed for almost a year and a half.
Finally, in what was supposed to
be a happy, warm mother-daugh-
ter bonding day, I couldn't resist
any longer. Sitting in my mother's
Toyota, we argued back and forth:
why I hated Ann Arbor, what that,
did and didn't have to do with my
The worst part
about being
roofied is not
knowing
for sure.
educational experience, how I was
drowning in a gigantic student
population and could do nothing to
battle the bureaucracy. "This is just
real life," she said. I broke down.
"Reallife?" I said. "I'll tell you about
real life, mother. I was raped."
I felt the wave of anger sub-
side as I paused, awaiting her
response. Would she fulfill my pre-
vious expectations? Would she yell?
Curse? Attempt to break down my
psyche for my mistakes? Group me
in with the other "stupid" or "pro-
miscuous" girls that I had heard
FORBES MAGAZINE
From Page 4B
Although the University mighi
not boast the most Nobel Prize
winners, how it could fall below
schools like Furman University
and Maryville College is befud-
dling. As already mentioned
Michigan boasts an impressive
graduation rate, and the num-
ber of former Wolverines in the
Obama administration should
help in the "Who's Who" depart-
ment.
Why, then, such a deplorable
rank? According to the Forbes
website, small liberal arts school:

her criticize so often before? But it
didn't matter anymore. I had said
what I needed to express, not only
to her but to myself
A mother's protective nature
always pulls through. She sat in
silence, tears rolling down her
made-up face. All she said was,
"Why didn't you tell me?" in heart-
wrenchingconfusion, over and over
again. Then she wanted to know
how, where, why. She partook in my
own epic disbelief. She wasn't judg-
mental; she simply had no frame
of reference for what I was going
through. I'd finally broken the
thick, critical exterior and brought
to her something to identify with, if
only just barely.
Apparently, that was all that
I needed. I needed to explain to
my mother, someone who I know
would unconditionally love and
care for me, even if she would never
be able to comprehend the magni-
tude of my situation. Since then, I
have been able to re-think the past
year and a half of my college experi-
ence. Sometimes, all one needs is to
cry in her mother's arms.
As my perspective changed, hers
did as well. Lately,she's beenhound-
ing me about getting back on birth
control in an attempt to protect us
both from something that she has
always denied: my sexual activity.
She has opened her mind once again
to the trials and tribulations of a girl
my age, a college student living and
learning on her own.
I'm not trying to encourage all
girls in my situation to speak out,
stand up and preach their troubles
on some sort of soapbox. It certain-
rank higher "due to their quality
of faculty and the personal atten-
tion they can provide." As Forbes
t bluntly puts it: "generally speak-
ing, big state schools performed
poorly." The University of Texas
and the University of Wiscon-
-sin, which usually hover around
Michigan in the U.S. News rank-
ings, were ranked at 215th and
- 335th, respectively.
Simply put, Michigan, with
I an undergraduate community of
- more than 25,000, gets the short-
er end of Forbes's stick against
schools like 12th-ranked Wabash
s ("a tiny, all-male school") with a
s freshman class of 250 students.

ly took me a long time to even com-
prehend what had happened to me.
What I want is to encourage women
on campus to have integrity, under-
standing and the capability for rea-
son that my mother didn't have and
that plenty of other women certain-
ly don't have. This isn't something
that occurs because of throw-
ing yourself at someone and then
recoiling after experiencing the
emotional results. This isn't *ome-
thing that happens after a night of
drunk partying and unintentional
seduction. This is something that
just happens, without a single cause
and certainly no solution.
Compassion is absolutely neces-
sary, and when I overhear people on
campus talking about "some slut,"
I feel sick. I may very well.be that
"slut," that "whore," that wicked
"she-demon" flaunting her past to
gain some sympathy. But I would
hate to see those girls who pass
judgment on other women have
their opinions changed as painfully
as mine were.
My one piece of advice for girls
facing what I have: tell your mother.
Just tell her. Regardless of how you
think that she will react, don't har-
bor that pain inside any longer than
you have to. Tell her without expec-
tations built up in defense. Regard-
less of her reaction to your story,
you need to let it out to the woman
who understands you the most. Her
reaction may surprise you - and
trust me, it feels so much better
after crying on that shoulder.
- Melanie MacEachern
is an LSA sophomore.
JOIN
THE
DAILY
ONLINE
STAFF
E-mail
graca@michigandaily.com

r-,
-^ . .
.
k

lI
IN THE- EYE OF THE BEHOLDER
WHY THE UNIVERSITY IS PRAISED BY SOME COLLEGE
RANKINGS AND DISPARAGED BY OTHERS 4B




0 0 S S U

AM, Amk i

0

0

0


I -"..

WedesdyMarh 5, 009-. he ic iga .al

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
ManagingEditor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Lan Truong
Cover illustration:
Laura Garavoglia
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, which is
distributed every Wednesday
during the academic year

new rules
rule 194: Your
study abroad
stories aren't
any more
interesting than
other study
abroad stories.
Keep them
short. rule
195: The "ironic
mustache" isn't
ironic when
every scenester
creep has one.
rule 196: If you
ask a second-
semester senior
to do something
for you, don't be
surprised when
they get drunk
instead.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheSt atement@umich.edu

UPDATE FROM
the "Go Blue Girly Confessions" wall
One stall in the Fishbowl women's bathroom has persisted
as a spot for anonymous graffiti group therapy, despite the
University's attempt last year to paint over the writing. Now,
the span of supportive scribbles has grown larger than ever.
"I hate my leg hair - have I been
brainwashed by society's beauty
standards? I've tried letting it grow
but I just can't stand the fur."
"Not a big deal. You decide how
you want to look; as long as it's not
unhealthy who cares what's PC?'
"I think Imight be pregnant."
"Me too."
"I think my boyfriend cheated on me.
I don't know if it's just my paranoia
left over from past relationships or if
my attention to the subject is driving
him to it. I'm sick of myself"
"(Several months later) I just found out he
was cheating. I should have trusted myself."
"I love my sorority sisters but hate the stereotype."
"I LOVE MY SISTERS BUT
HATE MY SORORITY"
"WHERE ARE THE SMART, CARING, SENSITIVE
WOMEN I SEE ON THESE WALLS? WHY DON'T
I KNOW ANY OF THEM? WHAT IS WRONG
WITH THE WORLD WHEN PEOPLE CAN ONLY
COMMUNICATE VIA A BATHROOM STALL?"


WHO'S YOUR NOMINEE
FOR STUDENT OF THE YEAR?
The Michigan Daily is looking for nominations for the Students of the Year edition of
The Statement, which will feature people from every corner of campus whose personal
achievements or contributions to the community deserve special recognition.
Please e-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com with a description of the nominee's
accomplishments along with the student's full name, e-mail address, college and year.
DEADLINE: MARCH 27

Wondering if you're making the right career decisions? Get your questions answered
with 30-Minute Mentors, brought to you by the Alumni Association.
Meet one-on-one with a U-M alum in a casual setting and find out what his or her job
is like.
This is your chance to get your questions answered from someone who knows. It could
be the most important 30 minutes you spend on campus this spring.
When: Friday, April 3
Sessions offered from 11 am m ep.m.
[~j ~ Pick the time that fits your schedule.
Where: Alumni Center, 200 Fletcher St., at the corner of Fletcher and
Washington, next to the Michigan League and across from MLB.
Who: Alumni in a variety of career fields, including, finance, marketing,
g '4. Journalism, accounting and business.

The spots are limited and will be filled on a
first-come, first-served basis so sign up today!
www.umalumni.com/students

0V
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
U41IVERSIY OF M~IIGAN

"We're busy studying."





w

w _


AISOMETH INGON
Even in the toughest of economic times, there is money to be made. It all depends on
how far you are willing to go to make quick cash. By Kristen Steagall I Daily Staff Writer

Wedesay Mac :25 208 . Dily



QUOTES OF THE WEEK
I need more attractive
waitresses to go along
with the ones I have
right now."
- TOM TSOUMAS, co-owner of Foxy
Lady strip club in Rhode Island, on his plan
to hold a job fair to hire workers who have
been laid off because of the bad economy

"The young naked man
approached her with this
poodle, and she immediately
realized something peculiar."
- CRAIG MAST, a police lieutenant for Oceana Coun-
ty, Mich., explaining how a 14-year-old boy walking
naked with a big white poodle assaulted a 53-year-old
woman who asked if he needed help. The boy pushed
the woman over, broke her cell phone and then fled

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Tuition hikes
2. UMMA
3. Global currency
And three things you can't: =
1. Obama's NCAA bracket
2. Cheney's vitriol
3. The Pope's stance on AIDS

"These people are serious. Please help me."
- KHADIJA ABDUL QAHAAR, a 55-year-old Canadian journalist who converted to Islam after the
Sept. 11 attacks, making a plea in a video for someone to rescue her from the Taliban. She was taken
hostage a few months ago during a freelance reporting trip to North Waziristan, and the Taliban
have threatened to behead her if the group doesn't receive a $2 million ransom by the end of March

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
More madness
For many people, March is a time
when most everything else is sub-
ordinated to college basketball. You
spend your days glued to the televi-
sion, bracket in hand, waiting for the
scores to roll in. And that's with only
64 teams in the tournament.
In this video, brought to you by
The Onion, the NCAA has appar-
ently decided to increase the number
of teams in March Madness to 4,096.
But don't panic. College basketball
analysts Tim and Joe are going to
distinguish the "contenders from the
pretenders" when they debate the
newly-expanded tournament in "The
Stream Room."
Was it a good idea to enlarge the
tournament? Definitely, Joe says,
because too many teams were unjust-
ly excluded in years past. Now, the
tournament will include teams from
Divisions II and III, community
colleges, online colleges and trade,
technical and devotional schools,
Regrettably, however, Oxnard Cali-
fornia's Advanced Truck Driving
School was left out this year because
its coach didn't register the team in
time for the tournament.
This revamped tournament will
now be called June Madness. People
will be able to watch 500 games a day
and, if they so choose, 24 games at
once. It's really for the fans, Joe says.
Start filling out those brackets. It
could take a while.
- BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Spring Awakening - After a seemingly intermi-
nable winter, it's finally warming up outside, which
means it's time to reunite with the friends you
haven't seen since November. To do this, throw a
party in the Arb on a sunny afternoon. Bring plenty
of alcohol, blankets and, if you must, a Frisbee. Let
the sun warm the outside of your body while the
alcohol warms the inside. Bring a jacket, though.
It'll probably be snowing again when you leave.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStotement@umich.edu

BY THE NUMBERS
Amount, in dollars, that a bidder paid for the Pearl Carpet of Baroda,
which was commissioned for the tomb of the Prophet Muhammad
Numbers of years since the carpet was commissioned in India
Estimated number of individual natural seed pearls used to
make the carpet
Source: BBc

j

STUDY OF THE WEEK
Moderate drinking in social settings can be healthy
Moderate levels of alcohol consumed in social settings can reduce
ratesofheartdisease andstroke, accordingtoastudyrecentlypublished
in the journal Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research.
For the study, the researchers looked at the drinking habits, social
networks and cardiovascular health of 19,356 Japanese men aged 40
to 60. Drinking patterns were divided into seven categories, includ-
ing "never," "past" and "occasional." For those who drank more
often, the researchers charted how many grams of alcohol they con-
sumed per week.
After nine years or more of observing the study participants, the
researchers discovered 629 strokes and 207 coronary heart diseases.
Those who drank more heavily, defined as 300 grams of alcohol per
week or more, increased their risk of stroke. But those who drank mod-
erately or lightly in social settings with friends actually reduced their
chances of contracting stroke and heart disease.
- BRIAN TENGEL



lqw

4B The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, March 25, 2009

Wednesday, March 25. 2009 -The Michigan Daily 51B

RANKINGTHE R/
THE KEY TO INTERPRETING COLLEGE RANKINGS IS UNDERSTANDING THE METHODOLOGY BEHIND THEM. WHICH OF

'NKINGS
THESE WILDLY DIFFERING SYSTEMS ARE WORTHWHILE?

BY STEPHEN OSTROWSKI
DAILY STAFF WRITER
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN calls itself
home of the leaders and best, And while the catch-
phrase might smack of arrogance, there is plenty
of support that this school does lead the pack and
is one of the best - application rates, research
grants, alumni base apd college rankings.
The U.S. News and World Report lists the Uni-
versity as the 26th-best institution of higher educa-
tion in the country, wedged comfortably between
the University of California at Los Angeles and the
University of Southern California, respectively.
Forbes Magazine, meanwhile, listed the Univer-
sity at161st, right between Lake Forest College and
Wisconsin Lutheran College.
In the world of college rankings, neck-breaking
double takes abound. But it's the nature of the
business that discrepancies exist - why would
Forbes begin ranking schools if its list was going to
match up almost exactly with U.S. News, the lead-
ing rankings publication? The flip side to that, of
course, is how could a dozen different publications
differentiate their rankingsysternsenough to make
printing them worthwhile? The trick is widely vary-
ing methodologies so that the same qualities that
got a university in one publication's top 20 barely
warrant a ranking above 200 to another publica-
tion.
College rankings might not be what they appear
to be, but they can't be written off altogether. At
least prospective students don't think so. Accord-
ing to Michigan Cooperative Institutional Research
data, 41.6 percent of students entering the Uni-
versity in Fall 2008 said that rankings were "very
impnrtant" in decidincEwhere tn attend. nmnared

U.S. News 1. HARVARD
and World 2. PRINCETON
3.YALE
Report 26. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Undoubtedly the recognized authority on college rankings, the U.S. News list
can be likened to the hyper-masculine, turbo-Neanderthal fourth-grader that dom-
inates the blacktop and crushes the meek competition. But name recognition does
not necessarily translate into respect.
The.Education Conservancy, an education reform organization, has an open letter
on its website signed by several university presidents that criticizes the U.S. News
rankings as "misleading" and says that its system tends to "overlook the importance
of a student in making education happen and overweight the importance of a uni-
versity's prestige in that process."
As detailed on its website (college.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com), U.S. news
obtains its rankings by averaging together differently weighted components. First
is peer assessment, weighed at 25 percent, for which university administrators rate
schools' academic programs on a 1-5 scale. Second is retention rate, weighed at 20
percent, which measures how many students graduate in six years or less and how
many freshmen return the next year. Another 20 percent is faculty resources, con-
sisting of class size, faculty pay, the highest college degrees obtained by professors,
student-faculty ratio and percentage of fulltime faculty.
Then, there is student selectivity (measured by standardized test scores),
accounting for 15 percent. The next 10 percent is financial resources or "average
spending per student on instruction, research, student services, and related educa-
tion expenditures."
See U.S. NEWS AND REPORT, Page 85

0
LW
0
V

16. BROWN UNIVERSITY
17. RICE UNIVERSITY
18. EMORY UNIVERSITY
18. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
18. VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY
21. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA - BERKELEY
22 CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
23. GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
23. UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
25. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA - LOS ANGELES
26. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR
27. UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
28. TUFTS UNIVERSITY
28. WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY
30. UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA - CHAPEL HILL
31. BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY
32. COLLEGE OF WILLIAM AND MARY
33. NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
34. BOSTON COLLEGE
35. GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
35. LEHIGH UNIVERSITY
SOURCE: U.S. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT

Forbes 1. PRINCETON
CAUFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Magazine 3. HARVARD
161. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Playing apparent foil to the U.S. News is Forbes Magazine, whose rankings are
based on "the quality of education (universities) provide and how much their stu-
dents achieve."
. Rankings are determined in conjunction with the Center for College Afford-
ability and Productivity and include five components. First, weighed at 25 percent,
is the number of alumni in the yearly "Marquis Who's Who in America" list, a
directory of influential people in the nation. A description of the rankings system's
methodology on Forbescom said this measurement was selected over the peer
assessment method used by U.S. News and student opinion prioritized heavily in
Princeton'Review. The Forbes list focuses on alumni achievement more directly
than any other rankings.
Accounting for another 25 percent is student evaluation of professors, compiled
from entries on RateMyProfessor.com. Anyone who's posted a too-harsh review
on the website out of temporary anger might see how this measurement could be
imperfect. But Forbes attests that the method is sound, as the website serves as
a sort of consumer review forum free from the control of university administra-
tors.
Rounding out the list's components are four-year graduation rate (16.66percent),
average student debt (16.66 percent), and number of awards won by students and
faculty. Among the awards considered are the Rhodes Scholarship and-Fulbright
grants for students and the Nobel Prize and Guggenheim Fellowship for faculty.
See FORBES MAGAZINE, Page 8B
151. OTTERBEIN COLLEGE
152. JOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY
153. HOBART AND WILLIAM SMITH COLLEGES
154. FURMAN UNIVERSITY
155. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS, URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
156. UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND
157. MARYVILLE COLLEGE
158. LEBANON VALLEY COLLEGE
159 GOSHEN COLLEGE
160. LAKE FOREST COLLEGE
161. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR
162. WISCONSIN LUTHERAN COLLEGE
163 OKLAHOMA BAPTIST UNIVERSITY
164. CENTENARY COLLEGE OF LOUISIANA
165. WHITWORTH COLLEGE
166. HOPE COLLEGE
167. UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
168. MARIETTA COLLEGE
169. UNITED STATES COAST GUARD ACADEMY
170. LEWIS AND CLARK COLLEGE
171. THOMAS AQUINAS COLLEGE
SOURCE: FORBES MAGAZINE

Washington tMIT
Monthly College -.CLBREE
3. PENN STATE
Rankings 18. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Harvard is ranked 28th. Enough said?
On its website,The Washington Monthly prefaces its rankings with the follow-
ing: "Welcome to The Washington Monthly College Rankings. Unlike other college
guides, such as the U.S. News and World Report, this guide asks not what colleges
can do for you, but what colleges are doing for their country." Kennedy allusions
aside, The Washington Monthly aims to create rankings of colleges based on one
question: "Are they doing well by doing good?"
To actually measure universities' devotion to the adage "do good by doing good,"
The Washington Monthly determines its rankings by three components. The first
is a school's capability to perform as an "engine of social mobility"based on the pro-
jected graduation rate of Pell students (grants received by lower-income students).
Factored in next is research in the humanities and sciences, determined by
money spent on projects, the number of PhDs awarded in Science and Engineering
and the number of alums who go on to obtain PhDs.
Finally, The Washington Monthly weighs service to the community, measured
by percentage of students in ROTC, alums in the Peace Corps and grants given to
community service projeets. Michigan is one of six institutions to send over 2,000
volhnteers to the Peace Corps, according to the Peace Corps website.
Any rankings system that casts Harvard outside the top 10 is pretty anomalous
- but keeping in mind President Kennedy's designation of the Peace Corps on the
steps of -the Michigan Union, any rankings system that gives priority to student
service seems pretty noble as well.
8. CORNELL UNIVERSITY
9. SOUTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY
10. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS
11. UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN, MADISON
12. YALE UNIVERSITY
13. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
14. UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
15. UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
16. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS, URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
17. UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS, AUSTIN
18. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR
19. COLLEGE OF WILAM AND MARY
20. UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
21. UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER
22. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, RIVERSIDE
23. DUKE UNIVERSITY
24. ALABAMA A&M UNIVERSITY
25. CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
26. RICE UNIVERSITY,
27. OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS
28. HARVARD UNIVERSITY
SOURCE: WASHINGTON MONTHLY

Global 1. HARVARD
Language OFMIATY OF MICIGAN
Monitor
Perhaps the most novel rankings system belongs to the Global Language
Monitor, a linguistics organization ranking schools based on, according to lan-
guagemonitor.com, a school's "appearance on the Internet, throughout the blo-
gosphere, as well as global print and electronic media."
This system seeks to measure prominence of a school's "brand name" by
counting how many times its name is mentioned online as well as in print and
electronic media. GLM attains this information with its "Trendtopper analysis"
system; which the company has used to track trends in word usage over the last
five years.
GLM President Paul J.J. Payack said on the website that the students who go
farthest are those who carry the best name recognition.
"Prospective students, alumni, employers, and the world at large believe that
students who are graduated from such institutions will carry on the all the hall-
marks of that particular school," Payack said. "Our TrendTopper analysis is a
way of seeing the schools through the eyes of the world at large."
That is good news for Michigan students: GLM has the University ranked
third, behind only Harvard and Columbia.
GLM's ranking system is certainly an innovative idea, given the increasingly
digital, Twitter addicted world. But should-GLM's rankings grow in.clout, uni-
versities might try to inflate their rank with obnoxious viral videos. It'll be a sad
day when a university tries to garner attention via "I'm On a Boat"-type YouTube
stardom.
1. HARVARD UNIVERSITY
2. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
3. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR
4. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
5. STANFORD UNIVERSITY
6. UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
7. UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN
8. YALE UNIVERSITY
9. PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
10. CORNELL UNIVERSITY
11. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
12. JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY
13. DUKE UNIVERSITY
14, BOSTON UNIVERSITY
15. NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
16. UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
17. GEORGIA TECH
18. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA BARBARA
19. MIT
20. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
21. BOSTON UNIVERSITY
SOURCE: THE GLOBAL LANGUAGt MONITOR


