BREAK BURYING THE GOPHERS
iould align our In a must-win situation, the Michigan men's
i those of other basketball team dominated Minnesota to keep its
inion, Page 4. Tournament hopes alive. See Sports, Page 8.

~"'
~w

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, February 20, 2009

michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Prices to
drop for
'090tickets
'U' bucks trend at BY THE NUMBERS
other schools, cites $1.43
tough economy The average decrease per game in
Michigan student season-ticket prices
By TREVOR CALERO
Daily News Editor $ .57
BillMarinthe nivrsiy's The average decrease per game in
ath etic Mre rh eUn ie rys Michiganregular-season ticket prices
terday that the price of football
tickets will decrease for the 2009
season. The average increase per gamein Ohio
"It's a tough economic time and State regular-season ticket prices
there's no need to increase ticket
prices," Bruce Madej, Athletic $ 0
Department spokesman, said in a The average increase per game in
phone interview yesterday. Michigan State regular-season ticket prices


University Union food service chefs Mike Szczepanski (right) and Tom Kulczynski (left) craving ice in front of the Michigan Union yesterday. The ice carving was part of the
Breaking the Ice event held by the Michigan Union Arts and Programs.
THE ANN ARBOR BOOK SCENE
Bookseller makes plea to

Poor economy, low
textbook sales and
e-commerce add up to
hurt Shaman Drum
By MATT AARONSON
Daily StaffReporter
with the economy mired in
recession, conditions are bleak for
Ann Arbor booksellers.
The Borders on Liberty Street,
in the city where the company

was founded, is the flagship store
of what used to be one of the most
prosperous nationwide retailers.
Today, with massive debts and the
company's stock value dropping,
bankruptcy could be in the chain's
future.
Just around the corner on State
Street, Shaman Drum Bookshop is
a different kind of bookstore. The
small, mostly literature-oriented
shop prides itself on its community
focus.
But independent bookstores like
Shaman Drum are facing troubles
of their own.

The AnnArbor Chronicle printed
an open letter from Shaman Drum
owner Karl Pohrt on Tuesday.
Pohrt lamented the "disinterme-
diation resulting from customers
migrating to the Internet coupled
with the frightening economic cri-
sis." He wrote that Shaman Drum
started losing money in September.
Pohrt admitted, though, that he
"sort of saw this coming."
"The book industry in the United
States, as a business model, really
doesn't work very well for anybody,"
Pohrt said in an interview with the
Daily earlier this month.

According to Pohrt, the conver-
gence of three main trends - the
falling popularity of books, the
cost-saving convenience of Inter-
net commerce and the state of the
economy - foretell the fate of the
already suffering independent
booksellers.
Pohrt said that textbook sales in
particular have been a drag on Sha-
man Drum's bottom line, as more
students buy their books online.
As a panelist on the University
Textbook Task Force last year,
Pohrt opposed the uBook program,
See SHAMAN DRUM, Page 7

The price of student tickets
will decrease an average of $1.43
per game, which will put the
price of the eight game season
ticket package at $200.
The average price per game for
.;regular season ticket holders will
be $50, down $3.57 from last year,
and will total $400.
Madej said the Athletic Depart-
ment has been considering the
price decrease since December,
when it normally starts looking
at next season's ticket pricing.
The decision comes in light of
the fact that many universities
around the country have been
forced to increase football ticket
prices because of the struggling
economy.
"The interesting portion of
this is that most everyone else is
increasing ticket (prices)," Madej
said. "We're fortunate enough
that we can hold the line, and
even decrease them."
On Feb. 15, Michigan State
University announced it was rais-
ing ticket prices after a four-year

freeze. General public season
tickets will increase 7.1 percent,
to a total cost of $308.
Similarly, Ohio State Univer-
sity Athletic Director Gene Smith
announced Feb. 4 that Ohio State
would be increasing the price of
football and basketball tickets by
$1 per game.
However, neither Michigan
State nor Ohio State chose to
increase the price of student tick-
ets.
Individual game tickets sold to
the general public will range from
$50 to $65 per game for University
of Notre Dame and Ohio State.
"Notre Dame, Penn State,
Ohio State plus the reminder
of the Big Ten schedule make
for a very strong and exciting
home schedule," Martin said in a
press release. "We also have two
in-state institutions (Western
Michigan University and East-
ern Michigan University) on the
schedule, which helps keep the
See FOOTBALL TICKETS, Page 7

REGENTS MEETING
Student group seeks
sustainability office

I Student Sustainability
Initiative says now is
the time to take lead
on energy efficiency
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
A University student group that
aims to make campus more energy
efficient called on the University
Board of Regents yesterday at its
monthly meeting to create a cen-
tralized sustainability office at the
University.
Members of the Student Sus-
tainability Initiative, a coalition
of 14 sustainability-minded stu-
dent groups, said that by creating
a central office of sustainability
on campus, the University could
become a leader in environmental
sustainability and save money in
the long run.
The group submitted a letter at
the end of last month to University
President Mary Sue Coleman and
has met with the University Chief
Financial Officer Timothy Slottow
on the issue.

Merry Walker, team coordina-
tor for SSI, said now is the opti-
mal time for the University to
take action, considering President
Barack Obama's and Michigan
Gov. Jennifer Granholm's energy
plans.
"President Obama has outlined
energy and environmental legisla-
tion with plans to make more than
5 million green jobs in the new
economy," she said. "There is no
better time for our university to
seize this opportunity of change
and guide these transitions."
Walker added that many
companies are making sustain-
ability a priority, through part-
nerships with universities on
energy-related issues. In some
cases, companies are creating
new, executive-level positions
focusing on sustainability.
Walker said the biggest chal-
lenge to existing sustainability
groups on campus is the decentral-
ization of the University. Sixty-one
environmental groups currently
exist on campus, but Walker said
there is no central group to coor-
dinate events and communications
between the groups.
See SUSTAINABILITY, Page 7

Walker looks for new challenge at 'U'
Final dean of students candidate }
brings 26 years of diverse experience i
from the University of Miami
By DEVON THORSBY
For the Daily
After growing up in Tennessee and working for the past 22
years in Florida, Richard Walker, the assistant vice president
for Student Affairs at the University of Miami, may be trading
in his sandals for snow boots if selected as the University of
Michigan's new dean of students.
Walker, who has 26 years of experience working in higher
education student affairs, visited campus yesterday as one
of three finalist candidates for the dean of students. Students
were invited to attend an informal lunch and forum with the
candidate, followed by a public presentation by Walker on his
philosophy as a university administrator.
In his 22 years at the University of Miami, Walker has held a
wide range of responsibilities involving student affairs, includ-
ing positions in Greek Affairs, Judicial Affairs, Intercollegiate
Athletics and Alumni Relations.
Walker is also an active member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
the U.S.'s largest social fraternity, having served in local, state
and national levels within the fraternity, according to a biogra-
phy released by the University of Michigan.
When asked why he chose to apply for the position of Univer-
sity of Michigan dean of students in his public presentation to
students and faculty yesterday, Walker explained that he want-
ed to move on in his professional career, and that the University
offered the challenge he desires.
"This is the one position that piqued my interest ... partly
because it is the University of Michigan," he said. ROB MIGRIN/Daily
See CANDIDATE, Page 7 Dean of students candidate, Richard Walker, in the Michigan Union yesterday.


WEATHER HI:27
TOMORROW LO 16

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news~almichigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
How lower football ticket prices add up.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS..............................2 ARTS.. . . ...........5
Vol. CXIXII, No. 99 SUDO KU .............. ....3 CLASSIFIEDS.............. .. ...6
2vv9Then ichganvaiy OPIN IO N .............................4 SPO RTS................................8

i


2 - Friday, February 20, 2009

2 - ridy, ebrury 0, 009The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Campus Characters

WEDNESDAY:
Explained

T'HUR!
Before You'

LEFT Offi cers rinse ott the tuird tlour ot the Van Duren House in aursley MORE ONLN
Hall at around 1 am. on Saturday morning. (CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily)MO E NL E
TOP Yuan Chen, a sophomore chemical engineering student, performsoat Fer more photos of the week,
the first annual Tamwanese Student Association Karaoke Competition last go to michlgaodatlycrOM
toiday. (WILL MOELLtR/Daly)
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 41109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA EL ATNA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-647-a336 734-764-0558
gataa@michigandaity.com bugti@michigandaitycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroomnoffie rhoursSun.-Thors. Ja .m. -a2a.n.
News Tips news@michigandaity.cam
Corrections correonsn@michigandaily.com
lettes to the Editor tothedaiy@rnihiandaitpuanm
Photography Departnent photo@michigandailyecom
Arts Section artspaeu@nichigandaily.uam
Editorial Page opinion@miehigandaily.com
Sports Section syorts@mihigandaily.uom
Display Sales display@michigandail.comr
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineadgoichigandaity.oen
Finance financeenichigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courney Ratknwiak ManagingEdinor ratkawiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob Snilo~itZ Monaging NesEdinorn movitzon@michigandaity.eom
uENuRouEWSmEDsORS:Jilns serman,,TrevrCe, uie R5owen, Lindy Strevens
RoherttSoave EditorialiPae Edinore savee@michigandailyecom
Andy Reid Monagirrg~portotEditor reid@miehigandaity.een
SNInORSPOTS EIORS:iolenAerbac5h,Meis~enstenin,aedan,hris
ASSISTNSORSE DITRS:ynn artj~isne,I n a,usnnole,,ChsMeszaro,
AlexProer, ClRosenweig,,
David Watnick Maonrging5Otditor watnick@michigandaicoma
S OnRoARTS EDITORS: JmiesBlock,Brndron nrdi,mWhitnePo
unASSNTuSou IORS:noroosaoayr, ndr~r,rewLp nvRea,en n gne r
Zachary Meisner and photognrichigandailycon
Clit Reeder Muaaing~hoto Editors
SENI OR OIORS: Said A55l, 5ChanenlVonH~asbug-Lotringn
Angela Chih and design@mictrigandaity.con
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
Jessica losgenchian MagazinerEdinor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DaoldMenian Multimedia Edinor merian@miehigaodaitp.aon
Katheine Mitchell CopyoChief mintrhell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer DisplnadvertisingaestnManager
Newmn,,Chrsti1e ilp
Ryan Dusinski CliierdoSalesManager
Clssiured SlAsr uistanMnager:ulisnThomas
Marissa Genben OnlineSalesnManager
Den English ProductonDesign Manager
Menyl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless tinance Managers
ThenMcrhiganaltISNta74-96) stlse ondayturonsuvhoFridaydurint the'fl n, in.ite
trmsncbystdenmatthnniernrsi ohgn.One copn isalbeifree ofcharge to lldrs.d
Adiionan:copies maybnpckdvp trthervai'ofivce frt. Subcrintonsforifallandiinter term
(Septmbertrouhnpril via.S.mal aett20.Year-roundsitions(ulli~nter, tprigand
Summer issues)are$t25. Scitin ustnbe prepad. TheMichiganDaily inaeer ofThe
AsociatedPress and TeAoiatned Collegiatress.

4

14

I0

CRME NOTES
Turkey cheese
sub sandwich
stolen in hospital
WHERE: Mutt Children's Hun-
pical, DSOS Simpsono Road
WHEN: Wednesday arounad a
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown sobject
stole half of a foot long turkey
anad cheese Subway sandwich
and a 20 oz. Pepsi front ornate
diner in che Mutt Children's
Hospital. The stolen itenon cost
$3.28. There are nan suspects.
Staff member
backs into car
WHERE: Lot SC-20,1ltt4 State
Street
WHEN: Wednesday around
11:40 am.
WHAT: A nmale staff memo-
her backed into a parked car
while tryinog to leave the load-
log dock an laundry services.
No itnjuries were reported.

Table snagged
from West Quad
WHERE: West Quad
WHEN: Wednesday arond 10
WHAT: A three foot by two
foot oak table was stolen
from the first floor lounge
of Rumsey Mouse. The theft
occurred sometime between
last Friday night and Satur-
day morning. The tahle cost
approximately $300.
Pricey audio
items missing
WHERE: Duderstadt Bluilding
WHEN: Wednesday around
WHAT: A black and sil-
ver iPod video, a hlack iPod
touch and an audio headset
that heleng to Digital Media
Department were reported
missing. Do total the items cost
$530. There are no suspects.

Talk about
Audubon book
WHAT: The University's
Senior Paper Conservator,
Cathleen A. uaker, PhD, will
discuss John Jamens Audu-
bon's hook, "The Birds of
America."
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today from non to
1 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
Exhibition on
black holes
WHAT: An exhibition
exploring the existence of
black holes in our galaxy.
tt's part of a series celebrat-
ing the Iternational Year of
Astronomy 2009.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Tonight at 7:310 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1800, Chem-
istry Building

History ofwine
inAmnerica
WHAT: An exhibition fea-
turinghbooks and ephemera
that define the history of
American wine making.
WHO: Arts At Michigan
WHEN: Today from 1 p.mn. to
4:45 p.m.
WHERE: William Clements
Library
Earth exhibit
WHAT: A project that
combines science and art
to encourage participants
to reflect on and explore
humans' relationship with
the earth.
WHO: Arts ott Rarth
WHEN: Today from noon to
6 p.m.
WHERE: Media Union, Dud-
erstadt Center
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to corree-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1A 36-year-old man from
Detroit was shot after peeing
on the side of a fish market,
the Detroit Free Press reported.
The 69-year old owner spot-
ted the victim relieving himself
on his building anad shot him.
Afterwards the suspect took off
in a tan Lincoln.
2With a win over Ohio
State tonight, Michigan ice
hockey can secure at least a
third place finish in the Central
Collegiate Hockey Association.
OFOR MORESEE SPORTS, PAGED8
3 Bremen, Germany will
be the first city in the
country to use synthetic
DNA on jewelry to hunt down
thieves, the Berliner Morgen-
post reported. Bremen has the
highest per capita debt out of
any city in Germany. The city
also has a high instance of
"theft under aggravated cir-
cumstances."

14

14

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 20, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
NEW YORK
Dow ends at lowest
close since 2002
An important psychological bar-
rier gave way on Wall Street yester-
day as the Dow Jones industrials
fell to their lowest level in more
than six years.
The Dow broke through a bottom
reached in November, pulled down
by sharp declines in key financial
shares. It was the lowest ending for
the Dow since Oct. 9, 2002, when
the last bear market bottomed out.
The move below that level
dashed hopes that the doldrums of
November would mark the ending
point of a.long slump in the mar-
ket, which is now nearly halfway
below the peak levels reached in
October 2007.
The market's inability to rally
signals that investors see no imme-
diate end for the recession, which
is already 14 months old and one of
the most severe in decades. Inves-
tors also haven't been impressed
with two major economic initia-
tives from the Obama adminis-
tration this week, an economic
stimulus package and a mortgage
relief plan.
OTTAWA
Obama asks Canada
to come to its aid
in Afghanistan
President Barack Obama courted
warmer relations with America's
snowy northern neighbor yester-
day, declining to ask war-weary
Canada to do more in Afghanistan,
promising he won't allow a protec-
tionist creep into U.S. trade policy
and talking reassuringly around
thorny energy issues.
Obama-happy crowds cheered
Obama's seven-hour visit, his first
outside U.S. borders as president,
and he returned the compliment
with a quick stop at an indoor
market where he delighted shop-
keepers by picking up pastries and
souvenirs for his daughters.
"I love this country and think
that we could not have a better
friend and ally," Obama said as he
appeared side-by-side with Canadi-
an Prime Minister Stephen Harper
at gothic Parliament Hill. He later
slipped slightly as he walked to his
plane and joked that the weather
reminded him of Chicago.
SCARAMENTO, Calif.
Schwarzenegger
receives California
budgetbills
The California Legislature yes-
terday approved a plan to close a
$42 billion budget deficit after an
epic impasse that involved several
all-night sessions, sending Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger a package
of bills that raises taxes and cuts
spending. It was not immediately
clear when Schwarzenegger would
sign the bills.
During an afternoon news con-
ference, the Republican governor
praised the effort to forge a compro-
mise. Itrequired Democrats to back

away from their opposition to deep
spending cuts and some Republican
lawmakers toset aside their opposi-
tion to tax increases.
He called the Legislature's work,
after a grueling week of late-night
sessions, courageous.
CHICAGO
Black pastors to
ask Burris to resign
A group of black ministers who
supported U.S. Sen. Roland Bur-
ris as he fought to get his job now
plan to ask for his resignation fol-
lowing revelations that he tried to
raise money for the disgraced gov-
ernor who appointed him, one of
the ministers told The Associated
Press yesterday.
Many of the city's influential
black pastors supported Burris
because of his scandal-free reputa-
tion - even though he was appoint-
ed by then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich
three weeks after the governor was
arrested for allegedly trying to sell
the Senate seat.
Now some of those pastors will
ask Burris to resign, according to
the minister, who spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because a meet-
ing with Burris had not yet been
scheduled.
Burris testified before an Illi-
nois House committee in January
that he hadn't had contact with
key Blagojevich staffers or offered
anything in return for the Senate
seat vacated by President Barack
Obama.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Regents approve
$13 million in
new construction

By ERIK TORENBERG
For the Daily
At its monthly meeting yes-
terday, the University Board of
Regents approved four construc-
tion projects that will together
cost approximately $13 million.
The regents approved renova-
tions to the Residential College's
auditorium in
East Quadrangle NOTEBOOK
Residence Hall.
The renovation will update light-
ing, stage and seating areas, and
is expected to cost approximately
$2.1 million.
An additional $1.2 million was
given to update research labs in
the Environmental and Water
Resources Building. The Col-
lege of Rngineering will fund the
8,300-square-foot renovation.
The Regents also authorized
a $6.6 million plan to replace
600 feet of utility tunnels in the
northwest section of the Diag
and 125 feet of tunnels near
Lorch Hall.
The Regents also approved the
University of Michigan Health
System's plan to add a new cooling
tower and new piping and controls
for its chilled water expansion sys-
tem. The $3.25 million project will
help meet increased demand dur-
ing the summer months.

$320 MILLION
COMMUNITY BENEFIT PACKAGE
Douglas Strong, director and
CEO of University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers,
updated the regents on UMHS's
community involvement.
Strong said he estimates that
UMHS's spent more than $320
million in 2008 to benefit the com-
munity. Of the estimated $323
million, $170 million is credited
for uncompensated direct patient
care, $11 million for community
health programs and $142 million
for research.
Strong said UMHS was voted
the best large hospital overall in
Michigan by patients. The hospi-
tal sees approximately 300,000
different patients each year and
received about $340 million
in federal research money last
year.
Strong closed by saying that
despite the current economic situ-
ation, UMHS is increasing its com-
munity outreach.
"It is increasingly difficult in
this economic environment to
provide the level of benefit to the
community that it needs," he said.
"Amidst all of our other demands,
we have significantly expanded
our commitment to community
benefit in recent years."
. See CONSTRUCTION, Page 7

ARIELiBOND/Daily
Mary Sue Coleman listens as The Student Sustainability Initiative and the Student Veterans of America both addressed the
Board of Regents during the regents' monthly meeting in the Fleming Administration Building yesterday.
u dents lobby 'U' for
more veterans benefits

ii

Two
from a
advoca
the Un
yesterc
an-frie
to mak
attend
The
resenti
of Am
the Br
in-stat
waive
ans, ex
for dei
acaden
trainin
armed
LSA

Group asks for founded the Student Veterans of
America, told the regents that by
n-state tuition charging all veterans the in-state
tuition rate - regardless of resi-
for veterans dency - that the University could
attract more highly qualified vet-
By KYLE SWANSON erans. The 21st Century GI Bill,
Daily StaffReporter which will take affect in 2009,
will cover the full cost of in-state
University students tuition for veterans and provide a
national student veterans housing stipend.
cy organization urged Blumke also said the University
riversity Board of Regents should create an extended admis-
day to adopt more veter- sion application deadline for vet-
ndly policies in an effort erans returning from deployment
ke it easier for veterans to to accommodate their needs. He
the University. talked about some potential stu-
two student-veterans, rep- dents who may be deployed at the
ing the Student Veterans time applications are due but hope
erica organization, asked to enroll the following semester.
oard of Regents to offer By waiving the application fee,
e tuition to all veterans, Blumke said the University could
application fees for veter- encourage more veterans to apply.
:tend application deadlines He said that the University has
ployed soldiers and award the second lowest veteran enroll-
mic credit for specialized ment in the Big Ten, with only 48
ig received while in the veterans enrolled in 2007. Ohio
forces. State University had 598 veterans
junior Derek Blumke, who enrolled in 2007.

Blumke also urged the regents
to consider allowing student-vet-
erans to receive academic transfer
credit for advanced training that
has an equivalent at the Univer-
sity level. If approved, veterans
may qualify for transfer credit
for training in topics like foreign
languages and engineering.
LSA senior Carl Ireland, the
Michigan legislative director for
the Student Veterans of America,
also spoke before the regents on
the issue, telling the board that
when he enrolled, the GI bill only
covered $11,000 of tuition costs.
"As you guys can put together
pretty quickly I'm under a moun-
tain of debt right now," he said.
Ireland added that by offering
in-state tuition to out-of-state
veterans, the University would
receive full tuition payment from
the federal government while not
having to offer any financial aid
or scholarships.
-Erik Torenberg
contributed to this report.

Stimulus package may provide
Mich. $2.5B in education funds

U.S. Education Dept.
money would make
up for expected cuts
LANSING, Mich. (AP) -
Michigan's K-12 schools probably
don't have to worry about losing
$59 per pupil in the fiscal year
that begins Oct. 1.
Gov. Jennifer Granholm said
yesterday that money from the
federal stimulus plan should
make up for any cut in per-pupil
aid she's proposing for the next
school year. That move could
be outlined in a supplemental
budget bill Granholm expects to
submit next month to the state
Legislature.
The U.S. Department of Edu-
cation estimated yesterday that
Michigan will get about $2.5 bil-
lion for schools from the stimulus
package over a two-year period.
Nearly $1.6 billion would come
in state fiscal stabilization funds
designed to prevent budget cuts.
"We will submit a supple-
mental that makes the schools
whole," Granholm told reporters
Thursday.
Stimulus money also could
lessen the need for a proposed

3 percert budget cut for state
universities. But Granholm still
wants the schools to pledge to
freeze tuition in exchange for
avoiding a smaller appropriation.
That stance could be subject to
a legal debate.
Gary Olson, director of the
nonpartisan Senate Fiscal Agency,
said Thursday the federal stimu-
lus measure won't allow the state
to cut money going to K-12 schools
and universitiesnext fiscal year.
Granholm released her bud-
get proposal last week, before
President Barack Obama signed
the stimulus package into law on
Tuesday. The Democratic gover-
nor did not take the stimulus cash
into account when proposing her
education budget, although she
did count in additional federal aid
for Medicaid health coverage.
K-12 school districts are get-
ting at least $7,316 per student
this fiscal year.
Granholm said Thursday any
cut in per-pupil money would be
reimbursed through the stimulus
package.
Granholm spokeswoman Liz
Boyd said the administration will
"stand firm" on its decision to cut
the foundation grant, but noted
the cut would be more than offset

by stimulus money for education,
just not within the foundation
budget line itself.
- Schools are set to get more fed-
eral dollars through the stimulus
package for programs such as
Title I, which gives schools extra
money to help low-income stu-
dents, and for special education.
Those extra funds - along
with money schools could get
from budget stabilization dollars
in the stimulus package - means
most school districts would be
able to overcome any cut in the
per-pupil dollars from the state.
But funding schools that way
could have implications forschool
budgets ina couple of years, when
the stimulus money runs out.
School funding would be starting
from a lower per-pupil allowance
level that it would otherwise.
Granholm warned education
officials at K-12 schools and uni-
versities to be looking now for
ways to save.
"We have to take a two-year
look at this, because the stimulus
money is going to be gone next
year," Granholm said. "This is an
opportunity for them to take this
year and do everything they can
to tighten their belt in prepara-
tion for next year."

University Prof. John U. Bacon was surprised yesterday when he received the news
that he is this year's recipient of The Golden Apple Award.
WANT TO DESIGN FLASH
GRAPHICS FOR THE DAILY?
E-MAIL
GRACA@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
F RIDAYS
Domestic Bottles are only
go #g 10- mss
I 0
95 3
18
3 4 7 8
2 1 8 5
6 5 7
5 1 7 1-2 -1 4 3
79 5 8.
k 4i 1 8s

Clyburn: Opposition to
the stimulus is slap in face

U.S. Rep. insulted
by govs who may not
accept stimulus
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) - The
highest-ranking black congress-
man said yesterday that opposition
to the federal stimulus package by
southern GOP governors is "a slap
in the face of African-Americans."
U.S. Rep. James Clyburn,
D-S.C., said he was insulted when
the governors of Texas, Louisiana,

Mississippi and his home state,
which have large black popula-
tions, said they might not accept
some of the money from the $787
billion stimulus package.
Texas Gov. Rick Perry said
Wednesday he would accept
the money, and none of the oth-
ers has rejected it outright. The
Republican governors of Idaho
and Alaska also said they had
reservations about whether the
money would come with too many
strings attached, but Clyburn said
he was particularly taken aback

by southern governors who said
they might decline it.
"These four governors repre-
sent states that are in the prover-
bial black belt," Clyburn said.
A spokesman for South Caro-
lina Gov. Mark Sanford accused
Clyburn of playing the race card.
"Spending money at the federal
level that we do not have repre-
sents a future tax increase on all
South Carolinians, regardless of
their color," Sanford spokesman
Joel Sawyer said in an e-mail
statement.

(


4 - Friday, February 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU.

C74C fivlcht*gan,43at"*lV

BELLA SHAH

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@uinich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
)TORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
Breaking with tradition
'U' should schedule break during same time as other schools
n this bitterly cold last week of February, many students have
frostbite-induced fantasies of lounging poolside and drinking
daiquiris on an island. Preferably, the island is located some-
where that actually receives warmth from the sun. But in the current
economic crisis, dreams of 98-degree bliss are difficult to translate
into reality. Many of the University's fiscally responsible students
have no choice but to spend spring break coping with the cold in
the comfort (or claustrophobia) of their parents' homes, without
the company of friends from other colleges who have later spring
breaks. The University needs to bring its break in line with other
schools so that Michigan students can share their spring experienc-
es with people from other colleges.

%o~ S~x\RN
. .. :.$

4

4

4

Technology overload

The University schedules spring break
in late February because it functions on a
trimester system - fall, winter and sum-
mer. That means each semester is about 14
weeks long. So when the University sets
up the schedule for the year, it slaps spring
break at the seven-week mark, slicing the
semester into two neat halves. But since a
lot of other colleges schedule their spring
breaks further into the semester, Univer-
sity students face a spring break void of
buddies from high school who are still in
class for another week or two. And even
though the academic calendar is scheduled
years in advance, the University needs to
consider pushing back spring break so that
students stop missing out on visits with
hometown friends.
Even those who are lucky enough to trav-
el or participate in an alternative spring
break program are missing out, because'
they lose the opportunity to mingle with
students from other schools. This is disap-
pointing, because meeting college students
from outside of Michigan is an enriching
life experience that can be both lots of fun

and very educational. Keeping spring break
in the middle of the semester greatly reduc-
es the odds of having such experiences.
Of course, staying at home can be even
worse. For in-state students - about two-
thirds of the University's student body
- spring break at home feels more like a
seven-day exile to the ice planet of Hoth.
It would be nice to have spring break a
few weeks later when it's a little warmer
outside, so that even if students can't go to
Mexico, they won't need to wear parkas.
Whether from Michigan or out-of-state,
students who have to go home just can't look
forward to catching up with old friends at
home or meeting new friends abroad. Stu-
dents at home are condemned to pass the
time by enduring a week's worth of MTV
Spring Break reruns dating back to 2003.
But that's not to say there's nothing worth-
while for Michigan residents to do during
spring break if they can't make the jour-
ney to Cancun or meet up with high school
friends in their hometowns. There's always
ice fishing. Or snowshoeing. Or - our per-
sonal favorite - igloo building.

Don't think I don't know what's
in your hand right now. No,
not the newspaper, your
other hand. Yes, the
BlackBerry. Put it
down for just a sec-
ond. No, you can't
check your email
right now. If anyone
isstillaroundbefore
spring break, I like
to take the time to
talk about some-BEN
thing other than
my usual praise of CALECA
technology. Our-
reliance on technol-
ogy, while wonderful for productivity
and convenience also includes the risk
of glossing over details of what were
once much more rigorous tasks.
When you're off onyour vacations to
exotic (or perhaps not so exotic) plac-
es to rest and recover from midterms,
you might get in touch with friends
who are spread out for break or per-
haps old friends from high school in
other colleges. Sometimes, it's worth
the extra effort to give your friends a
call or write a letter instead of instant
messaging or text messaging.
Studies on electronic conversa-
tions show that the subtleties of into-
nations, body language and volume
are often lost and people are more
prone to making false conclusions
about those they speak with. People
adopt more flexible personalities.
They have lower inhibitions and are
less polite. Without having to face
the person you talk to, it is much eas-
ier to be the person you choose to be
instead of being yourself.
It's saddening to see people cling
to their computers instead of actu-
ally interact. When people complain

about lack of wireless service in the
middle of the Diag or in the hallways
of a dorm, it makes me wonder how
much reliance there is on being con-
nected. How badly you do you need
to work on your laptop outside or in
a hallway? Are we so desperate to
stay plugged in that we cannot stand
a single open space not permeated by
electronic signals?
There are repercussions in the
workplace, too. If you've had an
office job, you've likely watched peo-
ple sitting ten feet from each other
exchange phone calls and e-mails.
There is something to be said for
face-to-face contact instead of send-
ing an impersonal message that is lost
in a deluge of e-mails.
There is more to this than just los-
ing some of the finer points of social
interaction. As the old adage goes,
"garbage in, garbage out." Often, the
false confidence we place in technol-
ogy dooms us to failure because we
let a piece of technology "think" for
us. The recent economic downturn is
one example.
As pundits, politicians and econo-
mists perform an autopsy on the cur-
rent economic collapse, there has been
a growing sense that computer models
assessing the risk of investments were
partly to blame. With a rise in com-
puter power, investment firms hired
programmers, mathematicians and
physicists to create software intended
to "beat the market" and predict gen-
eral trends to make smarter invest-
ments for higher returns.
Of course, like many technolo-
gies, confidence in the models led
to an overreliance on the new tools
investors had, and many used faulty
assumptions or incomplete data to
try and predict the market. The result

was the eventual collapse of complex
chains ofinvestment based on improp-
erly used financial models. Physicist
Emanuel Derman, hired by Goldman
Sachs to create some of these mod-
els, explained that they were a "tool
of enthusiasm" and encouraged more
risky investments rather than directly
causing the crisis.
Unplugging your
PC and reentering
the real world.
As an engineering student, it's
much easier to see these kinds of fail-
ures in classes. It's not uncommon for
students who can use computer-aided
design systems or analytical programs
to forget the fundamentals of the cal-
culations behind them. If you do all
of your homework with the help of a
computer, a midterm withjust a calcu-
lator at your disposal may seem amore
daunting task than it should.
Connectivity, ease of computa-
tion and collection of data have made
people quick to extol the wonders of
science. That being said, it's worth
taking the time to not become a slave
to the technology we hold so dear. 4
Even taking notes by hand can be
more conducive to understanding and
learning than diligently transcribing
a professor's lecture. So please, do me
a favor - hell, humor me and say it's
to save battery power - put down the
electronics and live a little more.
- Ben Caleca can be reached
at calecab@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
FAHAD FARUQI
Focus on facts, not feelings

For weeks, students and alumni have riddled
the Daily's opinion section with perspectives
on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Although
the dynamic dialogue between pro-Israeli
and pro-Palestinian groups on campus serves
a constructive and important role in under-
standing and perhaps contributing to a solu-
tion to the conflict, both sides too often repeat
talking points and mold the facts around their
own ideology.
A good example of this occurred in a Letter
to the Editor by Dan Shuster (UPZ ignores Isra-
el's need to defend its own existence, 2/16/2009).
Shuster states, either by mistake or on purpose,
that Palestinians elected Hamas to launch
rockets into Israel. Almost any scholar of the
situation in the Middle East would take excep-
tion with that view. Palestinians elected Hamas
because they did not trust the infamously cor-
rupt Fatah government. Palestinians' grow-
ing frustration at Fatah's inability to move
the peace process forward and the economic
circumstances under which Palestinians lived
created momentum for Hamas. Additionally,
Hamas moderated its stance on manv issues to
gain supportin theelections.
Likewise, in the recent Israeli elections, the
citizens of the Jewish state did not vote to kill
Palestinians and continue the occupation of
Gaza and the West Bank. Israelis, growing frus-
trated at the incumbent party's inability to deal
with Hamas and rejuvenate the peace process,
decided to give more power to right-wing par-
ties that promised security.
When we hear phrases such as "Israel has a
right to defend itself" and "Palestinians have a
right to resist the occupation," we learn noth-
ing. And repeating those talking points does a
disservice to the cause. The arguments against
Israel's actions in Gaza do not pertain to wheth-
er Israel has a right to defend itself - which it
does. The arguments speak to the question ofE
whether Israel's actions were in the name of
defense or oppression.
This logic also applies to pro-Palestinians.
The arguments against Hamas' actions do
not have to do with whether or not Palestin-
lans deserve a sovereign state free from the
influence of Israel's military. The arguments
address Hamas' anti-Semitism and targeting of
Israeli civilians.
But pro-Palestinian groups and individu-
als are too often labeled as anti-Semitic merely
because they are critical of Israel's policies and
motivations. This marginalization and name-
calling must stop. It is dishonest to say that
someone who has legitimate criticisms about

Israel's policies is anti-Semitic. The difference
is clear - believing that the Palestinians live in
an apartheid regime under Israeli.occupation is
not anti-Semitic. Believing that there is some-
thing inherently wrong with Judaism and Jew-
ish people is.
Pro-Palestinian groups must also recognize
that resistance to the occupation does notjustify
Hamas' targeting of civilians. Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. did not lead the civil rights movement
with guns. Gandhi did not lead his movement
to free India through the use of violence. Nel-
son Mandela did not target civilians even during
the most militant years of his movement to resist
apartheid in South Africa.
Whether the Israeli regime established in
the occupied territories is comparable to apart-
heid, however, is a matter of contention. Many
of Israel's policies in the Palestinian territo-
ries mimic those of the former South African
regime. These policies include separate high-
ways for Palestinians and Israelis, banning of
Palestinians born in Jerusalem to visit Jeru-
salem without a permit, regular checkpoints
(many of which are not necessary for security)
forced occupation of civilian homes, illegal
building of Jewish settlements in Palestin-
ian territories and blockage of non-military
humanitarian aid in Gaza.
On the Palestinian side, continued rocket
attacks on Israeli towns, refusal by Hamas to
recognize Israelis' right to exist, Hamas lead-
ership's unapologetic anti-Semitism and cor-
ruption in the ranks of the Fatah party make it
difficult to believe that a Palestinian state could
peacefully exist alongside Israel.
I encourage both sides to shed their ideologi-
cal bubble and look at the facts. It is often dif-
ficult to separate emotions from the realities
on the ground. No doubt, I have probably made
some ideological arguments in this viewpoint.
But I am willing to reflect and change my per-
spective if presented with facts. I hope the same
can be said for the students on campus that care
deeply about this issue but tend, to just think
with their emotions.
I am assuming both sides can agree that a
two-state solution is the only just and viable
solution to the conflict; this is my only ideologi-
cal assumption. If both sides cannot agree to that
much, especially in the intellectual ranks of aca-
demia here at the University, then perhaps the
peace process is doomed and the final outcome
of the conflict will leave yet another black mark
in the history of human civilization.
Fahad Faruqi is an LSA senior.

Crossing racial boundaries

n the past few months, I have
addressed issues that stifle the
civil rights progress of the black
community:sthe
shortcomings of
affirmative action,
the resurgence of
a 'hip-hop' cul-
ture, the deafening
silence around rep- t
arations and police
brutality. But today,
I want to take a look
at a few white lead- MATTHEW
ers throughout his- HUNTER
tory who, despite
criticism from
their own commu-
nity, have contributed to the progress
of the black community by fight-
ing against racial injustice. Indeed,
because of these whites, African-
Americans have seen measures of
racial progress. Naming every white
person who falls in this category may
be impractical, so I have compiled
a list of whites who should be rec-
ognized for certain deeds that have
helped African-Americans in their
struggle for equality.
While most presidents' commit-
ments to civil rights were question-
able, John F. Kennedy's actions
showed a lifetime commitment to
helping oppressed communities. In
1962, Kennedy issued an executive
order that required federal agencies
to "take all necessary and appropri-
ate action to prevent discrimination."
It was the first explicit statement of
a national policy against residential
segregation. This preceded the intro-
duction of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
that outlawed racial segregation in
public places and employment.
And as presidents go, Gerald Ford
can't be excluded from the list. He
showed his commitment to affirma-
tive action at his alma mater, the
University of Michigan. As explained
in the 2006 New York Times article
"Gerald Ford's Affirmative Action,"

Ford's commitment and influence in
the Supreme Court rulingthat upheld
the University's affirmative action
program in 2003 may have been the
"most influential amicus brief in
the history of the Supreme Court."
Opposing most of his Republican ilk,
Ford argued that losing affirmative
action would force "future college
students to suffer the cultural and
social impoverishment that afflicted
my generation."
But Ford's significant impact on
affirmative action pales in comparison
to the sentiments of political activist
and writer Tim Wise. Wise has com-
mitted his professional life to educat-
ing Americans about modern racism,
white privilege and civil rights injus-
tices. His articulate and militant debate
stylebaffles hisopponents. He has fully
acknowledged his natural position of
white privilege in his book, "White
Like Me." In this book, he makes the
claim that "the denial of racism is a
form of racism itself." His most recent
book, "Between Barack and a Hard
Place: Racism and White Denial in the
Age of Obama," questions the claim by
many whites that Obama's rise signi-
fies the end of racism as a pervasive
social force. Wise gets major kudos in
my book.
Michael Moore is a slightly more
powerful media force than Wise, but
theirideashave manyparallels. In 1999,
as unarmed Amadou Diallo reachedfor
his wallet, the police said they thought
it was a gun and shot 41 bullets at him.
Moore documented the incident in
2000 in an episode of his television
program, "The Awful Truth," where
Moore responded by exclaiming,
"Attention, the New York City police
have a difficult time distinguishing
between a gun and a wallet." He pro-
ceeded to create an African-American
Wallet Exchange stand, where people
could exchange their dark wallets for
bright orange ones. Michael Moore
deserves recognition since he has
been active in opposing racial injustice

against blacks.
Many more whites have been rec-
ognized in works like the 2003 book
"White Men Challenging Racism,"
where authors Cooper Thompson,
Emmet Schaefer. and Harry Brod
document cases of white people who
have committed their lives to fight-
ing against black oppression. Many
white women have undoubtedly also 4
been committed to racial equality.
Nadine Strossen and Susan Herman,
the former and current president of
the American Civil Liberties Union,
have each fought on the front lines
for racial justice.
Recognizing
the whites who
fought for blacks.
Eachofthese deeds have contribut-
ed to combating injustices and helped
keep the conversation of race alive.
They speak to the important reality of
any civil rights struggle that for prog-
ress to occur, the conversation of jus-
tice must go beyond dialogue within
the oppressed group. If the goal is in
fact to reach a "post-racial" era, then
each person must act against the bur-
den oppression sitting heavy on the
shoulders of whites and blacks alike.
As African-American activist Marian
Edelman said, "We must not, in try- 4
ing to think about how we can Hake a
big difference, ignore the small daily
differences we can make which, over
time, add up to big differences that
we often cannot foresee." If every
white person in America committed
themselves to just one deed toward
ending black oppression, the changes 4
could be extraordinary.
- Matthew Hunter can be
reached at majjam@umich.edu.

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com FiaFbur 0 09-

Friday, February 20, 2009 -5

HBO gets 'Down'

By MARK SCHULTZ
Daily Arts Writer
"Sure, I've been called a xenophobe. But
the truth is I'm nut. I honestly just feel that
America's the best cnuntry

and all the other countries
aren't as gond."
This sentiment is
uttered nut by Dubya,
or even Naylin Palmn,
bat defamed pitcher
Kenny Powers (Danny R.
McBride, "Tropic Thun-

Eastbound
and Down
Sundays at
10:30 p.m.
HBO

"Nabody touches my Seedish Fish.
Kids out for blood

der"). o
Powers is the fictinnal
prntagonist (used in the lonsest sense pns-
sible) of HBO's new series "Easthound and
Dusvn." Flluwing a rickety steruid and coke-
fuseled descent duwin professional baseball's
ladder, Puwers lands hack in Scutts Hill, N.C.
Scotts Hill is the kind uf town that names its
middle school after Jeffersun Davis. Princi-
pal Terrence Cutler (a funny Andrew Daly,
"MADtv"), who is engaged to Puwers's old
girlfriend April (Katy Mixon, "Four Christ-
mases"), uffers bun a job teaching middle-
schooul gym class.
McBride play's Puwers w ith the samse
Southern-drawled hostility he harnessed
in the 2006 indie fins "The Fuot Fist Way."
("Punt Fist" asnd "Eastbound" were both
penned hy McBride, Judy Hill and Ben
Best and directed by Hill.) Like that film's
Fred Sismmons, Psswers is ass egumaniac
with severe anger prublenms and delessiuns
of grandeur. Puwers lnoks inure ridicusinus
than Sismuoss he spurts a greasy mullet, a
heer gut and a narrnw-eyed glare he directs
at anynelinc seets.
'Pu call Puswers offensive isn't really get-
ting at his cure. His brand uf prufane self-
aggrandizement is at least three shades mute
abasisng thn Will Ferrell's Rnsn Burgundy.
Dser disnner with his hrother Dustin (John
Hasskes)asnd Dustin's childresn, Puwers
discussses "heating up retards," sesmingly
usnasware that ssomecpenple find such a stsjecct
inapprupriate dinner cuonversatiosn. Whesn
Poswers catches his yosung nephew riding his
jet-ski, he throws the bssy uff.
Pouwers is palatable as a lead because of the

brief musments he lets the viewer into his pri-
vate hell. After insulting his niece Ruse dur-
ing dinner- "who names a ftscking kid after
Titanic'?" -Puwers slumaps int the guest
roum and cries himself tu sleep. After huwl-
ing four-letter wnrds at his nephesv, Puw-
ers admits be has ass anger prublem. These
scenes establisha that sume part sof Puovers is
aware buss ridiculous he is. Still, the comc-
die appeal uf "Eastbound" rests on Psswers's
cuntinued ublivion to his uwn fully. If these
mnoments uf self-realization start to over-
whelm the real funny stuff- like, fosr exam-
ple, Puwers riding un a jet-ski in jean shurts
(jean shorts?!)- the shnw will becsomectsu
doughy and sentsmental. But viewers osf
"Fuot Fist" will tell you that McBride and
Cu. always ladle a bowlful uf crass Bar each
dash of heart.
It's tempting to ensmpare McBride tu
Ferrell, especially because Ferrell is une
uf "Eastbound"s executive proucers, and
will guest star in several episudes. But there
exists in McBride's portrayal uf Puwers a
gritty authenticity that Ferrell nften lacks.
Kenny Powers:
total douchebag.
Maybe it's becatsse McBride is such a
newcomer. Befure develuping the Burgundy
and Bush characters that wnuld becume his
trademarks, Ferrell was best knuwn fur pur-
traying a dweeby cheerleader nn "SNL." Fer-
rell's truse persunality always seemed cluser
to that character, and his inure deranged
perforsmances came uff as slight caricatsures.
Cunversely, McBride seems to embody Puw-
ers with ease, like he already had one fusst in
the redneck pool befnre being asked enosvims.
What McBride brings to the redneck arche-
type is a sense ofausthenticity.
In fact, "Eastound" is delightfully blue-
cullar, and not in the patrunizing Jeff Fox-
wurthy way. Pnwers hasngs nest in dirty bars,
drinks cheap beer, wurks a jub he hates and
cunsiders a jet-ski snme sure uf lavish party
toy. These days, maybe we've all gsst a little
Kensny Puwers in us.

Swedish horror import
succeeds with scares but
overdoes the artistry
By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Filss Editor
"Let the Right One In" is a true hor-
ror film - the kind that
uses careful pluteing * *
and stage direction en
elicit scares without et h i
resumting en throw- Leth III
ing randuin images at One In
the screen fur cheap At the Michigan
screams. Truly hurri- Thae
fying films, like "The Thae
Silence of the Lambs" Magnet Releasing
or "Pan's Labyrinth,"
don't come alung tno
often, so despite the fact that this sane is
slightly flawed, its very release should
still be cause fur celebratiuss. T'he smovie
was made in Sweden, and in fuolsows the
trend uf recent nntewssrthy foreign films
being ruled isneligible fur a Best Foreign
Language Film Oscar nnominations- so it
mustebe guod. (Sweden submitted a differ-
ent filn fur consideratiun in the category,
and unly one submsissioss is aluowed per
country.)
The muvie flluws a shy, troubled
12-year ld kid named O~skar (newcusmer
Rare Hedebrant), whuse crispy blosnd hair
and bizarre obsessiusn with death snake

his-s the perfect target fur schsosl busllies.
He has en suffer thsrough physical asnd ver-
hal abesse every day befonrc trudgisng homsae
in thick ssnows,swhere liefnc sdles a ksnife
asnd dreassof revesnge svithsissele safety
ofbhis apartesntss.
Whnile ihc gucsntsrousghs these daily'
indignaities, a sew girl snamsed Eli (ness-
cosmar Lisna Leasnecrssns, with a deep,
post-dsubed avnice) smaoaes inss the apart-
maesnt next dososr. Eli seesastunusally' acrs-
banic fnr assadlescesst girl, asnd sineonsly
leaves her housese at nightn, sat it's snosustr-
prise wrhensh ie stares feastnsg sasshassns
blsaoe. The girl nayhsav'c a swveet iperson-
ality, btst sine's alsoa a vamnpire.
A hbsrgesssisng roanssce deielasps
betweesa tineeave, evess as isncreasnsgly
grusomsne sampnire killisngs taine place.
Directoar ToasAlXfredsonss(varioues BSwed-
ish 'TV shos)vnworks iss a style thatemplaoys
mansy extremae close-esps of faces, boadies
and eobjects fromsn all edifferenan'sges, andt
the kids dna a remaarknable jobincevcn at suca
rinse edistanace teatine camsera. Alfredson
also smakes great nusesf tewaisntertimse
setiang by' staginag mstaseneses undster ass
ever-presesst snnwfall. Thacomled is palpable
in every' scesse, and masayIncesnatagin tea nake
the audiessce shisver (oaanaybin it wnas jesse
the nattural chill isatine Michnigans Theater
screesninag roomss). In say's somasehinag abinuta
the sesstaissed toeansof else filam that else sighne
oaf vamnpires in gooefy Europeansswsuaters
dosessntireak tine tensiaos.
Yet "Let else Rightinttse In" is somsentismes
a binttooinerestedi in its 'owna cineantic

style. Tine filmss occasionsally staffers froma
Art Houe Synsdromse, swhere tine chnarac-
ters teand to speak ian naltinag pattecrns anad
every wnrd saf dialoagehIas a secret ended
menacsing. Thney somsaetimses act at righst
asngles enoavhat noarmnal ineuple avouesd do
isa thneir Situsatinjuttensdrawsatateantin
en suonne aspect saf tine filmnmsakiang: Whecn
a msaan sees his girlfrieandl attaceked by'an
vamapire, Inc hesitates foar seaveral secondas
bnefosre russinag eta necrescus.ae, saselsoe
audlience can take tine timeatoenotnice nann
-exqusisitely thsis pnartictlar shots is framased.
'Tan Inc fair, it's framsetd rathner ascii,sban
thnat's besaie tine point.
Alfreadsona nd se screenwariter Johna
Ajvide Lindqivist, adasptinagIsis san novasel,
alsna fonlow as rathler masoschintic tradli-
tin in Swvedish' filssosf puttnsg cate kids
isa consniderabnle asmortal peril. 'lie a'oung
eases ian laganar Bergasaan's "Fasnany aand
Alexanader" were connstasntly targeted
asnd mnasniatedlly' their schsemsing stein
fathner, and acre little tiskar is aset withn
siscretasiang)},avaolenstand hstaile treaatmneant
fro ua lbtieis. "Are tssuipsed to juast lee
imn stande there?" onec of temssays antasne
paine, as elthgh Oskar's very' existeance is
a ineunishnaleffense.
Anid evens Eli theineasspire envskes symas-
inathnynahean eane uf tineiereavetd collies
looakiangtsar serdeuriang watsemnayinc tine
mstn ai-bitnsgly terrifyisng climsax isa
recenst years. Thieampact anthtie amnovie will
depennese aswhsether tine viewaeccfBnds ins
treantnene tftine twaayaousthfeul leads tan be
effective sac sane creepy. Maybne it's bnothn.

Making explosions suck

Disney misfires with Stone

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
The premise uf Disney XI)'s "Aaron
Stone" is a gamer's wet

dream. Imagine haviang
all the special abilities
and gear of the charac-
ters in a popular video
game and using them
to save the world. On
Friday, Feb. 12, Dis-
ney launched Disney
XD, which caters nsa

Aaron Stone
Fridays at
7 p.m.
Disnnny XD

teaboys resinond with a hissy fin, exclaim-n
ing "youescan't dtthis!" anad "that's sa notas
fair!" Somnsnase needs en tell thsese ids
aere in asn econosmissc recessioan sd ntney
need tan shst the ftuckn up.
Bueatee sno stabec-anad sash-
stanadard - aspect at "Aarons Stosne" is
isney's attemnpt tanisnegrate ecaonpnuter-
genserated aiaging intos the shnown.Tine
comsnptaer-geserated video gamae foaotage
as incredibnly isaac. Vshile tepiroaductiosn
timse for televisiosn anighe net alisaw dcvcl-
opiers en create state-of-ne-arn grapnhics,
else video gamase in "Ansaon Stonae" takies
up musechsosathtie shoaw, andel ele prodeucer's
shoueld've laueasmare eiffort instaathsat essess-
tial draw. -
i's net onaly tine shoddley inmaginag that
ruains tine ilieusions andl gives nine shosw a
moasre kid-orientedelfeeliangethanasnacres-
sary. Th'ouaghs "AaronsStonse" counldl save
paotenially apipiealed o ldeaeer adieasces,
certaian elemnents sake inIhardl toaforget
thsat this is a lid's shoaw. 'Caktiang as vil-
lains namasedel ajacier (Ha Choawn, "Mas

at tine Year") serioutsly minvers ditficutl,
andae intrealistic techlosagyInceses
eundeermnines eensass eightn-near-aoladlbay'
iantelligeance.
Disney tries to lure
young boys with
video games.
Still, tine raw cools fasctoarsat "Aaaraoa
Stoalle" Seurpasses that atfany aoacin Dis-
nsey shownursreatly airiang. Tine staory is
remsiniscesnt f aid iDisey'favorite, "'tne
Famousaealet Jackason,"avhichinsn'tsuser-
inising since else shosas h iare ass exerts-
ice isroduecer. It sas Iseens a laang tiame
ssncecisneyipraoduecedl anythnagas gnatd
as "Jets Jaacktsaon,"met withsasoe isaard
woarkt"Aaraon Stne" coauld el saust tine
revival Disaaey aceds.

By BRIGID KILCOIN
For nhc Daily
Withs crumbsiling towers, giant nmetal
cranses beinsg blowanste
smnithecreenss anad 10-stoary *
buildinagsntoppiing en thne
graousnd, the apnaing creel- The
ins of "The Detonators" arc
far assre interesting' thans Detonators
the actual shouw. Wednesdays
Each episode of "Tine at 8 p.m.
D~etaanators" foalow's waorkiscvr
crew's in several locations Bcnn
as they prepare tan demoulishs
structeures eusinag explonsives. Smts of asess in
flurescent vests tapiang dyamsite en abans-
doeiu d builtdings are interspersed with explo-
sives experts -iDr. Bradean Lusk andi Dr. Paul
Worsey- performnagcexperimnents in an nut-
door cenginseeriang lab en demsstate the the-
ary af hownairoglycerins placemntsaffects
hoa uieickly a buidinsg is demosalishsed.
Let's face it: Masse peopple tunaing in en
watch "Detoanators" arc doing so en see
thsings blowa up. This menas tine show has en
create a ibackstory isnerestinsgcsu enouhu hld
as venwe's attesntiansfur nearly assneor, sinsce
tine edestructionssof a bueildiang takes place ian
roueghsly 10 secosnds. As a resault, elemnats
oaf dramsa arc forced. Will fragmsesnsof tine
abnandaoned hotael in Bermnedas slide downs
a sill post-explosiuon, destroyinag the towns
beneath? Will a Texas lake lift bridge fall
forward, blockinsga shsipping channelWihile
saort of impoirtmants, these problems daon't snake
fur compelncling televisian. The contrivancec of
thnese obstacles is eunderscored my the fact
thnat nosthinsg ever seesasosago wronag.
A dearths of comanpelliang coanteantsn't the
only issue witin "Detoanators." Tine shown
doesa't save a pinnts- that makelas inteifficeult
en gee nvested is'.'The series presentes a loe of

infornmation ian a dry msater withaout a huean
angle. Dozens of workers and technicianas arc
present in each episode, bus few msake repeat
appearances or are interviewed on camecra.
Lusk and Worsey are blandly comspetent as
they talk abutethe complicated scientific
processes behind each project, bun there arc
no vivid characters that cassnsmaetechnsical
subjects like borehole placenmentscoena alive.
The show's heavy enspihasis onn-applied
science is dense, repetitive and unianterest-
ing. Who's interested in the physics behind
post-tenssion slabs or the atahemnatical
fornmula used en calculate tine shsape of the
wedge that msust be rmonsved frm a towaer
so dynanmite can be placed in icy Perhaps en
simaplify she often-conmplicated explanains
and comsputer sinmulations that are shown
or enosnake she show long esnough - she samec
graphics and concepts are repeated saver and
over in she course of a single episode. Eitiher
way, it's aannying.
Too much science,
not enough boom.
While there is undoubedly a comspelliang
way en presenst large-scale explosins and
delve into she lives of the people responssible
fur tihems, "Detonators" dosesn't Band it. Wile
tine show isna't offeansively bad, its atemanpts en
legitimsize watching things blow up by sum-
rundinag sisem with uninsecresting scicestific
explansatiuons ansd ipedestriansainterviews cre-
aces an uninaspired, ploddiang sour of pmo-
grammsinag. Televisiona is like demoulitins; a
spark is necessary fur anythiang tao happens.
The creators of "Tine Detonators" apparently
aren't aware of that fact.

the young male denmographic. D~isn
has unintentionally beean targeting pi
tegilfotologwt rgalike "Hannah Montana" and "That's
Raven." In an efface en wian back tine bu,
Disney has mlled nut "Aaroan Stosne."
Charlie Lanaders (Kelly Blate, "Pins
Night") is a typical Amnerican tecen w
loves his mum, Iis broteher anad playi
an online multi-player videao gamne call
"Hero Rising." Meuchstea Iis nmothse
chagrin, Charlie often forgoses tine
joys offered by a snore social sigh
schonl life, cihoosing en spend his
time playing -as Iis ins-gamea ava-
tar, Aaron Stone. in the premsiere,
he's mysteriously sumn edssatby
she game's creatoanad learass she
troth about"Heroa isiang" -it's
not just a gamea. Tine ploa tftine
game is real, anad Charlie, she
world's best player, maust becoease
a real-life Aarons Stosne anad save
she world.
of course, as in all Disnsey kiddy
shows, theme are extremsely notsice-
able holes, and the chsaracters'
ages differ greatly fromn the age sat
the actnrs. Watchinsgte20i-suase-
thing Blase play a high schoaoaler
can be distracting. Thonugh late's
acting is sunmewhat comeanndable,
is might have been wise toa choonse
a younger actor sea play the shoaw's
protagonist.
Also, Charlie and his broather
come off as complee brass. Whens
their mother explains that sine has
to rent out thseir deceased father's
home office enosnake ends meete,

Sn
tys,
ng
ed


- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROCESS"'
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
In residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
FRANCE
May 18 -June 12, 2009
Foam Weeks/Four Credits
Satisfies the LSA Creative Expression Reqairement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Taesday, February 17, :O0pm,Are & Architecture Bldg. Room 2216
Wednesday, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making creativity an integral part of students' lives and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/stadents
'Thi course is supportedbyhen U nivrstao cia n ' Mutmaaladinlinary Lear ngand TnTea hin ,g Iiataive



4 1

A


6- Friday, February 20, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

i

]

WlilsonWhite

..
N
N
N
r
"
"
"
N
"
N
"

"'aaaPARKING 2009-10*****

Great locations antd Rates!!
726 State Street
72t S. Farest
326 E. Madisan
5211 Packard
5tI E.Htoer
13211 5. UnIiversity
515 Lawrence
8t9 Brawn
fall taday .... 734-76t-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. mined. att
central camspus. 734-741-930111
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spaciausunfcurnislted twa bedraate.
C lase tn U/M catnptts. A/C, disht-
wsasher, laundcry, balcany. free parkittg.
Call 734-944-2405.
!'.!AWESOME!!'. 2 bdrm i-level w/
1.5 bath-. fttrniture & balcony. FREF
HG directs aiths DVR service & inter-
net inclttdcctw/ eacht apt. gamse ream,
fitntess raotm and tmtctt mare. 741-9310
wwa.annarbarapartrnents.ttet
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrtms. as law as $675 and 2 Bdrtas.
as law as $1210
Nat Matty Left! Act Naw befare
Spring Break and get ttese tens rates.
Incredible locatiatt! I & 2 bedrtoats
apts. (can live 2 ar 4 peaple) 715
Chttrchs St. & 721 Clhurchs St. - Arras
fraotsEast Qnad!!l
Beautiftt, spacious, quiet.Futrisshed/
unfurnishsed avail. Latundrv,
free parkinsg, free teat and twater, na
petsnstmakitng.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
far Babble: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE AteTS!!! 2 & 3
bdnns ftully fttrnished, lats at claset
space, garage pkg.,ItD Directsawitls
D3VR all ittcladed. (734)741-9300
waw.annarbarapartnents.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacioas retmadeled apt. weills refitn-
shted ltardwaad floar, ae kitcenseand
batb. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
a*aFOR SEPT. 2009 Leasenne
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt tsail. wats.jmsprap.cam 769-7025.

61 1CHURCH;
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
(upscale 5 bedroom
C urck! etj are
liwitj csssruti F ci5
bedroom, 25 bath
apsrarmrlta7 esw t//31
,tesc1snsties, Ili~i a
wraser in s _ t clit

it e
C 4)OWIOed and OVWO
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
wsnw.annarbora artrnents~
or Visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009

3 Bedrooms
720 West Wz
Went Side Har

***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available far tFall. Leiral Campus. 214
N. 1Tayer. Call 17341 657-209f6 or visit
ssas.as-liousiiig.cattt
*2 BED)ROOMS- Great caitptis act-
leanse 101 S . Flest. 526 & 917
Packard. 040 Tappant, 515 & 521 Wal-
Ot. All furttishied and inclstde teat, ea-
ter. and parkiing, sotme witht freawire-
less! cii .varsiiymanagement.ciia
17341 660-11011.
*3 BEDROOM AP'TSa
1346 Geddes & 331 Cathrerine:
IFllyfurnishted, parking, large bed-
rains great toshtare. 17341 668-1100.
eseevarsi tyissasageisteat.cam
I & 2 ldete. furti. apts. 4112 ill St. &
1313 S. State. Set. 09. 1Ldrs.. A/C.
seat, bee prkg. Call 734-904-6735.

find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor. Ml 48104 ,
734-761-2680
uw.aoniaersilytamers-micew
Univer1sity
"6-BEDROOM HOUSE'
331 Catberine: 2 futll kitchtens, 2 fttll
batss great far 6 0- peosple. Kerry-
losts i!Cliose t Dosnittn/iogerrnan'-
s& summtter tarn asirket! 1734) 660-
11001. isa i.varsilsiilate nes.ciii
*MAY - MAY 2 becrealti
331 Packard: Sunnsy apt. ontthle tap
fltirfar cotnsvertecd hiotse, large eat-it!
kitchen ss dishwsaslier, laimdry and
parking ioissite. 17341 b68- 1100.
wsass.sarsilymiaonageisesll.cisi
2 BtDRM AVAIL loll 119. lBe!t and wa-
ter lacl. Prkg. asail. Cinidi' access.
Loacated ois N. Slate. Caiterine aitd W.
ibSarts.$975-$15110. 734-996-1991.
F apiihanageiteist.coii
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
Iis inclitdes yostr teat. wsater fuirini-
tore, and FREE Internet!
5400) signipgbonssiisni ALL 2 Bedrisom
Dien!tsissslit in lie tBest Central
Camstts D eals!
Lie! $50111oniall Stay leases
This special wiill not 1last lang.whteit
thley're gone. liey're gonie!
Call itselBest at 734-76s1-260
Liliversilytisiers-illi.Cilsl
3 BD)RM. APTS. Fat sUI. $1625/ma.
Furn. heat/water ic. Ol site prkg. Fatll
09. peppsers properties. 810-31-0229.
3 OR 4 lsdriii. lhomsc,. cpdated. w
prkg., iialk t amilpuis. 734-649-7971.
4 BDIRM APT. asail. fall 119. 2 prkg
spaces asail. iin-site Itcdry. 524511-r-
elec. 321 S. tDivisioii. Call 734-996-
I99 o~air visit calspililatiagcieit.ctli
4 BDIRM. IHOUSEIfir fall: $2280:
715 McKinley;ilot at 911411(13.
4 BIEDROOM HOUSE Available F all
-1)9. 2 bathls, hardwoiodiloolitr. IFree lotus-
dry aisd parkiing. Near Yot Arena
$20111 call: 734-717-6913.
4-5 BD)RM I tistse. Near athletic coit-
Iles. 2 batli.A/CF.[dry, prkg,.fireplaice.
hsarcdwcoirc loolirs, lacmcA. $221111til.
Avail 09101/09. bfisl1333(it aolcrn

____________________ 911 Oakland (
401 EAST MADISON - NLW PRICE 11 il(
(!) en Brand New (!) apartmoents feattur-$18
log: 6 Bedrooms + Sttudy. 2.5 bath- 5 Bedrooms
reams, washer and dryer in nnit, and
alf street parkitsg, earner of Madison 611 Church (a
ansd Packard. Fleer plans available. 743 Packard (
$3,450/mosnth. Wilson White Manage- 016 Packart
torn! 734-995-9200 $2995
www.wilsenmhitemanageentt.cntm 1014 Vaughn
5 LG. BI)RMS. (5-7 persons). dining. 6 Bedrooms
2 kitcht. 2 bath. 2 sttudy, Free ldty. prkg.
$2950. incl. all ail~s 234-7172-2017. 921 Dewey
6 BD)RM. HOUSE jtust eff Packard. $3095.
Less thsan 7 mtin. walk to campus. 3 fell Stndios, 1, an
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg.,.lann- able! and so
dry, cable. 40" fat screen lv. and later- negotiable toe
net. $2800/ma. 734-320-1026. Managemnent'
6 BEDROOM HOUSE www.wilsonw
Huege muslti-tuse parking area campas el/wits,
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3400 717-2935 EFFICIENC'
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3 avail. Fall 09,
batls, 2 kitchenss, 6 prkg. spaces, paved Mast incl., I
drive and let. By Packard end Arch. prkg. avail. Fei
$3400 neg. plns titil. 734-996-1991. Visit CappaM,
7 BDRM. FALL 09. $10 Catherine. 3 FREE HEAT
hitch., 3 1/2 batten, A/C. 4 prkg. spaces, able far 3, pr
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th. fram SAB. $1.
$3595 neg. plns util. 734-996-1991.
904 S. FOREST 6 2. May 09. 4 large e
bdrins. 1350 Geddes far Fall 09. 1Large ;
honse. Ballsftilly furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parkineg avail. 734-475-2577. Tower1
ALLMAND PROPERTIESt '09 Ii:6c
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrin 3 bath heusen.
2 & 3 Bdrmt Apartments. Visit aur web-
site at wsnw.allmandprnpemties.catetfar
tetre info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-tO. NFSLLEDAV
Efittcietncies, I & 2 Bedrooms! eearHEDdfie
Futrnished, seal & water included, nerckeaids
FEL parkineg and Lthernet! CCRB, Univ
Call today far an appointmeint In see! Sorority andI
Prine Sttudent -lotising doorstep. Gel,
761-8000 primeslscain front parch.
*Amsenities varies by lacation Litchen higI
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY FLEXI- washter and n
BLE leases. famnished or unfuirnishsed. parking. Car
Call taday 741-9657. 734-662-5500
www.michces
AVAILABLE FALL EHO.
Beautifuil 1 bdrm. apt. IHardwood
fooers, hay window, new kitchten. 2 GRADUATE
blacks I toampuis. 734-944-2405. Wahna!
AVAILABLE FALL 2009 available. Clo
7 bdrm. 521 Linden, 2 bath, 6 prkg. campns, made
spots, wshr/dryervdwnhr/disposal, cen- kitchens. Vlsi:
tral hea!/AC $32001linden52t amecetet wmw.varnitynr
5 bdrm. 525 Linldent, 2 bath., 4 prkg.
spats, wshr/dryer, dwshsr/disposal, ceo- GREAT 2 B
teal heat/AC $2800 littden52S el/tte.cem tlee Heat/tez

/ashington (Charming Old
)me) $1795
Taurnished) $2395
Acress from South Quad)
Ave Asmers!) $3995
Packard and State) $2995
Id (Remodeled Kitchen)
(Famnished) $2995
(Furished. Dishewasher)
nd 2 Bedrooms also avail-
ome May rates are now
a! Wilson White
734-995-9200
:ltitessanageinent.cnrn
sanwhitemanageinentkcnm
:Y AND 1 bdrm. apts.
9Prices range $675-$925.
teal and water and have
o$25/ma. 734-996-1991
4anagementcam
T, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, sail-
-kg + Indry incI. 2 blacks
400. 734-260-4003.
Plan Condominium
734-663-1838
VAILABILITY: FUR-
Oe bedroom hoase located
sand Sout University.
uMarket, Cetral Catmpas,
-emsily Hospital, and all
Fraternity Heusen at youtr
qee attic space and large
Can sleep 6 residents.
alights include a dinsh-
nem fooring! Laundry and
ltact Michigan Really at
I or
nrealty.catsefar details.
ESTUDENT? 418 F.
sudios and one bedrooms
mse ta Main St. and central
em., qutiet, tmany updated
sanagementeeom
3DEM apt in prime Inca-
ter inclutded. $1249/inn.
5. www.campessrealty.cem
k. BLDG- 1.5 blacks
s: 6 Bdrin.-$2,800. Avail.
)9. 3 Parking spaces in-
iiqne, convenient. Call
19 anytime.
ERM. apt. avail, in pritme
nd water inel. $1799/ ma.
5. www.catnpusreatty.com
kTE & FALL DOcaupancy
in: 1320 5. University Ne-
Rates & Flexible Term
Pearking, FREE Intene!,
Bledrooms, Call Today!
1-8000 or primenheaom

Issa Properties
Furnishod (optional) 1 & 2 Bdm.
Includes heat, ater, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
* Now Losing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
I 734-62-4440
nfo@issaproprties.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM huse- fully
famnished. g mdern kitchen, cvered
prch & mch mre. 741-9300.
mm.annarba raparlmenn.nen
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 . State, Near GM bes stp,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & ater
incl. Bal., A/C, prkg..ldry.,
$1450-$1750, Na stkgn pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-67-7250.
eheseng dacastnet
LUXURY 2BED/2BATH CONDO
avail Mar. Hardened foor, large livin-
grom. OFFZeeb. $1350/me Water
inc. 734-913-6069.
Sciterry cdgiailcas
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
Norh of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrts. frm
$788-5949/ta. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lte of
amenities. Ask aout ner special. 734-
449-421 3.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail an central or nrlls camps.
741-9300 mm.annarbrapartenl.net
FTBRM.& FE PTS1
I$50-$651
SEPT 2009
COIPROPERTIES
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$400 signing bns n all 2 bedrom
+ free inernet
an ivers iylamers-m i. com
734-761-2680
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrt.
lacl. Heat/Water/Pinking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
OPPENHEIMER PROPERTIES
still has hasen and large aps. fr ren
far Fall 09. Offering $500-$000 sign-
ing bans fr available prpeties!
4 Bedroom
816 Brnnkeennod. $2700 + util.
1803 Hill St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Gtill. inc.
506 W Williams. 2 bah. $2100 + util.
5 Bedroom
401 Lnwrnce ni 2. Kerrylown. 2
bath. $2875 + electric.
40l Lawrrcenit 3. Kerrytwn. 2
bath. $2950 + gas atd eecric.
6 Bedroom
416 Hamiltn Place. 3 bath. DOcc.-8.
$3500 + uti L.
126 Hill St. 2 bath. $3100 +- util.
1803 Hill Sn. Git 2. i-level. 1.5 bath.
All util. paid. May Lease. $3300
203 Koch. 2 bah. $2450 + util.
Please Contat 734-995-5575 or
wwwoppenheimerpropertiesecom
W W W800FULLERCOM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm. tademn, clean, qiet
5 lin, walk, MED. DENT, and Campn
Masst, aemeus
~tGfor your
\caparment befre Break!
Furished Sudos, 1, 2, & 3
edroms still aailabl!
Call 7)4.66.1100 tday
fr an appcinen!
I niusarsilaeuv:~l

I

z issc sec,- o

Contact Jonaht Copi 415 706 8206.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
far fall. Contactl PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or mm.pssipraperties.cata
BEAUTIFUL 4 BDRM. house in Ann
Arbor. Rent negotiable. "Came see far
yourself; Contact Mike 734-576-8591.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
reams far students, shared hitch., Idry..
bash., internet, Rent frame $430 - $520.
Call 734-276-0886.
FALL RENTAL: 6 Bdrm. FHouse
$2400!!!?(In Central Campts,. 3 baths,
Fans., free Idry, prkg, 734-706-0249.

734-665-8825
HISTORICA
from camus,
Sept 1, 200
chuded. Uni
(734) 649-554
BHlGE 3 BD.
spat. Heat ar
734-665-8825
IMMEDIA
Great Locatio
gotiable I
Famnished,'
,,3(734)-761

RELEA5E DATE- Fridap. February 20. 2000
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSSO 688mashington 58 Sharp 45 D-sturbance
1 Lseningdevnce WNBAlteam 20 Great and 0lfsonra gym?
4 naR8u n to9Ecuselaiee Western reginn 55 Pondeanalitothers
11 Helo! net 3!"Wheofat 53ODiscoentnue
14 "Bno-- DOWN Fonlane" bag 54 Hlgepodge
15 Fooless Leader 1 Saltysaanerb 33 MetItragedy, 56 Bach's relln
undterling S Cetain maybha? saitens, eg.
18 Hpper too soetnhing 34 Fall nofit 08 "The Memrofa
pearl 3 Can'tlake she 386iCrew altemnatine Treed" albam
17 Line alit beahe heatlitreally 40 Keeps in she makes
18 Usifomm piene 4'"Paper Moen" n-marl nnp 50 hoant site
10 Oespot Amin Oscrtwillet 43 Bbical natlme 61 ChX gnatsanon
20 Gounationo Day 0 Hogwash 44 Embarks 82 Org, as ine
5Crcrenem6aPadictednl et ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
serl short LAMA ZE L A PS AS
23Naoneg. 7Like manyafrat A TON ES A CC U RSE D
24 "on the Right poop YOUIDBESUR
Thng" pizzetma 8 haroni al
26 Evntuallyg 9 Playsirty, S P EA R U T E SET A I L
28 Teuch lerally A IC E R E Z I N E
3n Alvien!cress 10nGrab grab K I nB0S5H0 ECPOX0Y5ME
shape 11tBe clumsy, 0000 EAC C RU E PE T
32 Albemarle lerallp H O W MU1CH I TCO ST S
Sonfr 12rhanoge L P S T HE LM A A5ST A
exampln rensiderably
30 Linens ir the 13 Arthuranol alp EI AATE GE
deset? 21 "Toodle-oo" 0 E 0 1 E A P E S
37lBandonlthe 231"Ihate the Mner' 0 B 0 C 0 5 5 0 A S K T 0
raol speaker TOLOOKTH I S C HCAP
38 Plafra sap 25hAvoidatguments, H A L F TR0 U C A T 0 N C E
390"hebEyeseof literaly STY TAB S PAR T ON
2nn5 PBS 27 Prank instigaoers
science shoenxordeditoriao.com 0o/an/09
4n 20nn biopic 1 2 3 4 s5 s6 e7 8 95 103 1 12 3
41 RemoeeutSan
44 Wrapper's pair 1 81
48 Make flash? e 5
47Md. hnurs 2 as1 in2
48 108P0A
chomp Bob 24a s 6 2
40 Like soe
premises 6629 so a1 32 33 34
51 Reonlste3s7
53 Plate betweel
twa bones 38 39 33 41
55 Rther
57kLoer ofEuridice, a2 43 33s 45
in 0 Mntenerdi
werk 460a7 36
80 Pretlggarb 49 so 515
Kangaoo"e 53 54 55 56 57 58 59
63 LI'. Fller so 1s2 6
84 no Bethoen":o 63 66
2oa2 Sparks
album ee7 86
80 Tybaltfreone
80 Leak oesr sByn,,i,,:A. Dsum
87 Shoe pal (c20 raib une MdiaSerices, inc. 02120/09

Deadln irlrno ado :s011:10am one business day pror to pubicatlor. Classification:
0 0- hostoud

4

F

dates: $4.3

additional cor
contact oursa
ado are pace
busiress ads
ba/aeboar os
Dsocover, cas
of our Accour

S0par lins forthetfirst issue and $2.15 per i ne for each
nsecutive issue. " Frequency and Sulk contracts aro s/cslable-
>tad) fr detaila * Students may race/ca a 25%n discount when
d rn persor with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
only) * All ads must be prepaid unless orior Ullong privileges
stabliabed 9 We accept Vsa, Mastercard, Amercan Express,
3h, or ch eck " For Olassifed Displayadvcertsirg, pease call one
int Executves

00 0 For Sale
025 -FPrkrng

04C
04,E

- Gopu
- rrcno
-Futtu!
-Fo R e!
-Suble

I

I day 2 daya 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 860 12.90 7/20 2!.50 2580
3 lines 12.0 !1.35 5.0 2.7 3857/
4lines 1/20 25.80 1t.40 43.0 516

Hel pWarted
-Summner Fopl

- Ticets &lTr

Policies:
Abbreviations:rnl
I M frfilr o b

Rates:sAl
(-Is:Ctv

tob ihn n a s sI ::
1il to wcasiidadtsr r (
JRefusal:Al5as r e e

id by TMC il ac ce.Misprints:rTe [abityr
aaon rafo pblstgiect:ads ina speid vs
nd notmorItanhecoI!o orinorretinetion.T
only t1noifie y 5 gpmonte [airtday og un ia!
e coseutv inertinAdrmay beaxtededa
0aonoiiays aculd ing ate,0 Refunds:
die, La!no efudo ell egion ulesllthhsno
ngadarova:. OddoInot b lhadverisntsIo
,estherghtto qeI apeo arlccoIderesgpri

123 Websta
12- Musi
130 - Ror
140 usod
150 Persora
160 -Pets

4

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michi a ndaily.com

1 4

1 0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com _r

SHAMAN DRUM
From Page 1
which the task force ultimately
recommended. It was implemented
last November.
The purpose of the uBook pro-
gram is to make textbooks more
affordable by encouraging pro-
fessors to publish reading lists
on Ctools, where an integrated
exchange system allows students
to buy, sell and trade.
Task force members suggested
that making required readings
available in advance would help
booksellers avoid expensive early-
semester rush orders, potentially
driving down prices.
Pohrt said uBook effects have
been more harmful than helpful, as
it only causes more students to do
their textbook shopping online.
In the last two textbook rushes,
sales have been "pretty terrible,"
Pohrt said, adding that if textbook
sales are to be continued at all,
which is still in question, the selec-
tion would probably "specialize in
courses inthe humanities andsome
of the social sciences that are more
analogous to the kind of books we
sell on the first floor."
Pohrt also wrote in the Ann
Arbor Chronicle letter that Shaman
Drum will be vacating the second
floor, where textbooks are sold.
Pohrt applied for nonprofit sta-

Elizabeth Comer assists a customer with a book purchase at Shaman Drum on Feb.19, 2009.

tus with the IRS last March, and
while he's confident that it will be
approved, the application is still
being processed.
"What I wanted to do was give
my bookshop to the community,"
he said.
As a nonprofit, the store, rein-
carnated as the Great Lakes Liter-
ary Arts Center, would be eligible

to receive tax-deductible donations
and government grants.
Shaman Drum hosts a variety
of author events, readings, classes,
workshops, discussions and par-
ties. As the GLLAC, these programs
would be expanded. Pohrt said this
kind of activity makes the store
more likely to receive grants.
Pohrt opened Shaman Drum in

1980, and he considers ita valuable
intellectual and cultural hub in
Ann Arbor. He said the change in
business model is essential for Sha-
man Drum's survival. Above all,
he hopes that if he gives the shop
to the community, the community
will give back.
"If we're not supported, we're
not going to be here," he said.

FOOTBALL TICKETS
From Page 1
money in state. That is also very
important during these economic
times."
Students will be able to pur-
chase season tickets beginning in
CANDIDATE
From Page 1
Walker stressed the importance
of a balance between the rights
of students and the rights of the
University and the city as a whole.
He also said the University must
continue to bear in mind students'
individual needs.
"You cannot have one formula
that fits all students," he told audi-
ence members. "There needs to be
growth and development for the
student throughout (the educa-
tional) process."
CONSTRUCTION
From Page 3
TENURE-ELIGIBLE FACULTY
The Regents approved University
Provost Teresa Sullivan's request
to grant tenure to faculty members
in the Center for Computational
Medicine and Bioinformatics.
Over 100 faculty members work
in the center, which was created
to foster interdisciplinary studies
in the two fields and grow rela-
SUSTAINABILITY
From Page 1
Another member of SSI told the
regents that a director would be
necessary to manage the office's
activities, but that more planning
is needed.
"Decisions need to be made
about where the office sits, who
will lead it and how it will be
funded - until it pays for itself,"
he said.
Rackham student Aaron James,
an SSI member, stressed that sus-
tainability efforts will pay for
themselves.
"We have an opportunity to
simultaneously improve our
finances and our environmental
record," he said. "Green buildings
are not an added expense, they are
investments in the future of our
university."
James added that buildings
account for 98 percent of the ener-
gy use and greenhouse gas emis-

Friday, February 20, 2009 - 7
April, and the application dead-
line will be Friday, May 8.
The first game of the season,
a home game against Western
Michigan, will be on Saturday,
Sept. 5 at Michigan Stadium.
- The Associated Press and
Daily News Editor Jillian Berman
Walker's luncheon was the last
of the three finalists for the posi-
tion as dean of students.
On Tuesday Karen Boyd, for-
mer senior associate for student
life at the Georgia Institute of
Technology visited the Univer-
sity. Laura Jones, interim dean of
students and director of the office
of student life at the University of
Oregon, visited on Wednesday.
The three-day luncheon and
forum series has been a final step
in the search to replace former
Dean of Students Sue Eklund,
who retired from her position
last year.
tionships with other universities.
Faculty members who are granted
tenure will report to the dean of
the Medical School.
Sullivan said allowing tenure
for these individuals would help to
recruitthe highestqualified faculty
for future openings at the center.
"(This) will greatly improve our
ability to attract world class inves-
tigators," she said.
-Daily Stalf eporter Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.
sions on campus.
Slottow said the University is
taking steps to achieve sustain-
ability, including changing from
the 1999 American Society for
Heating, Refrigerating and Air
Conditioning Engineers energy
standards - which the state of
Michigan currently uses - to the
2007 standards.
"We have recently, in the last
week actually, formally adopted
the 2007 standards, which are 10
to 20 percent more efficient than
the 1999 standards that the state is
using," Slottow said.
Slottow called energy perfor-
mance extremely important to
the University, and added that he
is working with students to make
sustainability a reality on cam-
pus.
"We have been working with
the students," he said. "We are
making significant progress."
- Erik Torenberg
contributed to this report.

Clinton names special envoy to N. Korea

Secretary of state's
actions come amid
hostile rhetoric
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - U.S.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton named a special envoy for
NorthKoreaon todaybut warned the
communist nation that ties with the
United States will not improve unless
itstops threateningSouthKorea.
Amid a disturbing rise in belliger-
ent rhetoric from the North toward
the South and signs it may be getting
ready to test-fire a ballistic missile,
she urged Pyongyang to halt "pro-
vocative and unhelpful" gestures
and rejoin stalled six-nation nuclear
disarmament talks.
"North Korea is not going to get a
different relationship with the Unit-
ed States while insulting and refus-
ing dialogue with (South Korea),"
Clinton told reporters at a news con-
ference with South Korean Foreign
Minister Yu Myung-hwan.
"We are calling on the govern-
mentof North Koreato refrain from
being provocative and unhelpful
in a war of words that it has been
engaged in because that is not very
fruitful," she said.
Clinton, who also received a mili-
'tary briefing on the situation along

the demilitarized zone between
North and South Korea and dis-
cussed broader issues with South
Korean President Lee Myung-Bak,
praised Seoul for its democracy and
prosperity.
Shesaidthatwas "instarkcontrast
to the tyranny and poverty across the
border to the North" and commend-
ed the "people of South Korea and
your leaders for your calm, resolve
and determination in the face of pro-
vocative and unhelpful statements
and actionsby the North."
She declined to comment on intel-
ligence suggesting the North could
soon fire a missile but noted such
an act would violate U.N. Security
Council Resolution 1718, which was
passed after Pyongyang detonated a
nuclear device in 2006.
"The North should refrain from
violating this resolution and also
from any and all provocative actions
that could harm the six-party talks
and aggravate the tensions in the
region," Clinton said.
She demanded that the North fol-
low through on promises it made
to dismantle and verifiably disable
its nuclear weapons program dur-
ing negotiations with China, Japan,
Russia, South Korea and the United
States last year, saying Washington
is not willingto engage with Pyong-
yang until it does so.

Clinton said the new U.S. special
representative for North Korea, Ste-
phen Bosworth, a formerU.S. ambas-
sador to South Korea, would work
with South Korea, Japan, China and
others to look at ways to get Pyong-
yang back to the negotiating table
and deal with broader policy.
Bosworth will also deal with
North Korean human rights and
humanitarian issues, she said, prais-
ing him as "a capable and experi-
enced diplomat" who will report to
her and President Barack Obama.
En route to South Korea from
Indonesia on Thursday on her first
overseas trip as America's top dip-
lomat, Clinton surprised reporters
traveling with her when she spoke
candidly about a possible succession
crisis in North Korea and its impact
on restarting the talks.
Those comments marked a rare,
if not unprecedented, instance of a
senior U.S. official publicly discuss-
ing such a diplomatically sensitive
matter.
On Friday in Seoul, Clinton again
acknowledged concerns over a
potential power struggle to replace
ailingNorth KoreanleaderKimJong
Ii, but she stressed that the United
States was still addressing its con-
cerns to the existing governnent.
"As we look at planning and con-
tingency planning, we're taking

everything into account, but we feel
there is a government in place right
now and that government is being
asked to re-engage with the six-par-
ty talks, to fulfill the obligations that
they have agreed to," she said.
"And we expect them to do so,"
Clinton added, stressing that her
earlier succession comments had not
divulged any classified information
and that similar analysis could easily
be found in newspapers and online.
Kim,67,inheritedleadershipfrom
his father, North Korea founder Kim
Il Sung, in 1994, creating the world's
first communist dynasty. Last year,
South Korean and U.S. officials said
Kim suffered a stroke and under-
wentbrain surgery in August.
North Korean officials have
steadfastly denied Kim is ill but
state-run media made no mention of
Kim's public appearances for weeks
last fall, feeding fears that his sud-
den death without naming a succes-
sor could leave a power vacuum and
spark an internal struggle.
Kim's father had cultivated a
powerful cult of personality that
encompassed him and his son, and
recent dispatches in North Korea's
state-run Korean Central News
Agency have stressed the impor-
tance of bloodline and inheritance
in what is seen as references to the
succession plan.

WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS?
E-MAIL SMILOVITZ@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

the michigan daily

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
- 411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
ROOM IN LRG. Hse. Share Living.,
Din., Kitch., Bath. Util. Incl. 717-2017.

WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished,, security. Call
248-77-0859 or 248-217-6096.
REMODELED 2 BEDROOMS
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet and Heat & Water,
One Parking Space incluaded
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
TIRED OF SEARCHING for your
apartment or house? Wilson White
Management offers One Stop Shopping
with hundreds of apartments and
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing
agents are ready to help you the perfect
place to call home on campus. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all
lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
-n*

help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.

WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
QUIT SMOKING! $100, patches, &
personalized intervention. Make
study
visits including a brain scan.
734.232.0705.
EARN QUICK $3001 For referral ser-
vice on 5 bdrm house. 734-717-2017.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as,a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-


For Saturday, Feb. 21, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Research can reveal some answers for
you today. Look in unlikely places for
solutions you weren't expecting. This is
a perfect day towork behind the scenes.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
This is a good day to talk to members
of a group where you feel there's been a
misunderstanding or if you want to clar-
ify things. You'll be clear about what
you want, and hopefully, others will hear
you.
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Because you're in Ihe limelight right
now, important people notice you. Today
you might be able to show them a side
they've never seen before. Show them
you're strong in other areas as well.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
You might make improvements to
future travel plans or get permission to
change something related to education,
medicine and the law. You also have
ideas about how to improve politics or
religion.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You might see new uses for the
resources of others today. Or you might
come to a better understanding about
how to deal with shared property and
inheritances.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
A frank discussion with a close friend
or partner could improve things, espe-
cially if you have been having problems
lately. Don't be pushy; just be open to
new possibilities.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)

Quite likely, you can introduce
improvements or better ways of doing
things at work today. Your timing is
good, because people will probably lis-
ten to you.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Parents might discover a new
approach to dealing with children today.
People involved is sports might see a
better way of doing something as well.
SAGITTA RIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Trust your home-improvement ideas
today. In particular, tackle areas related
to bathrooms, plumbing and garbage.
Get rid of clutter.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
It's almost as if you have X-ray vision
today. You know what people are think-
ing, and you know what they have on
their agenda.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
New sources of income might occur to
you today. You might see how to earn a
little money on the side or, perhaps, how
to find an entirely new job.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Do a reality check and take a serious
look in the mirror. What can you do to
improve the first impression you create
on others? Or what about your health?
YOU BORN TODAY You're an emo-
tionally deep person. Because of this,
you're slow to trust others. You don't
want to get hurt. You care strongly about
your work, and the challenges you
encounter only make you try harder.
You're very open and honest. In the year
ahead, you will learn or study something
that is valuable to you.
Birthdate of: Anais Nin, author; Ellen
Page, actress; William Petersen, actor.

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
-

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-based salary
...and having FUN atthe same time
Please e-mail dailyclassifedegmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply

S' Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE, Don't Let This Great
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp. Opportunity Pass You By!
996-0566 or writeon@riserv.net

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

2009 King Features Syndicate, Ine.

4

A

A


4

8 - Friday, February 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Novak's hot 3-point
shooting key in win

0

M needs to look at big picture

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
In his team's 74-62 win over
Minnesota last night, Michigan
men's basketball coach John Beilein
attributed his team's 45.8-percent
shooting to a special visitor.
Beile- M E
in's priest, MICHIGA6N 74
Father M
Chas
Canoy of Ann Arbor's St. Thomas
Parish, attended his first game at
Crisler Arena last night.
"That's some pretty easy math
right there," Beilein said with a
laugh. "First game he's come to and
the lids came off the basket, and it
makes us a whole different team."
Michigan made 13 shots from
behind the arc, its highest total in
Big Ten play this season.
Beilein has had an arsenal of
3-point specialists all year, but the
biggest problem for the Wolverines
has been if one player's shooting
well, the rest can't follow suit.
But last night, the Wolverines'
guards couldn't miss.
Freshmen Zack Novak and Stu
Douglass and sophomore Kelvin
Grady shot an unstoppable 11-of-19
from behind the arc. Playing unself-
ishly, the Wolverines recorded assists
on all but six baskets. Novak scored a
game-high 18 points, all 3-pointers.
"Hopefully we'll be good enough
one day to shoot poorly and still beat
good teams with some other stuff,"
Beilein said. "But right now, if we
can create our own shots through
our offense and through our
defense, I think we can play with a
lot of people."
Novak and Douglass, both Indi-
ana natives, have impressed with
their long-range abilities before, but
never on the same night.
With Douglass's 12 points, it was
the first time the two scored in dou-
ble digits in the same game.
Until redshirt freshman guard
Laval Lucas-Perry became eligible
on Dec. 20, Novak and Douglass

T here's no time to skirt
around the fact that the
Michigan basketball team
is firmly on the NCAA Tourna-
ment bubble - and the time has
passed for those tired old clichs
about "taking it one game at a
time" or "not
getting ahead
of yourself."
The team's
goal is to make
the NCAA .
Tournament's
field of 65,
and, according
to fifth-year ANDY
senior David REID
Merritt, the-
players and
coaches talk about it every day.
It's about big-picture stuff. Get
to 10 Big Ten wins, don't drop
another home game, shake the
road-game woes and raise hell
in the conference tournament. A
short-term focus isn't going to help
anyone now.
That was Merritt's mentality as
he sat at his locker smiling after
an impressive win over Minnesota
last night.
"The NCAA is always on our
mind," Merritt said. "That's what
we come in every day to work
toward. We're just trying to get
there."
Yes, beating the Golden Gophers
was a big win, and yes, it gets

Michigan closer to its ultimate
goal, but it's far from enough. With
four regular-season games to go
(three of which are on the road),
the Wolverines need to win at least
two - if not three - to stay on the
right side of the bubble.
Merritt, one of the emotional
leaders on this team, has a mind-
set that is exactly what Michigan
needs right now. If the Wolverines
got too high after the big win last
night, they could get distracted
from their goal.
But there were plenty of posi-
tives to be taken from last night's
game against the Golden Gophers.
It took almost two full seasons,
but Michigan men's basketball
coach John Beilein's patented
sharp-shooting, turnover-causing,
fastbreak-thriving style of play
finally seemed to fall into place for
40-straight minutes last night.
And because of the reemergence
of Beilein Ball, which has been in
hibernation for most of the last
month, the Wolverines looked like
a team that could not only make
the NCAA Tournament but also
do some serious damage once they
go there.
Everything started with the
3-pointer, one of the characteristic
traits of Beilein Ball, and a slew of
maize-and-blue players that got
hot from behind the arc.
Freshman Zack Novak hit his
first three deep ballson his way to

a staggering six a-pointers. Fresh-
man Stu Douglass was feelingit,
too. And sophomore Kelvin Grady,
who has been struggling to get off
the bench recently, added three
triples.
We've all heard that Beilein's
teams live and die by the 3-pointer.
Sure, the Wolverines benefited
from hitting a couple shots, but,
this squad is about more than that.
On defense, Beilein's 1-3-1 zone
scheme emphasizes stringent
defense, and causing as many
turnovers as possible. The Golden
Gophers coughed up the ball 12
times, which led to a ton of easy
transition buckets on the other
end.
Lay-ins, dunks and touch float-
ers are a whole lot easier when
there are no defenders around.
"I don't know - it was like that
from the start," Merritt said of
Michigan's dominant play. "We
just had a good feeling, like we
were going to come out strong. But
I think this was the best game we,
played all season, defensively and
offensively."
Even if the team can't explain
it, the hot shooting and the tough
defense are exactly what the teani
has to have down the stretch to
make the tournament:
Every day.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.

SAID ALSALAH/Da
Freshman Zack Novak scored a career-high 18 points of f of six 3-pointers.

never played on the floor at the same
time. Since then, they've fine-tuned
their on-court chemistry.
Late the first half, Novak was
on a fastbreak and got tied up with
Minnesota in the lane. But stand-
ing behind him at the top of the key,
Douglass was open for the 3-pointer.
"I just hear one word - I hear,
'Zack, Zack,' " Novak said. "I just
turned around, and I knew right
away, if he's open, then he can hit
it. It's just things like that we know
how to play off each other."
Douglass made-the shot, one of
Michigan's nine first-half 3-pointers.
"On the bench at the beginning
of the game, I said, 'This was going
to be a shooting night,'" Grady said.
"These guys aren't going to miss."
And last night, neither did Grady.
For the last five contests, Grady
has watched most of Michigan's
games from the bench. After aver-
aging over 23 minutes per game,
he played just eight combined min-
utes in the five contests before last
night's game.
But when sophomore forward

Manny Harris played just 22 min-
utes because of foul trouble, it was
Grady who filled in.
He made the most of that time.
One of Michigan's fastest players,
Grady broke Minnesota's full-court
press, found open teammates and
knocked down his own shots. In 14
minutes, he was perfect on his four
attempts from the field, finishing
with 12 points an d three assists.
Both teams entered the game
battling for breathing room in the
middle of the Big Ten standings,
and both teams' NCAA Tournament
hopes depend greatly on the last two
weeks of the regular season. Michi-
gan (7-7 Big Ten, 17-10 overall) and
Minnesota (7-7, 19-7) need to finish
with at least a.500 conference record
and win a couple games in the Big
Ten Tournament to seriously think
about an at-large NCAA bid.
But after back-to-back wins -
their first winning streak since the
beginning of January - the Wolver-
ines have renewed confidence in the
conference entering their final four-
game regular-season stretch.

Anemic offense sinks Blue

NCAA seed at stake against OSU

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
Usually when Michigan and Ohio
State battle on the ice late in the sea-
son, only one of the teams is looking
to secure a spot in the NCAA Tour-
nament.
And that team Michigan at
isn't usually wear- Ohio State
ing scarlet and
gray. Matchup:
But this week- Michigan
end, with the 23-9-0;
regular season 11-10-4t
winding down,
both the Wolver- When:
ines and the Buck- Tonight,
7:05 .m.
eyes' postseason
dreams are still Where: Value
alive. Michi- City Arena
gan, sitting in TV: BTN
third place in the
CCHA, is almost
certain to nab a spot, but Ohio State
still has some work to do.
Ohio State is in a precarious posi-
tion after its collapse againstconfer-
ence doormat Michigan State last
weekend. If the Wolverines sweep
the Buckeyes this weekend, the
Buckeyes can likely kiss their NCAA
dreams goodbye.
Ohio State sits in fifth place in
the CCHA with 29 points. Friday
and Saturday's games at Value City
Arena will essentially be playoff
games for the Buckeyes.

"Any series this time of year is a
big series for us," Michigan junior
defenseman Steve Kampfer said.
"We're starting to turn into playoff
hockey. We're still trying to fight for
those top two seeds. That's our main
goal right now. It's not who we play,
it's how we play."
And with the conference playoffs
beginning in two weeks, Michigan
can't slow down, either. The Wolver-
ines, who are in second place in the
PairWise standings that determine
NCAA Tournament seedings, have
Notre Dame breathing down their
backs at fourth place in the Pair-
Wise. Michigan and Notre Dame
are both looking to secure the cov-
eted No. 1 spot in the Grand Rapids
regional of the NCAA Tournament.
The lower-seeded team will likely
play in Minneapolis for the first two
rounds of the tournament.
While Michigan is already guar-
anteed a first-round bye in the
CCHA Tournament, it now looks
to secure either the second or third
seed and better positioning for the
NCAA Tournament.
When asked whether knowing
when and where his team will play
its first series helps the Wolverines,
Michigan coach Red Berenson defi-
nitely thought so.
"I hope it helps our team," Beren-
son said. "I think it gives us a little
bit of direction. We know where
we're going to play. We don't know

who we're going to play but we know
when and where."
The Buckeyes haven't battled for
an NCAA berth in a while, and their
newfound success isn't by sheer
luck. Ohio State's freshman class .is
one of the best in the nation.
Led by Zac Daple, who is second
in the nation among freshmen with
13 goals, the Buckeyes are much
improved from last year's seventh-
place CCHA finish.
"Here's a team that's been in the
top four for much of the first half
and most of the year," Berenson
said. "We just now got past them.
You look at their numbers - espe-
cially their offense - and they've
been as good as anybody. They're
having a year like we did last year
with all those freshmen."
Earlier this season, Michigan
swept Ohio State at Yost Ice Arena,
winning4-3 and 6-1. Senior forward
Tim Miller scored the game win-
ners in both nights. But Berenson
realizes both teams are much dif-
ferent from where they were at the
end of October.
"(Ohio State's) lines are more set,
their team is more set," Berenson
said. "We're a different team than
we were then and they are too. They
just played Notre Dame a few weeks
ago and they were right there with
Notre Dame, so they're a good team.
They just didn't get off to asgood a
start."

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
EAST LANSING-Michigan
women's basketball coach Kevin
Borseth muttered under his
breath as he solemnly walked
back out onto the Breslin Center
court for last night's second half.
The reaction was fitting, con-
sidering the Wolverines had
scored just 13 points in the first
frame last night against Michigan
State. IMICHIGAN 27
And MICHIGAN STATE 52
by the
time the
game ended, Michigan had tal-
lied just 14 more, causing Borseth
to look downright depressed.
The Wolverines lost 52-27 to the
Spartans, the lowest point total in
program history.
The game inEast Lansing looked
much more like a neighborhood
street game than a Big Ten match-
up. Tensions were high, with each
team hitting the hardwood almost
every time the ball went up and
down the court.
"It's a battle either way," sopho-
more guard Veronica Hicks said.
"They're up in the series and they
want to keep us down, basically.
We're in-state, we're supposed to
be rivals. But they have been get-
ting the better of us."
For all of the game's physicality,
the Wolverines' efforts fell short.
Michigan shot just 19 percent from
the field and 50 percent from the
free throw line. The Wolverines'
previous scoring low this year was
37 from the first time they played
the Spartans on Jan. 15.
That game on Jan. 15 was an
emotional loss for Michigan, back
when the Wolverines' record was
still above .500. But Michigan State
made an example of Michigan once
again.
"Every time we go out and play
each other, one of the teams wants
to make a statement," Hicks said.
"Tonight they really just came
out and they played aggressive
because they wanted to push us
in the dirt."
Senior guard Jessica Minnfield
found herself on the floor many
times throughout the game. She
drew offensive fouls,"was bumped
driving to the basket and played
physical defense.

WILL MOELLER/Daily
Freshman Carmen Reynolds pulled in a game-high seven rebounds in the loss.

4

Michigan State didn't escape
the game without some bruises
of its own, either. Michigan came
out attacking on defense, which
tangled up the Spartan offense.
The Wolverines contested almost
every shot, but Michigan State
successfully countered the Wol-
verines' aggressive man-to-man
scheme by going straight at them
head on and driving to the bas-
ket.
And on the offensive end,
Michigan wasn't surprised by the
Spartans' zone defense. The Wol-
verines just flat out missed their
shots.

I I

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line ads to
clients
Obtaining andbuildingclientrelationships
Gainingpriceless salesexperience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-based salary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please e-mail dailyclassi fedgmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!

Are You Feeling Sad or Blue
and Without Energy?
Have you lost interest in people?
Do you have problems with sleep?
If you answered "yes" to these questions, you are a woman or
man over the age of 18, and NOT taking medications, you may be
eligible to participate in studies looking at stress hormones.
Both studies involve multiple blood draws and between 2 and 5
study visits of varying length.
Compensation provided for study participation.
For further information, please contact
depressionstudies@umich.edu or 734-232-0382

Michigan worked on its offen-
sive game plan all week in prep-
aration for the Spartans' stout
2-3 zone defense. The practice
appeared to pay off early in the
game as the Wolverines forced
two turnovers that led to open
layups and jumped to a 9-3 lead.
But the Spartans ended the
half on a 19-4 run by going back
to what worked for them in the
matchup earlier this season:
points in the paint and open mid-
range jump shots.
"I thought we had a good plan
comingin," Borseth said. "Started
out good ... and then nothing."
Michigan State continued its
strong play in the second half and
the Wolverines couldn't counter
because their shots weren't drop-
ping. The Spartans didn't shoot
the lights out, either, and they
turned the ball over almost as
much as Michigan did, but Michi-
gan State's 21,points in the paint
were the difference.
Even though the Wolverines
were outplayed last night, senior
forward Carly Benson is confi-
dent that the two teams may meet
again.
"We played (Michigan State)
close at home, when we didn't
play very good either," Benson
said. "And we played absolutely
god awful tonight. So if we had
any kind of offensive output we
would have been in that game."

4
4

4

f A


