PORTS CULT(URE)
;s-to-riches mentality, club sports are
the fundamentals of competition.
-EMENT, INSIDE

r Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, October 7, 2009

michigandaily.com

CAPITALISM: A LOVE STORY

DONATION DIVIDENDS:
PART 3 OF A 5-PART SERIES
How the

'U' brings
in the big
money gifts

In his lecture "Capitalism Without Guilt: The Moral Case for Freedom," Yaron Brook, the president and executive director of The Ayn Rand institute, argued before a packed
crowd in the Chemistry Building that the government - not the failure of the free market - caused the nation's economic recession. For the full story, go to michigandaily.com.
CAMPUS DIVERSITY
'U' mulls gender-neutral housing

Spectrum Center,
ACLU team up to
back proposal
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
The University prides itself
on its diverse student and fac-
ulty bodies, championing what
officials consider a friendly and
open environment for those of all
backgrounds. But when students
apply for housing before fresh-
man year, there is no box for gen-

der preference.
The housing application asks
incoming freshman if they want
to live in a substance-free room,
whether they want a single, dou-
ble or triple room and where they
prefer to live on campus. But there
is no option for transgender stu-
dents looking for gender-neutral
housing.
That may soon change.
The University is considering a
proposal that was initially pitched
by the Spectrum Center Student
Advisory Board to create a gen-
der-neutral housing option geared
toward transgender students.

The proposal has not been sig-
nificantly acted upon since it was
first introduced last April, but is
picking up new momentum with
help from the campus undergrad-
uate chapter of the American Civil
Liberties Union.
ACLU board member Ellen
Steele, an LSA sophomore, wrote
in an e-mail interview that the
group made the proposal in an
effort to make University resi-
dence halls more inclusive.
"Our ultimate goal would be
to make gender-neutral hous-
ing available to all students in all
dorms," Steele wrote. "Students of

different genders can already live
in the same hall. There is no rea-
son they shouldn't be able to live
in the same room."
And it appears that many uni-
versities across the country would
agree.
According to the website gen-
derblind.org, there are currently
36 colleges and universities with
gender-neutral housing options,
including several schools the
University considers to be its
peer institutions like Brown
University, Dartmouth College,
Harvard University and Stan-
See HOUSING, Page 3A

Building rights,
estate planning
among tools at
officials' disposal
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
and KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporters -
It's 10 a.m. and you can't find
your room key. After 10 minutes of
searching, you find it buried under
last week's laundry. You run out of
your dorm and make it to class just
in time to catch the last 15 minutes
of lecture. Having skipped break-
fast, you head to Mary Markley
Residence Hall to grab an early
lunch before you meet friends for
a study group at the library. After
hours of studying, you make your
way over to Hill Auditorium for a
concert.
In a typical day, students rush in
and out of the buildings that define
the character of campus - build-
ings that stand there because of
the University's major donors and
decision makers of yesteryear.
In fact, your residence hall was
named after Alice Lloyd, who was

the University's dean of women for
20 years. Stephen M. Ross paid for
part of the business school build-
ing where you arrived late to class.
Mary Markley Residence Hall,
where you ate lunch, was built in
honor of Mary Butler Markley,
who worked closely with alumni.
Your study group met in Hatcher-
Graduate Library, named in honor
of past University President Har-
lan H. Hatcher. You ended your
day with a concert at Hill Audito-
rium, which was built with money
bequeathed by former University
Regent Arthur Hill.
However, it isn't by chance that
every building you visited today
was named after an individual. In
fact, almost every building across
campus has been named in honor
of a prominent Universityleader or
a generous donor.
NAMING RIGHTS
The staff at the Office of Devel-
opment determines building and
program names following a very
specific set of procedures that dic-
tate who can name facilities and
the individualfor whom they can
be named.
See SERIES, Page 3A


MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
At weekly meeting,
MSA officials debate
community concerns

A WILD ADVERTISEMENT

ALMA MATTERS
Alumni plates, a
boost in profit,
pride for the 'U'

After history of
disruptions,
assembly considers
restricting speakers
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
Last night, the Michigan Stu-
dentAssemblydiscussed aresolu-
tion that, if passed, would revamp
the way community members are
allowed to address the assembly.
In the past, the "community
concerns" portion of the agenda
has been known to take up long
stretches ofmeetingtime.
In the last two semesters, MSA
meeting agendas were routinely
derailed during the community
concerns portion of the evening
by local activists promoting their
side of issues sometimes not
directly related to campus affairs.
Michael Benson, chair of the
Rules and Elections committee,
authored the resolution along
with Student General Counsel
Jim Brusstar. Benson said there
were more problems with the
community concerns time last
. year than this semester.

"When people are coming in
speaking to things that MSA has
no control over, or that MSA can-
not affect, it's a waste of time,"
Benson said.
The resolution would shorten
the time allotted to each speaker
from five minutes to three min-
utes.
It would also require speak-
ers to present a valid, unexpired
MCard. Those without a Univer-
sity affiliation would be able to
apply for time with MSA execu-
tives at least two business days in
advance.
Benson said the assembly
"wants to remain open." He said
the resolution is not intended to
discourage community members
from coming to speak.
But some representatives are
wary of the resolution's implica-
tions.
Public Heath Rep. Hamdan
Yousuf expressed concerns over
limiting the rights of community.
members tospeak duringthegen-
eral meetings.
"I don't think any democratic
body can say give me your valid,
unexpired MCard if you want to
speak," he said. "We don't need to
have all of these crazy rules about
See MSA, Page 3A

Sin
net
Uni
On
school
Tho
showir
es of I
raised
the Ur
other s
In
progra
al, one
the an
state
makes
the u
$25 fr,
direct]
the pla
Foll
ment,c
vehicle
additi
goes

ice 2000, $3.2M featured on the plate.
Each campus of the University
ted for all three of Michigan offers unique license
plates for their supporters.
versity campuses Between all three campuses,
there are a total of 245,331 Uni-
By ALLIE WHITE versity license plates on the road,
For the Daily which has translated into $3.2
million in revenue for the Univer-
Michigan license plates, sity since the program began in
pride goes a long way. 2000, according to Kelly Chesney,
se alumni license plates spokeswoman for Secretary of
ng the collegiate allegianc- State Terri Lynn Land.
Michigan's motorists have With roughly 9 million plated
some serious money for vehicles in Michigan, the Univer-
niversity of Michigan and sity of Michigan is represented
chools in the state. on almost 3 percent of all cars in
Michigan, drivers in the the state.
m must pay an addition- Last year alone, the Univer-
-time fee of $35 on top of sity of Michigan received around
tnual registration fee the $381,000 in revenue from the
requires. While the state plates, according to Cynthia Wil-
no additional money from banks, vice president for govern-
niversity plate program, ment relations at the University.
om the additional fee goes The target of those funds is
ly to the school featured on left up to the discretion of each
tte. school.
owing that initial pay- At the University, the money
drivers must pay the state's has, been routed to University-
e registration fee plus an affiliated outreach activities.
anal $10 each year, which The revenue contributed to
directly to the university See LICENSE PLATES, Page 3A

MIARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Jared Hawkley, an intern for campus non-profit group 826michigansdirects movie-
goers into the Michigan Theatre last night to see a sneak peek of the new film
"Where the Wild Things Are" based on the book of the same name.



WEATHER HI: 61
TOMORROW LO: 52

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Hoops squads look forward to "Michigan Madness"
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEW S ................2..............2A CLASSIFIEDS ...................... 6A
Vol. CXX, No. 22 OPINION ..A SPORT ......-... .............7A
©2009TheMichigan Daily ART ......................... A T STAT M NT ............
@209chr e MilychR S.................. A T ES A E E T ........1



0

2A - Wednesday, October]7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom



MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers
LSA senior Jillian Geyer
rode her firsc pony at age five
at a renaissance fair in Roches-
ter, Mich. Sixteen years later,
it's a passion she can't seem to
shake.
Geyer is a competitive
horseback rider and treasurer
for the University's Equestrian
Team- dubbed "The E Team"
by its members - whose goal
is to provide an outlet for stu-
dents who are passionate about
horseback riding.
Students compete in a num-
ber of regional competitions
throughout the year. The
region is made up of Michi-
gao universities- including
Michigan State University and
Oakland University -and one
Canadian competitor, the Uni-
versity of Western Ontario.
The two teams ranked the
highest in the region qualify
for zoned competitions, and
the two highest ranked teams

TUESA:WDESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Off the Beaten Path Cmu lb Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

Ri ding high
from each zone compete at
nationals.
Teams from Ohio, Kentucky
and Michigan all compete in
the same zone.
The last time the Univer-
sity's team reached zone com-
petitions was two years ago,
though it didn't qualify for
nationals. But LSA senior Kim
Leaman, the team's president,
said she thinks that this year
the team's chances are "pretty
good."
Students interested in
competing can choose from
either the Western or Hunter/
Jumper riding styles. Western
is a more modern style, while
Hunter/Jumper is a more clas-
sic, English technique.
Of the team's SO members,
only two are male.
"It's pretty laid back and
easygoing," Geyer said. "We
spend a lot of time together
and develop close bonds."

Aside from participating in-'
competitions, the team hosts _ n{
dinners, rodeo trips, movie ,r
nights and a variety of other a
activities. In addition, at the 4;
end of the season the team {
holds annual "Paper Plate
Awards," during which team
members joke about the year's
funny memories.,
"Last year I was injured
four times and still continued
riding. I was awarded 'The
Strength Award,"' Geyer said.
The team practices every
other week at Willowbrooke
Parm, a small ranch in Plym-
outh, Mich., less than 10 miles
from the University..
"I think it's a sport that you cnd tayae"Laa
said. "I saw one woman at a,
show who looked like she must
have been about 83. I hope I'm-
still showing at that age." COURTESY OF THtEOUtSTRIAN TtAM
LSA senior Jillian Geyer, treasurer of She University's tquestrian Team,
- MICHELE NAROV rides during an event.
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

430 Maynard Sr.
Ann Arbor, Mt 4810971327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMPAN
Editor is Chief Busisess Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0058
gaca@michigandaityrom ersdhosinesa@arrait~cem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom OOfiehoursoSu.-Thors. 1e.m. - 2 a.m.
News Tips newse@michigandaiy.comv
torrections correctiona@m~ichigandaiy.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com,
Photagraphy Department photo@nmichigaedaily.con
Arts Section artspagoemichigandaily.com,
Editorial Pate opinion@emicigadaiy.o
Sports Section spors@michigandailyvcom
Display Sales display@emichigaedaiy.vom
tiassified Sales classified@michigandaily.com,
Online Sales oeeseeade@nmichigandaiy.coa
Finance finance@michieandaily.ran
EDITORIAL STAFF
tnurtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@ichigandaily.coem
Jacab Smilositz Managing NewsEditoresmilvitiz@nmichigandaily.eee,
SEORNsWnSoDnoeS Mat, Aaronson, Jiljo, O Bea, TrevrCaer, ,Jeans
Skol,1KyleOSwnson~~
ASSIS0TAN0NWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, EmilOly ,Stepnie
Steinberg, Esha hrunaevukkaraso
Robert SOase EditorilPae Eoditor soae@emichieandail.aom
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGEEDITRS:OEma eszke, Mte Shutlh~er
Andy Reid Managing Spotditer reid@miehigandailyveem
SEOSOTS EnsOS:osle 1,Auerbach, Mie isein,Ia a, Rut~noh
Linolnr, Alex Pmseri
Kae, C,,hrMoesza ros, RPdges
David Watnith ManagingArsEteor ' sareivk~michigandailyeam
SENIORARTSEDITORS: JamieBlock., radoConrdi,aWitny Pow
ASSISTNTsnARnS EOS:o shua aery,CaolynoKlaecki.i,dew Lapin, oDavRv
Zachary Meisner and ehoto@reichiandaiy.eenn
Ott eeder Maeogigl'heto Editors
SENIOR PHOOEDITORS:Said Alsalh, Chael Vo Habsbug-Lothringen
ASSISTNTO5TO EIO RS:OOMx olli,eChiODzombak, Sm oon
Angela Chih anddeign@meichigandailyvcom
MaureenStych ManaginenEoditors
Jessicatlnsgenthian Magazin ditrrvoeeerehiae@nmichiandaity.com,
Katherine Mitchell CopyrChine nmitcherl@michigandaily.com,
ASSO0I0T0 COPY CHIE: elaie ie, 00 Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak SaesnnManger
SALES F0000 MANAGER: MolyTvwigg
Ryan Businski ClassifnedManager
CLASSIFIEDASSISTANTO MANAG ER: KylaLaeata
Ben English Productioonoanaer
AllisoniSantacreU LaoutorManaer
Vivian LeeeFisaeMnaer
Brittany MonalesCrculationeanger
Brad Wiley Prnecyt Coordinanto
ThMign alSSN 075-96) i pulie onda ruh Fri ,a intefleand wine
tesiby setsate iversi fCichiga.ee.opy s a vailable free oficharoalllreaders
Addtionlvcoie ay eicked upathDiry'zlns oier$2. Susripins for fall tem, startig in
Septebe, viaUi.S.al ae $110.intereer(aenua ryg il) is115yearlongSeptemer
through Api) is$195.SUnveiyaffiiaes ae subet to arededsubsription rt. .On-caepus
sustovyivnsforfalvrnae $35.Sscrvefnivvssieprepe6dThersidhiget~anieeeof .
Tvhesociaed ressanmnheAoiedvClleaePnes.

CRIME NOTES

Stranger searches Car crashes into Sen. Hagel at Punch Brothers
for sub sandwich garbage can Ford School performance

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 4:30
WHAT: A male not affiliated
with the University was roam-
ing the hospital hallways beg-
ging for food, University police
reported. He was escorted
from the grounds and then
released from custody.
Assaulter turns
himself in
WHERE: Courthouse
WHEN: Monday at about
10:35 p.m.
WHAT: A male with an out-
standinghbench warrant for
domestic assault turned him-
self into the police, University
police reported.

WHERE: University Parking
Lot M-53
WHEN: Monday at about 7
p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle was acci-
dentally backed into a trash
compactor, University Police
reported. The male was unaf-
filiated with the University
and no one was hurt.
Bag bagged
WHERE: Central Campus
Recreational Building
WHEN: Monday at about
10:35 p.m.
WHAT: A bag containing a
debit card and cell phone was
stolen when the male student
left it unattended, University
police reported.

WHAT: Chuck Hagel, former
U.S. senator and author of
"America: Our Next Chapter,"
will lecture and lead a discus-
WHO: Pord School of Public
Policy
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
B~alroom
Exhibit at the
Museum of
Dentistry
WHAT: The Sindecuse
Museum of Dentistry exhib-
its Dental Operatories of the
1860s to 1930s, and artifacts
honoring St. Apollonia, the
Patron Saint of Dentistry.
WHO: School of Dentistry
WHEN: Tonight from 8 a.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Dental & W.K.
Kellogg Institute

WHAT: The Punch Brothers
will perform their version of
the genre, a mix of bluegrass,
jazz and classical music.
WHO: University Musical
Society
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts
Polaroid exhibit
of Windy City
WHAT: Artist CynthiaoDavis
displays her hand-altered
Polaroid images of the Windy
City from her book, "Chicago."
WHO: Gift of Arts
WHEN: Today from 8 a.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: University Hospi-
tals, Taubman Center
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
iuthe Daily to correc--
tions@michigandailycom.

1An 87-year-old woman from
Idaho mistook her hearing
aid for a Milk Dud, the Ore-
gonian reported. "As S enjoyed
the chocolate and caramel taste,
it appeared that one of my Milk
Duds was not as fresh as the oth-
ers," Violet Bishop told the Ore-
gonian. "One was rather crunchy
andS Icould not get it tosoften up,
no matter howbhard I tried."
2Mole contraceptive was
on the brink of commer-
cial availability before
the pharmaceutical industry
halted its development.
ssFOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
3Daniel Blackner, a British
dwarf who was perform-
ing in the 'Edinburgh Pen-
rival," accidently glued his penis
to p vacuum cleaner, the Daily
Mail reported. Blackner, known
as "Captain Dan the Demon
Dwarf," was rushed to the Edin-
burgh Royal Infirmary, but-was,
released after an hour.

LoCre Net oeonline a michigandaily.com/ogs/the wire

0~Thurs days are BA CKI
SIh

oe &0



The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October], 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Commerce secretary
says clean energy key
to Midwest's future
U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary
Locke told representatives of
Midwest states yesterday that the
growth of clean energy industries
is key to the region's economic re-
covery and future.
Locke said new federal efforts
such as a one-stop office in the De-
troit area to make his department's
services more accessible to busi-
nesses are part of a broader push to
jumpstart job creation.
"Our fight to build a new, clean
energy economy is just getting
started and it is a fight that we
simply must win," Locke said. His
remarks kicked off a two-day Mid-
western Governors Association's
Jobs and Energy Forum in Detroit.
Locke said the CommerceCon-
nect pilot program, if it's success-
ful, could be expanded to other
areas around the country. A ribbon
cutting was held yesterday at the
office in Plymouth, about 20 miles
west of Detroit. Staff will act as
case workers for individual busi-
nesses that seek assistance.
WASHINGTON
Schwarzenegger
supports health
overhaul goals
California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger praised President
Barack Obama's drive to overhaul
the nation's health care system yes-
terday and urged fellow Republicans
to join in efforts to finish the job this
year.
Although Schwarzenegger
stopped short of embracing a Demo-
cratic bill, his words of encourage-
ment came on the heels of similar
statements from other Republicans
outside Congress, including former
Senate Republican leader Bill Frist
The White House and Democrats
highlighted them as evidence of
momentum and division within GOP
ranks. Congressional Republicans
havebeennearlyunanimousinoppo-
sition to Democratic legislation.
Schwarzenegger, who two years
ago tried but failed to pass a univer-
salhealth care plan in California,said
in a statement that he appreciated
Obama's partnership with the states
and his effort to hold down costs
and improve quality. He urged law-
makers from both parties to "move
forward and accomplish these vital
goals for the American people."
STOCKHOLM
Three Americans
share 2009 Nobel
Prize in physics
Three Americans whose 1960s
research laid the foundation for
today's world of computerized imag-
es andlightning-fastcommunication
shared the 2009 Nobel Prize in phys-
ics yesterday for their work develop-
ing fiber-optic cable and the sensor
at the heart of digital cameras.
Charles K. Kao, 75, was cited for

discovering how to transmit light
signals over long distances through
glass fibers as thin as a human hair.
His 1966 breakthrough led to the
creation of modern fiber-optic com-
munication networks that carry
voice, video and high-speed Internet
data around the world.
"Whatthewheeldidfortransport,
the optical fiber did for telecommu-
nications," said Richard Epworth,
who worked with Kao at Standard
Telecommunications Laboratories
in Harlow, England in the 1960s.
"Optical fiber enables you to trans-
mit information with little energy
over long distances and to transmit
information at very high rates."
WASHINGTON
Obama nominates
2 for appeals court
President Barack Obama is nom-
inating two people to appeals court
posts.
The White House announced
yesterday that Obama will nomi-
nate New York District Judge
Denny Chin for a seat on the 2nd.
Circuit Court of Appeals, based in
New York.
He also will nominate Rhode
Island Superior Court Justice O.
Rogeriee Thompson for the 1st Cir-
cuit based in Boston.
Obama says the two have dedi-
cated themselves to public service
and calls them qualified additions
to the appeals court.
Both nominations require Sen-
ate confirmation.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

SERIES A
Gendr-netralFrom Page lA

housing to get
'serious look'
from University

From Page 1A
ford University.
University Housing Spokes-
manPeterLogansaidhe is aware
that other. universities offer a
gender-neutral option, and that
he has been in contact with offi-
cials at those schools to explore
the option.
"We're watching those
schools and are in touch with
them so we can see what their
experiences and successes have
been," he said.
Logan said gender-neutral
housing is currently available
to students on an individual
basis. But those students must
approach the University on their
own to be considered for the
option.
Students must work with a
staff liaison to get an accommo-
dation that best fits their needs,
but according to the University
Housing website, there is no
guarantee students interested in
the option will receive it.
The website also states that
students are assigned rooms
according to their birth gender,
regardless of how they iden-
tify themselves. The University
will not consider accommoda-
tions for people unless they have
undergone sex reassignment
surgery.
Steele said the ACLU has con-
cerns about the current housing
policy, especially because, she
said, it is very uncommon for
college students who identify
as transgender to have already
undergone sex reassignment
surgery. Steele said that only
havingthe gender-neutral option
for post-op students is extremely
restrictive.
"This part of the policy sup-
ports the idea that a person's
body must look a certain way in
order for them to be treated as
the gender with which they iden-
tify," she wrote in the e-mail.
Steele said the current hous-
ing policy is biased in its gender

assumptions.
"It assumes two roommates
cannot be in a relationship if
they are the same gender," she
said. "It assumes women and
men cannot be just friends or
roommates.
"It demands that women are
fundamentally different from
men, and they should be segre-
gated," she continued. "I, and
many other students, believe
that the dorms should not be
divided along the traditional
gender binary."
Jackie Simpson, director ofthe
Spectrum Center, said the ideaof
gender-neutral housing is still in
its preliminary stages and that
students at the University have
been pushing for gender-neutral
housing for several years.
While she is hopeful, Simp-
son said she doesn't know when,
or even if, the proposal will be
implemented at the University.
Steele said ACLU group mem-
bers understand their proposal
will probably not be enacted
immediately, but that she hopes
the University will soon take
steps to implement the change
in policy.
"I live in the dorms, and I
believe our community could
benefit from gender-neutral
housing and would be strongly
supportive of a change to hous-
ing policy," she said.
Simpson said that with stu-
dent interest for the option, the
Spectrum Center is planning to
focus more intently on bringing
the option to campus.
"It would be important for
us to have a conversation and a
dialogue about (gender-neutral
housing) campus-wide, given
that students are interested in
the University looking into this,"
she said.
Logan said University Hous-
ing officials first need to see if
the larger student population
is interested in the option, but
added that officials are giving it
a "serious look."

The process of determining who
names buildings and facilities in
honor of individuals is not simple.
Depending on the size, location and
use of the facility in question, nam-
ing rights could simply be deter-
mined by the head of a department
or could require a vote by the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents.
In the case of new buildings,
naming rights are often given to
the donor who provides substantial
financial support, at least 50 percent
of a building's fundraising goal or
at least 33 percent of its estimated
construction cost. The donor can
then request to have the building
named after him or her, or suggest a
name for the building. For example,
donors who gave gifts for the con-
struction of the Michigan League
asked that the structure be called
the Michigan League. This same
situation occurred for the Michigan
Union and Alumni Memorial Hall.
The Facilities Naming Steering
Committee - chaired by the vice
president of development and com-
prised of the University's provost,
executive vice president for academ-
ic affairs, executive vice president,
chief financial officer and executive
vice president for medical affairs -
sends naming recommendations to
the University Board of Regents for
buildings that exceed $75 million in
cosa The regents then must approve
the recommendation before the
building can be named. In contrast,
the regents are not required to
approve names for small additions
or expansions to buildings, but the
Facilities Naming Steering Commit-
tee still must approve the name.
Similarly, regents do not need to
approve the naming of small inte-
rior or exterior spaces - includ-
ing benches, bricks and plaques.
Instead, the head of the department
where these items are located can
name them.
According to the Guidelines
for Naming Facilities, Spaces and
Streets, regents do not need to
endorse the names of individual
rooms or large interior spaces unless
the name is "unusually prominent,
sensitive or subject to heightened
public interest"
For large exterior spaces acces-
sible to the public - like plazas,
fields and malls - the.regents must
approve honorific names. But they
do not need to review names for
small exterior spaces like court-
yards.
The regents may name a building
inhonor oflivingor deceased donors
who have provided long-term finan-
cial support and have no existing
buildings named after them.
For a building to be named in
honor of a University leader, one
year must have passed since the
individual held the position for
which he is being honored. Simi-
larly, for buildings named in com-
memoration of a deceased leader,
one year must elapse between the
individual's death and when the
building is named.

ing donations, Halloran said that cialized expertise that helps donors
each donor is assigned a Major make larger gifts than they might
Gifts officer. The officers work with otherwise to the University, which
donors to plan how their visions can allows for additional funds to sup-
become realities on campus. port education of students, top
Major gift officers are assigned quality research, hiring and sup-
a geographic region to work with porting excellent faculty, providing
and they manage all the major outstanding health care - all the
donors living in that area. In addi- myriad things the University does
tion to working with existing major to make a difference," Fox said.
donors, Halloran said major gift Fox said the eight-year Michi-
officers'work with alumni and other gan Difference Campaign greatly
individuals living in the region who increased the number of planned
may be interested in making sizable gifts to the University - totaling
contributions to the University. nearly $600 million overthe course
"We have development officers of the campaign.
who are assigned a particular geo- Within the Office of Gift Plan-
graphic area of the country, and ning, donors can give ina variety of
it's their responsibility to know ways, includinglife income gifts and
that region really well, to know the bequests.
alumni who live in that region and Life income gifts are donations
to make linkages for those individu- in which a living donor gives a gift
als back to the University around and receives compensation in the
areas of interest that they have - form of a tax deduction. However,
both for information for volunteer with life income gifts, the Univer-
roles they may wish to play and ulti- sity does not have immediate access
mately for philanthropic support," to the funds.
Halloran said. Additionally, either the donor or
However, Halloran stressed that the donor's representative receives
even though most people think a fixed income strain from the Uni-
about major giving as large dona- versity for a period of time or the
tions of money, it can also come in duration of his or her life. When the
the form of donors volunteering income strains are no longer paid,
substantial amounts of time to serve usually when the donor dies, the
on University committees and advi- University receives the remainder
sory boards. of the money.
One such duo of volunteers and According to Fox, the majority of
major givers is David and Jan Bran- life income gift donors are middle-
don, both of whom have served as aged University alumni who are
volunteer leaders at the University nearing retirement and have earned
and significant donors to projects on wealth from accumulating assets
campus. over the years.
The Brandons have given back to But donors who participate in gift
several units on campus that have planning are not exclusively Univer-
in some way impacted their lives, sity alumni.
including the Athletic Department, Fox said people donate to the Uni-
the C.S. Mott Women's and Chil- versity for a wide range of reasons,
dren's Hospital, the School of Edu- like supporting medical research,
cation, the Ross School of Business the arts and academics.
and the University of Michigan She cited donors who have con-
Museum of Art. tributed after a family member ben-
Brandon, who served as a Uni- efited from treatment received from
versity regent from 1999 -2006, said the University's Health System, as
he and his wife decided to become well as people who have an interest
involved in the renovation and in the arts and want to support the
expansion to'UMMA because they University Musical Society or the
both have an interest in art. University's Museum of Art.
"We just thought that was very While many donors give major
consistent with an interest that we donations through life income
had and something that we thought gifts, the University also receives a
would be good for the community great deal of major support through
and so that became a focal point," he bequests from donors' estates upon
said. "We supported that financially their deaths.
as well asbeingvolunteers. In a bequest - the most com-
For major donors who opt to give mon type of planned gift - a donor
money, the process often starts with includes a provision for the Univer-
smallgifts soonafter graduation and sity in his or her will in which the
.. . University recciyeppartof his other
,,..,. ___ estate.


LICENSE PLATES
From Page 1A
the School of Nursing's Com-
munity Family Health Center,
which Wilbanks said "provides
outreach for access to health
care to at-risk and underserved
populations."
In the past, support has also
gone to the Michigan Marching
Band, the Ginsberg Center for
Community Service and Learn-
ing, which received $15,000,
and funding for the pilot pro-
gram for Semester in Detroit,
which received about $116,000.
Though the state offers
more than 20 personalized
plate options, the University of
Michigan's plate remains one
of the state's top sellers, com-
ing in third after the "Proud
to be an American" plate and
one that features the Michigan
State University logo.
"I think it is a good way to
show your pride," Wilbanks
said. "The revenues that come
from those plates help to sup-
port a variety of activities that
I think all institutions are
using to further expand their
MSA
From Page 1A
who can come in and address us.
If someone wants to come in and
address us they can. They have the
right."
The proposed change also
includes giving priority to people

reach into the communities
around the state, which is a
good thing."
Started in 2000, the univer-
sity plate program offers logos
from Michigan's 15 state uni-
versities emblazoned license
plates through the Secretary of
State's office.
Chesney said the program is
a way for residents, friends and
alumni to "show their pride in
the university of their choice."
University of Michigan
Alumni Association members
and other universities' sup-
porters took steps to include all
of Michigan's state universi-
ties in the program as early as
10 years ago, when the plates
became popular elsewhere in
the country.
After interest was expressed
in university plates, action was
taken and legislation enacted to
include all of Michigan's state
universities in the program,
according to Wilbanks.
"The legislation permitted
the state to issue these license
plates, and the universities
were instrumental in lobbying
the legislature to permit that to
happen," she said.
speaking about specific agenda
items and shortens the time allot-
ted for guest speakers from 30
minutes to 20 minutes.
Though it was debated tonight,
theresolutionwillbe voted ondur-
ing next week's meeting.
- Caitlin Huston
contributed to this report.


MAJOR GIFTS

With the high stakes of keeping a
major donor happy, the University's
Office of Development has a Major
Gifts department that works to
maintain positive relationships with
donors and demonstrate howdonors'
resources can be used .to maintain
the educational experience students
receive at the University.
Though it may seem easy to clas-
sify the largest donors to the Uni-
versity, there is no central policy
that determines who falls into this
category.
Beth Halloran, assistant vice
president for development, said
some of the larger schools and col-
leges consider donations of$100,000
or more as major gifts, while small-
er schools, colleges and units deem
$25,000 a major gift.
For the most part, Halloran said
the majority of major gift donors are
between 50 to 70 years old, since
older individuals have had more
time to accumulate wealth - though
she said this is not always the case.
Additionally, Halloran said that
for many major donors, their gifts
aren't about the dollar amount writ-
ten on the check but rather about
signing their name on the check and
lending their credibility to the suc-
cess of the project.
"(They think) this is significant,
this defines who I am, this helps me
realize a dream that I've had in my
life about who I wan'tto be, this helps
me partner with my alma mater
about who I want them to be," Hal-
loran said. "Those visions and values
are really much more central to our
work than the commas and zeros."
Halloran said that becoming
a major gift donor is more than a
financial investment.
"It's also an identity invest-
ment, and it's also a legacy invest-
ment," Halloran said, explaining
that donors make public statements
when deciding to support a par-
ticular area like a museum, medical
research or an academic unit.
To help donors work through
these decisions to make life-chang-


Fox said that bequests are flex-
"Those visions and ible giftsbecause donors can change
the amount duringlanypointintheir
values are ... more life.
"It's a great way a donor can
central to our work plan to make a difference and leave
themselves total flexibility to use
than the commas those funds as they need to during
their lifetime," Fox said.
and zeros. Donors also have a great deal of
control over what their donations
will be used for. Once a donor puts
restrictions on a gift, the University
over time grows to levels where the has a legal obligation to use the gift
Major Gifts Office will get involved. as specified, Fox said.
"We work with existing donors Fox said many donors give money
who are major givers, those who to establish scholarship funds in a
may become major givers, people school or college. Othersgive to sup-
who we're led to believe may have port research in a particular area of
an interest in giving to the Universi- 'study.
ty," Halloran said. "Every officer has If there are no restrictions on a
some existing relationships, some donation, the University can use the
who have raised their hands asking money at its own discretion. But if an
about a new relationship and some alum makes an unspecified contri-
that we are proactively seeking to bution, the University will typically
engage in a relationship." allocate the money to the school or
Before donors give major gifts, college the alum attended.
development staff contact donors Fox said that it is very rare that a
through a letter, e-mail or a phone donor will donate his entire estate to
call and ask to meet with them in the University because people tend
person. to leave their assets to their families
Halloran said that development or charities.
officials do this to hear about the In the eyent that a donor leaves his
donor's "Michigan story" and learn or her estate to the University, the
what the donor wishes for his or person named by the donor to man-
her future relationship with the age the estate will sell the property
University. and give the net proceeds to the Uni-
The officer then describes the versity. If the donor leaves real estate
cost of turning the donor's visions to the University, the Office of Gift
into realities and leads a discussion Planning will work to sell the prop-
to determine what kind of gift the erty and use the money for whatever
donor feels comfortable giving. purpose the donor intended.
Halloran said that officials occasionally, the University will
ensure the donor understands his keep the property if it can be used
or her financial obligations so that for education or research purposes.
there are no misunderstandings in Fox said that planned giving is
the future. just one element of a "donor's life
"By the time you're actually sit- cycle.of giving."
ting down with them and saying, 'I "It allows donors to give, as part
think this agreement captures what of their overall financial plan and
we've talked about,' there are no estate plan, in a way that maximizes
surprises," she said. the support they provide to the Uni-
versity by combining their personal
GIFT PLANNING financial goals with their charitable
goals," Fox said. "These are tools that
There are many ways for major help them make them meet both."
givers to donate to the University, Despite their greatest efforts, gift
though one of the more common planning office staff are still often
methods is through gift planning. surprised to discover that certain
The Office of Gift Planning helps individuals have named the Univer-
donors to make charitable donations sity in their wills.
while keeping in mind other finan- "It's not something they're doing
cial obligations. Today, nine Uni- with the University," Fox said.
versity employees work in the office "That's something they're doing
to organize planned gifts between with their attorney and their family
donors and individual schools and and their financial planner."

WANT TO WRITE
FOR DAILY NEWS?
Send an e-mail to
smilovitz@michigandaily.com
to get started.

colleges.
ShariFox, assistantvice president
for development, said that the office
of Gift Planning is responsible for
helpingto garner large donations to
the University.
"The Office of Gift Planning is
important because we provide spe-

THE DEVELOPMENT
SERIES, PART FOUR
The role that giant entities,
like corporations and
' foundations, play.


0

4A - Wednesday, October 7, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C C ic igan,40albl
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
R :Pot
X
State must make medical marijuana readily available
ast November, residents of the state of Michigan
demonstrated that the protesters who appear on the
Diag every April 20 aren't the only ones in favor of
marijuana. By approving Proposal 1, which legalized the use of
medicinal marijuana, voters signaled a new tolerance for mari-
juana - namely, that it should be available as a painkiller for the
sick. But despite Proposal l's approval, marijuana law is confus-
ing and has in some cases prevented sick people from exercising
their legal rights. To remedy the hastily assembled law's lack of
precision, the Michigan legislature must create legal channels
for the acquisition of the drug.
inresponsetoincreasingmedicalevidence illustrate the need for clarification of the
that marijuana could be a more effective and medicinal marijuana law, because police
less disruptive treatment for pain than drugs response is only a symptom of a larger
like morphine, an initiative to legalize the problem. Though the legalization of medic-
use of marijuana for medicinal purposes was inal marijuana was an leap forward in pain
placed on the November 2008 ballot. Michi- management, laws haven't created an ave-
gan voters approved the initiative with 63 nue for patients to actually use the drug.
percent of the popular vote. Patients with the Now the legislature needs to backtrack and
correct prescription and paperwork are now approve a framework for patients looking
legally allowed to grow and use marijuana to to buy medicinal marijuana.
manage severe pain. Luckily, there's an example Michigan
But in practice, enacting the initiative could follow. California, which legalized
has proven to be more difficult, as many medical marijuana in 1996, has set up several
have experienced difficulty in obtain- nonprofit "dispensaries" where patients buy
ing marijuana while navigating the law's the drug. This kind of system makes acquisi-
requirements. On Sept. 10, according to the tion safer and easier, and would make sense
Bay City News, police confiscated seven for Michigan, too.
marijuana plants from the porch of Ron But just as Michigan's drug policy starts to
Klug's home in West Branch, even though catch up to other states, California is already
Klug possessed the proper paperwork showing signs of legalizing marijuana for all
and was not in violation of the law (West people, and may have a ballot initiative on
Branch man says police seized legal mari- this issue in 2010. This development comes
juana plants, investigators say little about as national policy appears to be easing up as
ongoing probe, 09/17/2009). Incidents like well, with the Obama administration's drug
this show that police attitude has yet to czar, Gil Kerlikowske, deciding to leave drug
catch up to the law and the general public's matters mostly up to the states, focusing on
attitude - and that's unacceptable. The rehabilitation and safety rather than punish-
poliicg peed torpcggnize that the votersof ment. Thgg 9llpnges indicate that efforts to
Michigan approve of medical marijuana legalize recreational marijuana nationwide
and that sick people who want to use it are are forthcoming.
not breaking the law or harming anyone. Michigan shouldn't be behind this trend.
Similar police action has led the Michi- While the legislature should, for now, deal
gan Medical Marijuana Association to with the ambiguities of the medical marijua-
lead a march on the state capitol today to na law, the end goal should be legalization.

ROSE JAFFE

E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

es5nonv, uEVPc' (DO e
-~ -. - -
Bison meat and eternal lif

0

0

ell, my faithful readers -
my devoted fans, my lov-
ing audience (in short:
Mom) - today, I
am angry. And it's
notthesissy, liberal
elitist, I'm-going-
to-make-a-Face-
book-page-about-'
this-injustice kind
of anger. Not this
time. This time I
actually hit a wall. WILL
(With my fist.) Hit-
ting the wall hurt a GRUNDLER
LOT and reminded
me why I usually
just make Facebook pages when I'm
angry.
What happened was I had finally
written a compelling article about a
real issue - the future of the Michi-
gan Promise Scholarship, which I
know every student on campus is
worried about. Yet, when I gave it to
my editors, they told me it was com-
plete garbage and that I needed to
stop being an utter failure at life.
But who am I kidding? I can't stay
mad at people for long. (They were
probably joking anyway.) And now
I get to write about this fascinat-
ing Oct. 4 headline from the Associ-
ated Press about South Dakota: "SD
town gets rid of 44 tons of stinking
bison meat." (This is a real headline!
Google it!)
Actually, I don't have the privilege
to write about such a controversial
subject. Today's exciting and relevant
topic that I decided to write about the
last possible moment in the Fishbowl
late at night is - you guessed it -
mutant babies.
According to Maria Cheng of the
Associated Press, "Most babies born
in rich countries this century," -
sorry, America - "will eventually
make it to their 100th birthday, new

research says" (Most babies born this though less catchy, would be a pretty
century will live to 100, 10/01/2009). big deal.
Hey, this is some good news. That's Well, so much for that. There's
about thirty years more than the only so much you can do with that
average lifespan today. This is great kind of news. Unfortunately, I don't
news! But whose new 'research was have enough room now to talk about
it? Probably the University of Michi- the Promise Scholarship, so here are
gan's, right? some facts about the Fishbowl late at
This is the alarming part. The night:
research comes not from our pres-
tigioustuniversity but from Danish
scientists like James Vaupel of the
Max Planck Institute. That's right Let's talk about the
- once again, the University is let-
ting groundbreaking discoveries go Michigan Promise
to countries whose last major con-
tribution to humanity was the pas- ... at some point.
try. Come ON, Michigan! The polio
vaccine was great, but it's been fifty
years! Just what is our $7.6 billion
endowment going toward? 1. At 2 a.m., there are still enough
Cheng's article continues with people around that somebody gets
some astonishing information from annoyed when you scoot around on a
David Gems, an aging expert (prob- chair-break.
ably the easiest area in which to gain 2. No matter how long you keep
expertise, all things considered) at your arm raised, the tech guys won't
University College London who says, come over.
"Improvements in health care are 3. Spinning in place on your chair
leadingto ever slowing rates of aging, and looking up at your reflection in
challenging the idea that there is a the windows is amusing, but the more
fixed ceiling to human longevity. ... A Monster energy drinks you have had,
pill that slowed aging could provide the less amusing it is.
protection against the whole gamut 4. After blasting Ricky Gervais'
of aging-related diseases." "Freelove Freeway" for the 73rd time
Now, I'm no Biology or Health on YouTube, it's still awesome.
major - I'm pursuing Honors Theo- 5. Around 4 a.m., you start to won-
retical Particle Physics and a French der about the few people left, and if
minor, if you're wondering - and I they're wondering about you, and if
may not know what a "gamut" is, but love exists.
it's possible that extending our life- 6. At about 5 a.m., a person comes
times may NOT be such a great idea, around whose job is to spray all the
as it could allow the actors of "Cats" keyboards with a bottle of com-
to take the stage AGAIN. However, pressed air, and at this pointyou real-
that doesn't change the fact that the ize thatno ,matter how littlp sleep you
University needs to step it up if it get, your situation could always be
wants to remain competitive. Can you worse.
imagine the amount of press it would
receive if it developed the pill of eter- - Will Grundler can be
nal life? Even the pill oftextended life, reached at wgru@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed,
passionate writers to join the Editorial Board.
Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and writing the editorials
that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
ERIKA MAYER|
The ghost of my life yet to come

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Reid's article fails to note Republican Party needs to
problems of overtime rules embrace moderate members

TO THE DAILY:
In response to Andy Reid's article supporting
college overtime rules, I have to disagree with a
few of his points (You gotta love college football
overtime, 10/04/2009). While college overtime
is indeed exciting, arbitrarily starting with the
ball on the 25-yard line completely alters the
strategy of the game. Special teams (aside from
mid to short-range field goal kicking) are thrown
out for overtime and teams with game-changers
on special teams are put atla disadvantage.
The possibility of a kickoff return for a touch-
down or blocked punt is nonexistent with the
college rules. Though coaches always preach
that special, teams are just as important as
offense and defense, the overtime rules fully
contradict that.
Similarly, college overtime rules alter the nor-
mal play calling of both offenses and defenses.
Offenses with the ball first in overtime play much
more conservatively, rarely running plays where
they could lose yardage knowing that they have
to score at least three points to stay in the game.
Defensive play calling is altered as well
because of the small margin of error defenses
have by starting on the 25-yard line. Certainblitz
packages and plays incorporating deeper over-
ages are rarely utilized given the starting posi-
tion of the offense. While the college overtime
system makes sense in that it gives each team a
chance to have the ball, a new system should be
created taking the positive aspects from both the
college and NFL overtime systems. A coin toss
can decide who gets possession first.
But just like the beginning of the first quar-
ter, one team should kick off to another, meaning
special teams are not disregarded. If the team
with the ball first scores, then it has to kick-off to
the other team, and the game isn't over until each
team has an equal number of possessions. While
the college overtime rules do create excitement,
the so-called "football" played in overtime is not
true "football." All aspects of the game should
be incorporated while giving both teams a fair
chance at winning.
Jay Schwab
LSA junior

TO THE DAILY:
The Republican Party has been engaged in
an image debate that has become increasingly
more public since Barack Obama's election.
Should the party stick to its "core values" or
potentially compromise to attract new voters?
Paul Green, director of the Roosevelt University
Institute for Politics, said ina profile of Chicago
Young Republicans in the Chicago Tribune on
Aug. 12, "Young people coming up aren't going
to be excited by a party that is against abortion,
stem cell research and gay rights."
This is absolutely true. The GOP can not and
will not become the party of "No," nor is itcur-
rently. But some members of the party seem
not to mind the label. You know the ones I talk
about - the ones who seemingly cheered Chi-
cago's Olympic loss and worsening unemploy-
ment figures on the same day, and the people
who want Obama to fail so they can capitalize
in 2010. This is not the way to curry favor with
the electorate.
To avoid that detrimental label, the party
needs to realize that people with moderate
views regarding health care, abortion, etc., are
still Republicans. These members should not
be cast aside or labeled as not "real" Republi-
cans - they should be embraced. These kinds
of Republicans offer the best shot at growing
the party and winning over independent Amer-
ica. And in a country where more people label
themselves as independents then Republicans
or Democrats, the independents hold the key to
Congress and the White House.
This drama recently played out on our cam-
pus, in our own Republican Party, and the out-
come saddened me. A chairman with moderate
views in regard to abortion, the death penalty,
gun control and gay marriage was forced out
of office because his views didn't represent
those of the group. When elected members are
removed from office because their views are
not in accord with "the norm," it is a cause for
concern. I worry about the future of my party
if this is the path we choose to take.
Matthew Schaible
LSA freshman

Everyone is afraid of something - even that macho guy
who says he isn't (and it's usually something harmless like
bunnies). According to President Franklin Roosevelt, the
only thing we should fear is "fear itself." You've heard it
in school and from every adult you've ever known. Just
conquer your fear and you will be master of your own life,
blah blah blah. If you let fear run your life, you are just
giving in.
Just because most college students can recite this
advice like a Sunday school catechism doesn't mean that
we actually live it. Sure, we don't stay inside just because
we might fall and hit our heads outside - I'm talking
about sensible fear, not paranoia. But uncertainty about
the future is a different story.
I'm quickly approaching my 20th birthday. And though
I never thought of myself as Peter Pan, I find myself dread-
ing my birthday for the first time. Shedding my teenage
identity is quite possibly one of the scariest things I've
ever done. Responsibility and adulthood are staring me in
the face, and I'm not ready.
The weird thing about actually being in college is that
my path isn't already laid out for me. Throughout high
school, I was focused on graduating and getting into a
good college. For most people where I grew up, attend-
ing college wasn't even really a decision. It's just what
happened after high school. Even during high school, I
had very few real decisions to make about my education.
I took this math class and that English class and followed
the logical progression. Nowadays, my parents just look
at me blankly when I ask them what they think about my
proposed classes for next semester.
I tell people that I am a Political Science major as if
I've already declared, but I haven't. I feel like if I declare,
I'm accepting the responsibility to actually be an adult

some day. Like my reluctance to turn 20, the simple act of
declaring represents the inevitable march toward gradu-
ation and a real job.
I really don't know what I want to do with my life. Even
a little bit. I could be a lawyer or a politician. Maybe I
want to be a speechwriter, or I guess I could be a teacher.
Diplomacy has always sounded interesting. Public rela-
tions has been thrown on the table. To be honest, if my
theoretic table was real, it would probably take up more
space than Angell Hall.
To make matters worse, I'm surrounded by .examples
of people growing up. My best friend's sister has a job, a
house, health insurance and a cat. Patrick Zabawa, a for-
mer Daily coworker, now has a real job where he wears
dress clothes to work every day - except for casual Fri-
days - and has the power to fire people. My friends insist
on graduating and entering the real world with ridiculous
things like jobs and yearly salaries. This should make me
feel like I'm being left behind, but instead it just makes
me want to fight the inevitable pull out of Neverland into
adulthood.
And my advisor emailed me with a gentle reminder to
all sophomores that we should be thinking about declar-
ing a major soon. Great.
I have no idea where my life is going, and that's a scary
thought. But I can't let that fear stop me from actually
growing up. I don't really want to live with my parents
forever. One of these days, I'll have to actually get over
this fear and face my future. But for now, I guess I'll apply
to law school. And going to school for the rest of my life
isn't really an option. Theoretically, I want to have a job
and a family at some point.
Erika Mayer is an LSA sophomore.

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and
must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length,
clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

40


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 7~ 2009 - 5A

Young, brash and
ready to electro-rock

ByKRISTYN ACHO
For the Daily
Like so many gritty, Ray Ban-
wearing British
pop bands before **
it, The Big Pink
has created quite The Big Pink
a buzz. Between A Brief
loudmouthed
media remarks History of Love
like "Lily Allen is 4AD
a mouthy bitch"
(which was, in fact, a compliment)
and the band's sexually sugges-
tive name, it's hard to push all the
bullshit aside and take the edgy
London duo's music seriously.
It looks like The Big Pink's Rob-
bie Furze and Milo Cordell got the
memo, though. The loudmouth
tendencies that arguably made the
band famous have seemed to dis-
appear. For one, A Brief History of
Love's formerly X-rated album art-
work by Dennis Cooper has been
toned down. The new cover now
looks as though it could be found
in any hipster-haven record store:
it merely features an artsy photo of
a scantily clad woman placed under
the band's name.
Even though the duo's name
may pay homage to The Band's
twangy, homespun Music from
Big Pink, its musical influences
are much closer to the textured,
gloomy vocals of The Jesus and
Mary Chain circa Psychocandy.
Furze and Cordell, who produced
A BriefHistory ofLove themselves,
play into the semi-garbled to-fi
sound that seems to be dominating
indie rock right now, but they still
manage to make the tracks sound
fresh-and exciting.
The first single, "Velvet," is a
moody ballad, complete with muf-
fled electronic feedback that per-
meates the entire track. Produced
by Alan Moulder, who has previ-
ously worked with bands like My
Bo94yVaj tjpandThe Smahing
Pumpkins, the song has an experi-
mental quality that complements
Furze's soulful vocals. Through
streams of percussion and sound,
Furze's voice seems drowned out
by the music, creating a haunting
sonic backdrop.

"Crystal' Visions" and "Domi-
nos" are both layered with elec-
tronic synthesizers that explode
into intense guitar solos at their
choruses. In an album slightly
bogged down by slow, emotionally
laden tracks, these songs bring a
hard rock exterior that matches
the band's hip persona. "Dominos"
takes on the cruel nature of love
with pitiless lyrics like "Swallow
my sugar kiss and eat it alone"
and "I really loved breaking your
heart." The lyrics are twisted and
almost sadistic, aiming for the gut
and forgoing simple interpreta-
tion. These guys obviously have
some serious hang-ups and aren't
afraid to air their dirty laundry in
these songs.
Cordell, who also produced
electronic tunes for Klaxons,
Crystal Castles and The Teenag-
ers, has plenty of experience with
the electro-pop genre. His uncan-
ny ability to take synthetically dis-
torted "noise" and make it music is
on full display here. Still, while the
album's unpolished sound is both
innovative and appealing, at times
the listeners might feel like they're
sitting in on a musical experiment
A bit unpolished,
but still exciting.
rather than listening to a well-
composed album. In "Golden Pen-
dulum," a repetitive and grating
beat is juxtaposed with monotone
vocals, falling flat with its scat-
tered tinkerings.
A Brief History of Love is a pretty
hefty subject to take on in a debut
album, but The Big Pink proves
it's up to the challenge. Each track
sums up a unique aspect of love:
From the excitement of budding
romance ("Too Young to Love")
to painful, drawn-out breakups
("Love in Vain"), the London duo
touches all the bases. While A Brief
History of Love may at times feel
like a wonky experiment in elec-
tro music, its crooning vocals and
innovative sound make up for these
minute glitches.

"Hand over the Lean Cuisines and nobody gets hurt ... or exposed in one of my films."

Moore of the same

Do
cap
offc

Mic
spend
decryi
institu
capita
Unite(
but a t
it wil
you
dollar
talism
Story'
an ap
bleak
the Ax
and s
ences'
vague
mote:
A r
talism
emoti
when
a -funs
film a
convey
Even
ism" v
the th
sense
"Ca

dumentary grills structure than Moore's previous
films, jumps from story to story
italism, but can't after it makes its premise clear.
Moore delivers his hypothesis -
'r a better system that the abusive economic system
of free trade is destroying the judi-
By NICK COSTON cial system of American democra-
Daily Arts Writer cy - and then presents examples
of this destruction across the
hael Moore's latest film country. Moore is acutely aware
s more than two hours that a two-hour PowerPoint pre-
ing the sentation on the subject would be
ation of *- . boring, so he intercuts interviews
lism in the and pie charts with gaudy public
d States, Capilism: spectacles like cordoning off the
icket to see New York Stock Exchange with
I still cost A LOve Story policetapeand drivinganarmored
American At Quality16, car to the headquarters of varioust
s. "Capi- Showcase and banks, attempting to recoup the
: A Love the Michigan losses of the American people in
delivers person with a burlap sack.
propriately Overture No one can claim that Michaeli
account of Mooreisanobjectivefilmmaker.He
merican economic landscape has never pretended to give equal
uccessfully appeals to audi- billing to two sides of an issue. He
emotions, but it remains too is a man on a mission, armed with
in its declarations to pro- his camera and considerable wit, to
a genuine cultural change. deliver his opinion and his alone.
'ecommendation for "Capi- Moore is a subjective filmmaker,
" relies largely upon the and an exceptionally talented one
on the viewers want to feel at that. Not even his fiercest crit-
they watch a film. t's not ics could argue that Moore lacks
ny film, it's not an exciting the ability to engagingly deliver his
nd it's not entertaining in the message through film.
ntional sense of the word. It is with this talent that Moore
someone who loves "Capital- regales us with the story of the
will be hard-pressed to leave American economy's demise. He
eater feeling anything but a is somehow able to employ insur-
of hopelessness. ance policies and Citibank quar-
pitalism," more loose in terly reports as gripping narrative

tools and yet maintains the film's
sequence of events at a brisk and
involving pace. Moore's use of
archive footage, still images, voi-
ceover and an active camera show-
cases his expertise in the medium.
Traditionally, Moore's films
have been sharp in their focus,
especially upon the object of his
criticism. While "Fahrenheit 9/11"
leveled specific accusations of
wrongdoing against clearly iden-
tified individuals, "Capitalism"
paints in broader strokes, naming
the abstract concept of capitalism,
at least in its twisted and malfunc-
tioning application in the United
States, as the chief villain of the
fil, TheproBble, though, is that
there is no hero.
Moore's stated desire is noble.
He wantstocorrect the American
economic system so that hard-
working Americans can reclaim
their lost jobs and rediscover
financial stability. However, he
refuses to name a potential politi-
cal alternative to big, bad capital-

ism. He expertly reveals the sins
and pitfalls of the system and why
the country must scrap it but stops
short ofnamingits successor.
By avoiding an endorsement of
anotherconcrete economicasystem,
Moore plays it far too safe. He has
never cared about political back-
lash in the past, so it is disappoint-
ing, even for staunch supporters of
the current American economic
structure, that Moore is not bold
enough to identify what he thinks
is a better plan for America.
"Capitalism: A Love Story"
tells a vivid yet horrifying tale of
economic stagnation and decline.
Michael Moore has once again
proven himself to be a masterful
storyteller whose skills at eliciting
an emotional response from his
audience areunmatched. Unfortu-
nately, after presenting the prob-
lem and establishing it as a threat
to the future of the nation, he fails
to identify a viable solution to the
disaster in which he insists we find
ourselves.

.Cox catches nobody

By CHRISTINA ANGER
For the Daily
Older men have always been
chasing younger women. Recently,
however, older
women, or "cou-
gars," have been
on the prowl for Cougar Town
studly young
men - and these
women are con- at9.30 .m.
fidently scouring ABC
the dating scene.
"Cougar Town" stars Courteney
Cox ("Friends") as Jules Cobb, a
40-something recent divorcee with
a teenage son. She is afraid of stag-
nant life and exasperated by the
prospect of looking for a new mate.
ABC's new series has the poten-
tial to be a sexy, funny sitcom for
singles and the hitched alike. It
arouses, perhaps, some competi-
tive interest in its younger female
viewers to get off the couch and
snag their male peers before a cou-
gar gets her paws on them. As fun
as the title's wordplay is, "Cougar
Town" is a half hour of forced sexu-
ality and unrelatable situations.
And, if it must be said, that's noth-
ing to howl at.
At one point, Courteney Cox
was a character on a little series
called "Friends." The show was,
for teens in the '90s, an important
part of learning how to grow up and
deal with those awkward sexual
moments that would'undoubtedly
play an integral part of viewers'
futures. As the world continued
turning, those teens became adults
and Cox got older (but still, she's as
gorgeous as ever).
Even so, "Cougar Town," pre-
mieres with Cobb in front of the
bathroom mirror staring in disgust
at her aging body. With maybe five
pounds of extra weight around her
middle, slightly flabby upper arms
and inner thighs that barely touch,
Jules delivers the show's first fail-
ure by her character's agonizing
over her mostly perfect physique.
As if it isn't annoying enough to
have a cougar with a body poten-
tially more fit than the young men
she hunts, there are the show's

excruciating sexual moments that
are so awkward they're just not
funny. From the idea of little boys
fantasizing over posters of Cobb to
her teenage son casually walking in
on her performing sexual favors on
a man half her age, the situations
are repellent. The scenes might've
been funny if they weren't lightly
shrugged off by Jules, followedby a
sigh of"oh, Mom" from a delusional
son. A teenage boy should wretch
at the mere thought of his mother's
sexual lifestyle, right?
Adding to the show's problems,
Cox acts as a ditzy, raging woman
who scorns the idea of her mid-
dle-aged male neighbor getting
with tons of college-aged girls. Of
course, the remedy to her repul-
sion comes in the form of a young
man, solidifying her status as a
cougar in the dating world. (He
isn't even attractive enough to
waste a short stare on.) Cox is too
over-the-top in her acting, and she
seems less like a cougar and more
like a promiscuous 20-something.
It doesn't help that she doesn't
look a day over 3.
The series is overly scripted,
stupidly sexual and holds no basis
for a thoughtful plot whatsoever.
overly scripted,
stupidly sexual.
This cougar isn't a sophisticated
woman who lures young men into
her lair with a wit too mature for
them to comprehend - now that
would've actually been interest-
ing. There's no sense of female
empowerment, which is a stance
the show should have taken, It
would be simple and fascinating to
play off the intimidation cougars
have the ability to possess.
"Cougar Town," if not doomed
to failwithinanolder women audi-
ence, isnsure to fall off the radar (if
it ever makes it on anyone's) with
a younger generation who couldn't
possibly push Monica Geller aside
for the shallow character that is
Jules Cobb.

YOU FINE? LIKE ARTS? WRITE FOR FINE ARTS.
The Daily wants you.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an application.
Continues at Leigh

The College of Arts and Sciences at
Lehigh University seeks graduate
students who will contribute to a vibrant
community of scholars and join us
in exploring knowledge and practice
through innovative research. Experience
the individual attention usually found
in a small, liberal arts college; yet take
advantage of state-of-the-art laboratories, ,
libraries and research facilities offered
only at a premier research university.

Stop by our table at the
Graduate School Information Fair
on October 14 or discover
us online at
http://cas.lehigh.edu/discover.
L EH IGH

Discover Our Degrees in:
American Studies - M.A.
Biological Sciences - Ph.D.
Chemistry - MS., Ph.D
Clinical Chemistry - M.S.
Earth and Environmental
Sciences - MS., Ph.D.
English - M.A, Ph.D.
Environmental Policy
Design - MA.
History - M.A., Ph.D.
Mathematics - M.S., Ph.D.
Photonics - M.S.
Physics - M.S., Ph.D.
Political Science - M.A.
Polymer Science and
Engineering - MS., Ph.D.
Psychology - M.A., Ph.D.
Sociology - M.A.



0

6A-Wednesday, October 7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michiga

in daily

0

025
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprp.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
030 * *
1998 BMW 540. ,Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner.
734-429-2850 or bcrider@umich.edu
f fen
1060 a
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 20100
www.carlsnproperties.com
734-332-6000.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
1 CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Let's
make a deal. Avail. Fall '09. On
Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free offstreet
prkg, lndry, water inc. 734.223.7777.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunoom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
1 & 2 Bdrm. frn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldy., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
read the michigan
daily horoscope

PRESE NTS THE
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit mchgandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2 BEDROOMS AVAILABLE near
North Campus. Looking for female(s)
to rent either one of both bedrooms.
Furnishedor unfurnished. Must like
pets. 313-980-2271
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CatnpusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments .very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAI .9//10WIL iM & Dvi
s E I t.BdBrm. Units
Tower Plazaundryfcmility &s
aaesra lcs. GalainRelt
C 73-34-663-1530
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co.734-368-0256.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sio4. 36dr. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE NOW 1 bdrm. on S.
Forest near South U. 734-996-2836.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water 7., fully furnsited,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.

Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
~ ,Plzza ssm~
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
BASEMENT BDRM & Bath avail-
able. Free prkg, Indry, cable, util, heat.
Quiet, near campus, non smoking.
$450/mo. 1013 Rose Ave. Call CK
Eaton at 734-663-8925.
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Wshr/dryer in unit, $950/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani(@gmail.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
Done the
Sudokuye.

Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100

I7

Now taking reservations
for fal 2010!
Studios, 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 berms & Houses
See or7 i elos ofwww mHmana ama.<a""'"
!!! 4 LG. Bdrm. house. 5 person.
Mary Ct. at IM bldg. Ldry., prkg. May-
May $2210. 845-399-9904.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4 10.
WANTED GRAD STUDENT/ profes-
sor. New I bdrm. Chelsea apt. $625.
Util, elec., cable, DSL. Country hse on
100 acre nature preserve. 734-475-0291.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.
services
080
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nee., training provided.
AGE 18+OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 basetappt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
litp://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
smart@brainfuse.com
CALCULUS TUTOR $15/HOUR
734.763.5463.
VEFR
TISE
WITH

THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.CO M

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
LABORATORY RESEARCH AS-
SISTANT. U-M Dept. Human Genet-
ics, basic molecular biology lab duties.
Chemistry or biochemistry knowledge
required. 10 hours per week, consistent
schedule. Possible extension of posi-
tion thru summer 2010. Contact Dr. D.
Burke at dtburke@umich.edu or
647-3823.
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
300-$500. Get oan the ground floor...
Act Now! http://www.pslOl.info
OCCASIONAL HORSE BARN help
wanted. Experience pref. 995-0092.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100%FREEto join. Click on Surveys.

4

. MI
LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS to
help save and protect history and open
spaces on Mackinac Island. Needed
also active involvement of professors
and departments, to help to save areas
on the state park island, which has a
unique history and importance, nation-
ally, but especially, because it is owned
by us, to Michigan. 1-866-MAC-ISLE

4

4

4

- 7
2


fiCketS & fCVel
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

9
5

4
1

2
7



1
1
1
G
L
n
L
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
6
71
7

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Ice cream holder 44 Interpret via 57 "The Suze
1 Perform in a play 3 Oiplmat'sfne mouth Orman Show"
4 Skillnd 4 Has oncrush on monements channel
8 Check signers 5 NYC's Bronx, 46 Neatness 58 50-and-aver
14 1950Edmond e.g. 48 Parispalace org.-
O'Brien 6 Bread purchase 49 Moore of "Ghost" 60 City near the
suspenseclassic 7 Thus, to a 50 Maps within maps Sphinx
15 Sliding _ logician 53 Vice squad 61 Word before rain
16 Hide out 8.. win: go all out action or rock
17 49th state's 9 Afflict 54 A single time 62 Sewer rodents
largestcity 10 Beginning of 55"The African 64The "L" in XL:
20 Parking spot time, figuratively Queen" Abbr.
moneytaker 11 Film lioness co-screenwriter 65Goat'scry
21 Sly 12 Korean soldiers
22 Grating sound 13 Trade ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 1/80 at a min. 18 "Stepponwolf'
25"Washardon wrter Hermann C Y C L E S WA G D U S K
him?" 19 Way off the B E A L L TOUR O N C E
27 E.M. Forster turnpike SPRAT ANT I I R A N
classicset in 24 Young cow A M O N G T H E E N E M Y
fictional 26 LubricatesE
Chandrapore 27 Health Net rival
35 "What _ is 28One with a trade I R A O W N E R L A T I N
new?" 29 Movingabout A C R E E E L G A B
16 Washroom, 30Needle-toothed A M A S S A F O R T U N E
briefly fihbR ET I TO T E XT
37 Is ahead 31 Give the slip SL A N C N T E 0 E R
38 for tat 32 "Hawaii Five-O"
39 Houses with nickname L E G U M A T R E N D Y
sharply angled 33 Figureoftspeech A M A T E U R S P O R T S
roofs, and what 34mStars, in Latin L O V E G D A Y A N I T A
thispuzzle'sfour 39Thomas-_ ON E S G I L L T A G U P
longest answers EdisonS
literallynhave in 40 Scufftorscratch M Y S T Y K E A S N E R
common 41 Suffix with differ xwordedltoraol.com 1010629
42 Point to pick 1 a a s 0 8 10 11 12 13
3 Sam of "The
Piano" 14 s 1s
15 Dapper guy?
16 _ about: 17 18s1i
approximately2122
17 Classic Italian
"farewell" song 3 24 2 2
51 Far from tanned
i2 Conclude 27 29 2 22 31 32 33 34
3 Loud crowd noise
6 Community 3 03 37
service org.
9 Popeye's creator 2 2 a 41 42
13 Two-partdrama
that won two
Best PlaypTonps 4 s2
and a Best

LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at I1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-81650, No smkgno pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehlseng aelcomcasl.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-0
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665.
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
a.) read the daily
b.) do the crossword puale
c,} sleep and embarass yoursel

For Thursday, Oct. 8, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
This is ap excellent day for signing
contracts, buying and selling, negotia-
tions and any kind of discussions with
relatives and sihlings. Everyone is in
goad humor. Yay!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Business and commerce are favored
today. Think about how you can boost
your income or make a little money on
the side, It's a good day to work! Expect
positive results.
GEMINI
(May21toJune 20)
You feel quite happy today. The Moon
is in your sign, making a lovely relation-
ship with the Sun. This promotes all your
dealings with others in a positive way.
(Make the most of this.)
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Work alone or behind the scenes
today, because you can get a lot done!
Home and family are a big focus now.
Time spent alone will please you. You'll
particularly enjoy the privacy of your
home.
LEO
(July 23 to0Aug. 22)
Conversations with friends and
groups, especially female acquaintances,
will be especially positive today. Share
your hopes and dreams for the future
with others.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
People will notice you today, espe-
cially bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs.
You can make a great impression on
them, especially regarding financial mat-
ters or how you earn your money.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You feel vibrant, positive and very
happy today. It's a great day to make
travel plans or explore opportunities to

learn through classes and schooling.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You're in the right frame of mind to
discuss how to share something with
someone. You're willing to see how oth-
ers view something, which is very help-
ful.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Discussions with partners and close
friends are positive and productive
today. It's easy to align your feelings
with yiour logic. (If only it were always
this easy!)
CAPRICGRN
(Dec. 22 toJan. 19)
You'll be very productive at work
today because you have lots of positive
energy. This same upbeat energy can
apply to health issues or working with
small pets.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
This is a lovely day to party! Sports,
the entertainment world, show business,
playful activities with children and
romance can all blossom!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Family discussions will be positive
and successful today. It's also a good day
to entertain at home. Discussions with a
parent could reassure you about some-
thing.
YOU BORN TODAY You're highly
imaginative, and you're definitely a
romantic. You often are surprised that
others are amazed by what you do,
because to you, it's nothing unusual.
You're very bold about experimenting
with different lifestyles. You have good
money savvy. This year, partnerships
and close friendships will be your pri-
mary focus. However, in 2009, an
important decision awaits you.
Birthdate of: Matt Damon, actor;
Sigourney Weaver, actress; Frank
Herbert, author.

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

4

Miniseries Emmy
6 Freezing period
>7 Pesky kid
8 Acne spot
9 Clinton press
secretary Mpers
70 Taxntime VIPs
'1 Commercials
DOWN
1 Eve's mte

641 82
84 By ee ritin Mn~ ~,n 220 10/ 07/09

Deadline forline ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per line for each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- contact our staff for details
- Students may receive a 20% discountwhen adsare placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

4


I

I 1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 7, 2009 - 7A

'M' cruises in fall ball
BY LUKE PASCH ly cleared the grandstand in right
For the Daily field highlighted an eight-run second
inning for Michigan. Eastern Michi-
The Alumni Field announcer was gan never recovered from that blow,
sure to forewarn the crowd of the as the Eagles couldn't find a rhythm
relaxed nature of yesterday's Michi- at the plate.
gan softball team exhibition game The Wolverines tossed a no-hitter
against Eastern Michigan. in a combined effort from freshman
"This game will be played under Stephanie Speierman and junior Jor-
scrimmage rules, folks - which is, dan Taylor. Four innings of no-hit
pretty much anything goes," he said. ball and eight strikeouts sums up an
But fall ball doesn't mean relaxing excellent home debut for Speierman.
for the players. The Wolverines are "I felt good and comfortable out
looking to improve in all aspects of there," Speierman said. "Itfeltnice to
the game, especially after being upset finally pitch on Alumni Field."
by No. 8 Georgia in theWomen's Col- But Speierman's ability to baffle
lege World Series lastseason. the Eagles' hitters yesterday hasn't
"The goal for fall season is for given her false hopes about her role
everyone to get better and ulti- for the upcoming season.
mately play better than last spring," Michigan possesses a lethal one-
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins said. two punch in its pitching rotation
"Being good last season doesn't make between All-Americans Jordan Tay-
you good this time around -you still lor and Nikki Nemitz. They com-
need to earn it.Youneed to be hungry bined for 47 wins and 591 strikeouts
to do better." last year, including in Women's Col-
The team's preparation for the lege World Series play.
2010 spring season seems to be "Jordan and Nikkihave been great
going well. Pitching changes, ros- with showing me the ropes," Speier-
ter moves and pinch-runners were man said. "Ilook forward to learning
used at free will as the Wolver- alotandplayingbehindtwoexcellent
ines cruised to a 12-0 win over the pitchers this season."
Eagles. Michigan will be on the road this
Sophomore third baseman Maggie Saturday as the team wraps up fall
Viefhaus's two-run homer that near- play at Michigan State.
Wolverines look to
buck recent road woes

ZACHARY MEISNER/Daily
Fifth-year senior David Moosman has taken over at center while David Molk continues to rehab a broken foot.
Bigweek ahead for OL

BY ANDY REID game.
Daily Sports Editor Molk, whom Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez called one of
Through the first three games, Michigan's best players, was an
the Michigan football team's integral part of the line. A bevy
offensive line was a testament to of players have played somewhere
what stability can do for a team. on the line in the last two games
A year after producing some of as the group tries to find a solid
the worst offensive numbers in solution until Molk can come back
program history, the Wolverines in a few weeks.
were riding high as the No.1 scor- "We didn't play our best up
ing offense in the Big Ten and the front, but there were a lot of
No. 4 rushing offense in the coun- (players) that didn't play their
try. position," Rodriguez said. "But
Two games later - thanks they still competed. I'm proud of
largely to a dismal 28-yard ground the guys. There was no panic, and
performance against Michigan we know we can play better. But
State - the offense looks a lot there are a lot of things we've got
more vulnerable. And on the line; to fix."
the team is struggling with some During Monday's press confer-
of the same issues it had last sea- ence, Ortmann was still unclear
son. as to why the Spartans dominated
"It's tough to get in a rhythm the line of scrimmage as much as
when you're changing so much they did.
on a certain side of the ball," left The fifth-year senior said he
tackle Mark Ortmann said. "You watched the game .three times
saw it last year with the guard on Sunday - taking both good
position. It's hard to build the and bad things from it and still
communication with someone couldn't pinpoint exactly what
when you don't know maybe what went wrong.
their abilities are." But one thing was for sure: the
Last season, the Wolverines Spartan defensive line was quick,
struggled to find a group that which gave it a huge jump off the
gelled enough to become a con- bat.
sistent line. This season, they "Once you do that to an offen-
had found it - until center David sive lineman, they're in panic
Molk went down with a broken mode," Ortmann said. "It's not by
foot during the Eastern Michigan any sense a strength thing, and

that's why I hesitated to say they
out-physicaled us. They just beat
us off the ball.
"Watching the film, Michigan
State timed it up well and they
beat us off the ball. They almost
put us in the defensive mode."
Having gone up against both
Molk and his replacement David
Moosman in practice, defensive
tackle Mike Martin said Molk was
quicker with his off-hand, which
could help keep the defense out
of the backfield. But he also said
Moosman was very good at get-
ting his body'in front of defenders
quickly.
Whatever the problem, the
Wolverines need to figure out a
solution quickly. This Saturday,
they are traveling to a raucous
Kinnick Stadium to play Iowa,
which has one of the best defen-
sive lines in the nation.
"This will be maybe the biggest
challenge our guys have faced so
far this year, with the front seven
of Iowa," Rodriguez said during
yesterday's teleconference. "The
linebackers are very good, but.
their front four is outstanding."
The Hawkeyes blitz rarely and
only during critical periods, but
the front four is good enough to
get pressure on the quarterback
without extra help.
That will make things espe-
cially difficult for freshman quar-

terback Tate Forcier, because not
only will he have to avoid strong
pressure in the pocket, but he'll
have to pick apart as many as
seven Hawkeyes in coverage.
"When they don't beat them-
selves, they'll control the game,"
Rodriguez said of Iowa.
And up front, the Hawkeyes
excel at exactly what put the Wol-
verines on their heels last week -
jumping the ball.
"They're just very good up front
and very aggressive," Rodriguez
said. "They jump the ball well.
They get off the ball pretty quick.
So it's a good challenge certainly
for our guys. We'll have to play a
lot better than we did this past
weekend."
Of course, Molk's presence
would help bolster the line
against the toughest defense the
Wolverines will face all year. But
Rodriguez and Co. aren't making
excuses.
Instead, they will continue to
try to find a combination up front
that will click and a game plan
that will take down the vaunted
Hawkeyes.
"As coaches, we've got to get
them in some other players maybe
to help, and we just weren't sharp,"
Rodriguez said. "And when you
play a pretty solid team and you're
not sharp on the road, it's going to
cost you."

BY ZAKPYZIK
For the Daily
Michigan women's soccer head
coach Greg Ryan has more on the
line than usual this Sunday. The'
Wolverines head to East Lansing to
challenge No.20 Michigan State, and
Ryan's undefeated intrastate record
falls into the hands - or feet - of his
players.
Since 1999, the home teamhas not
lostagameintheMichigan-Michigan
State rivalry. The two teams ended
last year's match ina stalemate.
"Lyst yeer, we played on the road,
and I really didn't think that it had
much of an impact," Ryan said. "It's
close enough that a lot of Michigan
fans can get there. Last year, I did not
feel that it was an away game."
The team says being on the road
will not change the game plan, even
though Michigan has recently had
difficulty in away games, the Wol-
verines will visit the Spartans with a
1-5 road record.In hopes of reversing
this trend, Michigan will have to shut
down two game-changing Spartans.
Michigan State senior forward
Lauren Hill and sophomore forward
Laura Heyboer are a threatening duo
who have accumulated seven assists
and 15 goals for the fast-paced Spar-
tan offense.
"We can't defend them individu-
ally," Ryan said. "It's goingto take our
whole backline to try and keep them
quiet."
But even if the Spartans appear
to have the advantage, they will still
have to finda way to control Wolver-
ine junior Amanda Bowery.
Bowery, who plays both defense

and forward, is the only current
Michigan player who has scored in
thelast425minutesofplay-andshe
did ittwice.
The Wolverines will have to click
offensivelyquicklyinordertocounter
Michigan State's aggressive offense.
Freshman forward Holly Hein,
who netted game-winning goals
against Miami and Oakland, will
have a big role in trying to get Michi-
gan's offense to click. As a young
player going into hostile rival terri-
tory, it willbe a difficult task.
"I'm just excited to play in a big
rivalry game," Hein said. "We have
been playingreally well, we just need
to go out there and playthe same that
we would, anywhere, any day. We
need to build the attack and get the
numbers up."
Michigan's offense will have to
unify on the field to compete. In the
lastthreegames,theWolverineshave
struggled to outscore their opponents
by morethan one point. The teamhas
scored more goals on set plays than
they have the run of play.
"Our offense needs to connect on
our passes, and we have to make sure
that our final ball is good," Bowery
said.
"Sometimes we get nervous and
just kick the ball away,but we need to
make sure that we are composed."
Though the Spartans are favored,
the Wolverines have had unexpected
success in this role this season. Mich-
igan defeated No. 21 Miami 1-0 and
lost a one goal contest against No. 17
Southern Cal.
"This is nothing new to us," Ryan
said. "We are used to playing as the
underdog."

DHunwick stands tall in net

, ; 6 g
'
__

BY MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan hockey coach Red
Berenson has made it clear that
junior backup goalie Shawn Hun-
wick is a "relief pitcher" this sea-
Like most relief pitchers, Hun-
wick wasn't told when he was
going to get into
the game in NOTEBOOK
Michigan's final
exhibition game against Wind-
sor. When he took over for junior
Bryan Hogan in the second period,
Sunday, it was his first appearance
since his freshman year.
"I knew before the game I was
going to get in at some point, but
I thought it would be later in the
game," Hunwick said. "Obviously
I was a little bit nervous. I wanted
to prove to the coaches and the
teammates what I could do for the
team. (The nerves) got out of there
pretty quick once I made my first
save."
'Hunwick's teammates didn't
give him the smoothest start.
Just four minutes after Hunwick
entered the game, an intercepted
pass led to a two-man break for
Windsor. Hunwick got a piece of
the ensuing one-timer, but eventu-
ally the puck got past him. After
another quick goal by the visi-
tors, Michigan found itself down
2-1 midway through the game to
a team it beat 12-1 in its previous
meeting.
Hunwick shut Windsor down
the rest of the way, making nine
saves in 40 minutes en route to his
first career win.
"He fought it in the beginning,"
Berenson said. "He got it together
and by the end of the game, I think
he was feeling back in his groove.
It's hard when you don't play any
games, but now at least we have

ro*4k -

?
4 /
SAIDALSALAH/Daily
Junior Shawn Hunwick saw his first playing time since his freshman year in last weekend's exhibition win over Windsor.

buy one beverage
get one HALF OFF[
lot equal or lesser value)
1741 Plymouth Rd * Ann Arbor
BIGGBY
for franchise info www.biggby.com COFFEE
Good at this location only. Notlgood with any other offer.
No copies of this coupon will be accepted. Offer expires 10/13/09.
.11-u, K

him ready when we need him."
After last season, when there
was uncertainty between the
pipes, Berenson has made it clear
that Hogan, who eventually won
the job last year, is his number
one goalie. Berenson also said he
doesn't know when or if Hunwick
will play again this season.
NEW GAME, NEW LINES: After
puttingsophomoreforward Robbie
Czarnik on the first line with Louie
Caporusso and David Wohlberg in
the season's two exhibition games,
junior Ben Winnett will step into
that role when the Wolverines
head to Alaska this weekend.
Winnett put up two assists on
the opening weekend, but he fig-
ures to be more of a role player

when playing with offensively tal-
ented players such as Wohlberg
and Caporusso.
"I think (Winnett will) be a
good complement on that line,"
Berenson said. "He'll make good,
subtle, plays and I think he's got
better offense than hisnumbers
have shown."
Freshman Chris Brown will
remain at right wing for the sec-
ond line, playing with juniors Carl
Hagelin and Matt Rust. Czarnik
will drop down to the third line
to play with freshman A.J. Treais
and senior Ben Lebler.
"(The lines) might last a game,
or a period, or a week or two,"
Berenson said. "Right now we're
just trying to put players together

and see who's playing well and
isn't, and what they could add,
and try to -get some experienced
players with freshman players."
NOTES: Michigan's two games
up in Alaska this weekend are
exempt from the maximum 34
games they are allowed to play.
This encourages more teams to
travel to Alaska. Michigan will
actually play 37 games this year,
with the outdoor game in Wiscon-
sin also exempt, the exemptions....
The only player on the roster not to
play in at least one of the preseason
games was third-string freshman
goalie Patrick Summers. ... A.J.
Treais was the only one of the six
freshmen to score a goal on open-
ing weekend.


0

8A- Wednesday, October 7, 2009

8A -Wednsda, Ocobe 7, 009The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

q

4

2

4

4

4

4

, ,
M,
,,
.:, r
' ;
Whx 4
^S
* S;
Y S

4

4

4

4

4



,W-

V V V V V V V


v .

w

__w-

--Iw

-W-

_W

--

8B Th Mchgn aiy edesay Otbe0 7 20

The Sweat
and Toil
of Club
Sports
From page 5B
up along with the men's soccer pro- SHARING MORE THAN A
gram a decade ago, and women's SPORT
water polo got the nod instead.
Since then, the club has chosen The University's high-achieving
to remain at the club level because club sports are adept at claiming
of the demanding club varsity resources for themselves where
requirements. they can find them.
Increasing the required amount While there isn't a varsity equiv-
of practice hours from 10 to 20 alent of club sports like roller hock-
would likely place strain on team ey or table tennis, there are plenty
members' academic lives, too - not in more mainstream sports. Name
to mention their wallets with dou- a varsity sport, and it's almost
ble the ice costs. guaranteed that a sister team exists
"It's honestly a lot of work," said on the club level.
Rachel Reuter, the women's club Varsity programs help club
hockey president. "It's something teams survive and improve by shar-
we'd definitely like to see in the ing facilities and equipment - two
future, but there are other impedi- of the most expensive factors for all
ments in the way with the varsity club sports.
boys and Yost (Ice Arena) being The men's rowing club team
such a small rink - it would be hard has access to the women's varsity
to get the ice time that we'd need to team's indoor rowing machines
become a varsity sport anyway." to train in the winter. Club sports
But the women's team wouldn't men's water polo and women's
mind some of the tangible benefits synchronized swimming practice
it'd receive by gaining club varsity in Canham Natatorium, home to
or varsity status. Reuter would love the varsity swimming and diving
to see the women's team use the teams and women's varsity water
well-equipped weight room on the polo. The varsity baseball team
second floor of Yost and get its own allows its club equivalent to use
locker room - hockey skates and Ray Fisher Stadium for tryouts.
pads don't belong in dorm closets. Jendryka attributes the sharing
atmosphere in part to the fact that

3

Spending hours practicing with no hope ofta University scholarship, club athletes play only for the love of the game.

some athletic department employ-
ees in charge of facilities came from
the Rec Sports department, so they
understand how helpful access to
top-notch facilities can be for club
or even intramural athletes.
But the exchange between.var-
sity and club sports doesn't stop at
equipment - there are sometimes
player tradeoffs, too.
"I wouldn't say it's common, but
it's certainly not uncommon," Jen-
dryka said. "We've had a fair num-
ber of varsity athletes drop down
just because they don't have the
time to dedicate. They can't do that
many hours outside the classroom,
the travel, the expectations."
And it also works the other way.
Jendryka said she has received
phone calls and rushed c-mails
from club presidents who have
to send her new contact informa-
tion for their teams because some
their players have made the varsity
squad.
One of the best examples of the
club-to-varsity bond is the men's

soccer program. Each season,
Burns, the men's varsity coach,
attends club tryouts to scout out
the talent level on campus. Often,
he'll invite a player or two to try out
for varsity, and he will sometimes
have some of the top club athletes
train with the varsity squad all
winter in preparation for preseason
tryouts. The club and varsity teams
also square off every spring in an
exhibition game, giving Burns yet
another chance to recruit.
But the relationship between
varsity and club teams in the same,
sport isn't always smooth. For the
women's club hockey team, it's a
challenge to earn respect while
playing in the same arena as the
men's varsity hockey team. Part of
the problem could be that men's
coach Red Berenson has never been
a vocal proponent of the women's
club program.
"I don't get a sense that there's
any active engagement, and I don't
get a sense that there's any active
disapproval," said Susan McDow-
ell, long-time staff advisor for the
women's club team. "I don't think
we matter, and I don't mean that
meanly. I just think his primary
focus is on the success of his men's
varsity program. ... It's not the

world's most perfect situation, but
I think that's where it is."
THE PAYOFF OF CLUB
ATHLETICS
Along the way, though, some-
thing happens to a team as it bat-
tles for respect on the field and in
the Michigan Athletic Department:
teammates bond, leaders emerge
and individuals learn to reap the
most from a difficult system.
Paruk, the women's Ultimate
Frisbee captain, described the chal-
lenge of scheduling classes around
practice during the school year and
planningvacations around summer
tournaments. But her eyes lit up
most as she spoke of the relation-
ships she has formed with other
players on the team.
Players from each competitive
club team, from women's hockey to
men's rowing, spoke of the close-
knit ties between members of their
programs. From fundraising to
recruiting, the added obstacles club
teams face give them an "us against
the world" mentality.
"I think some of those struggles
make the successes even sweeter,"
Jendryka said.

Would you let this man into your home?
.; Hilarity ensues when a family man is duped by
-, a pious con-mare in this comic masterpiece.
by Mohiere
Directed by Priscilla'Lindsay
Dept. of Theatre & Drama
Oct.8 & 15 at 7:30 PM * Oct. 9, 10, 16, & 17 at 8 PM
October .1 & 18 at 2 PM *Arthur Miller Theatre
General Admission $24 *Students $9 with ID
League Ticket Office * 734-764-2538 * music.umich.edu

Michigan Animal Rights Society



w w w w w w w w w


--w-

__W

-lw

-__

_IV

-lw

w

w

w

S - -. 0..- *0*

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
The Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Stephanie Farr
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

new rules
rule 212: It's
too early to
wear Uggs. But
of course, it's
always too early
to wear Uggs.
rule 213: Don't
walk more than
20 minutes to
go to a house
party. You're in
Ann Arbor, not
East Lansing.
rule 214: If you
haven't done a
load of laundry
since school
started, you
need to as soon
as possible.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

Rivalry in close
quarters
How dorm hall camaraderie
fuels competition
For many University students,
the residence hall is simply a place
to make a few close friends and
poignant memories..
But once in a while, a floor takes
dorm-hall camaraderie to a differ-
ent level.
in 2004, for instance, the resi-
dents in Markley's Fifth Scott
house decided to become the Fifth
Scott Pirates. They made it offi-
cial with a Facebook group and
T-shirts.
But with a legacy of rivalry
inherent to being a Michigan Wol-
verine, higher-than-average dorm
hall solidarity can't exist for long
without a challenge from another
group.
Every year, on the night of the
first substantial snowfall, West
Quad and South Quad battle each
other in a snowball fight. But at
other times, dorm hall rivalries
develop more spontaneously.-
Michael Fromm, a sophomore at
Michigan in 1982, can recall a fre-
quent "late night game of chicken"
between people who lived in Alice
Lloyd and Masher-Jordan. Fromm
wrote in an e-mail that "students
who lived on the MoJo and Alice
Lloyd wings that faced each other
would alternate screaming 'MoJo

sucks' and 'Alice Lloyd sucks."
The only real objective was to see
who could get the loudest.
"It always began (the) same way
with one room on each side, but
of course it never ended there,"
Fromm wrote. "And the sound
was impossible to ignore, so as the
game wore on and the competitive
juices started to flow, students from
across both dorms would flood the
rooms on these wings in a show of
solidarity. My recollection is that
the empty space between the two
dorms made the sound resonate
like it was coming over the PA sys-
tem at The Big House."
In South Quad this year, there
is an intense rivalry between the
two honors houses, Taylor and
Hunt. Living in South Quad means
competing with your floor house in
the South Quad Olympics and per-
haps some group activities. But if
you live in Taylor or Hunt, it's a bit
more serious.
It started with an alcohol and
drug free rave hosted by Hunt
House that sparked a competition
over which house was more fun,
said LSA freshman Josh Buoy, a
Hunt resident.
"That was kind of the first time
that Hunt would be the dominant
house," Buoy said..
Another Hunt resident,aLSA
freshman Mike Zerbib, added:
"And Taylor was really, really jeal-
ous."
Since then, Hunt and Taylor res-
idents have paid attention to any

ABOUT CAMPUS
ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN OQUIST

. ..
l _. rx,
,,
.
f '
' ,T
' b
Y
j f
f s'4!
F . ., i
. #, ; 4.
}7 ir. r / .
1f 4 F
jj(
, y
i
},.
1 ' Y
y
i
f=
'4 4
ti, .

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
han they did, "We don't like hate each other
p to one event or anything like that, but like in
in because we South Quad functions we might
tion points for like yell at each other," he said. "It's
!nt." kind of like a sibling rivalry - like
09 with other we still love them because they're
rnblatt ripped in our building, but we just want to
of everyone in beat them up sometimes."
s are often in- But ill will between the two
houses may soon melt away. Buoy
.e rivalry isn't said some Hunt residents are plan-
cit revenge for ning a Yule Ball in the spirit of the
at, but every- one in "Harry Potter" that should
y between the bring the two houses together.
-DANIEL STRAUSS

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN OBSERVES
NATIONAL HAZING PREVENTION WEEK
OCTOBER 8TH-16TH
Remember the victims of hazing on the Diag tomorrow, October 8, 2009
Did you know...
Hazing occurs in, but extends beyond, varsity athletics and Greek-letter
organizations; 55% of college students involved in clubs, teams, and athletic
organizations experience hazing*
In 95% of the cases where students identified their experience as hazing, they did
not report the events to campus officials*
Nine out of ten students who have experienced hazing behavior in college do not
consider themselves having been hazed*
A person cannot consent to be hazed
WOLVERINES SEE THROUGH THE HAZE
http://www.umich.edu/~nohazing/
Report incidents of suspected hazing to: hazinghotline@umich.edu
*From national study, "Hazing in View: College Students at Risk," released March 2008; www.hazingstudy.org

LIKE

event that pitted them against each
other. During the annual South
Quad Olympics, Hunt and Taylor
competitors monitored the prog-
ress of the other house jealously.
Hunt House came in first and
Taylor came in third - a place-
ment that Taylor residents resent
because it is based on attendance
and sportsmanship instead of just
the number of wins.
"They beat us in the South Quad
Olympics, but it was B.S.," said LSA
freshman Robbie Kornblatt, who
lives in Taylor. "Because we had

more gold medals t
but we didn't show u
at all (and) they wo
lost all our participa
not going to that eve
- Playing FIFA 20
Taylor residents, Ko
on Hunt to the glee
the room: "Hunt kid
bred."
Kornblatt said th
strong enough to eli
the Olympics defea
thing isn't quite ros
two houses.

WHAT
YOU
SEE?
JOIN
OUR
STAFF.
E-mail vosgerci@umich edu

IS YOUR BREW HE BEST?
Do you have something hoppy brewing in your fermenter tub?
Can you have it bottled by early November?
If so, you should participate in The Michigan Daily's first-ever student brewer competition. To learn
more, e-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com with your name, year in school and type of beer.


, w

9 w


I

qw

w

w

i

Th McignDal -W dnsdy Otb0. ,20

This pill has
chilled too long
One little pill, one giant leap toward
sexual equality. And there's no reason it
shouldn't be available today.
By Yasaswi Paruchuri

. v.
a !
,
[ u y ( 4
M
Ya
4
. .
z E
r ,
,.
,
fib-
.

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

Four years this month.
It's very painful. They're
still not sure what's
causing it."
- JAIME MOLISEE, a woman from Jack-
sonville, Fla., describing her "debilitating
and relentless" hiccups that have lasted
for four years. No medication has helped

"They stabbed people
with bayonets. They raped
women with guns. This
is a savagery that can't be
explained."
- THIERNO MAADJOU SOW, a doctor with the
Guinean Organization for Human Rights, describing
the violence perpetrated by Guinean government
troops against people protesting the junta leader

Among the slew of prob-
lems associated with
gender dynamics and
male chauvinism, we can now
add birth control to the list.
Due to the advent of sexually
transmitted infections like
HIV/AIDS, huge public health
measures over the last decade
have increased awareness on
serious concerns for everyone
who has sex. Out of this debate
has risen the increased need for
more technologically advanced
methods of contraception. This
initially took the form of the
condom and the diaphragm.
Next, there was the arrival of
hormonal methods of birth
control, namely, "the pill."
But while the diaphragm and
the condom present equal mea-
sures for women and men to
retain control of reproduction,
the pill is a one-sided alterna-
tive. Women are expected to
take on the responsibility of
an everyday pill that could
cause an array of negative side
effects. WebMD lists nausea,
weight gain, sore breasts and
mood changes as less serious
side effects. Among the more
serious are high blood pressure,
stroke, blood clots, headaches
and eye problems like blurred
vision. While these symptoms
in their most extreme form
do not affect everyone, most
women experience some side
effects. And the pill comes in
so many varieties that women
have to try each one for a mini-
mum period of three months
before it can be conclusively
determined that the nega-
tive effects will not subside.
A woman could go through a
seemingly endless time period
as her own guinea pig - hav-
ing to subject herself to various

pills, their side effects and a
hampered lifestyle. It is a rath-
er bleak picture.
Not to say that women
shouldn't use oral birth con-
trol. The ability to control
reproduction is invaluable,
but that power and responsi-
bility shouldn't rest solely in
women's hands. And thanks
to progress in modern science,
it doesn't have to. Male oral
contraceptive has been suc-
cessfully tested in humans and
could easily become an option
for men who would like to con-
trol whether their genes are
reproduced. In a 2009 Chinese
study, it was shown that testos-
terone based male contracep-
tive could "provide effective,
reversible, acceptable, and
readily delivered contracep-
tion for most healthy Chinese
men without serious short-
term adverse effects." Having
been researched for decades,
the technology for male oral
contraception is on the verge of
becoming a marketable reality.
The medical community had
even begun to consider regula-
tions for licensing and distrib-
uting such a drug, according to
Eberhard Nieschlag, a profes-
sor at the Institute of Repro-_
ductive Medicine in Germany.
But then the push for male oral
contraceptive was robbed
of momentum. Nieschlag
explains the shift in his article,
"Male Hormonal Contracep-
tive; Love's Labour's Lost?":
"However, these hopes were
suddenly intercepted when the
two companies (developing the
drug) were bought up by larger
players in the field who nei-
ther realized the potential of a
male contraceptive nor felt any
responsibility to develop it."

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. U.S. troop increases in Afghanistan
2. Dog fighting as free speech
3. Roman Polanski
And three things
you can't:
1. "Going Rogue" by Sarah
Palin
2. John Ensign on health care
3. Celebrities with HIN

"I have had sex with women who work on this show."
- DAVID LETTERMAN, host of the "The Late Show," admitting on his show last week that he's had
sexual relations with some of his staff members. He said he testified about it before a grand jury in a
case involving extortion, in which someone demanded $2 million to keep quiet about his sex life

Sam Wolson Daily

Why is it that the fervor of
the pharmaceutical industry
has been levied behind the
female oral contraceptive but
not a male counterpart? Like
any business decision, it must
have come down to money. If
pharmaceutical companies
don't believe that enough men
would go in for a daily oral pill
to make the drug profitable,
then they aren't likely to mar-
ket it even if it would mean a
huge step forward for individ-
ual reproductive self-control.
While pharmaceutical compa-
nies rarely make statements
about research and develop-
ment decisions, Nieschlag
speculates that is due in part
to a lack of advocacy groups
calling for the drug as women's,
health advocates had done for
female hormonal contracep-
tive.But even though there isn't
a united voice expressing inter-
ested in male oral contracep-
tive, research shows that men
wouldn't be opposed to trying
it out themselves. A 2004 study
in the journal Human Repro-
duction found that 49 percent
of American men would be
willing to use hormonal birth

control, with 34 percent on monal methods target other
the fence about it. Participants areas of sperm maturation,
from many other countries with the most promising hin-
stated even higher difference drance being an undeveloped
- the survey found more than flagella. The sperm would still
60 percent of men were willing be emitted into the vaginal
in Germany, Spain, Brazil and canal, but would be unable to
Mexico. . reach the egg. Again, repro-
If the drug was made com- duction is halted.
mercially available and men The lack of a commercially
educated about the science available male oral contracep-
behind it, those numbers might tive to match the responsibility
evengrow.To explain how male and efficacy of female contra-
contraceptive would act in the ceptive is another permutation
body, here's a short recap of sex of female-male inequality. Yes,
education. In the complicated more research needs to be done
picture of human reproduc- on "the male pill" in order to
tion, the male's role is to fertil- ensure its side effects are not
ize the egg with sperm. Sperm, any worse than those of female
once they enter the somewhat oral contraceptive. Also, the
antagonist vaginal tract, have advent of male oral contracep-
to overcome an acidic environ- tive will not immediately cre-
ment and use their flagella to ate equality in sexual relations
reach the egg. Male contracep- between men and women. The
tive targets the production and necessity is only that men be
mobility of sperm i norder to afforded the opportunity to
decrease fertility. Hormonal control their reproductive
methods would halt spermato-- power as women can, and that
genesis (sperm production) both share the responsibility of
itself, which would still allow that power. It is up to consum-
the male to orgasm and ejacu- ers to join advocacy groups in
late as before, but without the the call for this technology -
presence of sperm and thus the one that could easily eliminate
ability to reproduce. Non-hor- a human right inequity.

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
Dating in the '80s
When it comes to dating, the times
have apparently changed -and dras-
tically, at that.
In this video, a montage of dat-
ing advertisements from the 1980s, a
slew of mustachioed, glasses-wear-
ing, exceedingly awkward men with
long hair and flannel shirtsmdescribe THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
for the camera their perfect woman.
From this wince-inducing video, it Woooo, colleggge! - It's getting to the point w
would be little surprise if every one of
these men has remained a bachelor to school is becoming serious. September - that r
this day. of weekday-morning hangovers and infrequent =
The video begins with an '80s
musical riff (heavy, of course, on the sessions - has now ended, and midterm exams
synthesizer) that features a chorus are right around the corner. Before you really buc
singing, "I'm looking for someone. ahecrr.Bfeyoralyb
Where can you be?" Shortly after down, though, you should throw one last blowoi
the song ends, Maurice introduces
himself with a wink, remarking in a party this weekend. Order a few kegs, get out th
low, creepy voice that he's an "execu- beer bong, buy an assortment of Burnett's and s
tive by day, and a wild man by night."
Then comes Monroe, an apparent the beer pong table. You know the drill.
nerd with a squeaky voice, who is sure ' Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStotement@umich
that "you've probably already noticed
that I have incredibly blue eyes." He
also says, later in the video, that he
likes to wearsbright socks. STUDY OF THE W EEK
One man says that he likes "sugar O
and spice and everything nice."
Another is dressed in a viking cos- Eight million Americans consider suicide eac
tume, which includes a shield, a
sword and a helmet with horns. "Hi, More than eight million Americans seriously contem
I'm Fred," he says, with no hint of a cide each year, even though only about 32,000 people actua
smile. He says he's looking for some- through, according to a study recently releasedby the Substa
one he can "feel special about." and Mental Health Services Administration.
- BRIAN TENGEL The study was conducted using a survey of 46,190 peop
See this ndoeoher and older. In past years, the question about suicide had
YouTube videos of the week or posed to people reportine problems with depression. In 2C

BY THE NUMBERS
Number of people who died during two earthquakes in Indonesia
last week
Magnitude of the bigger earthquake, which hita week ago today
Number of people who died in Padang, the area worst affected
Source: CNN

vhen
month
study
s
fickle
gut
fie
set up
Tedu

ch year
plate sui-
ally follow
nce Abuse
le aged 18
nly been
008, how-

ever, all survey respondents were asked whether or not they've ever
seriously considered suicide.
In the study, the researchers found that people aged 18 to 25 were
far more likely to have contemplated suicide in the last year than peo-
ple aged 26 to 49 or older. The study showed that 6.7 percent of young
people considered suicide in the last year, while only 3.9 percent of
middle-aged people and 2.3 percent of people 50 and older had simi-
lar suicidal thoughts.
- BRIAN TENGEL


w w w w w w w w w w


_._,w_

7-

7

-IF

"IV


v

w

W-

v v

The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, October 7 2009

Wednesday, October 7, 2009 - The Michigan Daily

Out of

,Oiitof

Club sport athletes don't do t merely for the exercise. Many practice and
compete almost on the level of varsity, but without the funding and resources.
BY NICOLE AUERBACH I DAILY SPORTS EDITOR

elics of past glory line the wall on the sec-
ond floor of the Coliseum. Faded photo-
graphs of boxers in shiny maize shorts are
propped up on the counter. A newspaper article
on Shamael Haque, one of Michigan's most cel-
ebratedboxers, hangs next to the team photos in
a sturdy frame. Dust is starting to build up, but
no one wants to move the memories.
It's rather quiet, except for the beat of the
music - from a CD mix entitled "boxing hard-
core." The red, blue and white ropes lining the
boxing ring and the seven punching bags are
still, but not for long.
A rush of energy bursts into the room as
nearly 20 women enter, drenched in sweat from
a pre-practice jog. They are tall, short, white,
black and Latina. They are freshmen, seniors
and even University staff members. And every
single one of them is ready to wind up and punch
the stress-absorbing bags for two hours or until
their arms give out - whichever comes first.
This is the world of mismatched T-shirt uni-
forms and sharing equipment with the men's
team. This is the world of women's club boxing.
Club sports occupy an interesting niche on
campus. While some club programs, like wom-
en's boxing and martial arts clubs, emphasize
instruction and weekly exercise, certain teams
are as competitive as almost any varsity team.
The 42 clubs registered with the Recreational
Sports department include everything from
obscure groups like the rifle team to varsity sib-
ling sports like baseball. The time commitments

vary, but for some club athletes, practices and
games exceed more than 20 hours a week.
Members of club teams compete without
the perks afforded varsity teams: scholarships,
brand new gear and a page on the official Michi-
gan athletic site, mgoblue.com. They sacrifice
their time, energy and grade point averages sim-
ply for the love of the game.
Still, there's a dream that many club team
presidents have. It's the rags-to-riches, club-
to-varsity Hollywood tale set against dramatic
music, like the kind in "Rocky."
In fact, five club sports - men's and women's
lacrosse, men's rowing, women's synchronized
skating and women's synchronized swimming
- have the classification of "club varsity," a title
Athletic Director Bill Martin created in 2000 to
put ultra-competitive club teams on the track
toward varsity standing.
The path to varsity status is riddled with
intense requirements, funding considerations
and legal constraints - meaning the Universi-
ty's strongest club teams have to maintain that
strength through mainly the will of their mem-
bers alone.
Men's Ultimate Frisbee captain Ollie Hondred
was the first club sport member to use the word
"cult" to describe his team. But his counterpart
on the women's team agreed.

"Ultimate Frisbee can be described as some
sort of cult," said Anna Maria Paruk, captain
of the women's Ultimate Frisbee club. "At least
for me, this isn't just a sport. It can be described
almost as a way of life."
It's not surprising that club athletes would
describe their teams that way - while fiercely
competing to snag the best-non-varsity athletes
on campus, club teams like Ultimate Frisbee rely
on the dedication of their members to survive.
Unlike varsity sports with extensive recruit-
ment budgets that include cross-country visits,
club sports depend on word of mouth and their
Festifall tables to attract new talent. Among the
many lost freshmen and people looking to boost
their resumes at Festifall are former high school
athletes looking to keep sports in their day-to-
day lives.
"It's an opportunity for people who might not
want to - or can't- take the sport they've always
known and loved to the next level," said Cheryl
Jendryka, Recreational Sports Assistant Direc-
tor, who works with all club teams. "But they
still want to be an athlete or they still want to go
around all day and chase something on a field,
whether that's a soccer ball or a Frisbee. Same
thing with rugby or boxing - you find these new
sports this way."
At the men's Ulti-
mate Frisbee tryouts
in September, dozens
of freshmen showed up i
with Frisbees in hand.,

As upperclassmen players tagged the recruits'
calves with Sharpie to distinguish them on the
field, the aspiring members shared their reasons
for coming. Some had been high school soccer
players who knew they couldn't compete at the
Division-I varsity level and always enjoyed an
afternoon Frisbee toss.
Hondred said his best recruiting tool is to find
the guys who didn't make the men's club soccer
team, which is lower than varsity soccer but still
competes on a very high level. Some members of
both the women's and men's club soccer teams,
for example, turned down the opportunity to
play soccer at smaller Division-III programs to
attend the University.
Turning down varsity offers elsewhere and
deciding to pay to play at Michigan is most evi-
dent in the world of club varsity athletics.
In 2000, after he was newly hired as athletic
director, Bill Martin created the club varsity
classification to go along with the existing appli-
cation for attaining varsity status. Before teams
earn the club varsity distinction, they are evalu-

ated on a number of topics, from the existence
of a national governing body to the amount of
hours spent practicing each week. Clubs that
have been established for more than eight years
are eligible to apply for the club varsity label.
Benefits of the new status include prior-
ity in scheduling practice locations/times and
opportunities for sponsored gear and warmup
suit packages.
The men's lacrosse team has garnered a
great deal of attention on its quest for varsity
status. Boastinga 40-game winningstreak, the
team's two flawless seasons have led to nation-
al championships in 2008 and 2009.
But the men's lacrosse team isn't the only
one making the most of the "varsity" part of
club varsity.
The men's rowing team has also won two
straight national championships, the first two
hosted by the newly formed America Collegiate
Rowing Association.
The two teams share more similarities with
the University's varsity teams beyond the level
of competition they face and the rigorous work-
out regimens (often including two-a-day prac-
tices) they undergo.
Both men's lacrosse and men's rowing have
representatives on the Student Athlete Advisory
Committee, which includes members from all
varsity programs.
But perhaps the most visible sign of growth
for both men's lacrosse and men's rowing was
their inclusion in Mock Rock, the athletic
department's annual fundraiser for C.S. Mott's
Children Hospital.
One major difference from varsity sports is
that club varsity sports require upperclassmen
to act as coaches, captains and star players all at
once. :
"You're entirely on your own, and that's the
difference (from) the varsity sports," Jendryka
said. "Not only are the club athletes trying to
get the best athletes and practicing, but some of

them are going to practice, then coming home the team's rise to varsity status. He had to write
and writing the lineup for the game the next multiple proposals to the Athletic Department,
day." . including a more than 30-page report that
Considering the large commitment required addressed concerns from finances to Title IX,
of players, several club sports leaders believe which requires educational and athletic pro-
their teams are competitive enough to take to "grams to provide equal opportunities for men
the varsity level - and to receive the perks that and women as well as financial assistance pro-
distinction delivers. portional to participation rates.
"I view our team more as a varsity team that To satisfy Title IX, Burns worked behind
competes the same the scenes to find a
way the other var- li women's team that
sity teams do," said could rise to varsity
Matt Zoufaly, the alongside men's
men's rowing club soccer. He con-
president. "Our This isn't just a sport. It tacted competitive
training schedule, women's club teams
competition sched- can be desc ri beda I most like lacrosse, ice
ule, everything is hockey and water
more like theirs. as a way of life. polo to urge them
Our opponents are to make a push for
the same caliber varsity, too..
as their opponents. "It was a con-
There are no differ- certed effort to
ences. It's just the coordinate and get
label." the right people the right information at what
Club varsity is a much more ambiguous we thought was the right time," Burns said. "If
distinction, one that not many students even there was going to be a men's sport and women's
understand. It's supposed to help put club teams sport added at the same time, they'd need to have
on a track to varsity, but in reality, no team has their ducks all in a row, too."
crossed the finish line. In the nine years that And as good fortune would have it, it was
club varsity has existed, zero teams have moved the right time. A strong economy and increased
up to varsity status. funding to the Athletic Department due to the
Michigan football team's 1997 national champi-
onship provided the resources to grow the Uni-
BREAKING THROUGH TO VARSITY versity's varsity program.
Since then, the men's varsity soccer team has
It's been nearly a decade since the Michigan earned berths to the NCAA Tournament three
Athletic Department has welcomed a new var- times in nine years. Just last season, it went all
sity team. In 2000, the men's soccer team and the way to the third round before suffering a
the women's water polo team both earned var- defeat to No. 12 Indiana. Meanwhile, women's
sity recognition - but the result took years to water polo has reached the Tournament four
achieve. times since earning varsity status.
Steve Burnswho played on the men's clubsoc-
cer team from
1984 to 1988
and returned to
coach it in 1992, The two newest varsity teams provide a blue-
was the driving print for teams aspiring to varsity status, such
force behind as increasingly popular sports like lacrosse and

women's ice hockey. And for a team like men's
rowing, which competes against varsity pro-
grams all season but is excluded from the sport's
traditional national championship, the fight for
the varsity distinction is more critical.
"We don'treallyneed allthestuff(the Adidas-
sponsored gear) that the varsity teams have,"
Zoufaly said. "It's all nice and everyone likes it,
but we just want the status to compete."
But forclub varsity teams, droppingthe "club"
can be difficult.
Following the procedure that the men's soc-
cer club program used, teams start the process
by submitting a formal request to a planning
committee ofthe University'sAdvisoryBoard on
Intercollegiate Athletics. The committee looks at
four main categories when making its decision:
student-athlete welfare, quality of competition
at the conference and national level, viability of
anew sport and financial considerations.
While the first three categories are signifi-
cant, most competitive club teams have those
bases covered. Men's rowing and men's lacrosse
both compete against the nation's top varsity
programs, and women's hockey has grown sig-
nificantly at the high school level in the state
of Michigan in just the past five years - just to
name a few examples.
But really, the struggle to advance to varsity
is all about financing. Suddenly, coaches must
be paid salaries. State-of-the-art equipment is
a must. Resources must be dedicated to nation-
wide recruitment, and the cost of travel makes
financial figures skyrocket.
"I would love to have more varsity sports,"
Martintold The Michigan Daily in 2007. "It's not
a matter of wanting to have new teams or not.
It's a matter of if you can afford them or not."
But men's lacrosse - or men's rowing -
doesn't have a chance of making varsity unless
there is a women's team to rise up with it.
Women's club hockey is a team that would
clearly benefit from increased financial support
- three practices a week and weekend games
bring the team's ice bill up to around $18,000 a
year.
The Athletic Department denied varsity sta-
tus to women's hockey when it applied to move
See PAGE 8B

Men's Ultimate Frisbee requires star players to double as coaches and recruiters to keep the team going year to year.

Women's club hockey can't afford to pay for ice time in order to practice as much as the club varsity level requires. And the Athletic Department can't afford to r

em varsity. Women's club boxing attracts dedicated amateur boxers who are looking for exercise and instruction ina new sport.


