STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Students rally
on capitol steps

THE END OF AN ERA

OPINION
Show us the
money
Emad Ansari on the scar-
city of financial aid for
international students.
SEE PAGE 5
ARTS
Pitchfork's happy
hipsters
3-day Chicago music
festival showcases indie
rock's biggest names
SEE PAGE 10
SPORTS
Fielding Dreams
Junior Tyler Burgoon gets
a taste of Fenway Park as
a Cape League All-Star
SEE PAGE 11
INDEX
Vol. CXIX, No.146 6 6200 othe Michigan Daily
michigandaily.com
NEW S ........................... 2
OPINION ............................... 4
CLASSIFIED ........................... 6
ARTS ............................. 9
SPORTS ................................. 11

Students protest cuts
to scholarships and
financial aid
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily News Editor
Students from the University
and Michigan State University
gathered on the steps of the Michi-
gan State Capitol in Lansing July
23 to protest the state's move to cut
the Michigan Promise Scholarship
and need-based financial aid.
The event was co-hosted by
the Michigan Student Assembly
and the Associated Students of
Michigan State University, MSU's
undergraduate student govern-
ment. More than a dozen repre-
sentatives from both universities
attended the protest, along with
government officials.
Kyle Dysarz, ASMSU student
assembly chairperson, opened
with a remark that addressed how
the present issues concerning

higher education are so impor-
tant that they brought two rival
schools together.
"It is not every day that you
will find a Spartan and a Wolver-
ine standing peacefully alongside
each other," Dysarz said.
Dysarz said he has heard
numerous stories about the stu-
dents and families who may not be
able to afford college tuition if the
state continues to slash higher-
education funds.
"The reason that we're here is
to talk about a struggling battle for
all students - no matter if you're
a Wolverine or a Spartan - (that
we) can't afford to lose," he said.
MSU raised its tuition 5.2 per-
cent for the 2009-2010 schoolyear,
while the University increased
tuition 5.6 percent.
Meanwhile, in a move to
decrease the state's estimated
$1.7-billion deficit, the Michigan
Senate passed a bill on June 23
that cuts the Michigan Prom-
ise Scholarship, which provides
See PROTEST, Page 2

The 46th stack oftthe Ann Arbor News' final edition rolls hot offthe press at the Print
Distribution Facility in Ann Arbor. An extra 12,000 copies oftthe Ann Arbor News were
printed in commemoration oftthe last issue on July 23. See Page 8 for more coverage.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES
Rare books for sale in'U' deal with Amazon

400,000 out-of-print
books available
By TORREYARMSTRONG
Daily StaffReporter
A partnership between the
University and BookSurge - a
Seattle-based subsidiary of Ama-
zon.com, Inc. - will introduce

thousands of rare and out-of-print
books to a new era of readers.
On Tuesday, University librar-
ies revealed plans to make
400,000 out-of-copyright books
in their collection available for
reprint on demand through a
partnership with BookSurge.
The books, which the University
expects to make available later
this summer, will range from $10

to $45.
The reprint program will
expand the University's relation-
ship with online seller Amazon.
com, which has been offering a
limited selection of books to the
University for about five years.
The agreement between the Uni-
versity and Amazon states that
the program will last two years.
Dean of Libraries Paul Cou-

rant said the project would focus
mainly on works published prior
to 1923 because they are no longer
protected under copyright law.
Courant added that the project
would slowly add more recent
out-of-print and out-of-copyright
books.
Courant said revenue sharing
and book-pricing details are still
See AMAZON, Page 3


2

Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PROTEST
From Page 1
approximately $140 million to
96,000 students across the state.
The bill also eliminates nearly $56
million in need-based financial aid.
Last Wednesday, Republicans in
theHouseofRepresentativesformed
a different set of bills in an attempt
to avoid using stimulus funds to
reduce the state's deficit. The plan
would keep the Michigan Promise
Scholarship but would eradicate
other scholarship and financial
aid programs such as work-study
programs and the Michigan Com-
petitive Scholarships - which are
awarded to students based on merit,
financial need and ACT scores.
MSA President Abhishek Mahan-
ti spoke to the crowd and discussed
how the combination of increasing
tuition rates and decreasing finan-
cial aid negatively impacts all fami-
lies, including his own. He said that
his family has to pay tuition bills for
him and his brother, who will be an
incoming freshman at the Univer-
sity this fall.
"Even with the in-state rates in
Ann Arbor, these costs have been
difficult to handle, and like most
families, we're trying to make it all
fit together," Mahanti said.
He added that the proposed cut
of the Michigan Promise Scholar-
ship is disturbing, and would break
a promise made to tens of thou-
sands of students who each count on
receiving as much as $4,000 in aid.
"It financially awarded high aca-
demic performance and provided
relief for families like mine that don't
qualify for financial aid but are still
felng this ni-ch" Maan+ti sad

Mary Clark, chief of staff for Rep.
Joan Bauer (D-Lansing), attended
the protest and agreed with the
student speakers. She said the gov-
ernment should honor the promise
grants because they act as incen-
tives to increase the number of col-
lege graduates in the state.
"We believe that at this criti-
cal time in Michigan's history it is
counterproductive to cut the area
that is critical to our state's econom-
ic recovery," Clark said. "We know
that the prosperity of our state and
our citizens is directly connected
to the number of college graduates
that we have in our state."
Susan Schmidt, chief of staff for
Rep. Mark Meadows (D-East Lan-
sing), said she and Meadows also
support continuing funding for the
scholarship.
"These scholarshipshelpfamilies
afford the ever-increasing tuition,
and as a mother of two college stu-
dents who go to U of M ... we are feel-
ing a direct effect by these potential
decisions," said Schmidt, addressing
the group of students from the capi-
tol steps.
Mahanti said students attend-
ing college are Michigan's greatest
assets becausethey arethe ones who
will lead the state in the future.
"Legislatures must realize that
investing in our students through
education isn't just important - it's
imperative," he said. "Education
needs to be accessible to prospective
scholars in the state of Michigan,
and by going beyond higher educa-
tion by encouraging entrepreneur-
ship and developing new businesses
within the state, we beginto reverse
this brain drain that plagues our
nation and our state."
While Thursday's protest served
ersa-Williams, '07

ARItL BOND/C
MSA Prosident Ahhishek Mahanti syeaks tooa Channel 6 reyorter at the protest.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JAMIE BLOCK DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
jambock@umich.edu tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
LetterstotheEditor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photodepartment photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaiycom
734-763-0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily com
Sports Section sportsemichigandaiy.com
Sales daiydisplay@gmaicom
734n764-0554
Cassified Sales dailycassitedegma ~om
Finance tmdfinance@gmail.com
734-763-3246

as an opportunity for legislators to
hear students' concerns, MSA and
ASMSU will be working together
in the coming weeks to take further
action on the issues of statewide
tuition hikes and Promise Scholar-
ship funding. ASMSU has posted
petitions on Facebook and Twitter
for all Michigan students to sign,
and leaders from both organizations
will be calling and visiting local rep-
resentatives, urging them to main-
tain higher education funding.
Ambreen Sayed, MSA chief of
staff, said she attended the event to
make the state aware that because
of the current economic situation
the government's greatest invest-
ment should be in higher education.
"When better to start investing in
the best and the brightest than right
now?" she said.
She added she came to show sup-
port for continuing the Promise
Scholarship and making sure the
state keeps on funding Michigan's
world-renowned institutions.
LSA senior Brady Smith went to
the- evebeause he .istfee with

the legislature's decision to revoke
its promise made to students in
Michigan.
He said retracting the scholar-
ships and financial aid will cause
students to attend school elsewhere
and not return to Michigan during a
time when the state needs people to
stay more than ever because of the
economic problems associated with
the automotive industries.
"Some of these manufacturing
jobs aren't coming back, but they
can be replaced with vocational and
technical training, and the fact that
we're preventing people from pur-
suing that is a big problem," Smith
said.
He added that public education
existed about 20years before Michi-
gan even became a state, considering
that the University was established
in 1817 and Michigan became a state
in 1837.
"This state has long been com-
mitted to excellent higher educa-
tion, and it's a sad day in this state
when we see that scaled back,"
Smirthsad-

EDITORIAL STAFF
Robert Soave
rso"ve*"mich "d

ManagingEditor

Tara Zade ManagingNews Ediore
lmzade~umic.edu
ASSOCIAEEDITORSSehaie
Steinerg, Jam.inZhu
Rachel VanlGilder EdiorialPaenEdior
Rtyan Kartje Maaig Sports ditor
rkre~um~ich5edu.
ASSOCIATEEeTO:Chanl Jennigs
David Riva Managing~s Editor

Max Collins
macsufly@umich.edu

Managing Photo Editor

Sara Boholtz and
StephanietFarr Managing Design Editors
boboltzs@umich.edu and smfarr@umich.edu
Lauren Schmandt Managing Multimedia Editor
lachelse@umich.edu
BUSINESSSTAFF
Katietlozwiak SalesManager
Kayla Lafata Classified Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Ben English Production Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is
published Monday through Friday during
the fall and winter terms by students at
the University of Michigan. One copy is
available free of charge to all readers.
Additional copies may be picked up at
the Daily's officefor$2. Subscriptions for
fall and winter term (September through
April) via U.S. mail are $200. Year-round
subscriptions (Fall, Winter, Spring and
Summer issues) are $225. Subscriptions
must be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a
memberof The Associated Press andThe
Associated Collegiate Press.


Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Family of dead construction worker sues 'U'

Mother seeks more
than $25,000 in
damages
BY LARA ZADE
ManagingNews Editor
The family of former construc-
tion worker David Smith, a con-
struction worker who died in an
accident at the Ross School of
Business construction site last
August, is suing the University for
failing to provide adequate safety
measures.
AMAZON
From Page 1
being determined, but book prices
will likely be based on page length.
While the reprinting and sell-
ing of out-of-print reproductions is
common, Courant said the program
is still unprecedented.
"Nobodyelse has done this on the
scale that we have because nobody
has digitized as many books as we

Smith was an elevator mechanic
from Grass Lake who died at age
31 after falling five stories down
an empty elevator shaft at the con-
struction site on Aug. 4, 2008.
At the construction site, Smith
was responsible for moving work-
ers and their equipment from floor
to floor.
Smith's mother, Mary Lee Smith,
filed the lawsuit in April. Smith is
asking for more than $25,000 in
damages from the University and
six other defendants, including
Smith's employer Schindler Eleva-
tor Corporation, general contractor
Barton-Malow Company and Shaw
have," he said.
Courant said University librar-
ies began digitizing their collec-
tion along with Cornell University
in a 1995 project called Making of
America, which specialized in pre-
serving antebellum and Recon-
struction-era texts. Since then, the
University has digitized approxi-
mately 7 million volumes on its
own and through large-scale digi-
tization efforts with Google, which
commenced in 2005.

Electric Company - the company
that provided lighting at the site.
According to Smith's complaint,
the University owned the prop-
erty, premises and building of the
Stephen M. Ross School of Busi-
ness during construction and "had
a non-delegable duty to assure
compliance with all industry and
government standards, codes and
regulations." The complaint further
states that the University had a duty
to assure that any dangerous con-
ditions were recognized and cor-
rected. Such dangerous conditions
included inadequate lighting for the
elevator shaft, elevator car and ele-
He added that Google would
receive a portion of the profits
derived from sales of the books it
has digitized from the University's
recent deal with BookSurge.
BookSurge Spokeswoman
Amanda Wilson told The Associ-
ated Press on Tuesday that other
universities and prestigious librar-
ies have followed suit - including
Emory University, the University of
Maine and the Toronto and Cincin-
nati public libraries - and began

vator lobbies, which she claims the
University did not provide.
Brian Benner, the attorney rep-
resenting Smith's family, said the
elevator shaft was not properly lit.
To turn on the lights in the eleva-
tor shaft, Smith was required
to open the elevator doors, step
inside of the elevator, turn around
and turn a key.
"Safety always starts at the top
and not at the bottom," said Benner,
alluding to the fact that it's the
responsibility of the oversight com-
mittees and companies in charge of
the site to ensure safety at the site
- not that of the workers.
similar reprint-on-demand proj-
ects with BookSurge in 2007.
"Public and university libraries
are seeing the benefits of print-
on-demand as an economic and
environmentally conscious way to
support their missions of preserv-
ing and making rare or out-of-copy-
right material broadly available to
the public," she said.
Maria Bonn, director of the Uni-
versity library's Scholarly Publish-
ing Office, wrote in a press release

"Somebody's not enforcingsafety
at these job sites," he added.
The University responded ear-
lier this month, asserting that it
was not in possession and control of
the property during construction,
and the University was therefore
not responsible for the death. The
University's legal statement also
maintains that Smith was "more
than 50 percent responsible for the
accident of his death," meaning that
Smith was partially responsible for
the fall by not using proper safety
measures.
The University's response further
See LAWSUIT, Page 8
last week that current events could
spur public interest in older texts
and stimulate sales.
Courant agreed, adding that
making a profit is a secondary
objective of the project.
"We don't expect best sellers,
but there will be an intermittent
demand for books, and being able to
fulfill that demand is a good thing,"
he said.
- The Associated Press contrib-
uted to this report.

I I

Carl Orff's
Tuesday, July 28, 2009, 7:30 p.m.
Hill Auditorium
Blue Lake International
Youth Symphony and Choir
Directed by Dr. Mark Webb
Choreography by Cory Goei and Penelope Freeh

- ALSO FEATURED -
Blue Lake Faculty Concerts & Workshops
Student Art Exhibition
MICHIGAN UNION
5:00 - 7:00 P.M.

More information at bluelake.org/ebi



41

Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JAMIE BLOCK
EDITOR IN CHIEF

ROBERT SOAVE
MANAGING EDITOR

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect theofficial position of the Daily's editorialboard. Allother signed articles and illustrations represent solely
theviewsof their authors.
Banking on success
Land Bank offers opportunity for community development
These tumultuous economic times have paved the path for a new
brand of banking in Washtenaw County - one free of deposit
slips and PINs. Say hello to the Land Bank. A surge of foreclo-
sures caused by the recession has burdened local communities with
unused properties that are inefficient and diminish the value of nearby
properties. The freshly-formed Washtenaw County Land Bank Author-
ity is sure to help with this problem. To do that, the Land Bank should
concentrate on providing affordable housing for county residents and
encourage important environmentally friendly initiatives.

Ethics always affect
consumer decisions
TO THE DAILY:
Last week, Jeremy Levy argued
that"single producer-to-consumer
transactions" should be morality-
free zones where "our sense of
social responsibility shouldn'tmat-
ter" (Not buying it, 07/19/2009).
Whether or not Americans have a
responsibility to purchase Ameri-
can cars, Levy's principle goes
too far. What about the exchange
of cash for a product immunizes
participants from the ethical con-
sequences of their actions?
Levy's claim that consumers
should maximize their own per-
sonal benefit in any transaction is
itself a kind of ethical principle -
and a selfish one at that. The issue
isn't whether or not ethics should
govern our economic behavior,
butwhich ethics should influence
our decisions.
Daniel Trump
Law School
Corruption claims
lack real credibility
TO THE DAILY:
In his latest column on the
corruption of the Environmen-
tal Protection Agency, Patrick
Zabawa's first sentence is, "as
a reader, you expect the news
stories in this newspaper to be
balanced and unbiased" (The cov-
er-ups continue, 07/13/2009). Had
Zabawa used these themes as his
guide and bothered to dosa Google
search, he would have found that
John Davidson and Alan Carlin,
who authored a report on global

warming discarded by the EPA on
global warming that Zabawa ref-
erenced, aren't climate scientists.
I found and read the "gagged"
draft report. In summary, it
immediately states that the
report's theoriestcould be
wrong. The main theme is that
the Earth's climate is so incred-
ibly complex that the possibil-
ity exists that man-made carbon
dioxide increases may not be the
sole cause of global warming.
Until we know for sure, I would
allow that this is possible, but the
General Secretary of The World
Meteorological Organization
wrote in response, "It is a misin-
terpretation of the data and of sci-
entific knowledge to point to one
year as the warmest on record...
and then to extrapolate that cool-
er subsequent years invalidate
the reality of global warming and
its effects."
I am disgusted that the jour-
nalistic ethics and ideals I stud-
ied at the University are being
corrupted by the likes of Fox
News and writers more inter-
ested in a political agenda than in
the truth.
All governments are going to
suffer corruption at some point.
That is expected. But, the exam-
ple provided in Zabawa's column
is weak at best.
That said, the "gagged" report
and subsequent media spin
achieved its right wing goal of
injecting FUD (Fear, Uncertainty,
and Doubt) into the debate on the
environment as Obama tries to
move this country toward agreen,
energy-independent future that
big oil corporations oppose.
Now there's a place for a good
journalist to look for political
corruption.
James Mersereau
Staff

The Washtenaw County Land
Bank was established on July 8,
just in time to meet the dead-
line to receive $300,000 in fed-
eral stimulus funds to help with
start-up costs. A specific busi-
ness plan has yet to be gener-
ated, but the Washtenaw Land
Bank will probably follow a fair-
ly standard model. Generally,
after acquiring foreclosed prop-
erties, land banks collaborate
with local officials to determine
their best use on a case-by-case
basis. This could mean renova-
tion, demolition, beautification
or other projects. Properties are
then sold to private owners who
agree to develop the land along
the land bank's suggestion.
The Washtenaw Lank Bank
is expected to be modeled after
the Genesee County Land Bank,
which has earned the 2007
Harvard University/Fannie
Mae Foundation Innovations in
American Government Award for
Affordable Housing. The over-
all impact of the Genesee Land
Bank has been overwhelmingly

positive - Genesee has produced
a cost-conscious program that
softened the blow of the Flint
area housing crisis. There is no
reason why Washtenaw County
can't replicate this success.
But for the Lank Bank to work
here, officials will have to tai-
lor its objectives to Washtenaw
County's needs and values. For
example, here in Ann Arbor,
students and residents alike
have long been in need of more
affordable rental units. Afford-
able housing located centrally
in downtown Ann Arbor helps
combat socioeconomic strati-
fication in the city. It allows
people of various means to live
in close proximity, rather than
forcing the less fortunate to live
further from the city proper
and commute. And if the Land
Bank takes initiative to encour-
age the development of this kind
of affordable housing, the city
wouldn't have to foot the bill.
Local residents and especially
students have also expressed
their enthusiasm for more envi-
Editorial Board Members:

ronmentally friendly initiatives.
The Land Bank could support
this cause by encouraging pri-
vate owners to include features
approved by the U.S. Green
Building Council's Leadership
in Energy and Environmental
Design program. Perhaps even
environmentally friendly high-
rises could be on the Land Bank's
agenda -- these could also facili-
tate low-income housing.
And even less functional uses
- like vegetable gardens or play-
grounds -could prevent further
degradation of the already bur-
dened housing market by turn-
ing blighted properties that
pull down property value into
useful spaces.
This project has potential.
But the officials in charge of the
project should proceed with cau-
tion - wasteful uses of property
or delayed development could be
disastrous. It's up to the officials
in charge of the Land Bank to
make sure this doesn't happen
and see that the project creates
the facilities the city needs.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Let us know what you think. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu or
visit michigandaily.com and click on 'Letter to the editor.'
DANIEL GOLD
E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU
It'sonMlyMfrorentatn
Q It's only fassrentation..C
ROOMMATES

Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Vivian Wang, Patrick Zabawa


Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

15

Total coverage

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I

E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

Irecentlyran into a family friend
at a coffee shop. After covering
all the important hometown
gossip, our dis-
cussion turned
to the future of
health care. As a
psychologist, my _
friend expressed
concern that '
in all the talk _
about reform- MATTHEW
ing the healthG
care system, she GREEN
hadn't heard of
any plans for mental health cover-
age. As someone who has seen the
positive effect of psychotherapy in
people's lives, I was disappointed
to find out that insurance providers
place inadequate value on it. Later, a
Google search suggested that there
isn't a provision for universal men-
tal health care in the works.
In the threefold healthcare plan
that President Barack Obama has
outlined, "prevention" is the third
step in improving the health care
paradigm, after insurance reform
and technology advancement. But
while "prevention" is illustrated
rather thoroughly on baracko-
bama.com - better nutrition, can-
cer screenings, electronic health
records, etc. - the plan entirely
disregards the nexus between men-
tal well-being and physical health.
According to the American Psycho-
logical Association's website, "50
to 70 percent of visits to primary
care physicians are for medical
complaints that stem from psycho-
logical factors." These factors are
primarily depression and anxiety.
That figure might sound ridicu-
lous. But when you consider that
health concerns ranging from blood
pressure and ulcers to acne often
have a psychological root, those
numbers mightnotactually seem so
absurd. Patients confuse these mal-
adies as purely physiological prob-
lems - but these issues are really
psychological in nature. Rather
than searching for a physical reme-
dy, the more prudent decision might
be to take a psychological approach.
Such a solution might even end up
beingcheaper in the long run with-
out the costs of exams, medical
technology and physical treatment,
somethingObama's healthcareplan
should consider.
Even current private insurers
rarely provide adequate coverage
for mental health care. Many insur-
ance plans cap mental health care
much more strictly than physical
health maintenance. A comprehen-
sive plan for health reform should
include coverage for the treat-

ment of mental illness and ought
to set limits for such treatment on
par with limits on physical medi-
cal care. In other words, a patient
should not have unlimited visits to a
physician but only 15 lifetime visits
to a mental health professional.
And the sad irony is that the least
financially fortunate, who are more
prone than others to mental illness
given their destitution, are often
faced with meager or no insurance
coverage for mental care. These are
people who need comprehensive
health care plans the most and are
the least able to obtain it.
Setting aside socioeconomic dis-
parities and psychosomatic condi-
tions -both ofwhichareimportant
health care realities - there are two
additional relevant problems when
it comes to psychological affects on
physical health: substance abuse
and obesity. These problems are
widespread in the U.S., and are
largely caused by mental vulner-
ability. It would seem that in the
government's quest to eliminate
health costs through "prevention,"
minimizing obesity and substance
abuse should be relatively easy to
facilitate through appropriate psy-
chological attention.
Mental health
care is not
expendenable.
In all the discussion about health
care and the government, it seems
that mental health care has been
ignored by both sides. Maybe it's
because psychotherapy is often dif-
ficult to understand or believe, or
perhaps politicians and pundits are
too myopic to think outside the box
about health care reform in gen-
eral. But as universal health care
becomes more and more likely, psy-
chological well-being needs to be
thrown into the debate.
It may be that by remaining
vague, Obama was hoping to pro-
vide Congress with a basic frame-
work upon which the legislature
might create a balanced plan that
would be more likely to pass into
law. NowthatCongressisgoinginto
recess during August, all congress-
men ought to meticulously deliber-
ate on health care reform and take
the time to think seriously about
mental health care. They'd have to
be nuts not to.
- Matthew Green can be
reached at greenmat@umich.edu.

So riddle me this.I took But ifI wantto work out Youw k out?
springclassesand fa at the CCRB during
enroed in fall classes, right? summer term, I have to pay want to woalittle
for a membership ader there pl
Okay. What's up with that?
Fl -
UT II e

A pplying to graduate
schools is a frustrating
task. It's made even more
infuriating
when you're an
international
student who
doesn't quali-
fy for federal
financial aid,
like me. And-
at a time when EMAD
local assistance ANSARI
programs like
the Michigan
Promise Zone Scholarship are
under threat, it's even harder to
draw attention to the financial
woes of international students.
It's pertinent to mention - and
easy to forget - that the effects
of the economic climate stretch
past national boundaries and
affect the ability to afford tuition
of prospective international stu-
dents and local students alike.
Unless international students are
provided even limited access to
scholarships and financial assis-
tance, the University will find
its international student popula-
tion dwindling and the quality of
overseas applicants declining.
When I applied to college, my
high school classmates bemoaned
the University's aid policy toward
international students. Many who
found themselves excluded from
the pool of funds opted for liberal
arts colleges like Carleton College
and Macalester College in Min-
nesota - both of which offered
significant scholarship opportu-
nities for overseas applicants.
The lack of funding opportu-
nities means that the University
attracts a certain type of inter-
national student - one with
the ability to pay the burgeon-
ing tuition fees the institution
demands. Cast in that light, inter-
national students are mistakenly
perceived as deep-pocketed and
unworthy. But while academic

standards dispel that image and
help maintain a minimum stan-
dard of excellence, a complete
absence of substantial financial
assistance deters even more qual-
ified prospective applicants.
Those who do attend find
themselves trimmingthe edges of
their degree programs. By either
accepting credits for advanced
high school courses or overload-
ing on courses, financially con-
strained students attempt to
graduate ahead of time. Caught
in a frenzied attempt to cut four
years in college down to three,
these students relinquish the tre-
mendous opportunities offered
on campus.
On top of rushed degrees,
international students are forced
to work or apply for student loans.
And while that's not unusual for
college students, the burden on
international students is consid-
erably higher. Most international
students arrive onF-1visas, which
prohibit off-campus employment,
and the search for work-study
employment opportunities is
arduous in a limited market. In
addition, most University-affili-
ated employers specify national-
ity or permanent residence in the
United States as prerequisites for
vacant jobs.
High-interest loans, in turn,
are hardly viable options for
already-burdened students.
Repaying loans restricts options
for graduates - international stu-
dents must work in the U.S. rather
than return home to contribute in
their own countries.
It's not surprising that inter-
national students haven't made
a concerted effort to obtain
aid from the University. Such
demands would be countered
with a barrage of retorts, partic-
ularly in the current recession. A
public university awarding funds
to international students when
in-state students sweat for finan-

cial aid would be accused of mis-
placed priorities.
But consider my proposition
- five significant scholarships
exclusively earmarked for inter-
national students, based both on
financial need and merit. That's
hardly an outrageous request.
Granted, the extremely limited
scholarships would not ease the
financial woes of all international
students, but they would gener-
ate a more competitive pool of
applicants and provide a prece-
dent for international students to
build upon and rally around.
International
students can't
find funding.
More importantly, the assis-
tance would protect global repre-
sentationoncampus,particularlyif
offered along country-specific cri-
teria. Each year, the London School
of Economics and Political Science
awards renewable yearly scholar-
ships to students from Mauritius,
Pakistan, Israel, Brazil and Hong
Kong. In Ann Arbor, the number
of freshmen from less represented
states like Bangladesh or Egypt
isn't likely to increase unless stu-
dents are provided some codified
incentive by the University.
Denied financial aid and fea-
sible scholarships, international
students are forced into restric-
tive options that inhibit both
their college experience and
future prospects. Unless this
burden is eased, representation
is protected and more qualified
applicants are attracted, only an
isolated few will benefit from a
University education.
- Emad Ansari can be reached
at heansari@umich.edu.


6

Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

030
CARS TRUCKS & More
10890 Grand River
Brighton, MI 48116
(810) 225-9750.
1998 SUBARU LEGACY Outback
Wagon 4WD, 5 speed, air,
AM/FM/CD/Cassette, power windows,
locks, alloy wheels. $2,950;
734-646-1375.

DAKOTA SLT, 2000 2WD, SATURN SL1, 1999 Auto,
Ext. cab, V6, Auto, Only 4 door, 117K, Sharp! Buy Here
$98/mo. (810) 225-9750. Pay Here! (810) 225-9750.
TRAILBLAZER LTZ, 2002 GRANDAM SE 1993
Leather, Loaded, Drives 4 Door, Loaded, 141K. Only $1495.
Perfect! Only $95 Down (810) 225-9750.
Sharp! 810-225-9750.
CIVIC LX, 2004 Auto,
SONOMA ZR2, 2000 V6 4dr, Air, new tires, Great Gas Mileage,
Ext. Cab, 4x4, Auto, Air, Only $95 Down. 810-225-9750.
Clean! $129/mo. Guaranteed
Financing! (810) 225-9750. KIA SPORTAGE 1999
4 door, Low Mileage, Very Nice!
MOUNTAINEER AWD, 2002 $99 down, 810-225-9750.
V8, New wheels & Tires. F
3rd Row, Clean! Guaranteed F150 EXT CAB, 1999
Financing! 810-225-9750. Auto, Air, Ext Cah,
Financing!_810-225-9750. _ 4x4, Nerf bars, Guaranteed
Financing! 810-225-9750.

RELEASE DATE- Monday, July 27, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 40 Whack, as a fly 53 Quarterback Brett
1 Thingamajig 1 Chew the fat 42 Clickable PC with a record 464
6 Castaway's 2 Big name in image TD passes
home gloves 43 Some West 54 Charlie of
10 Unpaid credit 3 ft's to thefar right Indian religious 57-Across
card bills, e.g. on freeways cultists 56 Etiquette author
14 - of the tongue 4 Sal of "Exodus" 44 Racetrack Post
15 Celebrity chef 5 Where pirates border 58 "The Thin Man"
Bobby prey 45 Alpo or Pedigree dog
16 Provo's state 6 Farfrom certain 46 Forty winks 59 Yanks'third
17 Trailblazer 7 Covered with 47 "Animal Farm" baseman,
Daniel thick, icky liquid author George familiary
18 Bad thing to yell 8 Lash ofold 48 Inferior cigar 63 Switch positions
in a crowded caters
theater 9 Placefor mascara ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Hosiery hue 10 Sunny and Char A F
20 Borax haulers, in song. e.g. M ALT 0 U O WAR S
classic ads 11 "Yada, yada, E XUBSE RAN CE WAR
23 Beskind f yada..." LI ZAWI THAZ I DED
situation 12 President Obama B 00 NA S A R A I N I E R
24Annualperiod 13Hitchhikers'digits A N N O Y R O I S K O R T
25 Getting the job 21 Be a ratfink F R A I D NOT D A U
done, briefly 22 Witty Bombeck
26 Pig.._..poke 23 TV's Nick at.._. S E 0 U E L E AR A I N T
27Santastafer 28Chimney dut P R U S S I A S I G N A G E
29 Eager lip sounds 30 Not much A G E E T M S B U G L E S
31 Cowboy's 32 Party invitee's R O B F O N T A I N E
topper buy EMERY E LS GRASP
35"..._saw Elba" 33 Non-Rx T E C H I E S T V A L E
36 Sport 34 Without ice
versatile vehicle 38 False I TIOO L I GUI G 0/D I ET 9
37LAPDalerts appearance R E IN MA TTE BlORND I
41!Puker game 398Kim of"LA. E R SE SC RE E NT E ST
where one might Cofidential" xwerdedllerreaal.eam 07/27/ne
stand pat
46Sam'sClub 1 2 3 4 6 8 s 18 9 1 11 12 13
competitor
49 Confucian "path"
50 That, in Tijuana
51 Sculptures, oils,
etc. 20 2 2
52 Sock-in-the-gut
responses, in 23 24 25
comics
55 Words of 2 2 6 29 30
understanding a 32 33 34
57 CBS sitcom since
2003 38 e37 38 39 40
60 Darkroom
images, or short 41 42 43 aa
61 Radioer's "Back
toyou" 449 5
62 New Wave band s1 s2 s3 54 56
_ Boingo
64 Settled on a 53 a
branch, as a bird
65 Twistable cookie 60 61 62 83
66 Actress Mary-
Kateor Ashley 64 65 86
67 bargain: court
deal 67 6836
68 E-mail button
69 Salon colorists BrSamuelA.Donaldsan07/27/09
(c)2009 TribuneMeda rice~ss, 1,c. 1/7


LUMINA LS, 1996 4 Door,
Auto, Air, New tires, Only $2695.
(810) 225-9750.
GUARANTEED CREDIT APPROVAL
No Credit, Bad Credit, No Problem!
LEASE TO OWN
12-month to 36-month terms available
Online Loan Applications
NICE WHEELS-GREAT DEALS
810-225-9750
10890 Grand River, Brighton
(BetweentldUS-23&Pleasant Valley)
020 A
*HOUSE FOR SALE by Owner*
4 Blocks UM Stadium 2100 sq ft.
Burns Park El. 3 bdrm, 2.5 baths,
office. Many Updates.
$349,900. 734-883-3014.
025
!!!!!!!!!!!!!r! PARKING!!!!!!!!
We got "YOUR" spot at one of our
"Prime" lots! Call 734-761-8000 for
the locations & rates!
PARKING AVAIL TO rent. 741-9300
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.

! PRIVATE ROOMS at the all-new 4
ELEVEN LOFTS from $750, fur-
nished. Grad-only apartments avail-
able. Individual contract, 24-hr. man-
agement. Sale ends Aug. 4, call for de-
tails. 734-998-4400. 4elevenlofts.com
!!! 2 BDRM BI-LEVEL !!! 1.5 baths,
fully furnished, directv, internet, heat
all included. Game room, fitness room
and free winter shuttle. 741-9300 www.-
annarborapartments.net
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $399/mo. 845-399-9904.
$$ FOREST PLACE $$
Reduced Rents-721 S. Forest
Great location!
Furnished, heat, water & parking
included!
**FREE Internet**
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*** CORNER HOUSE *** 2 & 3
bdrms on central campus. Spectacular
views, lots of closet space, modern fur-
niture & much more! 741-9300 www.-
annarborapartments.net
***FOR FALL LEASE***
1, 2, 3 , 4 bdrm. apt. on central campus.
2 bdrm at 908 Sybil, 408 Hill, & 1026
Vaughn. 3 bdrm at 1600 Packard.
4 bedroom at 912 Sybil,
www.jmpsprop.com 734-769-7025.
734-355-4119 (weekends)
*4 BDRM HOUSE, 2 bath, A/C, free
prkg., Idry., walk to campus, 649-7571.
UoftMStudent/Employee Discount!
First month free, no application fee!
3perfect
Locations!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting with
outdoor recreation areas, a naturally
wooded green space, or asparkling
tiver view. Spacious 1- & 2-bdrm apts.
with halconiesor patios. Walk-it
closets. Free storage. On-site.laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRMS MINUTES from busi-
ness/law school. Fully furnished, bal-
cony, parkiug and much more. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOM, 2 bath. 3rd floor, fire
place, indoor pool, racket club. Free
carport. Pauline & Stadium.
248-318-9759.
2 BEDROOM, ONE bath across from
the University of Michigan hospital.
Free parking. $1100. Utilities included.
248-318-9759.
3 BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE for the
price of a 2 bedroom. $1100. Waive ap-
plication fee upon first. Call the office
for details. 734-663-7633.
classifieds
continued on
the next page


Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7

the michigan daily
Competitively Priced Apartments Available!
Apartments

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
lnfo@issaproperties.com
AVAILABLE NOW OR Sept. loca-
tion! Corner of South Forest and South
U. Eff. 1/2 bdrms. 734-996-2836.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm apt. w/ security
buzzer. Laundry facility & separate
storage lockers. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.

www.artonbrook am, 734-665-56201
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ]dry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwood floors, jacuzzi. $1995/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet. Rent for Summer $300,
Fall $440. Call 734-276-0886.
DOWNTOWN/KERRYTOWN STU-
DIO & 1 bdrms available w/ bay win-
dows, walk-in closet and parking. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FIRST MO. FREE! No application
Fee. I & 2 bdrm. apts. Great North
Campus Location Call now! 663-8463.
FREE COVERED PARKING -
Lease a 2-BR Premium H-Style apart-
ment and forget about scraping the ice
off your car this Winter. Limited Sup-
ply. Call us today. 734-761-2680.
GIFT CARD GIVEAWAY! - Lease
in August & pick 2 items from the list
at www.universitytowers-mi.com.
IKEA, Target, Movie Theater, Dining
Gift Cards and MORE! 734-761-2680.
GREAT STUDIO IN prime location.
heat/water incl. fully fin. free prkg.
$699/mo. 734-665-8825.
wwwvarstymanagement com
625C hurch St.
(341 668-115
Rooms, Studios,
One & Two Bedrooms
See floor plans, photos,
and virtual tours at
www.varsitymanagemenT.com

IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
NEWLY REMODELED 3 bdrm
house, furnished, 2 baths, new appli-
ances, and large family room.
$1950/mo. available Aug. 09. 903 Syl-
van Ave. Call (313) 550-3312.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 1313 S. State.
Sept. 09. Lndry., A/C, heat, free prkg.
Call 734-904-6735.
NORTH CAMPUS
Don't Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet, beautiful location!
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Reduced Rates
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
RENT BY THE room options avail-
able on central campus. Furnished w/
utilities included. 741-9300 www.an-
narborapartments.net
U-PICK-2. Lease in August and take
your pick from our list of prizes. Go to
www.universitytowers-mi.com to view
the list. Cedar Point Tickets, Gift
Cards, & Appliances are up for grabs!
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus

NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrm apart-
ments. Lots of closet space, balcony w/
wooded views, free winter shuttle and
fitness room. 741-9300 www.annarbo-
rapartments.net
ser vices
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
BIG GUY FOR HIRE
MOVING LABOR SERVICES
dorms, residential, light commercial.
bonded & insured. rates at our website:

EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, RC.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment
are looking for women
between the ages of 21-35
to donate eggs.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous. Qualified donors
who are accepted into the
program will be financially
compensated for their time.
If interested please call
734-434-4766

VIUUa11UG, lm tVlWmt.
http://bigguyforhire.com
*n313-.406-.8151
Ch ild Care
WWW.BANKFOX.COM Compare
banks, learn at
www.bankfox.com/c/no-atm-fees and
www.bankfox.com/c/liquid-cds
BABYSITTER - PART-time child-
care for 6 month old. Prior experience
preferred. Email vedant.sriram@gmail.-
com
NANNY NEEDED MON. & Fri.
3-6pm for 3 & 5 yr. old girls, more
when A2 schools closed, starting Sept.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $304) /day poten Must have car. German-speaking a plus.-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary, kkarbst@umich.edu
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.

Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefhnd.umich.edu or 763.4400.
DOMINICK'S NOW HIRING all po-
sitions for fall F/PT. Call 734-323-5021.
NEED A SUMMER job? My garden
needs weeding, trimming, mulching,
etc. If you are confident, reliable and
like to work fax resume 734-663-7553.
PART TIME ASSISTANT - Paper
work in small office. Business/account-
ing helpful. Fax resume 734-663-7553.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
SUMMER WORK
College Pro Painters Now Hiring
Full Time Work, Outdoors w/ Students
Earn 3-5K
1.800.32 PAINT
www.collegepro.com

ADOPTION-LOVING AND finan-
cially secure couple living in suburban
area with excellent schools dreams of
adopting baby. Both UM grads.
Promise to provide home full of love,
learning, and laughter. Homestudy ap-
proved through licensed Michigan
agency. Contact Keith and Kelly at
877-273-3075 or
keithandkelly2008@yahoo.com
Daily Classifieds:
serving the UoIM
yoU've community for
been hundreds upon
served hundreds ors.so
years..


81

Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Ann Arbor News closes after printing for 174 years
AnnArbor.com to industry" and the consequential executive vice president. doing research on computers than
economic impact that forced pub- According to Champion, 274 any other Southeastern Michigan
replace local paper lishers to decide to close The Ann Ann Arbor News employees were city," he said.
Arbor News in March. laid off due to the paper's closing, Hurlbutt, a subscriber to The
By LARA ZADE "I' hope you will remember us and about 25 have been hired by Ann Arbor News for 25 years, was
ManagingNewsEditor for the contributions and impact AnnArbor.com. reading his copy of the last edi-
that we have made over the last 174 "We've had a very open employ- tion as he sat outside Starbucks
After 174 years, The Ann Arbor years," Champion also wrote. ment process at AnnArbor.com," on South Main Street. He said he
News - Ann Arbor's local, long- In honor of the final paper, The Champion said. "Everyone's had a would read the paper every day
standing, daily print newspaper Ann Arbor News printed an addi- chance to apply." and added that he'll miss the daily
- published its final print edition tional 12,000 copies. The demise of print newspapers ritual he created around perusing
Thursday. The print version of The Ann in many cities across the country the print edition.
Rather than featuring breaking Arbor News was replaced by raises the question of whether com- "I would come home from work,
local news, such as City Council AnnArbor.com - a free website munities will adapt to an online do my exercises, eat dinner, and
meeting plans or the latest crime launched Friday that will offer local medium for daily news. after dinner I'd sit down and read
reports, Thursday's main headline news and distribute a print edition But according to Kraner, the the newspaper," he said.
read "Farewell, Ann Arbor." The on Sundays and Thursdays. The internet-savvy Ann Arbor commu- Hurlbutt added that he plans to
final paper showcased a timeline of Web site is managed by Matthew nity is ready to adjust to the new use AnnArbor.com to stay current
the publication's history and a clos- Kraner, AnnArbor.com president Web site. As published in a March with city political events and other
ing column from publisher Laurel and chief executive officer, and 23 Ann Arbor News article, AnnAr- local information.
Champion. Tony Dearing, AnnArbor.com chief bor.com representatives found in a Ann Arbor resident Allen Hizer,
"It's been a great run," Champion content leader and a former Ann survey ofthe Ann Arbor region that also an avid reader of The Ann
wrote in the column. Arbor News managing editor as 92 percent of the community "has Arbor News, was enjoying his copy
Champion cited the "devastating well as a former editor of the Flint the skills and technology set-up to of the final edition of the paper
transformation of the newspaper Journal. Champion is the Web site's get online news." while eating lunch at Cloverleaf
Guy Hurlbutt, an Ann Arbor Restaurant on East Liberty Street.
resident and former University Hizer said he's not yet used to
Fam iyowned, international awa~rdl-winningemployee, said he thinks the new reading news content on the Inter-
Web site will do well in Ann Arbor net, but that he, along with the rest
because the city is home to intel- of the community, will adapt to the
p lectual citizens who keep up with change for news coverage.
technology. "Ithinkit'sjustgoingto be alearn-
"Because of the educational ing curve for everyone to accept the
level in town and with the Univer- new medium," Hizer said.
sity here, I think that people are - The Associated Press contrib-
more used to using computers and uted to this report.

LAWSUIT
From Page 3
stated that the University did not
have "actual or constructive notice
of a defect of a public building" and
therefore could not "take action to
protect the public against the con-
dition."
Smith's death was one of three
fatal construction accidents on
campus in the last 16 months.
University Spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham wrote in an e-mail
interview that Smith's death was
an unfortunate event that has
been difficult for the many parties
involved to cope with and that the
University is still dealing with the
legal process regarding the law-
suit.
"This is a difficult situation for
everyone, and the University is
working through the court process
on the legal matters," she wrote.
Representatives from the Mich-
igan Occupational Safety and
Health Administration investi-
gated Smith's death and concluded
that Schindler Elevator Company
failed to make employees aware of
an accident prevention program,
adequately inspect the construc-
tion site for hazardous conditions
and enforce that all employeeswear
protective helmets while entering
and leaving the work site. MIOSHA
issued three fines to the company
totaling $9,400 on Dec. 12.

ghJtMIchiaan Daitu P R E S E N T S

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Male gusto can't save chick flick

Despite avoiding some genre
cliches, 'The Ugly Truth' suffers
from a weak, predictable script
By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
In an overtly generic romantic comedy, the female pro-
tagonist inevitably wins the battle against the stereotypical
bawdiness of her male lover, either through
manipulation and cunning or with tender-
ness and passion. This formula, albeit posi-
tively received by the female moviegoer, is
often an emasculating experience for her
male companion. This unfortunate out- TIht
come is so often repeated that it debases At Qualityl6
most romantic films to the dubious label of and Showcase
chick flick. This is not the case in "The Ugly
Truth." Columbia
The film follows Abby Richter (Kather-
ine Heigl, "Knocked Up"), a local television
producer living in Sacramento whose obsessive-compulsive
approach to dating would induce nausea in even the most
stoic man alive.
One night, an extraordinary accident leads to Richter
engaging in an awkward telephone conversation with the
uncouth (to say the least) host of a public access television
show. Mike Chadway (Gerard Butler, "300") espouses his

simplistic, sexualized take on love in his show FILM R
"The Ugly Truth."
His chauvinism immediately offends Rich-
ter's fragile temperament, and she is horrified
the following day when she finds out that the
manager of her local television network has
invited Chadway to move his show to their net-
work. Chaos ensues as Richter is caught in an ,v
inelegant love triangle.
"The Ugly Truth" is filled with glaring flaws.
The weak script consigns Heigl's and Butler's
characters to complete one-dimensionality:
Anna's "humor" involves rambling rants that,
however verbally eloquent, amount to little
more than an annoying buzz in the ears of
the viewer. Mike's brand of humor is equally
contrived, and his chauvinist characteristics
almost perfectly parallel those of Frank T.J.
Mackey (Tom Cruise) in the film "Magnolia."
Coincidence? I think not. "This is madn
Also worth a mention are the poorly devised
visuals, which employ the use of backdrops so obviously fake
the film looks like it was produced in the 1940s.
But despite the film's pitfalls, it breaks some of the chick-
flick genre's conventions. Certain expectations must be fore-
gone in an era of filmmaking in which the focal point is the
bottom line rather than fresh material. "The Ugly Truth" may
not give viewers a script ofunadulterated originality, but it still
earns a position slightly above the typical romantic comedy.
Though the outcome is altogether predictable, the film

ess!" "No! This is A VERY NICE PARK!"
manages to offer a fresh, unexpectedly crass viewpoint that
rewards viewers with a healthy number of laugh-worthy
moments. It's nice to see a romance that doesn't entail a bum-
bling man who's constantly being outwitted by a member of
the "smarter sex."
More importantly, the film addresses the troubling, cynical
outlook on love that has been adopted by contemporary male
culture and is all too often overlooked - though it's a shame
that it can't present the concept in a more thoughtful manner.


10

Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Polite hipsters at Pitchfork

By JEFF SANFORD
Senior Arts Editor
To begin, a corny - but, in a roundabout
way, thought-provoking - joke I heard
while attending this year's Pitchfork Music
Festival:
Q: "How many hipsters does it take to
screw in a lightbulb?"
A: "It's a pretty obscure number. You've
probably never heard of it."
This joke was met with groans and blank
stares, plus one "shutup." ButI'mnot includ-
ing it because it's funny. Rather, ithelps clar-
ify why I was a little apprehensive about this
year's Pitchfork Music Festival.
Fact: The bulk of Pitchfork's audience was
comprised of late-teens and twenty-some-
things in various stages of hipsterdom. I saw
enough plaid and flannel shirts to wallpaper
the Sistine Chapel - hipsters as far as thy
eye could see.
In effect, the Pitchfork Festival, housed
in Chicago's Union Park, was a giant conflu-
ence of people who - as the joke reminds
us - pride themselves on obscurity and
smug eccentricity. I had thought that at
some point during the festival, a lot of these
people would take a look around and real-
ize they resembled practically everyone else
around them. They would become aware
that they weren't as unconventional as they
once thought.
And herein lies the seeming paradox that
had bothered me in the days preceding the
festival. How can Pitchfork cater to its audi-
ence if it inherently contradicts everything
they stand for?
Fortunately, there was no evidence of an
identity-crisis pandemic in Union Park. In
fact, the paradox I'd been contemplating
beforehand dissolved as soon as I entered
the festival grounds Friday evening.
To be sure, the crowd at Pitchfork had
to be one of the most reasonable, polite and

generally caring crowds ever assembled in musicianship of the festival.
the name of music. My feet were stepped on, John Hughes pop revivalists The Pains
my back elbowed and my ribs gored. But not of Being Pure at Heart were charming and
once did the offending person fail to apolo- cute, but despite issuing a stellar debut ear-
gize. A guy with a Tortoise shirt on didn't lier this year, their live show suffered from a
scoff when a girl behind him asked who Tor- lack of dynamics and panache.
toise was, even though the band was playing But I was floored by Brooklyn's Yeasayer.
at the time. When Pharoahe Monch com- Looking back, I count the sun peaking out
manded everyone in the audience - despite from the ever-looming clouds during their
its overwhelming whiteness - to put their song "Sunrise" as one of the festival's high-
right fists up a la a Black Power salute, they lights.
did, dammit. And without irony, even. The National was the headliner Satur-
day night, and it may have had one of the
best overall sets of the weekend. The sound
Black Power and was full and layered, and vocalist Matt
Berninger gave the crowd everything he
pulsating vaginas. had, even marching into the audience dur-
ing the manic "Mr. November."
Grizzly Bear, who had the unfortunate
position of playing right before The Flam-
What I'm saying is that at Pitchfork, ing Lips, was marred with sound problems
the music came first. And while I'm sure a (problems in the control booth were a com-
majority of the outfits worn by attendees mon theme throughout Pitchfork). Inces-
were meticulously prearranged, it was clear sant, ear-ringing bass feedback filled the
that once the bands started playing, image gaps between songs, making the audience,
became mostly a distant concern. but especially the band, very uncomfortable.
With the Pitchfork paradox debunked But when the band started playing, all was
and my apprehension thoroughly squelched forgiven. The vocals were nearly perfect,
by early Friday evening, I had time to focus and the breakdown during "Fine For Now"
on more important things, like my band- was probably the best musical statement of
seeing strategy. I decided, save for a few the day.
rogue amblings, to camp out at a particu- Things ended abruptly when The Lips'
lar stage, securing a front-row spot but Wayne Coyne's voice echoed from the adja-
also missing some bands I wanted to see at cent stage and Grizzly Bear's Dan Rossen
other stages. concluded with a meek "I guess we're done
In retrospect, I think I made the right now."
decision. I rarely ate, drank or went to the The Lips were literally born onto the
bathroom, but there's really nothing that stage, emerging from behind a giant LCD
compares to consistently being a few yards screen that displayed a pulsating, neon
away from your favorite bands. Plus, I felt vagina. The rest of their set can't really be
a sort of pride when I looked back from my expressed in words. They used a rumored
privileged position and saw thousands of $5000 worth of confetti, hundreds of zep-
faces vying for a closer look. pelin-sized balloons that were pogoing off
Built to Spill was very impressive, show- the crowd for the entirety of the show and
ing off its 17-plus years of experience, and an embryonic bubble in which Coyne rolled
Doug Martsch's guitar into the crowd. While the music was some-
work on "Conventional times less-than-spectacular (they unnec-
Wisdom" might have essarily slowed down both "Yoshimi" and
been the deftest display of "Fight Test" to ballad speed), they certainly
had a full-blown spectacle on their
hands. I'm not even a huge Lips fan,
DfISCoL B92 lRERS but I don't think I stopped smiling
once during the show.
HOURS The set ended with a stunning
rendition of "Do You Realize?" per-
Mon-Fri 9:QO-5:O0pm haps a little too early (strict neigh-
Sat 8:30-3:O0pm borhood noise curfews, I suspect).
And that was it. The 2009 Pitch-
*' p mfork Music Festival was over. We
were left with a "Please file out
So* orderly and quietly" and an unset-
-34 -689329 tling absence of music. My back was
spasming and my feet were numb
from long-term standing. I was
bothdehydrated andstarving. Iwas
in a coma-like state from prolonged
yBom musical overstimulation. But the
n Arbor only thought that ran through my
WWW.DASCOLABA"ERS.COM head was: "I feel bad for the person
WALK-INS WELCOME. who has to clean this shit up."

Hippest hipsters ever


Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Burgoon has All-Star experience

Wolverine pitcher
dominates summer
Cape Cod League
By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
BOSTON - It was tough to pick
junior Tyler Burgoon out of the
crowd of baseball players huddled
around Fenway Park's third base
dugout on Thursday.
All of the Cape Cod Baseball
League players on hand for the
Cape League All-Star Game were
dressed in similar warm-up jerseys
- and all had ear-to-ear grins on
their faces.
Burgoon was no exception.
Even as the pre-game drizzle
turned into a steady rain and the

Burgoon couldn't wipe that smile
from his face.
The right-handed Wolverine,
like many other players on that
field Thursday, was simply thrilled
to be on the field at a big-league
park. The fact that it was Fenway,
a cathedral of incredible baseball
history - well, that was simply
icing on the cake.
"I walked up, went through a lit-
tle hallway and just saw the field,"
Burgoon said, with an awestruck
glance at the infield before the
game. "It was pretty nice to know
that I was going to be pitching from
that mound."
Unfortunately for the Cape Cod
League and half of its All-Star
pitching staff, rain prevented the
All-Star game from continuing past
the fifth inning. After four and a
half innings, and a 3-0 lead by the
Western Division, the game was
Mention This AD
And Receive $100 Off. Now is the
perfect time to prep with the
nation's leader in test preparation.
-Small Classes
" Expert Instructors
" Free Extra Help
Review
-UU

called due to rain and poor field
conditions.
Burgoon was one ofnine unlucky
pitchers who didn't get a chance to
throw his inning from the Fenway
mound.
As a closer for the Yarmouth-
Dennis Red Sox, Burgoon has
posted a league-leading 11 saves,
giving up just one earned run in 15
appearances (through July 26). His
30 strikeouts to six walks in 19.3
innings ranks him among the best
pitchers in the league.
So it was understandable that
Eastern Division All-Star man-
ager Steve Englert would be saving
Burgoon for the late innings of last
Thursday's game - the innings that
ended up being rained out.
"Before Thursday's game start-
ed, during the national anthem and
introductions, (Vanderbilt closer)
Russell Brewer looked over at
me, and he was like, 'No chance,"'
Burgoon said yesterday of Thurs-
day's game. "We were throwing
the eighth and the ninth. There
was no chance. We kind of knew it
wasn't going to happen. It was nice
that they let the game get played as
much as it did, though."
And even without pitching, Bur-
goon had a pretty busy and exciting
day. Thursday began with a 9:30
a.m. bus trip from Barnstable to
Boston, about a 90-minute drive.
Burgoon and the other All-Stars
went out to lunch in the city and
sat through a brief lecture by the
Boston Red Sox scouting director.
The highlight for many players
that night came when they arrived
at the ballpark -- a tour of historic
Fenway Park.
Preparations for the actual
All-Star game followed -- getting
dressed, shagging balls during

Junior Tyler Burgoon had an ERA hovering near five last season, but in the Cape C.
League this summer, he's found his stride, leading the league in saves as a closer.

batting practice and the pre-game
home run hitting contest.
Pitchers claimed it was the first
time they'd ever gotten excited to
field balls in the outfield during
batting practice. Burgoon said he
was shocked and that he enjoyed
seeingrteammates "yoke" it out over
the Green Monster.
Thursday marked Burgoon's
second trip to Fenway this summer.
The Defiance, Ohio, native attend-
ed a Red Sox game a few weeks ago
as a fan, calling it the best experi-
ence he's ever had at a major league
baseball park.

He will go again this Thursday
for the Cape League All-Star appre-
ciation afternoon game.
Even with the disappointment
that accompanied not pitching in
the All-Star game, Burgoon still took
away the positives from his experi-
ence. What mattered was that he
was honored as an All-Star, and even
more important, he got to take the
field at Fenway among the most tal-
ented players in the Cape League.
"Some of the best players in the
nation are here," Burgoon said yes-
terday. "Even just getting to play
with them is great."

Scooters starting at $995
Great for Campgrounds, College Campus,
Neighborhoods and Fun to Ride!
Up to 117 Miles Per Gallon (49.5 cc)
Honda designed engine built by Schwinn-
a name you can trust
Includes 2-yearwarranty & free delivery


12

Monday, July 27, 2009
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


;_ ;
_ s 4
s 4 J
'.. i
d
a t #
a ' _ , 
6 f
-Yr Y
4 C
5 8
&
fl %
1
!' a
' a ;:
,g
F 4 . x

i p '
F
S ,.: ,

}

b
r6 P F
/OJO000,
1

4 1 t

oel

___ .
__

-- 01

Sophomore Justin Feagin appeared in only four games last season, with no starts.
Feagin dismissed
after rule violation

41 a 4 4 -4a
-. ~ , . .. <.

.:.
All
t

Reas
rema
Michi
Rodrigu
uncertai
mobile, s
to Ann A
sophomi
missed f
"Justi
from th
team r
Rodrigu
statemer
Departs
No in
of the di
severe e
the team
Feagi
son and
quarterb
recruitir
the hig
Pryor p
Wolveri
A rel
Feagin E
Rivals.c
from th
Southeri
ly devel
accuracy
the teat
Steven T
for the s
In fa
original:
Deerfiel
decided
igan's 29
Sat. Nov
Altho
pass in
at what
- runni
position.

on for dismissal sevenattempts, including a 34-yard
scamper midway through the sec-
iins undisclosed and quarter.
The game was Feagin's best -
By ANDY REID and only even slightly memorable
Daily Sports Editor - game at Michigan. After burning
his redshirt, Feagin racked up just
igan football coach Rich seven more rushing yards in very
ez's first foray into the limited action.
in world of introducing And Feagin's chances at playing
pread-option quarterbacks time only diminished post-2008.
arbor ended Saturday, when Although Threet transferred to
ore Justin Feagin was dis- Arizona State earlier this season,
rom the team. Tate Forcier - the team's likely
.n Feagin was dismissed starter going into summer prac-
e team for a violation of tice - and Denard Robinson were
ules Thursday evening," brought in with this year's recruit-
ez said in a prepared ing class.
nt released by the Athletic Now loaded with quarterbacks
tent on Saturday. who could run and throw in the
formation about the nature style that suits Rodriguez's spread-
smissal - or of the violation option attack, Feagin's days at the
nough for expulsion from quarterback position were num-
- is available at this time. bered.
n played sparingly last sea- And after Forcier impressed
was best known as the only coaches and fans alike at the annu-
tack in Rodriguez's first al Spring Game, his spot above
ng class at Michigan, after Feagin was seemingly cemented in
hly sought-after Terrelle the depth chart. Feagin spent much
icked Ohio State over the of his time in the spring practicing
nes. with the receiving corps.
atively unheralded recruit, In all likelihood, that's where he
garnered three stars from was going to end up on the 2009
om and scholarship offers roster, where he figured to play slot
te likes of Rutgers and receiver.
n Miss. Feagin never real- Looking forward, Feagin's
oped the arm strength or dismissal from the team should
y to seriously compete with have only a minimal effect on the
m's other quarterbacks - Wolverines. With Forcier, Robin-
'hreet and Nick Sheridan - son and Sheridan at quarterback,
tarting job in 2008. Feagin would have likely not had
ct, the coaching staff had much of a presence at quarterback,
ly planned to redshirt the and Michigan has quite a bit of tal-
d, Fla. native, but the staff ent at slot receiver.
against it in time for Mich- The Wolverines' leading pass
-6 victory at Minnesota on catcher from 2008 - sophomore
. 8. Martavious Odoms - is back at the
ugh he never attempted a slot, and redshirt freshmen Ter-
the game, Feagin excelled rance Robinson and Roy Roundtree
he was recruited to do and incoming freshman Jeremy
ing from the quarterback Gallon all have the abilities to excel
. He collected 49 yards on at the position.

$1000

. COURTYARDS
www.thecourtyardsanna rbor.com
734-994-6007
,r f." *some restrictions apply ..


