~I~e E~dpan4hI,

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, September 14, 2009

s

michigandaily.com
IVENGN MAR CA MPU
Students hit
by string of
burglaries

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Michigan quarterback Tate Forcier (5) gets a hug from wide receiver Darryl Stonum during Michigan's 38-34 upset victory over rival Notre Dame Saturday at the Big House.
'M'wins Rodriguez's way

For several, football
victory soured by
missing belongings
$y DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
LSA senior Michael Kaplan
was ecstatic returning home
from the Wolverines' victory over
the Fighting Irish Saturday night.
But Kaplan's joy quickly turned to
dismay.
Upon opening his locked bed-
room door, Kaplan soon found
that part of his window had been
removed from its frame and his
laptop was stolen.
"Everyone was having a good
time, we were all so excited,"
Kaplan said. "Then I go in my
room and find that my laptop is
gone. It completely ruined the fun
of the day."
And it turns out he wasn't the
only one.
Kaplan was just one of many
students who fellvictimto a series
of home invasions that occurred
this past weekend, resulting in
the theft of laptops and other
electronic devices. The invasions
occurred in the heavily student
populated neighborhood south of
campus.
At least four separate homes
were burglarized this week-
end, but the Daily received tips
for two others that could not be
confirmed. Multiple phone calls
placed to these individuals were
not returned by yesterday night.
The Ann Arbor Police Depart-

ment currently has no suspects
in any of the reported burglaries,
and no reported witnesses, offi-
cials say. Police do not yet know
if any of the home invasions are
linked, but theyare not ruling out
the possibility.
AAPD Lieutenant Myron
Blackwell said that because the
crimes occurred over the week-
end, the police reports have not
yet been compiled. He added that
the information would be avail-
able today.
While he said that he is not
always aware of the crimes that
are committed while he is off
duty, Blackwell said he thinks
the number of home invasions
that occurred this weekend is not
abnormal for this time of the year.
"It's just the second week of -
school," Blackwell said. "Profes-
sional (thieves) know students
won't be locking their doors; they
come with that knowledge into
the area. Getting into student
houses isn't difficult for a profes-
sional."
LSA junior Ellis Hamburger,
who lives on VaughnWStreet,
arrived home Friday night from
a party to find that his computer
was missingfrom his room. Upon
checking the rest of the househis
roommates found that their com-
puters, computer chargers and an
iPod had also been taken. Ham-
burger said the intruder entered
by climbing through a window in
the back of the house that did not
have a lock on it.
Hamburger said he has spoken
with a number of people since
See CRIME, Page 7A

Rich Rod's system
shines in his most
compelling victory
at Michigan yet
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
Rich Rodriguez's first 603 days
as Michigan's head football coach
didn't go as planned.
So after the Wolverines' 38-34
} upset victory of No.18 Notre Dame,
it's understandable he was acting
unusual on day 604.

"He was actually in a different
mood than I rarely see - he was
all bubbly and happy like he won
a million
dollars," MICHIGAN 38
junior NOTRE DAME 34
safety
Troy Woolfolk said. "It was equiva-
lent to that because he knows this
game was a big step to getting back
the old respect we had."
You could say that "old respect"
last came when Michigan upset Flor-
ida in the 2008 Capital One Bowl, or
even as far back as 2006, the last time
Michigan started its season 2-0.
That respect returned when the
Wolverines(2-O) awokelateyesterday

morning to a No. 25 national ranking
- Michigan's first under Rodriguez.
It brought relief when a national
audience saw true freshman quar-
terback Tate Forcier connect with
senior wideout Greg Mathews in
the Michigan end zone on a per-
fectly executed play with 11 sec-
onds left in the game.
And for the first time in Rodri-
guez's 21-month tenure, the win
removed his head from the formi-
dable chopping block.
Since Rodriguez left his alma
mater for what has become the not-
so-comfy confines of Ann Arbor,
criticisms against him have mounted.
Pundits said his spread offense

couldn't work at Michigan.
His perceived coaching philoso-
phy wasn't up to the standards of a
"Michigan Man."
Amid recent allegations that the
Wolverines exceeded NCAA limits
on practice and conditioningtimes,
Rodriguez could not escape ques-
tions about his character.
Winning big in a rivalry game
will quiet a lot of criticisms. But
winning his way makes those criti-
cisms barely audible.
"I said this for the lastnine months
- our guys have been all in," Rodri-
guez said. "To watch the way they
work, legally, to watch the way they
See RICH ROD, Page 7A


WORKING OUT ON CAMPUS
Cutbacks lead to more
rec. facility complaints

Chief justice offers advice, laughs

With budget in mind,
Rec. Sports shortens
IM Building's hours
By VALIANT LOWITZ
Daily StaffReporter
LSA junior Evan Begun, who
lives near the Intramural Sports
Building, prefers to work out in the
morning before class.
But after the University scaled
back the IM Building's hours,
Begun now has to walk across cam-
pus to fit in hitting the gym.
"It's a lot more difficult getting
my workout in before class now
that I have to walk to the CCRB
(Central Campus Recreation Build-
ing)," Begun said.
And Begun isn't alone.
After the IM Building shortened
itshours inthe morningandevening,
some students were forced to alter
their workout routines. For example,
in the morning, the IM building now
opens at 8:30 a.m., while last semes-
ter it opened at 7 a.m..
Director of Recreational Sports
William Canning said the changes
were "absolutely financial in nature."
"The a.m. hours were not well
attended, and the evening hours
were not well attended," he said.
"And with the financial difficulties

that we are experiencing, cutting
the building hours will help to get
our budget back into balance."
"I understand the need to save
money," said Kevin Raftery, an
LSA sophomore, "butthere must be
some other way that does not affect
such a large amount of students."
Canning said the department
has suffered a drop in revenues,
as most of its funding comes from
memberships held by University
faculty and staff.
"Fifty percent of the speculative
income comes from between 3,000
and 3,500 faculty and staff member-
ships," Canning said. "Those 3,000
folks are basically subsidizing a lot
of the use by 30,000 students."
But recently, he said, staff and
faculty memberships have dipped,
causingtRecreational Sports to
reevaluate its budget.
At the same time, some students
think more should be spent on
facilities, not less.
Engineering sophomore Jake
Askari, who uses the IM Building
daily, finds the facility subpar.
"I know that many other univer-
sities have televisions next to their
cardio equipment and a lot newer
equipment," he said.
LSA sophomore Jake Holbrook
agrees.
"It would be nice to have more
See REC FACILITIES, Page 3A

At Hill Auditorium,
John Roberts talks
law, takes cheap
shot at Yale
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Speaking before a crowded Hill
Auditorium, U.S. Supreme Court
Chief Justice John Roberts shared
his insights and a couple of laughs
as he fielded questions from audi-
ence members during his visit to
the University last weekend.
Roberts was on campus to cele-
brate the 150th anniversary of the
University's Law School. While
at the University, he participated

in a wide range of events, includ-
ing attending the weekend's Notre
Dame game at the Big House. The
question-and-answer session was
open only to faculty, staff, students
and alumni of the Law School.
Law SchoolDean Evan Camink-
er introduced Roberts and began
the eventby asking Roberts a series
of questions.
When asked what surprised him
most when becoming a member of
the court, Roberts told audience
See ROBERTS, Page 8A
MORE ON JOHN
ROBERTS'S VISIT
Read about the Law School's
groundbreaking event at
michigandaily.com.

ctF REEDER/Daily
U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts talks at Hill Auditorium on Friday.

DANGER EHoIND T HwE W H EElL
State House considers ban on texting while driving

18 other states have
already enacted
similar legislation
By STEPHANIE BERLIANT
Daily StaffReporter
At work, in class, inbed or walk-
ing, text messaging has become
a regular part of daily life. But
Michigan residents may soon be

putting down the Blackberry - at
least while operating a vehicle. If
two new bills pass the legislature,
text messaging while driving may
soon be banned
Though no laws currently exist
to prohibit Michigan drivers from
text messaging while behind the
wheel, a bill will soon be consid-
ered that would make it an offense.
If the bill passes, offenders would
receive a fine and two points on
their driver's licenses.

Eighteen other states have
already passed similar bans, the
most recent of which was Illinois.
Lt. Renee Bush of the Ann Arbor
Police Department said she sup-
ports the initiative. Though she
said she has not dealt with any car
accidents caused by text messag-
ing, she recognizes the potential
danger text messaging poses.
"We want people to be safe," she
said."Sowe'd prefertheyminimize
distractions, especially in a heavily

domestic area like Ann Arbor."
In July, The New York Times
reported the findings of a once-
secret National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration study, which
concluded that drivers are four
times as likely to cause a car acci-
dent if they are using a cell phone.
The study also found the likeli-
hood of a cell phone-using driver
getting into an accident is the same
assomeonewithabloodalcohollevel
See LEGISLATION, Page 7A


WEATHER yHI:79
TOMORROW LO:54

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANDAILYCOM INDEX NEWS.............2A ARTS............................ 5A
In pitch for health reform, Obama cites 'U' study Vol. CXX,No.5 SUDOKU ............................3A CLASSIFIEDS ......................6 A
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE ©2009The Michigan Daily OPINION............................4A SPORTSMONDAY...............1B
michigandaily.com


2A - Monday, September 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, September 14, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Police rule missing Yale stuident case a homicide

BROWSING BOOKFEST

Authoritien announced yesterday
chac the disappearance of Yale Univer-
sicy graduate scudent Annie Le wasche
resulc of a homicide, The Associaced
Press reported.
Police found remaina of a human
body, who they believe in Le, in che
Amintad Building at Yale University.
Le wan 24 yearn old and net to
be married yenterday to Jonathan
Widawsky, a graduate student at
Columbia Univernity
She wan last neen in the medical
renearch building on the campus of
Yale Univerity Tuenday morning.
Records show that abe swiped her
identificationeard to get into thehbuild-
ing, but none of the complex's 75 sur-
veillance cameran captured her exit.
The FBI isexamining materialsnand
bloody clothes foundastashed in ceiling
tiles in the Amistad Building.
Linda Lorimer, Yale vice president
and secretary, said that itwas "entirely
perplexing" that there was no record
of her leaving thehbuilding.

OAKLAND UNIVERSITY
STUDENTS RETURN
TO CLASS
Students at Oakland Univer-
nity returned to classes Thursday
after the school's administration
and faculty union reached a tenta-
tive agreement in the middle of the
night, ending a week-long strike,
The Oakland Pont reports.
The administration and the
union that represents the faculty,
the American Association of Uni-
versity Professors - Oakland Uni-
versity Chapter, must ratify the
agreement to make it official.
The deal features compromises
on health care, pay and academic
Professors agreed to a salary
freeze for the 2009-10 academic
year, with 1 percent raises in
2010-11 and 3 percent raises in
2011-12, according to the AAUP
website.

ENDOWMENT DOWN AT
BROWN UNIVERSITY
Brown University's endowment
lost $740 million, or 26.6 percent
of its market value, in the 12-month
period ending June 30, according
to The Brown Daily Herald.
The university's endowment is
now worth just over $2 billion.
The Associated Press reported
that the investmnent return for the
endowment dropped 23.1 percent
in the same time period.
For the end of the fiscal year, the
endowment was valued at $2.04
billion.
Brown University President
Ruth Simmons said at a faculty
meeting that the school raised an
all-time record for total cash giving
of $193.4 billion, "in spite of a hor-
rendous year otherwise," according
to The Brown Daily Herald.
- MATT AARONSON

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Rackham student Emlyn Johnson browsos throuth book-
shelves at the 7th Annual Kerrytown BookFest, held at tho
Farmers' Market in She historic Kerrytown district Sunday.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWM AN
Editor is Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-704-0508
araca@miehigosdaiy.com rmdhasisess@ynnaiteom
CONTACT INFORMATION
NewsromnofficehoursSu.-Thur. 11tan. -2 a.
News Tips news@nichigandaily.can
torretions correcrions@michigandaily.com
Leters tnthe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Phoography Departmnt photo@michigandaily.om
Arts Section avrtpage~michigandaily.omn
Editnrial Page opinion@michiandaily.com
Spnrts Sectian sports@nichigandaily.coan
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaiy.omw
Online Sales onlineads@michiganedaily.com
Finance fiance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
toartney Ratkoaiak Managiog Editor ratkoeiak@nichigandaiycoem
Jacob SniloitZ Manaein ewsEtdoe smilovitz@nichigaedaiy.com
SENIRwNsWS ETORvoS:Matrononw,Jillan emn rvr aeoen
Saolle, Kyle Swanson
.ASSuSNTsEWS EDTORS:Niwile Abwr, allry oe,n'E.mile Orlew,Stepharie
Steinberg, Eshwarhiruavkkaasu
RobertSave Editoria aeEditor soaveynichigandaiy.com
ASSOCInATEEIORIALAGEuuEDIORSEmiyBrtono,Bran lery, ahelvan Gider
Andy Reid Managing Sports ditor reid@michigaedaily.on
SEORSPuORToSEDORS:iolesiruerrbach, Mikr Eisensein, Iata, Ruth
uSSISTNTuSRTSr DsORnS:MarkBaroa Charrel Jrnnings, uGjoJunca,yan
Karje,Chris Mearo,oRyanodges
David Watick Managing ArtsaEditor wateick@mihgandailycon
SENIOR ARsTSDITO~RJaeockr,aBrandon Comradia, Whitnae Pw
ASSISTNRu'Su DIOR:oshuaayr, Cary larec~ki, Andrw Lapin, David Ria
Zadhary Meisner and photo@michigandailycom
tlifReeder MtntgingrhototEdior
SENIOR POO EIO RS:sSaidlalah, ChanlVo absb~rgorig
ASSISTNT PT eOuEIORaS: aColin,Chris Doak~i, SamaWolson
Angela thihland design@nichigaedailycoen
Maureen Styth Maoagion esignEditors
Jessita Vosgerchian MagaietEditoroercin~ihigadiy.con
KthedineMitchell topytChief nitchallichigandailyvon
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielnozwiakSates Maager
MAoRETNGMuNAuEnRMchelrotenboe
Ryan Basinski tltaifiedManagr
CLuSSFEDoASSSTsNTuMANR:KalLaata
Ben English ProductiosMantger
Allison Santacres Larout Maeager
Vivian LeerFinaoce Mtntger
Britany MoralestCirulatioonManager
Brad WleyProectCoordinatoe
The Michian Daily (ISSutN -97t ulrishedMonay trouh iayuivtngthellnd inr
tems bystdetsatheUniversityuo ichi~gan.One cp snivalblreenof chrge toall reaier.
Addiinalrwop ieepkeiup at tDails oficetfor $.sconsfhrttlltsem,tating in
Setember va U.S.mi5 r $.Wnenr:t tenrmJvaurthoughprl)it$15yerlo~ng (eptember
trugvhApril is $195.lUnversity affiltes re subect taredced ssripionrat. On-campus
subcrpons fr falhemae$35. Subsciptin tb~e prepaid.TheMichign Daly iaaeereof
TheAsoiated Pesand heAsociatdCllete Pres.

CRIME NOTES
Drunk jumps on Petty items
football field taken, returned

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Women faculty Maize Mirchi
show art pieces auditions

WHERE: Michigan Stadium
WHEN: Saturday around 7:30
p.m.
WHAT: An intoxicated male
subject was arrested after he
jumped onto the football field at
the end of the game, University
Police reported. He wan arrest-
ed and will appear in court..

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday around 10:45
WHAT: A known larceny sub-
ject stole a note pad, two packs
of gum and a deck of playing
cards from the second floor gift
shop, University Polite reported.
Hospital security items contact-
ed him and recovered the items.

Man in lab coat Subject urinates
steals muffins on golf course

WHAT: The Faculty
Women's Club will put their
artwork of various styles and
media on exhibition.
WHO: University Unins
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Coin-
mosns, 2nd floor Wall Gallery
AMI mass
meeting
WHAT: The American
Movement for Israel is
hosting a mass meeting for
freshman to learn about the
organization and how to
get involved in pro-Israel
activities. Free pizza will be
nerved.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hillel

WHAT: The University's
South Asian a cappella
group will perform a medley
of Bollywood and Western
music before holding audi-
tions to join the group.
WHO: Maize Mirchi
WHEN: Tonight at 0:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
Gender explorers
WHAT: A support group for
trangender and transsexual
students. The meeting pro-
vides a safe space for open
discussion.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from 5 p.m.
t100p.m.'
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 3200
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1Continuous exposure to
hairspray activated 07-year-
old Elyse Tirico's alcohol-
monitoring anklet bracelet, the
dailynewsncom reported. Tini-
en was charged with DUI man-
slaughterand DUI with serious
bodily injury. The judge said he
would not revoke her pre-trial
release because the devise was
falsely triggered.
2 The No. 7 Michigan
women's volleyball team
is currently undefeated
with a 10-0 record. Their next
game is thin Friday against
Marquette.
FOR MORE. SEE SPORTS MONDAY.
PAGElB
3 The Michigan Court of
Appeals ruled that a Troy
ordinance permitting
police to give breath tests to
minors suspected of drinking
is unconstitutional, the Detroit
Free Press reported.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday around 9 a.m.
WHAT: Aman insa white lab
coat has been stealingecoffee and
muffins from the second floor
cafeteriasover a two-week peri-
od, University Police reported.
He was described as middle-
aged and tall with a bald spot.

WHERE: University Golf
Course
WHEN: Saturday around 1:45
p.m.
WHAT: A male subject was
issued a ticket for urinating
on the University Golf Course
during a football tailgate, Uni-
versity Police reported.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


4

4

4

4

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 14, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, Sephember 14, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
NEW YORK
Election trouble
brewing for House
Democrats in 2010
Despite sweeping Democratic
successes in the past two national
elections, continuing job losses
and President Barack Obama's
slipping support could lead to
double-digit losses for the party
in next year's congressional races
and may even threaten their
House control.
Fifty-four new Democrats were
swept into the House in 2006 and
2008, helping the party claim a
decisive majority as voters soured
on a Republican president and
embraced Obama's message of
hope and change. Many of the new
Democrats are in districts carried
by Republican John McCaininlast
year's presidential contest; others
are in traditional swing districts
that have proved tough for either
party to hold.
From New Hampshire to
Nevada, House Democrats also
will be forced to defend votes on
Obama's $787 billion economic
recovery package and on energy
legislation viewed by many as a job
killer in an already weak economy.
WASHINGTON
Obama says he's
expecting 'a good
health care bill'
President Barack Obama saidhe
is confident Congress will pass "a
good health care bill," as months
of rancor over reforming the na-
tion's health care system seemed
to be easing yesterday, with the
White House playing down an
immediate role for a government
insurance option.
At the same time, Obama was
critical of Republican opponents
who he said were trying to block
an overhaul of the nation's heath
care system for political gain.
"I believe that we will have
enough votes to pass not just any
health care bill, but a good health
care bill that helps the American
people, reduces costs, actually over
the long-term controls our deficit.
t'm confident that we've got that,"
Obama said in an interview broad-
cast Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes.
"There are those in the Republican
party who think the best thing to
do is just to kill reform. That that
will be good politics."
MOUNT PLEASANT, Mich.
MissingMich.boy
found at Cedar Point
A missing Michigan boy has
been found safe at an amusement
park in Ohio.
The Midland Daily News and
Bay City Times report that FBI
agents found 11-year-old Brendan
M. Chobod at Cedar Point in San-
dusky, Ohio, late Saturday.
Authorities were holding a
21-year-old man described as the
boy's former baby sitter Sunday.
He was being held on a charge of
violating bond as he awaited sen-

tencing on Michigan drug charg-
es. Prosecutors were considering
additional charges.
Michigan authorities issued an
Amber Alert for Chobod after he
disappeared on Friday.
Authorities were concerned
about the boy because he is men-
tally disabled and left his home
without his asthma medications.
Police say he appears to be in
good health.
JERUSALEM
Netanyahu says US
and Israel differ on
peacemaking plans
Israeli Prime Minister Benja-
min Netanyahu, speaking before a
keymeetingwiththeWhiteHouse
Mideast envoy, said yesterday that
differences remain with the U.S.
over resuming peacemaking with
the Palestinians.
Netanyahu delivered the
assessment before flying to Cairo
for talks with Egypt's president, a
main mediator in efforts to restart
peace talks, and ahead of a meet-
ing with George Mitchell, the U.S.
envoy, later this week.
The Obama administration,
with Mitchell as the point man,
has been pressingIsrael to declare
a halt to construction in its West
Bank settlements. Palestinians
claim the West Bank as part of
their future state and say they will
not resume peace talks without a
settlement freeze.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama: Shooting of anti-abortion activist 'deplorable'

Pouilon, 63, killed
while protesting
across from Owosso
High School
OWOSSO, Mich. (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama yesterday
condemned the killing of an anti-
abortion activist in Michigan as
activists and others gathered for
vigil near the site where he was
fatally shot.
REC FACILITIES
From Page 1A
room in the weight rooms at the
CCRB," he said. "It's a pretty diffi-
cult environment to work out in."
Canning didn't argue with such
complaints, saying he doesn't
"think what we have is good
enough for our student body."
A University-appointed task
force found plenty of room for

Obama called last week's shoot-
ing of James Pouillon "deplorable"
in a two-sentence statement.
"Whichever side of a public
debate you're on, violence is never
the right answer," Obama said in
the statement.
Police say Pouillon, 63, was killed
Friday morning while protesting
across the street from a high school
in Owosso, about 70 miles north-
west of Detroit. Pouillon was in his
usual spot holding a sign that pic-
tured a chubby-cheeked baby with
the word "LIFE" on one side and an
improvement in a 90-page report
released last February.
Cleanliness was the chief con-
cern listed among University stu-
dents, faculty and staff, and was
discussed specifically in the report..
The report also called for "all facil-
ities (to) be upgraded to conditions
that are closer to a'health club' atmo-
sphere and less like a high school
gymnasium and weight room."
An expansion of the CCRB's bas-
ketball and swimming facilities, as

image of an aborted fetus with the
word "ABORTION" on the other.
Authorities allege Harlan Drake,
33, of Owosso pulled up to Pouillon
in a truck and opened fire. Prosecu-
tors say Pouillon's methods irritat-
ed Drake, particularly when used
near the high school. Drake also is
accused of killing a local business
owner earlier that day.
Multicolored flowers, balloons
and candles during yesterday's
vigil marked the spot where Pouil-
lon was shot. More than 200 people
attended the vigil, standing in a cir-
well as additional space for weight
lifting and cardiovascular activi-
ties were also recommended.
Canning expressed doubt that
any renovations would be made in
the near future, but would not rule
anything out.
"The report is still being con-
sidered," Canning said. "There are
some pretty detailed items,butthey
are not fixed plans. It is absolutely
something that is being looked at
and addressed."

cle as many carried the same sort of tests - often staged outside the
graphic signs he used. school, library, at car dealerships
The retired autoworker was a and even football games for sever-
well-known and polarizing per- al years - rubbed some residents
sonality in Owosso, a town of the wrong way and led to frequent
about 15,000 residents. His pro- court battles.
WANT TO JOIN DAILY NEWS?
COME TO OUR MASS MEETING.
Come to the Daily at 420 Maynard Street
8 p.m. tonight.



NSA is Coming to Your Campus


At the National Security Agency (NSA), you will work on the most interesting
and challenging projects that you can't do anywhere else. Your solutions
can play a major role in protecting the security of the Nation.
To learn more about how you can contribute, visit NSA on your campus
and explore our exciting career opportunities and incredible benefits
package, including flexible work schedules and competitive pay.
Engineering Career Fair: September 22, 10a.m. -4 p.m.
College of Engineering
1226 EECS Bldg., 1301 Beal A
Interview Sessions: September 23, Duderstadt Center r
Interview Rooms 13 and 14
Please bring your resume and an unofficial transcript.
if you cannot attend, please apply online.
Explore the following career opportunities:

s: ,
.<s
7
S r c'
t, , {
;,
rv ,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Computer/Electrical Engineering
Computer Science
Information Assurance
Mathematics
Foreign Language
Intelligence Analysis
Cryptanalysis
Signals Analysis
Business Management
Finance & Accounting

" Internships
* Co-op
* Scholarships
For more information about NSA and a complete list
of our career opportunities, visit our Web site.
U.S. citizenship is required for all applicants. NSA is an equal
opportunity employer and abides by applicable laws and regulations.

FSp,
www.NSA.gi

ECUR/
SATES 4V
v/Careers


New Michigan/USA Resident?
We help new residents file taxes.


free tax planning consultation
Renaissance Financial Grow
320 N. Main, #104, Ann Arbor . ph. 734-994-1288
www.refinancial.com

1
F.=3 Come hear
Energy Fest Keynote
Speaker: Bill Weih
Vice-President and Co-Chair of the Board
at Climate Savers Computing Initiative and
Green Energy Czar at Google
Tuesday, Sept 15,4 PM
Dana Bldg. Room 1040

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandally.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



4A - Monday, September 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

7hLe Mich igan+ ai[g


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

4

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A healthy solution
Congress must pass Obama's health care reform plan
Forty-six million - that's the number of Americans who are
without health insurance. That number includes men and
women, children and students, low-income families and
middle-class workers between jobs, healthy individuals and those in
need of medical care. With the current health care debate stalled by
a steady current of misinformation and alarmism, President Barack
Obama's speech to Congress on Wednesday night was intended to be
a rallying cry for the supporters of reform to come together and pass
a bill. While there are many reforms that should be present in an
ideal bill, it is the obligation of Congress to pass a health care reform
bill that establishes a public health care option for all those Ameri-
cans who have been losing out in the current system for decades.

I'm really happy for you, I'm gonna let you finish, but
Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time."
- Hip-hop artist Kanye West, after taking the microphone from Best Female Video winner
Taylor Swift during her acceptance speechat last night's Video Music Awards ceremony.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
(0 y eegethfeting
'ls ah aen
Obama seches, itHi
-He's watclng the words Don' thate me, hatet
ye. owest tennis match yes teleprom s
Prblmsw & in-n clc
a e,'' .- -_ __

4

4

While Congress has been debating a
comprehensive health care reform bill for
weeks, little progress has been made since
conservative protest movements deeply
opposed to health care reform hijacked
the debate. These protests - coupled with
declarations from uninformed, and politi-
cally motivated right-wing leaders - have
succeeded in spreading outright lies about
the proposed bill. These would include for-
mer Republican vice presidential candidate
Sarah Palin's infamous warningthatthebill
would establish "death panels" for senior
citizens. Obama's speech on Wednesday
was an attempt to clear up these allegations
and urge Congress to get back to the task
at hand - assuring that all Americans have
access to affordable health care.
The best way to do that is the public
option. Creatingagovernment alternative to
the expensive, monopolistic private insur-
ance companies is fundamentally necessary
for millions of Americans who can't afford
coverage. As Obama noted in his speech, in
much of the country there are only a few
insurance companies to choose from. Con-
servatives - who claim that competition in
the market is best - must recognize that for
many Americans, there is no competition
in the health care market, leading to pric-
es that are unaffordable and plans that are
incomplete. The public option would inject
more competition into the market, improv-
ing the quality of available plans.

Opponents claim that private sector
insurance plans won't be able to compete
with the government, turning health care
into an entirely government run system.
But a study by the Congressional Budget
Office found that only about 5 percent
of Americans would buy into the public
option. What's more, the private sector
competes with the government in a num-
ber of different areas - including schools
like this one and the mail system - with-
out any harm being done to the private
sector.
Despite worries that taxes will need to
increase to pay for such a plan, Obama's
bill would be completely funded by the
plan's premiums. If the costs outweigh the
revenue, then other parts of the budget
would be trimmed to make up for any rev-
enue shortcomings. And the $900 billion
cost of the bill is hardly unthinkable when
compared with other government expen-
ditures like the more than $800 billion
already spent on the war in Iraq..
An ideal health care reform bill must
also include regulations on the insurance
industry that curtail unfair practices like
dropping people from their plans once
they get sick or placing caps on the amount
of care that they can actually receive. But
the most important component of health
care reform is a public option to foster
competition and make health insurance
much more affordable for all.

any engineering students
recently received the
same e-mail I did about
a research study on
improving opera-
tors of Unmanned
Aerial Vehicles. My
reaction was one of .
both curiosity and
disappointment"
that the University
is participating in r
a study designed to
increase the effec- BEN
tiveness of military CALECA
technology.
UAVs are a weap-
on unlike any other - pilots at home
in the U.S. can engage and kill people
in real time from their control panels
and can view the damage via recon-
naissance cameras on board. But the
complex psychological effects of such
a weapons system are still not fully
understood for either their operators,
military commanders or the public.
These effects need to be fully exam-
ined.
one of the most powerful exam-
ples of military technology employed
against the Taliban in Afghanistan is
the relatively small Predator drones
flying over ground forces, the latest
in a long line of UAVs employed in
war. What was once a device to pas-
sively provide tactical information
to commanders has become a system
that can provide death on demand
for commanders. These unmanned
planes can now deliver guided mis-
siles at suspected enemies and are
patrolled for hours on end by pilots
in the safety of the U.S. But this new
ability to point, click and destroy
from half a world away still isn't fully
understood.
Predator drones are also different
in that pilots watch their strikes in
graphic detail through the drones'
powerful cameras and then return to
their normal lives at home. The tran-
sition is no longer one of days, weeks,

or months. This is not the environ- struck down, will war become an
ment where soldiers share experienc- easier option? Aerospace companies
es as a group. The stress of a pilot on are already working on the next gen-
duty with what is essentially front- eration of drone attack craft that can
line work can have adverse effects avoid detection entirely. Where is the
on his family and friends who often incentive to not make a strike against
can't relate to his experiences or pro- a potential enemy from the air when
vide solace. There have already been they lack any means of directly
reports of abnormally high stress
among Predator pilots, even though
they are furthest from the front lines.
It is psychologically harmful even Remotely-operated
though pilots are now away from
danger. weaponry has
The other issues that affect a w ,
Predator drone operator are similar hidden costs.
to those faced by any military pilot.
As sensor equipment, weapons and
missions become more advanced, the
ever increasing complexity of aerial returning the favor? And how heav-
warfare can lead to asensory overload ily can we rely on a select number of
of the operators just as in manned pilots to operate, drones day in and
aircraft. With Predator drones able day out, actively attacking anything
to patrol for hours and hours on end, they're ordered to?
alert monitoring is required at all The questions regarding the psy-
times and the equipment on a drone chological effects on Predator pilots
can inundate its user with informa- are not resolved, and there is certain-
tion. ly a need to better understand what
During the war in Iraq, a close unmanned remote combat means for
air-support aircraft meant to attack people.
enemies threatening friendly ground By removing pilots from physical
forces accidentally attacked a British danger, are we adding a psychologi-
army convoy repeatedly. The conclu- cal burden that could lead to fatal
sions of the investigation were that mistakes on the other side of the
"cognitive and physical task over- world? Is the graphic nature of the
load" were part of a number of factors scenes they witness through a com-
leading to the mistakes in identify- puter screen something that can be
ing the attacked British vehicles the 'shrugged off on the commute home
planes attacked. It is very possible to family and friends?
that drone operators that aren't fully TheUniversity should nothelp fur-
focused could make a mistake that ther research on weapons technology
could cause a mission to fail or kill that we don't even fully understand
others by accident. Certainly the yet. The nature of war is already
risks increase further if drone opera- changing with the increased preva-
tors are experiencing abnormal levels lence of such weapons, and with
of stress from their work. these changes, people need to reflect
The other factor that very well can on both the advantages and the pit-
be a psychological effect of drone use falls of remotely-operated weaponry.
in wars abroad is a loss of percep-
tion about the cost of war. With our
pilots physically safe from harm and - Ben Caleca can be reached
enemies an order away from being at calecab@umich.edu.

4

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Campus-wide ban is not the Choice to ban smoking

4

problem at stake
TO THE DAILY:
While I respect Mr. Panduranga's thoughts
and his courage to take a stand against the Uni-
versity's plan to ban the smoking of cigarettes
on campus, I find his column extremely ludi-
crous (Keep smoking on campus, 09/10/2009).
Sure, Panduranga and many smokers may find
the ban annoying, but smoking has become a
huge problem in terms of health care for our
country.
Decreasing the places that individuals can
smoke decreases smokers. It happened when
New York City enacted a ban on smoking in
indoor public places and it will undoubtedly
happen at the University. When smokers quit,
the health problems associated with smoking
decrease dramatically. The ban is just one way
that the University is contributing to increasing
the quality of health in America nationwide.
Smoking isn't the only problem that is affect-
ing the wide range of health problems in our
country, but comparing the effects of smoking
to the effects of overeating is like comparing
apples to oranges. Not everyone that overeats
is going to get obese - there are some people
that need to consume higher amounts of fat and
calories than others. This isn't to say that every
smoker is going to die of lung cancer, but the
chances of a smoker acquiring a health prob-
lem are far, far greater than the overeater. Also,
note that the University has nutritional infor-
mation in all dining halls so that students are
influenced to make healthy choices.
Smokers and those against the ban should
stop battling the University and instead use this
energy to find a way to quit the gross habit.
Lindsay Canvasser
LSA senior

should have included more
student voices
TO THE DAILY:
My thanks to Harsha Panduranga for offer-
ing welcome dissent toward the University's
proposed smoke-free campus (Keep smoking
on campus, 09/10/2009). Although I do not
agree with all of his arguments, I must heartily
second the idea that personal choice forms an
important and rather neglected aspect of this
discussion.
As a non-smoker, I am admittedly annoyed
by breathing secondhand smoke. But smoking
remains a legal activity and a choice, and I feel
that freedom of choice is much more important
than my own personal convenience will ever
be. Besides, the choice is twofold: smokers can
choose to smoke and I can simply walk else-
where.
One point not mentioned by Mr. Panduran-
ga which deserves attention is that, so far as I
am aware, the University did little to consult
with students until after the decision to
eliminate smoking on campus was already
reached. The University's website is patently
unhelpful. A committee whose stated aims
include "seeking input from students, staff,
and faculty through dialogue and surveys"
does not appear concerned with dialogue over
the plan itself but only with easing its imple-
mentation.
I, for one, would have wished for open, hon-
est debate of this policy before any action was
taken.
My thanks again to Mr. Panduranga for his
column.
Ethan Menchinger
Rackham graduate student

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers to be columnists
during the fall semester. Columnists write 750 words
on a topic of their choice every other week.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
PATRICK ZABAWA I

Consider the alternatives

4

Before coming to the University
exactly four years ago, one of my big-
gest fears was that I would become a
liberal. Growing up in a family where
get-togethers with relatives were
more like political action committee
meetings on how to get conservatives
into power, I knew liberals were the
enemy. And my new college was the
epicenter of liberal thought in Michi-
gan. When I arrived, fearful that my
political enemies were all around me,
I took as many jibes at the school's
liberal institutions as I could. While
I never became heavily involved with
any political group on campus, I did
go as far as to start the Facebook.com
group "The Michigan Daily Is Liberal
Propaganda". That group never really
took off.
Eventually, my fears were realized.
I did experience a political change of
heart at the University, but my shift
in political beliefs wasn't toward lib-
eralism. Instead, I came to embrace
libertarianism, a philosophy I hadn't
heard of during my years at home.
And having now graduated from col-
lege and entered the "real world,"
this philosophy means more to me
now than it ever did.
I first made the move toward lib-
ertarianism - a philosophy of total
freedom from government interven-
tion, both socially and economically
- after opening my ears to other
political philosophies. At the Uni-
versity, I let my views be challenged
by those around me. I finally came to
realize that no one, not even the gov-

ernment, knows what's best for me
except me. And while I've continued
to let different arguments challenge
this idea, I now have only stronger
reasons for thinkingthat government
interference is bad for individuals.
Throughout my college career, I
was going through another self-dis-
covery, one that wasn't at all politi-
cal - I was wondering how to live my
life being gay. (This was, of course,
more difficult when I was a conser-
vative.) After four years, I've finally
embraced my sexuality and am ready
to fight for the government to recog-
nize gay marriage as equal to hetero-
sexual marriage.
The funny thing is, I shouldn't
have to fight for gay rights. Hundreds
of companies already recognize their
gay employees' partners and extend
benefits to them, according to the
Human Rights Campaign. My own
company has apolicy against discrim-
ination based on sexual orientation.
They've all embraced gay relation-
ships, so what's left to change?
I have to fight because the govern-
ment has monopolized the benefits of
marriage. What began as a widely-
considered good for individuals has
now become a law that holds gay
people back. The federal govern-
ment won't recognize gay marriage.
It controls Social Security, the big-
gest pension program in the country,
and it only gives survivor benefits to
spouses. It gives special hospital visi-
tation rights to spouses. Child cus-
tody is usually split between married

couples. And the listgoes on. Sowhile
businesses and many religions have
moved to recognize gay relationships,
government has become the battle-
ground through which both sides can
prevent the other from gaining the
upper hand. If government had never 4
gotten involved in the first place,
these hurtful policies would never
have been implemented.
As many groups continue to cam-
paign to increase the power of gov-
ernment for so-called good reasons,
the same opportunities for destruc-
tive-battlegrounds are being created.
If health care becomes entirely gov-
ernment-run and cures for diseases
are developed from embryonic stem
cell research, conservatives and lib-
erals will argue over whether govern-
ment health care plans should cover
these cures and one side's views will
be oppressed.
But if health care is left to the pri-
vate sector - as the institution of
marriage should have been - individ-
uals would be free to choose whether
or not to buy plans that cover such
cures. 4
As new students begin their first
semester at the University, I hope
that like me, they will encounter new
beliefs. And I hope that these new
beliefs will lead them to realize that
no one knows what's best for any
individual, and that the best govern-
ment policy is one that leaves every-
one alone.
Patrick Zabawa is a University alum.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters
are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of
the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

I,


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 14, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, Septemher 14, 2009 - 5A

Vanilla'Extract'

'CSI Modern Television'

Lacking anger, Mike Judge's
latest can't match the
classic 'Office Space'
By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
Thanks to his TV series "King of the Hill" and the
cult classic film "Office Space," which he wrote and
directed, Mike Judge has been the
secret liaison between Hollywood
and the blue-collar working world
for more than a decade. No one else EAIhd
in the movie business can showcase
Joe Sixpack's frustration toward At Quality 16
the way the world works like Judge. and Showcase
That's why many rejoiced when Miramax
it was revealed that, after a brief
foray into dystopian satire with
"Idiocracy," he would return to the workplace with
"Extract."
It should have been expected that "Extract" wasn't
going to touch the genius of "Office Space," but there
was still reason to hope. The film features a stellar
cast headlined by "Arrested Development" star Jason
Bateman, whose straight-faced anxiety seems per-
fectly suited for Judge's world. And the plot mixes
familiar workday drudgery with a crime tale - Mila
Kunis ("Forgetting Sarah Marshall") plays a pro-
miscuous con artist. There's also an element of the
surreal: The story is set in motion when a worker in
Bateman's vanilla extract factory loses a testicle in a
freak accident.
There's also a point where Bateman hires a gigolo to
seduce his wife (Kristen Wiig, "Saturday Night Live")
so that he doesn't have to feel guilty about having an
.ffir,. t m:t-in - fl.: k ds:- s mi:-m d.,,.1 it wn1d

seem Judge has finally found his element again.
But all these disparate ingredients never come
together. "Extract" lacks both the satirical bite and
naked ambition of "Office Space" - a film that set out
to destroy, not merely mock, the people and compa-
nies that profit from the misery of cubicle dwellers.
The film was so effective because it was so angry.
"Extract" lacks that essential anger.
Part of the problem may be that Judge asks the
audience to sympathize with the boss instead of the
employees. Yes, Bateman's Joel is apparently the
world's least sadistic boss, and his workers are so stu-
pid they need "Life for Dummies" books. But he still
lives in a nice house with a pool, he gets to entertain
the idea of retiring young when a larger company
offers a buyout and he gives a speech that makes
it clear he's truly passionate about manufacturing
vanilla extract. So despite all his complaints, he must
still enjoy his job.
There are moments when the movie does get riled
up in a Lumbergh-like manner over some of its char-
acters, and those are the moments when "Extract"
truly shines. David Koechner ("Snakes on a Plane")
portrays the overly friendly neighbor from Hell, and
comes closest to the classic Judge flavor. Every time
he says, "Oh, Joel, one more thing..." the audience can
feel Judge's hatred toward annoying neighbors every-
where. The factory workers all have their moments,
Jason Bateman meets
God's Cock.
especially the overly pierced forklift driver (T.J.
Miller, "The Goods"), who plays in a Goth-metal band
called God's Cock and tells everyone to "bring some
chicks" to his shows.
The creativity behind these characters is almost
enough to make up for Ben Affleck's hippie bar-
tender character who (of course) acts as Bateman's
spiritual adviser and drug pusher. The lame, forced
kookiness of his character doesn't do anything for
the story, and by the time he accidentally slips the
straight-laced Bateman a horse tranquilizer, he
seems to be nothing more than the product of rare
laziness from Judge.
The best satire works because the author has a
desire to bring about change, which is why "Office
Space" worked so well and why the very hit-or-miss
"Idiocracy" occasionally made contact. "Extract"
doesn't have anything to be angry about, which is why
the film never rises above the somewhat-amusing
level. Hopefully for his next film, Judge brings back
his trademark blue-collar bite.

There are three types of
television show in this
world: crime and/or medi-
cal dramas, dating reality shows,
and shows that get canceled. We
live in a world
with abajillion-
ty-twelve "CSI"
shows, abrand'
new "NCIS"
coming, shows*
like "The Shield"
and "Dark Blue" JANE
for everyone's
bad-cop fix, a BLOCK
vast surplus of
"Law and Order" offshoots, enough
televisedbloody surgery to make
even a chief of medicine squeamish
and enough hot tub lovin' to melt
the polar ice caps. And then there's
everything else.
People have historicallybeen
reluctant to watch some of televi-
sion's most original programming.
The ever-cult-classic "Arrested
Development" was practically the
only show of its kind in regard to
its absurd storylines and humor.
But not enough people watched
the Emmy-winner to save it from
unjust cancellation.
Then there are shows that don't
even get a full firstseason, like
"Firefly." From creator Joss Whe-
don (mastermind behind "Dr. Hor-
rible's Sing-Along Blog" and "Buffy
the Vampire Slayer"), "Firefly" told
the story of a group of cowboy-
esque space rogues roaming a
relatively newly colonized galaxy
in the year 2517. They run from the
dastardly alliance while smuggling
and harboringmysterious fugi-
tives. Yeah, it sounds absolutely
fucking weird, but it was absolutely
scintillating - at least during its
14-episode existence. People just
hear something like "cowboy sci-fi"
and think it's so absurd that it can't
be good. But it was great. And most
people never gave themselves the
chance to know.
Rejecting a show based on
premise alone is never a good
idea. A great writing team can
turn any idea into a supremely
entertaining show. The whole
point of new shows ought to be

that the
camebE
some ri
ing som
experie
because
Musica
Night' b
Center,
"I won'
didn't 1i
of these
many v
these t
instead
watcht
like it.Z
convinc
is dead.
Fortt
some or
making
mention
of popu
high sc
its posi
new she
est vent
Isla
documE
people
lives to
replace
billiona
partner
starting
season1
wouldr
thing t
makes i
most en
actually
"Dol
ple of n
premisE
the clos
is "Step
vaguely
creativE

y aren't like anything that vated by the fact that they're doing
efore them. Yet I've heard somethingnew. A crime drama
diculous excuses for avoid- canbe entertaining; it can even
ething based on previous sometimesbe well done. But no
nces: "I won't watch 'Glee' matter whattwistyou put on it, I
e I didn't like 'High School won't letyou get away with calling
l,' "I won't watch 'Sports it "original."
because I don'tlike 'Sports- I amhopingnthat in a cruel-for-
' or, most unreasonably, them, great-for-me twist of fate,
t watch 'Lost' because I the onslaught of doctors, cops and
ike 'Gilligan's Island."'None desperate singles will eventually
comparisons are fair, yet assure its own destruction - or at
iewers are content to make least reach a plateau. Here's the
wo-second assumptions way I see it: It mustbe the same
of taking an hour to simply people watching all of these shows.
he show once and see if they I can't imagine someone saying,
The crime drama plague is "You know, 'CSI' and 'CSI: Miami'
ing people that originality are great but that 'CSI: NY' is an
utter piece of crap." Unfortunately,
unately, in recentyears, that means there are probably
riginal premises havebeen many people out there watching
a comeback. The afore- upwards of seven or eight crime
ned "Glee," the satirical tale dramas on a regularbasis. But the
larity as viewed through a quantity's the thing wherein we'll
hool show choir, is enjoying catch the conscience of the viewing
tion as FOX's most-hyped public.
ow. And Joss Whedon's lat- If more crime dramas keep pre-
ure "Dollhouse," which miering at the current rate, people
will eventually run out of free time.
There are only so many hours of
primetime television a week, and
Lost' is not once there are acouple crime dra-
mas in each slot, any new ones will
"Gilligan's steal the ratings of anotheruntil,
in a morass of mutually assured
Lnd, ndam m it. destruction, they all explode! Or,
more realistically, producers will
realize it's not profitable to keep
making them.
ents a secret facility where But there is an easier, more real-
give up five years of their istic and less "War Games"-esque
have their personalities way to quell the expansion of the
d and bodies rented out to ever-growingblob of unoriginal
ire clients seekingromantic programming: Watch something
s or even assassins, willbe different. I don't care if you didn't
g its second season soon - a like "Stargate: Atlantis." You should
that most people suspected still watch "Eureka." Sure, they
never come. It's not like any- both air on Syfy (the new name of
hat's comebefore it, and that the old Sci-Fi Channel), but that
t all the more fantastic. But doesn't mean they're the same, and
scouragingly, people must "Eureka" is flippingbrilliant.
y be watching it. Original, high-quality television
lhouse" is the perfect exam- isbeing murdered, and we need to
ew television at its best. The take actionbefore they make a new
e is completelyoriginal - "CSI" about it.

est thing we've seen so far
'ford Wives," and that's only
'similar. The writers are
e and the actors are moti-

Block is working ona pilot for
"40 Rock." Tell him how original
he is at jamblock@umich.edu.

You can never have too much Viagra.


Dreams. Realities.
If you want to make an impact beyond the city, the
country or even the industry where you'll work,
meet us. We'll tell you why - in a company where
opportunity never sleeps - your aspirations will
be exceeded. oncampus.cItI.com
PLEASE JOIN US FOR CITI'S INSTITUTIONAL
CLIENTS GROUP PRESENTATION
DATE: MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14TH, 2009
WHEN: 6:30PM - 8:00PM
WHERE: ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS -
COLLOQUIUM
SPEAKER: STEVE WAGMAN
Managing Director,
Capital Markets Origination
BUSINESSES IN ATTENDANCE:
- Capital Markets Origination
- Investment Banking
- Public Finance
" Sales, Trading & Quantitative Analysis
TARGET AUDIENCE:
Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors
Citi never sleeps'
cti

-) 'i CC igiup I' n'. 'is n 11 qiial pou y y M F DN


6A- Monday, September 14, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

I

CHEAP AVAIL PARKING at
DPHIE. $200/semester. 216-469-8936.
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

A.
REALTY
Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
seC o PZ '0 A uW e


616 Church Street
aUtomoive 734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
030
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
1993 FORD ESCORT 53,000 miles bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
Great back to School Transportation cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
LEASE TO OWN or Buy here pay gotiable and we'll help find a room-
here. 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
1998 OLDS INTRIGUE GL power http://www.varsitymanagement.com
windows, locks, tilt, am/fm LEASE
TO OWN or Buy here pay here. AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com INES! Your attention please!
2000 CHEVY CAVALIER 2 door Campus Management, Inc. invites you
Great transportation LEASE TO to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
OWN or Buy here pay here. 810-229- local website for the best selection of
9750 www.ctmas.com apartments and houses. We specialize
21000 FORD EXPLORER XLT 4x4 in houses and apartments very close to
Very clean Only 56,000 miles 400x central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
Guarauteed Approval Only $899.00 apts. and smaller available too! All are
Down (with approved credit) attractively priced, most include park-
810-225-975 ( ww.rvecmasing, many are furnished and some in-
810-225-9750 www. etmascom clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
2002 CHEVROLET TRAIL Blazer schedule a personal showing with our
LTZ 4x4 Black5Beauty 100% Guaran- rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
teed Approval Only $899.00 Down CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
(with approved credit) 810-225-9750 Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC ment (734) 668-1100 or
CARS5-9750K ttp://www.varsitymanagement.com
810-22595 ________________
100% Guaranteed Approval DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
LEASE TO OWN or Buy here pay shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
here. School and Hospital. One mile to down-
town. Wsher/dryer in unit, $1000/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
for rent
DRASTIC PRICE REDUCTION
$2200/mo for six br, 2 bath, furmished
house. Rms avail w/ whole house privi-
leges, $350-$450. LR, DR, kitch, cen-
tral air, carpeting, on-site parking.
Near business school. 926 Packard. No
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !! Pets. 248-227-9210.
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to DUPLEX APARTMENT FOR Rent -
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010. Single bedroom apartment on quiet resi-
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free dential street in Burns Park area. In-
Parking. 734.663.1370. eludes ceramic bath, full kitchen, laun-
nancylat@umich.edu dry and off-street parking. $600 per
www.nancylat.com month. Call 734-769-2855.

FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
Four great campus locations. 1- & 2-bed-
apartments and studios. Great locations,
well maintained, responsive mgmt.,
free internet & other amenities.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

4he1iiian Dailyj
P ESENT S THE
Online CMasifiied
Rental Mapy
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
http://www.bizzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon tciserv.net
help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, AGE 18+ OK. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply a
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, conditions apply, no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477,
http://www.workforstudents.com
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
17 6
4 7
9141 2
251 7
NEED A JOB? My garden needs to be
put to bed for the winter. Trimming &
painting. Must have experience. If you
are confident, reliable and like to work
fax resume to 734-663-7553.
NOW ACCEPTING
Applications
for Chef, Hostess, Bartender and
Waitress positions.
Apply at playhouse
#1lin Adult Fun
13201 Middlebelt Road
Between Northline and Eureka
Roulus, Mi 48174
734-941-3144
NURSING/GRAD STUDENTS FOR
home-based personal care. Part time, 2
hrsday. Pay neg. Cll 734-904-3274
or trusoford eaolcom

STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TENANT COUNSELOR WANTED.
Part time, 8-12 hr/wk, $12/hr, advise
tenants of basic rights and information.
Send resumes to psher@Isscm.org
095
AFTER SCHOOL CHILD care
3:45-6:30 Mon.-Thur. Pick up 8 YR.
old from school; Drive to piano/swim
classes; Homework, supervision.
Contact Eve at losman@umich.edu or
734-327-0659.

AFTERSCHOOL BABYSITTER
NEEDED for a 7 year old boy and a 3
year old girl. Help needed in picking
them up from school and engaging
them in activities after school. Please
contact Sonali at sonali.jv@gmail.com
or at (734) 730-6390.
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
LOOKING FOR NANNY
Executive couple seeks "Marry Pop-
pins" to care for children in our home.
3 boys, 1 girl. Ages 7-13. Live out posi-
tion requires, travel between AA &
Birmingham. Also willing to travel
with family as req. Occasionally stay at
residence while parents are away. Must
be dedicated to professional level of
service. Must be a college or graduate
student of U of M Ann Arbor. Pre-
ferred degree in Education. Work 5
days a week as follows:
Mon-Thurs 3-1Opm, Fri 4-1 1pm.
Occasionally weekends as req. Able to
start October 15th. Pay doe, $15-20/hr.
Benefits negotiable. Req to pass back-
ground check. Send resume to
sdodson dtbdg.comn
MOTHER'S HELPER NEEDED.
Send resume to carrie.sayer@gmail.com
UM LAW PROFESSOR seeks respon-
sible student for part-time care for our
9 & 12 year olds. After school help a
few days a week and occasional
evenings. Car req, close to campus.
Ref. needed. French speaker a plus.
Call Steve or Nancy at 734-761-7752.

I

I

Get 'em while they're freshmen.
Theviwon'tbe rie for Inne.

NEW SOCIAL NETWORK with
AMAZING Features--Get This...Self
destruct E-mail, Cool Games & Last
but not Least, earn a few dollars doing
nothing but what you do already.
http://www.psIOl.info

INTERESTED IN ORG. Studies and
Advertising? Join MAOS: Michigan
Advertising and Org. Studies.
E-mail: arikalfi@umich.edu

I

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 38 "Passages" 48 Political
1 Places for 1 Short snoozes author Sheehy candidate lineups
chickens 2 Traveling away 39 Insurance 49 Adages
6 Teapot feature from home company with 50 First symbol on a
11 pamank01 3 Verp husp Snoopy on its musical taff
14 Comicsaorphan. 4 Pumpkin blimp 83 Supplp parylfood
15 Skier's jacket desserts 40 State cop for
16 Youthful fellow 5 Part of a line: 41 -oxide: 57 Pale-green
17 London art Abbr. laughing gas moth
museum, as it 6 Bowler's 44 Circled the earth 60 ET's vehicle
was formerly challenges 45 Canadian cop 61 One-man show
known 7 Opposite of neo- 46 Smoochthat even about Capote
19 Some MIT grads 8 Source of iron misses the cheek 62 Use oars
20 Extreme degrees 9 Kiev is its cap.
21 LPGA teen 10 "Fire and Rain" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
phenom Michelle singer/songwriter
22 Tibet's capial James RAPT ADD ER BAR D
24 "payureadyfort1Vacuum _ AV ERA GDE O U AT RUE R
tis?" 12 Orchestra AVE REA GTE U S E RM
25 Its seat is Jackson, conductors, TENL EMETE S EADAO
Wyoming formally
28 Oinker 13 "Sounds about D U E T T R I S H A C i R
29 Proofs of age, rightto me" G E T S M A R T E N G I N E
briefly 18 Dumbfounded A X E R R E A T T A
30 Ones making 23Biggametracker HA T D I D I T E L L Y O U
money 25,_torch: patio R O D H A M N O T E
31lPuinty-eared FigODHMhOT
"SlarTrek"guy 26Twice-monthly I N H O M E G R I D I R O N
33Cookieholder tide T E E E N B A N C N OR1
34Smalljazz combo 27Ireneof"Fame" E S S E X A B O B O S O N
35 It showsabook's 32Radiologist's U T I L T H E P I A N I S T
name, author, procedure, brieflyp LOY SA E PETCH
publisher, etc. 33past plane P L DY SAL ES P 1 T C H
39 Partsofthe 36Norsethundergod SY N S K I L N S T A OS
Rockies: Abbr. 37 "The Ranger" xwordeditor@aol.com 09/1109
42 Boiling 1 2 4 5 *7 8 9S 10 11 12 13
43 Kitchen allure
47 Norse mariner ,4 15 16
Leil
49 AT&T competitor 17 18 1s
51 King, in France
52 Photographic 20 21 22 23
54 Pcklp chestnut 24 2 26 27
case
55 Blackmore's " 28 29 30
. oone"
56 Paul Bunyan's 31. 32 33 34
tool 35 3 378
57 Piece of sausage
58 Stockmkt. debut s 4 4a 42 4 44 as a4
59 Muli-lavored ice
cream o47 a 49 as 5 u
63 Fire, to the French
64 Actor Zimbalist Jr. 52 .3 54
65 "the loneliest
numbef":old 5 5 5
song lyric 5 596 612
66 Ambulance
destinations, for s 465
67 oes bad, as milk a 6 67 Ia
68 Strolls in shallow
water yLia Chery/4
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. /14/9

FREE 1ST MO. rent, GREAT loc near
Athletic Campus, 4-6 Bdrms/Bsmt/Lg
Parking Area. sehilll@cmcast.net
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for details (734) 668-
1100 or
http://www.varsitymanagement.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.cotn or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE 4 BDRM House, FREE Park-
ing, Next to Athletic Campus, On a
quiet street. 248-488-4379.
LG RM. SOUTH University. Short
walk to campus and CCRB. Prkg. 5
wonderful roommates. 269-352-9914.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Churc Street. More info at
www.arcbrealtyco.com
!!LG. RM., Hill Si. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo45-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR 20100
http://www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. fern. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and ip,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus IHfeat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.arclirealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
APARTMENTS. 1 & 2 bdrm. Utilities
included. Free prkg. Near AATA down-
town and campus. Old west side. No
smoking, no pets. 734-426-7821.
SPARKLING, BRAND NEW 2 bdrm
condo. 275 Briarcrest. Tenns neg.
Immediate avail. $900/mo.
734-904-3274 or trumford aol.com
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
slop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

For Tuesday, Sept. 15, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Romantic relationships are confusing
now; in part, this is because so many
unexpected things are occurring, espe-
cially related to your job or your health.
When there is stress in one area, it shows
up in other areas as well. Remain calm.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Domestic matters and family situa-
tions are confusing today. Don't hold
others to their word. People don't know
what they're saying. There's a strong
sense of rebellion in the air.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
- You have Vaseline on your lens today.
That's why communication with others,
especially siblings and relatives, is con-
fusing! Meanwhile, a revolt is taking
place at home. Yikes!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Do not make any important decisions
about finances today. Similarly, do not
make any important purchases. You
might be deceived; or you might not
have all the facts. Use caution!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Partnerships are confusing today;
therefore, avoid any important decisions
about your relationships. Meanwhile,
you have to deal with surprises with
finances and possessions.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
This is a stressful year for partner-
ships. February was tough, and now
again, we have increased tension! Don't
throw the baby out with the bath water.
Figure out what you want.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Unexpected news at work might catch
you.off guard. Perhaps this is one reason
communication with friends and mem-

bers of groups is so confusing today.
Perhaps you're not all there.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 21)
There's so much instability with
friends, groups, clubs and organizations
that this is a poor day to make important
decisions about your life's direction.
Authority figures could snow you.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Differences and difficulties with
authority figures and parents might con-
tribute to confusion about travel plans.
Misunderstandings about school, higher
education, medicine and the law also are
likely. Yikes!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Avoid important decisions about
financial matters, especially shared
property. Just postpone these. Be careful,
because this is an accident-prone time.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Stress due to financial instability and
surprises can bring further stress to part-
nerslsips right now. Try to put rverytbing
on hold. You need clarity.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Partnerships are subject to conflict and
rebellion. Matters at work are confusing
and unclear. Obviously, this is not a good
day for important decisions!
YOU BORN TODAY You don't like
social pretension. You want to be free to
enjoy yourself and do what you want.
And one of the things you want to do is
earn money! (Wealth does have its
appeal!) Many of you find that you are
often dealing with secrets. You have
much to look forward to, because next
year could be one of the most powerful
years of your life.
Birthdate of: Prince Harry, British
royal; Tommy Lee Jones, actor; Agatha
Christie, murder-mystery writer.

4
4

4
4

read the michigan
daily horoscope

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per linefor each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contractsare available- contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in personawith a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unlesspriorbilling privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, orcheck
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

1
5



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 14, 2009.- 7A

RICH ROD
From Page 1A
go through practice to see 25-30 kids
or more on Saturdays in the offsea-
son in the summer, calling us up and
saying, 'Open the building up, we
want to go in there.' It's tremendous
the commitment they want. They're
all hungry. And that's the key."
On Saturday,the Wolverines won
in Rodriguez fashion. His gutsy
playcalling in the fourth quarter led
Michigan to a touchdown instead of
settling for a field goal.
When the defense stumbled and
allowed Notre Dame quarterback
Jimmy Clausen to throw for 336

yards, three touchdowns and no
interceptions, and the Irish (1-1)
gained the lead on back-to-back
fourth-quartertouchdowns,Rodri-
guez showed why he can win.
The quarterback he recruited
and signed looked like a hero in just
his second-ever collegiate game.
Forcier's 240 yards, 69.7 comple-
tion percentage and veteran-like
poise earned him praise from every
teammate, coach and maize-clad
fan. But immediately followingthe
game, you couldn't miss Forcier's
biggest admirer. As the field turned
into a sea of commotion, Rodriguez
embraced Forcier and ruffled his
light brown locks to congratulate
the 19-year-old on one of the big-

gest games of both of their careers.
And the veterans, the most obvi-
ous reminders of the Lloyd Carr
administration, looked like they had
been Rodriguez's players all along.
Mathews' fourth-quarter catch
erased his unfulfilling junior year
and rekindled the promise fans
saw in him with Chad Henne under
center.
Minor's 106 yards on 11 carries
reminded everyone that it's not
just Rodriguez's recruits that want
to run his offense.
"Yeah, you know, I told Coach
Rod, I told everybody we about to
make history," Minor said on the
field, seconds after Michigan's win.
"I told them this our time."


CRIME
From Page 1A
the incident who have experienced
similar break-ins last weekend.
"There was a big party going on
next door when it occurred," Ham-
burger said. "It must have definite-
ly made it easier for someone to
slip by unnoticed."
} Blackwell noted that house par-
ties could make a theft easier for
burglars to carry out. Despite the
fact that there may be hundreds of
witnesses, he said, there is usually
no way to pinpoint a suspect.
"There are 200 to 300 people at a
house party,"Blackwellsaid."People
go to house parties and mingle right
on in and scope out the place. They
might come back another time, or if
they see the opportunity they'll take
something right then and there."
Music, Theatre & Dance senior
Laura Lapidus arrived home with
twoofherroommatesshortlybefore
the football game on Saturday to
find that three of the bedrooms
had been broken into. Items miss-
ing included four laptop computers,

personal credit cards and cash, an
iPod, and a digital camera. Lapidus
estimated that everything in total
was worth more than $5,000.
The intruder or intruders broke
in between the hours of noon and 3
p.m. Saturday, Lapidus said, while
students and fans alike covered the
heavily populated area.
"Assillyas itsounds,wearescared
that whoever broke in was watch-
ing us," Lapidus said. "They broke in
the middle of the day at just the right
time that none ofus were home."
Kinesiology senior Dan Schach-
ne and Business senior Dave
Jablonski said their house was
broken into through one of the
side doors Thursday afternoon. A
laptop, a 42-inch LCD TV, a Play-
station 3, two controllers and two
video games were stolen from their
home near the intersection of Hill
and State Streets.
Blackwellsaid the bestway to pre-
vent a breaking-and-entering from
occurring is lock all of your doors
and windows when you are gone,
and be sure that there is never any-
one you don't know in your home.
"When people ask for someone

who does not live at your house,
call 911 - it is a ploy for thieves,"
Blackwell said. "Even if it seems
like they are actually a student
looking for their friend at the
wrong house, it's better to be safe
now than to find you are missing
personal items later."
Music, Theatre & Dance senior
Bridget Gabbe, one of Lapidus'
housemates, said they are now sec-
ond-guessing their houses safety
because of the break-in.
"It's notjust the fact that the com-
puters were taken," Gabbe said. "It's
the fact that there were strangers
in our house and it was so easy for
them to get in. None of us feel right
about staying in our house now."
Like Gabbe, Kaplan said he
finds the fact that strangers so eas-
ily entered his house a sobering
thought.
"You come home to find that
someone was in your room, touch-
ing your personal items," Kaplan
said. "It's not just the hardware. I
feel invaded - myprivacy is gone. I
have to keep worrying about this. I
can't think of my room as the safest
place for my things anymore."


LEGISLATION
From Page 1A
of.08, the level oflegal intoxication.
Initially, State Rep. Lee Gonza-
les (D-Flint) introduced a bill to the
House Transportation Committee
calling for text messaging while
driving to be classified as a second-
ary offense. Inother words, a driver
would need to be pulled over for an
offense like speeding or weaving in
lanes, both primary offenses, and
only then could be charged with
text messaging while driving.
But recently, the bill's sponsors
altered it to include more serious

penalties.
Tim Sneller, legislative direc-
tor for State Rep. Gino Polidori
(D-Dearborn), said the represen-
tative decided to change the bill
after receiving new information
about the dangers of text messag-
ing while driving.
"Statistics have shown text mes-
saging causes accidents. Many
groups have confirmed that,"
Sneller said. "What is so damn
important? If you want to text, pull
over to the side of the road."
The new bills have not yet been
introduced to the House Transpor-
tation Committee.
Engineering freshman Pam

Haupt said she felt frustrated with
text messaging drivers.
"Texting while driving is worse
than using your cell phone," Haupt
said. "You get on the freeway and
people are all over the road."
Though Haupt agreed with the
initiative,she admitted to sometimes
text messaging while at a stoplight.
Engineering freshman Andy
Scheffer said he would also be in
favor of the ban because he feels it
would help increase safety on the
roads.
"I saw a'guy driving the other
day with his knees and texting,"
Scheffer said. "It makes me wor-
ried about my own safety."



8A - Monday, September 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Monday, September14, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom A

U


Roberts: 'Everyone on the court wishes they were John Marshall'

From Page1A
members he was surprised by the
level of camaraderie between the
justices.
"We read the same cases, we
read the same briefings, we go to
the same arguments, we struggle
with the same issues and even if we
come out on opposite sides of the
same issue that does create a very
close bond," Roberts said. "You do
feel like a part of the family right
away."
Caminker also asked Roberts
what he would say if President
Barack Obama asked him what
qualities he would like to see in a
new Supreme Court justice.
"He could save alot of trouble by
giving me an extra vote," Roberts
said jokingly.
In light of the recent appoint-
ment of Justice Sonia Sotomayor,
an audience member asked Rob-
erts if justices are concerned about
who will fill a vacancy on the court
when one exists.
"There's a great deal of concern,"
Roberts said emphasizing the influ-

ence a justice's vote has and the
long tenure many justices serve.
Another audience member asked
Roberts if he could foresee any
problems he or other members of
the Court may have with Sotomay-
or.
"I think she's going to be a
delightful, wonderful colleague,"
Roberts said. "I feel very privileged
to have the opportunity to serve on
the court with her."
Roberts was also asked if he felt
justices, many who have attended
Ivy League universities, may not be
able to fully grasp the problems of
the common man brought before
the court.
"First of all, I disagree with your
premise," Roberts said. "Not all of
the justices went to elite institu-
tions; some went to Yale."
After a hearty laugh by members
of the crowd, Roberts, who attend-
ed Harvard Law School, continued:
"I will pay for that."
Roberts continued to answer the
question by explaining the court's
role as an institution that relies on
lawyers to represent the problems

of their clients and properly edu-
cate the justices on the issues being
considered.
Caminker asked Roberts wheth-
er he thought this was a good time
to be the chief justice.
"Everybody on the court wishes
they were John Marshall, but that
is like saying every basketball play-
er wishes they were Michael Jor-
dan," Roberts said.
Another audience member asked
Roberts why the Court is hearing
fewer cases than it historically has.
Roberts responded by saying it's
impossible for anyone to know the
reason why.
Asked why the Court does not
immediately release the audio
recordings of all oral arguments,
Roberts said he appreciates and
understands the concern, but that
the release of the audio recordings
can change how the process func-
tions.
"It's a good question," Roberts
said. "It's sort of an ongoing debate,
and it's obviously not my decision
alone."
As is popularly known among

legal circles, the Supreme Court
has a basketball court above the
actual courtroom of the Supreme
Court. Caminker asked Roberts
about his use of the facility, jok-
ingly calling it "the highest court
in the land."
"I did not exhibit the sort ofskills
you'd expect someone from Indiana
to show," Roberts said of his use of
the court's basketball facilities.
One member of the audience
asked Roberts, on the eighth anni-
versary of Sept. 11, how Roberts
made sense of the balance between
security and freedom and if his
opinion of the balance had changed
in the last eight years.
"It is Sept. 11, and I do think
we've gotten to the point where
we've forgotten what that means,"
Roberts said. "It's worth paus-
ing and remembering that people,
younger than most of you here,
are, at this very moment, dying and
defending the freedoms that we all
enjoy."
Roberts continued to say, "It's a
difficult question," and is one that
generalities cannot fully answer.

One audience member asked
Roberts what he would like to see
changed or added to the curricu-
lum for law students.
"I think there ought to be more
focus on a sort of shared educa-
tional experience," Roberts said. "I
think, for example, that everyone
who graduates from a university in
this country ought to know what the
Federalist Papers are; they ought to
know who Shakespeare is."
Roberts continued by saying the
same thing should be true for law
students, saying that all first-year
law students should take classes
that focus on basic topics like a
course on anti-trust or interna-
tional law.
Many alumni who attended the
event said having Roberts as the
keynote speaker was one of the rea-
sons they decided to come back for
the 150th anniversary celebration.
Dona Tracy, a 1976 Law School
graduate, said the opportunity to
hear Roberts speak was a big draw
for her, and that coming back to the
University made her remember why
she first wanted to be a lawyer.

"It's wonderful to be back,"
Tracy said. "I think what's nice is
that as an attorney that has been
practicing, and I think most attor-
neys feel so involved in the day-to-
day work practicing law, it's nice to
come back to the Law School to be
inspired by the ideals that brought
us here in the first place."
David Weinman, a 1962 graduate
ofthe Law School, said comingback
to campus made him remember his
glory days at the University.
Weinman said while at the Uni-
versity he saw then-President John
F. Kennedy propose the creation
of the Peace Corps on the steps of
the Michigan Union and that the
speech inspired him to found and
become the director of the Peace
Corps program in Turkey.
University President Mary Sue
Coleman, who attended the event,
said she enjoyed listening to Roberts
and was happy he agreed to come to
Ann Arbor for the weekend.
"I loved the session in Hill,"
Coleman said. "It's been a special
thrill to have the chief justice here.
He has given us so much time."

I

4


Choice is a wonderful thing, especially when it comes to your health. IHA accepts over
50 insurances including M-Premier. With 30 offices, 150 doctors, and a staff of nearly
900 strong, you can choose any IHA office with confidence.
IHA is one of the best and also largest private multi-specialty groups in southeast
Michigan. From open access and extended office hours to after-hours care and nurse
triage services, IHA doctors will see you when you need us, and provide you with the
best possible care. That's how IHA cares.
Find your new doctor at IHAcares.com or call 734.995.2950.

4

l
J_

4

4


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I September 14, 2009

MICHIGAN 38, NOTRE DAME 34

Senior Greg Mathews caught the game-winning pass with 11 seconds remaining in the game. Mathews slanted in, cut back toward the pile-on, and freshman Tate Forcier found him for the score. Michigan is 2-0 for the first time since 2006. CF REEDER/Daily
RICH ROD-EMPTION

'Physical' Minor keys'M'
By ANDY REID healthy - has invoked visions of former
Daily Sports Editor NFL standout Eric Dickerson's hard-nosed
style, finding a hole and sprinting north-
Bring him up after a game - any game, south toward the end zone. Just
even a loss. Ask around - any Michigan If there happens to be a defender in the
football coach or player will have the same way, so be it. Minor is more likely to run numb
thing to say about Brandon Minor. through opponents than around them.
"The biggest thing he brings is a physi- And Saturday against Notre Dame, Mi- and then
cal presence when he runs," Rich Rodri- nor did just that, especially in the game-
guez said after last year's 45-17 beatdown changing third quarter when he tallied 64 referee reminded
at Penn State, in which Minor was the lone yards on his way to a 106-yard day.
bright spot, bruising his way to 117 yards. "On offense, I couldn't tell you exactly me to be smart. It
"You can expect a real aggressive, physi- what they did," said Fighting Irish coach
cal game," Minor said this offseason, when Charlie Weis, who calls all of his team's made me think of
asked about his performance this year. offensive plays. "I was trying to get our of-
And after sitting out against Western fense straightened out. I know they were Coach Rod saying
Michigan with a slight ankle tweak, the se- moving the ball some and had us reeling,
nior running back's 2009 debut lived up to especially on the inside run. When I would Hand the ball to
his reputation. see something, it was usually an inside
"He was physical," sophomore tight end run, No. 4 (Minor's jersey number) getting the referee and
Kevin Koger said. "He ran hard. It was good through right there"
to have him back there.' And while Weis was frustrated with Mi- celebrate with your
Well, there's nothing new there. nor's pounding running style, Notre Dame
On his second carry of the season, Mi- defensive coordinator Jon Tenuta was teammates, and
nor showcased just why he might be one of scratching his head for a wholly different
the Big Ten's most explosive ball carriers. reason - Minor's intense blocking abilities. that's what I did."
He took the ball, found the hole and burst Tenuta's schemes are based around aggres- Senior wide receiver Greg
through it for a 22-yard gain. sive blitzes that are difficult for any quar-
It wasn't a juke-heavy, SportsCenter- terback to read, especially a freshman like Mathews on his game-winning
worthy run. But that's never what Minor Tate Forcier. catch in the final seconds against
has been about. Instead, Minor -when See MINOR, Page 31 Notre Dame.

Forcier the real
Golden Tate

When I was a freshman three
years ago, it was easy to spot
the football players on cam-
pus.
I walked to class
behind those black
backpacks with the
small Rose Bowl logo
and knew who I was
walking behind. That
was a Michigan foot-
ball player.-
Then Lloyd Carr's MICHAEL
team lost to Appala- EISENSTEIN
chian State, he retired
and Rich Rodriguez
came to town. Those
backpacks slowly disappeared.
The longing for the football team's
prominence on campus will disappear
today. Things will feel different. Michi-
gan football under Rich Rodriguez finally
has a tangible image.
Tate Forcier.
Forcier isn't a normal freshman in An-

gell Hall. People spell his first name with
three letters now ("G," "O" and "D"). The
quarterback is the cover boy of the Ro-
driguez Michigan football turnaround
success story that started a little more
than a week ago.
His older brother Jason said that
Tate has blended into his classes well
so far because he's "not the biggest guy
around." But after this weekend, are you
really not going to recognize one of the
most talked-about football players in the
country?
Forcier's game-winning drive Satur-
day against Notre Dame has transformed
him in everyone's eyes. It was certainly
surprising that it came from a freshman
- even for fans that witnessed a simi-
lar freshman-quarterback performance
when Chad Henne beat Michigan State
in triple overtime five years ago.
And it was also somewhat surprising
because he's a completely different type
of quarterback fromthe physical and pro-
skill mold that Wolverine fans were used
See EISENSTEIN, Page 3B


Wolverines smash Lipscomb

Paz sets tone in tourney victory

By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
A group of U-13 soccer players lined
the stands yesterday at the U-M Soccer
Complex to watch the men's Michigan
soccer team battle Lipscomb University.
They stood in awe as Wolverine play-
ers flicked passes with their heels and
delivered perfectly placed balls across
the field. Just minutes after the referee's
game-starting whistle, one youngster
smiled and said sarcastically, "I feel bad
for Lipscomb."
Even early in the game, it was obvious
that Michigan (4-1) would take no pity on
the small school from Nashville, Tenn.
The Wolverine offense exploded in the
first half, barraging Lipscomb goalkeeper
Patrick Walsh with 11 shots en route to a
decisive 3-0 victory.

"We were trying to put a complete game
together and we came closer," Michigan
coach Steve Burns said. "There's an ener-
gy level that has to be sustained, particu-
larly when we've got a good bench with
some depth.'
Senior forward Mauro Fuzetti dis-
played his trademark nifty footwork
again yesterday, once sending a Bison de-
fender to the ground as the player's knees
buckled beneath him. On a breakaway
early in the first half, Fuzetti buried his
team-leading sixth goal of the season to
give the Wolverines an early 1-0 advan-
tage. Michigan continued to overwhelm
Lipscomb with quality scoring opportu-
nities but failed to convert again until the
25th minute.
On a free kick from 18 yards out, fresh-
man midfielder Hamoody Saad rocketed
See BISON, Page 2B

By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writer
Another regular-season tournament,
another victory.
To some teams, it might come as a sur-
prise, but to the Michigan volleyball team,
it's just another step.
The seventh-ranked Wolverines have
won 17 consecutive regular-season tour-
naments, the most recent coming this
weekend at home in the Michigan Chal-
lenge.
"We're progressing really well," Michi-
gan coach Mark Rosen said. "This week-
end, we were able to work on the depth
of our team and work some players into
the lineup that haven't played a whole lot
this year.
"Every game, we put just enough pres-

sure on (other teams) that after a while,
they would break for a few points.'
The Wolverines (10-0) capped off the
weekend with a three-set victory over
Missouri (7-3) on Saturday night, after
also defeating Fairfield, Morehead State
and Virginia Commonwealth.
Senior outside hitter Juliana Paz paved
the way for Michigan all weekend. The
Porto Alegre, Brazil native registered 13
kills and 11 digs in the weekend's final
match against the Tigers.
Paz nabbed MVP honors for her stellar
four-match weekend.
"It's an individual award, but it's really
for the team," Paz said. "If I didn't have the
pass or the set, I wouldn't get the MVP....
I'm just trying to do my best here and the
award shows our team's hard work."
See VOLLEYBALL, Page 2B

SAIDA LSALAH/Daily
Senior Juliana Paz celebrates the Wolverines' 4-0
record in the Michigan Challenge.


The Michigan women's soccer team had
never won in California. Did the Wolverines
fare better this weekend? Page 2B.

The new music in Michigan Stadium has
caused quite a stir. Fans love it, but is there any
way to make it better? Page 2B.



2B - September 1l4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

28 - September14, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4

Wolverines winless in pair
of tight California contests

4

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Michigan Stadium featured piped-in music for the first time during Saturday's 38-34 victory over Notre Dame.
My pipe(d) dream: a better
M ad
Michigan Stad ulp M mIxtape

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
In five games the Michigan
women's soccer team had never
won in the state of California.
That streak continued after this
weekend's losses at Cal State Ful-
lerton and Southern California.
Michigan lost 2-0 against the
Titans at Titan Stadium on Friday
and then fell 2-1 to the Trojans at
McAlister
Field yes- CS-FULLERTON 2
terday. MICHIGAN 0
With
the teams SOUTHERN CAL 2
combin- MICHIGAN 1
ing for
two red cards on Friday, four yel-
low cards yesterday and a total of
37 total fouls committed in both
games, Michigan coach Greg Ryan
liked the physicality his team
showed all weekend, despite the
negative outcomes.
"We won't play against a team
that plays more physically than
USC," Ryan said. "They're just a
bunch of beaters. They took a lot
of cheap shots. They were fouling
from behind all the time - the refs
let them get away with it. And so
our players had to learn to deal
with the physical aspect of that
game. And I thought they did real-
ly well. ... The efs wee the 12th
man today for USC."
Junior forward Amanda Bow-
ery was given a red card in the 33rd
minute of Friday's game and was
forced to sit out yesterday's game
because of the penalty. The team
clearly missed the player that Ryan
called his "top striker."
Ryan said that in Sunday's game
against Southern Cal, the Wol-
verines had to start half of their
second-string players because of
a lack of depth, Bowery's absence
and being downright "gassed"
from the first game.
But, even afterthe resultingloss,
Ryan still thought Michigan put up
a good fight against the Trojans.
"It was a real credit to the team
that they came back with that kind
of effort," Ryan said."I mean, we're
better than Fullerton, and we lost
the game by two goals. I think a lot
of teams would just throw in the
towel.... They didn't, they respond-
ed and played their hearts out. And
could've gotten a win."
Sophomore Kristen Goncalves
scored in the 28th minute when
junior Jackie Carron sent a free
kick to the left of the Southern Cal
wall, Goncalves, who was mak-
ing a run behind the wall, was
able to deflect the ball past the
outstretched arms of Trojan goal-
keeper Kristin Olsen.
The Wolverines (3-5) held the
lead until the middle of the second
half, when Southern Cal scored on
a free kick. Ryan wasn't hesitant to
note his disappointment in the offi-

{

4

It looks like the loudspeaker
music in Michigan Stadium is
here to stay.
I'll be honest with you: I'm not
crazy about the idea. I've been
coming to
Michigan home
games since I
was in diapers,
and any music
that doesn'tl
come from the
band is a little
disappoint- ANDY
ing, But after REID
the way the-
student sec-
tion responded to Eminem's "Lose
Yourself," even I can't deny that
the music definitely pumps up the
crowd.
Although some songs have
been met with high enthusiasm,
the music often seems sloppily
thrown together and played at
odd times during the game. I'm
here to help.
These are my ideas to help the
Athletic Department make the
most out of the game-day musical
experience.
SLOW BALLADS
Does anyone disagree that it
sounds awesome when the whole
student section unites for one
song?
I went to Wisconsin two years
ago, and the student section sang
"Build Me Up Buttercup" from
beginning to end with only about
20 seconds of piped-in prompt.
Michigan needs its own "Build
Me Up Buttercup."
Sometime in the third quarter,
when there's a lull in the action
after a punt, all Michigan has to
VOLLEYBALL
From page 1B
Her performance earned her All-
Tournament Team honors along
with junior setter Lexi Zimmerman
and sophomore right side hitter Alex
Hunt.
Rosen praised Michigan's humble
mindset in the face of an undefeated
BISON
From page 1B
a ball off the crossbar and into
the goal to extend the Wolverines'
lead. The early two-goal advantage
allowed Burns to actively substitute
inexperienced players for the re-
mainder of the first half.
"The younger guys did great," se-
nior captain Danny Gray said. "My-
self personally, I struggled a little
bit today. A couple of the older guys,
we've got a lot of minutes on our
legs, so it was nice to see the young

do is play the first 30 seconds or so
of "Lean On Me" by Bill Withers.
Everyone in the student section
should put their arms around each
other's shoulders, sway and just
belt it out. If students can be con-
vinced to continue after the song
is cut from the loudspeakers -
which didn't happen when "Sweet
Caroline" played during the West-
ern Michigan game - it could cre-
ate a really unique tradition.
I mean, how offsetting would
that be for the opposing team?
WHITE STRIPES
Okay, it was pretty cool when
everyone got into the bass solo
in the opening bars of the White
Stripes' "Seven Nation Army," but
then they played it again.
And again. And again. If it
keeps up, every play will be fol-
lowed by that mind-numbing
chant. Moderation, please.
SPEAKING OF MODERATION...
One of the loudest boos all day
came while the Michigan Stadium
announcer kindly reminded the
fans that the legal drinking age
was 21. Clearly, there were plenty
of students who interpreted the
law differently.
Why not play along with the
joke?
Blast Montgomery Gentry's "I
Got Drunk" right after the mes-
sage. I've never actually heard the
song - a quick google search for
"songs about booze" led me to it -
but I'm sure, given the songs title,
it will get the point across.
THE FORCE IS STRONG
Everyone plays the "Impe-
rial March," better known as the
record and the highest national rank-
ing in program history.
"We don't want to take anything
for granted," Rosen said. "That's how
you get upset. Our players did a nice
job ofnot casting any value judgments
on any teams we were playing and we
just focused on our side of the court."
The weekend tournament allowed
Rosen to put some of his younger
and less experienced players into the
guys come in and make an impact."
Early in the second half, Michi-
gan's defense was finally tested.
Lipscomb (2-2-1) aggressively in-
vaded Michigan's box and deliv-
ered 12 shots in the period, two of
which deflected off the post, but the
Wolverines preserved their shutout
with timely tackles and tight man-
to-man defense.
"I wish we didn't bend quite as
much as we did today, but it was nice
to see that we were getting those
tackles," Gray said. "And at the end
of the game, there was a zero on the
scoreboard. The shutout it is some-

Darth Vader music from the Star
Wars movies. Sure, it's imposing,
but it's also overplayed and not
very creative.
Few teams, however, have a
reason to play "Star Wars (Main
Theme)." Now Michigan does.
We've all heard the pun-heavy
"May the Forcier be with you" or
"The Forcier is strong in this one"
jokes. They're here - for better or
worse - for the next four years, or
as long as Tate Forcier is the start-
ing quarterback.
Play the song any time he trots
out onto the field. The fans can
bow to him or something - since
everyone in Michigan Stadium
has already deemed him the sav-
ior of all things Michigan football.
JOCK JAMS101
Michigan obviously can't break
out the "Zombie Nation" any time
soon. Penn State has a lockdown
on the pseudo-techno drivel, and
although it works well for them,
Michigan football doesn't copy
anyone. It's an institution that
must make its own traditions.
There is one exception, though.
Any time the Nittany Lions
visit Ann Arbor and lose - which
is to be expected, after all, con-
sidering Michigan's 10-4 all-time
record over Penn State - blast it
toward the end of the game. The
student section needs to simply
change the words of the famous
Penn State chant to this:
"We Own Penn State."
- Reid would rather just stick
with the greatest marching band
in the country. How awesome is
"Temptation"? He can be reached
at andyreid vumich.edu.
lineup to help familiarize themselves
with the tempo and style of collegiate
volleyball.
"We have a very unique team for
college volleyball," Rosen said. "We
are very fortunate, because we have a
fair amount of players who are really
good six-rotation players. It's good
and bad. It's hard because we're only
playing seven players, but it'sjust how
this team is made up."
thing we take pride in."
Junior defender Adam Keller put
the game out of reach in the 73rd
minute. Saad delivered a perfect
ball to the near post and Keller vol-
leyed in the final goal to deflate Lip-
scomb's comeback hopes.
Despite the lopsided final score,
the Wolverines still executed poorly
on odd-man advantages and missed
numerous easy chances inside the
box. While such errors may be
costly against more formidable op-
ponents later in the season, Michi-
gan overcame its mistakes against
the Bison.

Junior Amanda Bowery received a red card Friday against Cal State-Fullerton.

cials' choice to award a free kick.
"It was never a foul," Ryan said.
"And anybody looking at it would
see it was never a foul. And our
player had no idea what had hap-
pened, but their player just threw
herself to the ground and took
a dive and it ended up being the
tying goal."
The Trojans scored the winning
goal with less than nine minutes
left to play.
Goncalves' goal against South-
ern Cal was the only one of the
weekend for the Wolverines. Two
days earlier against Cal State Ful-
lerton, Michigan couldn't capital-
ize on its scoring chances.
The Wolverines had two shots
find their way to the back of the
net, but both goals were nullified.
Sophomore Kelsey Rogind scored
on a rebound in the middle of the
first half, but she was ruled off-
sides. And junior Sarah Stanczyk
buried a header, but it was called
back because she had come in con-
tact with the Cal State goalkeeper.
Michigan also had a chance
early in the game with a penalty
kick, but the team failed to con-
vert. The Titans scored on a pen-
alty kick of their own in the 31st

minute and added another goal in
the middle of the second half.
Despite being swept, the Wol-
verines had plenty to gain from
the West Coast trip. According to
Ryan, the physical play this week-
end is similar to what Michigan
will see in the Big Ten - minus the
cheap shots.
Michigan also currently has
four players from California, and
Ryan said that players from the
Wolverines' 2011 recruiting class
were at yesterday's game. As Ryan
continues his effort to build up
the program, he thinks California
is the place where Michigan can
expose its players and benefit by
building a recruiting pipeline.
"We're going to be making a
trip to Southern Cal every year,"
Ryan said,;"This is one of the best
areas to recruit in the country.And
it's a big part of helping us land
recruits."
The Wolverines may not have
gotten a win this weekend, but
Michigan showed it could contend
with a preseason eighth-ranked
team in USC. And as for the Wol-
verines' 0-7 record in California?
"It's going to come next year,"
Ryan said confidently.

Laytos sets tone for M' win

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Dribbling down the sidelines
and passing in a zig-zag formation
like they were cruising around
cones, the No. 20 Michigan field
hockey team dribbled around, hit
past, and out ran Ball State, in a
4-0 victory against the Cardinals
on Sunday.
Michigan's win was a much-
needed confidence booster after
Saturday's 5-1 loss against Con-
necticut.
Michigan coach Marcia Pank-
ratz is back at the helm after a
four-year hiatus from AnnArbor,
and she brought with her a more
intense practiceschedulethanany-
one on the team has seen before.
"You don't even get water
breaks," junior Paige Laytos said.
"You have to have your water bot-
tles with you. It is just constantly
high intensity, and its good for us.
It's good mental toughness and
it's just letting us get prepared for
everything down the road."
Pankratz coached from 1996 to
2004, leading the team to its first
and only NCAA title in 2001. On
Sunday, the Wolverines' hard work

paid off.
Michigan kept the ball in neu-
tral territory much of the first half
before sharing its offense in the
second half.
The win was a result of strong
all-around performances, but
senior captain Jenner Johnson
stood out, covering much of the
middle length of the field, running
goal-to-goal and possessing the
ball much of the time.
Her performance was comple-
mented by an aggressive offensive
attack.
Twenty-five minutes into the
game, Laytos dribbled the ball past
the are and to the right side of the
goal frame, scoringthe first goal of
the game and set the tone for the
remaining time.
"Coach kept saying pull right
and Ikeptpullingleft," Laytos said.
"So finally it clicked and I pulled
right, and I took it when everyone
looked kind of confused and was in
a cluster. So I took it and shot and
it went in."
The second half saw more wide
shots and more blocked shots by
Ball State senior Tiffany Shifflett,
who blocked nine of Michigan's 13
attempts.

But then, sophomore Bryn Bain
saw an opening down the middle,
dribbled right up and shot past
Shifflett at 44:19, evening her
career best goal streak to four.
Junior Meredith Way made the
Cardinals wary of penalty cor-
ners when she scored shortly after
Bain with assists from Laytos and
sophomore Eileen Brandes. And
with just five minutes left in the
regulation, senior Alex Zeringue
scored the fourth and final goal of
the day.
Considering that three out of
the six teams the Wolverines have
faced so far are ranked fourth or
better in their respective confer-
ence standings, Michigan's record
seems less important than their
ability to compete with the tough-
est teams. Against No. 4 North
Carolina and No. 2 Wake Forest,
the Wolverines allowed only two
goals and scored one in each out-
ing.
In Pankratz's first stint in Ann
Arbor, the Wolverines went from
finishing the regular season sixth
inthe Big Tento grabbingthe 2001
NCAA title under Pankratz.
And Pankratz is back to help the
team do it all over again.

4


WERE DID YOU WATCH THE GAME SATURDAY?
WERE YOU ON THE FIELD? DAILY SPORTS WAS.
COME TO OUR MASS MEETING:
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 8 P.M., 420 MAYNARD 5

4

. 4


The Michigan Daily -y michigandaily.com

September 14, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom September14, 2009 - 3B

GAME STATISTICS

jTeam Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
Offensive Plays
Total Offense
Kick returns/ Yds
Punt returns/ Yds
Comp/Att/nt
Punts/Avg
Fumbles/Lost
Penalties/Yards
Time of Poss
PASSING
Player
For.er
Totals
RUSHING
Player
Minr
ForierI
IRobinson
frown
Odoms
Totals
RECEIVING
Player P
Mathews
Stom
KOer
&own
Odoms
Savoy
Grady, Kel.
Totals
PUNING
Per r
Fcer -
Totals
IKICKOFF RETURNS
Player
Odoms
PUNT RETURNS
PlayerH
TAKLESR
Player
Woofk
WhiAs
EHRHR
Graham
Kovcs
RohA
Matthews
Flyd
North
Sith
PASSING
RUSHING
Player .
y Kem
Grayj.
iRick
RECEVNG
Player h
PRudolph
tiAllen
Gray J.
Karanr
PUNIN
Player
Maust
KICKOFF RETURNS
Payer
VGau
Rddck
Toal
PUNT RETURNS
Playr
Hering
TACKLES

Smith, H.
McCarthy
Smith, B.
Walls
McNeil
Smith, T.
Fleming
Johnson
Williams
Ryan
Blanton
Brown
Gordon
Lewis-Moore
r
Anel
Telo
Anello
Slaughter
Motta
Totals

MICH
21
38/190
240
71
430
7/202
0/U
23/33/1
4/40
3/0
6/59
28:35

ND
27
30/154
336
72
490
3/100
1/5
25/42/0
5/36
1/1
9/75
31:25

M IC H IGA N
C-A Yds TO
23-33 240 2
23-33 240 2
Att Yds Avg lg
16 106 6.6 32
13 70 $.4 31
4 21 5.2 14
4 -3 -0.8 6
1 -4 -4.0 0
38 190 5.0 32

TD
t
t
0
0
0
2

No.
4
4
4
3
2
1
23

Yds
68
54
38
36
18
23
3
240

Avg
9.0
13.5
9.5
9
6
11.5
3
10.4

Lg
40
24
20
17
11
17
3
40

TD
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
2

No. Yds Avg Lg
1 50 50 50
5 180 36 50
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
6 108 18 25 0
No. Yds Avg Lg TD

The Wolverines jump into the student section in celebration seconds after Greg Mathews' game-winning touchdown catch with 11 seconds left Saturday.

Wolverine receivers react to
Mathews' game-winning catch

Solo Asst
5 3
4 4
2 5
3 3
3 3
4 1
4 1
3 0
2 1
1 2
2 0
1 1
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
0 1
0 1
38 26
Notre
G-A
25.42

Tot
8
8
7
6
6
5
5
3
3
3
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
0
63
D a m e
Yds TD
336 3

Att
21
1
1
2
3
1
1
30
No.
9
7
3
2
2
1
1
25

Yds
139
10
5
0
0
0
0
154
Yds
115
131
38
24
15
7
6
336

Avg
5
Avg
12.7
12
7.5
7
6

L9
24
10
5
1
4
0
0
24
L9
27
37
24
19
8
7
6
37

int
0
TO
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
TO
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
3

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
Saturday's now-famous Greg Mathews
winning touchdown catch surprised even
the other Michigan receiver on the field.
"Actually, in practice, I caught the ball
on the Y side of the field, because (quar-
terback Tate Forcier) has more room to
throw it," sophomore wideout Darryl
Stonum said. "And I don't know if he saw
something, like a blitz on that side, but
he threw it to Greg." N
On second-and-goal, NOTEBOOK
two Notre Dame line-
backers blitzed, giving Forcier little time
to get rid of the ball. Forcier reacted by
throwing the ball to Mathews, who made
the catch and immediately ran along the
back of the end zone in celebration. The
play, in which Mathews ran a slant and
then broke it outside, was one of three
goal-line routes that Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez said the team practices
every day.
"I just felt numb," Mathews said. "I
didn't know what to do. I just felt numb
and then the referee reminded me to be
smart. It made me think of Coach Rod
saying, 'Hand the ball to the referee and
celebrate with your teammates,' and
that's what I did."
It wasn't Mathews' only unconven-
tional catch of the game. On Michigan's
first touchdown drive, Mathews leaped

over a Notre Dame defender to grab a
Forcier pass and give the Wolverines a
first down. He finished as Michigan's top
receiver with 68 yards on five catches.
CISSOKO STRUGGLES: The lack of
depth in the Wolverine secondary has
been one of the team's biggest question
marks early this season, and sophomore
cornerback Boubacar Cissoko's perfor-
mance Saturday did little to instill con-
fidence in the unit.
Cissoko covered both of Notre Dame's
star receivers, Golden Tate and Michael
Floyd, but couldn't prevent two of their
touchdowns. The sophomore, listed
at 5-foot-9 and 177 pounds on the ros-
ter, looked outmatched from the start
against the 5-foot-11, 195-pound Tate
and especially against the 6-foot-3, 220-
pound Floyd. The two receivers finished
with a combined 246 receiving yards.
On Notre Dame's first touchdown
drive, in the second quarter with Michi-
gan up 14-3, Cissoko was nowhere near
Floyd as the receiver caught a 37-yard
pass to put Notre Dame in field-goal
range. A few plays later, Cissoko had
man-to-man coverage on Tate but gave
too much of a cushion, leaving Tate open
to catch the four-yard touchdown pass.
"It wasn't a point that we lost con-
fidence," fellow cornerback Donovan
Warren said. "Just playing corner, you're
going to have amnesia. (You have) to get
the next play, just play on the next play,

and that's what we did."
Cissoko ran into trouble again midway
through the fourth quarter. With Notre
Dame down by 11 but driving deep in
Michigan territory, quarterback Jimmy
Clausen threw the ball to Tate near the
end zone. Cissoko, who was covering
Tate, tried to make a play on the ball but
missed, laying still on the ground as the
receiver easily ran into the end zone.
"Hey, he's a sophomore - they're try-
ing to test him," senior defensive end
Brandon Graham said. "He gonna learn
as it goes. And he's gonna look at film,
he's gonna make his mistakes and then
he's gonna capitalize on them. Going
against two good receivers, congratula-
tions to Boubacar for sticking through
it."
WALK-ON FILLS IN: What could be
a better plug for Michigan's upcoming
open football tryouts than watching
one of the walk-ons shine on a national
stage?
Walk-on safety Jordan Kovacs wasn't
even listed on Saturday's depth chart
behind starter Mike Williams and true
freshman Vladimir Emilien. But after
Williams had to be helped off the field
with an injury during the third quarter,
Kovacs entered the game and registered
three tackles, two solo and one assisted.
"When he came up on the field, he
wasn't scared at all, actually," strong
safety Troy Woolfolk said. "I was like

expecting him to be all wide-eyed, but
he was ready to get down to business and
execute the plays. He's nice, a little shy,
but he's not timid. ... Once he gets on the
field, he's a mean, tackling machine."
Kovacs is a second generation Wolver-
ine walk-on -his father, Louis, played for
Michigan as a defensive back and earned
a varsity letter in 1982. The younger
Kovacs originally tried out for the teamin
September 2008 and was called back for
further evaluation, but was not allowed
to continue with the tryout process after
the Michigan coaches found out about a
previous knee surgery. In January 2009,
Kovacs tried out again and made the fall
roster. He ran the fastest 40-yard dash
time of all athletes at both tryouts, run-
ning a 4.68 in September 2008.
Since coming to Michigan, Rodriguez
has held four open tryouts, with the fifth
scheduled for this afternoon at 4 p.m.
He is very outspoken about the value
of a solid walk-on program, and talking
about Kovacs' performance after the
game was no exception.
"Notre Dame's got some outstand-
ing players, some four, five star nation-
al recruits ... and then we got Jordan
Kovacs," Rodriguez. "Not only does he
try out and make the team, he's in there
playing at safety in the middle of crunch
time on national TV against Notre
Dame. To me, that's pretty special and
I'm awfully proud of him."

No. Yds Avg lg
4 160 40 46
* 10 4 4

MINOR:Senior gains
106 yards in 2009 debut

No.
2
3
No.
1
Solo
4
5
5
4
4
3
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
47

Yds
77
23
100
Yds
5
5
Asst
7
4
2
3
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
24

Avg
38.5
23
333
Avg
5
9
7
4
4
4
3
2
2
2
2

Lg TD
52 0
23 0
52 0
Lg TD
5 0
5 0

From page 1B
Tenuta has made a name for him-
self by confusing offensive lines and
wreaking havoc on quarterbacks,
but Minor continuously picked up
blitzers, giving Forcier more time to
make his downfield reads.
Several times during the game,
Minor cut low on a linebacker or
defensive back, flipping the player
over his head.
And even though blocking is a
vastly underrated part of a running
back's duties, Minor did his part to
keep Forcier's uniform clean, figu-
ratively, since the game was played
on Michigan Stadium's field turf.
"Brandon just brings so much
because he's so physical," offensive
coordinator Calvin Magee said,
once again using the magic word
to describe Minor. "You probably
couldn't see with your naked eyes
how much protection he was giving

us on some of those passes. And he
ran hard. And the guys kind of fol-
low Brandon because he's a senior,
he runs hard and he plays physi-
cal."
Although the Michigan offense
found success without Minor in
the Wolverines' 31-7 shellacking
of Western Michigan, the senior is
going to be an integral part of any
success the team hopes to have this
season.
Sophomore running back Mike
Shaw knows just what Minor means
to the Michigan offense - and some-
how described the back's leadership
abilities without using the word
"physical."
"He came in and he took over the
game," Shaw said. "He controlled the
ball, and that's just the textbook way
of a Michigan back, how to play.
"So I know now I have it right in
front of me how I'm supposed to
play."

EISENSTEIN
From Page 1 B
to under Carr just two years
ago. Forcier is a defini-
tive Rich Rodriguez-type of
quarterback that can run the
spread and take off with the
ball.
In 2007, the last time Notre
Dame came to the Big House,
Michigan put up 38 points
in an emphatic win. It was
a statement game to tell the
country the Wolverines were
back after losing to Appala-
chian State and Oregon. It was
the debut of then-freshman
quarterback Ryan Mallett
against another very highly
recruited freshman quarter-
back, Jimmy Clausen.
Mallett didn't last at Michi-
gan. But Forcier will. He has
that speed and improvisation
to turn a fourth-and-three
with a defender in the back-
field into a 31-yard touchdown
run - something he learned
while doing one of his father's
drills in the backyard with his

brotherswhere theymastered
how to avoid getting hit.
On every touchdown pass,
from his two to wide receiver
Junior Hemingway last week
to the ones to tight end Kevin
Koger and wide receiver Greg
Mathews on Saturday, he
couldn't be more accurate if
he walked over to them and
put the ball directly in their
hands.
And it's impossible not to
like the attitude the spunk
he brings to the field, and the
nerves he doesn't bring any-
where near it.
"Everybody kept saying a
freshman can't do it," Forcier
said after the game. "And I did
it."
His comfort, both on and
off the field, as Michigan's
starting quarterback makes
it easy to believe he belongs.
Not to mention his ambition.
Jason, who lives with Tate,
said Tate watched film until
10 p.m. this whole week to
prepare for Notre Dame, until
the coaches had to kick him

out at night.
Forcier's personality has
radiated through the team.
Mathews and senior running
back Brandon Minor had de-
cent games themselves but held
nothing back when it came to
the 19-year-old quarterback.
Minor said that Forcier
"really showed us some-
thing" with his late drive.
And Mathews said he just felt
"blessed to have the opportu-
nity to play alongside him."
on the final play of the
game,hereadtheman-to-man
coverage, passed to his best
option and started the erup-
tion in Michigan Stadium.
It may be different when
we go to class today. Michigan
football feels back.
As for Forcier? It's impos-
sible to predict the next four
years. But fornow, he's already
off to the races, even with the
Wolverines on his back.
- Eisenstein can
be reached at
mseisen@umich.edu.

BIG TEN STANDINGS
Team Big Ten Overall
Michigan 0 0 2 0
Indiana 0 0 2 0
Iowa 0 0 2 0
Wisconsin 0 0 2 0
Minnesota 0 0 2 0
Northwestern 0 0 2 0
Penn State 0 0 2 0
Michigan State 0 0 1 1
Ohio State 0 0 1 1
Purdue 0 0 1 1
Illinois 0 0 1 1
Bis 'Ten Results
Michigan 38, Notre Dame 34
Central Mich. 29, Mich. St. 27
Southern Cal 18, Ohio State 15
Indiana 23, Western Mich. 19
Penn State 28, Syracuse 7
Iowa 35, Iowa State 3
Wisconsin 34, Fresno St. 31 (OT)
Oregon 38, Purdue 36
Illinois 35, Illinois St.17
Minnesota 20, Air Force 13

High expectations highlight Blue's first tournament

By NICK SPAR from last season's run to he played so well, and he's
Daily Sports Writer sophomore Matt Thompson's built some momentum for
show-stealing performance the beginning of this fall."
For the first time in over this weekend. After posting back-to-back
40 years, the Michigan men's At the two-day, 54-hole 69s, Thompson shot a career-
golf team came into the sea- Wolf Run Intercollegiate at best, four-under 67 in the third
son's first tournament with Wolf Run Country Club in round. He called it the bestgolf
high expectations. Zionsville, Ind., Thompson he ever remembers playing.
After an NCAA Final Four shot three-straight sub-70 Just as Thompson saved
berth last season and the rounds (69-69-67) en route his best for last, so did Michi-
team's first top-15 finish since to a third-place finish. His gan, who jumped five spots in
1968, No. 21 Michigan looked eight-under 205 is tied for the the final round to seal fourth
poised for another breakout second-lowest 54-hole score place. The Wolverines shot a
year. And for the first time in in Michigan history. 293 in the first round and a
program history, was ranked "Matt played fabulously," 294 in the second round, but
in the preseason top 25. Michigan coach Andrew finished strong with a 287
But the focus after yes- Sapp said. "He's coming off of yesterday. Big Ten rival and
terday's final round shifted a tremendous summer when No. 12 Illinois won the tour-

nament by 13 strokes.
"Going into the last round,
we knew that we had to make
a move," Thompson said. "I
knew we could play better (in
the first two rounds) than we
did on Saturday and we were
able to do that."
Given that the Wolverines
came into the event as the
defending champions, Sapp
was disappointed with the
fourth-place finish. But he was
pleased with how the team
responded in the final round,
especially with a new lineup.
Senior David Weisfeld,
who finished tied for 66th,

and freshmen Jack Schultz
and Rahul Bakshi, who fin-
ished 42nd and 47th, respec-
tively, all made their first
career collegiate starts.
Junior Alexander Sitompul, a
mainstay in Michigan's Final
Four run last spring, missed
the tournament due to a left
foot injury.
"Starting three people who
hadn't started before, includ-
ing two freshmen, you never
know what's going to hap-
pen," Sapp said. "The new
faces definitely contributed
and hopefully gained a lot of
good experience.


4B - September 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

-

MAIZE GAUGE The Michigan Daily footb
udges how emotional (pc
MESK-O-METER
3/ We saw just about everything on special teams, to say
the least. Michigan had a missed field goal, but sopho-
Zoltans more Darryl Stonum also returned a kickoff for a touch-
down. Mix in quarterbackTate Forcier's trick punt to
swing field position, and it was a solid showing overall.

all writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Mesk-o-Meter measures the success of special teams, the Rod-o-Meter
ositive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

ROD-O-METER
44 As soon as Rodriguez came to the podium, it was
obvious he was ina good mood. His first words were,
Rich Rods "Well that was fun." He continued tojoke about
everything from Tate brushing his teeth to how he
didn't feel bad for Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis.

HYPE-0-METER

4 The bar was set high against a MAC opponent last week,
/4 and the student section answered the call in a much bigger
Big Houses matchup. Everyone seems to love the piped in music - espe-
cially the White Stripes, for better or worse - though Satur-
day's ending probably could have done the job on its own.

I

LOOKING GOOD
SAIDALSALAH/Daily
WIDE RECEIVER GREG MATHEWS
Mathews should take LaTerryal Savoy out to
a nice dinner this week. Because of Savoy's
dropped touchdown pass, Mathews got his
chance to be the Big Man on Campus - and he
definitely took advantage of the opportunity.
He slanted inside, whipped back out and
made a tough, stretching catch to seal the
Wolverines' upset of the Fighting Irish.

FEELING BLUE

PI AY F THF CAMF

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
WIDE RECEIVER LATERRYAL SAVOY
Tate Forcier rolled out of the pocket, somehow
evaded the intense Notre Dame rush, flicked a pass
to an open receiver and ... well, Michigan fans had to
wait until the next play to celebrate, when Mathews
actually snagged the pass. Savoy should be kicking
himself until he gets another chance to impact
a game. But at least his teammates understand.
Sophomore Darryl Stonum said he felt for Savoy.

I

NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
I will tell you
what (wife Rita
Rodriguez) will do.
Probably from now
until next Saturday
she'll watch this
game on DVR about
35 times."
- Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez on
how the victory over Notre Dame will
affect him personally.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top 10 returns for its first installment this season. Each week,
Daily Sports staffers will fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points,
second-place votes receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with first-
place votes in parentheses.

1. FLORIDA (12): One of
the Daily writers was dumb
enough to pick Troy against
the 36-point spread. Oops.

6. MISSISSIPPI: Swine flu:
2, Rebels: 0. We'd take an
SEC matchup over one with
a pandemic any week.

y 2. TEXAS: Only 3,800 Texas 7. CALIFORNIA: Since when
fans attended Saturday's does the Pac-10 have two
game. You think they were legitimate contenders at the
out of their element? same time?

3. USC: So, Jim Tressel, a
freshman quarterback beat
you at home? We hear that
one Up North is heatingup.
4. ALABAMA: Who needs
receivers when your running
back leads the team in
receiving?Roll Tide Roll.

L

8. BYU: With 48,
unanswered points, who
knew Mormons had such
good luck in New Orleans?
9. LSU: Words of wisdom
from Les Miles: "I certainly
enjoyed the victory.
Winning is the key piece."
10. BOISE STATE: Miami
(Ohio) dominated time of
possession by 10 minutes,
but that was about it in its
48-0 loss.

S. PENN STATE: Who knew
that beating a team with a
point guard at quarterback
would gain you a spot in the °
top 10?

CSsF REEDER/Daily
Senior wide receiver Greg Mathews scores with 11 seconds remaining in the game.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily Football writers do their
best to predict what happens Michael Ruth . Courtney Andy
in the 2009 football season. Eisenstein Lincoln Ratkowiak Reid


Michigan (+3) vs. No.18 Notre Dame
No.1 Florida (-36) vs. Troy
No. 2 Texas (-33.5) at Wyoming
No. 3 USC (-6.5) at No.8Ohio State
No. 4 Alabama (-33.5) vs. Florida lnt'l
No. 5 Oklahoma St. (-15) vs. Houston
No. 7 Penn State (-28.5) vs. Syracuse
No.9 BYU (-17.5) at Tulane
No.l10California (NS) vs. E. Washington
No.11 LSU (-14.5) vs. Vanderbilt
No.12 Boise St. (-37) vs. Miami (Ohio)
No.13 Oklahoma (NS) vs. Idaho St
No.14 Virginia Tech (-19) vs. Marshall
No.15 Ga. Tech. (-5) vs Clemson
No.16 Texas Christian (-11) at Virginia
No.17 Utah (-13.5) at San Jose St.
No.19 UNC (-4) at Connecticut
No. 21 Georgia (-7) vs. South Carolina
No. 22Nebraska (-22.5) vs. Arkansas St.
No. 23 Cincinnati (NS) vs. SE Missouri
No. 24 Kansas(-13) at UTEP
No. 25 Missouri (-20) vs. Bowling Green
This Week (Overall)

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Southern Cal
Florida int'i
Oklahoma State
Syracuse
BYU
California
LSU
Miami (Ohio)
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Ga. Tech
Texas Christian
Utah
North Carolina
South Carolina
Nebraska
Cincinnati
Kansas
Missouri
13-9 (29-14)

Michigan
Troy
Wyoming
Southern Cal
Florida Int'l
Oklahoma State
Syracuse
BYU
California
LSU
Boise State
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Ga. Tech.
Texas Christian
Utah
North Carolina
Georgia
Nebraska
Cincinnati
UTEP
Bowling Green
13-9 (27-16)

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Southern Cal
Florida Intl
Oklahoma State
Syracuse
BYU
California
LSU
Miami (Ohio)
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Ga. Tech
Texas Christian
San Jose St.
Connecticut
Georgia
Nebraska
Cincinnati
Kansas
Missouri
14-8 (27-16)

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Southern Cal
Alabama
Oklahoma State
Penn State
BYU
California
LSU
Boise State
Oklahoma
Marshall
Ga. Tech
Texas Christian
Utah
North Carolina
Georgia
Nebraska
Cincinnati
Kansas
Missouri
10-12 (21-22)

Guest Picker:
Eitan ingall
Michigan
Florida
Wyoming
Southern Cal
Alabama
Oklahoma State
Syracuse
BYU
California
LSU
Miami (Ohio)
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Ga. Tech
Texas Christian
Utah
Connecticut
Georgia
Arkansas St.
Cincinnati
UTEP
Bowling Green
12-10 (26-17)

4

4

I

I


To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


