CIie Lid jig1an BaIVj

'NI

)._OM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, March 23, 2009

michigandaily.com

THE NUANCES OF NETWORKING
For GSIs, an
ethical puzzle
on Facebook
W ithout clear policy, Shaheen's policy of accepting stu-
dents' friend requests after the
'U' instructors form semester.
However, he voiced several
their own, ad hoc concerns about GSI-student inter-
actions outside of the classroom.
friendship rules "There are a myriad of concerns
that range from perceptions of
By JASMINE ZHU favoritism to outright inappropri-
Daily StaffReporter ate relationships," he said. "That
being said, I did tell my students
The question of whether or not that if they wanted to friend me I
to accept a student's Facebook would accept their requests after
friend request has been perplex- the semester."
ing GSIs since the social network- When asked if the University
ing website took off a few years had any central policy governing
ago. Facebook friendships between
But the lack of a clear, central professors, GSIs and students,
University policy regarding online John King, vice provost for aca-
relationships between faculty'and demic information, said "the short
students has forced GSIs to form answer is 'no.'
self-imposed, ad-hoc guidelines. King said that while he could
Many GSIs said they decline imagine circumstances in which
friend requests from students dur- social networking sites like Face-
ing the semester,but tend to accept bookcouldbeused for questionable
them after the semester ends. activity,Universityadministrators
While this policy remains unoffi- had not yet deemed it appropriate
cial at the University, it appears to to step in.
be a common practice across the "This University doesn't jump
many of the University's depart- on the opportunity to create poli-
ments. cies justbecause there is an issue,"
Jonathan Shaheen, a GSI in the he said.
Philosophy Department, said he He added that he had not yet
practices a policy of accepting stu- been made aware of any issues,
dents' friend requests only once though, he admitted, such cases
the term ends. wouldn't likely cross his desk.
"I would guess that the typical The concern of inappropri-
policy is to let students drive Face- ate relationships between GSIs
book interaction, and accept what- and their students is explicitly
ever they want," Shaheen said. addressed in the UM Faculty
A GSI in the Political Sci- Handbook.
ence Department, who wished According to Section 8.D.12 of
to remain anonymous because the handbook, which outlines per-
he was not permitted to discuss sonal relationshipsbetween facul-
department policy, also shared See FACEBOOK, Page 3A

0

(From left to right) Forward Manny Harris, coach John Beilein and guard David Merritt during Saturday's loss to Oklahoma. See SportsMonday for more on the game.
~~"he first step inatraon

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -
t's the ending to a story many
have been waiting more than
decade to tell.
It doesn't conclude during the
National Invitation Tournament or
the Big Ten Tournament.
It ends at the NCAA Tournament
second-round postgame press con-
ference with Michigan men's bas-
ketball coach John Beilein looking
slightly choked up and red in the
eyes.
It ends with Beilein laying a
reassuring right hand on the back
of junior forward DeShawn Sims
as his go-to big man made sense of
everything.

"We were a win away from the
Sweet 16," Sims said after No. 10
seed Michigan's
73-63 loss to No.
2 seed Oklaho-
ma on Saturday.
"It doesn't get
no sweeter than
that for a team
that finished
10-22 last year.".
Actually, it RUTH
didn't get any LINCOLN
sweeter for
many of last sea-
son's teams with 20 or more losses.
Of this year's 65 tournament
teams, Michigan had the worst

record last season. And just one
other 20-plus-loss team last season
- Radford - made this year's Big
Dance.
It's a turnaround no one outside
the Michigan locker room expect-
ed, but it can be the start of some-
thing bigger.
With their first tournament bid
since 1998, the Wolverines have set
the bar high. In the next few sea-
sons, this team has a special oppor-
tunity: to keep it there.
It's been so long since Michigan
was a tournament regular. From
1985 to 1998, the Wolverines missed
the NCAA Tournament just twice.
And this is the first decade since the

1960s Michigan hasn't reached the
Final Four.
In 1999, few made a fuss that for-
mer Michigan coach Brian Ellerbe's
team, which went 25-9 the previous
season, finished a dismal 12-19.
"I'm more than satisfied with the
job Brian has done," then-Athletic
Director Tom Goss told the Detroit
Free Press in March 1999. "I've
seen the kids' skills develop, and
he's gotten them to play hard every
night. Brian's going to be a good
coach over time. In my view, he's
going to be one of the finest coaches
we have here at Michigan."
But the Ellerbe era proved to be
See BASKETBALL, Page 7A


MSA V. GIBRAN BAYDOUN
Baydoun charges

For former MSA pres.
candidate, campus
judiciary rules trial is
enough punishment
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
All charges brought against for-
mer Michigan Student Assembly
presidential candidate Gibran Bay-
doun were dropped Friday after the
judicial branch of the University's
student government determined
that having to go through the trial
process was punishment enough.

MSA's Central Student Judiciary
Chief Justice Daniel Horowitz, a
Law School student, said Baydoun,
an LSA junior, should consider the
"strong words" he received from
the three justices trying him and
the concerns from his classmates as
his penalty.
Baydoun, who was chair of the
Homecoming Committee, was
accused of inappropriately hold-
ing onto the $2,527.42 raised for
University of Michigan Dance
Marathon during homecoming last
October for about five months and
of depositing the funds into his per-
sonal checking account.
If a fundraiser collects more than
$500, the money must be depos-

dropped
ited into a MSA account within one
business day of the event, according
to MSA Treasurer Lisa Averill.
On behalf of MSA, Student Gen-
eral Counsel Michael Benson, a
Rackham Graduate School student,
filed a case against Baydoun with
CSJ, calling for the justices to pro-
hibit him from being an authorized
signer for an MSA-registered orga-
nization and to charge him with a
$50 fine. The trial was held Friday
at 5 p.m. in the Union.
During the hearing, Baydoun
admitted to holding onto the money
and depositing it in his bank account.
Because of a robbery in his build-
ing during homecoming week, Bay-
See BAYDOUN, Page 3A

PROGRAMMING WHAT'S NEXT
At Hack U, students get a break

ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
Dancers perform during the last hour of the 30-hour Dance Marathon event yesterday in the Indoor Track and Field Building.
Dancing in a down economy

Engineering students
compete in 24-hour
contest to produce
the next 'it' product
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
You have 24 hours to design a
new computer program or phone
application. Get started.
These were the instructions
given to 20 engineering students
last Friday at the Computer Science

and Engineering Building. The stu-
dents were taking part in Hack U, a
24-hour competition sponsored by
Yahoo! that challenges college stu-
dents across the country to design
new technologies, or hacks.
This is the first time Hack U has
come to the University of Michigan
since the competition started three
years ago.
Evan Goer, Yahoo! community
manager and developer, said Hack
U gives students "the chance to
take an idea and run with it."
"We want them to actually create
an interesting prototype," Goersaid,
"dive into an interesting product

and just build that hack in an envi-
ronment where they have people
around them from (the) industry.
"We bring superstar engineers
around to the college campuses,
and they're able to talk very bluntly
to student audiences about what
different Web technology can do
for you," he said.
Goer was referring to engi-
neers like Rasmus Lerdorf, Yahoo!
employee and inventor of PHP - a
computer language for Web pages
- who lectured in College of Engi-
neering classes the week leading up
to the event.
See HACK U, Page 3A

Dance Marathon captains in bright pink shirts led
the group from the stage located at
reports fundraising the front of the room, their move-
ments wild and sporadic.
numbers slightly dip University of Michigan Dance
Marathon had just begun.
By JASMINE ZHU For 30 hours - from early Satur-
Daily StaffReporter day morning to Sunday afternoon
-- - students from across campus
Saturday morning at 10 a.m., stood on their feet to raise money
C+C Music Factory's "Gonna Make and awareness for pediatric reha-
You Sweat (Everybody Dance bilitation programs at C.S. Mott
Now)" blared out of the loudspeak- Children's Hospital at the Uni-
ers in the Indoor Track Building versity and Beaumont Hospital in
on South Campus. Royal Oak, Mich.
Multicolored lights flashed The marathon, now in its 12
above approximately 800 students year, has grown from a small
who gathered for the event. Morale group of 30 students in 1997 to a

major student-run nonprofit orga-
nization. Last year the event raised
approximately $428,000.
This year the organization
raised $388,134, a number UMDM
Executive Director Mike Spada-
fore said is incredible in this econ-
omy.
"I'm 100 percent proud of every-
thing we've been able to accom-
plish this year," Spadafore said.
"Due to some economic times, it's
been impacting everybody. But
we're extremely proud.
"Most of our focus (is) helping
these kids," he said. "Everyone is
in need in these economic times."
She DANCE MARATHON,,Page 7A


WEATHER HI 55
TOMORROW LU4

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Former 'U' baseball player to start for White Sox
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS .............:.................2A CLASSIFIEDS .. . . A........6A
Vol CXIX, No. 14 DOPINION ........................4A MORE CAMPUS NEW S........7A
0209 The Michigan Daily ARTS.....A SPDRTSMDNDAY.
oichioailp.com A T ................. A S O T M N A .....,...1

h


2A - Monday, March 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily michigandaiiy.com

2A - Monday, March 23, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Cornell's Dragon Day parade goes green

DEMANDING DRUG REFORM

Cornell University's Dragon Day
parade was anlittle different this year,
The Cornell Daily Sun reported.
Dragon Day, which is a 108-
year tradition at Cornell, usually
involves architecture students
dressed in costumes marching
a giant dragon creation through
Cornell's campus and then setting
it on fire.
This year, the New York State
Department of Environmental
Conservation enforced a new regu-
lation that prohibited the burning
of toxic materials like the paint and
glue the students used to construct
the dragon.
To cope with the new regulation,
the students decided to burn the
dragon's nest instead, which they
built out of lumber and hay.
"I wish (the parade) wasn't as reg-
ulated as it was this year," said Joe
DeSense, a Cornell fifth-year stu-
dent, in the Cornell Daily Sun article.
"It used to be a lot freer in the past."
CRIME NOTES

IRAQ WAR ANNIVERSARY
BRINGS OUT PROTESTERS
The sixth anniversary ofthe Iraq
War was met with opposition on
University of California at Berke-
ley's campus last week, The Daily
Californian reported.
Several protesters sprayed red
paint on the Berkeley Marine
Recruitment Center and broke the
building's windows.
In addition to the vandalism,
about 70 people gathered to dem-
onstrate their opposition to the war
outside the center last Thursday.
The demonstrators said they
were not responsible for the dam-
age done to the building.
"We don't break windows, we're
not violent," anti-war protester
Zanne Joi said in the article. "We
abhor violence."
Berkeley City Council member
Kriss Worthington said violence is
not a good way to protest the war.
"Smashingwindows is not protest,

it's stupidity," Worthington said in
the article. "It's counterproductive."
RELAY FOR LIFE FUNDS MISUSED
AT AMERICAN UNIVERSITY
Some of the $24,000 raised at
American University's Relay for
Life event will be used to repair
vandalism caused at the event, The
Eagle reported.
Three stall dividers in the men's
restroom in Bender Arena, where
the fundraiser took place, were torn
down duringthe event last weekend.
Currently, there are no suspects,
and officials are not sure how much
it will cost to repair the damage.
Relay for Life coordinator Julie
Rinehart said in the article that it's a
shame the group will not be able to
give the full amountofmoney itraised
to the American Cancer Society.
"These people took money away
that saves lives," she said in the
article.
- - STEPHANIE STEINBERG

SAD ALSALAH/Daily
Chris Chiles, executive director of the University's chapter of
Students for Sensible Drug Policy, demonstrated on Friday to
protest the death of Derek Copp, who was shot in a drug raid.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA ELAINABUGLI
Editor is Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:sun.-Thurs.uo a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-24s9
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaiy.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaiiy.com
Arts Section arts@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaiy.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitzManagingNewsEditor smilovito@michigandaily.com
SERNEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
dye Swanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIAT E EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel VanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGR EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
STANTOSE D TORS:Ryan Karje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Prspei,oltiRonwe,ig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor warnick@michigandaity.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,WhitneyPow
ASSISTANTARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer,AndrewLapin,DaveReap,BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandailycom
Cif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin, Sam Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Meian MultimediatEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboerDisplayAdvertisingsalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel'
Newman,ChristiePhillips
Ryan BUsinski Classified salesManager
lassified Sales AssistantM anager:Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceManagers
The Michigan Daily (155N0745-967)is published Mondaythrough Fridayduringthe fallandwinter
terms by students at the University of Michigan,ne opy isavailablefree orchargeto allreaders.
Additionalcopiesmay be pickedupattheaily'sofficefor2.Subscriptionsforfalland wintrerm
(SeperntrohArlviaU.S. mail:aret200.vYear-rundubsriptons (Fall, Wrnrprngnd
Summerissuel)ar225.Subls oorriion t aTpre aidTeiciaDlynsmem berfT
Associated Pressand The AssociatdCol aeress.

a

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES


Purse snatched
from cafe
WHERE: Palmer Commons
WHEN: Friday at about 6:30
p.m.
WHAT: A purse belonging to
a female employee of the Glass
House Cafe was stolen between
3 p.m. and5 p.m., University
Police reported. The purse con-
tained debit cards, credit cards
and cash.

iPod stolen

The meaning of

from hospital friendship

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday at about 11 a.m.
WHAT: An iPod belonging to a
hospital staff member was stolen
from the registry clinic, Univer-
sity Police reported.
Cell phone and

WHAT: A presentation
about BUILD, a program that
improves the lives of people
with mental disabilities by
providing opportunities for
leadership development and
self advocacy.
WHO: Best Buddies
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Palmer Commons,
Forum Hall

Laptop stolen in wallet stolen .
Grad Libra fWho wibe the
Grad Lbrary from South Quad nxMrGek


CORRECTIONS
" A news article in last
Friday's edition of the Daily
(Baydoun cargedyfor impro-
prieties, 03/20/2009) inac-
curately identified Michael
Benson as the Michigan
Student Assembly General
Council. He is the Michigan
Student Assembly General
Counsel.
* A news article in last
Friday's edition of the Daily
(Students lobby regentsfor
freeze in the University's
tuition rates, 0"20/2009)
inaccurately reported that
the Ross School of Business
Student Government and
the Residence Hall Asso-
ciation had passed resolu-
tions supporting measures
proposed by Stop The Hike.
Those groups' resolutions
are currently under con-
sideration and have not yet
been passed.
1 Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

President Barack Obama
will give three commence-
ment speeches in May, The
Associated Press reported.
Obama will speak at Arizona
State University May 13, the
University of Notre Dame May
17 and the United States Naval
Academy May 22.
2AmeriCorps will triple
its number of positions
to 225,000 service posi-
tions. The education stipend
that is provided for student
volunteers in AmeriCorps
will also increased. These
measures are expected to cost
the government $6 billion in
the next five years.
sPOR MORE SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3A group of eight tour-
ists from America and
England were the first
people to visit Iraq since the
United States invaded in 2003,
MSNBC reported. The major-
ity of museums and monu-
ments the group wanted to
see during the two-week visit
were shutdown from the war.

0

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Saturday at about 7:20
p.m.
WHAT: A Toshiba laptop
belonging to a male student
was stolen from the fourth
floor of the library, University
Police reported. The laptop
was left unattended and is esti-
mated to be valued at approxi-
mately $2,800.

WHERE: South Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Friday at about 9:25
p.m."
WHAT: A female student
reported the theft of her cell
phone and wallet from the
employee lounge, University
Police reported. The wallet
contained credit cards and $100
in cash.

WHAT: A male pageant
show for Greek Week. Tick-
ets cost $6 if purchased in
advance at the Michigan
Union Ticket Office or $7 at
the event.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts

U

f T T I

CEN'

-.000

UIVIL OFF-CAMPUS
TRAL MICHIGAN PROGRAMS
UNIVERSITY
 0 iaoe

Clinton Townshi
Dearborn
Flint
Grand Rapids.
Lansing
Livonia
Saginaw
Southfi'eld
Traverse City
Troy

With summer classes from Central Michigan University
Off-Campus Programs, you can still go home, sleep in late,
get a job, and have time for your friends.
It's all about quality and convenience.
Attend a Michigan center near you for a great face-to-face
CMU experience, or take an online course wherever you
want (fuzzy bunny slippers optional).


Warren
Online bachelor's and master's courses or
face-to-face classes at 12 CMU Centers

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 23, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, March 23, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
BAD AXE, Mich.
DTE sees 280 wind
turbines in Thumb's
Huron County
The skyline in Michigan's rural
Thumb could look a bit like historic
Holland a few years down the road
under DTE Energy Co.'s announced
plan to install 125 wind turbines in
Huron County by 2015 - and 280
within two decades.
DTE Energy officials told Huron
County commissioners the com-
pany must add 1,200 megawatts
of green power to meet the state's
new energy mandate. State rules
require utilities to provide 10 per-
cent of electricity from renewable
sources by 2015.
The Huron County wind tur-
bines eventually could provide 4
percent to 4.5 percent of the com-
pany's total power, DTE says.
The Detroit-based utility now
generates about 1 percent of its
power from renewable energy
sources, said Grady Nance, manag-
er of DTE Energy Renewable Ener-
gy Development. He said DTE's
goal is to have about 3 percent of its
electricity generated from renew-
able energy sources by 2012.
BAY CITY, Mich.
15-year-old Michigan
boy dies after being
Tasered by police
Police in Michigan say a 15-year-
old boy has died after being Tasered
by officers who were trying to break
up a fight.
Police didn'trelease his name and
say state police are investigating.
A Bay City police news release
says officers answered a report of
an early morning fight on Sunday.
The statement says two males were
arguing in an apartment, and one of
them "attempted to fight the offi-
cers."
Police say officers Tasered him,
and his reaction led them to imme-
diately call for emergency medical
help. He was pronounced dead at
Bay Regional Medical Center.
TORONTO
Chrysler, CAW start
concessions talks
The Canadian Auto Workers
union said it plans to begin talks
today with Chrysler LLC on pos-
sible worker concessions.
Automakers seeking Canadian
federal and Ontario provincial gov-
ernment support must reach cost-
cutting agreements before March
31 to qualify for the money.
The CAW reached a deal with
General Motors Corp. on March 8,
and workers ratified it March 11.
"Getting to the bargaining table
with Chrysler has taken longer
than expected," union President
Ken Lewenza said in a statement.
"But the CAW fully expects to get
the process back on track and work
towards reaching an agreement
with Chrysler that will secure jobs
here in Canada."
In a statement, Chrysler said,
"We look forward to a constructive

dialogue with the CAW as we enter
this important phase of our discus-
sions."
The Canadian union has said it
wants Chrysler and Ford Motor
Co. to agree to the same terms. But
Chrysler and Ford have said the
GM worker concessions don't go far
enough to make them competitive.
CAPE CANAVERAL Fla.
Space shuttle moves
to avoid space junk
Confronted with orbiting junk
again, NASA ordered the astronauts
aboard the linked space station and
shuttle Discovery to move out of the
way of a piece of debris yesterday.
Discovery's pilots fired their
ship's thrusters to reorient the two
spacecraft and thereby avoid a small
piece from a 10-year-old Chinese
satellite rocket motor that was due
to pass uncomfortably close during
Monday's planned spacewalk.
Mission Control said keeping the
spacecraft in this position for about
three hours -with Discovery's belly
facing forward - would result in a
slow, natural drag of about a foot per
second, enough to get the complex
out of the way of the 4-inch piece of
junk.
Space junk has been a recurring
problem for the space station, espe-
cially recently. Earlier this month,
the three space station residents
had to take shelter in their emergen-
cy getaway capsule when another
piece of orbital debris seemed like it
might come too close.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

FACEBOOK
From Page 1A
ty and students," ... as a matter of
sound judgment and professional
ethics, faculty members have a
responsibility to avoid any appar-
ent or actual conflict between
their professional responsibilities
and personal relationships with
students."
GSI Charles Gentry, the
staff organizer for the Gradu-
ate Employees' Organization,
explained that while relation-
ships outside of the classroom are
generally frowned upon, they are
by no means prohibited.
"This policy in no way prohib-
its interpersonal relationships,
but 'strongly discourages roman-
tic and/or sexual relationships
between faculty members and
students,' and explicitly limits
supervisory roles to avoid con-
flicts of interest.", Gentry said,
citing guidelines in the UM Fac-
ulty Handbook.
However, Gentry said the poli-
cy doesn't directly address online
relationships between GSIs and
students.
"This (policy) does not seem to
apply to friend or group invites on
Facebook, or other online social
networking communities," Gen-
try said.
King explained that the main
reason no such policy exists
is because the administration
doesn't "want to make any rules
about communication between
anybody in the University that
would have a chilling effect on
reasonable communication" -
such as school work, the football
team or a political race.
BAYDOUN
From Page 1A
doun said he wanted to put the
money in his bank account for
safekeeping while he went away
for the weekend. He said he kept
all the singles and change - about
$482 - ina container in his room
and put the remaining money in
his checking account.
Baydoun was also in charge of
depositing the money raised from
homecoming in 2007, which CSJ
determined meant he knew the
funds should have been deposited
within onebusiness day. Baydoun
said he was not aware of the one
business day deadline, and that
he had planned to turn over the
money by the start of the UMDM
event held.this past weekend.
Baydoun said he procrastinated,
buthad everyintention of donating
the money to UMDM. He said no
one asked him for the money prior
to the Sunday before the trial.
When Averill realized the
money was not yet donated to
UMDM, she set last Monday
morning as a deadline for the
money to be submitted - a dead-
line Baydoun did not meet.
Baydoun did not return the
money until the MSA Executive
Board pressured him to do so and
an e-mail from Student Affairs
Program Manager and MSA
Adviser Anika Awai-Williams
notified him that he would face
severe repercussions if he did not

Inantacademic setting, it is
important for communication to
remain open, King said, adding
that the inappropriate interac-
tions are what should be dealt
with, not the medium in which
they take place.
"The issue is the relationship,
not Facebook," he said. "Our bias
is not to shut down the communi-
cations. Our bias is to deal with
the behavior."
LSA freshman Rebecca Round-
tree thinks that relationships
between GSIs and students -
both online and offline - are a
non-issue.
"(GSIs) are students just like
us," Roundtree said. "We call
them by a first-name basis, so
why shouldn't we be friends with
them?"
LSA junior Nathan Hembroff
said he shares mutual friends with
some of his GSIs, and as a result,
he'll sometimes go out to bars with
his GSIs, or see them at parties.
"It's fun to go out (with GSIs)
and then there isn't that social
barrier," Hembroff said. "It's a
much more friendly environment
to interact on a non-educational
level. It opens a dialogue in class
when you're on a more interactive
level."
Engineering junior David
Juenemann said that students'
friending GSIs on Facebook.com
could be a potentially awkward
situation.
"I guess it could be seen as a
conflict on interests," Juenemann
said. "But that's not that big of a
deal."
- Daily Managing News
Editor Jacob Smilovitz
contributed to this report.
return the money bythat Wednes-
day morning, which he did.
. To make up for any interest that
may have accumulated while the
money was in his bank account
and to compensate for any pos-
sible discrepancies in the amount
of money raised, Baydoun wrote
UMDM personal a check for $500.
At the end of the trial, CSJ ordered
MSA, which had been holding onto
the $500 check until the event, to
return it to Baydoun because MSA
President Sabrina Shingwani veri-
fied the amount of money Baydoun
returned was correct.
Baydoun said that in retrospect
he realized he did not handle
the funds as he should have and
that he felt badly for keeping the
money for so long.
"I feel like this was not in keep-
ing with the standard that I held
for myself," Baydoun said.
Benson said he was satisfied
with the trial's results.
"I think CSJ found for MSA,
but at the same point did not do
irreparable harm to (Baydoun);"
he said. "He has done great work
for MSA in the past. This was just
a lapse in judgment. He made a big
mistake, but there was no malice."
After all was said and fone,
Baydoun said he was just happy
the trial was over.
"I think it's clear from the rul-
ing that there was no intentional
wrongdoing or malfeasance on
my part," he said. "I'm glad that
it was taken care of and that the
CSJ trial showed that."

Children among 17 dead
in Montana plane crash

Plane crashes in
cemetery 500 feet
from destination
BUTTE, Mont. (AP) - A small
plane - possibly carrying children
on a ski trip - crashed Sunday as it
approached the Butte airport, kill-
ing 14 to 17 people aboard, a federal
official said. The single engine tur-
boprop nose-dived into a cemetery
500 feet from its destination.
The aircraft crashed and burned
while attempting to land, said
Federal Aviation Administration
spokesman Mike Fergus. The plane
crashed in Holy Cross Cemetery.
An investigator with the Nation-
al Transportation Safety Board
offered few details at a press con-
ference in Butte Sunday night. No
cause of the crash was given.
"We are just beginning our investi-
gation," said Kristi Dunks. "We don't
have alotofinformationatthistime.
"Certain family members were
contacted," she said. "At this point,
HACK U
From Page 1A
Lerdorf and other Yahoo! engi-
neers were made available to help
students during the competition.
When students work on projects
like the ones in the competition,
Lerdorf said there's usually no one
around to help them when they run
into roadblocks, which isn't the
case with students in Hack U.
"When we have engineers stand-
ing right here over their shoulder
getting them unstuck, it becomes
a very intense 24-hour session
where they keep banging away at
it," Lerdorf said.
LSA junior Majd Taby and Engi-
neering junior Bryan Summersett,
who created a location-based alarm
for cell phones, stayed awake for 35
hours to build their hack. Instead
of an alarm set for a specific time,
their application sends a text mes-
sage reminder to the phone based
on its geographical location.
"Lets say you're traveling on a
long-distance trip, and you want
to remember to take your pass-

I don't have an exact number."
Dunks would not say if there had
been a distress call from the pilot.
It was partly cloudy, the visibility
was 10 feetand winds were blowing
from the northwest around 10 mph
at the time of the crash, according
to hourly temperature information
from the National Weather Service.
The aircraft had departed from
Oroville, Calif., and the pilot had filed
a flight plan showing a destination of
Bozeman, about 85 miles southeast
of Butte. But the pilot canceled his
flight plan at some point and headed
for Butte, Fergus said.
Preliminary reports indicate the
dead include numerous children,
he said.
"We think that it was probably a
ski trip for the kids," Fergus said.
Butte Silver-Bow Sheriff John
Walsh said there were a few people
at the cemetery at the time of the
crash, but no one on the ground
was injured. He would not describe
witness reports.
"I heard a loud bang," said Nick
Dipasquale, 19, who was working
port," Taby said. "When you leave
the house, it will send you a text
reminding you to take it."
Other hacks developed in the
competition included a program
that reads e-mails to you by call-
ing a number over the phone and
a system that sends a text to your
cell phone with the number of
parking spots left in a specific
parking lot.
Goer said the real benefit of
competitions like Hack U is that
it allows students to escape from
their day-to-day routines.
"Computer science majors and
engineers get lots of homework,
and they have to study, and they do
all these tests," Goer said. "Taking
them into this 24-hour pizza-, cola-
fueled hack event breaks them out of
that environment and allows them
to collaborate with students that
theymightnotinteractwithnormal-
ly and think about problems in ways
that they might not ordinarily do."
University alum Chris Yeh, head
of Yahoo!'s developer network, said
Yahoo! sometimes hires students
it finds at Hack U competitions,
pointing out that many of the skills

at a gas.station across the street.
"It sounded like someone ran into
the building."
He said he ran outside to see
flames as tall as the trees.
Dipasquale said people who
were fueling their cars said they
saw the plane flying low, begin a
turn, start to wobble and then slam
into the ground.
Fergus said the Pilatus PC-12
aircraft was manufactured in 2001.
Such planes are certified to carry
12 people.
The plane was registeredrto Eagle
Cap Leasing Inc. in Enterprise,
Ore., Fergus said. He didn't know
who was operating the plane.
I. Felkamp is listed in Oregon
corporate records as Eagle Cap's
president. Attempts to reach him
by phone were unsuccessful.
The flight originated at Brown
Field Municipal airport in San
Diego on Saturday evening and
flew to Redlands, Calif., where it
left Sunday morning for Vacaville,
Calif., according to Flight Aware, a
Web site that tracks air traffic.
students use to build hacks are the
same skills Yahoo! employees need
for Web development.
"That's one of the reasons why
we love being here," Yeh said.
"Because it gives us the chance to
know some students."
LSA senior Brandon Kwaselow
took first place and will advance to
the International University Hack
Days competition in Sunnyvale,
Calif. this summer.
His winning hack - an iPhone
application that uses Yahoo! maps -
can be used to find places of interest
like restaurants, parks and schools.
While Kwaselow said he was
thrilled to receive first place after
working on the hack for 24 hours
straight, Kwaselow said the first
thing he was going to do was take
a long nap.
Lerdorf said despite the fact that
it's a competition, winning Hack U
"isn't all that important."
"The point is to get the students
thinking about Web technologies
and getting them out of the aca-
demic routine a little bit," he said.
"To take some of all this knowledge
and apply it and build something."


GOT A NEWS TIP?
E-MAIL
NEWS@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Series of free student workshops

* Wednesday, March 25, Landing a Job in a Difficult Economy
" Wednesday, April 1, Your Fork Is Not a Shovel: A Lesson in
Business Etiquette
All sessions are from 6-8 p.m., are free and include
dinner. Register now! Space is limited so make sure
'you register early.
www.umalumni.com/students

Thanks to our sponsors:
Liberty CRE)IT
Mut:.LVLINIONO

ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


A


(.

4A - Monday, March 23, 2009

)pinion

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7 1C 44 i tgan Batl
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor MS 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
FROM THE DAILY
Joining ObamaCorps
Studentsshould accept responsibility of community service
President John F. Kennedy's famous words, "Ask not what
your country can do for you, but what you can do for your
country," are still relevant 50 years later. The House recent-
ly passed the Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Educa-
tion Act, which focuses on improving education, green energy and
health care through community service programs - specifically,
the federal service organization AmeriCorps. While the U.S. Sen-
ate should work quickly to pass similar legislation, called the Serve
America Act, currently under consideration, students should rec-
ognize the value of community service in a time when communi-
ties threaten to buckle under economic stress.


0

The GIVE Act, which was passed by the
House on Thursday, will expand the Ame-
riCorps program significantly and increase
education stipends. AmeriCorps will be
expanded to 225,000 service positions,
an increase of 300 percent. The education
stipend provided for student volunteers in
AmeriCorps will also increase to $5,350,
the same amount as the maximum Pell
Grant. This is expected to cost the govern-
ment $6 billion in the next five years. The
bill is also proposing that Sept. 11 be made a
national day of service, though it would not
be a national holiday.
Most importantly, the bill aims to use
community service initiatives to improve
three areas that President Barack Obama
has repeatedly stressed: education, green
energy and health care. Though the fed-
eral government, under Obama's guidance,
has recognized its responsibility to solve
these issues, these three areas aren't just
important because Obama says so - they
are critical for reviving the nation's slowly
sinking economy and diminishing condi-
tions of poverty. Because the act is focused
on pressing issues, this new initiative is a
good way to encourage people to volunteer
in local communities.
Education in underprivileged commu-

nities is one way to bridge socioeconomic
gaps and is vital to redirect manufacturing-
based economies not only in Michigan, but
also nationally. In the same vein, progress in
alternative energy technology will open up
a booming industry that protects the envi-
ronment. And, of course, improving health
care services are vital for solving issues that
underprivileged families continuously face.
The Senate needs to support the House's
bill to make sure these projects become
a reality. But the government's efforts to
support community service won't amount
to much unless students take advantage of
them. The expansion of AmeriCorps is a
prime opportunity for students to give back.
While the economy struggles, students are
among the few groups of people with the
time and opportunity to serve. And while
students should always heed the call to ser-
vice, what's also true is that service may
now be more viable for many students than
getting a job after graduation.
Creating a national day of service is a
nice gesture, but no one should be waiting
around for an official call to go help suf-
fering communities. Students especially
should take it upon themselves to make giv-
ing back a priority, regardless of whether
it's timely or not.

The least I can say is that he's a poor ignoramus."
- Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez, commenting on President Obama's allegation
that Chavez is responsible for exporting terrorism, as reported yesterday by CNN.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI T T PAT E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOLOW@UMICH.EDU
Noooo My brcked! I thoet Barack ek I
es BUaTe! thoi work JlsagWho Makes the Best Picks for
Mmeto C seld teD'the NCAA Tournament?
\Wy WakeFores w?V O.LL 6 IBosmwn Colee?J Youi
& QBaby'with
0 C
0 0 SPN
0 0 ®0b Analyst Baywh
" ~~BaywihCa o
Cra . r
Taxation frustration
I always tell my students that the half is a tangled thicket of provisions If you don't have health insurance,
best way to learn about American collectively known as tax expendi- can't afford to contribute to a retire-
public policy is to do their own tures. Once you hire a jungle guide ment plan and can't afford to buy your
taxes every year. or an accountant to take a machete own home, you don't see a dime in
Filling out your to the torturous language, you'll find benefits from these programs, which
own tax forms a bunch of goodies that let you pay cost the Treasury Department rough-
shows you what fewer taxes. Three of the most com- ly $300 billion last year.
our society's pri- mon goodies are deductions, exemp-
orities are and tions and tax credits.
precisely how your In general, deductions and exemp-
personal income tions allow you to reduce the amount W hy the rich get
is going to fund of your income that is subject to tax,
it. If you don't pay while credits directly reduce the tax off too easy when
attention to those PATRICK you owe.
debates, the people O'MAHEN Collectively, these tax expendi- it comes to taxes.
who do - and their tures reduced federal revenues by
lobbyists - will be $800 billion last fiscal year, according
more than happy to the Tax Policy Center.
to rewrite those laws to their benefit Guess what? That $800 billion dis- Now, one can argue that some of
and your detriment, proportionately goes to the wealthy. these programs help middle and low-
If you're interested in justice, or Perhaps the most egregious exam- income people to buy their own home
just getting your fair share of deduc- ple is the Bush-era cuts on dividends or save for retirement. That's true, but
tions, take your federal 1040EZ or and other capital gains. Since few because of high or non-existent caps
1040A forms and follow me as we Americans directly own stock, gener- on the benefit, they tend to provide
plunge into the fascinating world of ally only people in the top one tenth much greater benefits to a Manhattan
federal fiscal policy. of one percent of tax payers have banker writing off interest payments,
one of the first things you notice is to worry about dividends. In 2005, on his $5 million townhouse than a
that federal income tax rates are pro- Political Scientist LarryBartels noted Detroit family who just purchased a
gressive - wealthy individuals pay a that taxpayers earning $1 million or $55,000 home.
greater proportion of their income in more a year paid more than half of Worse still, most of these programs
tax than poor people do. In 2008, the the tax on dividends. Yet Bush's cuts are only deductions or non-refund-
first $8,950 a single adult taxpayer on dividend taxes and capital gains in able tax credits, which means that
earns is non-taxable. Above that, you combination with previously existing only individuals who would other-
pay taxes at steadily increasing rates deductions cost $48.6 billion a year. wise have scads of taxable income
as your income increases. Currently, The result? can take advantage of them. If I only
the lowest tax bracket is 10 percent In 2003, Investor Warren Buffett earn $20,000 a year, I can only take
and the highest is 35 percent. noted that Bush's changes would have $20,000 in deductions, whileif I eari
One major effect of President left him paying three percent of his $200,000, I can take $200,000 in
George W. Bush's tax cuts was to cut income in taxes, in comparison to his deductions. One notably progressive
rates. Until 2001, federal income tax secretary, who paid 30 percent of her exception to this rule is the Earned-
brackets ranged from 15 percent to 39 income. Income Tax Credit, which allows
percent. After that, all taxpayers saw That thump you just heard was the low-income taxpayers to get money
declines in their tax rates. In 2002, I increasing tax burden and cuts in gov- back beyond their tax liability.
saved $338. ernment services falling on the medi- So the next time you have the
Thanks, George. I'll buy you an an-income household, which only opportunity to do your taxes, take
O'Doul's the next time I'm in Dallas. makes about $46,000 a year. it. Wading through those deductions
or maybe he should buy me dinner But it gets worse. lines and instructions might seemlike
- because not only did the rate cuts The top three deductions, accord- a frustrating waste of time, but it's
benefit the wealthy, but his other tax ing to the Tax Policy Center, are worth it to gain an understanding of
policies also helped individuals who employer-provided health-insurance, who benefits from U.S. fiscal policy.
needed it least. contributions to 401k and traditional
Tax brackets are only the straight- Individual Retirement Account plans - Patrick O'Mahen can be
forward half of the story. The other and deductions on home interest. reached at pomahen@umich.edu.
An amateur at the Big Dance

40

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy!Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
NICOLE PREMO ,EWP01NT
Preventing the hike

I
I

Last Thursday, students supporting the "Stop
the Hike" initiative met with the Regents to
plead their case. Their proposal is simple - stop
increasing tuition. While the idea sounds appeal-
ing to undergraduate students, the proposal is as
implausible as it is shortsighted. The University
must adjust its tuition costs to grapple with the
effects of inflation and decreasing state fund-
ing. But the Center for Education Policy within
the Roosevelt Institution - a student-run think
tank and public policy group on campus - pro-
poses a one-year moratorium on tuition hikes.
This would allow students, faculty, regents and
experts to collaborate on the best way to deal
with tuition in the long run.
There is no denying that a University of Michi-
gan degree is becomingmore and moreexpensive.
Just last year, both in-state and out-of-state stu-
dents saw a 7.4 percent increase in tuition costs.
The increase is representative of a larger trend
- tuition has increased 47 percent since 2002.
But the overarching hike does not come without
rationale. As. state appropriations decline, the
University has to use alternative methods of gen-
erating immediate capital. Consequently, student
tuition has become the source of an increasingly
large proportion of the University's general fund,
reaching a high of 62 percent in 2007.
While a pragmatic approach is necessary, the
University and its budget committees must rec-
ognize that an indefinite tuition hike is absurd.
By continuing to shift the burden onto students,
the University will only delay actually dealing
with the issues that make the hike necessary.
Instead, the University can better serve its
students and its own long-term, self-sustaining
goals simultaneously by instating a moratorium
on tuition hikes for the 2009-2010 academic year.
The University could use this fiscal year to reas-
sess its economic policies in light of forthcoming
developments such as stimulus package money,
possible economic upturn and market develop-

ment.
Kim Dancy, co-director of the Roosevelt Cen-
ter for Education Policy, advocated for the mora-
torium in a policy brief presented to the regents
during their Thursday meeting. In addition to
arguing that ever-increasing tuition is not a
responsible budget strategy, the proposal out-
lined the broader socioeconomic context of the
issue and the burden it imposes on students and
their families. In her brief, she argued, "With
the highest unemployment rate in the nation for
January (11.6 percent), it is clear that economic
decline has hit hard, making the prospect of
entering or continuing a degree program unat-
tainable for many individuals."
"Despite 'risks associated with such a poli-
cy," she wrote, "it is in the best interests of the
majority of University students to maintain a
climate of academic distinction and diverse stu-
dent population."
The proposed one-year tuition increase mora-
torium presents aunique opportunity for collabo-
ration between the administration and students.
The University should reassess tuition increase
as the answer to fulfilling budget benchmarks.
Rather than spendingthe year with other budget
officers developing a new plan that yet again asks
the students to make up for that which the state
can no longer provide, the budget officers and
regents should spend the year with students, pol-
icy makers and state representatives to figure out
long-term solutions to maintaining and improv-
ing access to higher education in Michigan.
It is the responsibility of the University as an
institution to address this economic difficulty in
new and innovative ways. And it is long past time
to throw out the old, shortsighted tuition hike
solution for the sake of long-term budget sustain-
ability.
Nicole Premo is co-director of the
Roosevelt Center for Education Policy.

used to appreciate sports
more. I had a varsity jacket
in high school, practically
collected Under
Armor workout
gear and was able
to name a handful
of professional ath-
letes. You'd hardly
know it from the -
confused look on
my face as I some-
how found myself MEG
watching Thurs- YOUNG
day's NCAA Tour-
nament games.
When I got to
the University, one of the first things
I did was buy season football tickets.
I even managed to sit through the
entire Appalachian State game last
year. But that hardly lasted.
By October, Michigan sports
became eerie to me. On football
Saturday mornings, with the entire
town wearing matching T-shirts,
"Hail to the Victors" sounded like a
national anthem and the marching
band seemed surreal and nationalis-
tic, like a Soviet demonstration. Sur-
rounded by my classmates singing
the fight song, I didn't understand
what we were fighting for. Why do
people identify with their favorite
team so strongly? They aren't the
ones down there running on the
field. Sports seemed so arbitrary and
overblown.
These feelings lasted my entire
freshman year, as well as during last
year's football season. Needless to
say, I didn't waste money on any kind
of tickets again.
But around the time of this year's
Super Bowl, my boss at Cafe Ambro-
sia, Ed, decided to take me to task.
"You lefties," he told me, "only feel
this way because you're bad at sports
yourselves'" He describes himself
as the only liberal who sees value

in them. He sees beauty and heart
in athletics, and asked me to look at
them as I would at art or music.
My main problem with sports is
how commercial they've become.
Clearly, athletics carry a lot of power,
and hundreds of millions of dollars
at our University are spent on them.
People have to pay through the nose
for season tickets, signed merchan-
dise and ESPN6. But Ed defended
sports, saying commercialization
happens to all forms entertainment.
"Just look at the music industry," he
said.
He's slowly convincing me that,
at the heart of the game, something
more meaningful is going on. What
that is, he didn't tell me what it is.
But he challenged me for saying that
sports don't mean anything.
He told me about moments in sports
history when athletes had everything
to fight for. In the 1936 Olympics in
Berlin, Jesse Owens won four gold
medals in track and field events that
were all but a' referendum on Third
Reich eugenics. When Joe Louis
knocked out German Max Schmel-
ing in the same year, it sent the same
message home. In 1947, Jackie Robin-
son broke the color barrier in Major
League Baseball. Ed asserted that
Western Texas's victory against the
University of Kansas catalyzed the
desegregation of southern collegiate
basketball teams.
He told me about the history of
the game. Once, sportsmen worked
as grocers in the off-season, before
the multi-million dollar contracts we
have today. In some sports, players
still do.
Last Thursday, my friend and I
went to our boss's house for the Clem-
son vs. Michigan basketball game.
Four kids hollered and jumped up
and down in front of the television,
cheering on the Wolverines. One of
the boys had never seen a basketball

game before, and yet he was point-
ing and booing as loud as the rest of
them. It wasn't until then I realized
'the power of competition.
It was difficult.to see through the
commercialization of something like
March Madness, but the Wolver-
ines' return to the playoffs felt like
an appropriate time. Michigan was
banned from the playoffs in 2002 and
2003 after it came to light that former
basketball booster Ed Martin had
paid off players in the '90s. Not since
1998 has our team made it as far as we
did Thursday night. And we made it
How 'M' basketball
illustrated the
meaning of sports.
to the playoffs, fair and square.
My boss likes collegiate sports
because of the distance they keep
from huge returns. He appreci-
ates the guys who aren't playing for
money but for love of the game. I real-
ized that I may not love the game as
the players or true sports fans do, but
S can appreciate the way their passion'
brings them together.
I've decided to give sports another
chance. Maybe it's the terrible econ-
omy. Maybe it's the way I felt in the
last 30 seconds of Thursday's game.
Sports can bring people closer togeth-
er and overcome boundaries that few
other mainstream pasttimes can. I'm
still dubious about franchised goods,
multi-million dollar contracts and
Madonna love triangles, but I think
I can finally stop arguing with Ed.
Sports have spirit, after all.
- Meg Young can be reached
at megyoung@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

A



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 23, 2009 - 5A

All sales, no substance

"Dude. There's this new thing called the Internet. In five years, it's gonna be huge."
A0 lvble loser

The endearing Paul
Rudd flounders in
his starring role
By NOAH DEAN STAHL
Daily Arts Writer
Paul Rudd is one of the stron-
gest supporting
players in com-
edy today. Bring-
ing his affable I Love You
yet smart-alecky Man
demeanor to mov-
ies like "The 40 At Showcase
Year-Old Virgin" and Quality16
and "Knocked paramount/
Up," his great DreamWorks
strength is his
ability to be asource of both sen-
timent and hilarity. This being the
case, it's only natural that Rudd
would foray into the role of leading
man, following in the footsteps of
fellow comics Will Ferrell, Vince
Vaughn and Steve Carell, who all
graduated from co-pilot to head
honcho. Earlier this year, Rudd
starred in David Wain's "Role
Models," which was entertaining
enough, but not at the same stan-
dard of his previous roles. Even

with all of this in mind, it's hard
not to be thoroughly disappoint-
ed with his most recent role in "I
Love You, Man."
Rudd plays Peter Klaven, a
sweet, good-natured realtor and a
"girlfriend-guy" - that is, he has
no male friends of his own, only his
new fiancee Zooey (Rashida Jones,
TV's "The Office"). It sounds like a
role in which Rudd could flourish
comedically. Instead, he is spine-
less and awkward. And not the
amusing kind of awkward, but the
awkward that makes you just want
him to shut up.
As a complete product, the movie
is decidedly subpar. Barely direct-
ed by John Hamburg ("Along Came
Polly"), it's hard not to feel like a lot
of it was conceived in the editing
room. Judd Apatow's productions
are known for being freewheeling,
with the written script used as a
guide for riffing and improvising.
With Apatow's golden touch com-
pletely absent, Hamburg, who also
wrote the script, tries to employ
this same type of filmmaking but
fails miserably.
The film's basic premise is
funny enough. It takes characters
coasting through life - a staple
of buddy comedies today - and

forces them to interact with one
another in uncomfortable ways
(as though they were wooing each
other). In short, it is a romantic
comedy for guys, affectionately
termed a "bromance." The idea is
clever, but it fails to materialize in
a meaningful way on screen.
Jason Segel ("Forgetting Sarah
Marshall") plays Sydney Fife, the
man in Peter's life, and he shines
in the film - he would be the film's
saving grace if it were worth sav-
ing at all. Sydney is carefree and
matter-of-fact, constantly offering
candid and hilarious outbursts of
vulgarity. As one of Seth Rogen's
buddies in "Knocked Up," Segel
stole the show - and he was ironi-
cally at odds with Paul Rudd. In "I
Love You, Man" he steps up in a
supporting role and ends up hav-
ing to support the entire movie.
Getting back to Rudd: It can't
be stressed enough that he is a
tremendous player in contempo-
rary comedy. He is such a likable
guy, which makes it all the more
difficult to see him flounder in a
lead role. While Segel is refresh-
ingly funny, the best way not to let
Rudd's performance leave a sour
taste in your mouth is by not see-
ing "I Love You, Man" at all.

Jt botbers me wben art
becomes dictated by capi-
talism. Not in a Warholian,
appropriate-
capitalism-and-
fuck-The-Man
kind of way,
but in an if-
this-doesp't-,
pay-The-Man-
won't-fund-it WHITNEY
kind of way.,
Arguably, this POW
is the way the
world works - for anything to be
produced and sold, there needs to
be consumer interest. And accord-
ing to popular trends, something
noted as "best-selling" or "popu-
lar" isn't necessarily high-quality,
innovative work.
Somewhat cliche examples of
popular trends (a redundant state-
ment) include "Marley and Me"
(which grossed over $36 million
in its opening weekend), Thomas
Kinkade (the "Painter of Light"
and mass-producer of commer-
cialized, soft-colored Christian-
themed art seascapes of crashing
waves over rocky harbors) and
chick-lit books by Meg Cabot
(author of "The Princess Diaries,"
whose books center on find-your-
man-and-be-happy fairy tale
promises).
What do these pieces all have in
common? A sense of sentimental-
ity - a settling on laurels. They
capitalize on what ha already
been tried-and-true. People love
animals and will always want to
see a cute, lovable puppy on the big
screen (see the "Beethoven" film
franchise, which has produced
six films since 1992). Kinkade
capitalizes on an alluring blend
of Christian evangelical values
(his company aims "to share the
light of God everywhere") and
realistic 19th century painting,
which is now widely accepted and
marketable. Cabot plays off of the
stereotypical ideas and images of
young American women who are
supposedly food-obsessed, man-
obsessed and shoe-obsessed; these
,jleasjhave been cqpi;alize4,QOp,,,
numerous times in chick flicks and

magazines like Teen People.
These money-fueled films,
paintings and books don't dare
to step outside of what is already
known; they capitalize on what
has been proven to sell well. And
arguably, this is where the line
between "art" and "consumer
product" begins.
Sam Wagstaff, an art collector
and curator who also happened
to be in a relationship with pho-
tographer Robert Mapplethorpe,
put it simply: "The kiss of death in
art is sentimentality." There is a
problem that occurs when art gets
too sentimental: We dive right
into banality. We see our culture
the same way we've always seen
it - as a glowing, mass-produced,
QVC-marketed oil painting filled
with NASCAR races and Ameri-
can flags flapping vapidly in the
wind. We get kitsch without its
irony. We get nostalgic, unas-
suming postmodernism. Simply,
we get art that is not meaningful,
which is a horrible thing.
If art becomes fueled by a want
for sentimental commodities over
thought-provoking dialogue, all is
lost. Safe, conservative works will
prevail, and censorship will uproot
any idea that ever deviated from
the norm. Why do people want to
watch "Marley and Me"? Because
it presents viewers with uncompli-
cated truths, has no homosexual
couples or questionable political
themes and is inoffensive.
This is similar to Cabot's writ-
ing; while a book like "Big Boned"
may depict "racy" sexual female
norms, that's what they are -
norms. And it's normative when
women are laid out as a predict-
able formula, one that outlines
the supposed fact that the white,
middle-class girl always wants a.)
sex with men b.) weight loss c.)
clothing d.) popularity. And this
not always true for everybody.
There are whole demograph-
ics not represented in this equa-
tion, where those of the lower
class, immigrants, homosexuals
and racial minorities (to name a
feW are npt represented. tf.he,
creative hand of Cabot domi-

neered the world, I would have
no representation in it as a first-
generation Asian-American.
While people of my demographic
may not represent a significant
slice of the buyers of her books, I
know that I, and many others, do
not fit into her safe book-selling
formula. And why is this? The
representation of minorities and
incorporation of controversial
topics in art is risky. Does it sell
well? We don't know.
And while it may be risky, I
appreciate art that deviates from
the norm and causes people to
question things. Included are
books about the Dominican-Amer-
ican diaspora, like Pulitzer-Prize
winner "The Brief and Wondrous
Life of Oscar Wao" by Junot Diaz.
I would like to see more graphic
Meg Cabot is not
an artist.
novels like Adrian Tomine's
"Shortcomings," in which Asians
are represented as a diverse,
unexoticized, integral part of the
demographic of the United States.
I also want to see more films like
"Waltz with Bashir" that examine
controversial issues and the hazy
line between what is political and
moral. I want to see more art by
people like Swoon, a female graffiti
artist in a male-dominated field of
art; she questions the limits and
boundaries of property and vis-
ibility with her beautifully crafted
paper graffiti depicting urban
minorities.
When the things we cre-
ate question what this world is
about, that's when they become
art. And while I'm still often
pleasantly surprised by the art
America is capable of producing,
I'd like to see this potential used
to its fullest.
Pow is tryingto make the least
marketable artever. Tell her what
repulses you at poww@umich.edu.

History's greatest mistake

By TOMMY COLEMAN
Daily Arts Writer
Today, television caters to every
possible inter-
est. For those
wanting to know
more about dec- Battles BC
orative cakes,
there's "Ace of Mondays
Cakes" on Food at 9 p.m.
Network. If you History
want to know
the process behind flute produc-
tion, it's on "How It's Made" on
the Discovery Channel. Golfers
get a channel all to themselves, for
some reason, named, aptly, Golf
Channel. And history buffs, well,
they get History (aka The History
Channel, as it used to be named).
Overflowing with facts and
historical reenactments, History
covers just about everything that
happened in the past, and only
those viewers who really care
about this type of thing pay any
attention.
Recently, though, History has
been trying to expand its audience
base and reach out to people other
than self-proclaimed historians
with "Battles BC," a new show rec-
reating some of the most notable
ancient wars.
Each week, "Battles BC" dis-
sects an infamous clash between
ancientarmies.Theseriespremiere
chronicles Hannibal, the great war

tactician and commander of the
Carthaginian army, and his unsuc-
cessful effortto conquer the Roman
Empire. Future episodes will cover
the military. exploits of Alexan-
der the Great, David (of David and
Goliath fame) and many others.
Now that all sounds like the
same old stuff for History. But
there's a catch.
With "Battles," History takes a
stab at making a show that's excit-
ing for a wider audience. It's clear
that the show is intended to capti-
vate not only those genuinely inter-
It's like '300,'
but much worse.
ested in history, but also those who
love hard-hitting action flicks and-
the heroics and violence of super-
hero films. Accordingly, "Battles
BC" is different from the typical
historical documentary - it's the
mutant child of History documen-
taries like "The Presidents" and
Zack Snyder's 2007 blockbuster
"300." But, ultimately, it's a mix
that just doesn't work.
"Battles BC" shamelessly mim-
ics the visual style of "300," dra-
matic backdrops and all. There are
countless gory portrayals of decap-
itations and spears tearing through

flesh. During exceptionally bloody
moments, everything moves in
Snyder-esque slow motion, occa-
sionally stopping on one frame in
particular and allowing for a car-
toony blood splatter or two.
It's easy to understand why
someone thought these special
effects would help to make things
"look cool," but there comes a point
where historical accuracy needs
to be respected (the channel is
called History). Who is expected
to believe that Hannibal looked
exactly like a bodybuilder? Or that
during battle he would pause for a
moment to give an enemy soldier
a menacing look before using both
of his swords to decapitate him? Or
that, after decapitating the soldier,
Hannibal would stand in the same
spot, reach his arms out, tilt his
head back and let out a lion's roar?
These ridiculous exaggerations
make sense in a movie adapted
fromanexceptionallyviolent comic
book, but for a documentary on
History, a more realistic portrayal
would have been more appropriate.
In an attempt to please everyone,
History seems to have mixed two
unmixable genres.
Although there are moments
of visual awesomeness and others
of historical insight, "Battles BC"
doesn'treally contain quite enough
of either to be satisfying, leaving
both history buffs and action junk-
ies wanting more.

Undergraduate Fellows Program
2009-2010
What: Six to eight fellowships funded with a $4000 stipend for the 2009-10 academic year.
Each Fellow will carry out an individual project related to ethics in public life, and
participate in twice monthly Fellows meeting and other Center activities and events.
Who: Undergraduates currently enrolled at UM Ann Arbor campus, who will be enrolled
full time and in residence for the entire 2009-10 academic year.
When: Applications are due via email to ethics@umich.edu by 5:00pm April 10, 2009.
The Center for Ethics in Public Life (www.ethics.umich.edu) is an interdisciplinary
center dedicated to the encouragement of teaching, research and creative projects, and
public discourse that promote understanding of the ethical dimensions of our lives, and
especially, the lives we live in common.
Questions? Email ethics@umich.edu

A

I.

i


6A- Monday, March 23, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

0

a BDRM. CONDO 2317 Packard.
VERY clean, new appl, quiet area. Bus
stop out front, pool in rear. $68,000 or
offer. 734-930-0200,or 734-474-0978.
99 FORD RANGER pickup, t18k
miles, runs excellent, clean
can be seen in U/M stadium lot. $3000
d',dA()'7R

aa***n*PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
8t9 Brawn
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts will buy you FREE
LUNCH ! Fir2t 3 1new visitors daity,
weekdayt t2-3pm. THtS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenofts.com
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking,;FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
ePost Realty
properties
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

!CURNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, t to)Directv with
DVR al included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. mittsrefin-
isbed bardwoad floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
$$REDUCED RATES$S
Remadeled 2 Bedraom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great far 4 peaple!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primeshbcom
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jtnsprop.com 769-7025.
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-bousing.com
**AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Avail.
Fall 09. On Dewey, near Yost Arena.
offstreet prkg, Indry. ($1500/mo.).
734.223.7777.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
Aoartments Availabid/

100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
AVAIL. SEPT. '09, $4,300, large 6
bedroom, 3 bath. house very close to
Diag. Central air, laundry, 4 nearby
parking spts,dd. flsue, large bed-
roms. michalbielby a cicastnetb
3 BDRM HOUSE, 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wsrdryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, frot pore e&deck in
back. Call 248-21487081
3 BDRM. APTS. Eut U. $1625/m.
Farn. eat/water ac. On site pkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BDRM APT. avail, fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail, on-site Indry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
available May fur $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
wwwwilsonwhitenanagement.com
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadiuss
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only I
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 510 Catherine.
nly 1 umo. sec. depsi 3 1/2 bhs,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rs.
$3400 neg. plus ustil. 734-996-1991.
old Town Realt
Houses Available
for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton P. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
1300 Broadway $2400

Offering a $500.00
gift card to a store of
your choice with every
signed lease of these
alanilsahlPa hrtiiceae

816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May '09 to August -09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Yuur attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
t visit ww.CanputMgt.com, tse best
loaaiwebsite fan tbe best velection ef
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available tool! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood foors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathontravis d/sbcglobal.net
DON'T MISS Outs-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today In see your new
susmn! 734-761-8000. primshnbom

WilSonWhite
S M A N A G E M E N T
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
r May and Fall 2009 availibility
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
will waive the application fee and reduce
security deposit to one month's rent
I 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagementI.om
' ~ - - - - - - -
Rooms, studios, and 1-to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations
CALL TODAY!
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ ma.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay windom, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
EFFICIENCY AND 1 dm..aps.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. far $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoMnagemetcm
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.micbcomreaty.com for details.
EHO.
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.co/mi/v280580
or visit or website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm a . with balconies or
patios. 'Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM.,duplex. 1114
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C.
Free ldry. $2650+ util. avail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrmn.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
FBDRM. & EFE.APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2040;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
Co'Ned ad OOp
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms

0

twtw.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201

RELEASE DATE- Monday, March 23, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 "_and 36 "Born Free" 51 Saharan hills
1 Belgrade native Butt-head": MTV lioness 52 Viewpoint
5 Unmarried cartoon 39 Like many 54 Home of the
woman's title 5 Ceremony atan Disneyfilms NFL's Bengals,
9 Try out altar 40 Bill Clinton's casually
13 Crime scene find 6 Angers instrument 55 Tobe, in Tijuana
14 Pleasant scent 7 Alternative 41 Incurred, as 56 Clobber, in the
16Suffixwithswitch energytype debts Bible
17 2000s sitcom 8 Show one's 46 Wolf Man player 57 Uno plus dos
starring a country pearly whites Chaney 58 Discourteous
singer 9 Fellow Dodger, 47 Waterlogged 59 "Picnic" Pulitzer
18 Ignited again e.g. 49 Freeway winner
19 Auth. unknown 10 With 3-Down, entrance 60 ABA member
20 All-in-one home inventor of a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
entertainment puzzling cube
gadget 11 Chimneyhbuildup J M B A RJR I E DEB A R K
23 Photoshot 12 Muscle quality p R O T E A M S E L I S H A
bathingsuit 15Gillette razors E S T H E T I C P I S T O N
24 Cain ofthe _: 25 Beon the air until G O T E V E N SPA C I N G
legal currency 22 Nighmane stretLs
25 Mt. Rushmore's of film LONE LPS KOREA
state 26 Go--: small F E M A D O O R M A T
27 intelligence, racer A A S T I V O A ZIT E C S
slangily 28 Genuine C R U S A D E D A G A I N S T
31 In the past 29 Westminster art T Y P E R S L I E N C T A
34dColorualqarz gallery T OO L E R S C L U E
370Drablewood 30Terriernamedfor R 0 A S T E ST H 0 0 0
38 Pact between a Scottish isle INDUCED OPENSEA
two cuntries 31 Stllinthesack I N D U C E 8 0 P E N S E A
42' Almighty': 32 Donate D E E P A K N A I L G U N S
2007 Steve 33 Patronasaint of G A L 0 R E B I T P A R T S
Carellfilm Norway EMENDS C R A S S E S T
43 Where sailors go 35 Chinese "way" xwordeditor@aol.com 03/2309
44 Director Spike or1
Ang
45 Blue _: Duke 13 14 1is 16
University team
48 Part of A.D. 17 13 19
50 Frames of mind
53 Pound's 16 28 21
57 Geimetric solid2
withfive faces,
ironically 233 26 2 s 0 329 33
65 Puniest pup
02 Swarming pests 31 32 33 34 35 36 37
63 Opposed to
64 Advantage 3
65 Busybody 434
66 Exam for future
67 Bird feederfood4
68 Netherworld river so 51 52 s s4 s3 35
88 Cumbussie
laneral heap 5 as o
DOWN
1 Clean using 64 35 3bw.a
elbo grease
21885 Malkovich 37 36 3fl
3 See 10-Down By Pano Harrisn r03/23/09
(c)2609 Tribune Mia Servie, 1inc.

eadline for ne ads is 11:30am one business day p

Rates:
additiona
contactc
ads are F

$4.30 per line for the first issue and $2.15!
a consecutive issue . Frequency and Bull
our staff for details * Students may receive
laced in perso with a vald student ID (no
ads only) * Al ads must be prepaid unlesi
n establshed *"We accept Visa, Masterct

Drior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
per line for each 020 - For Sale
k contracts are available- 025 - Parking
a 25% discount when 030 -Automotive
n-organizational, non- 040- Computers
s prior billing privileges
ard, American Express, 04-Tcnlg
smd msmsn Scpmss, 050 - Furniture
Ivertising, please cal one
60- For Rent
070 - Sublet
4 days 5 days 080 - Services
21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
43.0 51.60 095 - Chd Care

Discover, cash, or check * For Clas
of ourAccount Executives
1 day 2 days
2 lines .0 12.90
3 lines 1 t2.90 1935

tfed Displayad
3 days
17.20
25.80
39.40

I
I
I

i

4 lines 17.20
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only stan
TM for faiure to publish ar
salblintdt ulsiiwil be responsible for classi
Rates: Al changes shownI
consecutive rate if requeste
Advertisers may cancel an
been pubished. Refusal: F
resale of tickets at llore tha
accepting advertising.

abbreviations as defined by TMD wil be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
ertisement for any reason, or for pubshing incorrect ads in a specified issue
subsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pr on the first day of publication.
e open rates lnes are consecutive insertions. Anad may be extended at a
d paid in ful by 11:30 am on originaly sch ed ending date Refunds:
'fore publcation deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
s are subject to editing and approval We do not publsh advertisements for
:e value. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to

100-
to-
120-
123-
125 -
130-
140-
150-
16-

- Tickets & Travel
- Announcements
Websites
- Music
Roommates
Food & Entertainment
Personal
-Pets

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 23, 2009 - 7A

In death, 'U' prof. honored
for his anti-tobacco efforts

At luncheon, Holocaust
survivors keep past alive

School of Health he was a cherished colleague of
all who knew him at each stage of
Prof. Ronald Davis AMA development to the eventual
role of the youngest president ever
died in November of the largest medical society in
the world."
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG Julia Cartwright, senior vice
Daily StaffReporter president of communications for
the American Legacy Foundation,
One of Ronald Davis's dreams said Davis was a respected member
was to create a tobacco-free world, of the public health community.
where teenagers would never be "His contributions to tobacco
tempted to smoke. Though he was control efforts over the course of
unable to achieve thisgoal,the Uni- his career were immeasurable and
versity alum and adjunct professor equaled only by his passion and
of epidemiology at the School of determination to save lives," she
Public Health was recognized last wrote in an e-mail interview.
week for his wide-ranging efforts From June 2007 through June
to promote tobacco control. 2008, Davis served as the presi-
Davis, who passed away in dent of the American Medical
November 2008 at age 52 from Association.
pancreatic cancer, was honored Since 1995, Davis worked to
with a posthumous Lifetime control tobacco use as the direc-
Achievement Award at the sixth tor of the Center for Health Pro-
annual American Legacy Foun- motion and Disease Prevention
dation Honors ceremony in New at the Henry Ford Health System
York City. in Detroit. He also worked for the
Each year, the event recognizes Centers for Disease Control and
prominent figures in public health, Prevention and directed its Office
business, entertainment, govern- on Smoking and Health, in addi-
ment and the media who advocate tion to acting as chief medical offi-
for tobacco control. cer of the Michigan Department of
Davis's mentor and life-long Community Health.
friend,former SurgeonGeneral Dr. Davis also chaired the Resi-
Charles Everett Koop, presented dency Advisory Committee for the
the award to Davis's wife Nadine. preventative medicine residency
"Ron Davis was a stand-out program in the University's School
at every level of participation in of Public Health.
the work of the American Medi- Matthew Boulton, associate
cal Association," Koop wrote in professor of epidemiology and
an e-mail interview. "In addition, associate dean of the School of
the michigan daily

Public Health, followed Davis as
the chief medical officer of the
Michigan Department of Commu-
nity Health. For many years, the
two worked together to train pub-
lic health physicians.
Boulton said Davis was an out-
spoken critic of the tobacco com-
panies and life-long advocate for
tobacco prevention.
"As the first preventive medi-
cine physician to serve as AMA
president, he used that bully pulpit
to speak eloquently for stronger
tobacco control laws," Boulton
wrote in an e-mail interview. He
added that Davis was a "very good
friend, and all of us in the pub-
lic health community nationally
mourn his premature death."
Public Health-Dean KenWarner
worked with Davis for more than
20 years. He said in addition to
working on tobacco issues, Davis
advocated for public health and
disease prevention. More recent-
ly, he pressured various health
groups to address the growing
problem of obesity.
In addition to the posthumous
award he received last week, Davis
received numerous awards dur-
ing his life including the Surgeon
General's Medallion, the Ameri-
can Public Health Association's
Jay S. Drotman Memorial Award,
the American College of Preven-
tive Medicine's Distinguished Ser-
vice Award and the World Health
Organization's World No-Tobacco
Day medal and award.

ANNA BAKEMAN/Dail
Holocaust survivor Michael Weiss (right) talks about his experiences with University Housing staff member Jeff Kenney during
Hillel's Conference on the Holocaust yesterday. The annual event brings in survivors to talk with University community members.

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primeshcom
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Divisin
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
!! AVAILABLE POR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all
lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm, modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
serv ices
DELICIOUS TREATS
DELIVERED - To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-H exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.

GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfnasncial.com
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U? $9.25-
+Hr. at Michigan Telefand. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PAID RESEARCH: EARN $20 for 1-
hour study on website use. To qualify,
must be an active blogger. Email
website-userstudy@umich.edu
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800)626-6304.
wwwtheislandhoase cow
t ickets &tra vel
100
A TurRAVEL
Book your flight to Europe
for the summer during
March, and get your 1st
hostel night free!
STA Travel, Inc.
530 South State St
Ann Arbor MI 48109
: (734)769.2555
UMl@statravel.com

Holocaust survivors
share their memories
with students at
annual event
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Leon Salomon tried to hold back
tears when he spoke of his sister,
Chava, and his escape from the
Nazis who shot her.
Salomon, who recounted his
story of being the sole remaining
member of his immediate family
and joining the Soviet Army, was
among 35 other Holocaust sur-
vivors at a luncheon at the Hillel
House yesterday.
Compelled to share his memory
of Chava, Salomon echoed the sen-
timents of the event and the last
words of his sister - "never forget."
For LSA junior Jaclyn Einstein,
a third generation Holocaust sur-
vivor, Salomon's words rang true.
Her own paternal grandparents
lost all of their brothers, sisters and
parents and were forced to work in
many concentration camps across

Germany, including Auschwitz.
Old enough now to understand,
Einstein said she needed her grand-
mother's stories and those of other
survivors to understand her own
heritage and family.
"I feellike it's my duty to remember
what happened," she said. "I'm here
because my grandmother survived.
My grandparents both survived."
Einstein said she thought the
luncheon gave attendees a chance
to hear firsthand the stories and
plights of survivors.
The University of Michigan Hil-
lel's Conference on the Holocaust
sponsored yesterday's luncheon,
which was attended by more than
250 people - many of whom were'
students.
Business junior Elianna Starr, a
co-chair for the Conference on the
Holocaust, said last year's luncheon
aimed to reach out to as many
people as possible but had done so
largely within the Jewish commu-
nity. This year, she said the event
sought to increase awareness to a
broader audience.
"Our goal was to branch out and
try to get people who may have not
even heard of the Holocaust or met
a Holocaust survivor," she said.
LSA sophomore Alex Rosenthal,

another co-chair for the Confer-
ence on the Holocaust, said he
hoped the event will continue to
be held annually so students will
always be given the opportunity to
hear survivors' stories.
"There can never be enough
Holocaust remembrance," he said.
Rosenthal added that with time,
people come to forget the most ter-
rible details of the Holocaust and of
the stories of its survivors. For that
reason, he said it was of the utmost
importance to preserve the memo-
ries of an already dwindling num-
ber of survivors.
Last year's luncheon hosted
more than 60 survivors, many of
whom had passed away or couldn't
to attend this year because of poor
health.
The event was concluded with
six University students, who were
third-generation Holocaust survi-
vors, lighting six candles to honor
and remember the 6 million Jews
killed during the Holocaust.
"Wehopethatrelationships were
made today and that people's lives
were changed;" Rosenthal said.


For Tuesday, March 24, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You have a strong desire to talk to oth-
ers and communicate your ideas for the
next month. That's because Mercury is
joining Venus and the Sun in your sign.
Va-va-va-voom!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
During the next month, your ability to
research anything wilt e escellenst.
You're looking for answers and hidden
information. You'll also enjoy working
alone or behind the scenes.
GEMINI
(May 21 to Jane 21)
hmooze and chat with others during
the month ahead. In particular, talk to
people about your dreams and goals for
the future, because their feedback will
help you.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Discussions with bosses, parents,
teachers and VIPs will be significadt in
the neyt four weeks. People are ready to
listen to your ideas. (This is the time to
speak upt)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Any kind of study, as well as work
connected to publishing, the media,
medicine and the law, will go well in the
month ahead. You're keen to learn some-
thing new.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Use the next four weeks to clean up
red-tape details about insurance matters,
inheritances, taxes and debt. Just roll up
your sleeves and get down to it. (Yoru'll
love yourself for this later.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Conversations with partners and close
friends will be unusually intense and
dynamic during the next month.

Mercury is opposing your sign, which
means youre going to have to listen to
others!
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You're keen to work during the next
three to four weeks, because Mercury
energizes your motivation and your abil-
ity to concentrate, especially with mental
work. Plan on getting a lot done.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dee. 21)
Because you feel unusually playful
and prankish in the next month, explore
opportunities to party and enjoy your-
self. Playful times with children will
delight you.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Family discussions will be significant
in the next four weeks. This is also a
good time to tackle home repairs.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
The month ahead is busy with short
trips and conversations with others,
especially siblings. You're eager about
something, and you want to share your
ideas!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You're fullrof roneymaking ideas
during the next few weeks. Believe in
yourself. Write them down. (You never
know what might work!)
YOU BORN TODAY You're warm,
affectionate, proactive, strong and ready
to go alter what you want, especially
when defending your principles. People
love your spontaneity and direct way of
expressing yourself You'll e childlike
all yorur lifr, Between agrs 30 and 5g,
you want to establish a solid financial
base, especially with real estate. Your
year ahead focuses strongly on partner-
ships and close friendships.
Birthdate of: Steve McQueen, actor;
David Suzuki, environmentalist; Sharon
Corn, nmusiciatn.

BASKETBALL
From Page 1A
disastrous. A four-year record of
62-60 and 26-38 in the Big Ten, and
he was gone.
Tommy Amaker did better, tak-
ing two teams to the NIT finals and
winning in 2004, but he still never
reached the NCAA Tournament in
his six seasons.
Postseason aspirations were
high then, but they're even higher
now that Beilein led Michigan to
the Big Dance in just his second
year.
Now, it's not necessarily a ques-
tion of just getting there but it's
how far the Wolverines can go.
"Satisfaction," Beilein said when
asked what he will savor about this
season. "It's nice to feel you accom-
plished something, but we want to
continue the hunger for us to get
Michigan past this stage."
From his first day in Ann Arbor,
DANCE MARATHON
From Page 1A
Participants raise money by col-
lecting pledges for their participa-
tion in the event. Individuals can
also give a general donation to the
event through the group's website.
More than 40 corporations spon-
sored this year's event, according to
the UMDM website.
For the entire 30 hours, the only
requirement is that those partici-
pating must remain on their feet.
To keep the participants' energy
level high during the 30 hours of
standing, an array of activities was
available to them, including crafts,
basketball, video games and a study
table.
LSA sophomore Breanna Miller,
who worked as a dance captain,
said she enjoyed dancing to the
upbeat music with other members
of her group.
"I'm definitely looking forward

Beilein wanted to build a new
culture. Sims noted on Selection
Sunday how Beilein taught the
Wolverines to believe, something
that had been missing in the years
of tournament misses.
This successful season can be a
springboard if the Wolverines con-
tinue to grow and develop within
the coach's system. Beilein came to
Ann Arbor with a winner's resume:
26 winning seasons and trips to
the Sweet 16 and Elite Eight. He
has shown he can turn a program
around.
Although losing vocal fifth-year
senior captains C.J. Lee and David
Merritt to graduation might hinder
that process, the Wolverines could
continue to lay the foundation nec-
essary to bring the program back to
prominence.
Look at the nucleus Sims and
sophomore forward Manny Har-
ris provide. The duo has improved
within Beilein's system and led
Michigan in some of its biggest
to the line dance," Miller said at the
beginning of the night.
The line dance, which formed
whenever Rihanna's "Disturbia"
played, consisted of participants
charging the stage and dancing en
masse, their movements synchro-
nized.
Around noon on Sunday, the
cue for the line dance began, but
Nursing senior Rachel Levinson
remained slumped over a table in
the back of the room.
"(I'm) very tired," Levinson said.
"(It's been) pretty rough."
Participants at the event wore
different colored T-shirts depend-
ing on their roles. Shirt colors
ranged from morale captains
wearing bright pink T-shirts to
family supporters wearing brown
shirts and crewmembers wearing
black.
.Business senior Alex Kunkel,
who wore the black shirt indicating
his job as a crew member instead
of a dancer, watched the proceed-

wins.
Harris unequivocally said he'll
be back next season. And Michi-
gan's crop of sharpshooting fresh-
men - Stu Douglass, Zack Novak
and Laval Lucas-Perry - hit plenty
of game-changing 3-pointers this
season.
With just a taste of the NCAA
Tournament, how could they not
want more?
After every practice this season,
theWolverinesbrokewiththechant
of their ultimate goal: "NCAA."
What should they say now?
"When they break on that next
year, it's going to have a totally
different meaning because we've
achieved that goal, and it's time to
push forward and just get better in
this tournament," Lee said.
It'll be a new meaning, but if the
team reaches its potential, it would
be a program expectation.
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr@umich.edu.
ings from a distance and said he
felt somewhat excluded from the
events.
"Im pretty much running this
entire monstrosity," Kunkel said,
gesturing toward the drop-off sta-
tion where participants had placed
their personal belongings. "I feel
disconnected from the marathon."
University alum Lizzie Neilson
was one volunteer who helped out
at the event by giving massages to
participants and bringing them
water.
"The alumni in the organization
really want to be still involved,"
Neilson said. "Every year I come
back, I'm so inspired about how
amazing the dancers are."
Spadafore echoed Neilson's sen-
timents, not just for the marathon,
but for the entire year of work.
"I thought it was absolutely
incredible. We had a solid group
of dancers," he said. "They were
just 100 percent energy the entire
year."

WANT TO DESIGN FLASH GRAPHICS
FOR THE DAILY?
E-MAIL GRACA@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

' 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc..

A

i
.


8A -- Monday, March 23, 2009

8A -Mondy, arch23, 009The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 6

6

I

a

0

a

a

I
I

A


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I March 23, 2009

.Sophomre Manny Harrisis caledifora charge inthe maongmnutesstfMichigan,'s7363 lossito 2se kaoaSatrdy ith seconed rouoftheNCAA Tournamet. Harris ouled uof aepcig upto offtesvefoulsogthe way.

L date-game collapse should raise concerns

FT" L "SEPRIN ACTICE
Special teams get special
treatment in spring ball

DETROIT -
Maybe it was the third or
fourth goal of the foal
period that did it.
The players insisted the turn-
ing point in Saturday's game came
earlier, that it was the shot that put
Notre Dame on the board in the
middle of the second.
But it was hard to count Michi-
gan out with so much time left and
in such an important game.
For the Wolverines, who abso-
lutely rocketed through the past
few months and built their reputa-
tion as a second-half team, it was
the entire second half of the CCHA
Championship game that failed
them.
Something snapped. What-

ever it was - be it goaltending
or turnovers or determination -
completely shrunk Michigan's con-
fidence level
and momen- -
tum heading
into the NCAA
Tournament."
And no
matter what
caused the
third-period
meltdown, the NICOLE
fact that it hap- AUERBACH
pened must be
addressed if
the Wolverines
want tobea legitimate national ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
championship contender. Michigan coach Red Berenson and the Wolverines held a 2-t lead going into the
See AUERBACH, Page 5B final stanza of Saturday night's CCHA Championship. Michigan lost the game 5-2.

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
Last season, the Michigan foot-
ball team featured a merry-go-
round of kick and punt returners.
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
desperately shifted new players on
and off the unit as one Wolverine
after another bobbled and fumbled
returns.
There were different excuses for
the special teams sloppiness after
each game - the weather was poor,
focus was lacking or there was sim-
ply an issue of miscommunication.

But Rodriguez is trying to make
sure the Wolverines aren't as easily
distracted this year.
Junior Donovan Warren, senior
Greg Mathews and redshirt fresh-
man Terrence Robinson took turns
fielding punts during the first half
hour of practice Saturday, and each
successfully fielded his first few
punts before Rodriguez walked
over to their area, holding a. blue
blocking shield.
As Mathews prepared to catch
the ball, Rodriguez threw the block-
ing shield at the senior, forcing him
See SPRING PRACTICE, Page SB

With multiple questions on the offensive After hosting an NCAA regional last year,
end, can the Michigan softball team gear up the Wolverine baseball team and ace pitcher
for another tough Big Ten title race? Page 3B. Chris Fetter look toward Omaha. Page 4B.



2B - March 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

Berenson created 'M' dominates Buckeyes in
a winning model final regular-season meet

0

Building a program" has
become a buzz phrase
around Michigan athletics.
John Beil-
ein is doingit
with the men's
basketball
team by taking
a big step in
that direction
this year. Rich
Rodriguez
promises he NATE
is doing it for SANDALS,
football.
But what
many people forget is that once
you've built a program, you have to
work just as hard to keep it strong.
Any coach looking for advice on
how to build and maintain a top
program should have one name at
the top of the list of people to learn
from: Red Berenson.
Berenson's Michigan hockey
team made the NCAA Tournament
for the 19th season ina row yester-
day, building on a record that will
probably never be broken.
Berenson, now finishing up
his 25th year behind the Michi-
gan bench, took over a program
without direction in the mid-
1980s. By the early 1990s, he had
a powerhouse. In 1996 and 1998,
he coached teams to the National
Championship.
That quick bio ignores his pro-
lific playing career, both at Michi-
gan and in the NHL. Before he
returned to coach the Wolverines,
he had already won an NHL Coach
of the Year Award.
Berenson gets the job done no
matter the circumstances. It's as
simple as that.
Just take a look at this season.
Michigan lost its top three scor-
ers from last year. Two of its best
defensemen missed extended time
with injuries. Still, Berenson and
Co. got the job done.
Year after year, players graduate,
leave early for professional hockey
or just plain leave, but Berenson's
teams keep on winning. And that's
the most important thing, isn't it?
When Rodriguez and Beilein
came to Michigan, there was a
lot made of the new systems they
brought with them (the spread
offense and 1-3-1 zone, respec-

tively). What most people failed to
focus on was a simple question: do
they win?
History says yes, and winning
transcends system.
A coach's hardest task isto teach
his or her team how to win. Even
with all the talent in the world, if
a team can't win a close game, it
won't be successful.
Berenson's teams have been
winning close games for two
decades now.
This is where Berenson's old-
school style deserves so much
credit. Michigan hockey has been
scarily consistent for many years.
It's almost like a perpetual-motion
machine.
Berenson built his program by
instilling solid values and work
ethic in every player. Now, the
players pass down that ethic to
their younger counterparts. Even
though the college game is differ-
ent now, with more pressure on
players to go pro than ever before,
the system still works.
Berenson makes coaching look
easy, even though it's not.
Michigan fans used to take it
for granted that the football team
would make a bowl game. Think
again. The same goes for Kentucky
basketball in the NCAA Tourna-
ment and the New York Yankees in
the MLB playoffs.
Dynasties don't just last forever
without some driving force.
Some time in the future, Michi-
gan hockey will miss the NCAA
Tournament. Maybe not next year,
or even in 10 years, but some year
down the road.
It's no secret Berenson is getting
older, even though he still might
have the best backhand of anyone
on Michigan's bench. He recently
signed a one-year contract to coach
again next season, but he won't be
here forever.
Whenever Berenson decides
to step down, his legacy will be
secure.
His hockey program is the
example against which all others
should be measured.
And all others will have a hard
time measuring up.
-Sandals can be reached
at nsandals@umich.edu.

Tumblers notch
first win in
Columbus since '77
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
COLUMBUS - It may have
been the speech the coaches
gave before the meet, telling the
No. 5 Michigan men's gymnas-
tics team to just have fun.
It may have been senior co-
captain Phil Goldberg snipping
the head off a Brutus the Buck-
eye doll on the way to St. John
Arena.
Or it may have beenthe team's
air of confidence heading into
the meet, even though the Wol-
verines hadn't won in Columbus
since head coach Kurt Golder
competed for Michigan himself.
Whatever it was, it worked.
For the first time since 1977,
Michigan beat Ohio State in S
Columbus, 357.60-349.70. Mich-
igan not only got its highest
overall score of the year but regis-
tered season highs on four of its six
events against the sixth-ranked
Buckeyes.
And the Wolverines had the
time of their lives doing it.
"It was totally different," said
Michigan assistant coach Derek
Croad, who at one point danced
on the vault runway. "We were
joking, we were having fun. If
something went bad, we were still
having fun."
Even the coaches consciously
changed their mindsets. Golder
said spectators have often told
him he doesn't stop scowling until
the meet is over. In Columbus, he
made an effort to smile and relax,
even as the two teams added a new
chapter to the rivalry.
"Does anyone ever get their
peak performance when they're
uptight?" Golder asked rhetori-
cally. "Does anyone ever get their
best being timid? The answer is no.
Then, be confident. When you're
confident, it brings the best out of
you."
The saying held true for Michi-
gan. From the start, the Wol-
verines looked looser and more

a

a

SAI DALSLAH/Daly
enior Phil Goldberg, shown here on the pommel horse, scored a 15.20 on the still rings Saturday night in Michigan's rivalry win.

confident than they had all season.
The new mentality paid immedi-
ate dividends as they hit all six
pommel horse routines to open
the night.
Normally, a team starting on
pommel horse falls behind by a
significant margin after one rota-
tion as the other team competes in
the floor exercise, a higher-scoring
event. But after one event, Michi-
gan trailed the Buckeyes by just a
tenth of a point.
"When we walked in the doors,
we felt like we could win based
on our preparation throughout
the week in practice and our new
attitude," senior Ralph Rosso
said. "But I think what sealed
it was our pommel horse team,
staying so close to Ohio State on
floor."
After the floor exercise, where
sophomore Thomas Kelley won
the individual title, Michigan
grabbed a sizeable lead and never
let go. The gymnasts posted their
highest hit percentage of the sea-
son, hitting 31 of 35 sets. The few
missed routines came amid clus-
ters of clean performances.
The Wolverines cheered and
laughed their way through the

meet. They exploded for hit rou-
tines by redshirt freshman Devan
Cote, who Goldberg has dubbed
"The People's Champion," and led
responsive chants with the small
but vocal Michigan fan section.
"In my four years, this was
absolutely the most fun we've ever
had," said senior Scott Bregman,
who spent much of the meet imi-
tating a train and telling his team-
mates to board the Fun Express.
"This was the most laid-back
(meet) and probably one of the
best hit percentages. (Posting) our
season-high at Ohio State? That's
unheard of and ridiculous and
amazing."
Sophomore Chris Cameron,
who won the pommel-horse, par-
allel-bars and all-around titles,
performed the last Michigan set of
the night.
Returning to the bench, he
joked, "Should we start singing?"
All his teammates laughed but
waited until the very end of the
night for their celebration.
When the Wolverines win, they
sing "The Victors" together after
the meet. On Saturday, it followed
Ohio State's somber alma mater.
For Michigan's seniors, who

endured a loss to Illinois on their
own Senior Night last weekend,
the win was especially sweet. In
the final regular-season meet of
their careers and on the Senior
Night of their biggest rivals, they
left the stage exactly the way they
wanted to.
On Saturday, every senior pres-
ent crammed into the circle's cen-
ter to belt out their fight song.
"It felt like our Senior Night
as opposed to theirs," senior Joe
Catrambone said. "It was a pretty
good way to end a dual meet - my
last dual."
Catrambone, who tends to pace
nervously beside his events before
competing, looked relaxed in
Columbus. He waited comfortably
for the judge's signal to begin prior
to his high bar performance, going
on to post his best score of the sea-
son (15.1).
For the whole team, the meet
was concrete proof that staying
loose - and having fun - can
actually lead to winning.
"We actually did that," Cam-
eron said, marveling at the victory.
"Knowing we can do it and doing
it are two different things; and we
just did it."

a

a


4

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING STUDIES
Master's Degrees
Flexible full-time or part-time evening schedules
Human Resources Management
Journalism
Public Relations /
Corporate Communications
Real Estate
Sports Industry Management
Technology Management

I
6

4


1 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

March 23, 2009 - 3B

Softball Preview 2009

ROB M Ge N/Onily
Sophomore Jordan Taylor (left) and junior Nikki Nemitz (right) lead the Wolverines' pitching rotation this season after accounting for all 52 of Michigan's wins last season.
Pair of pitching aces lead Blue's NU sweeps 'M' in
rotation into the Big Ten season first Big Ten series

By IAN KAY tying run standing on second base,
Daily Sports Writer Hutchins called Taylor in from the
bullpen. The sophomore slammed
Michigan softball coach Carol the door, stranding the runner on
Hutchins wants her team to play base before striking out the side in
"one-pitch" softball. the seventh to secure the Wolver-
The idea is that no matter the ines' win.
score, situation or opponent, each It's that type of reliability in the
player on the field must execute circle that has been Michigan's
to the best of her ability on every greatest strength over the past two
single pitch. seasons.
But sometimes, it's hard not to After finishing last year with
look at the big picture. Entering the the top team ERA in the country
start of Big Ten play, the eighth- (0.88), the duo has pitched to a 1.03
ranked Wolverines stood at 20-7.- mark this year. Nemitz has won the
Anchored by a pair of aces in Big Ten Pitcher of the Week award
junior Nikki Nemitz and sopho- twice and Taylor has thrown two
more Jordan Taylor, Michigan is a no-hitters.
threat to win the conference title But both pitchers buy into
and advance deep into postseason Hutchins' system. Rather than
play. But to do so, the team will dwelling on their success, they pre-
need more consistent contributions fer to focus on just fulfilling their
from an offense that has swung roles on the team, with an emphasis
from dominant to anemic, often on on taking it one pitch at a time.
a game-to-game basis. "We count on them to keep us
in every game," Hutchins said.
ACES UP "They've done that thus far. Their
At the Judi Garman Classic from job is to keep us in the game until
Mar. 12-Mar. 15, Michigan faced our offense can win it."
five ranked teams in four days. It At times this season, that second
was the most daunting stretch of part has presented a problem.
what Hutchins called the tough-
est schedule she's faced in 25 years SLUMPS AND SURPRISES
as Michigan's head coach. But for The one game Michigan lost at
Nemitz, it was just another week- the Judi Garman Classic two weeks
end at the office. ago was a nailbiter.
The junior pitched in four games Against No. 3 Washington, Tay-
- all Michigan wins - and allowed for worked into and out of trouble
just two runs. Over 17.1 innings, she all day. She allowed an uncharacter-
struck out 24 batters and allowed istic 10 baserunners, but ultimately
just 15 to reach base. surrendered just one run - a solo
At the Classic, Nemitz was clear- home run in the second inning.
ly Michigan's best pitcher. But for By all accounts, Taylor kept
the season? That's debatable. Michigan in the game against one
"We have two No. 1 pitchers," of the top teams in the country.
Hutchins said. "We're the only But it wasn't enough.
team that I know of that can really The Huskies' Danielle Lawry
say that." held the Wolverines scoreless in a
Most college softball teams have dazzling 13-strikeout performance.
a clear top starter and then one or Against Lawry, Michigan's lack
more second-tier pitchers. In Nem- of offense was understandable. The
itz and Taylor, Hutchins has two junior is one of the top pitchers in
hurlers who she feels comfortable the nation with a 0.27 ERA and 10
with in any situation. The pair gen- shutouts in 17 starts. Unfortunately
erally alternates starts, but neither for the Wolverines, this wasn't an
has trouble pitching in a relief role. isolated incident.
-iFo-opponents,-Thipresents-a--Michigan-aver-ages-4.4-runs-per
nique problem. game, but it has also scored two
"You know that as a pitcher, you runs or fewer seven times. Only
don't have to carry the team," Nem- part of this can be attributed to the
'tz said. "If you're having an off difficultschedule.Severalmembers
ay, there's an All American com- of the starting lineup have suffered
ing behind you to pick you up. It's through extended hitting slumps.
like 'All right, you figured out this Dorian Shaw has just 9 RBI. At
one, now try to beat this All Ameri- this point last season, she had 17.
an."' Molly Bausher's on-base percent-
On Feb.13 at the Louisville Tour- age is hovering around .300. But no
ament, Louisville figured Nem- hitter has been more disappointing
itz out in the bottom of the sixth than Teddi Ewing.
'nning. A team captain and Michigan's
With Michigan clinging to a 3-2 only senior starter, Ewing seemed
lead, the Cardinals got a leadoff poised for a huge season after hit-
ingle and a sacrifice bunt. With the ting .347 last year. But she began

the season with just one hit in fidence, the coach reminds younger
Michigan's first seven games and team members that they aren't
has struggled to break out of the freshmen or sophomores, but sim-
funk since. ply Michigan softball players.
Ewing is a vocal leader on the "It shows a lot for the coaching
field and plays stellar defense at staff, making sure that they all they
shortstop, but her .115 batting aver- have just as much ability as any-
age is the worst on the team by one else on that field and not let-
more than 100 points. ting them think that since they're a
"It's probably a case of her just freshman they might not be able to
trying too hard and trying too do it," Ewing said.
hard to do all of the things a senior But Chidester's contributions
captain has to do," Hutchins said. aren't limited to the field. Accord-
"We've asked her to step back and ing to teammates - who refer to
play her game." her exclusively as "Chiddy" - her
Hutchins has limited Ewing's enthusiasm for the game and con-
at bats in recent games by pinch- stant energy bring a loose and fun
hitting for her in key situations, dynamic to the dugout and the
but the senior's confidence hasn't locker room. When asked in Feb-
waned. Ewing said she's still help- ruary about her first experience
ing the team in other ways and playing in real competition with
feels that she could break out of the the team, Chidester used the word
slump at any time. "awesome" four times in three sen-
"I go up there every time saying tences.
'This is it, I'm going to get a hit, I'm "Whatever is going on, she's
goingto have agood atbat,'"Ewing still jumping around the dugout,
said. "I don't ever go up there cheering and screaming her head
doubting that I can do it." off," Nemitz said. "It's great that
In a lineup that features three when you start getting frustrated
freshmen, Ewing's struggles could or something, you have Chiddy
be crippling - if one of those fresh- back there screaming her butt off
men wasn't Amanda Chidester. for you."
After committing to Michigan For an offense that has been
during her sophomore year of high frustrated many times this season,
school, Chidester was a fixture at it's also great to have Chidester
Wolverine softball camps and in knocking in runs.
the stands during home games.
Now that she's actually on the LOOKING FORWARD
field, the Allen Park native has The Big Ten looks to be a three-
wasted no time making her pres- team race this year, with Michigan
ence felt. A versatile player who has dueling Ohio State and perennial
seen time at five defensive positions power Northwestern for confer-
and designated player, she leads the ence superiority. With the elimina-
team in six offensive categories tion of the Big Ten tournament at
including batting average (.384) the end of the regular season, each
and RBI (17). series becomes even more impor-
Most importantly, her hits have tant.
come at the most crucial times. But Michigan should be ready.
Seven times, she has knocked in The Wolverines are battle-tested
Michigan's winning run. Against from 13games againstrankedoppo-
Florida State on Feb. 24, it was nents, including No. 2 Florida (4-0
Chidester's 13th inning RBI double loss) and defending national cham-
that proved the difference in a 1-0 pion Arizona (4-0 win). Michigan's
Michigan win. Many inexperi- pitching staff is dominant and the
enced players would be intimidated lineup has been adequate and has
in such a clutch situation. But that's the potential to be explosive. There
-never been Chidester's attitude I't-teamin-the-eountry-tha
"She looks at everything that should intimidate Michigan.
comes at her as an opportunity that "Hopefully that's whatthattough
she seems to relish, as opposed to schedule does for you," Hutchins
the burden of an expectation or said. "It prepares you for the rest
a challenge," Hutchins said. "She of the season. I feel like we're very
looks at it as an opportunity and you ready and very well prepared."
can see it in her eyes. She's always But that was enough big-picture
excited to come up with runners on outlook for the coach. From here on
base or the bases loaded." out, it's all about one-pitch softball.
The transitions of Chidester "We've learned why we played
and fellow freshmen Stephanie so well (at the Judi Garman Clas-
Kirkpatrick and Bree Evans to col- sic) was we were very one-pitch
lege softball have been eased by oriented, very moment-oriented,"
Hutchins' philosophy of judging Hutchins said. "We played staying
players based on talent and effort in our moment. We didn't get ahead
rather than age. To help instill con- of ourselves."

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Captain Angela Findlay
caine out, bat in hand, ready
to finish off the Wolver-
ines' opening series of the
Big Ten play at the Sharon
Drysdale Field in Evanston on
Sunday.
But she couldn't come away
with a big hit - it had just been
that kind of weekend for the
Wolverines.
Michigan fell behind early in
its first game to Northwestern
on Saturday. The Wolverines
fought their way back to a 5-5
tie before committing an error
that allowed the Wildcats to
score the winning run in Michi-
gan's 6-5 loss.
Sunday was a fresh start and
Findlay got a hit on her first at-
bat, giving her the confidence
she needed early.
She tallied the Wolverines'
second hit during her second
time at the plate.
"As far as the team goes, hit-
ting is definitely contagious,"
Findlay said. "When one of us
is hitting, all of us are hitting.
Once one of us gets a hit, then
it gives everyone else the confi-
dence that they can do it too."
Although she did register the
first two hits for the Wolverines
(20-9, 0-2 Big Ten) - the first a
bunt in the first inning and the
second a grounder in the top of
the third - to lead her team in
hits on Sunday, it wasn't enough
to take the second game of the
weekend against the Wildcats
(15-8, 2-0).
This weekend's series against
the Wildcats was the first time
Michigan has been swept by
Northwestern since 2000.
The two teams, historically
very closely matched, have split
five of their last eight Big Ten
series.
Despite Findlay's early hits
to boost her team's confidence

Sunday, a pitching dual ensued
between Michigan sophomore
Nikki Nemitz and Northwest-
ern pitcher Lauren Delaney.
Neither team had scored a
run headed into the fourth
inning.
When Nemitz gave up back-
to-back home runs to the first
two Northwestern at-bats in
the fourth, the Wildcats took a
2-0 lead that remained until the
seventh inning.
Nemitz quickly regained her
rhythm and struck out the next
batters after the Wildcats' home
runs to end the inning.
Meanwhile, Delaney, known
for her occasionally wild arm,
gave up only four hits all game
on Sunday, one of which the
Wolverines were able to convert
into a run.
She also hit three Wol-
verines on the weekend, but
luckily, all were able to ice their
bruises and escape unscathed.
"When you are playing a
team (with a wild pitcher), you
just know that some people are
going to get hit," Findlay said.
"And you hope that it's not going
to affect anyone for the rest
of the season. You can't think
about that going into the box or
you are not going to be able to
perform."
Finally, in the top of the sev-
enth with two outs, Michigan
got on the board with a home
run by sophomore Dorian
Shaw.
But Delaney erased the
Wolverines' comeback hopes
quickly, striking out the next
Michigan batter.
"Our coach tries not to
emphasize too much it's the Big
Ten, that now we have to win,"
Findlay said. "We just try to
treat every opponent the same.
Obviously, we want to do well
,but you can't have that in the
back of your head when you are
playing or else we aren't going
to do well."

A

I


4B - March 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

Baseball
Preview 2009

a


777
l , _ ,gym rr tr

The Ace of Michigan's staff

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Writer
Don Lund had never before been
to a championship.
During the 1945 Major League
Baseball season, Lund sat appre-
hensively in an office in New York
City. It would be his first contract
negotiation with a professional
team, and he struggled over num-
bers in his head to settle his con-
tract. Across from Lund sat Branch
Rickey, former Michigan baseball
coach and then-general manager
of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
Rickey offered the former Mich-
igan star outfielder his first profes-
sional contract with the Dodgers'
Triple-A team, the Montreal Roy-
als. Joining Lund on the Royals
was another man who was gaining
the scouts' and the nation's atten-
tion. It was in the 1947 season that
both would be called up to the
major leagues, and Lund would
watch his teammate - Jackie Rob-
inson - break the color barrier.
That year, the Dodgers earned a
spot in the World Series to take on
their cross-town rivals, the New
York Yankees. But Lund wasn't
there. Since he had spent some
time on the Dodgers' minor league
St. Paul team, he hadn't been
optioned to the Major Leagues
until after Sept. 1 and had to miss
the Dodgers' shot at the pennant.
Fifteen years later, as the
head coach of the Michigan var-
sity baseball team, Lund saw the
chance at a championship that he
had missed so many years ago sit-
ting right in front of him.
On June 16, 1962, at Omaha's
Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium, Lund
decided to use his best pitcher,
Fritz Fisher, against Santa Clara
in the final game of the College
World Series. It was the first time
the Wolverines had been there
since legendary coach Ray Fisher's
championship run in 1953.
Fritz Fisher and the rest of the
Wolverines had never seen a stadi-
um like "The Blatt." It was a spec-
tacle. But Fisher, the ace of Lund's
rotation, wasn't shaken by his
matchup with the Broncos. And
Lund knew that he wasn't going to
let this chance slip away.
"He was our number one, our
key guy," Lund said.
The Michigan ace went nine
innings, almost unheard of in
today's college game, and kept the
Wolverines' World Series hopes
alive. But after regulation, Lund's
team still had work to do.
In the 15th inning, on the coat-
tails of Fisher's first nine innings,
the Wolverines' left fielder
watched a pop fly soar toward
him through the Omaha sky. The
ball dropped into his glove, to give
Michigan its second-ever National
Championship. He lost his glove

in celebration while Lund's team,
steered by the resiliency of its ace
pitcher, won its coach the champi-
onship he'd been looking for.
Forty-seven years removed from
that game, the Michigan baseball
program hasn't been back to the
final round of the College World
Series since.
And in his seventh season as
Michigan baseball's head coach,
Rich Maloney knows that he needs
a workhorse in the mold of Fritz
Fisher to get the Wolverines back
to Omaha.

A PAIR OF ACES
Last season, the stars seemed to
be aligned for the Michigan pitch-
ing rotation.
The Wolverines boasted two
All-Americans on the mound in
then-senior Zach Putnam and
then-junior Chris Fetter, both of
whom Maloney said could almost
guarantee a win in the weekend
series' first two games.
"We always felt like we had two
Friday night starters last year,"
Maloney said. "We had two fan- TheMichigan Daily bas
tastic pitchers that you knew on comingintotlie Big Ten
any given day, the other team
would have them starting on Fri- STAFF PICKS
day night."
But Putnam, Maloney's No. 1 The Daily baseball b
in the rotation, was drafted by makes its predictior
the Cleveland Indians in the fifth
round of last year's MLB Draft. seaSon.
That left Fetter, a 10-game win-
ner last season, to fill the void of These writers look it
Michigan's ace. future to guess who
The position was one Lund was it all - and who wil
all too familiar with. disappointing.
Fritz Fisher wasn't slated to
be Lund's ace pitcher until just Michigan overalrecod
before the 1962 season began, Michigan Big Ten record
when his original game- Mic Mae
changer, Mike Joyce, Michigan Pitcher of the Year
was signed to a pro-
Michigan Freshman of the Ye

a

eball beat pored over the numbers and came up with the Wolv
season.

beat
s for the
nto the
will win
I just be

Chantel Ryan
Jennings Kartje

r
/ear


fessional contract. It left
Lund's team in the hands
of an unproven leader. But
it paid dividends.
And this season, pitch-
ing coach Bob Keller has
no problem putting the
rotation in the hands of
his four-year starter.
"Putnam was our ace
last year," Keller said. "And
r you don't often get a chance
to work with that type of
talent. But (Fetter) had to
work harder to be where he
is today ... He is going to go
down as one of the winningest
pitchers in Michigan baseball."
CARMEL DELIGHT
In 2004, Carmel High School
baseball coach Greg Lentz
learned how important having
an established ace in your pitch-
ing rotation is to a team's suc-
cess.
Against one of the top teams
in the state of Indiana that year
- Indianapolis Bishop Chatard
- Lentz, Fetter's high school
coach, put Fetter in one of the
most difficult matchups of his
career. It was Lentz's first year

Big Ten Regular Season Champion
Big Ten Regular Season Runner-Up
Big Ten Regular Season Third Place
Big Ten Tournament champion
Big Ten Tournament Runner-Up
ig Ten MVPA
Big Ten Surprise Team
Big Ten Disappointing Team
Michigan Season Ends Here
NationalChampion
at the helm and the first time he
completely put the game in one of
his pitcher's hands.
Fetter, a high school junior atthe
time, responded by allowing just
one hit, dictating the entire game
from his place on the mound.
"At that point, I knew he had
the ability to be a pitcher who
dominated the game," Lentz said.
"When he was on the mound, he
had the potential to completely
dominate the opposing team."
In the Wolverines' NCAA
regional matchup against Arizona
last season, Maloney put Putnam
in the batting order as a designated
hitter toshore up the offense. That
left Fetter to take on the Wildcat
offense in Michigan's most impor-
tant game of the season.
Through the first three innings,
Fetter had allowed four runs and
Michigan's offense hadn't contrib-
uted. -
But Fetter rebounded to allow
only three hits the rest of the way,
and in Fritz Fisher-like fashion,
pitched a complete game. Although
the Wolverines could manage just
three runs and fell short of a come-

44-11
18-6
Ryan LaMarre
Fetter
Coley Crank
Illinois
Michigan
Ohio State
Michigan
Ohio State
Alex wimmers, OhioState
Minnesota
Northwestern
Super Regionals
Texas

45-10
19-5
Chris Fetter
Fetter
JohnLorenz
Michigan
Ohio State
Illinois
Ohio State
Michigan
Fetter
Minnesota
Northwestern
Super Regionals
North Carolina

43-12
19-5
LaMare
Fetter
Lorenz
Michigan
Otho State
Illinois
Otio State
Michigan
wmriers
Minnesota
Purdae
Super Regionals
cal StateFullerton

I
I

back, the game served as Fetter's
coronation as Michigan's ace for
the 2009 season.
In a rematch of that game this
season, Fetter allowed just one
earned run to Arizona and one
unearned run on a passed ball.
His 7.1-inning effort was one of his
strongest of the season thus far, but
the offense was shut out, handing
Fetter his first loss of the season.
When the offense is manufactur-
ing runs like it did this past week-
end against IPFW (17 total runs),
Maloney knows that Fetter will set
the tone of how his team pitches.
"He's our leader on the mound,"
Maloney said. "It's going to be sig-
nificant that he is good every Fri-
day night. Call it what we will, but
the bottom line is we've got (Fet-
ter), and then we've got some other
guys who we think can be good."
Those "other guys" are Fetter's
focus.
"I've been through a lot of bat-
tles here at Michigan," Fetter said.
"I've seen countless games. So
when a situation arrives that I've
been through, I've got to take a guy
under my wing and keep reaching

out to the younger guys."
He's spent much of this season
adjusting to his leadership role,
which Keller and the rest of the
staff hope will translate into sig-
nificant support behind Fetter in
the rotation.
"When you set the tone like
(Fetter) does, that kind of thing
becomes contagious," Keller said.
"One guy learns from another,
and you start multiplying leaders.
That's what he's been able to do
thus far."
ESPN baseball expert Buster
Olney recently made a list of Major
League Baseball's indispensable
players. And it's no coincidence
that six of those 10 players were
the aces of their pitching staff.
"If you canhavethatgreat pitcher,
someone to just get the ball over the
plate whenever youneed himto, then
you're doing quite well," Lund said.
And 47 years after Lund's indis-
pensable pitcher was the cata-
lyst in the Wolverines' last World
Series win, Fetter is the ace that
Michigan needs to take the reins if
they want to see the hallowed field
in Omaha again this year.

FILE PHO

Behind strong pitching effort, 'M' Nine sweep IPFW

1 1

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan baseball coach Rich
Maloney describes his team as a
bunch of dirtbags.
Respectfully.
"(It's) someone who is willing for
the good of the team to do whatever
it takes to get it done," Maloney said.
"Diving for a ball, taking it off the
chest, getting hit by the pitch and
running to first base ... doing what-
ever it takes to lay his body in front
for the good of the team - that kind
of an attitude."
And this weekend, as the team
opened its home slate at Ray Fisher
Stadium, the Wolverines' dirtbag
attitude was on full display. Michi-
gan swept away visiting Indiana
University-Purdue University Fort
Wayne in a three-game series.
Michigan improved throughout
the weekend, winning 4-2, 4-1 and
9-2.
But yesterday, the IPFW Mast-
odons (15-10) took an early 1-0 lead
over the Wolverines in the top of the
third inning before Michigan junior

first baseman Mike Dufek connect-
ed on a two-run home run to put the
Wolverines (14-5) on the board.
Dufek shined inthe spotlight dur-
ing the series, hitting 5-for-10, tally-
ing two home runs and six RBI.
"Mike's a special player and he's
been waiting in the wings," Malo-
ney said. "He's been groomed for
this moment. So it's not by surprise.
I thought that he'd hit really well."
But batting was just one of the
areas in which Michigan excelled
during the series. Behind starting
pitchers senior Chris Fetter, junior
Eric Katzman and senior Mike Wil-
son, Michigan slowed down IPFW
and allowed just five runs during
the series.
Despite allowing numerous
Mastodon baserunners, the Michi-
gan defense stifled IPFW scoring
threats.
"(The pitchers) battled through
some tough situations," Maloney
said. "They kind of did the 'bend,
don't break.' They had runners on
and (IPFW) could have had a big
inning, but we didn't allow it. They
came up with a big pitch when they

had to."
Maloney relied on three sopho-
more relief pitchers - Tyler Bur-
goon, Matt Miller and Travis Smith
- to pitch three innings in each
game. And despite their inexperi-
ence on the mound, the trio only
gave up combined one run in Michi-
gan's first home appearance.
With Friday's win, Maloney
improved to 7-0 in home openers as
Michigan's skipper.
"One thing we take pride in is
protecting this house," senior Mike
Wilson said. "We've been able to
do a good job of that over the years.
We're a very tough team to beat in
general, especially at home."
The Wolverines found them-
selves down early in two of the
three games this weekend. The
Mastodons scored two runs Fri-
day before Dufek hit a long double
to bring in senior Kevin Cislo and
sophomore Ryan LaMarre.
But it was a familiar situation for
the Wolverines. They have let them-
selves fall behind several times this
season, only to post comeback victo-
ries. In Michigan's first game of the

season, on Feb. 20, it trailed South
Florida 3-0 before coming back to
win 6-5. The very next day, the Wol-
verines spotted Purdue a 2-0 lead
before surging late to win 4-3.
"We have found ourselves behind
many times ... but we've had some
success in coming back," Maloney
said. "It's certainly better if we had
a big lead early, it would certainly
make me sleep better. Neverthe-
less, that's a good characteristic of
a team that they have a lot of fight
in their battle, with a never-say-die
attitude."
And with only one game between
now and the Big Ten season opener
against Iowa next Friday, Maloney
is confident that his dirtbags will
answer the call.
On Wednesday, Michigan hosts
Eastern Michigan, a team that will
be looking for revenge from last
week when the Wolverines beat the
Eagles 11-5 in Ypsilanti.
"We know that we are supposed
to win," Dufek said. "It's only a mat-
ter of us focusing and playing well
and we should be able to win the I
game."

GETTING TO KNOW THE CAPTAINS

My favorite baseball player...
one word that describes coach Rich Maloney...
If I played another varsity sport, it would be...
My childhood dreamjob...
Expectations for this season...

Tim Kalczynski, C
Tigers 1B Cecil Fielder
Passionate
Basketball
Doctor
Win the Big Ten title

Kevin Cislo, 2B
Cardinals SS Ozzie Smith
Passionate
Football
Orthodontist
Win the Big Ten title and go
to regionals

Chris Fetter, SP,
Giants P Randy Johnson
Enthusiastic
- Basketball
Doctor
Win the Big Ten title

0

A

A


4 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

March 23, 2009 - 5B

i Despite loss to
Irish,'M' grabs
last No. 1 seed

Wolverines to travel
to Bridgeport, Conn.
as top seed in
East Regional
ByCHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
While the Michigan hockey
team's third-period collapse
against Notre Dame Saturday may
have cost it the CCHA Champion-
ship, the game meant little to the
NCAA Tournament selection com-
mittee.
Michigan's fate was already
sealed. There was essentially no
chance of playing in Grand Rapids
due to the fact the Fighting Irish
had already locked upa spot in that
regional. The Wolverines were
projected to travel east and play in
one of the two regionals among the
New England states.
And sure enough, when the
Wolverines woke up yesterday
morning and gathered in the Yost
Ice Arena locker room, they got
exactly what they predicted.
No. 3 Michigan will play Air
Force in the opening round of the
East Regional in Bridgeport, Conn.
Should the Wolverines win, they
would play the winner of Yale vs.
Vermont in the second round.
"We knew we'd be a No. 1 seed,
and we knew regardless of this
weekend we'd probably end up
in an eastern regional, and it'd
probably be Bridgeport, so it's as
expected," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said. "I'm glad we're in
the tournament again, and when
you look back in the fall there were
questions whetherthisteamwould
even be in the tournament, so good
for them."
Air Force's offense largely
depends on Jacques Lamoureux,
the nation's leading goal scorer.
But Air Force's rsum6 boasts lit-
tle else other than simply winning
the weak Atlantic Hockey Confer-
ence.
Heading down the stretch, the
question for the Wolverines was
whetherthey would earn a coveted
seed close to home. Playing in the
state of Michigan has been a huge
advantage for Michigan in years
past. It won the National Champi-
AUERBACH
From page 1B
"If we play like (Saturday),
then our next game will be our
last game," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said after the 5-2 loss.
After all, nobody expected a
third-period collapse - the Irish's
four-goal frame coupled with
Michigan's measly eight shots on
goal. Prior to Saturday's game,
the Wolverines had outscored
opponents 51-30 in the third this
season.
Maybe the pressure got to
sophomore goalie Bryan Hogan.
It was just the fourth postseason
start of his career, and the match-
up had been intimidating with
Hogan stacked against vaunted
Notre Dame senior Jordan
Pearce, one of the best netmind-
ers in the nation.

The Wolverines argued it
wasn't just one player that cost
them the game, and they're
right. It wasn't just Hogan giv-
ing up those goals. The Michi-
gan defense, an overlooked and
underrated strength of this team
during its hot second half, fell
apart. Irish forwards had no trou-
ble intercepting passes or navi-
gating the Wolverine zone, and
ichigan, a team that prides itself
n blocking shots, tallied just one

onship in 1996 and 1998 after play-
ing in in-state regionals.
If the first round games go
according to seeding, Michigan
would play Yale in the second
round in Bridgeport, which is just
30 minutes from Yale's campus in
New Haven, Conn.
But senior forward Tim Miller
thinks there are benefits to getting
out of the state too.
"I think it's good to get out there
and you don't have to worry too
much about distractions," Miller
said. "It's just the team out there
and you can focus about playing
hockey."
Berenson said the Wolverines
are used to hostile circumstances
in the tournament.
"I don't care where we go, and I
don't care who we play, it's how we
play that's important," Berenson
said. "If we end up playing Yale out
there, we had to play Wisconsin
in Wisconsin and we had to play
(New Hampshire) in Manchester a
few years ago."
Michigan won in Madison in
1995 and in Manchester in 2004.
The biggest controversy in the
selection was the pairing of top-
ranked Boston University with No.
4 seed Ohio State. Usually, the top
seed is protected in the first round
by playing the weakest team that
made the NCAA Tournament and
Bemidji State was considered to be
that team. But since rules stipulate
that conference teams can't play
each other in the regionals - and
both the Buckeyes and Miami
(Ohio) are No. 4 seeds and couldn't
play either Notre Dame or Michi-
gan - theyhad to be matched with
Boston University and Denver.
While Michigan is not favored
like they were last year and might
not have the same pressure as a
team like Notre Dame or Boston
University has, expectations are
still high. But the Wolverines think
they can do some damage.
"The best teams we've played
this year have been (Boston Uni-
versity) and Notre Dame, and if
there's anyone better in the tour-
nament, we'll find out in the next
two weeks," Berenson said. "But
I think we can play with those
teams. We're not as experienced
and not as old, but on a given
night, we can play with those
teams."
block in the final period.
"Goals against are precious this
time of the year," senior defense-
man Mark Mitera said. "Defense
is what's going to win us games
this (coming) weekend. Two
goals for, five against - you're not
going to go anywhere."
It's hard to call Saturday's loss
a wake-up call for the Wolverines.
With just a handful of games left
in the season at best, Michigan
knew it couldn't play a sloppy
period like that.
But now, the Wolverines have
no choice but to learn from the
loss and move on.
They've learned they can't just
hope a one- or two-goal lead will
stand up against the nation's best
competition. They have to main-
tain it with smothering defense,
consistent goaltending and solid
backchecking.
They've also learned they have
to play desperately, like the Irish
did, with the season on the line -
which, from now on, is every time
they step on the ice.
"Where we're at in the season,

no loss is a good loss," junior
defenseman Chris Summers said.
"We have a week to prepare for
next weekend, and it's do-or-die
from there."
- Auerbach can be reached
at naauer@umich.edu.

Sophomore Bryan Hogan, shown here against Western Michigan, was nn track tn bane a treat CCHA Tournament until tovne up tsar toals in the lbird perind Saturday.
Hoan dfese g iveTA up five.
unnwee goals in I'll oss

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
DETROIT - In his first five peri-
ods of the CCHA Championships,
sophomore goalie Bryan Hogan
gave up just two goals.
Hogan arrived at Joe Louis Arena
as argu-
ably the NOTRE DAME 5
most over-MICHIGAN 2
looked
goalie of the four in Detroit. His
Alaska counterpart in the semi-
finals, senior Chad Johnson, was
named the conference's Player of
the Year. Notre Dame goalie Jor-
dan Pearce, who was between the
opposing pipes in the championship
game Saturday, came in with a bet-
ter goals-against average, save per-
centage and win percentage.
Yet it was Hogan, in the midst
of shutting down the nation's No. 2
team, who was outshining them all
- atleastuntilthefloodgatesopened
in the final frame and Hogan let in
four goals on 12 shots, sealing a 5-2
Fighting Irish victory and CCHA
Tournament title.
It was the Wolverines' first loss in
nine games at the Joe, datingback to
a 2-loss in the 2007 CCHA finals to
Notre Dame.
"It was a tough game for Hogie,"
said Michigan coach Red Beren-
SPRING PRACTICE
From page 1B
to dodge the shield after suc-
cessfully fielding the punt. The
coach laughed, yelled at Mathews,
retrieved the shield and did it again.
Saturday's spring practice, the
second with pads, meant the Wol-
verines were more physical in their
drills. Outside on the team's brand-
new practice turf, the crack of the
players' shoulder pads echoed across
the field as they crashed into each
other while practicing field-goal
blocking. Partway through prac-
tice, during a one-on-one blocking
drill, the yells of the players nearly
drowned out the rap music blaring
through the temporary sound sys-
tem.
With increased contact came
increased enthusiasm - and the
intensity is likely to only increase
next Saturday, when Rodriguez
said the Wolverines plan to have
their first full-scale scrimmage.

son, who added Sunday that Hogan
would remain the team's starter in
the NCAA Tournament. "Even the
first goal was a goal I don't know if
he saw, but it wasn't a good goal, and
the pucks started to go in on him.
And it was one of those games where
it was the goalie's worst nightmare,
the puck going in too easy."
Despite the loss, Michigan still
earned the final No. 1 seed for the
upcoming NCAA Tournament in
the East Regional. The Wolverines
will face Air Force on Friday in
Bridgeport, Conn.
Notre Dame's first goal seemed
inconsequential at the time. It came
more than halfway through the sec-
ond period, and the Wolverines still
held a one-goal lead at the end of the
frame. Michigan had only lost once
before - 2-1 to Western Michigan
in November - when it led entering
the third.
But Notre Dame freshman
forward Billy Maday's lamp-
lighter turned out to be a momen-
tum-changer.
"Once they got their first goal -
that was an easy goal - we were get-
ting bounces, and then they started
getting the bounces and that's kind
of how the game went," Berenson
said. "That first goal gave them life
and got them back in the game. Had
we got the next goal, the game was
Until then, it's all about learning the
basics. -
"We're installing some new
defensive stuff, and a lot of fresh-
men are playing for the first time,"
Rodriguez said. "They're still swim-
ming and that's slowing down our
installation a bit, but that's okay
because our primary focus is getting
better fundamentally."
All four practices this spring have
been outdoors. Unlike in recent sea-
sons, the weather hastreated Michi-
gan well - and the Wolverines hope
it will stay warm and sunny for their
final practice and spring scrimmage
in three weeks.
It's Rodriguez's second spring
with the Wolverines, but for all
intents and purposes, this April 11
will mark his first spring game.
Last spring's 100-play scrimmage
was closed to the public and held at
Saline High School due to Big House
construction. About 2,500 boosters,
family members and friends were in
attendance, but many left early due

probably over, but that didn't hap-
pen."
Instead, the Irish scored again
one minute and 45 seconds into
the third off forward Calle Ridder-
wall's redirect in front of the net.
Moments later, Notre Dame for-
ward Ben Ryan closed in towards
the goal from the bottom left circle.
He sent the puck past senior captain
Mark Mitera (who finished minus-
two on the night) and beat Hogan
top right shelf.
The two-goal Wolverine lead
built up by freshmen Luke Glen-
dening and David Wohlberg in the
opening 23 minutes disappeared
within 20 seconds.
Before the Irish added a couple
more tallies in the final 10 minutes,
Michigan had never given up more
than three even-strength goals in an
entire game, let alone in a 20-min-
ute period.
"Hogan was working hard and
that's all you can ask for," Summers
said. "It was a team loss and I don't
think that anything should have to
do with Hogan. It's five guys on the
ice."
After the NCAA Tournament
selection show on Sunday, Beren-
son said he wasn't worried about
Hogan's confidence for Friday's
opening-round game against Air
Force, the East Regional's lowest
to the rainy, cold weather. Rodri-
guez and the Athletic Department
said in a press release Thursday that
they are aiming for about 40,000
fans to attend this year's spring
game at Michigan Stadium. And in
an effort to encourage attendance,
the Wolverines are planning addi-
tional pre-spring game events.
Early on the morning of April
11, the Michigan locker room will
be open for tours and photos. Two
hours before the spring game, the
Wolverines will host an hour-long
alumni flag football game. Though
the rosters have yet to be deter-
mined, the Athletic Department
announced that Gary Moeller (head
coach from 1990 to 1994) will coach
the Maize team and Jerry Hanlon
(longtime assistant coach under Bo
Schembechler) will coach the Blue
team.
Michigan's spring game techni-
cally takes place during the Wol-
verines' last practice and is not
considered a formal spring scrim-

seed. He cited Michigan State goalie
Jeff Lerg's lackluster performance
in the CCHA Championships two
years ago and how the goaltender
turned things around to lead the
Spartans to a national title.
Just before their miracle run,
Lerg surrendered 11 goals at the Joe,
including a 5-2 semifinal loss and
narrow 7-6 overtime win over Lake
Superior State in the third-place
game.
Berenson's example was echoed
by Summers and Miller on Sunday
as the three put Hogan's poor per-
formance in perspective entering
the final weekends of the season.
"Hogan's a tough kid," Summers
said Sunday. "It's how he reacts to it
and how he responds in this week's
practice and the next game coming
up. I think he's a tough enough kid
that he can come fully prepared and
play the best that he can."
No matter how he bounces back,
it's difficult to get rid of the sour
taste of seeing five periods of solid
hockey unravel when the team is
20 minutes away from a champion-
ship.
"Obviously, we've got to regroup,
whether it's defensively, offensively,
goalkeeping, everything," Berenson
said. "It was a disappointing third
period. Otherwise, I thought we
played a good game."
mage. In 2007, public attendance
at the final practice was estimated
at 5,500, according to Big Red Net-
work. In comparison, Michigan
State's 2007 spring game attendance
was estimated at 25,000 and Ohio
State's was estimated at 75,310. Both
teams hold formal spring games.
Rodriguez said on Mar. 10 that
sometime in the next two years,
he wants the Wolverines to "set
the world record in attendance at
a spring game." But even with add-
ing extra attractions on game day,
Michigan has a long way to go. Ala-
bama currently holds the spring
game attendance record of 92,138
people.
"It's not as important from a
coachingstandpoint what we do, but
it is important from an atmosphere
standpoint, particularly for some of
these young guys to play in front of a
crowd and get some of those nerves
out of the way and get a feel for what
the Big House may be like in the
fall," Rodriguez said Saturday.


If

1
t

First Annual Victors Run for
Diabetes Awareness 5k
Hosted by Students for Diabetes Awareness
Saturday, April 4th at 11:00AM
at The Nichols Arboretum
To Register visit our website:
SDAumich.wordpress.com or Active.com
$20 online before the event
$25 day of
For more information contact:
SDABoardMembers@umich.edu

- UARTS 250 -
"CREATIVE PROC$
AN INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
Am
In residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
May 18 - June 12, 2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Satisfies the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
you are in rested, please contact Mary Schmidt, maryanna@umich.edu, for more information
aking creativity an integral part of students' lives and work.
ONEARTH
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
This courseis supportedy the University o Michi an's
Multidisciplinary Learning and Team TeachingInitiative

I I

I


6B - March 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

68 - March 23, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 6

Luke wins NCAA Championship

By MIKE FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
Five years, 141 matches and an
undefeated senior season culminat-
ed in one final feat Saturday in St.
Louis for Michigan wrestler Steve
Luke.
At the NCAA Championships,
Luke (174 pounds) proved deserv-
ing of the No. 1 ranking he held all
year by beating Central Michigan's
seventh-ranked Mike Miller 8-4 in
his last collegiate match. The win
gave Michigan its first individual
wrestling national championship
since 2005.
The victory also avenged the loss
he suffered in the national finals a
year ago.
"Last year, I was really nervous,"
Luke said. "I don't think I was men-
tally prepared going into the match,
while this year, I think I had a lot
more confidence. I felt really good
when I was running out to the
mat."
But Luke's championship almost
didn't happen. His semifinal match
with No. 5 Missouri senior Ray-
mond Jordan went into overtime.
Jordan had a chance to score,
grabbing hold of one of Luke's legs.
But Luke kept Jordan from get-
ting into a better position to score
and eventually, the referee called a
stalemate.
"There is nobody I would rather
put into an overtime match than
Steve Luke," Michigan coach Joe
SOONERS
From page 1B
up with the scoring role, and I just
took the shots that I think Coach
would want me to take."
The officials' calls proved to be
another obstacle Saturday. In the
second half, Beilein was called for
a technical after repeatedly asking
a referee, 'What are we supposed
to do?' after freshman Zack Novak
was called for a foul when Blake
Griffin knocked him down while
powering up for a layup.
Harris and fifth-year senior C.J.
Lee both fouled out for the first
time all season, and, by looking
at the Michigan players' faces, it
was easy to tell how they felt about
some of the calls.
Regardless, Michigan still
couldn't stop Griffin. The Wolver-
ines used their 1-3-1 and 2-3 zone
defenses as well as double-teams
to try and slow the sophomore,
who notched his 28th double-dou-
ble of the season with 33 points
and 17 rebounds.
"There was no way we could

McFarland said. "He has great
positioning. He is extremely hard
to score on, you can't get to his legs
and when you do, it is very difficult
to score on him."
Luke's championship match
opponent was familiar.
He and Miller grew up in nearby
towns in Ohio and matched up ear-
lier in the year, with Luke winning,
10-4.
"My style matches up well with
him," Luke said. "He's a pretty
strongkid and he would win match-
es by just pushing the pace, but a
lot of times, he stands flat-footed.
When I wrestle people who are flat-
footed, Iam usually able to getin on
their legs and score and that's what
happened both times I wrestled
him this year."
With his performance, Luke
gained his third career All-Ameri-
can honor. His co-captain fifth-year
senior Tyrel Todd (197 pounds) also
earned his third honor, while soph-
omore Kellen Russell (141 pounds)
earned his first. The three per-
formances helped Michigan to an
11th-place team finish. Big Ten rival
Iowa took the overall team champi-
onship
Fourth-seeded Todd, who came
back from a torn ACL earlier in
the year, advanced to the semifi-
nals and matched up with the No.
1 seed, Craig Brester of Nebraska.
Todd scored an early takedown but
was not able to keep the pace after
hyper-extending his elbow, falling
stand there and slug it out with
them," Beilein said. "Like I said,
this is one fantastic player on one
very good team. There's no way we
could just matchup and say, 'Okay,
we're going to slug it out with you
in man-to-man.' We had to keep
changing."
The strategy worked to an
extent, forcing turnovers and mak-
ing it difficult for Griffin at times.
But Beilein said the 11 turnovers
weren't enough. Oklahoma point
guard Austin Johnson and Warren
combined for six 3-pointers, mak-
ing it difficult for the Michigan
defense to focus entirely on Grif-
fin.
"Our guys played as hard, as
well as we could tonight," Beilein
said. "I think we're a better team
than we played tonight, but it just
didn't work that way."
Oklahoma's quick 8-0 run to
start the second half forced Michi-
gan to play from behind the rest of
the game.
Despite that pressure, the Wol-
verines stayed competitive for the
most part, even cutting the deficit
to three with 6:04 left. The Soon-

7-2.
"He struggled a little with that
elbow the rest of the bout, and I
think it had a bearing on the out-
come," McFarland said. "But I was
real proud of him, how he was able
to come back ... and be an All-Amer-
ican for a third time, that is pretty
impressive."
Todd was defeated in the third-
place match to finish fourth.
Russell, the No. 1 seed in his
class, was one of many victims of
upsets in his weight class. After
leading his second-round match for
most of the bout, he was pinned by
Illinois' Ryan Prater.
Despite the loss, Russell recov-
ered to win five straight consola-
tion matches to finish seventh - the
highest he could place after losing
so early.
"He got caught in a defensive
tilt," McFarland said. "He got
caught and pinned and those things
happen sometimes. It was sort of a
shocker for all of us. I liked the way
he was able to come back and earn
All-American status. This will be a
buildingblock for Kellen."
Although Russell is well on his
way to earning more than one All-
American honor, he can't fill the
void of the departingseniors alone.
Leaving with the seniors are
more than 200 combined wins, six
All-American honors and one indi-
vidual national championship. The
question of who fills that hole won't
be answered until next November.
ers surged in the final two min-
utes, ending Michigan's comeback
bid.
It was the final collegiate game
for seniors Lee, David Merritt, and
Jevohn Shepherd, a trio that was
instrumental in the Wolverines'
11-win improvement from 2008.
"We had some Kleenexes out in
(the locker room)," Beilein said.
"They have been virtually no-
maintenance, team-first guys from
the very beginning."
Before the season Beilein said
the campaign would be a "roller
coaster." But there's no denying
there were more ups than downs
in 2009, capped with the pro-
gram's first NCAA Tournament
appearance since 1998 and a first
round win over No. 7 Clemson last
Thursday.
"I'm definitely proud of our
guys and program," Lee said. "I'm
proud of the possibility of where
we can go and these guys did not
stop until it's all over. That's all you
can ask as a senior of your fellow
teammates. That's all a coach can
ask of his players. So, I'll remem-
ber that forever."

a
a

cLuF REEDER/Daily
Michigan fans cheer on their team during the Wolverines' loss to Oklahoma at the NCAA Tournament in Kansas City.

FANS
From page 1B
thought that we'd be gone by the
time they were really good. This
is just the best possible thing that
I could have wished for, mak-
ing it to the second round of the
NCAAs."
Armed with a maize-and-blue
and mullet-style wig, a Michigan
jersey, a friend who had no more
than $80 available for the trip
and enough patience to make the
12-hour drive to the Sprint Cen-
ter, Rosin made his NCAA dreams
come true this weekend.
He, along with about 1,000
other rowdy Michigan fans, made
Kansas City a welcoming atmo-
sphere for the Wolverines - and a
hostile one for Clemson and Okla-

homa.
Hours before Thursday's game
against the Tigers, hundreds of
Michigan faithful took over a
pep rally across the street from
the arena. Michigan, Clemson,
Oklahoma and Morgan State each
got 20 minutes to showcase their
band and cheer teams.
Belligerent Wolverine fans in
attendance saw their opportunity
to strike as the Clemson band,
cheerleaders and tiger mascot
took the stage.Animpromptu ren-
dition of "The Victors" drowned
out the introduction, and the
few Clemson fans in attendance
seemed taken aback.
Rosin equated the atmosphere,
in which strangers wearing Mich-
igan apparel shouted "Go Blue" to
one another from across the street
or concourse, to the 2007 Rose

Bowl, which he also attended.
"At the Rose Bowl, it was cool to
see how people from around the
country came out to support their
team," Rosin said. "But I love this
(NCAA Tournament regional).
You get eight different teams that
come up here, you know, drive
however many hours. I just love
the atmosphere here."
Michigan, Clemson, Oklaho-
ma, Maryland, Memphis, Califor-
nia, Morgan State and Cal-State
Northridge played in the Sprint
Center over the weekend -- and
all were well-represented.
And even with the loss to Okla-
homa on Saturday, Michigan fans
stood and sang the fight song
again in the final minute of regu-
lation, relieved that the long wait
for an NCAA Tournament game
was finally over.

Beilein makes quick
return to Big Dance


By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
KANSAS CITY, Mo. - When
Michigan coach John Beilein
entered the locker room follow-
ing Saturday's 73-63 second-round
loss to Oklahoma, he saw a group
of players with
heads bowed in NOTEBOOK
disappointment
- a group that was taught never to
be satisfied with a loss.
He didn't say much. What he did
say was that he was appreciative of
their hard work, and that he was
proud to be a Michigan man.
But Beilein hasn't been at Mich-
igan for very long. In his second
year in Ann Arbor, he overcame
low expectations by bouncingback
from a 10-22 season and led the
Wolverines to the Big Dance.
Michigan is the fourth school
Beilein has led to the NCAA Tour-
nament in his five appearances. He
has compiled a 7-5 record in the
Tournament.
Richmond is the only Beilein
team that reached the Tourna-
ment at a faster pace. The Spiders
reached the second round in his
first season.
But this season might be more
impressive. At Richmond, he
inherited a senior-laden squad. He
came to Ann Arbor to find just one
senior and three juniors.
Beilein will be rewarded for his
work. He is set to receive a $25,000
bonus for making the tourna-
ment - a figure which would have
increased to $50,000 if Michigan
had knocked off the Sooners.
Athletic Director Bill Martin is
more than happy to cough up the
money.
"John had to take a program
that has been off the charts for
two decades almost, and he did it

in two years," Martin said after the
game. "I think you'll just see us in
the future continue to improve."
CROWDED: As redshirt fresh-
man center Ben Cronin walked
across the court and took his seat
in the first row opposite the Michi-
gan bench before Saturday's game,
one inebriated fan awkwardly
hugged the 7-footer.
Cronin just smiled.
Cronin, along with walk-on
freshman guard Corey Person and
head manager Alex Gravlin, were
forced to sit in the stands due to
NCAA limitations on who can sit
on the bench.
Only active players and coaches
are allowed to sit on the bench for
NCAA Tournament games. Since
both players were redshirted, they
were forced into the crowd.
For the first time, the players
found themselves taking part in
the Michigan cheers.
"They were doing some of the
cheers and I was like, 'I always
wanted to do this cheer,' but you
can't be doing a cheer when you're
on the bench," Person said after
Michigan knocked off Clemson on
Thursday. "It almost made us clos-
er with the fans because we got to
interact with them."
Asked if he would paint his face
for the Oklahoma game, Cronin
laughed and said, "I don't think so.
We're still players."
Brian Townsend, Michigan
director of basketball operations,
was also relegated to the stands.
Before Michigan's win against
Clemson, fifth-year senior guard
DavidMerrittpointedatTownsend
from the bench, reminding the for-
mer Wolverine linebacker where
he reallybelonged.
WRIGHTED: Before the Okla-
homa game, Beilein went down the
line of players on the bench, giving

high-fives and saying "Be ready, be
ready."
Little did he know how early he
would have to rely on his reserves.
With two quick fouls less than
five minutes into the game, soph-
omore forward Manny Harris
walked to the bench. So did Michi-
gan's best chance of keeping up
with the powerful Sooner offense.
And when junior forward
DeShawn Sims took a seat after
forward Blake Griffin inadvertent-
ly poked him in the eye, the Wol-
verine attack was even weaker.
As Harris exited the court, red-
shirt sophomore Anthony Wright
walked on. Wright, who came in
averaging 2.3 points per game,
quickly drained three 3-pointers
and Michigan held a three-point
lead with just under four minutes
left in the half.
"I knew somebody had to step
up into that scoring role," Wright
said. "So I got more aggressive."
Wright tied his season high of 12
points in just 14 first-half minutes.
Beilein admitted it wasn't his
ideal lineup but that Wright, along
with junior forward Zach Gibson,
filled in well and got the job done.
The Wolverines finished with 19
bench points. The Sooners did not
substitute in the second half and
had just one point from a bench
player.
"We're not a one-man team,"
freshman guard Zach Novak
said. "We got guys that stepped
up tonight. Anthony stepped up
huge."
HE'LL BE BACK: After the loss
to Oklahoma, Harris all but said
he would not make the jump to
the NBA this summer and instead
return to play for Michigan.
"I love the college game," Har-
ris said. "I still have a lot of work to
do before I make the jump."


U.M.A.Y
[The University of Michigan Asks You]
U ASKS
YOU ANSWER
Watch for your email invitation from the Provost
NERYS OF MIMGAN

0

0


I

A

I


