~Ije £dii4an0aitF

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, November 4, 2009

michigandaily.com

* ELECTION DAY 2009

County
rejects
millage
Proposal would have increased
taxes to help fund area schools
By DYLAN CINTI
Daily Staff Reporter
Nearly 60 percent of Washtenaw County vot-
ers rejected a property tax increase yesterday that
would have provided additional funding to the area's
public schools.
The Regional Enhancement Millage was proposed
by the Washtenaw County Intermediate School Dis-
trict, which is comprised of10 school districts includ-
ing Ann Arbor Public Schools, to deal with mounting
budget concerns.
The millage would have increased county prop-
erty taxes by $2 for every $1,000 of taxable value
over a five-year period, with revenue distributed to
districts on a per-pupil basis.
The millage faced significant opposition from sev-
eral local groups, including Citizens for a Responsible
Washtenaw and Ann Arbor Citizens for Responsible
School Spending. The groups cited reckless school
spending and Michigan's dire economy as reasons
for opposing the millage.
CRW, a group mainly comprised of local busi-
nesspeople, devised an alternative "five-point plan
for district transformational change," according to
Albert Berriz, CRW's treasurer.
Berriz said he's pleased that Washtenaw County
voted against the millage and hopes that AAPS con-
siders his group's plan.
"Our five-point plan is what we believe in," Berriz
said. "The voters have spoken, and now we have to
put that plan into action."
AAPS Superintendent Todd Roberts told the Daily
on Monday that the district would likely face sub-
stantial cuts if the millage didn't pass.
See MILLAGE, Page 7

LSA senior Hatim Elhady, whose bid for City Council failed, marks a precinct result onsa map during his election watch party yesterday.
Council incumbents win day

In,
LS1
bid f
In th.
terday's
Sabra B
beat out
year tei
Council

yesterday's vote, Higgins defeated LSA senior Hatim
Elhady in the 4th Ward contest with
A senior Elhady's 62.11 percent of the vote, according
to unofficial elections results at 12:55
or the council fails a.m, after 122 of the 124 precinctswere
counted. Briere, who was running for
By EMILY ORLEY a seat in the 1st Ward, defeated inde-
Daily StaffReporter pendent Mitchell Ozog with 77.84 per-
cent of the vote.
e only contested seats for yes- In the uncontested races, incum-
city election, incumbents bents Mike Anglin and Stephen
riere and Marcia Higgins both Rapundalo both won re-election in the
their opponents to claim two- 5th Ward and 3rd Ward, respectively.
rms on the Ann Arbor City Former Councilmember Stephen
1. Kunselman also won an uncontested

race on Tuesday to represent the city's
3rd Ward.
In a phone interview last night,
Higgins told The Michigan Daily
she was pleased with the elections'
results. She said that she would hope
in the coming years that University
students would have a stronger voice
in the affairs of the city.
"I (would like) to see students get
more involved and I think we need to
find ways to do that," she said. "There
are task forces and commissions that
I think their input would be very
invaluable."

Higgins' campaign leading up to
the Nov. 4 election emphasized her
experiences and efficiency on the
council. She told the Daily earlier this
week that if elected she would push
for re-zoning to provide more growth
and development downtown, as well
as fixing city budget issues.
"I have spent decades in Ann Arbor
- volunteering for local nonprofits,
raising my family and working on
city government issues," she told the
Daily. "City Council is not a game. It's
a serious business that requires a real
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7


MSA commission pushes plan for
course info to be available earlier
Policy pushes for

With 'U' Innocence
Clinic's help, Detroit
man freed from prison

some materials to be
ready before
class registration
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
A new academic policy in the
works may make choosing classes
every semester less of a gamble.
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly Academic Affairs Commission
has initiated a push for a policy
that would require professors to
provide more information online
about their courses before stu-
dents register for classes.
John Lin, chair of the Academ-
ic Affairs Commission, said that
this change would allow students
to make more informed choices
about courses.
"We realized that when it
comes to registering for courses
students don't really have that
much information to make their
decisions off of," Lin said.
He said the commission would
like to see professors post their
syllabuses on CTools before stu-
dents register for classes.
"By putting that online ahead
of time, you're providing students
with the information that you are
going to cover, the books you are

Dwayne Provience
served eight years
for a murder he
didn't commit
By ALEX KIRSHENBAUM
For theDaily
It has been a long road to free-
dom for Dwayne Provience.
In 2001 he was convicted of a
murder he didn't commit and after
eight years in prison, he is today
back with his family.
Last Friday, the University Law
School's Innocence Clinic, which
has been working on Provience's
case for the past nine months,
presented evidence to a criminal
court in Detroit for a motion to
relieve judgment. A prosecutor
could then decide, based on the
evidence, whether to take the case
back to court or accept the motion.
The prosecutor accepted the
motion yesterday and Provience
walked away, no longer convicted
of the murder.
Provience's journey, however,
has not been an easy one.
In 2001, Provience was charged
with the murder of Rene Hunter.
Hunter was gunned down on the

corner of Pembroke Street and
Greenfield Road onthe westside of
Detroit and Larry Wiley, a Detroit
resident, claimed Provience and
his brother were responsible for
the murder.
Earlier this year, however,
Wiley recanted his testimony,
saying he has recently been diag-
nosed with cancer and wanted to
clear his conscience of the lies he
said he told about Provience.
When he heard the news, Pro-
vience didn't wait longto act, con-
tacting the Innocence Clinic to
help clear his name.
In March, the clinic agreed to
help based on the recanted testi-
mony of the prosecution's key wit-
ness. It soon found that the case
was a bit more complicated.
When the clinic first began
looking into the case, Innocence
Clinic workers found that the
prosecution had obtained the
police officer's progress notes for
the investigation. These progress
notes revealed that the officers
had linked Hunter's murder to
the murder of Courtney Irving, a
Detroit resident who was killed
one month after Hunter.
The prosecution failed to dis-
close this information during the
trial.
See INNOCENCE CLINIC, Page 7

MSA Executive Board members converse during the assembly's weekly meeting yesterday.

going to require, your exam dates
- all the stuff that's really impor-
tant for Michigan students," Lin
said.
The commission is working
in partnership with the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs' Academic Affairs
Advisory Committee.
Prof. Gregory Wakefield, chair
of the SACUA committee, said
in a phone interview that while
requiring professors to post their
exact syllabus may not be real-

istic, the committee supports a
general increase in the amount of
information provided to students
at registration.
"All of us want to make sure
that what we are teaching in our
classes is understood as being
here and available to our stu-
dents," Wakefield said.
At last night's meeting, MSA
reviewed a resolution that would
allow the Academic Affairs Com-
mission to continue to lobby
SACUA for this policy. Once the

Academic Affairs Advisory Com-
mittee forms a policy change, it
will submit the change along with
the committee's recommenda-
tion to SACUA for consideration,
Wakefield said.
The MSA resolution is set to be
voted on next week.
LSA sophomore Alex Levine,
who co-authored the MSA resolu-
tion, said in an interview that this
additional information could help
students find courses that they
See MSA, Page 7



WEATHER HI: 45
TOMORROW M LO: 27

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

Arrangements made for Robert Koonce's funeral
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS..................................2 ARTS ...............................,5
Vol. CXX, No.40 SUDOKU.............................. 3 CLASSIFIEDS ........................6
©2009The MichiganDaily OPINION...........................4 SPORTS.......... .............8
michigondoily.com "



0

2 - Wednesday, November 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

THURSDAY:
Campus Characters

FRIDAY:
Explained

clrhe Ik1~ian DAfij
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaitycom tmdbusiness@gmail.com

0

On with the show

MUSKET's productions are often
as eccentric as the group's name:
the Michigan Union Shows, Ko-Eds,
Too.
The troupe's origins date back to
1908, when it was called the Michi-
gan Union Opera Company. The
name was changed to MUSKET in
1956, when women were added to
the group and the focus was shifted
to performing musicals.
Today, the group puts on two
shows per year and stands out on
campus as the only musical theater
troupe that is entirely student-run.
The student staff of MUSKET
consists of four producers, who
stay on throughout the year, and a
changing set of marketers, directors,
actors, orchestra members and stage
crew, who vary by show.
This group differs from most
campus productions because it often
offers parts to students from differ-
ent schools and departments in the

University, according to Music, The-
atre & Dance senior Trevor Spon-
seller, one of MUSKET's producers.
"What's really cool is that we get
a lot of theater and musical theater
people, and then we get alot of really
talented people from LSA and engi-
neering and nursing and education,
completely different majors," he
said.
In choosing such a diverse cast,
members of MUSKET say they are
trying to promote the ultimate goal
of the troupe: to produce a student
theater that offers theatrical oppor-
tunities to all.
Because the group is student-run,
Sponseller said it also has more free-
dom in the musicals that it chooses to
perform.
"We like to do edgier shows, stuff
that tests the boundaries a little bit
more than the department shows,"
Sponseller said.
In the past, MUSKET has per-

formed shows like "Assassins," "Uri-
netown,""The Rocky Horror Picture
Show" and "The Full Monty."
Maintaining that edgy theme is
MUSKET's selection for this fall: the
rock musical "Hair."
The musical follows the lives and
tribulations of a hippie tribe living
in Central Park in New York City in
the 1960s. The characters deal with
complex issues like sexuality, iden-
tity and the Vietnam War draft.
LSAsophomoreLanceFletke,who
plays one of the leads, said he knew
from the beginning that this year's
performance would be a "powerful
show."
"These are powerful people, each
and every one with a story, each and
every one with a history, and bag-
gage, and experiences, and joys and
pains," he said. "And we're all com-
ing together to pour ourselves into
this show."
- CAITLIN HUSTON

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroomc
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
tiassified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Office hours: Sun.-Thurs.Ita.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-24s9
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com

opinion@oiehtgondaiy.con,
sports@michigandaity.coe,
disptay@michigandaily.om
classiied@michigandaity~coe,
onlineads@michiandaiy.ome

Members of the MUSKET musical theatre company rehearse
for their upcoming production of "Hair" in the Student Theatre
Arts Complex.

CRIME NOTES
Cash stolen from You break it,

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Breaking the Performance

purse
WHERE: Biomedical Science
Research Building
WHEN: Monday at about
noon.
WHAT: A female staff mem-
ber reported that $25 was
stolen from her purse that was
left unattended in a classroom,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Out of sight, out
of mind
WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Building
WHEN: Monday at about 7 p.m.
WHAT: A student left his bag
unattended for about an hour
and returned to find miscel-
laneous items missing, Univer-
sity Police reported..

you buy it
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday around 11:45
p.m.
WHAT: A staff member
reported that a patient punched
a hole in the wall and tore down
the shower curtains in a room in
the Maternal and Child Health
Area. University Police reported
that the patient will be charged
$500 for damages.
Lock cut, bike
stolen
WHERE: 750 North Univer-
sity Avenue
WHEN: Monday at about 8 p.m.
WHAT: A student left her bike
locked up for four days and
whenshe returned for it found
the lock cut and the bike gone,
University Police reported.
The bike was valued at $100,

aience
WHAT: A brief presentation
about the Congo Conflict,
followed by a screening of
the documentary "Rape of a
Nation" and a discussion.
WHO: African Student Asso-
ciation
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Room 2105B
Sleep disorder
discussion
WHAT: Louise O'Brien leads
a discussion on Sleep-Disor-
dered Breathing's connection
with obesity and poor preg-
nancy outcomes.
WHO: Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today from 3 to
4:30 p.m.
WHERE: Lane Hall

WHAT: Female songwriters
and singers Eric McKeown
and Jill Sobule perform.
WHO: Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
Chinese modern
art lecture
WHAT: A lecture from
Melissa Chiu about the last
three decades of Chinese
art.
WHO: Museums Theme Year
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30 to
8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Helmut Stern
Auditorium, Museum of Art
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

A high school algebra
teacher in California said
he would any student who
would eat a dead fly he killed
during class an 'A' on his or her
next test, cbs13.com reported.
However, the student who com-
plied instead received an 'F'. The
school's principal is currently
investigating the situation.
Michigan's latest budget
bill decreased K-12 edu-
cation funding by nearly
$292 per pupil for the next fis-
cal year.
a>FORMORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3 A Sterling Heights,
Mich. family found a live
frog in a bag of lettuce
from Kroger, myfoxdc.com
reported. Kroger asked the
family to return the package
with the live frog inside, but
the family decided to send a
photograph and set the frog
free instead.

EDITORIAL STAFF
tourtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacoh SmilOitZsnaangNeswsEditor smilovitz@mchga::daily.com
noSITAN ES EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soavermichigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmmaJeszke,MatthewShutleras
Andy Reid Managingsports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gnn Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor wanick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,WhitneyPow
^ASS NTARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer, CarolynKlarecki, AndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaity.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, ChanelVon Habsbur-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:Max Collins,Chris Dzombak,Sam Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
MareenGStyh Manaong Gesgnditors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell CopyChief mitchet@mtchigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wonstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKoETNG MAuNAGER: Michael Shrotenboer
Ryan B sinski CtassifiedManagr
CLASSIFIED ASSITANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreo Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany MoralestCirculationrManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
Thre cinDail ISN 074-967is pulihdoinay tgFrday da',tefalland ite
rerm ystdentsathnenversofMcigan Oneoysaila beaeto alreder.
Additionalcopiesmay be pickedup at the Dalyso eefor$2.Subscriptonsf t i tam, sating
SetemreiasU.e ai re$10,itrtmnuaryexthoughApriltsltt5,erong (Steptember
trougtAprsi t eli$1.Uneiyantesaresujetto a reuedsscaionrte.earpus
subscriptionsfor faltermare$3.Subscriptionsmust be prepaidTheMian yailsamembeo
The AssociatedPressand The Associated Collegiate Press.

0

WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS? gypt-srae rtion
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com complicate peace efforts
Hillary Clinton will concernothat Egyptian and Arab sup- for attempts by African countries
port for the Israeli-Palestinian peace to grab a bigger share of the Nile's
meetwith Egyptian efforts maybewaning. waters.
Clinton, who extended he i- "If generally they have been col
Al F T Nil C) N F cF-S H M EN & S O P H O M O R E S2[ president today east trip by a day to come to Cairo, nowtheirtiesseemtobefrosty,"said

0
0

ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?
.11 ads for
2lhe Dui.

CAIRO (AP) - A sharp dete-
rioration in Egypt's relations with
Israel is further complicating
Washington's faltering efforts to
move the Middle East peace pro-
cess forward.
The U.S. has long relied on
Egypt's key role as a mediator in
the region, most crucially in try-
ing to reconcile rival Palestinian
factions. But those efforts are now
stalled as U.S. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton rushes to Cairo to
meet Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak today - a clear sign of

arrives at one of the lowest ebbsin
three decades of Egyptian-Israeli
peace. Over the past month, Egypt
has been scaling back its already
limited contacts with Israel in an
apparent protest over Israel's refusal
to halt Jewish settlement in the West
Bank and east Jerusalem.
Egypt has tried to keep Israe-
lis away from several international
forums and censured an academic
for meeting Israel's ambassador to
Cairo. Egyptians have also bitterly
blamed Israel for their culture min-
ister's loss of the top post at the U.N.
culture agency, UNESCO, and even


We need new account executives for
the Winter/Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
Close deals
Convince skeptics
Become a leader
and build a Killer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(734) 764-0554
or e-mail, attn: Molly Twigg
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Application deadline
for Winter 2010 positions:
November 20, 2009
Q~-

Samir Ghattas, head of the Cairo-
based Magdus Center for Strategic
Studies.
IsraelacknowledgedtheEgyptian
frictions but tried to play them down,
contending the hard line against the
Jewish state comes more from the
society than from Egypt's govern-
ment.
Egypt was the first Arab country
to make peace with Israel in 1979
and though ties have never been
warm, it has played a critical role as
Mideast peace mediator. The Egyp-
tians helped end the Gaza vvar early
this year. More recently, Egyptian
and German mediators brokered
a deal between Israel and Hamas
to exchange 19 Palestinian women
prisoners for the first video images
of Israeli soldier Gilad Schalitsince
he was captured in a cross-border
raid from Gaza in 2006.
The deterioration of relations
poses another obstacle to the
Obama administration's plan for
Egypt and other Arab countries to
forge a regional peace deal.
Other Arab countries - most of
which refuse all contact with Isra-
el - have rejected the U.S. call for
small steps toward normalization
with Israel that could create a bet-
ter environment to restart Israeli,
Palestinian peace talks.
Palestinians are demanding a
total settlement freeze before they
will return to talks,t suspended.
since latelast year.
Clinton angered Arabs this week
when she lauded Israel for what
she called an unprecedented offer
to curb Jewish settlement on lands
Palestinianshopetoincorporateina
future state. It was unusually strong
praise forIsraeli peace effortswith-
out explicitly mentioning any posi-
tive acts by the Palestinians.
Arab governments interpreted
her comments in Jerusalem as a
tilting of U.S. policy toward Israel.
On Monday in Morocco, Clinton
issued what she called a clarifica-
tion, saying her wordsin Jerusalem
were meant as "positive reinforce-
ment" for the Israelis. She said
Israel's effort still fell far short of
U.S. expectations, and strongly
praised the Palestinians.


Ak


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 4, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Wednesday, November 4, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Auto sales show
industry beginning
to stabilize
GM reported its first monthly gain
in U.S.sales inalmosttwoyearswhile
Toyota and Ford also improved, a
sign the auto industry it starting to
crawlbackfrom ayearlongslump.
Demand for new cars and cross-
overs in October fueled better results
for General Motors Co. and Detroit
rival Ford Motor Co. GM's sales rose
4.7percent fromOctober2008,while
Ford notched a 3-percent gain. Japa-
nese rival Toyota Motor Corp. said
its sales edged up less than a percent.
Less rosy news came from Chrysler
Group LLC, whose sales fell 30 per-
cent, though they improved from
September.
The biggest winners were Hyun-
dai, based in South Korea, whose
sales jumped 49 percent to 31,005
vehicles, boosted by its fuel-efficient
Elantra sedan; and Japanese auto-
maker Subaru, which saw a 41-per-
cent surge, helped by strong sales in
its Outback and Forester models.
Automakers had said October
would be a test of the strength of the
auto market after the volatile effects
of the government's Cash for Clunk-
ers program. The industry staggered
through a tough September, hurt by
the collapse of demand following the
clunker rebates that fueled a sales
surge over the summer.
MEXICO CITY
Mexican troops
kill federal agent
in gunbattle
Police and soldiers killed a fed-
eral agent driving one of three cars
0 thatignored orders tostop innorth-
ern Mexico, triggering a chase and
gunbattle yesterday, authorities
said.
The police and troops were on a
joint patrol in the city of Chihua-
hua when they tried to stop three
suspicious vehicles, the federal
Attorney General's Office and the
Defense Department said in a joint
statement.
The three drivers ignored the
order, leading to a chase and then
a shootout when the occupants of
two cars opened fire after being
caught by the security forces, the
statement said.
The driver of the one of the cars
- later identified as federal agent
Miguel Angel Meneses - was
killed, according to the statement.
Another person inside one of the
cars was wounded.
KALAMAZOO
Western Michigan
trustees back plan
for medical school
Western Michigan University
said yesterday it will proceed with
plans for a new medical school, a
move under consideration for two
years, with help from an anonymous
$1.8 million gift.
Michigan's three medical schools
could soon grow to six with accredi-

Cation requests earlier this year
from Western, Central and Oakland
universities.
Western Michigan said an
unidentified donor has pledged $1.8
million to allow it to hire an interim
dean and pay for detailed planning.
The medical school will be private-
ly funded and won't receive state
funds, it said.
"There is still much work to do
to make a school of medicine a real-
ity, but we've already made great
progress as a community," univer-
sity President John M. Dunn said
in a statement. "Our next steps will
include extending the planning pro-
cess in a way that will take advan-
tage of even more of the expertise
available locally."
DETROIT
GM board decides to
keep European Opel
General Motors Co. says its board
of directors has decided to keep its
European Opel unit rather than sell
a 55 percent stake to Canadian auto
parts maker Magna International.
The decision came yesterday at a
daylong meeting in Detroit, ending a
year of uncertainty for the troubled
Opel brand and its English sister,
Vauxhall.
CEO Fritz Henderson says in a
statement that GM will present its
restructuring plan for Opel to the
German government soon. The
move came even though Opel's
unions yesterday reached agree-
ment with Magna for $390 million a
year in cost cuts.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

GOP wins
Virginia race
for governor

HENNY RAY ABRAMS/AP
Republican Chris Christie addresses his supporters yesterday after beating incumbent Gov. Jon Corzine to become the 55th
governor of New Jersey,
Corzine unseated
Christie in New Jersey

McDonnell's win
comes a year after
Obama won the state
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) - Repub-
lican Bob McDonnell wooed Virgin-
ia's independent voters yesterday to
win a landslide election for governor
just a year after the state bucked tra-
dition and voted for Barack Obama.
McDonnell, a conservative for-
mer state attorney general, had
about 60 percent of the vote with
most precincts reporting. He takes
back the governor's office after
eightyears of Democrat control.
The election largely turned on
independent voters, who preferred
McDonnell by nearly a 2-1 ratio
over Democrat R. Creigh Deeds,
exit polls showed. It was a shift
from 2008, when independents in
the state split about evenly between
the parties.
"I just got tackled by my five kids
and my wife, and there are a lot
of tears on my cheeks right now,"
McDonnell told The Associated
Press.
The race, along with one in New
Jersey, has been closely watched as
a potential referendum on Obama
and his policies. Obama was the
first Democrat in 44 years to carry
Virginia ina presidential race.
Virginia voters were split on

Obama's job performance, exit
polls showed. While many said the
president was not a factor in their
votes for governor, about a quarter
said their vote for McDonnell was
also a rejection of Obama.
"I hope this will kind of send a
message to Congress that you bet-
ter do what we want or we won't re-
elect you," said Linda Doland, 60, a
nanny in suburban Richmond who
voted for McDonnell.
"You're supposed to represent
us," she said. "I don't think the
present administration is really lis-
tening to the people."
Voters expressed angst about
major Obama initiatives such as
health care, energy and stimulus
spending. But McDonnell dominat-
ed the campaign's central issues:
jobs and the economy.
In Associated Press surveys at
polling places statewide, about
eight in 10 voters said they were
worried about the direction of the
nation's economy, and the majority
of those favored McDonnell.
McDonnell, 55, never trailed
in polls, even though his lead nar-
rowed in September after news
reports of a graduate thesis he
wrote in 1989 that disparaged
working women, gays and unmar-
ried "cohabitators." He dismissed
it as a forgotten academic exercise
and said raising three daughters
had changed his views.

Christie is first
Republican to win in
'NJ statewide
election in 12 years
TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Repub-
lican Chris Christie, a former
corruption-busting prosecutor,
unseated the deep-pocketed but
unpopular Gov. Jon Corzine on
yesterday in a bruising contest
that focused on New Jersey's ail-
ing economy, its highest-in-the-
nation property taxes and even
Christie's weight.
Christie, 47, became the first
member of his party in a dozen
years to win a statewide contest in
heavily Democratic New Jersey.
"Tomorrow, starting tomorrow,
we are going to pick Trenton up
and turn it upside down," Chris-
tie said in his acceptance speech
in Parsippany in front of cheering
supporters.
President Barack Obama
invested heavily in the race, cam-
paigning with Corzine five times
on three separate visits. A Repub-

lican captured the only other
governor's race in the country,
in Virginia, a troubling sign for
Obama heading into next year's
midterm elections.
With 99 percent of precincts
reporting, Christie had 1,135,181
votes, or 49 percent, compared with
1,033,522, or 45 percent, for Cor-
zine. Independent candidate Chris
Daggett, who at one point had been
feared as a potential spoiler, had
132,245 votes, about 6 percent.
Daggett may have cut into Cor-
zine's base. Two-thirds of Daggett
voters approved of Obama, sug-
gesting they were more likely to
lean Democratic, according to an
Associated Press exit poll.
Corzine also failed to swayunaf-
filiated women voters, a majority
of whom voted for Christie despite
being courted by Corzine.
Corzine said he called Christie
just before 11 p.m. last night "and
congratulated him on becoming
New Jersey's next governor." He
pledged to work with Christie to
ensure a smooth transition.
"We might be retiring from
politics," Corzine said in his
concession speech, "but we are

not retiring from the fight or for
speaking up for the things we
believe in."
Christie accepted public financ-
ing in the race againstthe wealthy
incumbent and was outspent $23
million to $11 million. He did get
financial help from the Republi-
can Governors Association and
other national Republican groups,
which bought television time in
the pricey New York and Philadel-
phia media markets.
Christie ran on a platform of
smaller government and relent-
lessly criticized Corzine for what
he called poor economic steward-
ship. State unemployment was at
9.8 percent in October and prop-
erty taxes averaged $7,045 per
household, the nation's highest.
But he was criticized during the
campaign for remaining vague
about how he would solve New
Jersey's chronic fiscal problems.
"For me and for most of you,
we've already had a great New
Jersey life," he said in his accep-
tance speech. "What we want to
do is make sure that everyone in
New Jersey gets the opportunity
for a great New Jersey life."

buy. one beverage
ge one FREED
(of equal or lesser value)
1741 Plymouth Rd " Ann Arbor
BIGGBY
for franchise info www.biggby.com COFF E
Good ot this location only. Not good with any other offer.
No copies of this coupenwille accepted. Offerexpires .)/10/09
--U, O

New York Mayor-elect Michael Bloomberg walks on the stage at the Sheraton New York Hotel yesterday to address sup-
porters after he beat his opponent.
Bloomberg wins third
term as NYC mtay or

LSA
THE UNIVERSITY of MICHIGAN COLLEGE of LITERATURE, SCIENCE 6
THE ARTs presents a public lecture and reception

Bloomberg to New
Yorkers: you 'ain't
seen nothing yet'
NEW YORK (AP) - Billionaire
Michael Bloomberg won a third
term as New York mayor yester-
day ina closer-than-expected race
against a Democratic challenger
who stoked voter resentment over
the way Bloomberg changed the
city's term-limits law so he could
stay in office.
Bloomberg, the richest man
in New York and founder of the
financial information company
Bloomberg LP, defeated William
Thompson Jr. 51 percent to 46
percent - a difference of less than
51,000 votes.
The mayor called it a "hard-
fought victory in a very difficult
year," and promised that New
Yorkers "ain't seen nothing yet"
from him.
"I'm committed to working
twice as hard in the next four
years as I did in the past eight,"
Bloombergsaid.
In the days leading up to the
election, polls showed Bloomberg
with as much as an 18-point lead,
an edge so big that critics accused
the mayor of overkill in his strat-
egy of bombarding the city with
campaign ads.

His actual margin of victory was
far smaller thanthe nearly 20-point
blowout he pulled off in 2005.
When all the bills are paid,
Bloomberg will probably have
spentmorethan$1oomilliononhis
campaign, the mostexpensive self-
financed campaign in U.S. history.
Thompson, the city's comptroller,
relied on donations and matching
funds for his mayoral bid, and was
on track to spend about a tenth of
Bloomberg's staggering total.
"This campaign was about
defying conventional wisdom....
this campaign was about stand-
ing strong, standing tall and never
backing down in the face of a for-
midable challenge," Thompson
said after conceding defeat.
Thompson ran up huge margins
in black and Hispanic neighbor-
hoods, winning by a 3-to-1 margin
in some districts.
He beat Bloomberg handily in
predominantly black neighbor-
hoods like Bedford-Stuyvesant in
Brooklyn and Jamaica in Queens.
He won Harlem and East Harlem
easily, along with other heavily
Hispanic districts in upper Man-
hattan and the Bronx.
By contrast, Bloomberg won
easily on Staten Island, which has
a much larger white population.
He also fared better in Manhat-
tan, particularly on the Upper East
Side, where he lives.

The tiny margin could weaken
his power and make his third term
more difficult at City Hall, where
Democrats poised to sweep into
citywide offices indicated they
would notshy away from disagree-
ing with the mayor.
"You'll see a lot of strong voic-
es as checks and balances," said
Democrat Bill de Blasio, who won
the job of City Hall ombudsman
Tuesday. "It will be a very differ-
ent experience than what he expe-
rienced the last eight years."
Bloomberg is just the fourth
mayor to win a third term, after
Fiorello La Guardia, Robert Wag-
ner and Ed Koch.
Bloomberg was a Republican but
left the party in 2007 to explore a
presidential bid, a dreamhe eventu-
ally abandoned. For his third may-
oral run, he ran again on the GOP
and Independence Party lines.
While Bloomberg was often
described as having every advan-
tage in the race, including his esti-
mated $17.5 billion fortune and
consistently high approval ratings,
his campaign did have to overcome
some obstacles.
The mayor, who has close ties
to Wall Street and development,
was running for re-election at a
time when finance and real estate
were falling apart and those rela-
tionships were not necessarily
seen as positives.

ACTION PRINCIPLES AND THE DYNAMICS OF
Spinning, Rolling, and Skating
ANTHONY BLOCH, Alexander Ziwet Collegiate Professor of Mathematics
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009
4:10PM, RACKHAM AMPHITHEATER


0

4 - Wednesday, November 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ROSE JAFFE

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

ROBERT SOAVE
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorialboard. All other signed articles
and illustrations representsolely the views ofttheir authors.1
Backing up education
Students should find ways to give back to their communities
T hanks to the abject failure of the state government to do
its job of providing Michigan's schools with the money
they need, the primary loser in this year's budget debate
is K-12 education. Despite the obvious importance of education to
the state's future, legislators don't seem to understand that with-
out well-funded schools, Michigan's prospects only grow more
hopeless. But until legislators are held accountable and reverse
their failure, private citizens must step up and choose to fund local
schools. And college students, too, should do their part to make
sure the children of Michigan do not suffer a decline in the quality
of their education.

rUrPiZ2Ookw 5TILL S
Bust out of tef student bubble

After weeks of Democrats and Repub-
licans in the state legislature fighting
over spending, Michigan's budget debate
finally ended last week. Gov. Jennifer
Granholm signed the final 2010 budget on
Friday - a budget that slashed K-12 edu-
cation funding, the Promise Scholarship
and higher education funding The big
loser, though, was K-12 education, which
will now see at least $292 less per student.
There's no escaping the fact that state
government failed one of its most criti-
cal tasks by reducing depleting education
funding. Providing for education is one of
government's most important functions,
and the legislature can't be said to have
done its job until it rights this wrong.
But in the meantime, Michigan's
schools can't just wait for the government
to realize how badly it's erred or until the
next election when these impotent legis-
lators can be punished. Private citizens
have some additional responsibility to fill
in, for now.
One such citizen who is doing some-
thing is Ypsilanti Township resident Lon-
nie Scott, a Democrat who is running to
represent the 54th District in the state
House of Representatives. According to an
Oct. 29 annarbor.com article, Scott wants
to find 3,000 people who will donate $12
to create scholarships of $1,200 each for
students in the three school districts.
This type of fundraising could provide

a stop-gap measure for school districts
across the state. The generosity of people
who care about the quality of education
in Michigan is needed to maintain educa-
tional quality in the short run.
That includes means college students.
Though students are infamous for having
small funds and busy schedules, there's no
reason why they can't find some time to
help out the schools that first cultivated
their intellectual abilities. While encour-
aging other students to vote for a school
millage that most of them won't ever have
to pay for is one strategy, college stu-
dents should do better than advocating
that someone else take care of the costs.
In addition to raising some money them-
selves, students can volunteer as tutors
and coaches at local schools in the area or
back in their hometowns.
Indeed, some students at the University
are already giving back through programs
like K-grams, in which University stu-
dents are paired with elementary-school
pen pals. This type of program is low-
cost and a small time commitment, but it
makes a big difference to individual kids.
More students should recognize the need
for volunteers in programs like these in
times of need for local schools.
In tough times, many people are lending
a hand to local schools, and more people
- including college students - should do
what they can, too.

L iving in Ann Arbor has been sion, Ann Arbor has found a niche.
an excellent experience. I have Nationally known summer fairs like
lived in a hospitable neighbor- Top of the Park and the Ann Arbor
hood and enjoyed a solid public school Art Fair have risen from partner-
system. I have had ships between city council and the
the opportunity University. These partnerships are
to be entertained crucial to the smooth functioning of
and broaden my the University and town, and foster
horizons by visi- a learning environment while being
tors like the real conducive to tourism. So while the
life Hotel Rwanda University does wonders for the city
hero Paul Ruse- in attracting visitors, the welcoming,
sabagina, comedi- safe and hospitable environment of
an Russell Peters HARSHA Ann Arbor - a paragon of University
and socially con- PANDURANGA towns - shouldn't be overlooked.
scious rapper The decisions of the Ann Arbor
Talib Kweli. After I government can also impact the lives
graduated from Pioneer High School, of students. For example, a long-
I made the transition to a student at debated issue in City Council has
the University. Being a townie and been whether or not to introduce an
a student resident of Ann Arbor are income tax to close budgetary gaps
undoubtedly different roles, but the as well as possibly provide property
relationship between the two is more tax relief. Property taxes are passed
complex than many students think - on to the consumer in the form of
what happens in Ann Arbor affects higher rent on campus, so an income
the University and vice versa. tax on Ann Arbor residents could
of course, it's undeniable that Ann indirectly result in lower prices for
Arbor wouldn'tbe the town it is with- student housing. But obviously, stu-
out the University and its students. dent incomes would be taxed as well,
The wealth of ethnically diverse res- so there are varying perspectives to
taurants and famous visitors, which consider. Either way, students will be
is a result of an affluent population, affected by a decision.
wouldn't exist. The University has Zoning rules and related restric-
carved Ann Arbor a place in history tions also affect expenses and choitc-
as, among other things, the location es for students. These rules set the
of the announcement of the Peace guidelines for how buildings may be
Corps in 1960 and President Lyndon constructed within the city limits.
Johnson's call for a Great Society in Recently, the application and cre-
1964. The employment and status ation of these rules has been evident
provided by the University allows for in the City Place apartment saga: A
a vibrant environment that all Ann proposed mid-level housing com-
Arbor residents can enjoy. plex has been plagued by obstacles
But even when school isn't in ses- due to the potential historical value

of the area and the city's numerous
zoning restrictions. Students regu-
larly experience the effects of City
Council decisions regarding housing
development, both in price and loca-
tion, when they search for housing
options.
Ann Arbor has a lot
to offer students,
and vice versa.
Students could have participated
in the city's affairs during yesterday's
City Council elections. Voting direct-
ly voices the concerns of the student
body as it relates Ann Arbor's laws
and policies. Students, who make up
a large proportion of the city's popu-
lation during the school year, have
the chance through elections to have
their interests fairly represented.
Ann Arbor and the University
share a symbiotic relationship. Stu-
dents are members of both societies,
and being aware of the city's stances
on issues is important. And coming
fromk a former Ann ArpF 9OyWnie,
the town - whether or not due to
the presence of the University - has
much to offer. It's helpful to step out-
side the strictly student bubble. Take 0
a walk down Main St. on a weekend
evening sometime, and you'll see.
-Harsha Panduranga can be
reached at harshap@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Jamie Block,
Ben Caleca, Michete DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya,
Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
MATTHEW BLANTON
No excuse for racism

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length,
clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

On Halloween morning, prior to a day of
work and college football, my wife and I trav-
eled to our neighborhood Denny's for break-
fast. A trip to Denny's is a modest treat, but for
two graduate students on a strict budget, we
look forward to the simple pleasures that we
can enjoy in our free time.
As the hostess walked us to our booth,
another patron's eyes met mine. The absurdly
large Afro wig and the smeared black makeup
on her face belied her blue eyes and the fair'
hands that held her fork. It was 10 a.m., and my
wife and I, not to mention the other patrons
and wait staff, witnessed our first blackface
costume of the day.
What conversation my wife and I had been
engaged in was lost. What enthusiasm we had
for the day was stunted. We sat in silence for
a moment. Out of necessity, many people of
color have learned to function competently on
a day-to-day basis in the face of implicit and
explicit racism. Nonetheless, on this occa-
sion and engrossed in the weekend's leisure, it
caught us by surprise.
Our reaction was visceral. We sat there in
sadness, anger and fatigue, with a burning
sense of our race and its seeming insignifi-
cance. We felt scrutinized and shamed while
this young woman seemed to be enjoying her
morning, oblivious to the shock waves of dis-
comfort and disbelief moving through the res-
taurant.
After sitting in our booth for a few sec-
onds, my wife stood up. "I'll be right back,"
she said. Retracing her steps two booths, my
wife calmly and quietly told this young lady,

sitting with an older woman - presumably
her mother - that her outfit was offensive.
They were surprised but nodded, admitted
(feigned?) ignorance that the costume could
be perceived as offensive and apologized.
For anyone who has suggested to an indi-
vidual that he/she is racist or that what he/she
is doing is racist, you know it rarely goes well.
This response was surprisingly less explosive
than either my wife or I anticipated, but her
outfit and response revealed a whole host of
other dynamics at work. Would it have been
more hurtful if she was trying to be explicitly
offensive? Or is it more remarkable that she
claimed to not know that some people might
see her as an embodiment of historical and
contemporary oppression? What makes it
okay to wear a black person as a costume?
Blackface isn't a post-racial example of
how people blur the lines of racial construc-
tions. It is a racist practice. The same is true
for the head feathers and war paint of the
"Native" costume, the "cholo" uniform and
many other outfits that, as Felix Lopez artic-
ulated in Thursday's issue of The Michigan
Daily, become, unsurprisingly, prevalent on
Oct. 31 of each year (Halloween unmasked,
10/30/2009).
I am confident that this instance of black-
face was not the only one in Ann Arbor this
past weekend. Ignorance does not excuse rac-
ism, and racism is alive and well in our uni-
versity town. If you deny this is true, don't be
offended if I tell you that you are wrong.
Matthew Blantonis a graduate student.

LARRY HARVILLA |
Keep homophobia out of 'U' sports

0

As many in the University community know, Ann
Arbor has a well-deserved reputation as a liberal, tol-
erant and open-minded city. Imagine my great shock,
then, when I traveled to Ann Arbor to watch my beloved
Wolverine athletic teams play only to be faced with the
kind of ignorant, bigoted behavior I would expect from
those associated with far lesser institutions. I'm talking
about the homophobia I have seen and heard exhibited
by students, alumni and fans alike, particularly at some
of the most popular events like football and men's ice
hockey.
As a former student and Yost Ice Arena cowbell player
from roughly a decade ago, I'm well versed in the chant
performed by the student section when an opposing play-
er is penalized. Hell, I can still recite the 1999-2001 ver-
sions of it from memory to this day.
A couple of years ago, to my horror, I learned that the
student section had appended "cocksucker" (a pejorative
term for gay men) to the end of the chant and voiced it
with what seemed to be a particular flourish. Suddenly,
it seemed that in less than 10 years, I had gone from lead-
ing more than 6,000 fans in chants to persona non grata
in Yost.
I never thought I'd live to see the day when I would
have to defend Michigan Marching Band baton twirler
Nathan Magyar from homophobic comments made by
Michigan football fans (as opposed to, for example, MSU
fans at last year's game), but that day came justbefore this
year's Penn State game.
Carl Grapentine's booming baritone introduction of
Magyar during "M Fanfare" was immediately followed
by a shout of "fag boy" from a fan in the row behind
me. Never mind that, even if that were the case, that's
nobody's business but Nathan's - but this fan, who I
believed to be an alumnus, felt it perfectly okay to demean
a member of his University's marching band based on a
stereotype and hate.
I chided this fan, "So what even if he is gay? It doesn't
matter - he's one of ours."

These incidents are part of a disturbing trend of
homophobia increasingly considered perfectly accept-
able, and in fact even encouraged, at University sporting
events. This needs to stop, and it needs to stop now.
I remember well from my days at Yost how creative
we could be back then without crossing the line of using
terms offensive to minority groups. It was a known fact
to many of my fellow Yost fans of the time that I am gay,
and none of them were bothered - even eight years ago,
before many of the recent advances gay people have made
in society. Where has the basic level of tolerance and
respect gone in just eight years?
Don't get me wrong. There are few things in life I love
more than the Wolverines. I fork over large amounts of
hard-earned cash not only to see them play, but also to
fund the Athletic Department, which gives scholarships
to student-athletes so they can make a positive impact on
our world long after they have hung up the block M or
winged helmet. It pains me that my love for the Univer-
sity is met with such hateful words by fans and that the
hateful words are met with indifference by the Athletic
Department.
The news came out last week that Athletic Director Bill
Martin will be retiring from his post next Sept. 4. With
the jury still out on what legacy he will leave with his
recent coaching hires, combating homophobia at Michi-
gan sporting events would be a great way for Martin to
leave a positive, lasting legacy, on Michigan athletics,
regardless of Rich Roderiguez and John Beilein's even-
tual win-loss records. I call on Bill Martin to make this
a priority in the sunset days of his career at Weidenbach
Hall.
And in closing, I call upon you - students, alumni and 6
otherwise unaffiliated fans - to do your part. Refrain
from homophobic statements and chants at athletic
events, and speak out to combat those you do hear -
that's just what the leaders and best do.
Larry Harvilla is an Engineering alum.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed,
passionate writers to join the Editorial Board.
Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and writing
the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 4, 2009 - 5

Weezer goes
for grown-up
By KEVIN MEYER choly reflection of what Cuomo
For the Daily fears he has become: another
30-something whose good times
With Raditude, Weezer has have drifted downstream.
taken yet another sidestep from Elsewhere, Raditude seem-
its classic ang- ingly drifts away from this ear-
sty geek rock *** nestness. Many of the tracks are
fare. Across chalk-full of feel-good beats and
the record, Weezer ditzy mirth. With simplicity and
frontman Riv- Raditude sarcasm, these tracks will find
ers Cuomo Rtheir ways into listeners' hearts.
takes initia- Geffen Raditude demands that ado-
tive and leaves lescence be celebrated because,
behind the pop-sensitive, cajol- after all, it is fleeting. The dizzy
ing music that marked Weezer's electro-pop on "(If You're Won-
past couple albums, replacing dering If I Want You To) I Want
it with pleasantly hilarious You To" and "I'm Your Daddy"
lamentations and parodies of are shining examples of the gen-
teenage naiveti. This direction uine yet jocular nature of Radi-
may seem both misguided and tude. Perhaps the most obvious
painfully simple, but Weezer moment of duality is ,the Lil
manages to succeed brilliantly Wayne collaboration "Can't
with a handful of whimsical and Stop. Partying." While appear-
memorable tracks. ing superficially to be just
With a hint of farce, Raditude
self-consciously begs listeners
to question both its validity and Facing adult life
sincerity. Ultimately, the album
proves to be both earnest and
sympathetic as it parodies ado-
lescent immaturity through a teenage years.
lens of genuine teenage nostalgia.
It's Raditude's delicate balance
between spoof and authenticity
that cements its greatness. The another head-bopping grind
transition from the collegiate with its shallow money-and-hos
tail-chasing, Patron-drinking lyrics and strange dance beat,
lifestyle to one of middle-aged the theme running behind the
maturity is obviously an evolu- song is one of sobriety and com-
tion Cuomo and crew have taken plaint.
with a grain of salt. Weezer contrives a painstak-
Though Raditude appears ingly complex parody of the way
light-hearted on the surface (its many teenagers live while main-
bizzare cover features a dog in taining a surprising sincerity.
mid-leap through a stereotypi- No longer are these men in the
cal American living room) the positiontobetakencareofwhile
album is much more reflective hedonistically living life to the
and somber than it superficially fullest, with a safety net below
seems. Tracks like "Run Over to catch them if they fall. Sud-
By A Truck," a fast-paced con- denly, the men of Weezer seem
dolence equipped with heavy to realize they have to grow
distortion and one of the album's up. Raditude manages to neatly
most poetically rhythmic cho- compile all the mixed emotions
ruses, express the despera- that accompany the transition
tion of Cuomo's growing pains. into adulthood. And, as Cuomo
Similarly, the song "Put Me describes, "I feel like I've been
Back Together" acts as a melan- run over by atruck."

White Castle: Cruel to more than just your toilet.

Welcome to Amreeka

'Amreeka' illustrates the
tribulations of struggling
immigrants in America
By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
"God bless America, buy hamburgers," says
the sign outside the White
-Castle where Muna (Nisreen
Faour, "For My Father") now *
works. She and her son Fadi
--(newcomer Melkar Muallem) Aireeika
are Palestinian immigrants At the
who have come to live with Michin
family members in America igan
(or as they call it, "Amreeka"). First Generation
Fadi and Muna have given up
stable jobs, friends and family at home in pur-
suit of the American dream.
But America doesn't end up being what
they expected. In the film, America has just
entered the war in Iraq, and Muna and her
family struggle against prejudice. Their new
life ends up being just as trying as life in Pal-
estine.
"Amreeka" seems to give a fair and honest
glimpse into life as an immigrant. The charac-
ters get homesick, have money problems and
struggle with learning and speaking English.

America does not make them happy. At the
same time, the family members don't go back to
Palestine or give up. As Muna points out, their
lives may not be perfect, but they would never
be perfect anywhere in the world.
When Muna and her family encounter preju-
dice, however, the struggle isn't as convincing-
ly directed as their other day-to-day struggles.
Whenever the family in the film is harassed,
it's always by a less-educated male from the
rougher area of town - the same archetype
every time.
This limited portrayal of the harassment the
family endures certainly doesn't paint a pic-
-ture of mass nonacceptance of ethnic minori-
ties in America. References are briefly made to
Muna's brother-in-law's clients leaving him on
the basis of his ethnicity, but the drama never
materializes on screen.
The film tackles sensitive subject matter
and the actors do an admirable job handling it
delicately. Faour, however, carries the film and
gives the movie its emotional weight.- Muna
manages to find humor in her struggles. She
starts selling herbal weight loss supplements
she saw online in order to earn more money,
and unfortunately sells them at White Castle,
learning too late that Americans do not like to
be called "fat."
Given insufficient screen time to develop
their characters, the film's young perform-
ers stfuggle. Alia Shawkat (TV's "Arrested

Development") plays Fadi's cousin and takes
her role to the extreme. Shawkat comes off a
bit too brash and Americanized to the point
where she doesn't mesh well with the family,
even in the scenes in which she's supposed
to do so. It's unclear if the director is trying
emphasize hoss America isolates immigrant
children from their heritage or if it's an actual
flaw in the film.
Writer and director Cherien Dabis (TV's
"The L Word") is also able to coax the script's
nuances to the surface, calling attention to
the darker moments in the funny situations as
well.
She makes the, audience notice American
flags and the "Support our Troops" signs and
then connects the images with troops in the
West Bank and the flags wavingthere. Despite
the serious tone, Dabis manages to keep
humor running throughout the film, making
sure it doesn't get too dismal. It should be pos-
sible for a film to be both funny and edgy, but
"Amreeka," while enjoyable, is not as biting as
it could be.
Dabis's characters all hold onto the idea that
America will solve all their problems and they
become increasingly upset when this doesn't
happen. The film remains unsure of the point it
wants to make about modern-day immigrants
in America. "Amreeka" presents an idealized
picture of America that, at the same time, seeks
to tear this idealization down.

Tegan and Sara's divine collaboration

By KRISTYN ACHO
Daily Arts Writer
By making- their big debut at
the notoriously
female-domi- ***
nated Lilith Fair
Festival, Cana- Tegan and
dian twin sisters Sala
and musicians
Tegan and Sara Sainthood
Quin cornered Vapor
themselves into
the "girl power" indie genre. But
with Sainthood, the Quin twins
ar out

yearning. Not only does the col-
laborative venture mark the band's
most unified album to date, but it's
also its most tragic - the sisters'
raw emotion is exposed by dark,
deep-cutting lyrics that go beyond
the act's typical bittersweet break-
up ballads.
But this isn't to say the band has
let go of the bubbly, throwback
sound that earned it its massive
following. On Sainthood, the duo
gradually reveals a more mature,
nuanced side of itself that should
captivate a wider range of listen-

"Air Bud: Over-the-Hill Rock Band"

are out,
more th
Por
the firs
ten mu
oppose
solo -
genuinr
After a
Sh(
Snt
ous rele
ed the
world,
in Lou
what w
Altho
they c
end up
taking
ness in
comple

to prove they're capable of ers.
ran just tampon rock. This departure from the band's
starters, Sainthood marks conventional pop persona began
t time the sisters have writ- with 2007's The Con, produced by
usic collaboratively - as Death Cab for Cutie's Chris Walla.
d to composing the songs On that effort, the duo awkwardly
and the result is the most experimented with wallowing
e album of their career. vocals and intense drum beats that
long tour for their previ- get muddled along with a largely
melancholic demeanor. Sainthood,
which enlists Walla once again,
The t'wins continues to display an edgier
side, but in a more focused, cohe-
sive manner that never forsakes its
)W off a more girl-pop roots.
ianced side. Perhaps the most appealing
element of the record is its matu-
rity. In "Night Watch," supposedly
written about the sisters' parents'
ease The Con, they seclud- divorce, the duo vents its frustra-
mselves from the outside tions over aggressive electronic
holing up in a random city beats. With divisive lyrics like, "I
isiana to write tracks for need distance from your body," the
ould become Sainthood, twins say goodbye to the teen-pop
ough some of the tracks facade that has been synonymous
omposed together didn't with their band for so long.
on the record, the under- Still, the album is full of tracks
indicates the duo's serious- inside the band's lovesick comfort
writing music dealing with zone - "On Directing" conjures up
x issues like loneliness and images of a lth-grade girl scrib-

THE DAILY NEEDS
FINE ARTS WRITERS.
BE FINE.
WRITE FOR FINE ARTS.
For an application, e-mail
battlebots@umich.edu

Canadas newest fashloebreakthrough sripes

hling love letters in her notebook
during study hall, with cutesy
lyrics like "Go steady with me / I
know it turns you off when I get
talking like a teen." The song has
an undeniably addictive beat and
a message of unrequited love that
waxes nostalgic for the poppier
tracks of 2004's So Jealous.
"Paperback Head" is a bitchin'
slice of 'lOs disco that's a dead-
ringer for early Madonna. Sara
even boasts of "a material girl" in
the track's hook, as if the electric
beats and new wave sound weren't
obvious enough. Fans nostalgic

for the girl pop of Tegan and Sara
circa So Jealous will be instantly
love stricken.
With Sainthood, Tegan and
Sara compose an emotionally
laden album with the self-assur-
ance of indie veterans. Tegan and
Sara powerfully end the album
with "Someday," revealing their
uncertainty regarding a post-
break-up future: "I don't want to
know what you'd do without me /
I don't want to know what I'll be
without you." The track perfectly
concludes the album's emotion-
ally palpable tone.


6 - Wednesday, November 4, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.

! 2 BLOCKS to Diag, 441 Hamilton!
$100,000 Renovation complete,
6 bdrm, study & 3 bathrooms! Sept '10
12 mo. lease. $3400/mo. includes ldry:,
furn., A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS Parents Week-
end Nov 5-8: Thur coffee hour 3-5p,
Fri open house & food tasting 3-8p, Sat
postgame party 3-7p, Sun brunch 11a-
1 p. Stop in, enjoy free stuff, see U-M's
best housing. 2 blocks from Central
Campus. Leasing now for 2010 - beau-
tiful furnished lofts, tons of amenities,
great views. Reserve now, lock in best
rate. 734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
713 Church- 3 bedroom house
Across from East Quad- near B School
2 kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, laun-
dry, on site parking, furnished, no pets,
no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-1244
or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church-1, 2 bdrmapartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrns lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
& 6BDRMHOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
-663-5609
!!!! 4 BDRM. May '10. Mary Ct. Ldry.
Prkg. IM bldg. $2290. 845-399-9904.
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. ,Avail.
on Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free prkg,
Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near B-school.
Free prkg. Indry. Avail. Fall '10.
734.223.7777.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pies/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com

StueHousing Fair
November 2n" from 1-4pm
Alumni Association Center
200 Fletcher Hall
Now Leasing for
2010-2011
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 bedrooms
Ba Po/9z vs/mSe
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
WWW.archrealtyco.com
!6-BDRM, 2 Bath. Colonial on Central
Campus (1143 S.Forest Ave.). 5 min.
walk to college with 2 Refrigerators/
Microwave/ Toaster/ Sink/ Free laun-
dary/ Private deck/ Ample parking.
(MAY 2010)-Call (734) 578-4625.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
t Studio & 1
1 Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quie6&see Hagri (n bk5k ro .mpv
N: B n1',:
734-663-1530
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could e yours - secure your
apartment today!! 734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
*2 BED/2 BATH bi-level: 515 Walnut
- huge apts. great for 4, large living
rooms, new kitchens
*3-Bedrooms: 1506 Geddes - Spa-
cious apts close to CCLittle and CCRB
*3 or 4-Bedroom: 1346 Geddes ALL
utilities included: heat, water, electric-
ity, cale, wireless Intemet
*4-Bedroom Bi-Levelst 543 Church
Best location, new kitchens
*5-Bedroom 539 Packard - Hard-
wood floors, new furniture
*All include heat, water, furnish-
"gs. Call Varsity Management for an
appointment (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
*VARSITY MANAGEMENT
HOUSES*: 1109 S. State and 920
Dewey, both 5 bedrooms, finished attic
and basements, great for up to 7 peo-
ple! (734) 668-1100.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1 BDRM CONDO, 67 K, Packard Rd,-
clean, quiet, new appliances. Email:
Lskrdla@hotmail.com

15 DIFFERENT
LOCATIONS !
CHOOSE FROM EFFICIEN-
CIES, ,2, AND 3 E-
ROOMS s-LEVELSAND
TI-LEVELS TOO!
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761.8000
www.primesh.com
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
502 BENJAMIN- 6 Bed/2bath house
on central campus. Great location. Up-
dates being completed. May or Sept '-
10 lease. $3200/month. 734-478-6061
www.hillwoodpm.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. No coin laundry, front/
ack porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
P E A LT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
716 Arch
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
737 Packard
810 Sybil

7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
325 E. Jefferson
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn
12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
Pgzzas/ozse -
For details call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

PRESENTS THE
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigndally.com/
classfieds to see all of the
grat houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient mapl
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
852 BROOKWOOD - 4 Bedroom
house for rent. Large rooms, kitchen
with dishwasher, parking. Sept '10
Lease - $2300/month. 734-478-6061
www.hillwoodpm.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $649. 2 bedroom at $714. Call
Now! 734-663-8463.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3600
4 Bed. 505 Souer Ct. $2340
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPO/DEINCO
(934)996-9UI
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampsMgt.com, the best
local wehsite for the est selection of
apartments and houses. We secialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 1205 E. Univer-
sity, 6 Irg bdrm. Furn., prkg., 3 full
baths, Irg. common room., ]dry., dw-
shr., $3795. 248-374-1688.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndr, y Law Schol, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllch camcast.net
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/ndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc comcast.net
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrt 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm 734-564-2125

www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW OR January 1 or
2 bdrm. on S. Forest near South U. 734-
996-2836.
Voted "Best
Apartments
in 20091
Reserve your
fully-furnished room,
studio, 1, 2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 2010/2011.
Save your style!
" Heat & Water Included
* Fitness Center & Pool
" 24 Hr. Lobby Attendent
" Secure Entry Building
.Central U-M Campus
Free Food & More!
53S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680

AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully fuan, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen Must see!$4150 (313)215-8115.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FALL 2010. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
8 bdrm houses at 806 Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 drm huses at 217 N.
Thayer & 912 Syil. 1, 2, 3 hdrm aps
an central campus. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@shcgahal.net
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
OPEN HOUSES
Sunday, November 8, 2009
608 Monroe -Behind S. Quad
1-3 p.m.
Eff., Bi-level 1 Bdrm. and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonreManagers@umich.edu
815S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
5-7 pm.
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
3-5 p.m.
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Can't make the open houses? Please
contact corresponding Mg for week-
day appts. 24 hr prior notice please.
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-9437.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car prt,Wshr/Dyr, $950/m.,
all appliances, water included. Call 734-
395-5288. Pfkiani@gmail.com
LARGE 4 BEDROOMS, large living
room, large attic, approved for 6, 852
Brookwood. Prkg., porch, wshr./dryer,
no coin laundry, dishwshr., garage.
Basement. 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
LARGE FURNISHED 3or 3 bdrm,
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fal '10, Heat
& water nel. Bale., A/C, prkg., Idry,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@camcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
availale immediately. 2 locks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.nplaceikejones.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerryown. $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSelA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 drm, modern, clean, quiet
5mn. walk. No Sept. rent.

0

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE IN A Movie asRa Paid Extra.Learn
how @ a FREE Industry workshop
Wed 11/11 6:30pm @ UM Angell
Hall. RSVP wwwJR~alactic.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FULL/PART-TIME SERVERS
needed at the Original Cottage Inn. Ap-
ply within Monday-Friday between 2
and 5. 512E. William.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
MICHIGAN DAILY HIRING Are
you ambitious, assertive and sociable?
Sell Advertising for The Michigan
Daily. It's Not Just a Job. It's the Train-
ing You Need to Succeed! We are hir-
ing display sales department account
executives for the Winter 2010 term.
Freshmen/Sophomores preferred. Con-
tact Molly Twigg at (734) 764-0554 or
email dailydisplay@gmail.com for ap-
plication materials and info. Applica-
tions due Nov. 20, 2009.
PART TIME SALES opportunity to
represent our company on your campus
selling Hookahs, Hookah tobacco and
related accessories on an exclusive ar-
rangement. We provide the products;
you do the selling during your avail-
able lime. contact Rabin Taylor
916-439-5951. rstaylor@starstream.net
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUNDAYS AM HORSE barn help
wanted. Exp. pref. 995-0092.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey..
www.GetPaidToThink.com

THESIS EDITING- LAI.NGUAGEI,
organization, format. 25 yin. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0
0

NATIVE HINDU SPEAKING nanny
needed from 3:00-4:30 pm Mon, Tues,
Wed. 734-754-1145.

I I

Los Angeles Times Daily Cr
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce!
ACROSS 4 Suspicious 36Animalr
1 "_. be an honor" 5 Poker payment activists
4 Absurd sham 6 Sac fly stat 37 Draft ch
9 Music 7 Approvetacitly 39 Five-sta
performance 8 Crowd scene 41 Nifty
rights org. actors 42 Low-co
14 Fizzle out 9 Copycat 43 Coastal
15 Wherework may 10 Furry North irregula
pile up Pacific swimmers mord
18 Bitmisdom 11 Hanna-Barbera
17 Respond In oatpat anagran
Uncle Sam's 12 Escort's offer this puz
poster request 13 Thickness longest
20 Navajo relative 18 "Grss!r ANSWEI
21 Wood decay 19Jekyll's alter egoA
22 Tall and 23 Actuary's S T A T
long-limbed calculation T I V O
23 Hope/Crosbyfilm 25 Cutor scrape, in U T E P
titleword totspeak B O R D
24 Captured 26 Lego relative O
27 -Cat: winter 28 Tic _: mint A R G
vehicle 29 Ericthe Red's M A
28 Movieland aonn 0 D E
30 Eliminate entirely 30 Loneliness R oB E
32., meenie ... syndrome when A L A M
33 utdoor nap site kids leave home F R1 I
36 Women, in 31 Repetitive
old-fashioned learning method T H E
parlante 33 Captain's IN
38 Bo one'stop position JO T T
39 Chasms 34 "Carmen" 0 T T 0
40 "Pay attention!' highlight B O S S
43 Pesky little tyke 35 Like weightlifters xwordedito
46 Retailing pioneer 1 2 3 4 ' 5 6 7
R.H.
47 Eternies 14 15
48 Zellweger ofu
"Chicago" 17 15
50 Anxiety 20 21
52 Texas metropolis
53 Passive- . 22 23
aggressive tactic
56 Land along the 27 2
mcean as 31
57 Two under par,
on a hole m3 3 s s3
58 Up to, in
classified ads a 39
59 Aches 4 14
60 Fatherof Beaua 1 42
and Julf 4o on
61 Go outwith
DOWN
1 Lofty principles 535
2 _ Alley: old 55 57
music-publishing
district ss
3 Old White House
middle name 09nNaTr e rs
c}2009 TribunMedia ServicesInc.

rossword Puzzle
Nichols Lewis
rights 44 Stinker
' concerns 45 Mortar and -
oice 48 Gave a PG.
i leader say
49 Shade tree
st lodging 51 Tolkien tree
people
rities, and 52 Six-time Emmy
minter Tyne
mmed in 53 Teaching inst.
zle's four 54 Chit
answers 55 Bigheadedness
R TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
S P E N D J O L T
O L L I E O P 1 E
P AS T A K E E N
E R T E R R I E R S
1N AC C OU N T S
L O L L P O R T S
S P I E D R E P O
AO M E A T V A N
N G E B E N E F I T S
T R A G R E
O U T E R L I M I T S
I D E L H I B R I E
) G R 0 1 N O M E N
E Y I N G T A R T
)r@aol.com 11/03/t}9
19 9 10 11 12 13

SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
lettnmg us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.

Thl

0


1s
1 9
24a2s an
32
36 37

48 a
24
61
1/04/09gg


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 4, 2049 - 7

CARLOS OSORIO/AP
Detroit Mayor Dave Bing addresses supporters after winning the mayoral election in Detroit yesterday.
B0.
ing wins full aern as Detroit
mayor y substantial margin

Before Congress,
Germany's Merkel
pushes strong deal
on climate change
Address the first by remained seated.
After their White House meet-
German chancellor to ing, Obamasaid, "The United States,
Germany and countries around the
Congress since 1957 world, I think, are all beginning to
recognize why it is so important
WASHINGTON (AP) - German that we work in common in order to
Chancellor Angela Merkel marked stem the potential catastrophe that
the 20th anniversary of the fall of can result if we continue to see glob-
the Berlin Wall by exhorting the al warming continue unabated."
world in a speech to Congress yes- He also said he appreciated "the
terday to "tear down the walls of sacrifices of German soldiers in
today" and reach a deal to combat Afghanistan."
global warming. Merkel used the oval Office ses-
Frequently interrupted by robust sion and her speech to Congress to
applause, Merkel reiterated her express gratitude for American sup-
country's commitment to foster- port throughout the process leading
ing security in Afghanistan and up to German reunification.
also said that a nuclear bomb in the She praised both the U.S. pilots
hands of Iran "is not acceptable." who ran dangerous missions shortly
In the first address by a German after World War II to airlift food and
chancellor to Congress since Konrad supplies to West Berlin and to the mil-
Adenauer in 1957, Merkel put special lions of American troops and diplo-
emphasis on the need for a global mats stationed in Germany between
agreement on climate change - one ' the end of the war and today.
she said she hoped could be forged Without their help, she said, "over-
at an international conference next coming thedivision of Europe would
month in Copenhagen. simply not haveheen possihle."
"We have no time to lose," she On Iran's nuclear program,
declared. Merkel said she recog- Merkel said that allowing Iran to
nized that no deal could be success- have nuclear weapons, especially
ful without the support of China with a leader that denies the Holo-
and India - but that if a deal were caust, is "nonnegotiable."
struck, she said she was sure those "A nuclear bomb in the hands of
two fast-growing economies could an Iranian president who denies
be persuaded to sign on. the Holocaust, threatens Israel and
"Today's generation needs to denies Israel the right to exist is not
prove that it is able to meet the acceptable," she said.
challenges of the 21st century, and The Obama administration has
that, in a sense, we are able to tear called on Germany to agree to stiff-
down walls of today," she said. er economic sanctions against Iran
Merkel cited as clear proof of if Tehran does not permit interna-
global warming icebergs that are tional' restrictions on its nuclear
melting in the Arctic, African peo- activities.
ple forced to flee their homelands Merkel said Germany agreed that
because of drought and the rise in it was important "to meettthis threat
global sea levels. head on... ifnecessary,throughtough
The chancellor met at the White economic sanctions."
House with President Barack on the subject of Afghanistan,
Obama before her speech to the Merkel said Germany will "travel
joint session of Congress; Obama this road together, every step of the
shares her support for a strong way" with the United States. While
international agreement on global Washingtrn ha5 tndicaed it would
warming, although considerable like to see Germany and other part-
skepticism lingersinCbrgress.- ners in Afghanistan increase their
And, whereas at other times in forces, the war is highly unpopular
her speech she received full stand- i[Germany.
ing ovations, when she mentioned She acknowledged that the U.S.
the climate change deal only part and Germany don't see eye to eye
of her audience rose to applaud. on all issues. But she cited a "com-
Many Republican lawmakers monbasis of shared values."

Former Piston
bested opponent 58
0 percent to 42 percent
DETROIT (AP) - The Dave
Bing era as Detroit mayor will con-
tinue for at least four years, giving
the former steel supplier and NBA
great more time to pull the city
a from financial hardship.
Bing, 65, defeated accountant
Tom Barrow in Tuesday's non-
partisan general election, a race in
which the incumbent refused to
even debate the challenger.
"Tom Barrow, from my vantage
point, was not worthy of a debate,"
Bing said last week. "I don't have
time for that. I don't want to play
politics."
Instead, he's been playing hard-
ball and restructuring how Detroit
operates.
Bing, a Democrat, has said the
city is broke and could run out of
money later this year. With a $300
million budget deficit hounding
Detroit, Bing took on city labor
W unions, giving them an ultimatum
CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
* understanding of our government
and our community."
Higgins was first elected to Ann
Arbor City Council in 1999 as a
Republican and re-elected in 2005
and 2007 as a Democrat.
When asked what she thought
of Elhady's campaign, Higgins
refused to comment.
Elhady held a watch party at
Casa Dominick's last night, where
about a dozen people gathered
MILLAGE
From Page 1
According to Roberts, the dis-
trict expects a deficit between $15
W million and $17 million for the
2010-2011 school year.
Without the millage money,
Roberts said, the district will be
forced to make deep cuts, begin-
ning with school employees.
"Staff is where most of our costs
* are," Roberts told the Daily Monday.
Roberts added that conversa-
INNOCENCE CLINIC
From Page 1
According to those police
progress notes, Hunter was
killed by a group of brothers'
from Detroit referred to as the
Mosleys.
"The Mosleys are a crime fam-
ily," second-year law student and
Innocence Clinic member Nick
Cheolas said. "These guys had a
trailer full of weed, and they kept
it in front of their house."
Cheolas said that someone had
* stolen the trailer of weed from the
Moselys' yard and that a man from
Detroit named Maurice "Bangy"
Sutherland told the Mosleys that
Hunter had stolen their "trailer
full of weed."
Cheolas said the Innocence
Clinic's theory suggests the Mos-
leys had Hunter killed because of
this. The theory also suggests that
Sutherland was later killed when

the Mosleys found out that he was
the one who had actually stolen
the trailer.

of widespread layoffs if 10 percent
wage cuts and other concessions
were not met.
Some bargaining units sided
with the mayor, others chose to
fight and supported Barrow in the
election.
But union clout wasn't enough as
Bing cruised to victory.
With100 percent ofDetroit's 629
precincts reporting Tuesday night,
Bing had 58 percent, or 70,060
votes. Barrow, who also failed in
two previous mayoral runs, had 42
percent, or 50,757 votes.
"I believe this is a defining
moment in Detroit's history," Bing
told cheering supporters Tuesday
night. "Now, now, is the time for all
Detroiters to commit to creating a
better future for our city.
"I believe that we can once again
come together, rise to the challenge
and make Detroit the city we all
want it to be."
Detroit voters have favored the
former Detroit Pistons guard and
professional bsketbalI H allof
Famer in each of his first four elec-
tions.
Bing received the most votes ina

special mayoral primary in Febru-
ary and defeated incumbent Mayor
Ken Cockrel Jr. in a May runoff to
complete Kwame Kilpatrick's sec-
ond term in office.
Cockrel moved up from his seat
as City Council president to mayor
in September 2008 after Kilpat-
rick resigned as part of pleas in two
criminal cases. The once-popular
Kilpatrick found himself caught up
early in 2008 in a text-messaging
sex scandal involving his ex-chief
of staff.
That led to perjury, misconduct
and obstruction of justice charges
stemming from Kilpatrick's testi-
mony in a police whistle-blowers'
trial.
Cockrel - and now Bing - were
left to clean up the fiscal mess left
by the Kilpatrick administration.
Tuesday's election brings some
stability to the mayor's office and
promises a new direction for the
City Council, which has been the
subject of a federal corruption
probe that led to the conviction of
Councilwoman Monica Conyers for
taking bribes.
Conyers, wife of Democratic

U.S. Rep. John Conyers, is awaiting
a Dec. 1 sentencing after admitting
to accepting money for her vote on
a controversial sludge-hauling con-
tract.
Five incumbents and 13 challeng-
ers competed for nine City Council
seats. Four incumbents won re-
election and one was ousted.
Former TV anchor Charles Pugh
received the most votes and will
replace Cockrel as council presi-
dent. The top vote-getter automati-
cally wins the council presidency.
Pugh also received the most votes
in an August primary.
"Detroit, we have a lot of work
to do and a lot of tough decisions.
to make. And I understand that
we need ,some committed peo-
ple," Pugh said during his victory
speech. "But you can be confident
about our future, Detroit, and the
newcity.council thatwe have elect,
ed tonight. And I want to assure
you, I am ready to lead today.".
Pugh will become the city's first
openly gay city council member.
With 100 percent of precincts
reporting Tuesday night, Pugh had
88,704 votes.


to support him. The supporters
included family, close friends and
some local politicians who sup-
ported his campaign.
In an interview last night at
the watch party, Elhady told the
Daily that he spent the day of the
election driving people to the
polls and making sure his signs
were visible around town. He
also said that he had supporters
stationed nearby all of the polling
stations.
Despite the loss, Elhady did not
want the supporters gathered at
the bar last night to be disappoint-

ed by the results.
"This isn't a funeral," he said.
"We did our best, we worked hard,
and that's what matters."
Multiple calls placed to Briere's
home phone and cell phone were
not returned late last night.
The Daily called Rapunda-
lo's house phone and his wife
answered, saying her husband was
out of town at that time and could
not be reached.
This year's general city elections
had a 21.58 percent voter turnout,
with only 59,993 ballots casted out
of the 277,348 registered voters in

Washtenaw County.
At the Michigan Union precinct
only .99 percent of the registered
voters cast a ballot - which is only
45 out the 4,537 registered voters
there. The Bursley Residence Hall
precinct had a 1.51 percent voter
turnout. The Mary Markley, East
Quad and South Quad Residence
Hall precincts had a .80 percent,
3.06 percent and 2.64 percentvoter
turnout, respectively.
- Daily News Editor Trevor Calero
and Daily Staff Reporter Dylan
Cinti contributed to this report.


MSA
From Page 1
are particularly interested in.
"We just want students to have
the ability to take courses that
interest them the most and giv-
ing them the extra information
from faculty will help them find
those that they really grasp on to,"
Levine said.
Wakefield said a syllabus out-
line or a syllabus from a previous
semester would be more feasible
for faculty and that it would still
provide that additional informa-
tion students want.
Many professors may not have
their exact syllabuses finalized
by class registration, Wakefield
said. Some may not have made a
week-by-week breakdown yet, or
may tweak their syllabus once the
semester starts, based on students'
interests, he added.
According to Wakefield, the
most plausible way to see that this
policy is enacted would be to keep
the definition of syllabus broad.
"We want to make the defini-

tion of what would be provided,
frankly, as flexible and as reflec-
tive of the kind of education that
goes on at the University as pos-
sible," he said.
Students in attendance at the
meeting said the policy would be a
welcome change.
LSA senior Jessica Moore said
that within a specific major, class
material overlap is a concern. This
policy could prevent that possibil-
ity.
"It gets kind of repetitive if you
sign up for two classes and they
sound like they're going to be
different from the short descrip-
tion and they end up being almost
exactly the same," Moore said.
Knowing exam dates is extra
important for out-of-state stu-
dents who have to book flights,
LSA senior Nehal Patel said.
"My roommate is out of state
and I know she has to wait one or
two weeks into the semester to
figure out when she can go home,"
she said.
- Tim Hall contributed
to this report.

tions would take place with mem-
bers of the community regarding
further cuts.
The University's chapter of
the College Democrats publicly
backed the millage and reached
out to student voters over the past
couple days.
Last weekend the Democrats
distributed pro-millage literature
around student neighborhoods,
according to Sam Marvin, the
group's chair. On election day,
Marvin said, his group sent out
about 400 text messages and made
Irving's death was tied to
the others, the theory suggests,
because he supposedly knew that
the Moselys, and not Provience,
had killed Hunter.
Irving was going to take that
information to the police, but
when the Moselys found out they
had Detroit resident Eric Woods
kill Irving.
"The theory in Courtney
Irving's murder was that he was
murdered because he knew who
killed Rene Hunter," second-year
law student and Innocence Clinic
member Brett DeGroff said. "He
wasn't going to say that Dwayne
Provience did it, he was going to
say that these fellows named the
Mosleys did it."
All of this information was
detailed in the police investigator's
progress notes, but rather than
investigating the Mosley family for
Hunter's murder, the prosecution
hid its findings from the defense
and attempted to convict Provi-
ence of the murder, despite the
contrary evidence.
The second break for the stu-

many phone calls.
Marvin expressed disappoint-
ment at the vote's outcome, but
said his group's outreach efforts
were largely successful.
The College Democrats targeted
10 precincts, concentrating on the
studentvotingpopulation. According
to Marvin, the Democrats increased
voter turnout in those precincts by
an average of 530 percent compared
with 2007's local elections.
"In the specific areas that we
targeted, we saw an increase in
turnout," Marvin said.
dents working on the case was
the discovery of the author of
the progress notes, Detroit Police
Officer William Ashford.
Ashford patrolled theneighbor-
hood at the time of the murders
and knew its residents well.
"He was able to confirm that
there was no connection between
the Provience brothers and the
Mosleys," DeGroff said. "And
it became clear, not only was
Dwayne Provience not the per-
petrator of this crime, but also
that Dwayne Provience wasn't
involved at all."
When told that Provience had
been convicted of Hunter's mur-
der, the surprised Ashford told
the current prosecutors the find-
ings of his investigation, which
pointed to the Mosley family and
away from Provience.
The new evidence discovered
by clinic members led the law stu-
dents involved in the case to file
a motion for relief of judgment, a
motion that would forgive Provi-
ence's 2001 conviction.
Second-year law student and

One hundred and thirteen
people voted in East Quad yester-
day, but Marvin said only 26 voted
there in 2007. Of those 113, Marvin
said that 84 voted for the millage.
The greatest voter increase, Mar-
vin added, took place in South Quad,
where four people voted in 2007.
Thirty-seven people voted there this
year, with 32 voting for the millage.
While Marvin said that this
year's number for South Quad
doesn't seem like much, "consid-
ering the benchmark set in [2007],
it's a lot."
Innocence Clinic member Robyn
Goldberg said finding out that
Provience would be forgiven of
his 2001 conviction "was kind of
unexpected in a good way."
"We were supposed to have a
hearing (yesterday) about the evi-
dence, so the judge could decide
whether Provience deserved
relief of judgment, but on Friday
the prosecution gave in and said
we're not going to fight you, we
agree, he deserves relief of judg-
ment," she said.
Provience isn't out of the woods
yet. Rather than being forgiven of
the murder charge, he is given the
opportunity to face another trial,
though at the discretion of the
prosecutors.
"It would be insane to go after
him again," DeGroff said. "Now
what's probably going to happen
is that Dwayne is going to remain
free on bond until the prosecu-
tion formally decides that they're
not going to prosecute a second
time."
"At that point, he gets his bond
money back and goes free."

WANT TO HEAR
THE STORY
BEHIND THE.
STORI ES?
Listen to Michigan Daily Radio
on WCB N-FM-Ann Arbor
88.3 FM
every Tuesday and Thursday
from 6 to 6:30 p.m.


8 - Wednesday, November 4, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Rodriguez talks about lack of depth

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Everyone wants an answer:
What is wrong with the Michigan
football team?
With four consecutive confer-
ence losses - the most recent an
embarrassing loss to a terrible
Illinois team - the Wolverines
are unraveling during the sea-
son's most critical stretch.
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez said Monday the team's
struggles stem from a lack of
execution on the field and a lack
of talent on the current roster. But
changing schematics and moving
around personnel are short-term
Band-Aids.
He knows success is still far
away and the team's lack of long-
term solutions - improving talent
and depth - is what frustrates
him the most.
"Some of our issues did not
occur overnight and will not be
solved overnight," Rodriguez said
Monday. "Sometimes it takes a
little longer than I would like or
any of you like. I am less patient
than any of you or any fans that
we have."
It is easy to point a finger at
the massive adjustments needed
to run Rodriguez's spread-option
offense as the culprit for the Wol-
verines' struggles.
But the coach doesn't think
that the offensive systems itself is
the root of Michigan's woes. After
all, schemes will often change
under one coach, sometimes as
frequently as week-to-week dur-

ing a season.
"The transition, more than
anything, is going from not play-
ing to being on the scout team, to
being a second-or third-team guy,
then all of a sudden being a starter
and playing 70, 80 plays a game,"
Rodriguez said Tuesday.
Rodriguez didn't foresee that
type of transition before he came
to Ann Arbor. When asked Mon-
day if he thought success would
come sooner, he had just a five-
word answer:
"Not after I got here."
Rodriguez said that was
because 20 defensive recruits
from the last five classes have
left the program, and just four
of those departures were due to
graduation. A moderate level of
attrition is natural after a coach-
ing transition. But when over 40
percent of players leave on one
side of the ball, it is particularly
difficult for Rodriguez to develop
the depth he wants - three guys
at every position he feels comfort-
able with.
What he saw in personnel led
him to start two defensive walk-
ons against Illinois.
It isn't necessarily an issue
if one walk-on is playing regu-
larly - the player simply could
have been underrated in high
school - but it's usually a bad
sign when two defensive starters
are current or former walk-ons.
Especially when one, redshirt
sophomore linebacker Kevin
Leach, grades out the highest of
any defensive player against Illi-
nois after replacing Michigan's

active leader in career tackles,
redshirt junior Obi Ezeh.
"If we do the right job recruit-
ing and developing, three or four
years from now we won't have as
many true freshmen coming in as
playing, particularly in key roles,"
Rodriguez said. "If you've been
there for a while and developed a
program through the right guys,
you're not going to have nine, 10,
11 true freshmen suiting up and
playing. That's just a difference
in age.
"That's not an excuse, that's just
kind of where we're at. As coaches
we've got to figure out, 'Okay, how
do we make sure that this issue
and that issue is not an issue two,
three years from now.'"
A quick fix to this problem
would usually be looking to junior
college players. With a couple
years of playing experience, those
players can transfer to a FBS
team and make a more immediate
impact than a freshman.
But with Michigan's academic
policies, that isn't really an option.
A lot of the junior-college credits
simply won't transfer, according
to Rodriguez.
That means there is no short-
term solution to the bigger issues
at work in the program.
If Michigan makes a bowl
game, which it can qualify for
with one more win, then the Wol-
verines get 15 extra practices - a
small way to boost the team's
experience.
"It's almost like an extra spring
practice (which also lasts 15 ses-
sions)," Rodriguez said. "And you

0

Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez has started two walk-ons onthe defensive side of the ball this season.

get a chance to develop those
young guys."
But for Rodriguez, turning
around Michigan's recent fate
still comes down to restoring
depth. And that takes time.
"We are not good enough to

play poorly and win - we're not
at that point experience-wise and
talent-wise," Rodriguez said. "it
goes back to, if you ask this guy to
do this, maybe he's not capable of
doing that. So we've gone through
all those issues.

"My defensive staff and my
offensive staff, they have a lot
of experience in dealing with
this, and they've been in similar
situations. So they're all coming
together and thinking about it and
doing the best we can with it."

'M' takes 15th at
last tourney of'09

K IGA THETC
555055O
F F
AR IEL BOND/Daily
Junior Matt Rust and unior Louie Caporusso who take many of Michigan's faceoffs, will need to be at the top of their games this weekend against No.1 Miami (Ohio).
Faceoffs and puck control
will be key against M.\-iami
dSi U '. i I}.f a ir Loi . 1ond.efort ting, its.beinready

Ashley Bauer
ties Michigan
tournament record
By MICHAEL LAURILA
For the Daily
The Michigan women's golf team
finished its fall season in convincing
fashion yesterday at the Challenge
at Onion Creek, led by a standout
performance from senior captain.
Ashley Bauer.
Bauer finished tied for eighth
overall at the Onion Creek Golf Club
in Austin. Her performance was
strong even though the Wolverines,
with a score of 877, were far out-
matched by teams like Texas A&M,
who won the two-day tournament
with a score of 839. Bauer shot a 212,
which tied the Michigan 54-hole
tournament record.'
Fellow senior Andrea Ratigan
finished tied for 27th, shooting a
216. Ratigan was in 47th place com-
ing into the final day, but the senior
rebounded by shooting par and
moving up 20 places.
Even though Bauer's score tied a
Michigan record, Michigan coach
Cheryl Stacy said the senior still
didn't feel that was good enough.

"Our seniors played pretty well,"
Stacy said. "Ashley was disappoint-
ed, but that is because she has high
expectations. With this event being
par 70, she has some goals that she
just missed."
The Wolverines finished 15th out
of 21 teams and posted a season-best
score. Improving its combined team
scores each round, Michigan never
gave up and kept fighting during the
tournament to improve.
"I thought our team played a
little bit better than the results
showed," Stacy said. "Our scores
weren't that bad, but they could
have been better."
Also placing for Michigan were
junior Min Yean Tan, junior Kate-
lin Davis and sophomore Meagan
Bauer. Tan shot a season-best 222,
and Meagan Bauer tied her 54-hole
career best with 228. With the con-
clusion of this tournament, the Wol-
verines won't compete until they hit
the links for the spring 2010 season.
"We know what we need to work
on," Stacy said. "We know what our
strengths and weaknesses are and
we are going to do what we can to
improve on both this winter. We
are going to take a little bit of time
off, but then come right back and
get back to work preparing for the
spring season."

S,

nus
play
if
S

an U1UaporU1Usso nd effort thing, it's bigray
imit's being focused and bearing
~important role down."
a Wolverines' Michigan has two centers that
have experienced great success
uccess on ice on the draw this season - Rust
and junior Louie Caporusso. So
By TIM ROHAN far this season, Rust sports a
Daily Sports Writer 52 percent win percentage and
Caporusso has an impressive 60

can overpower him
quick him, you ca
effort him. Someti
lift his stick and 1
with your foot. Th
technique to it."
Berenson said th
be his choice for f
defensive zone beca
on the penalty kill,
so would be his pit
in the attacking zot

Matt Rust had just played a
bad game, and Michigan hockey
coach Red Berenson knew how
to fix it.
Then-No. 2 Michigan had lost
to Northern Michigan 2-0 in its
third game of the 2008-09 season
and Rust was 2-for-14 on faceoffs.
Despite his performance, the
team still finished the game
31-for-60 on the draw.
"I had to get all over him about
his faceoffs," Berenson said. "He
didn't have a good game. The
next night he was wired, and
he was (6-for-14). And he scored
two goals and had a great game.
It all starts with faceoffs."
Berenson has made sure his
players know the importance of
face offs, and the players practice
them weekly.
As Rust saw firsthand, win-
ning faceoffs can set the tone for
a player's game.
"I knew I would have a good
game if I started by winning
faceoffs," Berenson said of his
playing days. "Some players
think they have to work hard
or play the body. But with me it
started with faceoffs. Because if
you're winning the faceoffs, it's
a bit of a one-on-one battle. It's
not just a skill thing. It's a sec-

percent success rate through six

games.
Those two
players are
powerful
weapons in
maintaining
puck control.
As the team
struggles to
find consis-
tent third and
fourth line
centers, hav-
ing veterans
like Rust and Ca
more valuable.
In a tight gam
can often be key.]
the penalty kill, a
potentially give
one on the pow
team has a great
Knowing this iml
son teaches tech
to anticipate th
moves.
"You should I
what the other
do so that you
him and make su
his way on thec
said. "And some
matter of you k
what you're goin


w
it
"If you're wnning f
the faceoffs, it's a
a bit of a one-on- a
one battle." w
o]
(S
R
porusso is even his faceoff goals for
"Miami's so talent
e, special teams you want to maint
Lose a faceoff on specifically on the
nd the team can or on the PP."
up a goal. Win Rust and Cap
er play, and the played against Mi
chance to score. Carter Camper and
portance, Beren- gels on faceoffs be
tnique and how familiarity is some
e other team's centers will use to g
tage on the faceoff.
have an idea of But it's not an ex
guy is trying to "It's kinda tough
can go against russo said of what
re he doesn't get good at faceoffs.
draw," Berenson there's going to b
times it's just a just clash with yt
nowing exactly sometimes you've;
g to do and you (the matchups) up

, you can out- I've noticed playing in the NCAA
in out-second - some guys I'll clean out, and
imes you just other guys I'll use the same style
kick the puck and won't do anything against
ere's sort of a them."
Faceofftechnique is something
at Rust would that can be adjusted even during
aceoffs in the games.
use of his role The Wolverines monitor their
and Caporus- faceoff statistics throughout
ck for faceoffs games, and Berenson keeps an
ne. eye on them between periods to
Both players address a "glaring stat" for a key
vill need to be matchup on faceoffs later in the
n peak form game.
or this week- Set plays are also important
nd's series factors involved in faceoffs. Rust
gainst No. 1 said that Michigan had three or
Miami (Ohio) four good scoring chances off of
t Yost. faceoffs in the Wolverines' sweep
"As a team, of Lake Superior State last week-
ve need to be end.
n a 60-percent Those set plays had a large role
success rate)," last year, and Rust thinks it's just
ust said of a matter of time before they can
the weekend. take advantage of one of those
ed offensively, opportunities in the attacking
tain the puck zone.
(penalty) kill Miami features an attack
that has four players who have
'orusso have tallied eight or more points
ami forwards through the team's first eight
Tommy Win- games, including Camper and
fore, and that Wingels.
thing that the Winning faceoffs could sti-
gain an advan- fle that attack and provide an
offensive advantage for the
act science. Wolverines.
to tell," Capo- "It just jacks it up to another
it-takes to be level," Berenson said. "When
"Sometimes you look at Miami coming in this
me styles that weekend you know every part of
our style and the game is going to be impor-
got to switch tant. Faceoffs could be the differ-
. That's what ence in the game."

Jung to compete
at ITA Nationals

By ZELL ZOERHOF
For the Daily
Tomorrow, Michigan tennis
player Jason Jung will be the only
Big Ten player in the field of 32 at
the ITA National Intercollegiate
Indoor Championships in New
Haven, Conn.
Jung has been on fire this fall
after learning to play consistent-
ly. Nothing has fazed him in his
junior campaign.
Coming into this year with a
pedestrian .500 record in singles,
Jung has vastly surpassed those
numbers in the fall season.
"The previous two years, I have
played well but not consistent,"
Jungsaid. "Practice hasbeenbetter
by makingsure I focus on the right
things and play the same way."
Jung is currently 8-3 in singles
and 8-5 in doubles, and those wins
have come in impressive fashion.
On Oct. 16, he dominated against
Ohio State 6-1, 6-2. Then, partner-
ing with George Navas, he beat
the 26th-seeded Buckeyes doubles
team 9-7.
"I always have high expecta-
tions for myself," Jung said. "I
didn't expect it, but liked to think
I could do well."

Jung scares his opponents by
moving into the court when he can
and taking his chances well. He
knows his strategies and executes
them on a point-by-point basis.
The wins have started to pile up
thanks to a strong all-around
game and exceptional speed.
"Jason puts in the hard work,"
assistant coach Sean Maymi said.
"Sometimes it takes time to see
results. Tennis is a funny game. If
a couple things turn your way, it
givesyou confidence, and with more
focus, things have went his way."
. With Jung's deep run into the
singles semifinal and the doubles
final of the ITA Midwest Regional,
he earned the right to become one
of 32 players selected to the ITA
National Indoors where he will
play the best in collegiate tennis.
"The goal of every tournament
is to win," Jung said. "I know all
these guys playing, and I've got a
pretty good chance to do well. "
As the only Big Ten player to
qualify, Jung will need to keep his
confidence high as he heads into
his first match tomorrow.
When asked what will be his
key to success, Jung answered,
"By playing the same way I've
been playing."

6
0
0


