P iC i1 an4,.llatlg

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, November 6,2009

michigandaily.com
CITY COUNCIL
CVS gets OK
for State St.
location

JED MOCH/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman talks with the consul-general of China's Chicago consulate at an event launching the University's Confucius Institute yesterday
U opens Confucius Institute

To
bui
w
Stu
prescr
will fi:
Villag
a 14,0
macy.
Last
Counc
a plan
pharm
of Stat
The io
previo
Street
Yes
after
Arbor
sion aY
missio
The
$8 mil
rent I
June 2
Cou
(D-W,
preser

preserve historic she backed the building proposal.
I appreciate work to restore
ding, pharmacy the fa ade of the structure,"
Smith told the council last night.
ill keep facade Councilmember Tony Derez-
inski (D-Ward 2) added that the
By DYLAN CINTI construction team plans to build
Daily StaffReporter from the top down to leave the
fagade intact. Derezinski said the
dents -looking to pick up- Planning Commission was also
iptions or buy toothpaste pleased with the construction
sally havean alternative to team's willingness to keep the
;Apothecary in the form of building's facade.
00-square-foot CVS/phar- Both Derezinski and Smith
emphasized that no large phar-
night, Ann Arbor City mary currently exista for down-
:i1 unanimously approved town residents and CVS will fill
to construct a new CVS/ that void.
acy near the intersection Smith said though she would
e Street and LibertyStreet. prefer a local business to a large
cation, 209 S. State St., was chain like CVS, the store's size
uslyoccupiedbySava'sState will better accommodate the
Cafe and atattoo parlor. downtown community.
terday's resolution came "There's a lot of new residents
approval from the Ann coming into the area and this
Historic District Commis- really fills a piece that's much
nd the City Planning Com- needed," Smith said. "I'd like to
n in May. say this is going to be an indepen-
project, estimated to cost dent local store, but we don't see
lion, will preserve the cur- those in existence anymore."
building's front facade, a Construction will take about
1 Daily article reported. six months to complete, John
tncilmember Sandi Smith Baumann, director of the con-
ard 1) cited the fagade's struction team representing CVS,
vation as one of the reasons See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7A

New center furthers
University effort to
develop relations
with China
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
Chinese dignitaries and Univer-
sity leaders came together at the
University of Michigan Museum of
Art yesterday to hear and see ethnic
Chinese music and performances
to commemorate the official open-

ing of the University's Confucius
Institute.
The opening of the institute
comes during a recent push by
University officials to strengthen
the University's relationship with
China. University President Mary
Sue Coleman traveled to the coun-
try in 2005 as part of the effort, and
the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts picked China as the
semester theme for the 2008-2009
school year.
The institute, one of more than
60 in the United States, aims to
develop educational cooperation
between the two countries and

increase Chinese language educa-
tion. The University's institute will
serve as the national leader of insti-
tutes across the country.
In addition, the opening cul-
minates two years of efforts by a
Confucius Institute planning com-
mittee. The institute began as an
effort to pursue Coleman's Task
Force on China, which she began in
2005 to help increase ties between
China and the University.
"We will showcase Chinese art
and culture," Coleman said at the
event. "We will collaborate with
organizations throughout south-
east Michigan. We are going to

share the depths of China's rich
culture."
The all-day event began yes-
terday morning with a lion dance
performed by students from the
Chinese Ensemble of Renmin Uni-
versity of China. It was followed
by speeches by both members of
the Confucius Institute committee
from the University and directors
and consuls from China.
While there are more than 300
Confucius Institutes worldwide,
the University's is unique in that it
draws specifically upon the musi-
cal and arts culture in China rather
See CONFUCIUS, Page 7A


0 CAMPUS HEALTH
New study shows mental health
issues on the rise at universities

PENNE A LA PROTEST

Since 2000, students
seeking depression
help has increased
10 to 15 percent
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
LSA senior Emily Cepla has
been dealing with depression ever
since the seventh grade, but it
didn't really affect her schoolwork
until she reached the University
her freshman year.
"My grades started to suffer
because I couldn't get out of bed,"

she said. "I wasn't going to classes
and I wasn't doing my homework.
It also affected my social life
because since I wasn't getting out
of bed, I wasn't going out."
Cepla's struggle with the
depression continued and by the
time she reached her junior year
she had tried 15 different kinds of
anti-depressant medication and
none of them seemed to work.
And Cepla is not alone.
A recent study by a University
researcher confirms what many
have suspected for some time:
many college students suffer from
mental illness and a sizable por-
tion of them don't seek help.
In an article that has yet to be

published in the Journal of Ado-
lescent Health, Public Health
Assistant Prof. Daniel Eisenberg
writes that 95 percent of campus
psychological counseling centers
surveyed in 2008 reported a sig-
nificant increase in mental health
issues among students.
The article goes on to say that
the proportion of students report-
ing to have been diagnosed with
depression has increased between
10 to 15 percent since 2000.
"Whether that's because stu-
dents are more likely to seek help
than they used to be as opposed to
the possibility that there are just
more students with mental health
See MENTAL HEALTH, Page 7A

UNIVERSITY REEARCH

MAX OLLtIS/Daiiy
Members of the Restaurants Opportunities Committee, which is comprised primarily of University students, walk to the first of
four restaurants they plan on protesting this month. The roughly 100-person group walked into Andiamo's Italian restaurant in
Dearborn, Mich. last night to drop off papers that stated if an agreement between the employees and management wasn't met
in the next two weeks, alawsuit would be filed against the restaurant.
Business School community
remembers Robert Koonce

Four'U'researchers win
Awards given for through the Exceptional, Uncon-
ventional esearch Enabling
research projects Knowledge Acceleration (EURE-
KA) program. The program aims
that are usually to promote studies examining
unproven hypotheses that would
swept aside not usually receive financial sup-
port.
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN Dr. Jon-Kar Zubieta, profes-
DailyStaffReporter sor of psychiatry and radiology
at the University Medical School,
Four University researchers who received a EUREKA grant of
have been awarded prestigious $1.2 million, said the NIH uses the
grants totaling $4.7 million from grant to support projects that are
the National Institute of Health often overlooked.
for completely outside the box "They were basically looking
research projects. The grants were for what they call high-risk, high-
awarded for medicine, chemistry impact grants that are maybe,
and engineering, because of complexity or because
The NIH awarded the grants they are more bold, don't typically

NIH grants
(receive) usual funding mecha-
nisms," Zubieta said.
Zubieta researches how the
placebo effect influences patients
suffering from substance abuse
and depression's neurobiological
mechanisms. He hopes to further
his research by' honing in on the
neural systems that cause placebo
effects to occur.
Dr. Joseph Holoshitz, professor
of internal medicine and associate
chief for research in the Division
of Rheumatology at the University
Medical School, also received $1.2
million in EUREKA grants.
Over the past few years,
Holoshitz has been researching
the occurrence of arthrosclerosis
See GRANTS, Page 7A

At tearful memorial,
friends and family
celebrate Ross
administrator's life
By OLIVIA CARRINO
Daily StaffReporter
As jazz music played and a photo
montage cycled through, people
were ushered into Blau Auditorium
late yesterday afternoon for a cere-
mony to celebrate the life of Robert
Koonce, director of Undergraduate

Student Affairs at the Ross School
of Business.
During the memorial, Koonce,
who died Sunday morning, was
commemorated as a "selfless" man
who believed in each of his stu-
dents. Koonce's colleagues, friends
and students took to the podium,
describing him as a truly "larger
than life man."
Koonce graduated from the
University in 1994 with a Masters
of Arts degree in higher educa-
tion administration and began his
career at the University in 2004 as
a student advisor.
He pioneered MREACH, a pro-

gram that connects high school
students in Detroit and Ypsilanti
with the Ross School of Business.
Koonce also started the Prepara-
tion Initiative, which tutors Univer-
sity students interested in applying
to the Business School at the end of
their freshman year.
Scott Moore, BBA Program
Faculty Director, spoke about his
favorite memories of Koonce at the
event. He said though Koonce was
"a pain in the behind" at times, he
was always a caring, thoughtful
and kind individual.
With tears in his eyes, Rackham
See MEMORIAL, Page 7A

WEATHER HI: 58
TOMORROW LO 47

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
New website fills Juicy Campus's gossip void.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS......2A CLASSIFIEDS .....................6A
Vol. CXX, No. 42 OPINION ..........................4A SPORTS.. . . . 8A
'2009Th MichiganDaily ARTS... . . . 5A FOOTBALL SATURDAY..........1B
michivuoduilycow


2A - Friday, November 6, 2009
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

J
..
71W k
1 .
Af!F
i w

LEFT A bug crawls off the field at Memorial Stadium during Michigae's 38-13 loss
to Illinois as Saturday. (CLIF REEDER/Daily) ABOVE The University of Michigan
Concert eand performs as part of eaed-o-rama, which features performances
by various mosical groops on Satorday. (TOREHAN SHARtMAN/Daily) RIGHT
Memhers of the MUSKET mosical theatre company rehearse as Tuesday for their
upcomine prodoction of "Hair." (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily)
MORE ONLINE
Get more photos of the week at michigandailycom

420 Maynard Sn.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327,
www.michigandaify.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief easiness Monomer
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaiycom tmdbusiness@gmnait.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:Sun.-Thurs.11 a.m. - 2 .n.
News Tipsnes@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigasdailyom.
Arts Section artupagu@miuhigasidaily.con
Editorial Page" opinion@michigandailyucom
Sports Section sports@michigandailyuconf
Display Sales disptay@michigandaily.comes
Classified Soles claoifird@oichioandaity.coss
OnlinetSales onlineads@michigandaily.cam
Flounce finance@msichigandiy.coms
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Manuging~ditor ratkoweiak@michigandaily.com
lacob Smilodit anaogingNesEditor soitmicsshigandaily.coms
SNIsOR NEWS nEuIS: Matt Auronsun,uJllia n usma, Trevsorulero, Jssnu
Skller,KeSw nsn
AsSSIS sAN s NEWSEORNiolelsAber, allrymonsu, EOnly OlseuSaie
Snibeg snuhwanshirunusukknnau
RoberttSoave EditorialtPagtEditor uoave@michigandiy.coms
uSSSAN DIORIALePAGE EDOS:EmmaJsk,sMatthewsSutter
Andp Reid ManagrngtporsoEditor reid@michiganduily.coms
SENI0R SPORS EITRS:c ojlesAuerbach, Mike Eiusensein, IunOay, Ruths
Kartje, Chrius Mesrs,RnPoesds
David Watnick MngngoersoEditor watnick@eshhigadaiyoss
SENIsOnARSnEDIS:amsieBlsk,uWhitnse Po
uSITN RS E IOSo~sua ayuu aoulnKlarecki,uundrwpnse,Daiduivao,
ZacharypMeiner and phouo@michigandailycom
CliReeder Managing Photo Editos
SENORP OOIOS: Saidullah, ChasslcVsnuHbburg.Lsshsiugen
uASoSSTANPOTOsEDuTORSMColliss, Crsiu snobak,Oun Wosuon
Angela Chih anddesign@eshigasdaityconn
Muareentypch Manuging Design ditors
Jesdica Vosgerchian Magaine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.oms
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chire mitchell@eshhigosdaily.coss
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak SsurManager
SALES FORCEoMANs ER:uonClls Twig
Ryan Businski Clasoifird Mansoers
CLASSIFE SnuSIuS'TuNTMuNuGER:KalaLasata
Ben Engish ProductioneManaer
Allison SantacreU LayoutMunager
Vivian Lee FinanceManager
Brittany Morales Cisculation Manager
Brad Wiley Projercoordinaor
TherMihiguntDaiyl(ISNta74-96t)is publshre ondyuthoughtridayiduringshrfall adsintr
termsby studnsatthre ivrsity of Micigan.One copyisuavailabefro harg tosallsreadrs.'
Aditaleoisul ay bespikupuatthe Dalsofcefr $ ustcruiptions fr fll r,staring n
Setbr, vssia. S aluare$1f itterm (aues aruuy throuh April)lis $115 yrurlonSepltembe r
"through April is'fI9t.-Utirlyfre s resssubjet to a reduced subscriptionrt. On-campus
subiptionsforfailtrrsuarft.uusciptosnumstbeprepidThcirlgutDily isunrsbrof
Theususoi uedPradTheAoioated Collegiateress.

"1

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Student swipes
energy bar, gets
arrested
WHERE: Michigan League
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9:55 a.
WHAT: A student was arrest-
ed for stealing a Luna Bar
valued or $1.99 from U-Go's
convenience store, University
Police reported.
Gate ignored
WHERE: West Medical Cen-
ter
WHEN: Wednesday at about
8:30 p.m.
WHAT: An unidentified indi-
viduol drove through the gate
on the third level of the park-
log structure, University Police
reported.

Dorm residents The Charlatan
found with pot WHAT: Concert perfor-
mance showing the rare
WHERE: East Quadrangle operetta written in the
WHEN: Wednesday at about f130s by Czech composer,
10:55 p.m. Panel Haas. Student tick-
WHAT: Two students living in ets are on sale for $12 and
the dorms were written up as adult tickets for $15.
suspects possessing marijuana, WHO: Michigan
University Police reported. Union Ticket Office
The quantity of suspected WHEN: Today at a p.m.
marijuana was in encess of one WHERE: Vitosha
gram. Guest Moostnn
License plate Al-oyBn
stolen from car performs
WHERE: East Medical Center
WHEN: Thursday at about WHAT: Keith Terry usinsg
1:30 p.m. his own body Co create
WHAT: A license plate was percussive and rhythmsic
removed from a parked vehicle, sounds in a performance
University Police reported. blending music, dance,
There are no suspects. and theater. Student

G-men perform
WHAT: Showcase of
student performance
groups. Student tick-
ets on sale for $5.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Today ate8 p.m.
WHERE: Rackhamn Gradu-
ate School Auditorium
Research grant
workshop
WHAT: Workshop giv-
ing overview on the use
of online and human
resources in getting grants
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today from
1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, iRoom 206
CORRECTIONS
P Pese report any error-
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1Ford unveiled plans to
offer inflatable seat belts
for rear-seat passengers,
according to USA Today.
Woven with a softer fabric, the
seat belts enpand like an air bag
during a collision. Ford hopes
the new design will encourage
passengers to buckle up.
2In last year's election,
Michigan became the
13th state to allow certain
patients with specific medical
conditions to use marijuana.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3 Colombian drug lord
Pablo Escobar's estate
has been turned into a
theme park, according to Pox
Newsucom. Equipped with
an airplane runway and bull
fighting ring, the 4,000-acre
property also houses hippo-
ptmssintroduced- into-
South America by Escobar
himself.


M~ORE ONLINE
Love Crime Noe? Get noteolneoat michigdaily~csm/logs/he wirh5s,

WHO: University
Musical Society
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: H ill Auditorium

t:
P

0

01

lars raised

0 4

0

0

i
d


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 6, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 6, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
"LANSING, Mitt.
State House votes
to give stimulus
moneyto schools
The Michigan House voted
yesterday to tap federal stimulus
money set aside for next year to
soften a cut in school funding
now, but it's unlikely the move is
going to win the support of the
state Senate.
By a mostly party-line vote of
74-29, a majority of House mem-
bers said the $184 million should
be used to help schools avoid all
but $10 of a $127-per-student cut
Granholm ordered last month.
Schools still would see their
funding drop by the equivalent
of $165 per student. That was the
decrease lawmakers passed in
the school aid budget for the fis-
cal year that started Oct. 1.
UNITED NATIONS
U.N. urges Gaza
investigation
The U.N. General Assembly
urged Israel andthe Palestinians
Thursday to investigate alleged
war crimes during last winter's
conflict in Gaza and raised the
possibility of Security Council
action if they don't.
The 192-member world body
approved an Arab-drafted reso-
lution by a vote of 114-18, with 44
abstentions and 16 countries not
* voting.
Supportersinsistedtheremust
be accountability - especially
from Israel - for the alleged vio-
lations of international law dur-
ing the Gaza conflict in which
13 Israelis and almost 1,400 Pal-
estinians were killed, including
many civilians.
Israel rejected the resolution
as "deeply flawed, one-sided and
prejudiced" while the United
States called it "unbalanced and
biased" and warned that it will
hurt prospects for achieving
Mideast peace. Others voting
"no" included Australia, Canada,
Germany, Italy, Panama and a
number of other European and
Pacific island states.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.
Ten-year-old boy
kills father, now
faces charges
Desperation filled the voice of
the boy on the other end of the
phone line. Through fits of agi-
tation and sobbing, he pleaded
repeatedly with the emergency
operator on the other end to send
someone quickly.
"Oh, I hope he'll live ... Just
get a doctor over here!" the boy
demands.
"Hurry up! Please hurry up.
It looks like he's dying," the boy
begs the operator, as his 6-year-
old sister sobs in the back-
ground.
A recording of a six-minute
911 call obtained yesterday by

the Associated Press details the
moments that Aug. 27 night after
the boy allegedly shot his father
in the head with a shotgun.
Police arrived soon after to find
the boy waving them down out-
side the family's home in Belen,
just south of Albuquerque.
His father, 42-year-old Bryon
Hilburn, was on the floor inside,
still breathing, when officers
arrived. He died later that night
at an Albuquerque hospital.
Now, the boy - who was
10 years old at the time of the
shooting - faces a charge of
first-degree murder.
GARCIA, Mexico
Suspects arrested
in army general's
assassination
Authorities have arrested 10
suspects - including 4 police
officers - in the assassination
of an army general who had
been appointed police chief of a
northern Mexican town over the
Weekend.
Nuevo Leon state Attorney
General Alejandro Garza y Garza
says the killing of Brig. Gen. Juan
Arturo Esparza had its origins in
n illegal quarrying company.
He said yesterday that one of
the suspects was facing inves-
Ligation for operating the com-
pany and had enlisted the help
of organized crime members to
totimidate officials in the town
cf Garcia outside the northern
industrial city of Monterrey.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports
ri S

12 dead, 31 hurt in attack at Fort Hood

Gunman, a military
major, captured and
under military guard
FORT HOOD, Texas (AP) - An
Army psychiatrist set to be shipped
overseas opened fire at the Fort
Hood Army post yesterday, authori-
ties said, a rampage that killed 12
people and left 31 wounded in the
worst mass shooting ever at a mili-
tary base in the United States.
The gunman, first said to have
been killed, was wounded but alive
and in stable condition under mili-
tary guard, said Lt. Gen. Bob Cone at
Fort Hood. "I would say his death is
not imminent," Cone said. Col. Ben
Danner said the suspect was shot at
least four times.
The man was identified as Maj.
Nidal Malik Hasan, a 39-year-old,
eight-year veteran from Virginia.
President Barack Obama called
the shooting atthe Soldier Readiness
Center, where soldiers who are about
to be deployed or who are returning
undergo medical screening, "a hor-
rific outburst of violence."
"It's difficult enough when we
lose these brave Americans in bat-
ties overseas," the commander in
chief said. "It is horrifying that they
should come under fire at an Army
base on American soil."
There was no official word on
motive. Hasan had transferred toFort
Hood inJuly from Walter Reed Medi-
cal Center, where he received a poor
performance evaluation, according to
an official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because he was not autho-
rized to discuss the case publicly.
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison,
R-Texas, said generals at Fort Hood
told her that Hasan was about to
deploy overseas. Retired Col. Terry
Lee, who said he had worked with

Hasan, told Fox News he was being
sent to Afghanistan.
Lee said Hasan had hoped Obama
would pull troops out of Afghani-
stan and Iraq and got into frequent
arguments with others in the mili-
tary who supported the wars.
Officials were investigating
whether Hasan was his birth name
or if he may have changed his name,
possibly as part of a conversion to
Islam. However, they were not cer-
tain of his religion.
Video from the scene showed
police patrolling the area with
handguns and rifles, duckingbehind
buildings for cover. Sirens could
be heard wailing while a woman's
voice on a public-address system
urged people totake cover.
"I was confused and just
shocked," said Spc. Jerry Richard,27,
who works at the center but was not
on duty during the shooting. "Over-
seas you are ready for it. But here you
can't even defend yourself."
Soldiers at Fort Hood don't carry
weapons unless they are doing
training exercises.
The Rev. Greg Schannep was
about to head into a graduation
ceremony when a man in uniform
approached him, warning him that
someone had opened fire. Schannep
heard three volleys of gunfire and
saw people running.
"There was a burst of shots and
more bursts of shots and people
running everywhere," said Schan-
nep, who works for local Congress-
man John Carter.
The uniformed man who had
warned him ran to the theater.
Schannepsaid he could seethe man's
back was bloodied from a wound.
The man survived, was treated and
will be fine, Schannep said.
Cone said initially three people
were held, and all have been inter-
viewed. Authorities believe, howev-

Lt. Gen. Bob Cone speaks to members of the media during a news conference at Bernie Beck {
after an attack on the base that ended in the capture of Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, an eight-year

er, that there was a single shooter.
The Soldier Readiness Center
holds hundreds of people and is one
of the most populated parts of the
base, said Steve Moore, a spokesman
for III Corps at Fort Hood. Nearby
there are barracks and a food center
where there are fast food chains.
The wounded were dispersed
among hospitals in central Texas,
Cone said. Their identities, and

the identities of the dead, were not
immediately released.
'Amber Bahr, 19, was shot in the
stomach but was in stable condition,
said her mother, Lisa Pfund of Ran-
dom Lake, Wis.
"We know nothing, just that she
was shot in the belly," Pfund told
The Associated Press. She couldn't
provide more details and only spoke
with emergency personnel.

Hasan was single with no chil-
dren. He graduated from Virginia
Tech, where he was a member of
the ROTC and earned a bachelor's
degree in biochemistry in 1997. He
received his medical degree from
the military's Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences
in Bethesda, Md., in 2001 and was
at Walter Reed for six years for his
internshipresidencyand afellowship.


I

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
-%a? L5'at 77 (o 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
F HappyH W Buffet 4-7
310 Maynard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parking Structure
- U, 13 -IU


ATTENTION: F'RESHMEN & SOPHOMORES!
ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?

We need new account executives for
the Winter/Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
Close deals
Convince skeptics
Become a leader
and build a Killer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(734) 764-0554
or e-mail, attn: Molly Twigg
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Application deadline
for Winter 2010 positions:
November 20, 2009



4A - Friday, November 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

1l e ticl igan i[y

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

Greetings feolks
Due to popular demand,
Out to Pasture" wilnow
delight you wi the joys
of the seasos e
o xaci
L3
o ~6aAa&.90
0~ ~

That's right In ain unprce-
dented move in comi srp
history we will be fetning 
100% Christmas music lyrcs
for the next two months!
6tti

Ill

So sit back, relax, and enjoy
orcompletc lack of nnir a
wy a
Because if there's a gray to a
beat a beloved tradition to a
death well doit



GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

b
AF
A

C
tia
. V

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Progress makes perfect
State must continue to lead on stem cells, marijuana reform
year after the historic election of President Barack Obama,
the verdict may still be out as to whether he's living up to
expectations. But for voters in Michigan, this year's Elec-
tion Day marked another important one-year anniversary - the
state's approval of ballot initiatives legalizing medical marijuana
and expanding stem cell research. While these progressive mea-
sures were intended to provide relief for the chronically ill, they
are affecting many residents of Michigan in positive ways. A year
after their approval, positive developments are occurring on both
the stem cell and medical marijuana fronts - and Michigan must
continue to be a leader on these issues.

In last year's election, Michigan became
the 13th state to allow certain patients
with specific medical conditions to use
marijuana. With permission from a doctor,
patients gained the legal right to cultivate
and use marijuana to help relieve their
symptoms. But the legalization process has
not been seamless - with some users still
facing unjust legal repercussions - nor has
it provided a method for users to obtain
marijuana short of growing it themselves
or using approved sources. Supporters of
medical marijuana rallied in Lansing in
early October for clear regulations to make
use easier.
In addition to removing legal hurdles
to medical marijuana use, the state gov-
ernment needs to make sure it doesn't fall
behind other governing bodies that are
beginning to adopt even more lenient mar-
ijuana policies. Marijuana usage should
be legal, for medical and non-medical rea-
sons, and public sentiment is slowly but
surely turning in favor of such a position.
Indeed, supporters in California are pre-
paring to launch a ballot initiative cam-
paign calling for total legalization.{Even
the U.S. Justice Department is is shift-
ing opinion, announcing last month that
federal officials wouldn't arrest patients
following state laws regarding medicinal
marijuana use.
Michigan is ahead of much of the coun-
try in legalizing a safe, already widely
practiced behavior. But the state can do

even better. Michigan should continue to
push the envelope, allowing users to obtain
marijuana more easily and eventually aim-
ing for total legalization.
And while Michigan can be said to
be at the head of the pack on marijuana
reform, the state is even stronger on stem
cell reform. Last year's Proposal 2 lifted
restrictions on stem cell research, instant-
ly making Michigan competitive with
other states in a promising field of study
that has the potential to cure diseases and
save lives. And as a sign of the state's prog-
ress, Gov. Jennifer Granholm announced
on Oct. 15 that Detroit would be the site
of the 2010 World Stem Cell Summit. The
event will be co-hosted by the University,
Michigan State University, Wayne State
University and the Michigan Economic
Development Corporation.
Michigan must keep its place at the fore-
front of stem cell research. Aside from the
obvious benefit of saving lives, increased
stem cell research brings the best minds
to our universities and the state. This will
create jobs and expand the state's indus-
tries intocutting-edge research and devel-
opment fields, facilitating an economic
transformation.
One year after the passage of these bene-
ficial and progressive amendments, Michi-
gan stands at the forefront of important
social and economic changes. State policy
must continue to push the envelope on
these issues in the years to come.
ND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
other states and countries.
Additionally, these items are not displaced
because they are "redundant or conventionally
uninteresting to the museum." Items are kept in
storage for many reasons. Some are not stable
enough for display and need to be kept in cli-
mate-controlled settings. Others are not a part
of the Kelsey's current thematic display. Some
are currently being used by researchers or are
under repair.
While I understand Syed's dissatisfaction
with 19th and early 20th century antiquities
laws and, in fact, share his view, his argument
about returning items to their countries is lost
in the random list of complaints that he seems
to have.
Syed moves from the concentration of wealth
at the top of society to the fact no one ever uses
these artifacts, detours to a comment about
"colonialist advances" and then somehow ends
with a demand for recognition that an archae-
ologist somewhere might have gotten an artifact
under less-than-ethical circumstances. What is
Syed's real complaint? That the Kelsey has too
many artifacts in storage? That the Kelsey
should give everything back, except for the
things they're using, the things they loan to
people, or the things other people use? Or that
colonialism is bad?
Syed would be well-served by researching
his topic and focusing his argument. Com-
plaining about a lot of different things on a
similar topic doesn't indicate a valid argument
about any of them.
Lisa Lark
School ofEducation

Sophomore year slump
C onventional wisdom says that has been assigned to you by the many free resources for help with
that freshman year is the big University? Most of the big decisions career choices, roommate crises,
transition year for college are made for freshmen with little clash selection and many of the other
students leaving wiggle room. With Resident Advi- decisions a Wolverine has to make on
home for the first -- - sors and academic counselors thrust a day-to-day basis. There is a study
time. It's impos- upon them, new students can almost abroad group on CTools, professors
sible to ignore the put themselves on autopilot. that double as advisors, and, if you
hype about mov- 4 But come sophomore year, paren- actually take the time to look, more
ing from high tal and staff support subsides while information on Wolverine Access
school to college, course lists become daunting. There than you could possibly imagine.
and every home- is no longer an obviously laid out yel-
ward-bound frosh low brick road for students to follow.
is interrogated For the first time since their arrival Second-years
about it during his LEAH at the University, many sophomores are
or her first visit PTI are expected to make important like the m d l
home. Parents POTKIN decisions on their own. I may know middle
ask nervously and my way from East Hall to the Mod-
family friends ask ern Language Building better, but' children of college.
cordially, but the adjustment to col- aside from that, I think freshman
lege is on everyone's mind. year enhanced my partying skills
For me, freshman year was filled more than my decision-making ones. Another option is to form our
with new faces and new opportu- The truth is that the transition own means of support through peer
nities, and my infatuation with my from coddled freshman to self-suffi- groups. Today, I got an e-mail from
dream university lasted all the way cient, independent sophomore isn't my sorority announcing the forma-
from Welcome Week through final as easy as one might expect, and the tion of e-mail groups for each popu-
exams. I hardly ever thought about challenges and growing pains may lar major. This provides a supporting
the transition. But I'm finding that make it the most emotionally difficult network of peers who likely share
my sophomore year is much more of of the college years. I'm not trying similar academic struggles. And,
a struggle. For me and for many oth- to understate the challenges facing once again, this resource is free.
ers, sophomore year is the real tran- overburdened upperclassmen, who After recognizing the resources
sition year. as juniors are forced to address press- available to me, I trust I will be able
Sophomores are like middle chil- ing scholastic decisions and as seniors to make much more effective deci-
dren - somewhat ignored, but seek- must start planning for the real world. sions when choosing my classes for
ing the attention that, in this case, is But somewhere in the mix of every- the winter semester. And though it
usually centered on incoming fresh- thing, sophomore year gets lost. And will surely take me the remainder
men and upperclassmen. But upper- with nowhere to channel their anxi- of this school year - perhaps longer'
classmen already have two years of ety, many sophomores end up wan- - to fully make my transition to life
experience under their belts and are dering, seeking direction without the as an independent college student,
self-sufficient by necessity. obvious guideposts that facilitated this Thanksgiving, I will be the one
On the other end of the spectrum, most of their previous travels. at the dinner table asking the ques-
freshmen have yet to cut the cord So, what's a troubled sophomore to tions and seeking advice. While I
binding them to their homes. Parents do? Maybe the answer lies in learn- may have soared through fresh-
still do everything in their power ing to seek out the help and guidance man year without a glitch, the road
to check up on their babies-turned- that was so readily handed to them in is still filled with many bumps, and
young adults and help them adjust to the past. As I started to realize that attention and guidance are still very
the college routine. I wasn't going to be spoon-fed help much appreciated.
What's so hard about signing up for and started looking for it on my own,
a few classes from a list of required I realized that resources and support -Leah Potkin can be reached
courses or moving into a dorm room are available. In fact, the school has at ipotkin@umich.edu.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
NICHOLAS CLIFT |
A broken B.S. detector

0

6
0

Rich Rod's coachingfails to
encourage team to be great
TO THE DAILY:
I have to be honest and say I was not a fan of
Rich Rodriguez when he was hired. Iam an avid
defender of Lloyd Carr and I think he was forced
out too soon. But that is neither here nor there.
On Monday, Rich Rod was quoted as saying,
"I mean, I want everybody to have patience. I
don't have much of it, but I wish our players
would" (Warren and Graham look off the field
for defensive answers, 11/02/2009). What does
Rodriguez mean by this? Does it mean Carlos
Brown and Brandon Minor should have more
patience running the football? Should Tate
have more patience in the pocket or should the
defensive backs be more patient on routes so as
not to get beat deep?
To me, he is saying that the players should
wait to return to Michigan's dominance and
that the players need tobe patient till he has his
"type" of players in there. Bu, that's bullshit.
Why should Brandon Graham have to wait
for Michigan to return to a powerhouse? It's
his senior year. He has three games left in his
Michigan career, and his coach is telling him to
be patient? I think Rich Rod is sending his team
the wrong message by saying that. The talent
is there to be winning - the Notre Dame game
proves. that - but Rodriguez is telling them to
wait? He should want his players to want to
win right away, go to the Rose Bowl and com-
pete for a National Championship.
This may not mean a lot coming from just an
average student, but I say to the players: Don't
be patient or wait for it - go get it. Win your
last three games and beat Ohio State. I sure
hope Rodriguez doesn't tell you to be patient
when that game comes around, because you
guys have earned it.
Matt Kautz
LSA junior
Syed mischaracterizes the
practices ofKelsey Museum
TO THE DAILY:
It is clear from Imran Syed's most recent col-
umn that he didn't attend the Kelsey Museum
opening and that he didn't speak with any Kelsey
staff members (Hoarding history, 11/02/2009).
While it's true that the vast majority of the
Kelsey's collection is kept in storage, by no
means are these items being "hoarded" or are
"concentrated in the hands of the elite few." The
Kelsey Museum is open to the public, and its col-
lections are used by researchers across campus
and indeed across the world. Pieces from the
Kelsey's collection are on display in museums in

The Internet has knocked America's B.S. detector
askew. Americans are so used to attributing the national
stench to Washington that we haven't noticed our own
steaming piles - the premature, poorly informed politi-
cal conclusions we've all been jumping to. In gaining the
freedom to explore all the views the Web has to offer, we
also have new power to see only those ideas consistent
with the conclusions we've already made. But the crap is
starting to hit the fan. Those bad, smelly conclusions are
dividing America.
We should have first smelled it during the national
health care debate. During Congress's summer recess, we
saw images of extremists shouting over others at town
hall meetings to discuss health care. Their rude interrup-
tions suggest that gears are grinding somewhere within
our old democracy. When people become so frustrated
that they see no worth in the views of their opponents,
something is wrong.
And it's not just those already on the fringe who are
growing more extreme. A poll conducted by the Pew
Research Center in May, just as the health care issue was
moving to center stage, shows that the political parties,
are more starkly different than ever. In two years, the
percentage of Republicans who believed that government
regulation of business does more harm than good rose
from 57 percent to 75 percent. Over the same time peri-
od, the proportion of Democrats who agreed sank from
57 percent to 41 percent. Divisions grew similarly across
a variety of issues, with what Pew defines as the "aver-
age difference between the opinions" at its highest since
measurement began 22 years ago.
There's nothing inherently smelly about disagree-
ment, but the growing contrast can't be explained by
the personal nature of health care or economic recovery.
Instead, division has grown because the ideas Americans
are exposed to are less diverse, and decisions made while
cut off from the broader realities of issues are stinky ones
indeed.
The Internet, hailed by some as the tool to diversify
our information intake, has done much the opposite.
Provided with millions of Web pages, most prefer using

the Internet to tailor the information they read. It's a
phenomenon renowned Harvard Law professor Cass
Sunstein spoke about when he visited the University last
December. According to the Daily on Dec. 12,.2008, Sun-
stein argued that the Internet tends to lead people into
isolation "from the variety of beliefs and opinions needed
for rational political discourse." With plenty of sites like
the Huffington Post and political blogs to choose from,
people are getting better and better at avoiding acciden-
tal encounters with opposing viewpoints.
When opinions are never exposed to the sanitizing
power of daylight, they tend to grow uglier. In one study
Sunstein conducted, conservatives and liberals were sepa-
rated into two groups and asked to discuss political issues.
Over the course of the study, people in both groups devel-
oped more extreme views. They were isolated from the
whole debate and thought their conclusions were reason-
able. In other words, their detectors were knocked askew.
Impressively, New York Times columnist Thomas 4
Friedman made my point about growing extremism with-
out a single allusion to feces. He compared the current
poisonous political environment in this country to that in
Israel in the days leading up to the assassination of Israeli
Prime Minister Yitznak Rabin in 1995. Rabin, who was
ready to trade land for peace with Palestine as part of the
Oslo Accords, was portrayed by some right-wing Israelis
as a treasonous Nazi until one Israeli extremist ended
Rabin's life. "The parallels to Israel then and America
today turn my stomach," Friedman wrote in a Sept. 29
New York Times column.
With so many Americans isolated from exposure to
opposing ideas, the division is crippling national debate.
When it comes to health care and fixing the economy, we
must choose to be exposed to ideas we find contrary to
our own. Otherwise, compromise will remain elusive and
urgent issues will continue to be left unresolved. It's time
to recalibrate our collective crap sensor, start reading the
blogs we disagree with and bring moderation back to the
national debate.
Nicholas Clift is an Engineering freshman.


U libraries offer many
resources for students' use
TO THE DAILY:
This is a gentle reminder from your friends at
the University of Michigan Library in response
to the coverage of the copyright infringement
case against the local shop Excel (Excel Test
,rep loses lawsuit overcopyright infringement,
10/30/2009). The University Library acquires
through purchase and license a phenomenal
range of materials available to University stu-
dents and faculty. Many materials are available
electronically through our website. All of these
materials are legally available for your aca-
demic needs. Before seeking copies through a
course pack, take a moment to see if we have
what you need.
Our librarians can help you in person at
any of our locations, and of course at www.
lib.umich.edu. For copyright guidance, go to
www.lib.umich.edu/copyright.
Kathleen Folger and Melissa Levine
University ofMichigan Library staff
i "1

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and
University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Capturing Zemeckis
DAny ~ X a s Au a D ,« 1,:.,,. an :. iove wit it ...... oecause tney .--- unes A tnati i's aii

Friday, November 6, 2009 - 5A

it

By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
When filmmakers approach projects that are
widely known and have already been explored by
other artists, the most important thing they face is
the question of originality. How will they stay faith-
ful to a timeless story while also creating something
fresh and viewable?
In director Robert Zemeckis's estimation, finding
originality in his retelling of "A Christmas Carol" is
a matter of technical modernity - specifically in his
use of the modern technique called "performance
capture." This process involves the transference of
live motion to 3-D animation, and it has been used
in three of Zemeckis's films ("The Polar Express,"
"Beowulf" and now "A Christmas Carol").
"When I was doing Beowulf, I realized that (per-
formance capture) is a great form to reintroduce
classic stories in a new way, to a new generation of
moviegoers," Zemeckis said.
"This is because you can create a story that's
visually modern. Many of these stories have great
spectacle in them which makes them difficult to do
visually. So in the case of "Christmas Carol," you get
a chance to realize the story in the very spectacular
and real way that Dickens wrote it."
The process itself is long and tedious, but ulti-
mately produces the results Zemeckis wants.
"You walk the actors through performance cap-
ture very thoroughly and very extensively, and you
explain as much as you can. No matter how I explain
to them what the experience is going to be like, it's
impossible to imagine until they do it," he said.
The technical aspect of performance capture does
put additional responsibility on the actors as well.
"The thing that weirds them out the most is hav-
ing to put the leotard on," he said.
"Performance capture is like doing black-box
theater, where you have minimal props, no sets, no
lighting, no costume. The actors immediately fall

in love with it because thiey understand that it's all
about performance."
Of these actors, Jim Carrey was cast as Ebenezer
Scrooge as well as the Ghost of Christmas Past, Pres-
ent and Future. Though the decision to cast Carrey
in several roles may appear to be the result of con-
venience rather than deliberate intent, the reasons
for this are primarily psychological: Zemeckis says
that since Scrooge's visions are the result of inter-
nal fears, it is only natural that the apparitions that
haunt him be extensions of his alter ego.
According to Zemeckis, Disney's newest render-
ing of "A Christmas Carol" will be carried by both
Carrey's sense of humor as well as his sharp sense
of improvisation.
Zemeckis also wishes to educate the public on the
lesser known aspects of "Carol" with his rendition of
the classic tale. Viewers who were treated to a sneak
preview of the film walked away remarking they
Bringing 'A Christmas
Carol' to the big screen.
had never realized certain aspects of the film's plot
existed in Dickens's original creation. Though Zem-
eckis's love of the surreal and the fantastic may be
implied by his involvement in films like "Beowulf"
and this most recent undertaking, his passions for
them are obvious:
"I want people to realize that this is one of the
greatest stories ever written."
Zemeckis believes his rendering of "A Christmas
Carol" will pay homage to Dickens's work by inter-
preting the author's voice through a medium that
was unavailable in Dickens's time - namely the lens
of 3-D cinema. Here's hoping that we aren't wrong
for believing in his artistic vision.
"A Christmas Carol" opens in theaters today.

COURTESY OF TRAVELCHANNEL
I will dissect you with these chopsticks.
Ba.,d-ass Bourdain

Travel Channel
star to speak at the
Michigan Theater
By DAVID WATNICK
Managing Arts Editor
"We should be opening up
McDonald's

and KFCs along
the Pakistan-
Afghan border."
Nobody ever
asked Anthony
Bourdain to
pitch a viable
peace-in-the-
Middle-East
policy, but that
would never

An Evening
with Anthony
Bourdain
Tomorrow
at8 p.m
At the Michigan
Tickets
starting at $45

Vampires, tweens and Thom

By JASMINE ZHU
Daily Arts Writer
When I first heard that Griz-
zly Bear, St. Vincent and Bon Iver
would be featured on the "Twi-
light: New Moon" soundtrack, I
didn't exactly jump up and down
with joy. Quite the opposite, in
fact. My first instinct was to call
up every plaid-clad hipster I knew
and bitch about the fact that pre-
pubescent girls across America
would now be able to count Thom
Yorke among their favorite artists.
I know, I know - I'm a snob,
right? But the idea of "Twilight"
fans sporting "I Heart Edward
Cullen" T-shirts while grooving
along to Editors did unsettling
things to my stomach.
It's fair to say that good movies
should have good soundtracks. It's
a mutually beneficial relationship
that has worked to enhance many
films ("The Graduate," "Manhat-
tan" and "The Virgin Suicides," to
name a few). But does "Twilight,"
which could shape up to be one of
the worst movie franchises in the
past decade, deserve to be plugged
by such an amazing list of artists?
I cringe when I imagine Beach
House's Victoria Legrand's
unearthly voice providing a back-
drop to Bella Swan swooning in
Edward Cullen's arms, offering
atmosphere for a film that doesn't
deserve it. It seems outrageous
- criminal, even. The relation-
ship between the franchise and its
new soundtrack seems parasitic.
It's like Edward Cullen is liter-
ally leeching off Thom Yorke's
lifeblood while I watch on in a
helpless fury.
Then I realized something very
important: I am being overdra-
matic.
As much as I love to hate on
the "Twilight" franchise and all
it represents - cultish adoration
of vapid young Hollywood celeb-

rities,i
vicariot
and in
obsesse
ters -
conglo
indie a
nized 1
tageou
For.
ten toc
Consei
bands1
obscur
isn't
straits,
the abi
base of;
with
mucha

v
ne
s

middle-aged women living all its emphasis on brooding teen
usly through trashy fiction angst and exaggerated, height-
mpressionable young girls ened passion).
ed with imaginary charac- The soundtrack even features a
it occurred to me that the song by The Killers that I actually
meration of all my favorite enjoy. While I typically can't stand,
irtists under such a recog- Brandon Flowers's empty gran-
brand could only be advan- deur and pomposity, "A White
s. Demon Love Song" highlights his
one, most of the artists I lis- signature drawl while remaining
don't make a lot of money. wonderfully understated (in spite
quently, a lot of my favorite of its colorful title).
have long since faded into But most importantly, the
ity. Granted, Thom Yorke soundtrack gives a lot of people
exactly in dire financial the opportunity to listen to bands
but with "Twilight" having they would probably never lis-
lity to broaden the audience ten to otherwise. I'm also pretty
anything remotely involved excited, because I feel like this
the franchise, it's pretty will allow a lot of people to escape
assured that I'll be able to from the ghastly world of Eva-
nescence and Fall Out Boy. While
I might sound like an asshole, I
truly believe these people will
W h by is good be helped. By dishing up some
J of indie rock's best in one conve-
ausic on the nient serving, the "New Moon"
soundtrack ensures that there
v Twiight will be a cloaked herd of appre-
ciative new listeners. And wide-
oundtrack? spread appreciation of good music
is never a bad thing.
A final confession: I actually
like "Twilight." Up until now,
o Sea Wolf for at least a few I've enjoyed watching it in a rela-
ears to come. The massive tively comfortable secrecy, the
r of "Twilight" fans in exis- way someone trying to quit smok-
practically guarantees this ing might indulge in a cigarette.
ks, Stephenie Meyer! I'd always considered it a secret
hout the "Twilight" fran- source of shame. While I don't
a lot of great new songs own any "Twilight" merchan-
not have come into exis- dise (yet) and haven't committed
Some truly remarkable myself to turning up at the mid-
recorded specifically for the night showing of "New Moon"
ave come out of the "Twi- (so far, anyway), as it turns out,
partnership. "Slow Life" by "Twilight" is a habit I just can't
y Bear, featuring Victoria quit. And now that one of my
id, is one of the best songs favorite guilty pleasures is linked
eard in a long, long time. to some very credible artists, I can
id and Edward Droste's breathe easy with the knowledge
meld together to create a that there are probably people out
ny that is both haunting there listening to the "New Moon"
artbreaking (which I guess soundtrack through their head-
sense for "Twilight," with phones.

stop him from expressing his views
on the matter. Only half-joking, he
believes that fast food is America's
"most destructive export" and
should be used by the CIA to com-
bat insurgents. As he puts it: "Fat-
ten those fuckers up!"
Bourdain is outspoken and
abrasive - he seems to believe bad
tastes can make someone a bad
person. Still, he's often brilliant
and he knows how to eat, travel
and entertain.,AT4, tomorrow,
night at the Michigan Theater, his
firestorm of anecdotes, opinions
and insults is sure to illicit as many
uncomfortable'uighs=astit ds-
genuine ones.
When he's not brainstorming
Trojan-horse strategies for infect-
ing remote war zones with diabe-
tes, Bourdain spends most of his
time filming "No Reservations,"
the wildly popular Travel Channel
show that follows him as he travels
the world sampling local cuisine.

A longtime New York City chef,
Bourdain was able to parlay the
success of his book "Kitchen Con-
fidential" into his own show, "A
Cook's Tour," which ran from 2001
to 2002 on Food Network. In 2005
he jumped to the Travel Channel,
taking his format and attitude with
him.
Bourdain, who just returned
from filming anepisode in Ecuador,
has a TV career that has taken him
to dozens of countries across six
continents. But only a decade ago,
coming off "Kitchen Confidential,"
he was thoroughly unconvinced of
the plausibility of his small-screen
prospects.
"Two fairly unimpressive guys
walked in the door at my restaurant
- I was still working at the time -
and they said they wanted to make
television," Bourdain recalls.
"A week later they summoned
me to a meeting at Food Network,
which I did not think was going to
go that well, frankly. I remember I
didn't even bother to shave for the
meetings. I thought: 'This ain't
gonna happen,'"
But Food Network saw some-
thing compelling in the brash (and
scruffy) Bourdain and decided
he'd be TV's ideal culinary anti-
hero. Having had rather limited
international travel experience'
up to that point, the straightfor-
wa'rd chef was ready to trot the
Sghbe: At the topl of-his degirhd-
destinations list was Vietnam.
"I grew up reading about it ...
it was a place that I wanted to be.
And, in fact, it turned out even bet-
ter."
He's now been to Vietnam mul-
tiple times, and he can't resist
gushing about it. Still, he main-
tains a keen eye for historical

perspective that's illustrative of
his ability to immerse himself in
a far-off location.
"Total war is a business for
them. They understand there's no
halfway war. You invade Vietnam,
they stop farming and they start
killing. As soon as the war's over
it's 'Have a drink. Nothing per-
sonal. This is business, this is what
we do,"' Bourdain said, explaining
why Americans are now received
so hospitably in Vietnam.
"They like Americans. Even
when they were shooting at us I
think they liked us. They saw us
big, goofy, open-hearted people
who like dogs and children."
Though his career may often
seem like one extended all-
expenses-paid vacation, Bourdain
takes immense pride in his work's
mission. In one famous instance,
the Marines evacuated him from
Beiruit when the 2006 war in
Lebanon broke out.
Of course, the experience left
him with an insatiable resolve
to return to the city - a duty he
intends to fulfill for the upcoming
season of "No Reservations."
"We're gonna try to finish the
show we started. It's the great
unfinished business of my life that
we didn't get to show people how
cool Beirut is," he reasons.
Although a tight touring sched-
ule will prevent Bourdain from
appreciating mainstay Ann Arbor
eateries like BTB and Le Dog, he
recognizes another great cultural
contribution of Ann Arbor: The
Stooges.
Bourdain cites The Stooges'
Fun House as his favorite album,
and if he and Iggy Pop have one
thing in common, it's definitely
their lust for life.

listen t
more y
numbe
tenceI
- than
With
chise,
might
tence.
songs,:
film, h
light" I
Grizzly
Legran
I've he
Legran
voices
harmo
and he
makes

ARTS IN BRIEF

GAMING TOURNAMENT
Good football inAnnArbor
"NCAA Football 2010" tournament
1 p.m. at Palmer Field
Free entry
Sports video games are often a common source of
trash talk between players, but fans of the "NCAA
Football" video game series can get a chance to
prove their mettle in person when the EA Sports
NCAA Football Challenge Tour comes to Palmer
Field today.
The event is sponsored by Sony and EA Sports and
presented by Best Buy, and has toured college cam-
puses since early October. According to Jay Kenne-
dy, the EA spokesperson for the event, it will feature
20 open PlayStation 3 kiosks featuring LCD screens
on which the public can try out "NCAA Football
2010." The event also features several giveaways.
Players can also register to participate in the
NCAA Football Challenge, which pits students
against each other in an "NCAA Football 2010"
tournament. The tournament follows a single-elim-

ination structure, whittling down the competition
until one winner stands above the rest.
The University of Michigan champion will earn
a trip for two to Pasadena, Calif. for the Rose Bowl
and later compete against the finalists from the 13
other schools involved in this year's challenge. Also
going to the winner will be a PlayStation Portable,
which could be worth more to a die-hard Wolverine
than the Rose Bowl trip.
"We have a custom, laser-etched Michigan PSP,"
Kennedy said. "It's the only one on the planet."
The one-of-a-kind PSP is maize and blue and
sports a block 'M' on the back along with the official
NCAA logo.
The winner of the final tournament earns a
$10,000 prize. According to Kennedy, the competi-
tion in Pasadena should be fierce.
"We've got great winners from each of the cam-
puses we've been to so far," he said.
Registration starts at noon, and the tournament
begins at 1 p.m. There is a limited number of spots
available, and team selection is on a first-come, first-
served basis. Anyone wanting to represent the Wol-
verines this year should be sure to get there early.
JAMIE BLOCK and ERIC CHIU


6- Friday, November 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOR SALE
1 BDRM CONDO, 67 K, Packard Rd,-
clean, quiet, new appliances. Email:
Lskrdla@hotmail.com
PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, nearB and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
FOR RENT
! 2 BLOCKS to Diag, 441 Hamilton !
$100,000 Renovation complete,
6 bdrm, study & 3 bathrooms! Sept '10
12 mo. lease. $3400/mo. includes dry.,
farn., A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.

the bil
ed and 
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300



4 ELEVEN LOFTS Parents Week- www.annarborapartments.netj
end Nov 5-8: Thar coffee hour 3-5p, 1
Fri open house & food tastng 3-8p, Sat 1CORNER HOUSE APTS Ill 2 & 3
potgamneparty 3-7 Sun brunch I rslt o as- pcRa cen
p. Sap in, enjoy free suff, see U-Ms bdrms lts of clse space, flat screen
best housing. 2 blocks from Central tvs, modern furniture & much more!
Campus. Leasing now for 2010 - beau- 741-9300 annarborapartments.net
tiful furnished lofts, tons of amenities,,, 6-BDRM 2 Batb Calanial an
great views. Reserve now, lock in best n.~ ,2 h n
rate. 734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com CENTRAL CAMPUS (1143 S.Forest
Ave.). 5 m.in walk to college with 2 Re-
CENTRAL CAMPUS! frigeratrs/Microwave/Toaster/Sink/
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES Free laundary/Private deck/Ample park-
Updated beautifully furnished ing. (MAY 2010)-Call (734) 578-4625.
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010 !!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Avail.
(734) 972-7368 on Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free prkg,
www.HorvathProperties.com Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES 1! !!AWESOME 4 bdrm near B-school.
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo Free prkg. Indry. Avail. Fall '10.
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep 734.223.7777.
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370 * NOW LEASING FOR 2010 a
nancylatg//umich.edu, www.carlsonproperties.com
www.nancylat.com 734-332-6000.
N! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
!! AAILBLEFALL201 !! ***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
713 Church- 3 bedroom house M ardwBdMlTrsflln i. -
Across from East Quad- near B School May. Hardwaad ftnars, fatly famshed,
2 kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, lan- washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www annarbarparttens.net
dry, on site parking, furnished, no pets, wa
no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-1244 naCARRIAGE HOUSE** NEXT
r cimgtlcgyah .cam to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
www.cbrchstreetrentals.cbaths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!! emnfirnmitute & private balcony. 741-
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments 9300 www.annarborapartments.net
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga- **FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
Ire, farnished/unfumished., Indry, free WITH EVPRY NEW TOUR.' Stadln,
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734- 1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
320 1244 or cimgtlc(cyahoo.com views could be yours - secure your
www.churcltstreetrentals.com apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info@u-twes.com
S4 BI)RM hanse. May '10. Mary Cl.
IM bldg. Prkg. $2290. 845-399-9904. 2,BED/2 BATH bi-level: 515 Walnut
- huge apts. great for 4, large living
rooms, new kitchens
Mny 2010 *3-Bedrooms: 1506 Geddes - Spa-
ciHas apo s clse to CCLitle and CCRB
Houses Available *3 or 4-Bedroom: 1346 Geddes ALL
utiities included: heat, water, electric-
1129 White St. $3400 ity, cable, wireless Inte4et
Bed. a 4-Bedroom i-Levels: 543 Chrh
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600 Best location, new kitchens
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3600 *5-Bedroom: 539 Packard - Hard-
6 Be. 82 Pacard 3600 wad for, new furnitre
4 Bed. 505 Souer Ct. $2340 *All include heat, water, furnish-
4 ings. Call Varsity Management for an
appointment (734) 668-1100
CAPPO/DEINC0 www. mnagemenom
* 7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
RELEASE DATE- Friday, November 6, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 "Ambient 1: 39 Web site that 52 Legendary
1 Alaska's state Music for users can edit Broncos.
gem Airprts 40 Fcs intently qarterack
5 Sonora natives composer Brian on) 56 Helper
10 Soup du __ 5 Game room 41 Large ocean 58 Japanese martial
14 Shepard in space 6 Prefix with predator art
15 Designer -syncratic 45 Silks wearer 59 Paparazzi prey
Simpson 7 Military physician 46 Fast asleep 61 Savings
16 Biblical 8 African country 48 In the thick of vehicle for
preposition on the Med. Sea 49 Verminophobe's later yrs.
17 Nursery rhyme 9 Unders nt lernd 2 Cyclades island
dish? in "Tis bt thy an Splendid 3 ...-ptch
19 Island garlands name that is my 51 TV host Gibbons softball
20 Uncanny ability, enemy" speaker
for short 11 Interminably ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Blond Wells race 12 Erie Canalcity " A M " I P E R A T A M
22 Pained reaction 13 Griertof the 9 N A O P E R T A
23 ToasterSwirlz FersemeB U YPEAR IEA E
brand Fursme MY SARESEALED
25Time islfleeting" 18Think highlyof L E M M E T A T T L E
philosophy? 22 Identity question I M A L L E A R S T A I L
28Tumblersand 24SingerStefani R E P a a E P E T I T E S
tongs, e.g. 26 Bordeaux wine S U I T O R
31 Booty 27 Drink excessively S R D S E S C A P E M E
32 neath 28 Purchases
33BStoke 2 RomanceA R W A Y I R A
35 One of a cup's novelist Seton A N D SO B I ON I C
48:Abbr. 30 Bounces back ERIK N O C O M M E N T
38Reasens? 34Farmtemale T E S L AS L A ROGE
420ai-Ci-.: 3a Camenalutn p S I L E N C E I 5 0 0 L D E N
Madame Butterfly 36 On itsnway A A R O
43 Actress Skye 37 Awareness-
44 Three-time pairs raising TV spots, T A D A B N E R E T H E R
skating gold for short xwordeditor@aoa.com 11/06/09
medalist Rodnina a a u 4 s es a a t10 11 1 121
45 Gag
47 Reaganomics 14 1s 16
principle
49 "Good grief? n7 i*1
53 "Justthe
facts,__z
4 Psture-perfect 3 24 23 26 27
5h Brewt milk
57 Garbfor 23 230 31
dreamers, briefly
60 Really smell 2 a3s 34 3as a 37
1 1999
Kidman/Cruise m 39 3 41
flm? e 4 44
64 Pencil puzzle
65 Pothole sites 44s 4 4 4
66 Mother of Pollux
67 Sittight 49 5 51 6 a
68 Up to now
69 Sign thal 4 5 8m 34 3
smething has 01 32
tumed?

DOWN 841 BS . 88
1 Wisecrack 7 3 3s
2 Heidi'shome
3 Well-groomed By Sharon E. Petersen 11106/08
guy (c)209 Tribune Media Services, Inc.1

15 DIFFERENT
LOCATIONSI
CHOOSE FROM EWICEN-
CIES, 1,2, AND 3 BED-
ROOMS, 8l-LEVELS AND
TRI-LEVELS TOO'
Call today for an appointment
and visit our webste
734-71-8000
www.primesh.com
*VARSITY MANAGEMENT
HOUSES*: 1109 S. State and 920
Dewey, both 5 bedrooms, finished attic
and basements, great for up to 7 pea-
ple! (734) 668-1100.
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
Studio & 1
Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
73466153
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic'
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations.1.118 Cbrch, .1020-
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.comT r call (734)260-
7215. ,a.ae a,,
3 AND 4 BR Units, Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free utit & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AY
R E A L T Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New)
716 Arch
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
737 Packard

810 Sybil
7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
325 E. Jefferson
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn
12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
rrx ;~ ouse
For details call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 510 Catherine $3700
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 605 E. Hoover $3600
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 509 Sauer ct $2000
4 809 Sybil $2240
4 1117S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modem kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
502 BENJAMIN - 6 Bed/2bath house
on central campus. Great location. Up-
dates being completed. May or Sept '-
10 lease. $3200/month. 734-478-6061
www.hillwoodpn.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr/dryer. No coin laundry, front/
back porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptnergcomcast.net
852 BROOKWOOD - 4 Bedroom
house for rent. Large rooms, kitchen
with dishwasher, parking. Sept '10
Lease - $2300/month. 734-478-6061
www.hillwoodpm.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direct
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call todays Inreserve yur new
howe available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.anaarbrapartments.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. lespecialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
atractively priced,most .noludepatk-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APARTMENTSAVAILABLE 09-10
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
*Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
emailaouisbreskman@yahoo.com
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central camps,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharisllc@comcast.net
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 rg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/ndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc@comcast.net
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + tl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.

AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm 734-564-2125
www.keysnanagement.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com996-4992.
PRESENTS THE
Reital Mlap
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Fnvc r ity
Unwer y
Voted "Best
npartments" 1
Reserve your
fully-furnished room,
studio, 1, 2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 2010/2011.
Save your style!
" Heat & Water Included
" Fitness Center & Pool
"524 Hr. Lobby Attendent
" Secure Entry Building
" Central U-M Campus
" Free Food & More!
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
AVAILABLE NOW OR January 1 or
2 bdrm. on S. Forest near South U. 734-
996-2836.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully fut, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen Must see!$4150 (313)215-8115.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to 20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FALL 2010. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umeampushousing.com
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
8 bdrm houses at 806,Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 bdrm houses at 217 N.
Thayer & 912 Sybil. 1, 2, 3 bdnn apts
on central oampus..T34-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbeglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
OPEN HOUS -
Sunday, November 8, 2009
608 Monroe -Behind S. Quad
1-3 p.m.
Eff., Bi-level I Bdrm. and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 oremail
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
5-7 p.m.
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815outhStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
3-5 p.m.
1, 2,3 Bdm. aps.
Call Phil at 734.662t5270
Can't make the open houses? Please
contact corresponding Mgr. for week-
day appts. 24 hr. prior notice please.
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/nu.September lease. $3390.
734-426-9437.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
myents on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment:
LARGE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,Wshr/Dyr, $950/mo.,
all appliances, water included. Call 734-
395-5288. Pflkianigmail.com

LARGE 4 BEDROOMS, large living
room, large attic, approved for 6, 852
Brookwood. Prkg., porch, wshr./dryer,
no coin laundry, dishwshr., garage.
Basement. 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water mcl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

R E A LT Y
Now Leasing for
2010-2011
Apartments
and Houses
Up to 14~ bedrooms*
nead o P zza 1/ou4S
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-in garage. Cathedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gunnerbl7@aol.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
.Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archreatyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSeltA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 1205 E. Univer-
sity, 6 Irg bdrm. Furn., prkg., 3 full
baths, Irg. common room., idry., dw-
shr., $3795. 248-374-1688.

0

0

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid bigbucks
to stay with your friends for'the w4e4-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
named service rents out houses and
apartments I alumni for football/ban-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.

6
0

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE IN A Movie as a Paid Extra. Learn
how @ a FREE Industry workshop
Wed 11/11 6:30pm @ UM Angell
Hall. RSVP www.JRGalactic.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
SUNDAYS AM HORSE barn help
wanted. Exp. pref. 995-0092.
Classifieds
continued on
the next page,

6
i


The Michigan Daily - michigandailyxom

Friday, November 6, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 6, 2009 - 7A

Senate rejects
legal bid aimed at
Sept. 11 terrorists

GOP pushed effort to
bar Sept.11 terrorists
from prosecution in
federal courts
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Dem-
ocratic-controlled Senate yesterday
turned back a GOP-led effort to bar
Sept. 11 terrorists from being pros-
ecuted in civilian federal courts.
Instead, senators voted 54-45 to
support a request by Defense Secre-
tary Robert Gates and Attorney Gen-
eral Eric Holder to have the option of
prosecuting Sept.11terrorists such as
accused mastermind Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed in either federal courts
or by military commission.
The vote capped an impas-
sioned - and substantive - Senate
debate between those who believe
the Sept. 11 terrorists simply don't
belong in civilian courtrooms and
those who say deciding where to
prosecute them should be left to the
best judgment of the Pentagon and
the Justice Department.
Opponents noted that the gov-
ernment prosecuted 195 terrorists
in civilian courts since the terror-
ist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, with a

91 percent conviction and that only
three terrorists have been tried
before military tribunals.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., led
the drive to require those accused
of plotting the attacks to be tried in
military courts. He said it's wrong
to treat the assaults asa criminal act
instead of an act of war and that Sept.
11 terrorists don't deserve the same
constitutional rights as U.S. citizens.
Supporters of Graham said tri-
als have disclosed intelligence that
proved useful to al-Qaida. The trial of
Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind sheik
convicted of plotting in the 1990s
to blow up New York landmarks,
revealed a list of co-conspirators that
made itsway to Osama bin Laden.
"What happened in the blind
sheik trial?" Graham said. "Because
it was a civilian court built around
tryingcommon criminals, the court
didn't have the protections military
commissions will have to protect
this nation's secrets and classified
inrformation."
Democratic opponents of the idea
said U.S. courts have processed far
more terrorists than military ones
and that the decision of where to
prosecute the terrorists is bestmade
by the Pentagon and Justice depart-
ments working in collaboration.

MIA MARINO/Daily
Friends and family gather at the Ross School of Business yesterday to celebrate the life of Robert Koonce, a beloved academic advisor who died suddenly on Sunday.
Mesko: Koonce changed my life'

From Page 1A
student Zoltan Mesko, the punter
for the Michigan football team,
said that Koonce "changed his life"
and that he simply "owed him too
much."
"He was one of the first people
who took my goal of getting into
the Business School seriously," he
said. "He actually believed in me
and had the vision for me to gradu-
ate from Ross."
Others who spoke at the event
shared similar sentiments.
Business senior Isaiah Mont-
gomery, who serves as vice
president 'for the Black Busi-
ness Undergraduate Society, said
he "relied on Rob for support,
good advice and a great sense of
humor."

Karen Bird, accounting lecturer
at the Business School, said Koonce
wasa"manonamission"whowould
do anything for his students.
"The door would be built, he
would go through, turn around
and invite everyone to come in
and take advantage of all the
opportunities on the other side,"
she said.
To close the celebration, Bob
Dolan, dean of the Business
School, announced that the Rob-
ert Koonce-endowed scholarship
would be established at the Uni-
versity so "we can remember Rob
in the community."
At a reception held afterward,
guests remembered the vivacious
and fun-lovingKoonce. His friends
shared that he was an avid football
fan, extremely proud of his garden

and Koi pond, and loved to bar-
beque. Many people who attended
the event wrote notes and signed
their names in a memory book to
be presented to his wife.
Koonce's neighbor, Jacqueline
Scott, said Koonce "loved people"
and "everybody knew Robert."
"I had no idea that Robert had
touched so many lives until I was
in there today and I listened to the
students and I listened to his col-
leagues speak about him," she said.
"It brought tears to my eyes."
Moore said Koonce was always
making him think, walking into
his office with new ideas for the
University.
"It wasn't his job, he made it his
job. He just cared," Moore said.
Eddie Hall, a student in the Mas-
ter of Accounting program and an

MREACH program coordinator,
said Koonce was a truly unforget-
table person.
"Rob's presence will never be
replaced, but his legacy will live on
in all of us," he said.
Moore said Koonce would be
remembered by his defining quali-
ties, especially his tough love.
"If you want to honor his mem-
ory, you will remember this, you
will remember him kicking your
behind when you needed it, saying
something nice, and then kicking
your behind again," Moore said.
"Eventually you came to realize he
was right and he only did it because
he cared. So honor his memory
and fulfill the unlimited potential
... this is why Rob was here, this
is what we have to do to keep him
alive inus today."


CITY COUNCIL
From Pagel1A
told the Daily on this summer. Now
that the proposal has passed, con-
struction could begin as early as
next year.
Thomas Partridge, a self-
described "Washtenaw County
Democrat," spoke to the council
during the meeting's public hear-
ings.
Partridge discussed the impor-

tance of public transportation for
many area residents, and asked
the council to require CVS to
provide public transportation for
potential customers, especially
those with disabilities or other
disadvantages.
"People with lower incomes
spend an inordinate amount of
income on general merchandise in
CVS stores," Partridge said. "It's
only fair to require the necessary
funding, development and atten-
tion to this vital issue."


Obama promises Native Americans a place
in the White House, on president's agenda

Pres. spoke before
the largest gathering
of tribal leaders in
U.S. history
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama assured Amer-
ican Indians yesterday that they
have a place in his White House
and on his agenda, telling tribal
leaders their marginalized com-
munity deserves more from its
government.
"I get it. I'm on your side,"
Obama told the largest gathering
of tribal leaders in U.S. history.
Obama devoted part of his own
time yesterday and even more ofhis
MENTAL HEALTH
From Page 1A
problems is less clear," Eisenberg
said of the study. "It mostly has
to do with increased likelihood of
seeking help but there may also
be some true increase in mental
health issues in the overall student
population."
Eisenberg said that even though
students appear to be more likely
to seek help when they need it,
there are still students withmental
health problems who are not seek-
ing help.
"It's important to keep both the
trend in mind but also the level
that we're still at," he said.
Another article published in the
July 2007 issue of Medical Care
reported that somewhere between
37 and 84 percent of students at the
University of Michigan who had
positive screens for depression or
anxiety weren't receiving services.
GRANTS
From Page 1A
- when fat collects on the walls of
arteries - in rheumatoid arthri-
tis patients. He plans on using the
grant money to investigate wheth-
er a particular gene that is known
to be associated with rheumatoid
arthritis, is also responsible for
causing arthrosclerosis.
"We've shown that that interac-
tion can indeed explain the asso-
ciation of the genetic marker with
the disease and explain the asso-
ciation with the severity of the dis-

administration's attention toward
renewing relations with American
Indians. He opened a conference
that drew leaders from 386 tribal
nations - the first meeting of its
kind in 15 years - and he ordered
every Cabinet agency to take more
steps toward more cooperation.
The president returned to the
event at the Interior Department
late in the day for closing remarks,
as scheduled, but he altered his
message to address a deadly shoot-
ingrampageattheFort Hood Army
base in Texas. He said his adminis-
tration would get answers to every
question about the incident.
Obama's outreach to tribal lead-
ers amounted to a campaign prom-
ise kept from a president who got
significant support from Native
The findings came from a ran-
dom sampling of 2,785 students.
"Even in an environment with
universal access to free short-term
psychotherapy and basic health
services, most students with
apparent mental disorders did not
receive treatment," the article stat-
ed. "Initiatives to improve access
to mental health care for students
have the potential to produce sub-
stantial benefits in terms of mental
health and related outcomes."
Eisenberg said that while many
students aren't seeking help for
mental health issues, the stigma
associated with mental health dis-
orders is shrinking.
"Today's college students have
less stereotypical attitudes than
students 10 or 20 years ago," he
said. "I think that has to do with
the fact that a lot more students are
receiving services and treatment
before even coming to college so
students know more about it."
Eisenberg's findings are part of
ease," Holoshitz said.
Dr. Matthew Soellner, assistant
professor of medical chemistry in
the College of Pharmacy, received
$1.2 million to create molecules
that impede enzyme activity that
is responsible for the progression
of cancer in patients. These mol-
ecules are aimed at ridding cancer
patients of drug-resistant enzymes
that cause their treatment to be
much more toxic.
EUREKA awarded $1 million to
Dr. H.V. Jagadish, professor of elec-
trical engineering and computersci-
ence. Jagadish plans touse biological
knowledge, obtained through litera-

Americans on his way to the White
House.
It comes as American Indians
remain entrenched in a class-
action lawsuit against the federal
government, claiming the govern-
ment has long swindled them out
of land royalties.
Obama said he didn't blame
tribal leaders for skepticism about
another politician offering hopeful
words. But he said he has no inter-
est in going through the motions of
just holding a summit with them.
The president seemed to con-
nect best when he told his audience
that he was like them: an "outsid-
er" who grew up without a father,
moved around a lot, and under-
stood what it was like to struggle
and be ignored.
an ongoing study at the University
called the Healthy Minds Study,
which aims to understand stigma
barriers along with other topics,
like mental health issues and help-
seeking behavior, according to the
study's website.
HMS was first launched at the
University as a pilot study in 2005
and was later brought to 13 other
universities in 2007 and now fea-
tures 16 schools and counting.
Eisenberg, the study's princi-
ple investigator, said there is a lot
of data available about students
receiving help for mental health
issues, but the information on
those who aren't seeking help is
limited.
"We're trying to understand
more about this," he said. "We're
consistently seeing when you look
at students who appear to have
severe mental health problems the
majority are not receiving services
so we're trying to figure out why
not, what the barriers might be,
ture and databases, to analyze vari-
ous experiments that could enhance
understanding of many diseases,
including diabetes.
EUREKA awarded 56 grants to
researchers across the nation. The
program also handed out an addi-
tional $10.6 million from the Amer-
ican Recovery and Reinvestment
Act to 10 projects. Jeremy Berg,
director of the National Institute of
General Medical Sciences, said in
an interview that there were hun-
dreds of applicants who applied but
did not receive funding.
Berg added that researchers get-
ting EUREKA grants are involved

"You will not be forgotten as
long as I'm in this White House,"
Obama said to a sustained ovation.
Whether that promise results
in action over the next few years
will be the test. In a question-and-
answer session, audience members
pressed Obama for government
help on a litany of matters, from
more respect for sovereignty rights
to environmental cleanup to con-
cerns about offshore drilling.
One leader pleaded with Obama
to find a way to make the federal
commitment lasting, so thatit would
not be at the whim of White House
elections. In the process, the speak-
er predicted Obama would win re-
election, which apparently stuck
with the president as he pledged to
enforce the laws of the land.
etc."
Cepla, who is also a board
member of Finding Voice, a group
on campus that uses art to raise
awareness about mental health
issues, said that though there are
many students with mental health
issues on campus, there is still a
stigma associated with them.
Cepla cited an incident during
Festifall at the beginning of the
semester when a student looking
at a picture of a girl with anorex-
ia said the subject of the draw-
ing should just "eat the damn
cookie."
"When we put on art shows at
the Depression on College Campus
Conference with a lot of teachers
and faculty and researchers there's
very little judgment and everyone
is willing to help out. But at Festi-
fall, for example, very few people
came to talk to us," she said. "I've
witnessed people come over and
look around to see who was watch-
ing them before they came over."
in a variety of innovative projects.
"The research supported by
EUREKA could provide us with
new concepts, tools and approach-
es that have a profound impact on
our understanding of biology," he
wrote in a statement. "From fun-
damental life processes to human
diseases and behavior."
Examplesofgrantrecipientsfrom
outside the University of Michigan
includeDr. Carl Johnson, ofVander-
bilt University, who is studying the
circadian clocks of yeast and single-
celled bacteria to better understand
the sleep cycles of many organisms,
including humans.

SED
Students from Renmin University of China perform at the event yesterday.

CONFUCIUS
From Page 1A
than just the language and culture
resources that characterize many
of the other institutes.
Ken Fischer, president of the
University Musical Society, said
that the music and arts focus mim-
ics similar efforts on campus.
"One of the really special
things about this is that being
the only Confucius Institute that
focuses on Chinese arts and cul-
ture meshes with the interests of
organizations like mine all over
the United States that are per-
forming arts centers at major uni-
versities," Fischer said. "Now that
the University of Michigan has
been identified by the Chinese
government as the place they're
going to be willing to invest in, it
is going to be a real opportunity
for the University."
Though there has been a recent
acceleration in the University's
partnership with China, the rela-
tionship dates back to the 1880s.
"Our relationship with China
goes back so far, to President
(James) Angell," Coleman said.
"There's always been a good rela-
tionship but clearly over the last
decade many other opportunities
have presented themselves."
Lester Monts, senior vice pro-
vost for academic affairs, said he
hopes the Confucius Institute will
help with the growth and further
traveling opportunities for stu-
dents and student groups to get
more immersed in Chinese music
and art culture.
"On the China task force we

made a proposal to create a Con-
fucius Institute that would include
a humanities, music and arts com-
ponent," he said. "We want to start
one of these kinds of orchestras
here and the best way to do that is
to have students from China come
here and have some kind of insti-
tute where theyteach us abouttheir
instruments and music"
In addition to music, the insti-
tute also worked closely with the
University of Michigan Museum of
Art to make it a place to showcase
Chinese art.
"We areso proudtobehostingthe
event," said Interim UMMA Direc-
tor Kathryn Huss. "(The) Museum
of Art has been workingthe past two
years with the Confucius Institute.
We have five Asian galleries that
are dedicated to Asian art and one
for Chinese art. I also know we are
goingto be looking at other facilities
to showcase the art as well."
Following the speeches and
luncheon, Martin Powers, profes-
sor of Chinese arts and cultures,
spoke about the current relation-
ship between China and the Unit-
ed States. He said the creation of
the Confucius Institute, with its
emphasis on art, will help to create
an appreciation for the differences
of the two cultures.
The event was private and the
attendees included all members of
the China task force, people affili-
ated with the museum, leaders at
Renmin University and major Uni-
versity donors who showed interest
in China.
The day's celebrations concluded
with a concert of Chinese music
held at Rackham Auditorium last
night.


8A - Friday, November 6, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Top lines key
as No. 1 Miami
visits Michigan

With Beilein's past in mind,
'M' takes Warriors seriously

Forwards will need
to play solid defense
to keep Camper,
Wingels in check
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
When No. 4 Michigan (4-2-0,
2-0-0) takes on No. 1 Miami this
weekend, they won't be as con-
cerned with the number in front of
the Red Hawks
name as they are M.m.O
with the nun Miami(OH)-
bers on the back at Michigan
of the jerseys. Matchup
When the Miami 6-1-1;
puck drops, Michigan
eleven and nine 4-2-0
in red will be When:
the focus of Friday 7:35
the Wolver- P.M.
ines defensive Where: Yost
efforts. Juniors Ice Arena
Carter Camper T a
and Tommy TV/Radio:
Wingels lead the Comcast
potent Miami Live Blog:
offensive attack michigandaily.
this season, with com/blogs/
both averaging a the game
point per game.
Michigan
coach Red Berenson said that
shutting them down, along with
their linemate Curtis McKenzie
could make the difference in the
game. It changed the outcome last
year.
In the two games the Wolver-
ines lost last year the duo com-
bined for four points. But when
Miami came to Yost in early Janu-
ary, Camper and Wingels didn't
score a point in two blowout wins
for Michigan.
"They have to worry about Rust
and Hagelin and Caporusso and
Wohlberg and Brown and so on,
just like we have to worry about
their best players," Berenson said.
"I think you'll see them matched
up. Head-to-head our top lines
will play against their top lines."
Shutting down the Red Hawks'

first line, along with the rest of
the 19th ranked scoring offense is
nothing new for the Wolverines.
They gave up just 5 goals to Miami
in just four games last season.
Michigan worked on defensive
zone coverage in practice all week
hoping to recreate the results from
last season.
The defensive zone was the one
area it struggled with last week-
end against Lake Superior State,
allowing 63 shots in two games.
The forwards especially will have
to work harder in their own end
tonight if they want to stop the
Red Hawks.
"We have to make sure the
defensive zone is number one on
our priority list," junior forward
Louie Caporusso said. "Until we
actually get down to business and
bear down in the defensive zone,
not get mesmerized by the puck
and make sure we have our man
and we compete just as hard in our
defensive zone than in the offen-
sive zone, then I think we'll be ok."
The only sure thing heading
into the series is that the intensity
will be at its highest level so far
this season. The Wolverines are
used to physicality after playing
a variety of hard checking teams
like Boston University and Lake
Superior State.
But aggressive play has a side
effect: penalties and the power
play is where Miami's dynamic
duo may have the most success.
If the Wolverines continue to
take almost 17 penalty minutes per
ganme, the Red Hswks' extra-man
attack will havesa chsnce to repeat
their performance last weekend,
in which they scored four out of
the team's six goals.
"There's going to be players try-
ing to win races and win battles
and so there is going to be penal-
ties that are going to be acciden-
tal," Berenson said. "But if you get
into a penalty filled game, I don't
know who's got the advantage.
Their power play could be better
than ours and it will be a real test
for our goal keeping and our pen-
alty killing if their power play gets
to be a factor."

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sp"rt" Writer
When Division II Le Moyne
College beat No. 25 Syracuse on
Tuesday, Michigan men's basket-
ball coach John Beilein estimates
he received 10-15
text messages the Wayne State
next day.
"Finally, Le at Michigan
Moyne has a good Matchup:
coach," one of Wayne St0-0;
them read. Michigan 0-0
The reason When:
for the influx of Friday 7 P.M.
texts is the same Where:
reason Michigan Crisler Arena
fans don't need to
shu VRadio:
worry about the BTN
Wolverines over-
looking Wayne Live Tweets:
State, their own @amichdaily
Division II oppo- sports
nent, for tonight's
exhibition game.
Beilein coached at Le Moyne for
nine years, and he knows exactly
how good Division II teams can be.
"These guys can play, too," he said.
Michigan knows it can't take any
opponent lightly, especially when
the Wolverines' leading scorer is
not at full strength. Junior Manny
Harris is still limited in practice by
a nagging hamstring injury.
Beilein is looking to see who steps
up tonight with Harris not at full
strength.
"Manny can't go 100 percent, so
who's the guy who gives us some
of what Manny does?" Beilein said.
"We need to have a backup plan."
Regardless of the injury, Beilein

plans on shuffling the lineup, which
is still far from set. The most obvi-
ous battle will be for the point guard
position.
The leadingcontenders right now
are sophomore Stu Douglass, red-
shirt sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry
and freshman Darius Morris.
Morris is perceived to be the pur-
est point guard of the three, since
it's the position he played through
high school. And despite having
never before played at this level, he
has impressed his teammates.
"He works hard and he picks up on
things real quick," Harris said. "He's
a good passer, and he can score."
In the paint, the Wolverines plan
on sticking with redshirt junior
Anthony Wright, redshirt senior
Zack Gibson and DeShawn Sims.
However, Beilein wants to try
to work in redshirt freshman Ben
Cronin, who is coming off a hip
injury from last season.
"We think he might be a gamer,"
Beilein said. "A guy who's good in
practice but just seems to have a
feel in games and knows how to get
things done."
Not only will fans get to see Mor-
ris and a healthy Cronin for the first
time, they will also get their first
look at freshman shooting guard
Matt Vogrich, last year's Illinois
Gatorade Player of the Year.
The main purpose of tomorrow's
game is to see how much the fresh-
men have developed.
"It's a game, you're going to go out
there and compete to win," Novak
said. "But it's also good to just go out
and get your feet wet, especially for
the freshmen."

0

0

0

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Michigan coach John Beilein coached Division II Le Moyne 17 years ago.

With changing role, Bower stays fresh for Blue

When your boss is.after your fiancee,
some scheming is in store!

Thro
three-a
Arbor,r
leyball1
ing toN
her por
heighta
ButI
stant w
spectru
ers: her
Whe
pus int
olis, In
the role
- it wa
her from
"She
Rosen
looking
saying,
the rig
pete wi
compet
compet
going tc
court."
Surp
Bower1
But the
tion wa
nary f
WhenB
she pla
ball CLu
the tea:
felter, s
a defen
Rose
team g
from it
- diggi
ting cle
ing a ha
So, w
floor in

By MARK BURNS in the back row.
Daily Sports Writer Itwasn't the position shehad been
recruited to play, but it didn't mat-
ughout Megan Bower's ter. Still a teenager, Bower matured
nd-a-half year tenure in Ann very quickly in her newfound role at
multiples aspects of her vol- Michigan, leading the team in digs
game have changed, accord- her freshman season.
Michigan coach Mark Rosen: Within a year of donning the
sition on the floor, jumping maize-and-blue, Bower's unique
and leadership role. personality, as Rosen described,
Rosen says there's one con- began to slowly emerge on the
hich places Bower in another court and in the weight room. She'd
sm compared to other play- soon become a household name as
-authenticity. a player who'd bring 'it' day-in and
n Bower first arrivedon cam- day-out.
he fall of 2006, the Indianap- "Sometimes you see a lot people
d. native thought she'd play trying to figure out who they are at
of a hitter on the hardwood this age," Rosen said. "And I think
s the reason Rosen recruited Megan has a very good understand-
m Cathedral Prep. ing of who she is and what her
's very, very opportunistic," values are. When I see a kid like'
said. "I think when she was that, the best way describe them is
at joining our team, she was authentic."
'I think I can compete with ROLE WITH IT
ht side. I can maybe com- Call Bower "Gumby."
th the left side. But if I don't After her freshman year in which
e with them, I'm going to she placed loth in the Big Ten with
e with the libero.' She was 3.74 digs per game, Rosen switched
o find somie way to get on the Bower to the defensive specialist
position. Usually, the defensive spe-
risingly, that's exactly where cialist plays fewer rotations than a
played her freshman season. libero, but is still regarded as one of
switch to the defensive posi- the better passers on the floor.
s nothing too out of the ordi- Towards the end of her sopho-
or the now-senior captain. more year, Rosen then saw fit to
lowerwasstill in high school, place Bower on the outside, and so
yed for the Muciana Volley- she started the final 15 matches as
b in Muncie, Ind. Rosen said the Wolverines' right side hitter, a
m, coached by Mike Lingen- role she quickly grew comfortable

0
6
I
0

. The Marriage of
F arofdgn-
Music, Thcatre & Dance
By Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Lorenzo da Ponte
Sung in Italian with projected English translations
University Opera Theatre directed by Robert Swedberg
University Symphony Orch. conducted by Kenneth Kiesler
Nov. 12 at 7:30 PM - Nov. 13 & 14 at 8 PM Nov. 15 at 2 PM
Power Center - Tickets $24 and $18 - Students $9 with ID
League Ticket Office - 734-764-2538

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Megan Bower has 147 kills and 257 digs so far on the season.

,as especially geared toward
sive style of volleyball.
n said that Lingenfelter's
enerated a lot of its offense
s defensive work on the floor
ing balls - or at the net get-
aan solid blocks and by plac-
and or two on potential kills.
ehen Bower stepped onto the
her first season as the Wol-

in.
"Her actual physical play has
evolved over her career," Rosen
said. "She came in as a back row
player (from her club team), worked
into the libero role, but she had her
sights set on playing the front row."
And following the summer
between her sophomore and junior
year, during which she increased
her jump from 9-feet 9-inches to a

clean 10-feet, Bower saw herself on
the right side permanently - where
she always knew she belonged.
"My role on the team has changed
every year, and that keeps things
fresh," Bower said.
WEARING THE'C'
There comes a certain level of
responsibility, expectation and com-
mitment to wear the 'C' on any col-
legiate, junior or professional team.
Bower welcomed that role fol-
lowing her junior season.
With the departure of seniors
Beth Karpiak and Kerry Hance,
there was a leadership void on the
team, and an ample opportunity for
Bower to step-in.
"This year she has evolved a lotas
a leader," Rosen said. "She's more of
a vocal and lead by example player
within the program. Her personal-
ity is very unique, and she's some-
body who is very competitive and
isn't afraid to speak her mind. She's
not afraid tobe a vocal leader, which
is the hardest type of leadership."
And the well-spoken Bower has
definitely needed to voice herself
this season. After the Wolverines
jumped out to a 12-1 mark, the team
endured a tough 2-4 stretch in the
Big Ten. It needed someone to reas-
sure them of where it was headed
and where it wanted to finish at the
end of the season: in Tampa Bay at
the Final Four.
"I try to take onthe role that when
the going gets tough, who's going to
stop it and getthis team back on the
same page," Bower said.
PASSION
There's the old adage: A picture is
worth a thousand words.
But according to Bower's room-
mate, senior Veronica Rood, a

candid picture in the Michigan vol-
leyball squad's team room says only
one: passion.
It's a portrait of Bower pumping
both fists and screaming at the top
of her lungs after the Wolverines'
come-from-behind five-set thriller
over Kentucky in last year's first
round of the NCAA Tournament.
"Megan is a really easy person
to feed off of with her energy and
her enthusiasm on the court," Rood
said.
The two players have been prac-
tically inseparable since they first
stepped on campus three years
ago. They've lived together in vari-
ous apartments and houses, shared
countless hours of study time at the
Stephen M. Ross Academic Center
and been on road trips across the
Midwest.
But through the wins and losses,
Bower's passion for Michigan and
the sport of volleyball has never
dwindled.
At the end of the season, Bower
plans to start coaching Mark and
Leisa Rosen's new club volleyball
program, A2 - more specifically,
the Under-16 team. With the new
coaching gig, she'll have the perfect
opportunity to pass her passion and
love for the game onto a younger
group of girls.
But for now, hopefully some of
Bower's fervor can rub off on her
teammates as the conference slate
winds down and the Wolverines
look to make some noise in the
NCAA Tournament.
And next year, there might be a
new picture of an already-graduated
Bower hanging in the Wolverine
teamroom,withatwo-word descrip-
tion instead of one: TampaBay.

a


o 0 0m0

i

SENIgS:
IsOn't $Fgen!
TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT
and be pictured in the Michiganensian Yearbook
Monday Nov. 9- Thursday Nov.12
l0am - Snm
Bring this coupon with you and get
$2 OFF your Sitting Fee!!!
I C C -1 J e 1,S T
Schedule your portrait online:
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
Location: Sophia B. Jones Room, Union

Keith Smith,junior wide receiver
Most embarrassing moment: I was at a school function in high
school and we were walking. And in the middle of it, I tripped and
fell all the way down.
Non-sports item you can't live without: My phone.
Pre-game meal or ritual: I always chew gum, I always chew
Stride. It's one of the relaxing factors.
If you could have a superpower, what would it be: Telekinesis.
Hidden talent: I can play the saxophone. I really like Kenny G.
* Biggest fear: Losing my family.
Favorite sports rivalry: Duke vs. North Carolina.
, Where would we find you on campus: In the classroom or on
the football field.
Favorite class: Forensics.
Who do you want to join the Big Ten team, if they added a
12th team: Ball State has shown a lot.
BCS or playoff: I would like the playoff system. It would bring a
new factor, and you would be able to work your way up.
Favorite sports team: Dallas Cowboys. I grew up a quarter-
back, so I was a Troy Aikman fan. He was always on target. ... He
was hardnosed, I always idolized him.
Three words to describe your coach: Energetic, charismatic,
intense.
* If you could watch one movie for the rest of your life, what
would it be: "White Chicks.

*A2S FINEST&aFASTST SINCE 193 r
T-SHIRT PRINTERY
-Expert Screenprinting
a M Embroidery M :
TEES, SWEATS, SHORTS
CAPS, TOTESAPRONS
Multi-Coloor We Turn
Printn g Your Sketch
Our Speciality Into T-Shirt Art
EMAILDESIGNFOR PROMPTQUOTE
4CATALOGUE, &EMAIL LINK AT
6 MIN. FROM CAMPUJS
1002 PONTIAC TR. 99-1367

Want live
updates
from the
game?
Follow us on
Twitter.
@michdailysports




I "S +

w

0

0

FORCIER From page 5B

REACHING THE
V STRETCH
You're about to see a very underwhelming team that
has one marquee win over a high-profile Midwestern
opponent and one crippling loss to a terrible team from
the state of Illinois.
That's Michigan, right?
Well, the Purdue Boilermakers are in the same boat,
snatching a season-saving win against Ohio State after
losing to Northern Illinois earlier this year. And both teams
need a win Saturday to salvage a disappointing '09.
Michael Eisenstein " Ruth Lincoln
Courtney Ratkowiak a Andy Reid
HIGHLIGHTS
Last year's Boilermaker matchup was painful, but
the Wolverines' woes in that game look similar to
now. Here's why it's time for Michigan to play with
desperation if it wants to turn its season around.
Tate Forcier is an athlete, a goofball, a little brother and
4 student of the game of football -and after growing
up in a family of athletes, he just happened to wind up at
his dream school.
It's best to know the enemy, right? Read about
members of the opposing team in our weekly Q&A
feature. Up this week is Boilermaker junior wide
receiver Keith Smith.

2009 MICHIGAN FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 5 vs. Western Michigan: Before this win, it had been a while since
Michigan fans had anything to cheer about during opening weekend.
Sept.12 vs. Notre Dame: Hey, Chuck Weis, how about winning a
rivalry game this weekend? It'd be a new feeling this season.
Sept.19 vs. Eastern Michigan: The Eagles put up a good fight in the first half, but
'a. ,. Michigan again proved there's only room for one football team in Washtenaw County.
Sept. 26 vs. Indiana: Wait, what? Indiana still has a football team? We'll believe it when
we see it. And we didn't see it this year.
Oct. 3 at Michigan State: So the Spartans beat Michigan for the second year
in a row. Whatever. Keep Paul Bunyan. That thing is butt-ugly anyway.
Oct.10 at Iowa: Kinnick Stadium would rank as one of the best in the Big Ten -
', if their fans didn't storm the field after a win against an unranked team.

t~L

Oct. 17 vs. Delaware State: As if Michigan students needed more motivation
to skip this game, the Athletic Department scheduled it during Fall Break.
Oct. 24 vs. Penn State: Little-known fact: Joe Paterno is the only active college football
coach who participated in the Revolutionary War. Just kidding. He is really old, though.
Oct. 31 at Illinois: The Fighting Illini showed very few signs of fight in 2009 - that
is, until Michigan made Juice Williams look like a Heisman candidate. Again.
Nov. 7 vs. Purdue: Think the Wolverines still have that hook-and-ladder on their minds?
Expect them to come out swinging with one more win needed for bowl eligibility.
Nov. 14 at Wisconsin: It's still a week away, but we can already smell the beer
sold in the student union and, of course, the cheese curds. Oh, Madison.

Nov. 21 vs. Ohio State: The sweater vest -perfect for when your torso is ice cold but
your arms still need to breathe. Seriously, Tressel, what is up with that wardrobe?
UNIVRSIT OF IIGAN

"That's the two years kids
probably need the most super-
vision," he said. "That's when
they can make bad decisions
and stuff. Well, fortunately, he
didn't make any bad decisions,
other than not doing his home-
work."
But Forcier resolved to catch
up, and with a renewed sense of
motivation and a love for foot-
ball, he refocused and chose his
best option - dual-enrolling
at Scripps Ranch High School
and San Diego Charter School,
a home school that allows stu-
dents to have a more custom
schedule.
Forcier took almost double
the required amount of credits
in his first few years there, Mike
said, because he wanted to sur-
pass his schoolmates in order to
possibly graduate early for col-
lege football purposes.
"We just wanted to put Tate
in the best situation possible,"
Jason said. "Especially if you're
good enough to play as a fresh-
man, (enrolling early) is really
your only opportunity. It ben-
efits you that much more, espe-
cially if you're in a QB battle." ,
But graduating early meant
more than just loading up on
classes. In California, high
school seniors are assigned a
large report in December that
they have to present by May,
when they graduate. It involves
a paper about a specific profes-
sion, creating a resume, shadow-
ing jobs, conducting interviews
and spending a lot of extracur-
ricular time to work on it.
"Basically, it's so kids realize,
'You're becoming a young man
now,' " Suzanne said. "You're 18
now, and you're left to do this
thing all on your own."
It takes most kids all semester
to finish the project. But because
Forcier wanted to graduate early
and move on to Michigan - his
self-proclaimed "dream school"
- he worked day and night, fin-
ishing the project in less than
three weeks.
Bet you can guess what Forci-
er's theme was.
"He chose to do his project
on being a professional foot-
ball player," Suzanne said. "He
picked that because that's what
he knew the most about, and
that s what he wanted to be.'
And he had come a long way
from the seventh grader who
was quickly falling behind and
the struggling Catholic school-
boy. His project was so good
that the school kept a copy as
an example for future students.
Although the Forcier family

took some flak for putting their
kid in home school, it's becom-
ing a more and more common
occurrence for many football
recruits around the country,
including Florida poster boy Tim
Tebow.
The home-school route also
allowed Forcier to have a more
flexible schedule. He used the
time to work out with his train-
er, former NFL offensive guard
Marv Marinovich, a man who
Mike said is like a grandfather
to Forcier.
He also used it to take official
and unofficial visits to schools
and build up QBForce.com, all
of which helped him get the
name Tate Forcier out into the
college football world. And that
has been a key to the Forcier
family's success,'Jason said.
"Most recruits don't real-
ize this, but you're your own
product, and you're your own
brand," he said. "Tate Forcier is
his own brand, and his quarter-
backing is the product. If you're
good enough for them to find
you, why not go advertise your-
self a little bit? Pepsi and Coke
still do it, and everyone knows
what Coke is."
It may not have been the most
normal childhood - with the
family of star quarterbacks, the
home school, the self-promot-
ing website - but that hasn't
affected Forcier too much.
"He's just a regular kid," Jason
says with a shrug.
A FACE IN THE CROWD
Even when he was five or six,
Forcier has displayed the swag-
ger that has become synony-
mous with his style of play.
"When we were in Pop War-
ner, he'd say, 'My brother's
going to kick your butt and run
all over you,' and stuff like that,"
Jason said. "But that was just
him being really proud of us."
But behind the confidence -
which Jason carefully explained
is what cocky people fleetingly
attempt to emulate - is a regu-
lar college kid.
He declined to doan interview
for this story, because, accord-
ing to a member of the Ath-
letic Department, he thought
the attention should go to an
upperclassman or "someone
who deserved it more."
When he goes to class, he
pulls a hoodie or a beanie over
his head. Because of his small
stature, he can slip through the
Diag without getting noticed.
He volunteers every Thurs-
day at Motts Children's Hospi-
tal after practice, as do many

Michigan athletes.
And when the scare-tactic
movie "Paranormal Activity," a
surprising hit among the college
crowd, came out, he went with
some friends only to find out
that it was sold out.
"He's not the type to go up to
the manager and say, 'Do you
know who I am? I'm the Michi-
gan quarterback,' or whatever,"
Jason said. "He'll go home and
check another time or make
other plans. He doesn't think
he should be getting special
treatment or anything. He's just

another regular kid."
But for Jason, who over-
shadowed Tate for so long, it's
a humbling experience to see
his brother lead a come-from-
behind drive against Indiana or
be worthy of the lead photo on
ESPN.com.
"It's like, I'm almost in that
position now, where I'm always
happy to gloat about him, pretty
much" said Jason, who lived
with Forcier in Ann Arbor for a
few months before moving back
to California to find a job. "I joke
around with my friends that I'm

like Drama in Entourage. ... I'm
just happy to see him come full
circle."
Now one of the most recog-
nizable names in college foot-
ball, not much has changed for
Tate Forcier since the days he
threw his baby bottle across
the room. It's just that, instead.
of his family being impressed
by his arm, it's a national audi-
ence that is watching him throw
touchdown passes.
After all, he is, and always will
be, a quarterback - as simple
as that.

PHOTOCOURTESY OF SUZANNE FORCIER
Freshman Tate Forcier played football, basketball and baseball as a young child.

Invitation to Submit Comments
The University of Michigan - Ann Arbor (U-M) invites you to be an
active participant in its resiew for re-accreditation by submitting your
comments about the University to the Higher Learning Commission
(HLC) of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools
(NCA), its regional agency for accreditation. TheC k-M has been
accredited by the ILC/NCA since 1913.
On March 15-17, 2010, the U-M will undergo a comprehensive
evaluation visit by a team appointed by the HLC. The team will
review the U-M's ongoing ability to meet the HtIC's criteria for
accreditation and the Uiversity 's special emphasis study on the
toli of internationalization. More information is available at
wsww.accreditation.umicli.edu. The ILC seeks comments that
address substantive matters related to the uality of the t -Mc and its
academic programs.
To submit comments online:
(click on "Fle Third Party Comments")
Or send written comments to:
Public Comment on the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
Ythe Higher LearnimniCommission
30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 2400
Chicago, IL 60602-2504
Youmustprov/deyourti7i17a, address and te/ephone number.
The HL/C doesnottreat cosinentsfrom thepub/icas c /sdentia/l.
A// commentsmustbe receivedbyFebruary1, 2010.

Freshman Tate Forcier has led the Wolverines to late-game coieback wins over Notre Dame an Indiana.


0

0

0

s" " Nove ber 00"

Breakdown: 'M' will squeeze past Purdue

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
and RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editors
MICHIGAN RUSHING OFFENSE
VS. PURDUE DEFENSE
Michigan fans should see
something new this weekend -
a healthy Brandon Minor.
Rodriguez said Wednesday
that the senior tailback has
"done more than he's probably
done in a month, or more." The
Wolverines are a different team
when their most physical back is
in the game. Minor has just 322
net yards this season, but with
five touchdowns, you know he
can get the job done. If Minor is
indeed healthy enough to take
the majority of the carries, he
should take over the game.
Purdue boasts the Big Ten's
ninth-ranked rush defense,
allowing 168.4 yards per game.
Michigan's success really
depends on how the offensive
line can gel this week. Against
Illinois, the 0-line was streaky
against the Big Ten's worst rush
defense. But if the group can
find some rhythm, it should
open things up for Minor and
freshmen quarterbacks Tate
Forcier and Denard Robinson
to break loose.
EDGE: MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN PASSING OFFENSE
VS. PURDUE DEFENSE
It's been four straight games,
and still no touchdowns from
Forcier.
Much of that has been due
to injury, but the freshman
has really tapered off since his
late-game comeback attempt
in East Lansing more than
a month ago. In those four
games without a touchdown
pass, Forcier has a lowly 47.3
completion percentage and is
just 36-for-76.
Purduestands atarespectable.
fourth in the Big Ten in pass
defense, allowing 194.7 yards
per game. David Pender and
Brandon King are no slouches
in the secondary. Pender is
best in the Big Ten with 11 pass
breakups this season, and King
has three interceptions.
The Wolverine receivers
have not impressed during
Michigan's recent losses, with
dropped passes their new
mantra. With slot receiver
Martavious Odoms out
Saturday, it will take a lot to
get Michigan's receivers going.
EDGE: PURDUE

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Senior Brandon Minor has been hampered by injuries this season, but he was able to work more in practice this week than he has in months.

MICHIGAN RUSHING DEFENSE
VS. PURDUE OFFENSE
Let's call this the battle of the
mediocre.
Michigan's rush defense is No.
85 in the country. Purdue's rush
offense isn't much better at No.
73.
That is sort of surprising,
considering how the Wolverines'
front four have emerged as the
strongest unit of the defense. But
big play after big play (not sure
if you've erased Juice Williams
from your memory yet) has
hampered Michigan.
The Boilermakers will likely
rack up a good chunk of change
- unless the Wolverines stick to
their assignments and play solid
gap defense, which sophomore
defensive tackle Mike Martin
said they didn't do against
Illinois.
The best indicator for whether
the run defense is playing well
won't be the average yards per
carry or total yards, but rather
how many over 20-yard carries
Michigan gives up.
The Wolverines can defend
the ground game well, but they
just can't afford to lose the game
on a single play.
EDGE: PUSH
MICHIGAN PASSING DEFENSE
VS. PURDUE OFFENSE
For the Wolverines to win

Saturday, they need to win this
matchup.
Michigan's secondary has
been shredded in recent weeks,
and it was particularly bad in
its last home game against Penn
State, when quarterback Daryll
Clark threw for 230 yards and
four touchdowns.
Since then, the Wolverines
have lost former starting
cornerback Boubacar Cissoko
for a violation of team rules,
while defensive coordinator
Greg Robinson has struggled
to find an effective personnel
combination in the secondary.
The big plays that Michigan
fans have come to expect
against their defense probably
won't disappear against Purdue,
which despite a rough season,
has a very good passing offense.
Against Iowa and Indiana,
the Wolverines gave up a
combined 554 passing yards.
The Boilermaker offense ranks
higher than both of those.
So yes, it's going to be a long
day for the Michigan secondary.
The only saving grace for
the Wolverines? Purdue has
thrown 12 interceptions, the
second-highest total in the Big
Ten. But Michigan hasn't forced
a turnover in three games, so it
will be interesting to see if it can
capitalize on the opportunity.
EDGE: PURDUE

SPECIAL TEAMS
Fifth-year senior Zoltan
Mesko had one of his worst
games of the year punting last
week, but he appears to have
a significant advantage on
Saturday.
Michigan is still the best
punting team in the Big Ten,
while Purdue sits in 10th,
nearly 10 net yards per punt
fewer than the Wolverines.
With both teams averaging
about 20 yards per kickoff
return, punting will likely be
the difference in field position
this weekend.
And if the game comes down
to a field goal, Michigan is
also at an advantage. Purdue
has missed over 30 percent
of its field goals, while fifth-
year senior Jason Olesnavage
is 8-of-9 on the year.
EDGE: MICHIGAN

INTANGIBLES
The Wolverines need this
win. Badly.
It's not a must-win to
become bowl eligible, but
the Wolverines will only
have an uphill battle ahead
at Wisconsin and against
Ohio State if they can't
beat the Boilermakers.
For two weeks now, it's
seemed the bowl-eligibility
factor would play some
motivational role. Instead,
the Wolverines have choked.
This is their best (and some
would argue last) chance to
lock up a postseason game.
That's enough to give them the
advantage.
EDGE: MICHIGAN
SCORE PREDICTION:
MICHIGAN 35, PURDUE 29

It's OKfor Blue
to be desperate
L ast year at this time, Desperation.
Michigan's bowl eligibility Saturday's game is the Wolver-
depended on winning out. ines' last real shot for relevancy in
This year, all it needs to do is the regular season. Yes, I know it's
win one game. against Purdue. And some (most?)
But heading into Saturday's Michigan fans would argue that
game against Purdue, the scene a win against Ohio State in two
sounds too weeks would make up for the rest
much like 2008. of the year. But Michigan needs
That game to salvage this season well before
started like Nov. 21.
this: ' 4 "What's desperate? Not in foot-
Michigan ball terms, I've never, ever used
blows two- y that," Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
touchdown guez said Wednesday. "You want
leads two COURTNEY to have a hungry team, I guess,
separate times. RA'KOWIAK but you want that whether they're
In the third winning or losing. I don't want
quarter, facing them to have some fatalistic view
a critical Purdue third-and-9 at the of this last ballgame or anything.
Michigan 30-yard line, the defense It's in the past. You can't do it over
misses multiple tackles to give the again. Let's worry about this next
Boilermakers the first down. They game."
tie the game four plays later. But that last ballgame - that
And it ended like this: Illinois meltdown - isn't really
"Never in my wildest imagi- in the past. Those defensive woes
nation did I think we'd score 48 have been a recurring problem,
points," then-Purdue coach Joe including in last year's Purdue
Tiller said while examining the game, and repressing those memo-
box score. ries after the team has had what
That, of course, was after Rodriguez calls "24 hours to think
Michigan gave up the winning about the loss" obviously hasn't
touchdown with 26 seconds left worked. On Saturday, the Wol-
in the game, on a hook-and-ladder verines need to have last week's
that left the Wolverines completely 99-yard Illini touchdown drive
baffled. in their heads during every single
Post-halftime collapses, massive play. That series alone should
defensive breakdowns and heart- make them desperate enough to
breaking last-second losses are still come out Saturday and make Pur-
issues 12 months later. That's a let- due bowl-ineligible, just like the
down, considering this team looked Boilermakers did to Michigan last
like it had all the momentum in the year.
world six weeks ago. The Wolverine players are
But now, the Boilermakers must talking more about "playing with
be salivating at the opportunity to heart" now because they have to
face a Michigan team that looks know they can't purely rely on
similar to last year's on paper. technique and talent.
The Wolverines are coming into That much was clear when
this game with the exact same Donovan Warren was asked on
number of Big Ten wins as they Monday about giving offensive
had before the Purdue matchup in players large cushions - a second-
2008 - one - and with a defense ary issue that has drawn the ire of
that is equally bad at preventing fans and the media alike.
big plays. "I'm just doing what's asked of
"It's all about what you got me and playing to the best of my
inside of you to make sure you ability," he answered, before being
work as hard as you can," Brandon asked if he likes press coverage. "I
Graham said Monday. "That's like playing guys press coverage,
just how I'm going to bring it. I'm man-to-man. At the same time,
gonna tell them it's all about your I have to do what's best for my
heart now." team."
Knowing how vulnerable this It was also clear when Rich
year's defense really is, playing Rodriguez was asked Monday if he
with heart alone won't be enough was surprised success hasn't come
to beat Wisconsin or Ohio State. sooner, and he dryly responded,
Against a 3-6 Purdue team, that "Not after I got here."
might work. Illinois is asteam on the outs,
But it needs a different name: See RATKOWIAK, Page 6B

RB

1. Minor, Brandon Senior, No. 4
2. Brown, Carlos Senior, No. 23
1. Moundros, Mark RS junior, No. 44
2. Grady, Kevin Fifth-year senior, No. 24

FB

1.Stonum, Darryl Sophomore, No.22
2.Mathews, Greg Senior, No. 13
W R 1. Hemingway, Junior RS sophomore, No. 21
2. Savoy, LaTerryal Fifth-year senor, No. 82
1.Odoms, Martavious Sophomore No. 7
S 2.Grady, Kelvin RS sophomore, No.19

NIT 1 Marlin, Mike Sophomore, No. 68
NI 2. Campbell, William Freshman, No. 73
O LB 1. Rob, Craig Freshman, No. 88
2. Herron, Brandon RS sophomore, No. 58
M LB 1. Leach, Kevin RS sophomore, No. 52
2 Ezeh, Obi RS junior, No. 45
1. Mouton, Jonas RS junior, No. 8
2Weach, Kevin RS sophomore, No. 52
1. Brown, Stevie Senior, No. 3
2. Simmons, Floyd RS freshman, No. 23
L"C 1. Warren, Donovan Junior, No. 6
2. Turner, J.T. Freshman
iKovacs, Jordan IS freshman, No. 32
SS 2. Van Slyke, Jared RS sophomore
 1. Williams,Mike RS sophomore, No. 40
F 2. Emilien, Vladimir RS freshman, No. 5
RC 1. Woolfolk, Troy Junior, No. 29
2. Floyd, J.T. RS freshman, No. 12

November 7, 2009 -- Footbal Saturday
MICHIGAN DEPTH CHART
VS.
PURDUE

OFFENSE
1. Forcier, Tate Freshman, No. 5
2. Robinson, Denard Freshman, No.16

DE
DT

1. Graham, Brandon Senior, No. 55
2. Heininger, Will RS sophomore, No. 39
1.Van Bergen, Ryan RS sophomore, No. 53
2. Banks, Greg Junior, No. 92

DEFENSE

TE
LT
LG
C
RG
RT

1. Koger, Kevin Sophomore, No. 86
2. Webb, MartellJunior, No.80
1.Ortmann, Mark Fifth-year senior, No. 71
2. Dorrestein, Perry RS iunior, No. 79
1. Scbilling, Steve IS iunior, No. 52
2. Mealer, Elliot IS freshman, No. 57
1. Moosman, David Fifth-year senior, No. 60
2. Kboury, Rocko IS treshman, No. 63
1. Omameh, Patrick Sophomore, No. 65
2. Barnum, Ricky RS freshman, No. 56
1. Huyge, Mark RS sophomore, No. 72
2. Dorrestein, Perry RS junior, No. 79

I

RATKOWIAK
From page 3B
too, and it didn't bother to
hide its desperation last week.
Juice Williams had lost sole
possession of the starting spot.
Ron Zook was the most disap-
pointing coach in the confer-
ence after running a team of
veterans into the ground, and
he readily admitted the week

before facing the Wolverines
that he didn't know what was
wrong with his team.
But that 1-6 squad somehow
found a way to win.
Playing desperate isn't
shameful. At this point, with
the Wolverines badly needing
to seal a bowl game this week-
end, it's necessary.
- Ratkowiak can be reached at
cratkowi@umich.edu.

SPECIAL TEAMS
P

K

KR

1. Olesnavage, Jason R S senior, No. 92 1. Mesko, Zoltan RS senior, No. 41 1. Stonum, Darryl Sophomore, No. 22
2. Gibbons, Brendan Freshman, No. 34 2. Wright, Bryan RS junior, No. 43 2. Grady, Kelvin RS sophomore, No.19
Note: Depth chart as predicted by Daily football writers.




0

0

0

0'

w


Noebr7 00 "

:s' -
i'





obert Forcier has been throwing things his entire
life - everything from last-minute, game-winning
touchdowns against Notre Dame to muddy foot-
ball cleats, spikes up, at his older brothers whenever they
picked on him. But when he was two years old, his family
members didn't quite know what to make of it when he
showed the early signs of the arm strength and accuracy
that would one day land him a scholarship at Michigan.
During a family trip to Disneyland, Forcier played with
a NERF Oakland Raiders football while his dad, Mike,
and older brothers, Jason and Chris, went on Space
Mountain. That's nothing out of the ordinary, unless, of
course, that two-year-old is gunning tight spirals across
the sidewalk.
"I would be sitting with him, waiting for everyone else
to get off the ride, and I would be throwing the ball with
him," Forcier's mom Suzanne said. "And I couldn't believe
it. He would throw it like he'd been throwing a football
forever. And people would stare and be like, 'He's just a
kid!' And he's still in the stroller!"
The problem was, at that age, Forcier didn't always
use his fledgling right arm for good.
Like many parents, Mike and Suzanne struggled to
wean their youngest son of his baby bottle, and the bad
habit was starting to rear its negative side effects.
"That's why he had big buck teeth," Forcier's oldest
brother, Jason, 23, said with a laugh.
Mike tried to be the enforcer of the situation, but
Forcier knew how to cover his tracks. When he heard
his dad's large, rumbling Jeep Wrangler storming up
the street, Forcier would stand up and hurl his bottle
completely across the living room - over an Asian shoji
screen room divider propped up in a corner of the room
- and act as if nothing had happened.
"We were like, 'What the hell?' just watching him
chuck it out of nowhere," Jason said. "And then my dad
would come in, and we finally figured out he just wanted
to hide it and not get caught."
Some members of the family were more lenient than
others with Forcier's newfound talent.
"As a mother, of course, I had a little bit more patience
with things
like that,"
Suzanne said.

"They would collect there, and at the end of the week, I
would have to go back there and grab them all and wash
them."
To this day, the Forciers joke that throwing his bottle is
how Tatedeveloped his cannon of an arm.
Even then, Forcier was a quarterback.
LITTLE MAN TATE
Forcier's competitive drive, which his dad calls
"unimaginable," stems from his older brothers' bullying,
an understandable result of being one of three boys who
went on to play college football - one of his brothers
played at Michigan and Stanford (Jason) and the other
plays at Furman after transferring from UCLA (Chris).
Forcier, even though he was small for his age, was
never one to back down when his brothers picked on
him.
"He'd take a butter knife and try poking me with it and
say, 'Does that hurt, huh?' " Jason said. "I'd be laughing
so hard I'd be powerless. He was pretty strong as a little
kid, but I'm his big brother. I can still pound him down
into the dirt."
But the three brothers weren't always fighting. In fact,
the did almost everything together, including football and
just goofing around. But they also worked - something
Mike wanted to teach them from a young age. Forcier,
Jason and Chris grew up helping out at San Diego Limo
Buses, Mike's self-started party vehicle company.
On weekends, the three would clean limos and help
Mike with marketing work for a few hours. They didn't
get much money, but $40 to an eight-year-old is a pretty
hefty bit of'pocket change. -
The trio decided to pool their money to get a Zodiac
boat, an inflatable raft with a two-and-half horsepower
engine. Even though the boys could ride a bike faster
than the boat could go, they loved taking it out together.
"That was the coolest thing, like buying a car or home,"
Jason said. "We took that thing out every weekend. We'd
go fishing, have little parties out there, find
little islands and stuff. We were always try- -
ing to go out on it, just fun things we could do,

because we were always together."
They didn't realize it then, but Mike's message was
clear - you have to earn everything, a message that
Jason thinks has helped the boys get where they are
today.
It's a message that easily transfers to sports, and
sports are what Forcier's life has revolved around since
he could walk. Even when the family would go to Block-
buster to rent video games, he would race into the store
before his brothers just to make sure they didn't pick out
something non-sports.
"It would drive his brothers nuts," Mike said. "They'd
say, 'Don't you ever want to do anything that doesn't
have to do with sports?' "
The answer: Rarely.
Why would he? Forcier, who was nicknamed "Little
Man Tate" in the early 1990s when a movie of the same
name came out about a child prodigy, showed an innate
knack for athletics. He was especially good at basketball
and Pop Warner football, where he once again show-
cased his gunslinger's arm.
On the court, Forcier regularly played up two or three
age groups, even though he was a small kid to begin with.
He played until ninth grade, and even though he would
often get beat, sometimes, he would hold his own.
"He was playing inner-city kids, and Tate didn't care,"
Jason said. "He had skateboarding shoes on and had the
bowl cut and two big buck teeth, and he was in like fourth
grade trying to guard these sixth graders. It was cool to
see, just his 'little brother' mentality that, 'I'm not going
to let these kids beat me.' "
Butit was the football field - where he played kids his
own age - where he really excelled.
"At that age, you never see the ball thrown," Jason
said. "The coaches would figure out which kids could
catch and just have them run straight up the field and,
when they caught it, it was always a touchdown, because
no one knows how to cover passes at that age. They were

killing these teams left and right because of that."
Even then, the Forciers were making a name for them-
selves -- in more ways than just the football field. An
avid Michigan fan who grew up in Birmingham, Mike
would take the boys to Trophies, a local San Diego sports
bar, to watch the Wolverines after the boys' Pop Warner
games.
The Forciers would trot in, the boys still fully padded
from head to toe and Mike in his coaching sweatshirt -
one that made him look like Patriots coach Bill Belichick,
according to Jason.
"We'd order a table, and everyone in there would turn
around and look at us," Jason said. "But after a while,
they started to recognize us and get a kick out of the kids
that would sit there in their pads and watch the football
games. We were like, 'Dad, we just want to take our pads
off,' and he'd say, 'No, this is going to be funny.' "
But through his childhood, it was Forcier's intense
competitive nature that made him stand out - even in
situations where it was better to subdue it. When Forcier
was seven, he and a friend ran ahead of the family as they
searched for their car in a parking garage.
Mike found him using a rock to scratch a game of Tic-
Tac-Toe into a stranger's car.
"My dad was like, 'What an idiot,' and told Tate he'd
have to pay for it," Jason said. "And he paid for it by him-
self, but at the time, he goes, 'Well, I won!' "
FINDING THE RIGHT FIT
As much as the brothers were together growing up,
they took very different paths once each entered high
school. Jason, the oldest, went to school in St. Clemente,
Calif., nearly an hour and a half away from the Forcier
residence. Chris went to a small, Catholic, all-boys
school named St. Augustine.
Tate originally followed in Chris's footsteps. The prob-
lem was, unlike Chris, who had gone to a Catholic middle
school, Forcier was a public-school kid through eighth
grade - and he was
wholly unprepared

for the transition:
"You're talking about an all-boys Catholic school - it
was pretty strict," Mike said. "And Tate, well, he's like a
little gambler. He was pushing his luck all the time. He'd
come to school with no belt, and he. knew he was sup-
posed to have a belt, and he wanted to see what he could
'get away with."
He soon found out that he couldn't get away with
much.
Within three weeks of entering ninth grade at St.
Augustine, Forcier had racked up enough detentions that
he had to serve one on a Friday, forcing him to miss the
bus for one of the Saints' crucial rivalries - a game he
would have missed completely if Mike hadn't taken off
work to drive him after detention.
After a while, Forcier had had enough, and his old com-
petitive flair took over once again. He swiped a pad of
detention slips off his teacher's desk and started writing
citations for members of the baseball team, who Forcier
suspected had ratted him out so that their star pitcher
could take over the quarterback spot.
He wrote out detentions for anything he could think
of, stuffed them into his enemies' lockers and soon, the
detention room began filling up around him.
"No one knew how on earth all these kids were getting
so many detentions," Mike said with a laugh. "The teach-
ers had no idea what was going on.
"It's still legendary over there."
Needless to say, the school and Forcier didn't see eye-
to-eye on a lot of things.
A couple weeks later, Forcier decided the Catholic
school route wasn't for him. But that put him in an odd
position. On top of struggling at St. Augustine, Forcier,
who had been an all-A student through sixth grade,
didn't do so well in seventh and eighth.
His parents had taken on more responsibilities at San
Diego Limo Buses, which left Forcier to fend for himself
- and he fell behind quickly.
Looking back, Mike knows the importance that time
had on his son. See FORCIER, Page 7B


