* ~
;, ~ r

~be ffic1 ig nan &ij

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, November 17, 2009

michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN FOOTBSALL
Practice logs
not filed, July
audit found

Eastern Michigan University sophomore Victoria Francola and junior Casey Williamson watch the Leonid meteor shower in the Nichols Arboretum early this morning.
It is expected that the shower will be special this year because of the moon's phase. For more photos of the meteor shower, go to michigandaily.com.
REGENTS PREVIEW
Regents mull$i n projects

Experts on NCAA
rules say latest release
may spell trouble for
Michigan football
By GARY GRACA and
KYLE SWANSON
Editor in Chief and Daily News Editor
A University audit released yes-
terday found the football team
failed to turn in forms that track
various athletic activities for the
2008-2009 academic year. And
though University documents say
the issue has been resolved, sev-
eral experts have said they believe
this seems likely to be the latest in
a growing pile of problems the Ath-
letic Department is facing.
The audit, conducted by Uni-
versity Audits in partnership with
the Athletics Compliance Services
Office was completed on July 24
and came nearly a month before
the Detroit Free Press published its
report on Aug. 30 that alleged the
football team violated rules gov-
erning practice time and off-season
workouts.
The audit -, the University's
annual compliance review - "did
not observe any issues of non-
compliance with NCAA rules and
regulations," but did find that the
football team did not submit Count-
able Athletically Related Activities

forms. Auditors stated that the fail-
ure to turn in these forms did not
violate NCAA rules.
CARA forms, which are essen-
tially practice logs, track the num-
ber of hours student-athletes spend
on their sports and are used to
track compliance with NCAA rules
regarding countable practice hours.
The forms are supposed to be sub-
mitted monthly by both the coaches
and players, though the Athletic
Department allows flexibility for
larger teams. However, the audit
stated the Michigan football team
failed to submit its CARA forms in
a timely manner.
In response to these findings,
the auditors wrote a memorandum
to head football coach Rich Rodri-
guez, Bradley Labadie, director
of football operations, and Scott
Draper, assistant athletic director
for football operations, explaining
the problem and urging the Ath-
letic Department to correct it.
"Athletics should emphasize to
the football program the impor-
tance of submitting CARA forms
timely to ensure compliance with
NCAA limits on athletically relat-
ed activities," the memo stated.
"Athletics should also determine if
the football programs process for
completing CARA forms can be
improved and assist if necessary."
The memorandum ended by
stating, "There will be no follow-
up review for this issue and your
See AUDIT, Page 3

Renovation sites
include Wolverine
Tower, museum
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
During its monthly meeting on
Thursday, the University's Board
of Regents is set to review propos-
als that would spend $31.4 million
to renovate facilities and upgrade
operations.
The regents are expected to
approve renovations to Wolverine

Tower, the Edward Henry Kraus
Building, the Chemistry Building
and the Willard H. Dow Labora-
tory. The regents are also expect-
ed to give the OK for a renovation
and relocation of the Alexander G.
Ruthven Museums Building and
the Museum of Zoology collec-
tion and a maintenance project to
strengthen information technol-
ogy services on campus.
The largest of the projects to be
considered is a $17.6 million reloca-
tion and renovation project for the
Museum of Zoology's collection.
According to the formal request
from Timothy Slottow, executive

vice president and chief financial
officer, the project will move most
of the "wet" collection - consist-
ing of specimens preserved in fluid
- into 46,000 square feet of newly
renovated space in the Varsity
Drive building.
Additionally, the project will
include a plan to create a safe stor-
age area for the museum's teach-
ing collection by renovating about
6,800 square feet of space in the
Ruthven Museums Building.
In a communication to the
regents, Slottow laid out his
request for $2.2 million to fund a
renovation of four laboratory facil-

ities in the Edward Henry Kraus
Building. If approved, renovations
will include work on four labora-
tories and their support spaces on
the first, second, third and fourth
floors of the building. The 5,900
square-foot project is slated for
completion in the fall of 2010.
Slottow is also requesting an
additional $6.3 million for a 61,000
square-foot renovation spanning
seven floors of the Wolverine
Tower facility, located on State
Street across from Briarwood
Mall. According to Slottow's letter
requesting approval for the funds,
See REGENTS, Page 3


STAT E L EGISL AT UR E
Ann Arbor representatives
push for two gay rights bills

STRONG FEELINGS ON GENDER-NEUTRAL HOUSING

San
non
pol
pro
Pro
Michi
ward
tion o
legali
the st
a state
comml
prohib
sexual
Bot
same-
and
House
state
includ
The
introdi
Temp
Twp.)
amend
to he
state.
tion w
recogn
perfor
The
a com

ne-sex marriage, clergy members to exempe themo-
selves from performing same-sex
i-discrimination marriages.
In an interview yesterday,
icies the focus of Byrnes said the main motivation
in introducing the amendment
posed legislation was to ensure equal rights for all
people.
By NICOLE ABER "I think it's time for people to
Daily StaffReporter acknowledge the change in atti-
tude...that more and more people
ponents of gay rights in are acceptingofhomosexual rela-
gan took two big steps for- tionships and the need that these
recently with the introduc- people have to be respected and
tf a resolution that would honored as anybody else as far
ze same-sex marriage in as their rights are concerned,"
ate and the passage through Byrnes said.
e House of Representatives But opponents of the bill, like
ittee of a bill that would Rep.DaveAgema(R-Grandville),
bit discrimination based on argue that Byrnes's proposal is
1 orientation. unwarranted because Michigan
h the proposal to permit citizens voted in 2004 to ban
sex marriage in the state same-sex marriage in the state.
the anti-discrimination "In 2004, we voted on that
e bill were introduced by issue and the people in the state
legislators whose districts of Michigan overwhelmingly
e Ann Arbor. voted not to do that," Agema
marriage resolution, said. "So to me, what's going on
uced by House Speaker Pro here is completely trying to erase
ore Pam Byrnes (D-Lyndon or eliminate what the people in
, would overturn a 2004 the state of Michigan have voted
dment that limits marriage on."
terosexual couples in the Legal rights and benefits for
Additionally, the resolu- married couples were the main
could also make the state concerns that contributed to
nize same-sex marriages Byrnes's decision to introduce
med in other states. the amendment.
proposal also contains "I'm looking at the legal aspect
tponent that would allow of acknowledgment and benefits

in law that married couples, het-
erosexual married couples have,
and I believe that those same
benefits should be accorded to
same sex partners," Byrnes said.
But Byrnes said she decided to
includethecomponentthat would
exempt clergy members from
performing marriage ceremonies
to same-sex couples because she
does not want to mandate this
law for those who do not agree
with it because of certain reli-
gious beliefs - a nuance that was
modeled after Vermont's same-
sex marriage legislation.
"There are religious beliefs
out there that do not support
that position and...at this point
in time, I felt very uncomfortable
about mandating that all clergy
must perform this ceremony
because of religious beliefs,"
Byrnes said.
As Byrnes introduced this pro-
posal, the House Judiciary Com-
mittee passed a separate bill that
would prohibit discrimination
based on sexual orientation.
The bill, introduced last year
by Rep. RebekahWarren (D-Ann
Arbor), would update the Elliott-
Larsen Civil Rights Act passed in
1976.
The bill was introduced in
order to extend equal civil rights
to people of all sexual orienta-
tions as a moral imperative, War-
See LEGISLATION, Page 7

AAKON AUSBUER/Lcaily
LSA senior Joel Berger shows his support for gender-neutral housing at a rally on the Diag yesterday. For a complete story on the
rally, check out our news blg, The Wire, at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire.
LITIG A TItN ReEPOR T
Whilstleblo0wer trial verdict delayed

Verdict expected
today, after day of
testimony Monday
By BETHANY BIRON
DailyStaffReporter
The case brought by a former
University research assistant
alleging wrongful termination
from his research post will drag
on for another day after the jury

decided yesterday to hold off
deciding on the final verdict until
this morning.
Robert McGee, 54, filed the suit
against the University Board of
Regents after he was terminated
from his job as a research assistant
in the Nuclear Engineering and
Radiological Sciences Department.
McGee alleges that he was fired
because he reported safety viola-
tions in the laboratory.
McGee said he saw Assistant
Prof. Michael Hartman, who led

the project, engage in various
safety protocol violations, includ-
ing dumping dangerous chemicals
down a drain and entering another
lab without proper access. McGee
saidHartmanalso puthim inadan-
gerous situation in which he could
have been exposed to the highly
radioactive isotope Cesium-237.
Yesterday the judge called two
new witnesses to the stand: Bill
Martin, professor and chair of the
Nuclear Engineering and Radio-
See TRIAL, Page 7

WEATHEHR : 52
TOMORROW LO 46

GOT A NEWS.TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news Smichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
City Council approves Silvio's liquor license.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ................................... 2 SPORTS.. . . .......... 5
Vol. CXX, No. 49 SUDOKU .............................3 CLASSIFIEDS.. . .........6
2009 TheMichiganoDaily OPINION ............AR.................. ............ . .. . . . .....8
michandaily.caw


*I

2 - Tuesday, November 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUSDY

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

(1 r W cIidian Dail
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0asa
graca~jmichigandailyecom emdhoisess@goaiItcom

*0

A building with a history of uses

In 1890, Helen New-
berry donated $18,000 to
the Students' Christian
Association in honor of
her husband, John New-
berry. One year later, the
association's headquarters
on South State Street was
completed bearing the
name "Newberry Hall." In
all likelihood, Mrs. New-
berry didn't know that 200
years later the building
she helped finance would
be home to nearly 100,000
archaeological artifacts.
After decades of chang-
ing hands, Newberry Hall
finally became the Fran-
cis W. Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology in 1953. The
building functioned as
the center for the campus'
Young Women's Christian

Association from 1904-
1921, and was then rented
to the University for class-
room use. In 1937, the title
to the building was trans-
ferred to the University,
and in 1953, the museum
was established.
The museum takes its
name from a University
professor of Latin literature
and language in the late
1800s. According to Lau-
ren Talalay, the museum's
curator and associate direc-
tor, Prof. Kelsey wanted
his students to "have some
understanding of archaeol-
ogy as well as the ancient
languages."
In 1893, Kelsey traveled
to the site of the ancient city
of Carthage in modern-day
Tunisia, where he befriend-

ed a Jesuit priest who was
conducting an archaeologi-
cal dig. The priest offered to
sell Kelsey 109 objects from
the site, and with that pur-
chase, the foundation of the
Kelsey Museum of Archae-
ology was acquired.
For several years, Kelsey
traveled around the Medi-
terranean obtaining items
for his collection, eventual-
ly returning to Ann Arbor.
Unfortunately, there
was nowhere on campus
to house all of his acquisi-
tions.
Undeterred by the lack of
space, Kelsey went abroad
again in 1924, this time to
a site in northern Egypt.
From 1924 to 1935, he con-
ducted a dig, and, according
to Talalay, "45,000 objects

flooded back into Ann
Arbor."
Sincethen, the collection,
which focuses on Greek,
Egyptian, Near Eastern
and Roman material, has
grown to include 100,000
objects, the oldest of which
are stone tools, almost one
million years old. However,
Talalay said that before
the recent addition of the
newly opened William E.
Upjohn Exhibit Wing, the
museum was only capable
of displaying one percent of
its collection.
"We could only display
abouttwo or threehundred
(objects) in the old build-
ing," Talalay said. "Now
we've gone up to 1,300 and
ultimately 2,000."
-ALLIE WHITE

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroomo
News Tips
Corrections
Letters tothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

office hoursS.-Thurs. 11 .m. -2 a.m.
news@miohigandaily.com
orrections@michieandaily.com
totedaily@michigandaily.omn
photo@michieandailyuom
atspage@michigasdaiy.on
opinion@michigandaily.om
spotsmoichigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.omo
classified@miohigandaily.ox
onlieads@miosigandaiy.ox
finance@ichigandaiy.omx

Newberry Hall, home to the Francis W. Kelsey
Museum, was built in 1890.

CRIME NOTES
iPod stolen
at hospital
WHERE: University hospital
WHEN: Sunday at
about 10:40 p.m.
WHAT: An iPod was sto-
len from a male patient's
hospital room after it
was left unattended. The
iPod was valued at $200.
There are no suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Wii swiped
WHERE: Executive Resi-
dence, 710 E. University
WHEN: Sunday at 2:30 p.m.
WHAT: A Wii gaming system
was stolen from a male guest of
the University after it was left
unattended on the sixth floor
lounge of the Executive Resi-
dence. There are no suspects.
lTn nird ,,

warnng to
rowdy students
One-car crash

Advance
screening:
When in Rome
WHAT: Movie patrons
can print movie passes
from WhenlnRomeScreen-
ings.com or pick them up
from the UAC office at
the Michigan Union.
WHO: M-Flicks/UAC
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Natural Sci-
ence Building
Berlin
Philharmonic
WHAT: One of three exclusive
performances with conduc-
tor Simon Rattle. Tickets
range from $10 to $125.
WHO: University
Musical Society
WEtN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

Devendra
Banhart
WHAT: Performance
by psychedelic folk art-
ist Devendra Banhart.
General admission
tickets are $29.50.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
Jewish legal
studies
WHAT: Discussion on the
development of Jewish law
through rabbinic literature.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hillel
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

When President Barack
Obama was asked about
the Chinese government's
Internet censorship and the
inability of Chinese citizens to
use Twitter, Obama responded
that he's never used Twitter,
despite having 2.6 million fol-
lowers of his Twitter account,
according to readwriteweb.com.
Rep. Richard Hammer
(D-Mt. Morris Town-
ship) has introduced a
bill to allow bars to stay open
until 4 a.m.
>>FOR MORE,SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
There has been a 13.4
decrease in remittances
coming from the U.S. to
Mexico through the Bank of
Mexico this year, according
to The New York Times. This
current trend of "reverse remit-
tances" has shown more money
being sent from Mexico to the
U.S. due to the economic crisis.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSMilOvitZ ManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skolle, r:, leSwas
ASSSTA aNEWStEDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutter
Andy Reid ManagingSpotsEditor reid@michigandaeity.com
.SENIORSPORnnSEDIORS:Nicoleuerbach,MikeEiseasteinIanKayRuth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gion Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,Chris Mesrs,Ryan eodtes
DaVidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
,SoNOARSEDITORS: Jelock, Whitney Po
SSTANTARTSEDITORS:o shuBayeCaroynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
JeffSanford
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChihand design@michigandaiy.com
MaueenStyh ManaionesgnEditors
lessica VOsgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaity.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATECOPYCHIEF:MelanieFried,AdiWollste
BUSINESS STAFF
Kaielaewiak Sales Mnoager
SALS FOC MANAGER:MollTweigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASS FIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily(ISSN0745-967)sispihed Monday throughFridayduringthefall andwinter
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to all readers.
Additional copies may be picked up at theDaliy's office for $2. Subscriptions for falterm, starting in
September,via U.S.maiare $11.Winter term(January throughAprilis$115, yearlong(September
through Aprl)is19. ssUniversity affiliates are subjecto aareduced subscription rate.On-campus
subsciptionstorfatemare$35.scrptionssutberapaid;The MichiganDailyisamemberof
Te Assote Pressad The AsocatedColiate Presst.

WHERE: 1170 W. Medi-
cal Center, Lot M-15
WHEN: Sunday at
about 7:40 p.m.
WHAT: A car's front bum-
per was damaged after the
female driver hit a stone pil-
lar in the parking lot. There
were no human injuries.

WHERE: Nichols Arboretum
WHEN: Saturday at
about 11:20 p.m.
WHAT: A group of male and
female students were given a
verbal warning for hanging
out in the Arboretum after
hours. They were report-
edly making loud noises
and howling at the moon.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime NoIes? Get moreonline at michigandaily.co/olgs/thewire .


Looking ahead to book release,
Palm discusses politics, family

Sales estimate slow holiday season

2012 election not on
the former Alaska
governor's mind
NEW YORK (AP) - Sarah Palin
wouldn't reveal her political plans
for 2012 in an interview with Bar-
bara Walters, but when asked
whether she'd play a major role
replied that "if people will have me,
I will."
The former Republican vice
presidential candidate said that
election isn't even on her radar
screen.
"My ambition, if you will, my
desire is to help our country in
whatever role that may be, and I
cannot predict what that will be,
what doors will be open in the year

2012," she told Walters.
Palin is making the rounds to
promote her new book, "Going
Rogue," which will be released
Tuesday.
On Monday, she appeared on the
"The Oprah Winfrey Show," and
ABC released excerpts of the inter-
view with Walters that will begin
airing on newscasts Tuesday.
The former Alaska governor
said she'd rate President Barack
Obama's performance a 4 out of 10.
She criticized the president for his
handling of the economy and for
"dithering" on national security
questions.
"There are a lot of decisions
being made that I - and probably
the majority of Americans - are
not impressed with right now," she
said on ABC.

The title of Palin's book refers
to a phrase John McCain's cam-
paign used to describe his vice
presidential running mate going
off message. In the book, she criti-
cizes the people who ran McCain's
campaign and says wished she had
been allowed to speak more freely.
But she told Walters the outcome
probably would not have been dif-
ferent if she had.
"The economy tanked," she said.
"(The) electorate was ready, sin-
cerely, for change."
Palin said she's gotten plenty of
offers during the past few months,
including to open up her family for
a reality show, that she has reject-
ed. She also said she wasn't sure
whether a talk show would bebest
for her family. "I'd probably rather
write than talk," she said.

Economy not
expected to rebound,
despite slight jump
in retail figures
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Improved retail sales gave Wall
Street a boost Monday but provid-
ed little hope for a robust holiday
shopping season that might invigo-
rate the economic recovery.
The October figures, driven by a
surge in auto sales, exceeded econ-
omists' expectations. Yet consum-
ers are so squeezed by tight credit
and rising unemployment that
economists don't expect to see sig-
nificant spending until well after
year's end. Even optimists predict
scant improvement over last year's
holiday season.
Consumer spending accounts
for about 70 percent of total eco-
nomic activity, so wary shoppers
are a worrisome sign for retailers
entering the crucial holiday season.
"U.S. consumers are no longer
panicked, but they remain cau-
tious," said Mark Zandi, chief
economist at Moody's Economy.

com. "They are spending just
enough to keep the economy out of
recession, but not enough to fuel a
self-sustained expansion."
Retail sales rose 1.4 percent last
month, the Commerce Department
said. But excluding a big rebound
in auto sales, the gain was just 0.2
percent. Strength at general mer-
chandise stores like Wal-Mart and
Target was offset by sales declines
at furniture stores, appliance stores
and hardware stores.
Zandi said one telling statistic
about household finances was that
the number of bank credit cards
in circulation has fallen 18 per-
cent since the year began. That's
happened as banks facing soaring
loan losses have tightened credit
standards.
Consumer credit has now fallen
for a record eight straight months
through September and house-
holds are struggling to manage
their debt levels after the most
severe recession since the 1930s.
Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben Bernanke warned Monday
of "important headwinds," such
as the weak job market and tight
credit conditions. These forces
"likely will prevent the expansion


from being as robust as we would
hope," he told the Economic Club
of New York.
On Wall Street, major stock
indexes rose more than 1 percent
to new 13-month highs after the
retail sales figures were released.
The Dow Jones industrial average
jumped 136 points to 10,406 and
the Standard & Poor's 500 index
closed above the 1,100 mark for the
first time in more than a year.
The overall economy, as mea-
sured by the gross domestic
product, resumed growing in the
July-September quarter at what
the government estimated was an
annual rate of 3.5 percent. That
was a sharp rebound after a record
four straight declines in GDP.
Analysts noted that the retail
sales report Monday included a
sharp downward revision to sales
in September. The government
also reported last week that the
nation's trade deficit rose in Sep-
tember by the largest percentage
in a decade.
As a result, third-quarter GDP
is expected to drop to a more mod-
est 2.8 percent growth rate when
the government releases a revised
estimate next week.

i

0I

INTERESTED IN THE FIELD OF GRAPHIC DESIGN?

7he 1Iichinan ailu P R E S E N T S

Design Ads for
The Daily.
The Michigan Daily Advertising Design Department
is lookina to fill a design position for Winter 2010.

0

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

,

_ p1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 17, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Men linked to slain
Detroit mosque
leader indicted
Eleven people have been indict-
ed in the FBI's investigation of a
Detroit mosque leader who was
fatally shot nearly three weeks ago.
Ten of the 11 are charged with
conspiring to possess and sell sto-
len goods, from computers to furs.
They were first named in a
criminal complaint in late October.
The complaint also named mosque
leader Luqman Ameen Abdullah,
who was described as having a vio-
lent, anti-government ideology. His
allies deny he was a radical.
The FBI says Abdullah was
killed after firing a gun and resist-
ing arrest on Oct. 28.
The indictment against the 11
was filed last week in federal court
in Detroit. There are no terror-
related charges. Court documents
say two men will ask a judge Tues-
day to release them on bail.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.
Twelve injured in
concert shooting
A gunman opened fire at a group
of fighting men, injuring 12 people
outside a concert hall, authorities
said Monday.
The gunfire erupted Sunday
night near the Regency Ballroom
after several men were involved in
a fist fight, San Francisco police Sgt.
Wilfred Williams said. The victims
were taken to hospitals with non-
life threatening injuries.
At some point, a man stand-
ing near the fighters opened fire
in their direction before running
away, police said.
The suspect did not appear to
be related to either of the fighting
parties and was not part of the fist
fight, Williams said.
Eight people were shot and
another four were injured by glass
and bullet fragments, Williams
said. The men involved in the fight,
who were not identified, were not
hurt.
Police said the concert had let
out when the fist fight broke out. It
was not immediately clear whether
the men in the fight or the gunman
attended the concert, which was
sponsored by San Francisco hip
hop and rhythm and blues station
O KMEL.
BEING
Obama: Iran,
North Korea have
choices on nuke
programs
President Barack Obama says
there will be consequences if Teh-
ran does not demonstrate Iran's
nuclear program is "peaceful and
transparent."
Speakingwith Chinese President
Hu Jintao, Obama said Tuesday
that the United States and China
will work together to confront the
threat of an Iran that is armed with
nuclear weapons. Obama says the

United Nations Security Council
members are unified against such
a prospect. el
Obama says he and Hu also dis-
cussed their shared goal to stop
the spread of nuclear weapons
and the verifiable elimination of
North Korea's nuclear weapons
program..
He says Pyongyang has a choice
between engagement and isola-
tion. Obama says North Korea's
people would benefit from Pyong-
yang complying with interna-
tional demands over its nuclear
program.
NEW YORK
'Unfriend' is US
dictionary's 2009
Word of the Year
What word sums up 2009? How
about unfriend?
That's the New Oxford Ameri-
can Dictionary's 2009 Word of the
Year. It means to remove someone
as a friend on a social networking
Web site such as Facebook.
Each year Oxford University
Press tracks how the English lan-
guage is changing and chooses a
word that best reflects the mood of
the year.
Oxford lexicographer Christine
Lindberg says unfriend has "real
lex appeal."
Finalists for 2009 also included
netbook, which is a small laptop,
and sexting, which is sending sexu-
ally explicit texts and pictures by
cell phone.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Cash reward
offered for Elm
St. attack leads

GM President and CEO Fritz Henderson listens to a question while talking with reporters after a news conference.
GM:-., Improved quarter
shows signsofstabiit

Still no leads in
brutal Halloween
attack investigation
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily StaffReporter
The Ann Arbor Police Depart-
ment is now offering a $250
reward for information about
the brutal Elm Street beating
that left one 19-year-old man in
the hospital.
According to eyewitness
accounts, the victim was brutally
beaten after attempting to drive
down the crowded street during
the annual Elm Street Halloween
block party. The AAPD confirmed
that there were between 10 and 15
individuals involved in the beating.
AAPD Lt. Mark St. Amour
said the detective assigned to
this case has "exhausted all her
leads to any suspects."
"She's interviewed the victim
and is just unable at this point to
pinpoint any suspects," he said.
St. Amour said that though
witness interviews held at the
scene of the beating did not yield
any leads, he expects witnesses
still remain because of the sheer
volume of people on the street.
"There's a good chance that
someone mightrecognize or know
someone by name," he said.
St. Amour said any individual
who provides any information
that leads to a conviction will be
awarded the money.
Currently the AAPD hasn't
identified a single suspect, and
is encouraging witnesses to
come forward. St. Amour said

the AAPD also wants anyone
who was involved in the beat-
ing to "give us their side of the
story."
Anyone with information
about the beating is encouraged
to contact AAPD at (734) 794-
6939 or tips@a2gov.org.
According to a previous Daily
article, LSA seniors Brian Barton
and Zachary Ward said they cap-
tured video footage and photos of
the attack on a digital camera. Bar-
ton and Ward said they immedi-
ately submitted the memory card
with the evidence to police at the
scene, but that officers later told
them the memory card was lost
before police could view it.
Barton told the Daily that the
memory card contained images
of college-aged men jumping on
the back of the victim's vehicle
right before he was beaten.
According to AAPD, the offi-
cer in possession of the memory
card reported that it fell out
of his breast pocket when he
removed his memo pad at the
scene of the beating. St. Amour
couldn't identify which officer
lost the memory card.
Though Barton said AAPD
told them the memory'card was
lost before it could be viewed, St.
Amour said the evidence was in
fact viewed but was immediately
determined to be inconclusive
because of its poor quality. He
said the video and photos were
taken on a camera phone, not a
digital camera.
"(The officer) did see it but
it's .a cell phone camera and it's
nighttime so its not detailed,
just a large crowd surrounding
the victim." St. Amour said.

Automaker pledges a stay in Chapter 11. The company
credited a sharp reduction in debt
to start repaying and sales of newmodels.
In what it called a sign of prog-
government loans ress, GM also pledged to start pay-
ing back $6.7 billion in U.S. loans.
DETROIT (AP) - General But the money will come from a
Motors, its river of red ink stemmed contingency account full of gov-
by a trip through bankruptcy court, ernment cash, leading critics to
reported a narrower quarterly loss question justhow healthy the auto-
and said it would start repaying bil- maker really is.
lions of dollars in government loans In onesignGM isindeedon firmer
that helped keep it alive. footing, it took in $3.3billion more in
GM lost $1.2 billion for the third acash than it spent in the third quar-
quarter - far less than the $6 billion ter. In the first quarter, the last one
itlostinthe first three months of the for which it reported results, GM
year, before GM was transformed by burned through $10 billion in cash.
-- -- cern with respect to the football
AUDIT program."
From Page 1 However, a report by the Free
Press yesterday about the audit
response is not required." report quoted several experts who
However,the University's state- raised serious concerns about the
ment yesterday explained this Athletic Department's operations
statement in the memorandum, in light of the report's findings.
saying that "response to the issue Josephine Potuto, a law profes-
was required and did occur" and sor at the University of Nebraska
that "forms are now turned in on and former chairwoman of the
a timely basis." NCAA's committee on infractions
In contrast to that statement said she didn't believe compliance
from the University, an auditor's officers could effectively do their
note in the audit stated that, in job without CARA reports.
fact, not all CARA forms have "I find it very surprising if the
been turned in. compliance people didn't know
"Football out-of-season forms that the forms weren't being sub-
were submitted after the audit was mitted," she told the Free Press.
completed and were therefore not "One of the obligations of compli-
reviewed by University Audits. ance is to collect those forms and
Football regular-season CARA reviewthem."
forms still have not been submit- Michael Buckner, a lawyer from
ted," auditors wrote in the report. Florida who consults with univer-
University spokeswoman Kelly sities duringNCAA investigations,
Cunningham declined to com- told the Free Press that if the Uni-
ment on the apparent discrepancy versity cannot produce evidence
in a telephone interview yester- to convince the NCAA of its inno-
day, because of the ongoing inves- cence, there could be much more
tigations by the NCAA and the trouble for the Athletic Depart-
University. ment.
It is unclear when off-season "The enforcement staff is going
CARA reports were received, and to be looking at whether the insti-
the University's statement does tution failed to monitor," he told
not explicitly address the matter. the Free Press.
At the time the allegations from Buckner continued by telling
the Free Press were published, the Free Press that could be "a
Associate Director Judy Van Horn, major violation."
the Athletic Department's compli- "It's one step below lack of
ance officer, denied allegations of institutional control," he told the
wrongdoing. newspaper.
"We have not had any reason to A third expert quoted in a
self-report any violations in this report by the Free Press yester-
area with any of our sports," Van day, Mark Jones, a former NCAA
Horn said in a statement at the enforcement supervisor, said the
time. University's lack of records was
Rodriguez and Athletic Direc- another piece of bad news for a
tor Bill Martin both denied allega- program already under investiga-
tions in August that the team had tion by the NCAA.
violated NCAA rules, saying they "There always can be factors
did not believe any wrongdoings that can influence things that may
had occurred. notmake themnas bad asyou think,"
The denials from Van Horn, Jones told the Free Press. "But in
Rodriguez and Martin came at the long run - still not good. No
a time when at least some of the way getting around that."
CARA forms -the regular-season Today's releases are the first
forms - had not been submitted major ones from the University
for review, since the Detroit Free Press pub-
Speaking to the audit's limits lished its report on Aug. 30. They
with respect to the NCAA inves- come almost four weeks after the
tigation, the University's state- NCAA issued the University an
ment yesterday explained that the official "notice of inquiry" -. a
"audit does not identify where the procedural notice that the NCAA
system broke down and it did not is moving forward with an inves-
identify any other areas of con- tigation.
REGENTS at the University. The project would
rom Pagreplace networking infrastruc-
From Page 1 ture that coordinates data sharing
betweenbuildingsoncampus,would
goals of the renovation include improve the University's wireless
"more efficient use of office space network and would upgrade compo-

and increased cross-departmental nents of the University's telephone
sharing" of various common areas. switch. Additionally, funds would
The renovations will temporarily be used to extend outside cabling
displace 50 parking spots at Wol- to North Quad, the North Campus
verine Tower until the project is Research Complex and the Wall
completed in fall 2011. Street complex.
The fourth project up for consid- Finally, the regents will also
eration is a $3.8 million upgrade to entertain a proposal to replace
IT Communication infrastrue ire a chiller - a large. r condition-

GMwarneditwillfaceothercosts
that will bring down earnings in the
coming months, including restruc-
turing in Europe and as much as
$700 million to shutter dealerships.
And there are still questions about
the strength of the auto market and
the economy.
"We're seeingsigns of, I won'tecall
it a recovery, but certainly stability,"
CEO Fritz Henderson said.
The repayment of government
loans will begin with a $1.2 billion
installment in December. GM said it
plans to repay the debt over the next
two years and possibly as early as
next year.
In today's statement, the Uni-
versity noted that the audit and
an accompanying memorandum
were provided to the NCAA "at
the outset of its investigation."
According to the notice of
inquiry, signed by David Prince,
the NCAA's vice president of
6riforceinent, the NCAA investi-
gation is focusing on possible vio-
lations that "primarily involve the
matters under review by the insti-
tution and the enforcement staff
concerning the football program."
The letter added, though, that
the NCAA would consider infor-
mation "that leads to expanded
inquiries."
According to the notice, the
NCAA expects to complete its
investigation by Dec. 31, 2009.
Speculation from many has
focused on whether Rodriguez
may be dismissed from his posi-
tion as Michigan's football coach
if the NCAA allegations are found
to be true. Though Rodriguez's
contract includes a penalty for
early termination, it also includes
a clause that would exempt the
University from paying the pen-
alty if he is found to have violated
NCAA rules.
"If the Head Coach is deter-
mined by the NCAA, the Big Ten
Conference, or the University to
have committed a major violation
of the NCAA Rules, or to have
intentionally committed any other
type of violation of the NCAA
Rules, whether while employed
by the University or during prior
employment at another NCAA
member institution, the employ-
ment of the Head Coach may be
terminated as provided in Sec-
tions 4.02 and 4.03 of the Agree-
ment," the contract states.
"In no case shall the Univer-
sity be liable to Rodriguez for the
loss of any Base Salary, Additional
Compensation, collateral business
opportunities or any other ben-
efits, perquisites or income result-
ing from activities such as, but not
limited to, camps, clinics, media
appearances, television or radio
shows, apparel or shoe contracts,
consulting relationships or from
any other sources that may ensue
as a result of the University's ter-
mination for cause of Rodriguez'
employment under this Agree-
ment," section 4.03 of Rodriguez's
contract states.
er - in the Chemistry Building
that serves both the Chemistry
Building and the Willard H. Dow
Laboratory. The replacement is
estimated to cost $1.5 million,
though a communication from
Slottow to the regents said its

replacement would provide nearly
$300,000 a year in energy savings
to the University. The project is
expected to be completed in the
fall of 2010.
- James Lee contributed
to this report.

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
I CoronalSol/odellalfacifico Seil l ih
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER

ppy Hour $4.99 6 W0ns!&P4r
mw



315 Maynard t. Tn G rdr I 73tt4.995.51I5 'NRxI 11 N yIt r Pril Ituture


4 - Tuesday, November U7, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

74L cfirIC4,6,gan 3at*lm

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
I in Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Relaxing late-night laws
State should let bars stay open to raise budget money
ight life in Ann Arbor may get a little more interesting
in the near future. That's because the Michigan House
of Representatives is considering legislation to allow
bars in the state to extend their closing times from 2 a.m. to 4
a.m. Such legislation will stimulate business in local bars while
allowing the government to collect more revenue in taxes due
to the increased hours. Helping businesses while closing budget
gaps is a smart move for the state, and legislators should propose,
pass and implement a policy to keep bars open later.

Having those terrorists tried so close to the attack is
going to be an encumbrance on all New Yorkers."
- New York Gov. David Paterson, commenting on the Obama administration's decision to try five men linked
to the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York civilian court, as reported yesterday by the The New York Times.

ELAINE MORTON

E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Last week, Rep. Richard Hammel (D-Mt.
Morris Twp) introduced a bill that would
allow bars in the state to stay open until 4
a.m., extending closing time by two hours.
The law would also permit liquor stores to
begin selling alcohol as early as 7:30 a.m. on
Sundays instead of the current time of noon.
According to the current legislation, bars
that want to take advantage of the extended
hours would have to pay a $1,500 fee, and
local governments would have the power to
forbid businesses within their jurisdiction
from participating.
The bill is great news for many struggling
Michigan businesses. Because they would
be allowed to stay open later, the bars would
generate more sales and help offset their
economic problems with more revenue.
While the owners will have to pay a $1,500
fee, this isn't overly burdensome, and many
businesses will quickly be able to make up
the cost. And businesses that don't want to
add the hours don't have to. But those who
do will be able to employ people for later
shifts, creating more work and jobs. With
Michigan's debilitating 15.3-percent unem-
ployment rate, even small increases to the
job market can help.
And keeping bars open later will also help
the state government make some money.

This is coming just a few weeks after the
state's bruising budget debate, where fund-
ing for education was slashed across the
board because of deficient revenue sourc-
es. The government needs to find a way to
reverse as many of these cuts as yossible,
and making more money off taxes from bars
that stay open later is one way of doing that.
The state will also profit from the $1,500
fee.
one of the concerns raised about this bill
is that it will encourage late-night drinking
and decrease safety. But college students
who want to stay out late drinking will do
so in any case. The current 2 a.m. restric-
tion does not mean that people aren't drink-
ing after 2 a.m., only that they're doing it
outside of a bar. The state might as well
see if businesses and state revenue sources
can profit from these drinkers. Keeping
the bars open offers these students a place
to drink that is supervised, regulated and
relatively safe. For this reason, local gov-
ernments should not be able to opt out of
the policy.
The state legislature should pass this bill
and give businesses a break while raising
funds for the state budget. But local govern-
ments shouldn't be given the power to end
the party early.

DA t - A-
I/Ziosi --losfii el"
- -o room sithetmIdd Ce?
erehas'beI tofd ss
s For.exmple, tyn -
- bJ the p tican eaders
Ne p 1an (mo1inh theai d g dw
T here has been plenty of discus- who would benefit liberals if they able to overcome all of that by poer-
sionon this page in recenwdays keep him on their side. For example.traying Chafee as a poppet of the evil
about the Stupak Amendment, Stupak voted to prohibit employment Republican leadership - in 2006, that
a last minute addition to the House of discrinmination based on sexual orien- meant Chafee had to go.
Representative's health care reform tation and opposed a constitutional 2006 was also the definitive year
bill that bars coverage for abortions amendment defining marriage. He in the tragic tale of Joe Lieberman.
under federally has supported 'rehabilitative pro- Lieberman was pushed the same way
subsidized insur- grae for criminals, opposed drilling Chafee was, but he had the added
ance plans (From for oil at the Arctic National Wild- burden of having supported the war
the Daily: Stop StY- life Refuge and opposed a bill that in Iraq. Despite being a three-term
pak, 11/10/2009; -- - would allow deportation of illegal incumbent, he was edged out by Ned
Defending repro- immigrants who come into hospitals Lamont in the Democratic primary,
ducive rightstseeking. care. In the last Democratic but managed to rally as an indepen
11/11/2009; Stu- presidential pris ary, Stupak support- dent in the general electionto main-
pak isn't so stupid, ed John Edwards, who - despite his tants his.eat. And then - either out of
11/12/2009). IMRAN later-exposed ickiness - ran easily a true change in his political beliefs,
Missing from the most liberal primary campaign of spite for the Democrats who had
the conversation sYED any 2008 candidate. abandoned him or sheer madness -
thus far, however, Certainly, Stupak's positions on Lieberman became what even four
has been any men- all issues are staggered within the years ago would have been hard to
sion of the man himself - a glaring grey area liberals associate with sell-
omission, considering that anomalies outs. But consider that Stupak took
like Bart Stupak ( f-Mich) will ulti- all of these aforementioned stances L eas L m s d
mately get to shape just about every- knowing full well that they would d appeara noudnt
thing President Barack Obama hopes be unpopular with his constituents.
to accomplish. Then consider that,he still managed atta k centrist
Stupak is a Democrat who has to thump his Republican rival by
represented' Michigan's first Con- mnore than 32 percentage points in the Democrats.
gressional District since 1993. That's 2Qo8 election. This is a man you want
significant because he was the first bn a your corner.
representative of the new first Dis- At a time when the blue-red debate
trict, which emerged from congres- has become more pronounced than imagine: a neoconservative.
sional reapportionment following the ever, people like Stupak are rare. These two are the opposite ends of
1990 census. This new first District There was atime when senators like the spectrum of possible outcomes for
comprises the entire Upper Peninsu- Lincoln Chafee and Joe Lieberman the story of powerful moderates being
Is and a large chunk of the northern could be seen as true leaders ground- pushed aside. Lieberman survived,
Lower Peninsula - about 45 percent ed in the center. But with the recent but did so by appealing to the right
of the state's land mass. inflammatory tactics and hegemonic wing in Connecticut, and emerged
Of the 19 men to represent that delusions of both the Left and the as part of the problem. Chafee was
region in Congress before Stupak. Right, moderates have flittered away. defeated and replaced by a Democrat
only three were Democrats. If you it's impossible to pin down one who has an almost identical ideology
know anything about northern Mich- linchpin, but the 2006 election comes but lacks the influence and friend-
igan, you know that makes sense close. That year, Chafee - then a ships Chafee had with Republicans.
- there aren't too msany "Yes We Republican senator from Rhode Liberals should hope that there is
Can-ers running around up there. Island' - was defeated soundly by a middle path that current moderates.
To represent that region in Congress Democratic upstart Sheldon White- like Stupak and Sen. Olympia Snowe
as a Democrat, Stupak obviously house. Along with his support for (R-Maine) can follow. But for that
must be an anomaly among his cau- affirmative action, gun control, stem path to exist, we have to pave it. To
cus colleagues. And so he is, taking cell research and environmental pro- do so, we might have to let Bart Stu-
the non-liberal position on issues like tection, Chafee denounced President pak take a little souvenir for the good
stem cell research, free trade and, of Bush's war in Iraq and was among the people back home. -
course, abortions. - most outspoken supporters of abor-
But a closer look at tupak suggests tion rights and gay marriage on either - wrat Syed cat be reached
a complex political entity, someone side of the aisle. Yet Whitehouse was at ealad@amich.ed.,

0

0

.0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Government, not businesses,
will lead green revolution
TO T H E IAILY:
In response to Brian Flaherty's column, I think
that he places too much faith in the business com-
munity to address global climate change (Chang-
ing the business climate, 11/16/2009).
While it is true that the private sector should -
and hopefully will - produce the innovations nec-
essary to combat greenhouse gas emissions, the
role of government is too great to dismiss so casu-
ally. It is true that the U.S. government has failed
to lead the way in combating climate change, but
the proper response is to lobby our elected repre-
sentatives and elect more environmentally friend-
ly politicians. We should not abandon what could
be out most powerful tool in enacting real change.
Flaherty was correct in pointing out the
increase in solar panel sales, but failed to mention
the hefty subsidies offeredby, that's right, the gov-
ernment. Nascent and critical industries have his-
torically been subsidized, protected or otherwise
incentivized, green technology should be no dif-
ferent. Flaherty ignored the role that public fund-
ing plays in researchingnew technologies and the
demand created by government-backed incentive
programs.
We need a bold move toward a greener econ-
omy, but it won't come from the conservative
energy and manufacturing industries. Given the
end-of-life-as-we-know-it consequences of global
warming, creating a cap-and-trade system for the
U.S. is a dramatic step toward reining in our car-
bon dioxide emissions. Climate change is a global
issue and the rest of the world is waiting for the
U.S. to take action.
Our government must take steps to create an
atmosphere more conducive to a green econo-
my, but we citizens must hold our government
responsible.
Samuel Marvin
Chair of the University's chapter of the College
Democrats
The Daily's top 10 rankings
ignored Texas Christian
TO THE DAILY:
I am just curious as to why the entire sports
staff failed to put Texas Christian University in
their iop 10 rankings. What else does it have to
do to prove it is an elite team? it crushed a good
Utah team last week, destroyed Brigham Young
in an away game, knocked off a pretty good
Clemson team and have cruised fairly easily
through the rest of the Mountain West. It is hav-

ing a much more dominating year than Utah did
last year, and we all know what Utah did in their
bowl game. There is no question TCU deserves a
high ranking. And if Texas slips, I believe TCU
deserves a chance in the National Champion-
ship game. What's up with the Mountain West
hating?
Eric Hutchinson
Engineeringsophomore
FDA has reason to exclude
gay men from donating
TO THE DAILY:
In his column, Matthew Green dangerously
imposes politics on medical science (There should
be blood, 11/12/2009).
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
explains why gay men are excluded from donat-
ing blood on its website: "Men who have sex with
men and would be likely to donate have a HIV
prevalence that is at present over 15 fold higher
than the general population."
I wish this was an archaic issue, but it isn't.
It's actually getting worse. As of 2006, gay men
accounted for 48.1 percent of all HIV cases in the
U.S. According to the Centers for Disease Con-
trol, "Approximately 56,300 people were newly
infected with HIV in 2006 (the most recent year
that data are available). Over half (53 percent) of
these new infections occurred in gay and bisex-
ual men."
The FDA's policy to exclude gay men from
donating blood is the result of a calculated deci-
sion that keeps nearly 50 percent of all HIV cases
out of the blood supply. it has been maintained
through liberal and conservative administrations
alike.
Furthermore, Green was misleading when he
stated that more advanced tests practically guar-
antee that HIV infected blood would be screened
out. Most of it is. But all tests are guaranteed to
provide a false-negative result some of the time.
Going against the science means that a very few
unfortunate people will contract this fatal dis-
ease who otherwise might not have. That is not
medically ethical treatment. Blood shortages are
not so critical to warrant a change in the policy.
Politically, I actually agree with Green. Iwould
gladly vote to legalize gay marriage. But I will not
rieedlessly reduce the safety of a routine medical
procedure for the sake of politics. The point of
donating is that you make a sacrifice for the ben-
efit of the patient. You do not ask patients to sacri-
fice their safety so that the donor feelsvindicated.
Gavin Stern
Alum

ALEX SCHIFF I

Socialism -the new s' word

0

Over the past year, "socialism" has become the new
political buzzword. It inspires even more red-faced,
drooling fits of rage on the right wing than abortion does,'
and our national discourse has been completely hijacked
by demagogues screaming the new "s" word.
On Wednesday, I read Vincent Patsy's column which
warned of all the "socialism" brewing in America (The
Price of Socialism, 11/11/2009). Patsy rightly points out
that true socialism occurs when the state owns and con-
trols the means of production, but I have yet to hear a real,'
unexaggerated example of this occurring within Ameri-
can borders. The column lumps together all government
action as an evil, distortive and brutal force.
Free markets do a lot of good. They allocate resources
and set prices in a far more effective and rational manner
than command economies. But it astounds me that people
believe that any and all forms of government action are
"socialist" and evil. The Food and Drug Administration
is a form of "government intervention" in the economy
that keeps consumers safe from dangerous products. Free
market purists try to make the case that the market would
be better than regulators at protecting consumers - but
how can that be when the goal of a firm is only to maxi-
mize its profit? We wouldn't even know about the major-
ity of the deplorable practices government inspections
uncover if it weren't for the FDA. But the magic of the
market will protect us from cyanide found in our fruit,
right?
In 1999, Congress decided to follow the "unfettered
market" dogma of the time and repealed the Glass-Steagall
Act of 1933. This law separated banks that take deposits
from consumers from those that traded financial instru-
ments like credit-default swaps and collateralized debt
obligations. For 66 years, the U.S. benefited from a rela-
tively stable commercial banking industry. The money you
put in your checking account was not leveraged for invest-
ments in risky assets in order to please shareholders. Since
t99, that evil "government intervention" safeguard has
been removed, and the economy nearly collapsed in the
fall of 2007. There were many factors involved, but had we
recognized the limitations of free markets, Citigroup and
Bank of America would never have been allowe to touch

the toxic assets referred to so often in the media.
The new "s" word recently sprung up most violently in
response to Obama's "socialist" health care reform plan.
Town hall meetings that were supposed to give citizens a
chance to be*heard became forums for rhetorical lunacy.
"Keep your government hands off my Medicare!" was my
personal favorite. According to a Public Policy Polling
survey conducted in August, 39 percent of those polled
said "the government should stay out of Medicare." Thir-
ty-nine percent of Americans think the single largest gov-
ernment program in the country shouldn't be ruined by
government.involvement. What?
If -you're going to debate public policy, at least know
what you're talking about. Socialism is not what happens
every time the government intervenes in order to protect
consumers or stabilize the economy. You can disagree
with the bailouts or health care reform for very sound
economic reasons, but the argument that the govern-
ment is engaged in a deliberate campaign to take over
the economy one industry at a time is ridiculous. This
country has had an irrational history of fear of socialism
stretching back to the beginning of the 20th century, and
it is time for us to eradicate idiocy from the political dia-
logue. Obama has been branded a socialist, a communist
and even a fascist in the same breath. And yet all these
ideologies conflict.
America is changing. It is finally starting to fulfill its
promise of opportunity for everyone, not just rich white
men. The political right is afraid of losing its terror grip
on Middle America and will say whatever sticks to make
people afraid of a progressive agenda. This is about fear of
change, and conservatism, by its very definition, is aver-
sion to change. The only thing self-proclaimed conserva-
tives seem to stand for is the reluctance to embrace the
change that occurs with the march of time.
Dear readers, if someone tries to tell you that we're on
the way to becoming the Soviet Union, kindly smack them
upside the head and explain to them that sometimes it is
necessary for the government to reinforce, not eliminate,
markets in order to save capitalism from itself.
Alex Schiff is an LSA freshman.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 17, 2009 - 5

All's humanity
Rapper Brother Ali brings his body else ... and stay tied in to the family aspect," Ali
notes.
uplifting hip hop to the Blind Pig Now nearing the end of his Fresh Air tour, Ali has
spent the last few months on the road with label-
By SHARON JACOBS mates Toki Wright, Evidence and BK-One, so one
DailyArts Writer can imagine he's pretty keyed in to that "family
aspect."
"It's really about showcasing or spotlighting Ali speaks in a thick, melodic tone that could
people's greatness in spite of every- easily have led him into preaching if the rap career
thing that's fucked up," says rap- hadn't taken off. But after releasing four LPs to
per Brother Ali of his music. When much acclaim from critics and audiences alike, Ali
Ali takes the stage at the Blind Pig At the is living the good life and isn't likely to turn it in any
tonight, concertgoers can expect to Blind Pig time soon.
hear rhymes evoking a basic sense of Tonight at Religion is one of two sticky issues for Ali, who
human triumph over adversity. 9:30 p.m. converted to Islam as a young man in Minnesota.
With songs that tackle tough Tickets $15 The other is race. Brother Ali has albinism - and in
issues like homelessness and drug a genre so heavily dominated by race relations, his
abuse, Brother Ali doesn't like the racial identity is always a focal point.
oft-used term "positive" in reference to his style. But "I've been touring professionally, full-time,
his ultimately hopeful message makes Ali one of the since 2002, and that's still in the first paragraph of
more uplifting messengers from the underground every article that's written about me," Ali points
rap world. out. "He's a Muslim and he's albino, Jesus Christ!
Ali's latest release Us explores themes of connec- ... There's obviously so much more to the story than
tion and shared humanity with stories from his own that."
life as well as those from people close to him. Ali isn't mad, but he does seem tired of the brou-
"If your mother has cancer, you don't have can- haha over his condition. And really, his unique back-
cer but you live with-that cancer too, 'cause you go ground is only important in its effect on the way he
through it with (her)," Ali explains regarding Us. "I sees the world. Ali has said that, growing up, he felt
was wondering if I could channel the stories of the more at home among non-whites. Perhaps his songs
people around me in that same way, and talk about are all-encompassing because of this - "The Travel-
my relationships with people in different situations, ers," for instance, comments on slavery's effects on
and hope that the listener feels connected to them everyone involved, black and white.
as well." "It's the way that I've always seen it, just by being
The subjects Brother Ali explores on Us run the close to both sides," Ali says of the track. "Everybody
gamut from annoying neighbors to sexual abuse, involved in a terrible crime like (slavery) is affect-
with time left over for some lines proving his "Bad ed... (and) we've never examined it in a comprehen-
Mufucker" status. sive way."
And his themes of shared experiences and com- That may be so, but Brother Ali's message-driven
munity persist outside the studio - Ali records on music delves into that conversation and many oth-
the Rhymesayers label along with the group Atmo- ers. His personal, spiritual vibe may not leave audi-
sphere, whose producer Ant collaborates in writing ences feeling "positive" per se. But it's hard not to
Ali's music. be impressed by the doctrine of human "greatness"
"(Of the Rhymesayers crew) I've seen the most - the amazing ability to survive and connect - that
success in the artists that really stay close to every- Ali preaches.
Inspiration: Devendra's perspective

A moment in thyme

his past weekend I went
to New York City for 36
hours for a museum stud-
ies class. While I was there I ate at
Lombardi's, the
self-proclaimed
"first pizzeria in
America," and
tried the white
pizza, which
was sauce-less,
dotted with
giant florettes 'WHITNEY
of ricotta and POW
drizzled with
garlic-infused olive oil. I ate soft
pine-nut-studded pignoli and tri-
colored, chocolate-lined rainbow
cookies at Ferrara, a patisserie
in Little Italy. I ate French toast-
flavored rice pudding from retro-
looking space-saucer-like bowls at
Rice to Riches, a rice pudding shop
on Spring Street.
And while the city itself could
be described in so many ways -
through buildings on the skyline,
Broadway musicals the Museum
Mile and endless stretches of side-
walk - I think food is one of the
most important elements of place
and experience. It's unsurprising
that Marcel Proust had one, then
two, then three bites of a but-
tery madeleine teacake, and was
immediately transported to a very
specific moment on a Sunday in
Combray, watching his aunt dip
the cake into her tea. It's simi-
larly unsurprising that the taste of
sticky rice or spaghetti can trans-
port you to-10 years ago when - a
few states away, two feet shorter
and 100 pounds lighter - you were
struggling to look over the coun-
tertop to peek at something sim-
mering on the stove.
I believe in the importance of
food as something more than the
experience of satiating one's stom-
ach, but as something that carefully
constructs our conceptions of self.
There's a reason whythere is still a
hefty allowance of articles devoted
to The New York Times's "Dining
and Wine" section. And there's a
reason why the artsy, literary New
Yorker makes room for articles like

Adam G
cookbo
point, a
traveler
ing and
mouthf
notewoi
by Zaga
to be he
familial
Fortm
ated wi
couture
it is cen
humidk
.smell of
chicken
fish ma:
crab sit
inevitat
where 1
yellow-
window
Thec
like the
tonese r
and the
bardi'sj
fresh ba
cetta. A
matelyc
and stor
Lc
def
tableclo
are reit
slice ofI
and sou
Taste
vocabul
which v
where t
complet
toes an
remind
raging I
nies tol
tracks a
milksha
remind
hole-in-
restaur
chicken

iopnik's recent paean to turned translucent from soaking
oks. Food is a cultural touch up the oil on my fingers. Steamed
relevant mile marker for lobster with no butter reminds me
s, a thing that, while fleet- of Maine's seaside towns, overcast
transient in experience (a and gray, where I was cell phone-
ul lasts only so long), is still less and quickly speaking on pay
rthy enough to be critiqued telephones while worriedly check-
t and still intimate enough ing my pockets for extra quarters.
d sacred as a personal or We have a version of the Proust-
experience. ian madeleine we carry with us,
ne, New York is not associ- where even a Chicago deep-dish
th Times Square or haute pizza can bring about memories of
, but instead with home - last spring or a decade ago. Food
tered on my grandmother's brings about anecdotes and sto-
kitchen filled with the ries - it's a means with which we
f gas stoves and simmering express ourselves, a jumping-off
soups, on sour-smelling point for communicating what is
rkets where jittery frogs or important to us. And, while our
in tubs, waiting for their memories are multi-faceted, ethe-
ble demise, on Italian shops real things that are easily forgot-
0-pound hunks of hard, ten on the tips of tongues, in some
rinded cheese hang at the strange way, food can revive these
V. parts of ourselves, give voice to the
city is made of tastes for me, no-longer-existing five-year-old in
sweet, burnt edges of Can- us who loved macaroni and cheese
'oast pork tasting of umami or bring back the presence of a
thin, chewy crust of Lom- grandfather who has passed away.
pizza coated with cheese, In the delicacy of food and its
sil and thinly-sliced pan- subtle hints of herbs, meats and
ll of these foods are inti- spices lies something incredibly
connected with memories substantial. As Proust wrote in "In
ries where vivid, checkered Search of Lost Time": "After the
people are dead, after the things
are broken and scattered, taste and
ocations are smell alone ... bear unflinchingly,
in the tiny and almost impalpable
ined by food. drop of their essence, the vast
structure of recollection."
Food is important to the way
'ths and table conversations we view ourselves and the way
erated in my mind with a we view the places we inhabit and
pizza or a bowl of noodles have inhabited. Like keepsake
p. photographs, handwritten notes
opens up an entire and certain films, it reminds us of
ary of experience through things that exist now in memory
ye can communicate, alone, bringing back what has
hyme or garlic can conjure been forgotten or pushed to the
te moments. Roasted toma- back of our minds. Food tells us
d fresh pickled cucumbers stories, and through the memento
me of Kentucky and its of food, we tell ours - it is a means
heat and howI placed pen- through which we communicate,
be smashed on the railroad an element of identity we hold
fter a belly full of Sonic close to ourselves, just as much as
kes. Fried green tomatoes we hold loved ones close.

By JASMINE ZHU
Daily Arts Writer
When n spoke WihfleeD6en-
dra Banhat, he
was in front ' of
a kitchen table Dweflda
in Los Angeles Banfhart
while Rodrigo
Amarante of At The Ark
Little Joy fame Tonight at8 p.m.
played guitar in Sold Out
the background.
Banhart was in the process of
getting ready to go on tour to pro-
mote his new album, What Will
We Be. He'll be playing at The Ark
tonight at 8 p.m.
"I'm not too shabby," Banhart
said in his phone interview. "I'm
not as happy as a clam, but I can't
complain."
To mentally prepare himself, he
recites poetry.
"Let me quote a poem by Nanao
Sakaki. It's called 'Please,' " he
said. "'Sing a song, or laugh, or cry,
or go away.' "
"I've been just kind of repeat-
ing that poem over and over again
in my head. That's been really
helpful, it's been really fun," he
told me.
He lets me in on a secret.
"A piece of music trivid is that
the cover of (Little Joy's) record,
with the woman falling into the
water - that's my mother. I'm
happy to tell you that little secret."
Devendra Banhart has always
seemed like he's been full of
secrets. He talks in riddles and
half-truths. Sometimes, it's dif-
ficult to tell whether or not he's
serious.
Sometimes, however, it's
patently obvious that he's not.
"I also have a project with Fab
(Fabrizio Moretti, of The Strokes
and Little Joy) where we just make
extreme colognes," he says in all
earnestness. "The first one we're
making is called 'Ninja Smell."'
Another, more likely collabora-
tion is "Megapuss," Banhart's proj-
ect with Moretti and Greg Rogove.
"We have songs that don't fit
into each other's respective bands,
and the last project, which was
called 'Mayor Prints,' was really
kind of an experiment and kind
of a big embarrassment," Banhart
said. "This time we're trying to
make songs that aren't trying to
be jokes. It's nice to have a serious
project."
Banhart has a predilection
for going off on wild, unbeliev-
able tangents. He says he collects
ranch dressing from all over the
world, and claims to wantto direct
a documentary about old people
in cocoons, in swimming pools -
he regrets that he can't, because
someone else came up with it first.
He seems extremely eager to talk
about music, so long as it's not his
own.
"I just want to make mum

music," he said off-handedly.
"Mums are our demographic, you
know."
Banhart, who's been tpuring
and recording regularly since
2002, says that the moms of the
world also get to decide how long
he'll record music and go ontour.
He shows clear disdain for the
"freak-folk" label he's been tagged
with.
"Call it star revival, call it funky
junk ... just don't use that nomen-
clature," Banhart said. "I don't
think anyone that's ever been
called that has called themselves
that."
Banhart's current playlist is
extensive. He rattles off a list of
Star revival and.
funky junk.
artists that you might expect -
Dirty Projectors, Grizzly Bear,
Fleet Foxes - and then he tosses
in some more unexpected names,
just for good measure.
"I like The-Dream and Mariah

Carey a lot," he claimed. "I fuck-
ing loooove T-Pain." He drew out
"love" so that it sounded like a ten-
syllable word.
He seemed uneasy about talk-,
ing about his own work. His voice
quieted, and for once, he wasn't
the flippant, creative. jokester he
had been throughout the entire
interview.
"I still haven't figured out how
to write music. I'm still trying to
figure out how to tune a guitar.
Working on that one octave. Work-
ing on that scale until it turns into
a mode," he said.
"I don't really know what I'm
doing, and I don't really know how
that stuff happens," he added. "It's
just very painful whatever it is."
"It's just very painful," he said
again.
As a final question, I asked him
what his idea of the perfect date
would be.
His voice shifted, brightening,
and suddenly he played the role of
the effervescent hooligan again.
"Two people, one fat suit, eight
horse tranquilizers and 'Twister.'
Of course."
Of course.

me of Tennessee and the
the-wall, cement-floored
ant that served fried
with cocktail napkins that

Pow is recording a song called
"Ode to Soy." To hear the demo,
e-mail her at poww@umich.edu.

University of Michigan's
LargestRELH
Selection of REALTY
Units Avaiable forImmediate Occupancy
Off -Cam pus Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to14 bedrooms
gous 6le Church St 7341 955-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

eM0

Tuesday, November 17, 2009
8:00 pm
Natural Science Auditorium
UACef ficRo4ai te

LRik
c :

ARRIVE EARLY? SEATING IS FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED?


6- Tuesday, November 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOR SALE
GOBBLE GOBBLE SPECIAL
Scio Farms of Sun Homes has a great 2
bed 2 bath home for sale at only $699
per month, for 3 years. Financing avail-
able, Ann Arbor Schools, Call today
this one won't last
888-883-7083 www.sciofarms.com
PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus. near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmnspropqsbcglobalnet
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
FUrn, high ceilings, hardwood Ofrs.
deck oftf back. on site parking, heat &
water ml. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. wwW.tjucamtspuslhohsitg.coM
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for nest year - NO MONEY
DOWN till 2010. Sign by Nov. 25. All-
new, furnished, 2 blocks from Central
Campus. all utilities included, per-per-
son contracts. 734-998-4400.
www.4elevenlofts.com
6 LARGE bedrooms. 1205 E. Uni-
versity, Fall 2010. 3 full baths, large
common root. Furnished, free
prkg/ldry, dwshr, $3650. 248-374-1688.
! 6-8 Bedroom Large Houses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Furn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Htardwood
Pls, open basesnent fenced in yards.
Peppers Protpertirs. 511-2-11-0229.
wwW.LlimicamiipLIstoLtsillg.cOm
CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautiffully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
BEAUTIFUL HOMES !
6 and 7 bedrootss Near Campus. 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylavtaumich.edu,
wws.nancylat.com
AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
1225 White-6 bdrmt
1133 White-7 bdrm
734-564-2125
www.keysmanagemsent.net
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.

Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink with
any new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1,2 & 3 BEDROOMS
CHEAPERAND MUCH
BETTER THAN THEDORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO GROWUP.
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS- MICOM
-Univer-ity-
AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
713 Church- 3 bedroom house
Across from East Quad- near B School
2 kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, laun-
dry, on site prkg. Avail as furn./unfurn.
no pets, no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-
1244 or cimgtllc tyahoo.com
www.clhurclsstreetrentals.com
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautifstl, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfhbrnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc~///yalhoo.com
www.clhttrchstreetrentals.com
!! CAMPUS FALL 2010. Large 6
bdrtml. Isse. Walnut St., near mudbowl.
Prkg. for 6 cars, easy in/easy out.
Furn., ldry., 2 baths., central air. All
new!! $3700/mo. Call 426 4772 ask
for JAn.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs. modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!* NOW Leasing FOR 20100!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.

JOIN US FOR AN
OPEN HOUSE EVENT!
WEDNESDAY 9-5
NOVEMBER 18, 2009
AT
THE
I. COURTYARDS.
S T U D E N T A PA RT M EN T S
LEASE SPECIALS
ALL DAY LONG!
CHANCE TO WIN $500
PLUS MORE!
2 1-4 bedroo apts.
Starting at $699
FREE satellite TV
FREE high speed internet
73-03771orn3447655.
All utilities included -
Fully Furnished ,
rn-rUnit Washer/Dryer
1780 Broadway (734) 994-6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
$ NOW AVAILABLE $N
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.m
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
***3 BDRM TRI-L EVEL*** avail.
May. Hlardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300-
www.annarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC L.ittle. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www annarborapartments.net
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
StuCio & 1
Bdrm. Uni ts
Tower Plaza Condominium
734-663-1530
*CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen. Must seel (313) 215-8115.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheaper and
MUCH Better than the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-'
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appo.nments.
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com

CZ #
Owed and 0
20 Locations to ServeYobu
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.74 1.*9300
www.annarborapartments.net
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 far a tour or email
ctrabandg/archrealtyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedrooni house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, ftll basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
12 BEDROOMS + Study Unique early
1900's old Ann Arbor Mansion located
I block from campus near S. Division
and E. William. Furnished, Hardwood
Floors, Parking, Laundry, and extra spa-
cious living and Dining rooms. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctrabandp/archrealtyco.com.

s TU r i -, H 0 b '4 G , I N
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*'aies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr/dryr. No coin laundry, front/
back porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE 1 block from
Rackham, 2 blocks from the Medical
Center, Great for Nursing Stdeuts!
Furnished house with 2 kitchens, 4
bathrooms, Dishwasher, and parking.
Located near E. Ann and Ingalls. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctraband@archrealtyco.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptner@comcast.net
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrn with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.con, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask'for Pat. 6634101.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
1 734-663-5609
AUGUST 2010 IS almost here- do you
know where you're going to live? 807
S. Main 3 bedroom house.
I and 2 bedroom apartments! Don't
wait, check out our websie today
www.issaproperties.com or call us at
734-662-4446.
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313.S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email 1ouisbreskman5yahoo.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL 91/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion, 6+ bdrm. hse Gaalltin Realry Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/ndry, by Yost Arena, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc@comcast.net

wwwvarsitymanagenient.coni
varsity
Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
*NOW RENTING
NOW SCHEDULING
APPOINTMENTS
Call toschedule your tours!
Studios- 4Bedroom apartments

('4 smcian Baily
vRvSENTS THE
Online (Ulasfie4
AentalMap
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

0

r _.___ _-__ h _ _ _ _ -

7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
3 Bedrooms Available
From $799
Call Sun Homes at 888-993-6851 A
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED -EA
r , = vwww.sciofarms.com Doer Expires
11000 Now Leasing
0%4^#^21

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Harness lead 50"1l see gou inmy
1Sirs' counterpas 1 Enerystreet 38.Cried dreams"girl of
6"Fernando" 2 Prefix with bat or 41 Philly cager song
singers phobia 42 1979 meltdown 53 Should that be
10 Endure 3 Obsessed site, briefly the case
14 Have _ on ones fictional whaler 43 Like the Piper's 54 When repeated,
shoulder 4 Revealing skirt clothes Mork's sign-off
15 Defeat soundly 5 Urn taps 44 Drank on credit 58 FBI agent
16 Sailor's patron 8 ine counselto 48 kike man atux 5Grnd in scope
saint 7 Highlands 47 aloy's beson 57 Impulsive
17 Another namefor hillside 48 Horned safari 59 Knock
Farsi 8 61-Across NFLer beast 60 Month after
18 *Undeveloped 9 Lawyers' org. 49 Party gift Mar.
home site 10 "Here, I'll do that"
20 Slangy "Don't 11 "It's nothing!" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
lose any sleep 12 Hit; biblical-style
over it" 13 Schlepped WARMS SCO RE ASH
22Overdoiton 19Meas.ofa A R 0 A R U R K E L I K C
stage package's WALK I NGTALL MIX
23 W. Hemisphere contents E A Y A I R E
gp.grinsed to 211's nuot quitea T S PR N
defend against hurricane
communism 24 Medicinal plant P A T I E N C E 5 0 N G
24Madechangesto 25Luaumemento E X A M S A A H E D H A T
26 *1977 Triple 26Aegean and R I L E A N T E D J I V
Crownwinner Bering TSK ICEAX REGIS
31 Tell-all news 27 Militaryvet I N 0 E T A K E T H A T
story 28 Imitated
32 One just hanging 29 Ripped FAIN A SE G I M P
out 30Hillside ALGA WASON LAIR
37 Antiquing 33 Jannings of old A n L I V I N G L A R G E
substance films EMI E L E N A O N ION
38 Heartache 34 Underlying cause D0 G E D S E L B E A R D
38 Pouty expression 35 Continental
40 Evade currency xwordeditor@aot.com 11/109
43 A : valid 1 2 3 4 s o6 e 10 11 12 13
independent of_
experience, in 14 15 16
logic 178
45 '2,240-pound 1 19 19
unit 20222
47 Handyman's*
nickname 23
hi Poetic duskI
52 Windy Ciy 2 u627 28 29
airport
53 At risk 31 33134135 36
58 *Huck Finn
conveyance 3" 9
61 Neighbor of
Florida's St.414
Petersburg 44
62 Shortly, to
Shakespeare 4 49 9 -h 51
63 Vaulted church
part 52 54 55 15
64 Writer Nin1
65 Wisdom of the 58 61
elders 62IIEh64I
66 Cattle rancher's
tool 05 6 67
67 TheanswertolueI
eachstarr clue d : ,, v ru ,e a s ./
ends in a big one iMsowva,'rouoMdaSrcs, u,. 11/17/I9

Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Houses.
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
917 S. State
722 Packard
705 S. Division
7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn
12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
For details call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

Beds Location Rent
6 1029 Vaughn $4600
6 1021 Church $3900
6 541 S. Division $3500
6 930 Packard $3200
5 1101 Church $3000
4 1018 E. University $2800
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
2 & 3BDRM APARTMENTS avail-
able for Fall 2010 915/919 South Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of hloover
and south of Benjamin, across from El-
bel Field, Furnished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. I BD-$840
2BD-$1 100, 3BD-$1750, Spacious
Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2management@comcast.net
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furmshed, heat, water and park-
lug indluded. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrentalcom or call (734) 260-
7215.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg. & ]dry. 5 min. walk
to Union. $2450 + util. 734-709-5709.
FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Locaton Rent
7 510 Catherine $3700
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 605 E. Hoover $3600
- 6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 509 Sauer Ct $2000
4 809 Sybil $2240
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-199

AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4' Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/lndry, by Yost Arena, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc@comcast.net
AVAIL. NOW FOR 2010. 2 spacious
furn. 5 bdrm apts. Can be combined as
10 bdrr Ihse. Call 734-665-2723 or
visit www.ShahProperties.com
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cny, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
May 3-bed apt!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@posrealtyproperies.com
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parkitt, ad furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free prking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusreatty.com
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed 505 Sauer Ct $2340
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPOIDEINCO
(734) 995-1991
BEAUTIFUL CAMPUS 6 bdrm.
house S. Fores. All amenities: new
kitchen, fireplace, furnished, prkg., free
ldry. Fall '10 $3,300. 426-4772 ask for
Jeanie.
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
Beds Location Rent
6 1122 S. Forest $3600
6 812 McKinley $3500.
5 1120 S. Forest $3000
4 715 Catherine $2300
Copi Properties
734.663.5609

I
it

Great Campuslocations!


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

LEGISLATION
From Page 1
ren said.
"There should be equal protec-
tions for all of our citizens when
it comes to public accommoda-
tions, when it comes to employ-
ment, when it comes to housing,"
Warren said. "And the fact that
we still have some of our citizens
who are openly discriminated
against because of their appear-
ance, because of who they are or
who they love, I felt like the leg-
islature needed to take them to
address."
While similar bills have been
introduced in the legislature in
the past, this marks the first time
a bill of this kind was passed by a
committee.
The fact that the bill passed on
with a bipartisan vote, indicates
increasing acceptance of Michi-
gan citizens in expanding gay
rights in the state, Warren said.
"I think people are starting to
just become much more aware
of these issues and there is some
change I think in public percep-
tion on these issues," Warren
said. "I think we've always been
hopeful something positive could
happen, that we're starting to see
a trend here in Michigan that peo-
ple are more supportive of being
inclusive in diversity."
Warren said including sexual
orientation in the Civil Rights
Act will help Michigan to retain a
more educated and talented work-
force, improving the economic
TRIAL
From Page 1
logical Sciences Department,
followed by Christine Geddes, a
research associate in the School
of Natural Resources and Envi-
ronment.
David Masson, the attorney
representing the University,
began proceedings by questioning
Martin about McGee's past work
as a graduate student at the Uni-
versity and his involvement in the
research program. Masson asked
several questions about McGee's
numerous incomplete courses as
well as problems that allegedly
arose with McGee's involvement
on the research team.
Martin said he was concerned

condition of the state.
"We look across the country at
the cities that are doing the best
financially; the places in the coun-
try that are the strongest and it
really is conclusive that in diverse
places that have supportive poli-
cies like this," WAarren said.
She continued, "Right now
Michigan needs every advantage
as we try to rebuild our chal-
lenged economy. We need to have
every advantage that we can pos-
sibly get and to be known as a
welcoming state where you will
be treated equally and fairly is an
important thing for us to do eco-
nomically as well as morally."
The bill is likely to pass in the
Democrat-controlled House but
is not expected to be "warmly
received" by the Republican-
majority in the Senate, Rep. Mark
Meadows (D-East Lansing), chair
of the House Judiciary Commit-
tee, said.
The committee passed the bill
at a time when gay rights legis-
lation is making strides on both
the state and national level, said
Meadows, who also co-sponsored
the bill.
Last week President Barack
Obama signed a hate crimes bill
into law, and a city ordinance
banning discrimination based on
sexual orientation was passed in
Kalamazoo.
Ann Arbor already has a city
ordinance prohibiting discrimi-
nation based on sexual orienta-
tion. The University of Michigan
has a non-discrimination policy
that includes sexual orienta-
McGee wouldn't be able to suc-
cessfully continue his course-
work at the University after he
did poorly in a fundamental class
and received an incomplete in an
extensive junior-level class.
Martin oversaw McGee's
appointment to Hartman's proj-
ect, in which McGee was only
permitted to work 10 hours a
week because of the incomplete.
While testifying before the
defense, Martin said he had two
major concerns with the research
lab. The first, he said, was Hart-
man's attachment to the lab.
"I thought he was taking it
too much to heart," Martin said.
"You have to take it seriously, but
he might have been taking too
much of his own time and effort
getting this lab up and going."

tion, gender identity and gender
expression.
Meadows said while hate
crimes based on sexual orienta-
tion discrimination are infre-
quent, it is an issue that needs to
be addressed.
"These are all issues that I
think we need to put behind us,"
Meadows said. "It's a rare cir-
cumstance where we have dis-
crimination based upon this, but
when it does happen, it deserves
public attention and it deserves
a penalty, so that's what the bill
provides and it's something that I
strongly support."
Agema said he also disagrees
with Byrnes's argument that
overturning the amendment will
help the economic condition of
the state.
"I don't think this is going to
help economic development,"
Agema said. "I think it might even
hurt (it), so basically it's against
the will of the people and quite
frankly, I disagree. I don't think
we should be doing that."
Agema added that the approv-
al of a same-sex marriage law in
Michigan would threaten the tra-
ditional family structure the state
is based on.
"I'm not for destroying the
basic family unit," Agema said.
"In my opinion, the most basic
form of, like I said, government
in the state of Michigan right now
(are) states with the family unit
and I think that hurts the fam-
ily when we give credence to that
lifestyle."
In regards to the bill passed by
Martin said he was also con-
cerned with Hartman's frustra-
tion with McGee because McGee
"did not adhere to any schedule"
and Hartman "could not rely on
him."
Geddes, who worked in aca-
demic human resources, took the
stand next. She testified about a
phone call she received Feb. 20,
2008 from McGee in which he
anonymously complained about
Hartman's behavior in the lab.
Geddes said McGee called her
again on Feb. 26, 2008 to tell her
that he was terminated from his
position. At this time, he dis-
closed his and Hartman's names.
Following Geddes's testimo-
ny, McGee took the stand for a
filal time, first to answer ques-
tions issued from his own attor-

the House Judiciary Committee,
which would add sexual orienta-
tion as a protected group when it
comes to hate crimes, Agema said
hate crimes shouldn't be treated
separately from other crimes.
"There shouldn't be special
punishments or special require-
ments or whatever for a particu-
lar group because the law has to
be equal, not for special people,"
Agema said. "It's a crime no mat-
ter who you are. So to pick a par-
ticular group out, once again,
you're showing favoritism to one
over others. I don't agree with
hate crimes at all, cause I think
all crimes are hate."
Agema said he expects the bill
to pass the House but to be reject-
ed by the Senate.
Other opponents of the bill
like Gary Glenn, president of the
American Family Association
of Michigan, think the anti-dis-
crimination legislation is biased
against individuals who do not
support gay rights.
"(It) should be opposed by the
legislature because it has a proven
track record of being used for dis-
criminating against and penaliz-
ing individuals who disagree with
homosexual behavior or cross-
dressing," Glenn said.
Glenn cited various instances
of this discrimination in which an
employee was fired for expressing
opposition to same-sex couples
because of his or her own reli-
gious beliefs.
In regard to Brynes's proposal
to overturn the ban on same-sex
marriage, Glenn said the policy
ney, Christine Green. She asked
McGee questions about his poor
academic performance in order
to give McGee the opportunity to
defend himself.
In her closing argument, Green
emphasized that because McGee
alleges he was fired because he
reported a suspected violation in
the laboratory, he should be pro-
tected under the Whistleblower
Protection Act, which protects
workers who report problems in
their work environment.
Green also said that since it's
virtually impossible for McGee
to find a job without additional
schooling, this incident robbed
McGee of the potential to find a
successful career in the future.
She added thdt"MtGee applied^
to almost 30, engineering firms,

pitch is nothing but "good politi-
cal theatre" and it is unlikely to
come up for a vote in the House.
The proposal, which would
have to pass by two-thirds of the
House and Senate, would then
have to be voted on in a general
election to be enacted into law.
Glenn said it is unlikely that legis-
lators would be willing to vote on
a bill of that nature so close to the
upcoming 2010 election.
But Jay Kaplan, LGBT legal
project staff attorney for the
American Civil Liberties Union of
Michigan, said the proposal needs
to be passed to expand gay rights
in the state, which are among the
worst in the country.
"(The 2004 amendment has)
been interpreted by the Supreme
Court as taking everything off
the table for gay couples," Kaplan
said. "It is one of the broadest of
the so-called marriage amend-
ments in the country. We're one
of the five worst states with our
amendments."
It might be difficult to get the
proposal passed next year, Kaplan
said, because Michigan legislators
and citizens need to be educated
on the issue of same-sex marriage
first.
The 2004 amendment also
prevents same-sex couples from
accessing domestic partner ben-
efits including health care, which
greatly restricts equal rights in
the state, according to Warren,
who also co-signed the bill.
Byrnes said although current
lawmakers are more forward-
thinking than the legislature that
none of which have yet replied to
his application.
"He has lost the career he
wanted to have," Green said.
"He's 54 years old now and has to
change course completely." -
Masson then made his closing
argument. He first focused on
the quality of McGee's work in
the lab and his inability to meet
various deadlines set by Hart-
man.
Masson also asserted that
Hartman had already made the
decision to fire McGee long
before he discovered McGee had
reported the safety issues. Mas-
son said McGee was fired not
because of the complaints he
made, but because of his continu-
ous problems and lack of ability,
to meet deadlines in the work-

Tuesday, November 17, 2009 - 7
passed the 2004 amendment, it
will still be a challenge to pass
the proposal through the House
because it requires the two-thirds
vote to pass.
"I think we have a different
legislature now than there was
five years ago," Byrnes said. "I
think it tends to be somewhat
more progressive. I know that
it will be a challenge ...but that
doesn't mean it shouldn't be
brought to the attention of the
legislature."
Warren said it's more likely that
the Civil Rights Act bill will pass
this year than the same-sex mar-
riage amendment as the amend-
ment requires two-thirds of the
vote in the legislature while pass-
ing the act only requires a major-
ity of the vote.
But despite the uphill battle,
Kaplan said the update to the
Elliot-Larsen Civil Rights Act is
also necessary to allow gay indi-
viduals the same rights as all citi-
zens.
Currently under state law, it
is legal to fire someone or refuse
to provide services to someone
because they are gay, bisexual or
transgender, according to Kaplan,
who has heard from many LGBT
individuals who have experienced
this discrimination.
"It would under civil rights
laws change discrimination on
the basis of sexual orientation
and gender identity," Kaplan said.
"These categories are not covered
in our state ... Discrimination is
legal in Michigan. It's absolutely
essential. We need this."
place.
In one of the final comments of
the day, Green used her rebuttal
to explain the strength McGee
demonstrated throughout the
trial.
"I think he is an individual who
has been through a lot of hurdles
and who can make it again," said
Green. "He was there in the pro-
gram and built the lab, that in all
probability no graduate student
should have been responsible
for."
She said the lab was such a big
project and that in order to suc-
ceed with it, McGee at times had
to sacrifice his grades.
The jury is scheduled to return
to court to deliberate and decide
on a verdict in the case-at 9 a.m.
this morning.

Beds Location
6 1121 Church
6 423 Hamilton PI #1
6 543 S. Division #2
6 1221 S. State #2
5 1117 Church #1
5 429 S. Division #2

Rent
$3500
$3100
$3000
$2500
$3000
$3000

NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http.//www.campusrealty.com

ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
TRANSFER OF LEASE
November '09 - June '10 -
3 Bdrm Northwood IV House 1312
Vacant from 11/4/09
Excellent Location in lot 47, close to
school bus stop and community center,
excellent school district & remodeled
batbroom.
Please email jrajiv@med.umich.edu
or call 734-565-8747.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768.
WINTER SEMESTER RENTAL:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, furnished option. Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit
wwwissaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

Copi Properties
734.663.5609
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
EAST U & Vaughn. 5 bdrm for 6. Lrg
bdrms, very nice condition. Furn, free
ldry + prkg for 4 cars. Easy in/out.
$2750. 734-426-4772.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland,can
accomodate up to 20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FALL '10 HUGE 5 bdrm house for 6.
Furnished, 3 full bthrm, 3 kitchen, Idry,
prkg, close to campus. (734) 272-1320.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
8 bdrm houses at 806 Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 bdrm houses at 217 N.
Thayer & 912 Sybil. 1, 2, 3 bdrm apts
on central campus. 734-769-7025,
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-4772.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Or. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,Wshr/Dyr, $950/mo.,
all appliances, water included. Call 734-
395-5288. Pfkiani@gmail.com
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net

NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-ingarage. Cathedralceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gunnerbt7@aol.com
NOW LEASING 2010-11 SUBLETS
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
761-8000 THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
www.primesh.com to stay with your friends for the week-
Call today to see your new Home! end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. CaJI 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
MANUFACTURER'S REP
171 yr. old lubrication company
needs straight commission
experienced closer to take over
profitable territory near Ann Arbor.
Industrial, agricultural,
commercial accounts.
Must be able to start immediately.
Call Rich Ellis at
800-432-1645
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477. www.earnparttime.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
STUDENTS -PARTICULARLY
African American and other minorities-
wanted to complete a brief survey
about race, trust, age and clinical re-
search. 15 min max! Goto:
http://tiny.cc/jQAAV to provide
your input! (EMU CHHS 09-054).
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email
your course listing and a brief descrip-
tion about yourself to
umich@sharenotes.com START
EARNING TODAY!

Efficiencies:
726 5. State
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
8 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 5. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320S. University
4 Bedroom:
720 S. State
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
(0 Atmost locations)

suredt service rents out houses anda
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketballoweekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

For Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Travel plans might be canceled or
delayed today. Furthermore, anything
having to do with higher education, pub-
lishing, the media, medicine or the law
could be suddenly sidetracked. Big
oops!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Be very careful about other people's
wealth and possessions today, especially
if you're responsible for what other peo-
ple own. Some kind of untoward acci-
dent or theft could take place!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Relationships with partners and close
friends are a bit dicey today. Either part-
ner (this includes you) could suddenly
explode or rebel about something. Yikes!
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Computer crashes, power outages, fire
drills, canceled appointments and staff
shortages are some reasons this day
could go south in a New York minute. Be
on guard for sudden changes!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Parents should be extra vigilant about
their children today. Lovers should be
extra patient with each other. Vacation
plans might be canceled. Sports acci-
dents are likely. (It's that kinda day.)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Unexpected events might take place at
horne today. For starters, expected com-
pany might not show. On the other hand,
someone completely unexpected could
knock on your door!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 toOct.22)
This is a mildly accident-prone day.
Therefore, slow down and take extra
time with everything you do. Don't push
the river.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Financial matters are unpredictable
today. You might find money;*youmight
lose money. You might break something
you own. Be careful.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You might be quite obsessed with
something that's unusual or unconven-
tional today. If you don't have the free-
dom to pursue what interests you, you'll
be annoyed!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You feel restless today. You have that
feeling that you're waiting for the other
shoe to drop. (Let's hope it's the same
size as the last one, then you'll have a
pair.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 201to Feb. 18)
People are extremely independent
today. This is why you can expect a few
surprises when dealimg with others,
especially female acquaintances.
Someone might bite your head off.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You feel unusually rebellious in your
relations with authority figures.-
bosses, parents, teachers. VIPs and the
police. It might be wise to zip your lip.
Better to be safe than sorry.
YOU BORN TODAY You are
assured, charming, generous and force-
ful. You have a sharp intellect, a won-
derful imagination and excellent net-
working skills. You understand what
motivates people. You're also a skilled
debater because you have strong convic-
tions and can think on your feet. After
working to make a name for yourself, in
your later years, you becotne quite
humanitarian. A major change awaits
you in the year ahead.
Birthdate of: Margaret Atwood,
author; Oscar Nnfez, actor/comedian;
Rita Cosby, journalist.

ATTN: GRADUATING SENIORS
U-M's Center for Research on Learning
and Teaching seeks full-time, year-
round Program Assistant for event
planning and support. Must be depend-
able, detail-oriented, organized, and
possess great communication skills.
Dec 1 start (neg.). Starting salary in
high twenties, full benefits. Submit
cover letter and resume in single elec-
tronic file to JOB ID 35881 at
www.umich.edu/-jobs/ . The Univer-
sity of Michigan is an Equal Opportuni-
ty/Affirmative Action Employer.

EXPERIENCED DRIVER WITH
good driving record needed to pick and
drop two kids from St. Francis school.
Please call for more info 313-399-0652.
NANNY NEEDED FROM 1-5 p.m.
M-F starting in January. Transporta-
tion required. E-mail resumes to
mpecinai@gmail.com

f 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

4


8 - Tuesday, November 17, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Boren's Big House return M' dumps Eagles*

won't be a warm welcome

ByANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
Neat piles of equipment line the
perimeter of the Michigan foot-
ball team's practice field, ready at a
moment's notice. There are block-
ing sleds, orange cones and vari-
ous pads used throughout different
drills. Nothing out of the ordinary.
But if you take a closer look at the
sticker on the red tackling dum-
mies placed strategically around
the field, there is one thing you
might not expect - a giant Ohio
State logo.
Brandon Graham, who will play
in his final game at Michigan Sta-
dium on Saturday, said the Wol-
verines will smack the red pads a
little harder this week in practice.
Listening to the senior speak about
the Michigan-Ohio State rivalry -
he came close to tears at yesterday's
press conference - it's crystal clear
that the defensive end is getting
psyched for Saturday.
But you get the feeling this one
may be a little more personal.
When asked if he would ever let his
future children go to Ohio State, he
had this to say:
"I couldn't do that. I'm not Jus-
tin Boren."
Boren leftthe Michigan program
before the 2008 season, shortly
after the hiring of coach Rich
Rodriguez. He did the unthinkable,
the unprecedented - he jumped to
the other side of the greatest rivalry
in college football history. Because
of NCAA regulations, Boren had
to sit out last season, meaning this
will be his first appearance in The
Game from the Buckeye sideline.
Upon leaving Ann Arbor, Boren
infamously said the program's
"family values have eroded." The
harsh words came as a shock to
Michigan fans everywhere, who
were used to the squeaky clean tra-
dition of the Bo Schembecbler era.
"I don't know if it does much
good to go back in the past," Rodri-
guez said yesterday when asked

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sparta Writer
Traditionally, the Michigan pep
band blasts "The Victors" in Crisler
Arenaas cheerleaders stream out of
the tunnel holding block 'M' flags,
just ahead of the Michigan women's
basketball team.
But yesterday, the fight song
played as Michigan cheerleaders
mistak-
enly led MICHIGAN 67J
the blue- MARQUETTE 50
and-gold
Marquette Golden Eagles out onto
the floor.
The botched entrance proved an
ominous sign for the Wolverines,
as the offense slumped through a
20-point first half. But Michigan
(2-0) bounced back from a six-point
halftime deficit to win 67-50.
In the first half, the Wolverines
had 16 turnovers and shot 8-of-25
from the field against an aggres-
sive Marquette (1-1).defense. That
physicality prevented Michigan
from moving the ball and getting
open looks.
"It's Marquette," junior guard
Veronica Hicks said. "They're a big-
name school just like us. They're in
the Big East. ... And this game was
nothinglikethefirstgameweplayed
against Ball State. We had a lot more
energy coming out that game, more
excitement, we were amped."
Hicks, the only regular return-
ing starter on a squad with six
freshmen, built momentum with a

buzzer beater before halftime.
Returning to the floor, the band,
cheerleaders and teamwere on cue.
And as their entrance routine
righted itself, so did Michigan's
shooting touch.
On Thursday against Ball State,
Michigan shot just under 54 per-
cent from downtown and scored
more points (87) than they did in
any game last season. Against Mar-
quette, Michigan's stroke returned
in the second half, as the team
caught fire from the three-point
line and hit just under 58 percent.
Sophomore forward Carmen
Reynolds' third triple gave the Wol- 0
verines their first lead of the game
with just under 11 minutes to go.
Marquette regained the lead on the
next possession before freshman
guard Dayeesha Hollins respond-
ed with a three of her own to pull
ahead again.
Michigan didn't surrender the
lead the restofthegame.
TheWolverineshavenowdefeat-
ed two teams that played into the
postseason last year. The wins are
important for a program that won
just 10 games last season and was
picked to finish last in the Big Ten
by both the mediaand coaches.
When asked if the team's early
success is surprising, redshirt
senior forward Ashley Jones didn't
hesitate.
"No, not at all," she said. "I think
that our team is really good and
we're going to make a lot of noise
this year."

PHOTOCOURTESYbOF
Ohio State lineman Justin Boren transferred from Mich igan shortly af ter Rich Rodriguez came to An n Ar bor.

about Boren. "I've said several
times before that we pride our-
selves on the closeness that we
have as a family. ... I think if you
asked our players, the large major-
ity, if not all of them, would tell you
they feel that sense of closeness
amongst each other, amongst the
staff. They sense that atmosphere,
a family atmosphere, that perme-
ates throughout the program."
Graham said Boren's comments
didn't surprise him, because the
talented offensive lineman had
"distanced himself" in the weeks
after Rodriguez's hire. Boren
struggled to adjust from former
coach Lloyd Carr to Rodriguez, and
it soon became apparent that he
wouldn't be with the Wolverines
much longer.
"He just didn't feel likeheneeded
to be here no more," Graham said.
"A lot of people leave because it's

their situation. I just like splashing
it up because he went to 0-State.
He could have went anywhere else,
but he went to Ohio State."
"It was like a slap in the face."
And you can bet that Graham
won't hold back his sentiments this
weekend. After the Wolverines
lost to Wisconsin, Badger tight end
Lance Kendricks said Graham was
a big trash-talker on the field. Sure-
ly, Boren will be getting an earful
Saturday.
"I've got a lot of words for a lot of
people," Graham said. "Whoever's
in my way every play, I let them
know every play, 'Don't come my
way.' Some people talk back, some
people don't.... I'm just trying to get
in their head."
As much as Graham seemed hurt
by Boren's jump to scarlet-and-grey
uniforms, he laughed off the situa-
tion.

The same can't be said for offen-
sive lineman David Moosman. The
redshirt senior is usually even-
keeled and accommodating when
speaking with the media, but he
immediately clammed up at the
first mention of his ex-teammate.
"I don't talk to him, I don't think
about him," Moosman said. "He
doesn't come up in my daily life.
And I don't have to play against
him on defense. I wish I could. But
he's on offense and so am I."
With the national media already
writing off Michigan - ESPN's
Pat Forde said the Buckeyes "will
demolish Michigan" in his lat-
est column - and Boren's switch
fresh in their minds, the Wolver-
ines won't have any trouble getting
motivated.
Maybe Michigan won't even
need those red, block '0' tackling
dummies, after all.

Vogrich dead-on in
maize-&-blue debut.

-The Greatest Rivalry in Sport
Varsity upsets OSU in 'Snow Bowl'

From the Editor: We hope you're
enjoying our look back at the Dai-
ly's game coverage from famous
Michigan-Ohio State games. Here's
the story of the1950'SnowBowl.'
COLUMBUS - Michigan's relent-
less Wolverines saved the space for
anotherchapterintherags-to-riches
tale that records the activities of the
1950 Maize and Blue gridiron squad,
by beating Ohio State's Buckeyes in a
blizzard here yesterday.
By plowing through the foot of
snow which blanketed the playing
field to upset the Buckeyes, 9-3, the
Wolverines earned the right to repre-
sentthe BigTen inthe RosefBowlnext
January first. An assist on the play
was credited to the wondrous Wild-
cats of Northwestern who forced an
overconfident Illinois team to can-
cel westward travel reservations by
beatingthe Illini 14-7 in Evanston.
While the Conference Champi-
onship does not itself ensure the
Wolverines a trip to the Rose Bowl,
the official Big Ten poll Monday
which will pick the Western Con-
ference's Pasadena representative

was regarded as a mere formality.
Michigan's bigbreak came in the
waning minutes of the first half,
with the snow-covered scoreboard
reading: time to play: 47 seconds:
and the Bucks' one-man team, Vic
Janowicz, back on his own two-
yard line for a third down punt. At
that point, Wolverine linebacker
Tony Momsen crashed through
the middle of the OSU line, blocked
Janowicz' effort and fell on the ball
in the end zone to score the game's
only touchdown.
With 20 seconds remaining in the
first half, Harry Allis converted suc-
cessfully, making it 9 to 3, and end-
ing the scoring for the afternoon.
Earlier, Michigan had scored
two points on a similar blocked
punt which resulted in a safety.
... The Wolverines earned their
nine points without the aid of a sin-
gle first down and by gainingonly 27
net yards, all of them on the ground.
Ohio registered only three first
downs and 41 net yards, 25 of which
were due to Janowicz'passing.
It was a game of football in the

literal sense. Michigan's Chuck
Ortmann booting the ball 24 times
for a 30-yard average. The versatile
Janowicz handled all the punting
shores for Ohio, his kicks averaging
32 yards in the ceilingzero blizzard.
Western Conference records
were shattered by thq total of 45
punts, with Michigan tying the
previous record of most punts by a
single team - 14 - in the first half
alone.
... Especially brilliant were the
efforts of defensive ends Ozzie Clark
and Allis who consistently crashed
through the Ohio blockers to bottle
up Janowicz' running and passing.
Center Carl Kreager effectively
handled the difficult assignment of
passing the icy ball to the back field.
Michigan's six fumbles beingimuch,
less than might be expected under
such difficult playingconditions.
The Wolverines returned only
two of the Ohio punts registering a
scant eight yards on the two plays.
The pigskin was as slippery as an
ice-cube and ball-handling was
kept to a minimum.

On most occasions, both Jano-
wicz' and Ortmann's kicks came to
rest in a foot of snow without bounc-
ing a bit. They landed like horse-
shoes in a bed of soft clay, making
punt returns virtually impossible.
One of the Buckeye junior's
numerous quick-kicks came to rest
onthegoal line, aftergivingappear-
ances of heading for the end zone.
On the play, the pigskin hita mound
of snow which had been collected
by the broomtenders - who were
delegated to keep the goal-linesvis-
ible and brought frozen spectators
to their numb feet as it tottered on
the brink of the end zone.
... The big moment of the day
came with just 2:17 left in the ball
game when the public address sys-
tem announced the result of the
Illinois-Northwestern tussle. Mich-
igan fans all but held their breath for
the remainder of the contest hoping
their team could preserve its 6 point
lead for the final minutes.
The team did, and the fans hoist-
ed Al Wahl on their shoulders in
victorious salute to the team.

ByJOE STAPLETON
DailySports Writer
Since the early stages of his
recruitment, all Michigan fans
heard about Matt Vogrich was that
the kid had one of the smoothest
jump shots in the Midwest.
"Oh, he can shoot it," Zack
Novak said before the Wayne State
game. "No question about it, he
can really shoot."
On Saturday, Vogrich showed it.
The freshmanwent5-for-5 from
beyond the arc, at times stepping
back to fire from NBA range, and
finished with 15 points in Michi-
gan's 97-50 win against Northern
Michigan.
"I was just excited when I hit
the first one, justkind of relieved to
make my first shot," Vogrich said.
"Manny (Harris) found me and I
just made the open looks."
Vogrich's assault from the
3-point line began with six minutes
toplayinthe firsthalf.Injustunder
two minutes, he made three triples,
each one bringing raucous cheers
from the Maize Rage student sec-
tion. He got his last two 3-pointers
near the end of the second half, and
his last one came on Harris's triple-
double-solidifying assist.
After the freshman's unspec-
tacular performance in Michigan's
exhibition win against Wayne
State, Michigan coach John Bei-
lein said Vogrich was putting in
extra time on his shotto make sure

he was ready for the Wolverines'
first official game.
"He's really been working
extra hard on his shot over the
last week," Beilein said. "When
Manny's putting them right there,
(Vogrich) has an easy job to do, just
shoot it."
Beilein is known for recruiting
pinpoint 3-point shooters. If Vog-
rich can keep hitting allseason, he
would be able to shoulder some of
the scoring load to free up Harris
and senior DeShawn Sims.
Vogrich wasn't the only one
who provided a scoring boost.
Michigan had five players finish in
double digits: Harris, Sims, fresh-
manDariusMorris,redshirtsenior
Zack Gibson and Vogrich.
Morris said he was happy for his
fellow freshman.
"We know Vogrich can shoot,
but for anybody to go 5-for-5,
that's amazing," Morris said.
"Class of 2013, I was happy to
see my other freshman out there
doing his thing."
Gibson also had a good offensive
night, himself going 5-for-5 from
the field. Most of his points came
in the paint, but he also showed off
a midrange fallaway.
"It felt good," Gibson said.
"Everything was flowing. I made
shots. I really felt good out there."
But the focus was still on Vog-
rich's 5-for-5.
"He did a great job shooting the
ball," Gibson said.

Frosh wins tourney

No guarantees for Wolverines this season

EAST LANSING -
or nearly 20 years, the idea
of the Michigan hockey
team making the NCAA
Tournament has been taken for
granted.
The Wolver-
ines happen to R
hold the nation's RYAN
longest active KARTJE
streak of tour- On ice hockey
nament appear-
ances.
But the last time the Wolverines
held a sub-.500 record through
10 games like they do this season,
it was 1986. Michigan coach Red
Berenson had only been behind the
bench for two full seasons.
Michigan finished a dismal
14-25-1 that year. Obviously, the
Wolverines didn't make the tourna-
ment.
Today, with 10 games in the
books and the Wolverines boast-
ing a very modest 4-6 record - just
the second time that has happened
in Berenson's tenure - Michigan
hockey fans shouldn'tsgive up on
this season just yet. But a sub-500
record should alert them that ar,

NCAA Tournament berth is far
from guaranteed this season.
It's easy to point fingers. The
defense was supposed to be this
team's strong point. But on two
occasions this weekend, both of
which led to goals, Michigan defen-
semen turned the puck over in the
neutral zone and left junior goal-
tender Bryan Hogan out of position.
And then there's the power play,
where the Wolverines rank 46th
out of 58 teams in the NCAA.
Considering Berenson said that
this year's team spent more time
practicingspecial teams than any
team he's ever coached at Michigan,
that statistic has tobe a major disap-
pointment. Even Berenson called
the Wolverines' power play "one of
the weakest in the country."
But the real reason for this
team's poor play rests squarely on
the offense's shoulders. And as
much of a case you can make that
"the puck just isn't going Michi-
gan's way," nothing will change
the fact that the Wolverines have
scored just six goals in six games
against ranked opponents.
The Wolverines' tup leading

scorers from last year, forwards
Louie Caporusso and David Wohl-
berg, have managed just one goal
each this season. Through 10 games
last year, the pair had 12 combined
goals.
"I think we're just not that
good," Berenson said about the
offense. "We've got one returning
20-goal scorer (Caporusso) and he's
got one goal. Outside of that, every-
body else is doing what they can,
but we don't have a lot of prolific
offensive players."
There's no doubting that
Michigan has talent on offense,
but without someone to set up the
Wolverines' goal-scorers-- someone
in the mold of Aaron Palushaj, who
left for the NHL after last season
- scorers like Caporusso and Wohl-
berg are going to be counted on to
make their own plays.
And without a consistent offense,
the Wolverines will continue to fall
into the trap that they have found
themselves in against every upper
echelon team this year: fall behind
early and then try to claw their way
back into the game.
Thus far, it hasn't beeo a pattern

of success.
Michigan is currently 10th in the
CCHAstandings, 13 points behind
conference leader Michigan State,
which also happens to lead the con-
ference in scoring (22 goals). The
Spartans boast the NCAA's second-
leading goal-scorer in Corey Tropp
and one of the nation's top-scoring
freshmen in Derek Grant. And after
Michigan State left the ice on Sat-
urday having sweptthe Wolverines,
it's clear that they are the state's
best hockey team.
Beyond the Spartans, the CCHA
is the class of college hockey this
year, with four teams besides Mich-
igan ranked in the top 13.
That means there won't be any
red carpets rolled out for the Wol-
verines as they try to make their
way to the NCAA Tournament.
"We'll turn it around," Berenson
said. "It's just amatter of when. It's
like any team, there's going to be a
weak point in your season."
But when that weak point is the
weakest start in 20 years, it may
take more than Michigan has need-
ed in Berenson's tenure to right the
ship. V

ByKEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Writer
Sometimes, success in sports can
come down to one thing: Having
fun.
Michigan freshman wrestler
Dan Yates learned that over the
past two weeks.
After losing his first-ever career
collegiate match at last weekend's
Eastern Michigan Open, Yates real-
ized that his biggest problem wasn't
mechanics or training.
"I went out last week for the first
match and kind of took everything
too seriously," Yates said. "It didn't
end up goingwell in the first match.
Today I just came out and wanted
to have fun, relax a little bit, and not
take things so seriously."
Since his opening loss, Yates
has won 12 straight matches over
the course of two tournaments.
On Sunday, he came out relaxed
and won the 165-pound freshman/
sophomore weight class at the
annual preseason Michigan State
Open.
"He got a little too excited for
that first match and let his emo-
tions get the best of him," Michigan
coach Joe McFarland said. "I think
he was much more relaxed coming
into this tournament."
Yates defeated Kyle Yang of Ohio
University by decision (6-1) to cap-
ture thetitle.
Redshirt junior Anthonypiondo

experienced similar success at the
MSU Open.
Following a second-place fin-
ish last week at Eastern Michigan,
Biondo headed to East Lansing
lookingforatitle.Andthat'sexactly
what be got
After winning by pin in the
first three rounds of the open 197-
pound weight class, Biondo won
his final match by decision (7-6)
over Andrew Kissel of Purdue.
"He's got all the tools to suc-
ceed," McFarland said. "When he's
wrestling and scoring like he did
today, he is really tough to beat."
Biondo has emerged as a leader
for the young Wolverines, whose
lineup consists of mainly freshmen
and sophomores.
Sophomore Zak Stevens is step-
ping up as a leader this season. On
Sunday, Stevens placed third in the
open 133-pound weight class.
"Zak is a warrior on the mat, and
he just keeps getting better and bet-
ter," McFarland said. "He is going
to be a great example for the rest of
the team."
While a few growing pains are
to be expected due to the young
roster, success in these early events
certainly helps.
"We're taking some things from
these early season tournaments, but ,
we need to continue to make sure
that we're scoring earlyand scoring
often," McFarland said. "We need
to continue to get etter."


