f f

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 29, 2009

michigandaily.com

STUDYING OVERSEAS
Swine flu's
impact being
felt abroad

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman smiles with members of the leading faculty governing body in the Regents Room of the Fleming Administration Building yesterday.
Colemano State budget needs action

Students report
delays in getting
started with classes
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
LSA junior Geoffrey Baier had
planned to study Arabic while
abroad at American University in
Cairo this semester. But because
of the swine flu scare, the Egyp-
tian government asked the Uni-
versity to cancel classes for a
week - forcing Baier to pick up
the language on his own.
Baier is one of approximately
80 University students studying
abroad in more than 15 countries
through the Office of Interna-
tional Programs this fall. Though
not everyone has had classes
suspended since the HRNB virus
broke out, students studying
abroad have had to be more cau-
tious about their health and more
flexible with their schedules.
While there had been no con-
firmed cases of the H1N1 virus
on American University's cam-
pus, the school delayed the start
of classes so the university could
begin at the same time as other
universities who have postponed
classes because of the flu.
Besides the week-long suspen-
sion, the American University is
on break because of the Muslim
holiday Eid al-Fitr that started
Sept. 19. Classes are set to recon-
vene on Oct. 3, but Baier wrote in
an e-mail interview that it's pos-
sible classes will continue to be
postponed because of the flu.

"What is frustrating is the lack
of new information from the uni-
versity, there are rumors that our
break will be extended, but noth-
ing is confirmed," Baier wrote.
ButBaierdoesn'tmindtheextra
free time. The last few weeks he
has been traveling around Egypt
- snorkeling, riding camels and
climbing Mount Sinai.
In an e-mail, Baier wrote that
he will continue to explore while
officialsfigure out what to do with
his study abroad program.
"I am leaving again in a half
hour to go to Alexandria on the
Mediterranean coast and then
the Siwa Oasis in the Western
Desert," he wrote. "I might still
be able to fit in another trip after
that, we'll see."
Nicole LeBlanc, Office of Inter-
national Programs assistant direc-
tor, wrote in an e-mail interview
that-withtheexceptionof Egypt
- the office has not been informed
of any direct difficulties students
have experienced because of wor-
ries about the HBN1 virus while
studying abroad for the fall term.
"The Egyptiangovernmenthas
delayed the resumption of classes
at the American University of
Cairo following a holiday to bring
that campus calendar in line with
other university calendars who
did experience H1N-related sus-
pensions," LeBlanc wrote.
In addition to having their
classes suspended, some Univer-
sity of Michigan students have
been infected with the H1N1
virus while studying abroad.
The OIP does not know the exact
number of students who have con-
See ABROAD, Page 7A

At faculty meeting,
president also talks
rec. facilities and
upcoming speech
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily NewsEditor
Speaking before the faculty's
leading governing body yesterday,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman voiced her dissatisfaction
with the budget stalemate in Lan-
sing, her foremost concern of being
the potential end of the Michigan
Promise Scholarship.
At the meeting, Coleman

addressed a wide range of issues,
including the state budget, her
upcoming State of the University
speech, recreational facilities at the
University and the North Campus
Research Complex.
While at the meeting, Coleman
told SACUA members she has been
following the state budget closely
and has been in contact with rep-
resentatives from the University's
Office of Government Relations,
who are also monitoring the situa-
tion.
"I talked to one of our folks who
is in Lansing all the time ... and he
said it was a rough impasse between
people who want to cut, cut, cut and
have no new revenue increases to
people who are unwilling to make

the cuts and are demandingrevenue
increases leaving chasms between
these two groups" she said.
Coleman shared with faculty
members that she was disheart-
ened by the lack of progress by leg-
islators to finalize a state budget.
"I don't know what to tell you,"
Coleman said. "I am quite discour-
aged that we can't get more action
to come up with a solution."
Coleman also said she is con-
cerned about potential cuts to the
Michigan Promise Scholarship.
Even if there had to be some sort of
a cut back to the program, students
should receive at least part of their
scholarships, Coleman said, adding
that legislators made a promise to
students.

"Students have these letters
promising this scholarship," Cole-
man said.
University students with demon-
strated financial need will receive
their scholarship payment from the
University if the state discontinues
the program, though students with-
out financial need will not receive
the scholarship if the program is
canceled.
"I've been told that we have a
much higher proportion of stu-
dents who use the Michigan
Promise Scholarship than other
institutions," Coleman said. "We
just don't have the resources to take
over the entire program."
When asked for an update on the
See COLEMAN, Page 7A


UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
As society's needs shift,
'U' research responds

DEVELOPING PHOTOGRAPHS

Push for energy
independence has
reshaped projects
on campus
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Federal stimulus funding has
awarded the University $61.1
million in research grants and,
while most of it will be invested
in the biomedical sciences, energy
research is expected to see some
of its largest gains as a potential
energy crisis looms.
That shift to the energy sector
with research funds echoes a his-
toric trend at the University one in
which primary research focuses
sway with the breeze of national
trends in research and technologi-
cal needs.
About $19.5 million in addition-
al stimulus funding from the U.S.
Department of Energy has already
been applied to the creation of the
Energy Frontier Research Center
-intended to develop new mate-

rials for solar cells. And in April,
President Barack Obama called for
the creation of 46 of these energy
research centers across the nation
with the goal of reducing Ameri-
can dependency on imported oil
and greenhouse gas emissions.
University President Emeri-
tus James Duderstadt, said fed-
eral support has often been key
to the University's large shifts in
research.
Duderstadt, who is also a pro-
fessor of science and engineering,
said that increased research in
defense during the 1950s coincid-
ed with the Cold War as did space
research and astronaut training in
the 1960s for the Apollo program.
"To do the kind of research we
do, resources cannot come from
within the University, and the
state has never been particularly
generous in supporting research,"
Duderstadt said. "Most of our
research funding comes from the
federal government."
In the last 20 to 30 years, bio-
medical research has seen the
lion's share of federal funding at
the University, Duderstadtsaid. He
added that it is, therefore, no coin-
cidence that the National Science

Foundation's $6 billion budget is
only about a fifth of the National
Institutes of Health's budget.
Dennis Assanis, director of
the Michigan Memorial Phoe-
nix Energy Institute, said the
MMPEI's origin in nuclear energy
research after World War II illus-
trates, in part, the University's
tendency to follow society's tech-
nological and scientific needs. The
historical precedent in responding
to contemporary research chal-
lenges has prepared the Univer-
sity for the recent push in energy
studies, he said.
"In the past, we've launched
strong initiatives in the bioscienc-
es and health sciences," Assanis
said. "This is nothing new for us
to be able to respond to major soci-
etal changes and demands."
Assanis said the University's
energy department is among the
fastestgrowingresearchareasthat
receive federal funding. Moreover,
he said the University's rich ener-
gy portfolio has recently benefited
from the increased discussion of
sustainability in America.
"Energy is a very hot topic right
now and it seems that we are able to
See RESEARCH, Page 7A

IT company to add 1,000 jobs to area

Systems in Motion month and company officials say
they're looking to hire.
chooses Ann Arbor In opening its new support cen-
ter in the Ann Arbor area, Systems
for workforce base in Motion - a company that pro-
vides IT systems support to outside
By DYLAN CINTI organizations - will create 1,085
For the Daily jobs over the next five years for area
~- residents and college graduates.
A Sacramento-based informa- Debashish Sinha, SIM's chief
tion technology services company marketing officer, explained the
will open the doors to its new Ann company's goal is to create a cost-
Arbor location within the next efficient "in-shore" IT model that

"can compete effectively with any
Global IT Services Model."
Sinha said SIM concentrated on
large public university towns as
potential sites for the new service
center because of the advantage
such locations present.
"We looked at the availability of
resourcestotal populationand how
many people were coming out of
school with what kinds of degrees,"
Sinha said.
See NEW HIRES, Page 6A

WEATHER HI: 57 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO:35 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Granholm introduces competitive grant programs.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOG/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ... .......................... ..2A CLASSIFIEDS. .. 6A........... 6A
Vol. CXX,No.16 OPINION. .... .............. .. 4A SPORTS ..........,................. BA
'2009TheMichiganDaily ARTS.................................IA CAREER ISSUE.......... 1.........18
michigondaily.coo


4

2A - Tuesday, September 29, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
 dita r in Chief BusinessManager
734-647-3336 734-764-ea5e
graca@michsigandailyrcom tmdbsiness@gmnail.com

Starting of a research university

Anyone who has spent time
on the Hill has most likely
noticed the white dome peak-
ing out between the Alice
Lloyd and Couzens Residence
Halls. However, few probably
know they are looking at the
first ever astronomical obser-
vatory in Michigan.
The Detroit Observatory,
completed in 1854, was the
center of University President
Henry Philip Tappan's efforts
to transform the Univer-
sity into one of the country's
original research universi-
ties. According to the website
of the University Lowbrow
Astronomers, a student orga-
nization comprised of about
90 amateur astronomers, Tap-
pan had "a vision of the Uni-
versity that included not only
the traditional classical course
but also a scientific course,"
and believed astronomy to be

an integral part of this cur-
riculum.
The observatory was
named in honor of a group
of Detroit businessmen, who
proved to be the most gener-
ous donors once fundraising
efforts began. According to
Karen Wight, program coor-
dinator for the Detroit Obser-
vatory, the major motivation
behind the businessmen's
donation was their need for an
accurate time standard to gov-
ern Michigan train schedules.
An observatory would help to
create such a standard.
Tappan himself traveled to
Europe to purchase the instru-
ments for the observatory.
When he returned, however,
he was dismayed to find that
construction had begun at the
corner of Observatory Street
and Ann Street, which at the
time was a half-mile from

Central Campus. Wight said
this spot was chosen because
the real estate was "cheap and
available." As it turns out, the
unconventional location was
a good choice, as many other
universities who built obser-
vatories on their central cam-
puses ended up knocking them
down and relocating off-cam-
pus, a result of rising costs and
demand for centrally located
space.
University astronomers
continued to use the observa-
tory until the 1950s, when its
telescopes were considered
old-fashioned and the lighyt
pollution from the growing
Ann Arbor provided less than
ideal viewing conditions.
According to Wight, while
many minor discoveries had
been made at the observatory,
"1850s astronomy was not
looking to revolutionize the

world. They really wanted to
verify Newton's understand-
ing of the universe."
Today, the building bears
the distinction of being the
oldest campus structure in its
original and unaltered form.
It is second only to the Presi-
dent's House in age. Recently,
the observatory has re-opened
for observations and public
visits, afterdecades of non-use
following a 1998 restoration.
The building is open to the
public twice a month for tours,
as well as for public viewing
nights.
According to Wight, these
viewings are a "very rare
event" and are always tenta-
tively scheduled due to the
tendency of clouds to roll in,
"which," she says "in Michi-
gan, they do every 10 minutes
or so."
-ALLIE WHITE

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom t
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

OfficehoursSn.-Thurs.t11 .m. - 2a..
news@michigandaily.on
correstions@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.omn
photeokmihigandaily.com
arspae@nihiandaiy.con
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@mihigandaiy.om
disptay@michigarndaity.com
classified@michigandaily.com
nneads@icigandaiy.com

The Detroit Observatory, located on the Hill,
houses two large telescopes from the mid-
1800s.

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Driver arrested, Vehicles collide, Lecture on Job networking U.S. military officials have
taken to jail no injuries Arabic works workshop proposed lifting a ban that
J prevents women from serv-
WHERE:1000 block Fuller St. WHERE: Medical Center WHAT: History Prof. Juan WHAT: Senior counselors Yao submarines ccordn
WHEN: Saturday at about 6:25 WHEN: Sunday at about noon Cole will discuss the transla- will discuss career network- a icd f fight.ngi
p.m. WHAT: Two vehicles were tions of writer Kahil Gibran's ingafor women. $1S for par- mlsorestr tefrom tg tgin
WHAT: A subject was arrested involved in an accident, Univer- works and his influence on ticipants.
for drunk driving,.University sity Police reported. There were the Arab Renaissance. WHO: Center for the Educa- report said.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SniloVitZ ManagingNtews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skoller, Kyle Swanson
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASsOcIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORSJoshuasBayer,Carolyn Klarecki,AndrewLapin, DavidRiva
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
tlitReeder Masagingrhoot ditors
SNIO POO EDITORSSadAsalaChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
MaureenStych ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPYCHIEF:Melanie Fried,Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie JozWiak sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian LeeFinance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulationnanager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter
termsbystudentsattheUniversityof Michigan.Onecopyisavaiablefreeeof chargetoallreaders.
AdditionacopiesmaybepickedupattheOaiysofficefortS2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,startingin
Snr>teberviaU.S. malae$1Winterersm(Jenuaryen tougpri lis15,searlngSeptemn
tihropril s$191. Univrsty tfiitenaiesujct t:anrduedsusciptionrate.Oncanpus
ubsciptionsforfaltermare$35.iSubscriptihpsnust eprepaid.The Michigapp ipyaogr
TheAssociatedPressand TheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

Police reported. He was taken
to Washtenaw County Jail.

no injuries and both vehicles
experienced minor damage.

WHO: Department of Com-
parative Literature
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.

. nkownsubec WHERE: Wolverine R
Michigan Union
Broken window, found tres
no suspects Funding for
WHERE: South Quad er
WHERE: Michigan Union WHEN: Saturday at about 1:25 internships
WHEN: Sunday about 8:15 p.m.
am. WHAT: A subject was found abroad

.om,

tion of Women
WHEN: Today at 1p.m.
WHERE: Center for the
Education of Women, 330 E.
Liberty
CORRECTIONS
. An editorial in yes-
terday's edition of the
Michigan Daily "A Smarter
Loan System" inaccurately
reported that the financial
aid legislation passed the
House on Thursday. It was
actually passed last Thurs-
day, Sept. 17.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The only treatments
available for Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis, better
known as Lou Gehrig's dis-
ease, only slow the effects of
the disease, but can't reverse
the damage.
FoOR MORE, SEE OPINION PAGE 4A
A third-party on Face-
book.com created an
application polling how
many people think Presi-
dent Barack Obama should be
killed, according to CNN.com.
The application was immedi-
ately disabled, although the
U.S. Secret Service is investi-
gating the issue.

WHAT: The exterior of a win-
dow on the south side of the
Union was broken, University
Police reported. Maintenance
was notified.

trespassing near the front desk
in South Quad, University
Police reported. He was read
trespass rights and escorted
from the building.

WHAT: Experts will dis-
cuss funding options for
international internships and
research programs.
WHO: International Center
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: Kuenzel Room,
Michigan Union

More school: Obama would curtail summer vacation

Obama says more
time in school
will boost grades,
test scores
WASHINGTON (AP) - Students
beware: The summer vacation you
just enjoyed could be sharply cur-
tailed if President Barack Obama
gets his way.
Obama says American kids spend
too littletime in school, putting them
at a disadvantage with other students
around the globe.
"Now, I know longer school days
and school years are not wildly pop-
ular ideas," the president said earlier
this year. "Not with Malia and Sasha,

not in my family, and probably not in
yours. But the challenges of a new
century demand more time in the
classroom."
The president, who has a sixth-
grader and a third-grader, wants
schools to add time to classes, to stay
open late and to let kids in on week-
ends so they have a safe place to go.
"Our school calendar is based
upon the agrarian economy and not
too many of our kids are working the
fields today," Education Secretary
Arne Duncan said in a recent inter-
view with The Associated Press.
Fifth-grader Nakany Camara is of
two minds. She likes the four-week
summer program at her school,
Brookhaven Elementary School in
Rockville, Md. Nakany enjoys seeing
her friends there and thinks summer

school helped boost her grades from
two Cs to the honor roll.
But she doesn't want a longer
school day. "I would walk straight
out the door," she said.
Domonique Toombs felt the same
way when she learned she would stay
for an extra three hours each day in
sixth grade at Boston's Clarence R.
Edwards Middle School.
"I was like, 'Wow, are you seri-
ous?"' she said. "That's three more
hours I won't be able to chill with my
friends after school."
Her school is part of a 3-year-old
state initiative to add 300 hours of
school time in nearly two dozen
schools. Early results are positive.
Even reluctant Domonique, who just
started ninth grade, feels differently
now. "I've learned a lot." she said.

Does Obama want every kid to
do these things? School until din-
nertime? Summer school? And what
about the idea that kids today are
overscheduled and need more time
to play?
Obama and Duncan say kids in
the United States need more school
because kids in other nations have
more school.
"Young people in other countries
are going to school 25, 30 percent
longer than our students here," Dun-
can told the AP. "I want to just level
the playing field."
While it is true that kids in many
other countries have more school
days, it's nottrue they all spend more
time in school.
Kids in the U.S. spend more hours
in school (,146 instructional hours

per year) than do kids in the Asian
countries that persistently outscore
the U.S. on math and science tests
- Singapore (903), Taiwan (1,050),
Japan (1,005) and HongKong(1,013).
That is despite the fact that Taiwan,
Japan and Hong Kong have longer
school years (190 to 201 days) than
does the U.S. (180 days).
Regardless, there is a strong case
for adding time to the school day.
Researcher Tom Loveless of the
Brookings Institution looked at
math scores in countries that added
math instruction time. Scores rose
significantly, especially in countries
that added minutes to the day, rather
than days to the year.
"Ten minutes sounds trivial to a
school day, but don't forget, these
math periods in the U.S. average 45

minutes," Loveless said. "Percent-
age-wise, that's a pretty healthy
increase."
In the U.S., there are many exam-
ples of gains when time is added to
the school day.
Charter schools are known for
having longer school days or weeks
or years. For example, kids in the
KIPP network of 82 charter schools
across the country go to school from
7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., more than three
hours longer than the typical day.
They go to school every other Sat-
urday and for three weeks in the
summer. KIPP eighth-grade classes
exceed their school district averages
on state tests.
In Massachusetts' expanded
learning time initiative, early results
indicate that kids in some schools
do better on state tests than do kids
at regular public schools. The extra
time, which schools can add as hours
or days, is for three things: core aca-
demics - kids struggling in English,
for example, get an extra English
class; more time for teachers; and
enrichment time for kids.
Regular public schools are add-
ing time, too, though it is optional
and not usually part of the regular
school day. Their calendar is pretty
much set in stone. Most states set the
minimum number of school days at
180 days, though a few require 175 to
179 days.
Several schools are going year-
round by shortening summer vaca-
tion and lengthening other breaks.
Many schools aregoingbeyondthe
traditional summer school model, in
which schools give remedial help to
kids who flunked or fell behind.
Summer is a crucial time for kids,
especially poorer kids, because pov-
erty is linked to problems that inter-
fere with learning, such as hunger
and less involvement by their par-
ents.
That makes poor children almost
totally dependent on their learn-
ing experience at school, said Karl
Alexander, a sociology professor at
Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, home of the National Center for
Summer Learning.
Disadvantaged kids, on the whole,
make no progress in the summer,
Alexandersaid.Somestudiessuggest
they actually fall back. Wealthier
kids have parents who read to them,
have strong language skills and go
to great lengths to give them learn-
ing opportunities such as computers,
summer camp, vacations, music les-
sons, or playingcon sports teams.

6
a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
HOLLAND, Mich.
Glut of milk
hurting Mich.
dairy farmers
Despite a worldwide milk glut
that has sent prices plummeting,
Michigan dairy farmers continue
to produce milk at a loss, relying
on subsidies to get them by as they
wait for prices to improve.
Producers face higher costs
but less demand for milk, partly
because of a dried-up export
market.
Just two years ago, around 10
percent of the state's milk went
to Asian and other markets, but
none of it is exported now, said Ira
Krupp, a dairy expert with Michi-
gan State University Extension.
"When the world economy
went in the toilet, so did our
export market," Krupp told The
Holland Sentinel for a story pub-
lished Monday.
At the heart of the problem is
the nature of milk. Unlike grain
farmers who can hold out for bet-
ter prices by storing crops in a
silo, dairymen must sell raw milk
to processors or else it spoils. And
cows keep producing regardless
of economic conditions.
DETROIT
Detroit enrollment
campaign to end
Detroit Public Schools offi-
cials soon will learn if visits by
comedian Bill Cosby, more than
170 blue-painted doors and even
an effort to scrawl skywriting
above the city's riverfront will be
enough to boost the struggling
district's enrollment.
The $500,000 "I'm In" cam-
paign to get students into school
ends tomorrow. State aid to
each district is based on enroll-
ment numbers submitted from
Wednesday's fall count and a
winter count last February.
The district says that each
student leaving Detroit Public
Schools means $7,550 less in
state aid. Detroit dropped below
100,000 students last year and
has budgeted for 83,777 this fall.
As part ofthe campaign, emer-
gency financial manager Robert
Bobb has gone door-to-door in
recent weeks trying to persuade
parents to keep their children in
Detroit schools, or return them
to the district.
WASHINGTON
NATO official:
Additional Afghan
training needed
NATO's secretary general says
the U.S. and its allies need to in-
vest more in training and equip-
pingAfghan security forces for the
widening conflict in Afghanistan.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen
(AHN'-derz FOHG RAHS'-moo-
sihn) said yesterday that "things
are going to have to change" in Af-
ghanistan to retain public support
for the stalemated war. He also
told the Atlantic Council think

tank that NATO needs to start let-
ting Afghan military and civilian
officials take the lead in securing
and building their war-torn na-
tion.
Rasmussen would not say
whether he believes the U.S.
should send more troops to Af-
ghanistan, as the Obama adminis-
tration is debating. He also gently
chastised Americans who ques-
tion allied nations' commitment to
Afghanistan.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico
List shows 75
Gitmo prisoners
cleared for release
A list released by the U.S. mili-
tary shows at least 75 Guantana-
mo detainees have been cleared
for release by a task force that has
been sorting through the remain-
ing prisoners as part of an Obama
administration effort to shutter
the jail.
Navy Lt. Cmdr. Brook DeWalt,
a spokesman for the prison that
holds about 223 men, said yester-
day the list in Arabic, Pashto and
English was posted in common
areas throughout the detention
camps earlier this month.
He said the list was an initiative
by Rear Adm. Thomas H. Cope-
man III, commander of the Joint
Task Force that runs the U.S. off-
shore prison in Cuba, to communi-
cate directly to the detainees and
deter rumors about transfers.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

State budget
talks near
final deadline

This photo, released by the Iranian semi-official Fars News Agency, claims to show the launch of an Iranian Revolutionary Guard
Shahab-3 medium-range missile during a drill at an undisclosed location yesterday.
Irn:mis sles can reach
any place in the country

Lawmakers have less
than 36 hours to solve
$2.8 billion deficit
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - Michi-
gan lawmakers are running low on
time to balance the state's next bud-
get.
The Legislature is expected to
return to session Tuesday morning
and start taking key votes related
to the government's spending plan.
The House and Senate will have
just 38 hours after they reconvene to
erase a projected $2.8 billion deficit
in the next fiscalyear.
Lawmakers could pass an interim
budget to extend the current fiscal
year if they get worried they might
miss the Thursday budget deadline.
Failure to balance the budgetor pass
an interim budget could result in
Michigan's second partial govern-
ment shutdown in the past three
years.
The Legislature did not meet
Monday because of Yom Kippur, the
holiest day of the Jewish calendar.
Democratic House Speaker
Andy Dillon and Republican Senate
Majority Leader Mike Bishop say
they will beat the budget deadline.
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm
is taking them at their word.
"The governor and legislative
leaders have all said that they do not
want a shutdown of state govern-
ment," Granholm spokeswoman Liz
Boyd said Monday. "So we expect to
be open for business on Thursday
morning."
Lawmakers are helped by the

fact that federal stimulus money
will wipe out more than half of the
deficit.
Dillon and Bishop agreed ear-
lier this month to make at least $1.2
billion in spending cuts, a plan that
would make it possible to balance the
budget without tax increases. But
some Democrats want more money
to save high priority programs, caus-
ing a divide within the party.
Nearly 100,000 college students
were due at least a portion ofa Mich-
igan Promise scholarship worth
$4,000 this academic year, but that
program likely will be lost in this
budget cycle without extra revenue.
A member of Michigan State Uni-
versity's College Democrats plans to
visit the Capitol on Tuesday and ask
lawmakers for personal donations
to make up for her lost scholarship
money, drawing further attention
to the issue as the budget deadline
nears.
Hundreds of police, firefighters
and other local government employ-
ees could be laid off if revenue shar-
ing cuts are too deep. Health care
groups say that cutting Medicaid
reimbursement rates could prompt
more doctors to stop accepting low-
income patients.
The showdown between those
who want higher taxes to save those
programs and those who want to
rely solely on cuts promises to pro-
vide some tough votes in the Legis-
lature over the next few days.
Matt Marsden, a spokesman for
Bishop, said the goal remains to
stick to the agreement to "reduce
the size and scope of government
without tax increases."

Iran says long-range
missiles can reach
Israel, parts of Europe
and U.S. military bases
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) - Iran test-
ed itslongest-range missiles yester-
day and warned they can reach any
place that threatens the country,
including Israel, parts of Europe
and U.S. military bases in the Mid-
east. The launch capped two days
of war games and was condemned
as a provocation by Western pow-
ers, which are demanding Tehran
come clean about a newly revealed
nuclear facility it has been secretly
building.
The tests Sunday and again
yesterday added urgency to a key
meeting this week between Iran
and the five permanent members
of the U.N. Security Council and
Germany - an international front
seeking clear answers about the

direction of its nuclear program.
Iran's missile program and its
nuclear work - much of it carried
out in secrecy - have long been a
concern for the United States, Isra-
el and its Western allies. They fear
Tehran is intent on developing an
atomic weapons capability and the
missiles to deploy such warheads,
despite Iran's assurances it is only
pursuing civilian nuclear power.
In the latest exercise, the pow-
erful Revolutionary Guard, which
controls Iran's missile program,
successfully tested upgraded ver-
sions of Iran's medium-range
Shahab-3 and Sajjil missiles, state
television reported. Both can carry
warheads and reach up to 1,200
miles, putting Israel, U.S. military
bases in the Middle East and parts
of Europe within striking distance.
The launchings were meant
to display Iran's military might
and demonstrate its readiness to
respond to any military threat.
"Iranian missiles are able to
target any place that threatens

Iran," said Abdollah Araqi, a senior
Revolutionary Guard commander,
according to the semiofficial Fars
news agency.
Iran conducted three rounds of
missile tests in drills that began
Sunday, two days after the U.S. and
its allies disclosed the country had
been secretly developing an under-
ground uranium enrichment facil-
ity. The Western powers warned
Iran must open the site to interna-
tional inspection or face harsher
international sanctions.
Iran's Foreign Ministry spokes-
man, Hasan Qashqavi, maintained
the missile tests had nothing to do
with the tension over the site, say-
ing they were part of routine, long-
planned military exercises.
That assertion was rejected by
the United States and its European
allies.
White House press secretary
Robert Gibbs called the tests "pro-
vocative in nature," adding: "Obvi-
ously, these were ;pre-planned
military exercises."

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
CoronalSolI~odella/Pacifico Specials All Night
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25%Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Maynard St. - To Go Orders 734,995.0100 -Nex to the Manard Parkin Struclurw
H,-,,

JIciCiigan ai1 P R E S E N T S
the ONLINE CLASSIFIED RENTAL MAP


4

4A - Tuesday, September 29, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

IJbe MIidi gan a4ly
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
x ; 't 420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
A pro-stem cell policy
Increased stem cell research will cure diseases, benefit state
Thanks to a progressive stem cell treatment being devel-
oped by University researchers, life may soon change for
individuals suffering from certain neurological diseases.
And in a new political climate of support for stem cell research,
the proposed treatment has received FDA approval for a human
clinical trial. This is a significant victory for supporters of stem
cell research and patients suffering from neurological diseases,
but it's also good news for the University. And as governmental
support for stem cell research continues to improve, the Univer-
sity should strive to maintain its place at the forefront of such
important scientific advancements.


It's not because she's been indoctrinated.
It's because he's right."

- Mary Cheney, daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, commenting on why sister
Liz Cheney shares their father's views, as reported yesterday by the New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI | E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
Ug. y ea. ha hppnei as nghBlagis Wow. Seswanetins
play some beer pag;
Wlwell, sunshie.e Wakey ; You sad something aboat
akeyeggs and bakey wantng to teach your N aI lve0coll.
6 0
* S0*c
0 WWI
' «!".r Rv -
IT-

Food for thought

The proposed clinical trial, which
received FDA approval on Sept. 18, is the
first of its kind for the disease it is designed
to treat and will be led by University
researcher Dr. Eva Feldman. The treatment
consists of injecting stem cells into the spi-
nal cords of patients suffering from Amyo-
trophic Lateral Sclerosis, better known as
Lou Gehrig's Disease. ALS is a neurological
disease that causes a slow loss of voluntary
muscle function. Currently, the only treat-
ments for ALS are medications that slow
the effects of the disease, but researchers
hope that stem cell injections will stop and
possibly reverse the damage.
Approval of Feldman's treatment would
not have been possible if not for drastic
legislative changes in the past year. Michi-
gan's Proposal 2 ballot initiative passed in
the election last November, easing restric-
tions on stem cell research. And earlier this
year, President Barack Obama reversed an
executive order put into effect by President
George W. Bush, which had limited federal
funding to stem cell research. These fortu-
nate developments have been instrumental
in allowing the advancement Of iirbn'isirlg'
research with the potential to save mil-
lions of lives.
Diseases like ALS are debilitating and
painful, not only for those who suffer from
the disease but also for the people who
care for them. According to the ALS Asso-
ciation, there are as many as 30,000 people

in the United States with ALS. And they
could benefit from new stem cell treat-
ments. Other diseases like Alzheimer's
and multiple sclerosis may also be treat-
able using stem cell therapies. The poten-
tial of stem cell research to alleviate and
cure these diseases is more than sufficient
reason for the government to condone and
promote its study by leading scientists and
researchers across the country.
But opportunities for stem cell research
are especially good for the University. The
fact that University researchers are mak-
ing cutting edge developments in the field
brings the University - and by extension,
the state - needed publicity. Leading the
way on stem cells attracts bright and tal-
ented minds to settle in Michigan. And
bringing these professionals here will
undoubtedly contribute to the revitaliza-
tion of the state's economy through an
increased focus on science-based jobs. It's
important that studies like Feldman's are
funded and encouraged so that the Univer-
sity can remain the focal point of stem cell
research.
But aside'ffonhthd economic bdn fh for
Michigan, it's important to remember that
Feldman's work has the potential to radi-
cally change the lives of those who suffer
from disease for the better. Governmen-
tal policy should continue to reflect the
enormous benefits that further stem cell
research will bring.

bile the past few months
have been host to a num-
ber of famous deaths of
people famous
(Michael Jackson,
Ted Kennedy and
Patrick Swayze, to
name just a few),
I was disappoint-
ed that one very
influential person
passed with little
fanfare. He wasn't BEN
a politician and he
didn't captivate CALECA
the masses with
music or speeches,
yet his work has profoundly changed
the world as a whole. He used sci-
ence to fight world hunger on three
continents. This man was Norman
Borlaug. Though he is not without
his critics, his work has shown that
sometimes it takes science to effec-
tively reduce a systemic problem like
food scarcity. This is the kind of man
that college students looking to make
a dlffetence d6 people's livds shouMd
aspire to emulate.
Before I address the critics of Dr.
Borlaug and his Green Revolution,
I want to make clear the dizzying
ramifications of his work are known
to the world. During the 1940s, he
worked for the Mexican government
to find solutions to the problem of
the country's grain crops that had
been riddled with disease. His work
not only stabilized wheat farming
in Mexico but allowed the country
to become a net exporter of wheat
within a decade. After fighting hun-
ger in Mexico, he turned his sights to
South Asia. Working with both India
and Pakistan during the 1960s, he
braved an unstable political climate
and introduced his methods of bio-
technology to increase crop yields
and produce record amounts of grain
harvests for both countries. Moving
on, he looked at new breeds of rice for
Asia, which created still more food
solutions.
His work created genetically
diverse and disease-resistant crops,
which required fewer resources and
could withstand less hospitable con-
ditions. He was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize in1970 for almost single-
handedly fighting back a Malthusian
nightmare of famine across the globe

while working directly in the field efit for this Green Revolution. By
with farmers to address their con- using fewer animals as sources of
cerns. He's often been credited with fertilizer, artificially fertilized crops
saving the lives of a billion people. also reduce greenhouse gas emis-
But Dr. Borlaug's fight is far from sions. Genetic or chemical additives
over. In Africa and other areas of the fight weeds, which allows for farmers
globe, there are still people dying of to reduce labor and burn less oil to
hunger. It's unjust, and politics is one work farm equipment and keep crops
of the main reasons this situation per- healthy. Studies like the one conduct-
sists. Besides dictators and warlords ed by Graham Brookes of PG Eco-
controlling regions via the control of nomics credit genetically modified
food, pro-organic crop groups have crops with curbing global warming is
advised some African nations to only equal to removing over 4 million cars
grow crops organically, strangling from the road.
their food diversity and yield options If you study archeology, you learn
with inefficient farming methods and that you can trace back human agri-
non-genetically modified crops. The culture by looking at plants and the
question should not be whether or not food we ate. Corn, wheat, fruit - all
science is allowed to change our food of these things looked very little like
to meet the pressing needs of people they do today. We have been breeding
around the globe. Borlaug's work is them since before recorded history to
proof that this is often necessary. The be bigger, to grow with less water, to
real focus should be on making sure separate from chaff readily and to be
food reaches the people who need it grown uniformly. Changing the food
most. we eat to be more convenient and
Proponents of organic crops claim readily available allowed humans to
that because of lower nutrition in spend their days better, giving them
come biotech crops, malnutrition has ti'e'$trengh aid free time to create
become rampant. The truth is much civilization.
more complex. Having a limited
source of dietary options often leads
to malnutrition, and even if biotech Want to solve
crops have less nutrition per pound, W ant
their nutrition per acre harvested is
much greater. The efficient way to world hunger?
fight malnutrition is to diversify crop Meet Dr.B l
choices in a region and look for vita- M eet D oriaug.
min supplements if necessary, but
don't shun scientifically-enhanced
crops on principle alone. Without There is never a black and white
them, countless people would die. answer to most crises, and world
Natural farming methods simply hunger is certainly a complex issue.
require so much land, water, natural Addressing it requires a combina-
fertilizer from animals and manpow- tion of political, economic, scientific
er thathundreds of millions of people and social changes. Borlaug said to
would die of starvation. the starving peoples he had worked
Critics also cite the chemicals used to save, "We're going to teach you to
for inorganic fertilizer and pesticides be rebels. Not with guns and daggers,
as evidence of organic farming's supe- but with science and technology."
riority. But if a crop lacks pesticides Regardless of its criticisms, biotech-
(chemicals that, regardless of their nology still has room to grow - not
source, must harm insects), then its only in advancing itself and improv-
survival will be placed in the whims log on its old successes, but also in
of insect attack and seasonal famines. addressing the concerns of its critics
Farmers often use more chemical through research. I can only hope
products than are necessary, but this there are scientific minds as ambi-
problem is due to a failure to educate tious as his to carry on the work for
farmers about efficient agricultural such global causes.
practices rather than an intrinsic evil
in pesticides. - Ben Caleca can be reached
There is also an even greener ben- at calecab@umich.edu.

i

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Tax deductions encourage a larger amount than they otherwise might,
fans to donate to athletics drawing even more money into the non-profit
organizations that provide an obvious benefit
to the public.
TO THE DAILY: Enhanced athletic facilities allow our team
In his column, Mr. O'Mahen argues that to train and perform better and provide a
the tax deduction given to Michigan football direct benefit to the hundreds of thousands of
fans for their purchases of new luxury seating people that have ever felt the overwhelming
options is unfairly subsidized by Joe Taxpay- sense of pride that comes with being a Michi-
er (Subsidized Sports Fans, 09/28/2009). I'm gan fan.
unsure as to whether Mr. O'Mahen is suggest- Mr. O'Mahen suggests making athletic
ing we get rid of the tax incentive for making boosters "pay for the fair market value of
charitable contributions altogether or wheth- their club seats" when, by his own calculation,
er he's simply upset with alumni who are boosters would still be donating up to $52,600
spending their hard-earned money to make (after a tax benefit of about $20,000) for these
his school a better place. The former is inef- seats. As far as I'm concerned, this kind of
ficient and the latter unappreciative. support and generosity deserves a tip of the
Charitable giving results in positive exter- hat and a very sincere thank you from all who
nalities to society. Thus, tax deductions for wear and bleed maize and blue.
charitable giving are justifiable on the grounds
of efficiency. In other words, giving a tax Adam Heinlein
break to these donors allows them to donate Alum

EMILY BARTON I

Why I want my gap year

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
The Dailyis looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are
responsible for discussing and writing the editorials that appear on
the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

As a child of University alumni with multiple degrees,
my focus growing up has always been on school.
Every step I took in high school was toward the goal
of getting into college. My logical next step, then, as an
English major beginning my senior year of college, would
be to go on to graduate school. "Are you taking the GRE?"
my relatives keep asking, unaware that my parents have
already given up hope of that happening this year and are
instead focused on another question: "What will you do
next year?"
I answer them truthfully: I don't know. I still want to
go to school again in the future. But I am currently unsure
what kind of graduate degree I might want to pursue. My
parents decided to go to grad school to delay the real
world, but I am making the opposite decision: I want to
try out the real world in order to delay grad school. When
I do finally go, I want to have a better sense of what it is
I want to do. And so, even in an economy where jobs are
scarce, I want to take a gap year.
"Shouldn't you do something career-oriented?" my
parents say, as they try to buy me interview suits and ask
if I have checked out the Career Center. Yes, if I knew for
sure what kind of career I was looking for. It isn't that I
haven't found things I love while in school. I've spent the
last few years as a writer and editor for the Daily, interned
for various publications and taken interesting classes. But
nothing has settled the uncertainty I feel when I think
about graduation.

United States Department of Labor statistics estimate
that people change careers an average of 10 times before
the age of 40. While I'm hoping that I won't feel the need
to go from job to job that many times, it's that luxury I'm
searching for - the ability to change my mind. So much
emphasis is placed on deciding on a career as an under-
graduate that there's very little information for someone
who wants to try something she has never tried before.
There are the usual options: Teach for America, teach-
ing abroad, the Peace Corps. I may apply to all three.
And there are the usual career paths for each major. For
example, as an English major, career websites suggest I
may enjoy a career in publishing, marketing or teaching.
I may try to find a job in a field like that. Or I may throw
a dart at a map, pack up my belongings and go. I want to
take advantage of the flexibility of youth, take the chance
to move around, and work a low-wage job in order to see
new places and meet new people.
For the first time in a long time, I have no idea what
my next step will be. And I know what you're think-
ing. Poor, naive college student - wait until she gradu-
ates and realizes there are no jobs. Point taken. But all
of my focus on education forces me to realize that no
matter what I do or where I go, it will teach me some-
thing about myself. Maybe all I will learn is that I should
go right back to school. But at least I will know for sure.
Emily Barton is an associate editorial page editor.

6
I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 - 5A

Paperback or bust

have a lot of problems with
Kindles and e-readers -
those e-inked, overpriced
metal boards masquerading as
books. The
e-reader just
seems un-book-
like. While I
can fit several
thousand digi-
tal books onto
this thing, it
seems like the WHITNEY
struggle of POW
stuffing a hoard
of six paperbacks in the back of
a suitcase should be an inherent
struggle ofbeinga book lover - I
will often forego packing extra
shirts in favor of bringing Adam
Gopnik's "Through the Children's
Gate" or David Foster Wallace's
"Consider the Lobster" with me.
Are e-readers adequate sub-
stitutes for books? The argument
here is about what characterizes a
book in the first place. Is a book
about having pages that turn?
Is a book about old book smell,
that vaguely coffee-ground-like,
musty smell? Or is a book, at its
core, really about experiencing
the thoughts of the writer and
the information and insight con-
tained within a book's pages?
Here is the definitional divide
between books as physical enti-
ties and books as informational
vessels. A book could be defined
as anything that can be read
that results in information being
passed on to the reader. This point
was anxiously pressed into my
head a year ago when I attended
the University's Book Publishing
Workshop. Editors and higher-ups
of publishing houses like Harp-
erCollins were frantically trying
to persuade workshop attendees
that the definition of the book
was changing and the booksell-
ing industry honestly isn't failing
(even though the reality of the
situation is quite different).
Even given this information,

my dow
ginia W
PDFs th
Readin;
comput
much u
turnabl
paper b
mental,
I see th
alwayst
venient
But I
Amazon
e-reader
the prec
The coe
grab mo
digital b
its expe
Kindle-
are encc
e-reader
paying f
are, in e
that thi
P
buy ano
novel of
forever
e-inked
Kindle,,
zon.com
is an exe
are goin
ries abo
rights o
want no
My fr
oversha
details a
in gener
is a tech
really w
my seem
port of t
held Sos
in my h

'nloaded copies of Vir- ingly marveled at the e-ink in its
'oolf's works are more strangely pigmented screen; it
ian books, in my mind. really did emulate the experience
g off of a screen (Kindle, of looking at a crisp sheet of paper.
er or otherwise) is very The words were defined and vis-
nlike reading from crisp, ible without a backlight, and the
e pages. I know that with cover was present on screen in a
ooks there are environ- clear yet colorless grayscale. Even
costs to worry about. though the controls were difficult
at paper books are not to navigate, it was thrilling to hold
the most efficient or con- a metal sheet containing enough
entities. books to satisfy me without weigh-
'l1 be damned if ing down my luggage or arms.
n.com, the leader in the No matter how persuasive the
r race with the Kindle, sets thing is, however, my verdict is
edent for books' future. that Iwill not buy an e-reader,
npany is attempting to even though it has seduced my
snopoly-like power in the utilitarian sensibilities. Given
ook selling industry with the confusing interface, the hefty
nsive e-readers and its cost and the screen's limited color
exclusive e-books, which palette (I don't think you can
ded in a way that no other truly enjoy book covers when you
r or computer can view. In are restricted to varying shades
or a Kindle e-book, you of gray and slightly lighter gray),
ffect, selling your soul to effortlessly toting a thousand
n piece of metal. After you books around with me is not worth
sacrificingthe comfort or simplic-
ity of a paperbound book. But if
'DFs aren't e-readers shape up to be more
wieldy and user-friendly, I might
etua1 pages. just re-consider.
So the question is: Are books
as we know them becoming obso-
lete? It all really depends on your
verpriced Stephen King attachment to the idiosyncrasies
f of Amazon.com, you are and experiences that come along
forced to read it from the with paper-book reading - shar-
pages of your nearly $300 ing and borrowing dog-eared
or any other reader Ama- books, writing little notes to some-
ordains holy. If the Kindle one in front covers when book-giv-
ample of the way books ing, getting coffee stains on your
g in the future, with wor- book, which end up being more
ut ownership and viewer's proud marks of use than defects.
ver one copy of a book, I Books, for me, are just as much
)part in it. about the experience of turning
ustration at Amazon.com the page as gleaning insight from
dows a lot of the finer writers and feeling the rhythms of
issociated with e-readers the stanzas, the details contained
al. The truth is this: There in paragraphs. For me, those $300
-savvy part of me that hunks of plastic, metal and wires
ants an e-reader, despite can wait.

"I'm telling you, if you think last night's storm was good, wait until you try Olive Garden!"
Cloudles kies

Despite a political agenda and a childish
premise, Meatballs' will appeal to all ages
By Timothy Rabb I Daily Arts Writer

A long, long time ago in a small
house far, far away (hold the
cynical remarks, it's a children's
movie), two young kids listened
as their Grandpa Henry told them
the story of
the town of*
Chewandswal-
low, where the aoud-vh
weather is con-
tingent upon a Chance of
the three meal MeatbaIs
times. Rather
than water, the At Quality16
rain consists of and Showcase
the libation of Columbia
various soups,
juices and
other potables from the sky. The
snow consists of mashed pota-
toes, and the wind's fury gives
way to flying hamburgers. While
these quirky weather patterns
provide a daily stock of food to
the land's inhabitants, they often
take on malicious manifestations
in stormy weather, inflicting daily
suffering on Chewandswallow's
residents in the form of tomato-
sauce tornadoes, giant meatballs
and pancakes.
All of these events, whether
happy or hapless, are detailed in
full in Judi Barrett's children's
book "Cloudy With a Chance of
Meatballs." Published in 1978, the

book's contemporary big-screen
adaptation retains many of the
printed version's positive aspects,
yet also attempts to present its own
politicized notions of America's
society of excess. The film seeks to
answer the question: How exactly
did the town of Chewandswallow
become an epicenter of tasty tor-
rents, succulent squalls and delec-
table downpours?
Enter Flint Lockwood (voiced
by Bill Hader, "Saturday Night
Live"), prospective inventor and
- in the eyes of many of his peers
- bumbling madman. His story
begins long before Chewandswal-
low met its palatable fortunes,
in a time when the town had "no
flavor" and survived solely on
sardines. Lockwood dreams of
a town in which his fellow man's
subsistence is no longer dependent
upon such a disgusting, fishy food,
so he makes the abrupt decision to
invent a machine that transforms
ordinary water into dream cuisine.
But before Lockwood's dream can
be brought to fruition, a freak acci-
dent results in the small machine's
projection into the stratosphere,
where it sucks in the moisture of
the clouds and creates catastrophic
food-storms that threaten human-
ity's very survival.
Granted, the film's premise is a

bit too extraordinary to appeal to
most adults, but audiences of all
ages will enjoy the fresh perspec-
tive offered by the 3-D graphic
design. The film's animators cer-
tainly didn't take full advantage
of the liberation from depth that
the 3-D animations granted them,
but their explorations of this new
graphical style are sufficiently
ambitious to merit a closer look.
The slapstick comedy marks a
delightfully nostalgic return to the
"old ways" of filmmaking. Over-
used? Maybe, but it would be nice
to pretend that we live in a world
in which all humor is not careless-
ly derived from sexual innuendo
and vulgar utterances.
Overall, the film's material,
though unlikely to amaze a prac-
ticing cinephile, is substantial and
worth the extra money paid to see
it. The political allusions to glut-
tony and excessive consumerism
may be overwrought ("WALL-E,"
anyone?), but one might venture
outside the realm of "political
correctness" to point out that the
film's contention with our way of
life is entirely true. Rather than
addressing the problem of a soci-
ety in which two-thirds of adults
are overweight, we continue to
exploit our abundance of resourc-
es to meet our own selfish ends.
Overwrought or not, "Cloudy with
a Chance of Meatballs" confronts
us all with a message that we are
more than willing to accept as
true, but unwilling to apply to our
daily lives.

ningly unflinching sup-
he paper-bound book. I
ny's new e-book reader
ands yesterday and chok-

Pow wants to burn a new
Kindle. E-mail her some
matches at poww@umich.edu.

'Good Wife' not
so good after all

Preserving and modifying a dying artistic medium

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily TV/New Media Editor
Sex scandals and politicians go
together like peanut butter and
jelly. You really
know you're at
the top of the
political world The Good
when the entire
country gives a Wfe
shit about your Tuesdays
unlawful sex at1o p.m.
life. But while CBS
the cameras
flash and the
tabloids spew out the dirty details,
few people stop to think of those
affected by it beyond doling out the
obligatory statement: "Poor Mrs.
Politician and her kids."
CBS explores this untouched
area in its new show "The Good
Wife," which takes a look at the
other side of the political sex scan-
dals.
Non-descript political figure
Peter Florrick (Chris Noth, "Sex
and the City") has a couple wild
nights with a hooker, and chaos
ensues when the world finds out.
Peter lands himself in jail for being
involved in non-descript corrup-
tion and suddenly his wife, Alicia
(Julianna Margulies, "ER") has
to provide for the household, pro-
tect their children from the media
and mend her broken heart. She
returns to her old law firm with
the intention of bringing in some
more income and finds many cases
awaiting her.
This shit storm results in an odd
but effective blending of legal and
family drama. Legal drama is a
tricky genre and "The Good Wife"
doesn't quite pull it off. It's com-
mendable because viewers don't
need to watch the show regularly
- they can always just tune in and
watch a bunch of suits expose the
real criminal in a stabbing case.
But it's not so kind to rabid viewers,
because those who choose to watch
the show regularly are neglected -
every time they tune in it's a bunch

of suits exposing the real criminal
in yet another stabbingcase.
"The Good Wife" adds the ele-
ment of an overarching storyline.
It's more compelling to watch than
the average legal drama because
there is real plot advancement from
week to week. Despite the excel-
lent concept of adding soul to a
stagnant genre, the execution suf-
fers. The plot is confusing: It's not
clear who Peter Florrick actually is
or why he's in jail and it took a lot
more time and effort than it should
to figure out what Alicia Florrick's
first case was even about.
And with this addition of a real
storycomesthesacrificeoftheedge
and suspense that legal dramas
thrive on. Essentially, "The Good
Wife" is incredibly slow. The legal
system isn't always fast-paced and
exciting, but if the show's tempo
doesn't pick up, the channel will
Sex is like
peanut butter.
be changed long before any of the
characters get to the point. There
are a few biggish names in the cast
and the actors play their parts con-
vincingly, but thewriting and logis-
tics hinder what could have been a
very well-constructed show.
While "The Good Wife" doesn't
have a whole lot of flaws, it doesn't
particularly stand out either. Per-
haps CBS felt the show's- hook
would be relevant in today's politi-
cal world and that its concept alone
would propel the show to success.
But without a faster and more
comprehensible plot, the show
will more likely end up lost in the
shuffle of the new fall lineup. The
show may be able to survive if the
courtroom aspect is pushed aside
and the personal aspect is given
more focus. Otherwise, "The Good
Wife" will be gone as quickly as the
media circus surrounding any run-
of-the-mill political sex scandal.

By MOLLY MCGUIRE
Daily Arts Writer
Hipsters and nostalgia enthu-
siasts alike
mourned the
passing of Pola-
roid's instant Hand-Altered
film after it was Polaroid
discontinued
last year. But PhotographS
those murky, Through Oct.12
faded instant Taubman Center
photos that
slowly materi-
alize in one's hand aren't entirely
gone from the world.
The place to relive Polaroid
glory, albeit in an entirely differ-
ent form, is at University Hospitals'
Taubman Center as part of the Uni-
versity Health System Gifts of Art
program. Award-winning artist and
Ann Arbor native Cynthia Davis
uses Polaroid SX-70 photographs to
create her work in the exhibit "Chi-
cago: Hand-Altered Polaroid Photo-

graphs" which runs through Oct. 12.
Davis manipulates the Polaroid
SX-70 film to produce photographs
that evoke the feeling of painting
without the use of paint. The work
continues after she takes the photo,
when she takes advantage of the
malleable consistency of the film.
She etches lines into the image with
fine utensils, creating texture and
blending colors.
"I was always drawn to the
alternative photographic processes
where taking the picture was only
the beginning of the creative pro-
cesses. I also was attracted to pro-
cesses where the human hand was
evident," Davis wrote in an e-mail
interview.
Though this exhibit centers on
Chicago, Davis has also done much
exploring in Michigan, sometimes
traveling by motorcycle to track
down the most resonant scenes.
One of her Ann Arbor works
almost makes Nickels Arcade look
like the Passage des Panoramas

in Paris with its dreamy, nearly
impressionistic quality. Her meth-
ods evoke the loose brushstrokes of
impressionism and lend an old-fash-
ioned quality to these well-trodden
city-scapes. These pieces of art take
the candid quality of Polaroids and
combine them with everything that
make cities the vibrant places they
are - streets, landmarks, distinct
neighborhoods and the way nature
interacts with the urban landscape.
Keeping
Polaroids alive.
The effect is the same for the gal-
lery's famous scenes of Chicago -
the featured landmarks all acquire
tinges of whimsy in Davis's process
of altering the film. Tucked away in
the North Lobby of the Taubman
Center are these Chicago scenes,
which are enlargements from her

fifth book, "Chicago."
"I found I really enjoy physically
interacting with the photographic
emulsion," Davis wrote. "It brought
me back tomypaintingrootsyethad
the advantages of photography."
Altering Polaroids by hand is a
technique Davis has stayed with
for the past 25 years. But unfortu-
nately, it can't last forever. Davis
stocked up on the film when Pola-
roid stopped making it, but she is
realistic about its future.
"It is an art form that soon will
no longer be done," Davis wrote.
"Ultimately though, I am a creative
person and creativity is my life. I
am ready to move on to other things
if necessary."
Art is always changing and evolv-
ing: forms of art die and new ones
emerge to take their place. But for
now, this mixture of retro technol-
ogy and impressionism is something
unique, and something that may
grow in value and importance as the
Polaroid continues to disappear.


STILL NOT SATISFIED?
More articles on the Interweb.
www.michigandaily.coT.


4

6A - Tuesday, September 29, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


the michigan daily

CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagemen.com
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps In the B
Schaol. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law Schoal
734-222-9033. www.jmsprp.cam
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
1030
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner.
734-429-2850 or bcrider@umich.edu
for ent
I CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6& 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifullyfurnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734:663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010 *
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
Studio & 1
Bdrr. Units
Tawer Flaa Cendeminiurn
734-663-15530
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com

917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help find a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visitwww.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE NOW 1 bdrm. on S.
Forest near South U. 734-996-2836.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Wshr/dryer in unit, $850/m.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani@gmail.com
A
REALTY
Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
r oP;zza #5 e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$585-$900/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special.
734-449-4213.
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.

MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. aps. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
Now Leasing
for May 2010:
Large 2 Bedroom Apts!
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able fr immediate ccupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytawnaed
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WANTED GRAD STUDENT/ profes-
sor. New 1 bdrm. Chelsea apt. $625.
Util, elec., cable, DSL. Country hse on
100 acre nature preserve. 734-475-0291.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)>769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U f M Hspia. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wad Flrs, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carprt Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, picturesavailable at
www.archrealtyco.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.cm/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for dts (734) 668-
1100 or www.varsitymanagement.com
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
~t a idgat laity
PR ESETS THE
O *lne *asi le
Rental Map

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on,
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
sublet
070
1 BEDROOM, 521 Walnut St.: Fully
furnished, brand new furniture, updated
kitchen with dishwasher. Great campus
location, heat, water, parking included.
Call Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.

HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training presided.
AGE 18+ OK. 810-965-6520 x 125.
A. SCOTT FOUNDATION is seeking
a part time Admin. Assistant. 10-20 hrs
a week. $10-15/hr. Taking calls,
scheduling meetings, taking minutes,
paying bills, etc. Apply at:
azad@ultratrans.com
ACCOUNTING AND BIOLOGY
Students: Give Your Opinions About
Website, Earn $50
Looking for college students enrolled
in lower-level Accounting or Biology
courses to use an online resource for
taking assignments and give us your
opinions. Earn $50 for a 1-hour re-
search session in Ann Arbor. Sessions
held October 5-16. Research only, no
sales; your privacy respected. Visit
www.teced.com/study0909ms.htm to
apply.
CALCULUS TUTOR $15/HOUR
734.763.5463.
DO YOU CARE about National Parks?
Mackinac Island was America's 2nd
National Park. It is really in trouble and
urgently needs YOUR help.
Rise up, UM, and lead!
www.MichiganLeads.org
ww w.MichiganCaresforMackinac.org
To Help: 1-866-MAC-ISLE
EXECUTIVE COUPLE SEEKING
assistants to clean and organize base-
ment of local residence. Pay $10/hour.
Flexible hours. Must have excellent or-
ganization skills. Short term temporary
assignment lasting 1-2 weeks. To apply
email references and letter of interest/
resume to sdodson@thdg.com refer-
encing residential organization project.
STUDENT WORK
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., no exp. nec.,
wilt train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
MARKET RESEARCH INTER-
VIEW, $140. One hour October 5th or
6th. Seeking 35-54 year old diagnosed
with depression and dissatisfied with
current medications to participate in in-
dividual interviews ina confidential set-
ting. 734-623-9621
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
$300-$500. Get on the ground floor...
Act Now! http://www.pslOl.info
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.

CHILD CARE NEEDED. 2-3 days a
week. 6:30-8 AM. 11 year old. Own
transporation. Responsible references.
734-769-1462.
CHILDCARE NEEDED: IN my
home. Before/ after school. Driving re-
quired. $10.00/hr. 747-9484.

NEW HIRES
From Page1A
Additionally, SIM considered
the availability of state and local
resources necessary to get the
new center up and running. He
said Ohio and Texas were also
discussed as sites, but the Ann
Arbor area better met the com-
pany's needs.
"It hadthe rightvalues of what
we needed in terms of support,"
Sinha said,
However, Sinha emphasized
that Ohio and Texas may be con-
sidered for future expansions.
"Once we've established a
significant presence in the Ann
Arbor area, we'll begin to lever-
age the resources available in
other college towns as well,"
Sinha said.
Elizabeth Parkinson, the
marketing and public relations
director for Ann Arbor SPARK
- a local organization focused
on attracting and retaining inno-
vative, outside businesses in the
Ann Arbor region - said her
organization played a major role
in attracting SIM to Ann Arbor.
"We were one of the firstorga-
nizations that SIM connected
with," Parkinson said. "So we
pulled in our own resources and
started working with SIM to
understand the infrastructure
they would need, the site they're
looking for and the hires they
would be making."
SPARK tapped into state,
regional and local organizations
and educational institutions to
develop a plan that would attract
SIM to Ann Arbor.
This collective group designed
an incentive package for SIM,
which included $1.5 million in
workforce development funding,
according to a press release on
SPARK's website.
Stella Wixon, director of the
University's Business Engage-
nient Center, said the Business
Engagement Center also helped
pitch the University as a "busi-
ness attraction" to SIM - point-
ing out the possibilities for
student recruitment.
Sinha said, while SIM is cur-
rently looking for more experi-
enced hires to build and lead the
new center, it is also considering
the many openings that may be
filled by college students.
"The reason we wanted to set
up in college towns is because of
the infrastructure available for
training and development at the
University," Sinha said.
To that end, SIM is designing
a training program at Eastern
Michigan University that will
drive fresh graduates toward
entry-level careers at the new
center.
Sinha said that each type of
service SIM provides requires a
mix of fresh graduates with zero
to three years of experience,
managed by more experienced
employees with five to 10 years
experience.
"The kind of work that they do
will be ... developing and man-
aging technology that supports
business," Sinha said.
University students will have
the same opportunities for SIM
training and employment, Sinha
said, though they may need to
go through EMU's training pro-
gram.
"It's not like we're focused on
EMU," he said. "U of M offers

a significant amount of work in
training college kids to be really
effective and productive employ-
ees for companies like Systems
In Motion."
WNANNA
WRITE
FOR
DAILY
N EWS?
E-mail
smilovitz
michigan
daily
.com

I

4

4

4

4

RELEASE DATE-Tuesday, September 29,2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 6 Ho Chi _ 36 River of Florence 47Armstrong in
1 Leaders in the 7 Ancient 37 Where to see wild space
dugout: Abbr. 8 Dancer Charisse animals in cages 48 Nerd
5 Univ h shot 9 Separate grain 39 Modeler's wood 49 -facto
9Saran, tor one ram chaff 40 'America's 511 Gratis
13 Layered cookie 10 __ Julia, who Funniest Home 51 Start of many a
14 Dainty played Gomez Videos" host Bob letter
embroidered mat Addams 42 Zodiac bull 52 Diner orders, for
15 McKellen and 11 Opposed to 43 Adjusted the short
Fleming 12 Hissed "Hey, you!' pitch of, as a 53 Old U.S. gas
16 Breakfast pair 14 Football's"Prime piano 55 Prefix with natal
19 Apt to shy, asa Time" Sanders 46 Skilled 56 Brylcreem bit
horse 17 Wharton's "_
20 Like a dark room Frome" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 HBO competitor 18 Perform better
22Japanesesleuth than FADE N E S S PAP A L
Mr. _ 22Former A R I D U R S AN A R E N T
24 Lunch pair quarterback Dan I M A G I N A R Y F R I E N D
32 Don, as apparel 23 Being aired, asa N O P E T S S T E A K
33Keepone's__ sitcom T R E S S H M O S A H A
fhe ground 24dMascle cramp, SY L O ~ O
34 Miracle-__: e.g. R A L D O S E L B O W
garden product 25 Noticeable navel E D I T S M A Y O R S
35 Bickering 26 Citynear D R E A M V A C A T I O N
36 When Juliet Syracuse S E E N T O I R W I N
drinks the potion 27 Ten-year period T E A S E S C O R N O M S
37 Former Fed . 28Stopped A D D R A S P G L O A T
chairman slouching I S L E T F A U L T Y
Greenspan 529DomedArctic FANTASY FOOT B A L L
38 Incteto sntack, home ALT R R N
with "on" 30 Hart badly, as ALTER RANG ELiE
39 Rocket engineer chocolate N D STAY SAN D
Wernher von - 31 Sharpens xwordeditor@aol.com 09129/09
40 Pilot light site 1 2 a C a s 6 s10 11 12
41 Dinner pair
44 Lotion ingredient 13 4 15
45 "Glross!"
46 Fancy burger beef 1 17 1s
49 Just in case ss
54 Evening ball
game snack pair 122 23
57 in nof:
replacing 4 27 229 3 uu31
58 Abatedg3
59 Feedbag fill
60 "Benevolent" 36 s 37
fraternal order
61 Orchestral reed 3 3 40C
62 Estimate phrase as
DOWN 44 4s
1 Comfy soft shoes
2 Understand,in ae 4 as a 9 s1,2 s
slang
3 Mortgage " "
payment-lowenng 58s -
strategy, briefly
4 Sentimental so 61 t
place in the heart
5 Fluffy stoles By Dan Naddor

For Wednesday, Sept. 30, 2009 have fun today! Keep it light.
ARIES SCORPIO
(March 21 to April 19) (Oct. 23to Nov. 21)
This is a good day to enjoy casual Thisisa pleasant day to relax at home'
exchanges with friends and groups. or to entertain at home. Family gather-
Htowever, avoidimportant decisions. Do ings will be laidback and easygoing.
not volunteer for a nything. (Wait until (Avoid important decisions.)
tomorrow if you need to dv this.) SAGITTARIUS
TAURUS (Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
(April 20 to May 20) This is not a good day to sign docu-
Some aspect of your private life will ments or agree to things. It's not a good
probably be made public today. day to shop, either. However, interac-
Whatever happens, just go with the flow, tions with others will be pleasant and
and avoid making anyccommitments, social.
especially to authority figures! CAPRICORN
GEMINI (Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
(May 21 to June 20) Avoid important decisionsaboutbusi-
This is a goofy, pleasant day. ness, commerce, cash flow and your
However,it's not a good day to book possessions. Definitely avoid major
travel plans or sign important docu- expenditures today. (Wait until tomor-
ments. (Postpone important decisions row.)
until tomorrow.) AQUARIUS
CANCER (Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
(June 21 to July 22) This is sort of a goofy day. You might
This is a poor day to decide how to feel more emotional than usual.Quite
share something, or agree to anything likely, you will feel confused about
related to inheritances, insurance mat- which direction to take in whatever
tonshared property nd the like. you're doing.Just let itride. (Tomorrow
Tomovrrow your thinkivg is more is a stronger day.)
groundtd4. PISCES
LEO (Feb. 19 to March 20)
(July 23 to Aug. 22) This is a good day to enjoy solitude in
Enjoy social occasions withothers, beautiful surroundings. Kickback and
especially partners and close friends. relax. Take it easy. Avoid important deci-
However, postpone important decisions sions.
or agreements that might arise today. YOU BORN TODAY You are keenly
Wait until tomorrow. interested in everything around you,
VIRGO including society as a whole. Because of
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22) this, you are well-informed and knowl-
Your efficiency at work will suffer edgeable. In particular, you seek out hid-
today. Therefore, don't push the river. den truthsbecauseyouliketosolvemys-
Just get the minimum done. Be realistic teries. Your public image often attracts
about your expectations. (Tomorrow is attention to you. (Many of you are
far more productive.) attractive.) This year, a change will take
LIBRA place, perhaps something as significant
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22) as around 2001.
This is a wonderfully creative day. It's Birthdate of: Truman Capote, actor;
a good day for thearts,or arts and crafts. Angie Dickinson, actress; Fran
It's also pleasant day to pursue sports Drescher, actress.
and playful activities with children. Just
c(.)2009 King reatures Syndicate, Inc.

0

0

I

Ciassif ed Ad Information
-oPlacea n Ad:
Cal: 34-76,1-0557
Fax: 734-936-1054
Email: dalyclassifiedZgmailtcom
Hours: Mon - Fri 9am - 5pm
I. r 1 J u'.: fineas a :.is 11:3U-3oam oneea irx-K;; , y pr yor to p !ct- Classific tion:
0 - Lost Found
"ates .30 er "le "" th" irst s"sueand*2.15"'r lie t c~h 020 - For Sale
dll.' na -.:3sective :ssue, + Frequaency and EBulk contra..ts, ar,, a VaIble^^ 025 - Parking
co ,o ', ,= :or , Iss; ters rr may roeeive a' . ,ant When 00 utmov
ac:: ,rE paec eson With a validstudenutO n or nzar oval, ron 1 040 -C ompuers
ieosesny) . N m t I v.)pr oraid unlo > xior -i< n vdE+ges
f ,ave"D r esished * iw A , pt Vsa, Mcastorcard, Ameor ian Epre(Ss, 06-te1,~~9
L),4,c.v<er,.'si, or ChleCk "For C':las i disflay advertiing1C, please cal one 5 -Funiur
1dany 2 days 3 days 4 days 3 das 06 _Sa ervce..
2 lin.es - 22 i ? neo - 090 - Help Wanted
3 lin.es 093 s o sa- Summer Fmrloymnent
4 lin.s ... O '- , 095 - 0110,)care
"+ 0 - Tckets t hae
3 23 - ebs"t
Rae:. . . 130--Roommates
soaa 1340 - Food &. Entertainment
-. ._ un a. , ~0-Pes na

I

(,IS PCribune MediaServices, Inc.

V3!/Gif/VS7



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 29, 2009 - 7A

'U' study reveals vitamin D
link with high blood pressure

Res
vita
cha
pr(
Vitai
er won
increas
sure la
ongoin,
versity
Acco
Health
jects w
cy in 19
to have
sure w
in 2007
Publ
Griffin
study
epidem
nature
tain de
"It V

earch shows low (the vitamin D-blood pressure link-
age) stood out," she said.
imin D increases High blood pressure often
doesn't affect women until middle
nce of high blood age, Griffin said, but the findings
suggest that the vitamin D deficien-
essure threefold cy could serve asa warning sign.
"There may be something we
By DYLAN CINTI could do in younger age that has
For the Daily an impact on the trajectory of our
health," Griffin said.
min D deficiency in young- She added that one way to
men may be linked to an stave off high blood pressure is
ed risk of high blood pres- by increasing vitamin D intake by
ter in life, according to an getting more sun and eating foods
g study conducted by Uni- like fatty fish, milk, eggs and mush-
researchers. rooms.
trding to the Michigan Bone She added that in regions like
and Metabolism Study, sub- Michigan - where itis often cloudy
ho had a vitamin D deficien- - it could be difficult to get healthy
93 were three times as likely amounts of ultraviolet rays.
developed high blood pres- "It's important to start supple-
hen they were tested again menting, especially if there's a
7. possibility that failing to do so
ic Health student Flojaune could have a negative impact on
, a co-investigator of the our cardiovascular health," she
and doctoral candidate in said.
iology, said the longitudinal The study was based on annual
of the study allowed for cer- check ups of 559 Caucasian females
velopments to come to light. in Tecumseh, Mich. The main
was actually over time that objective was to document physi-

cal changes in women as they aged,
with a particular emphasis on bone
health. The relationship between
vitamin D and heart health was an
indirect finding.
Today, Griffin and Dr. Crystal
Gadegbeku, the study's co-author
and internal medicine associate
professor in the Medical School,
are presenting the study's findings
at the American Heart Associa-
tion's annual High Blood Pressure
Research Conference in Chicago.
While Griffin is optimistic
about the study's findings, she said
more research needs to be done
to account for racial disparities in
blood pressure.
"Future studies need to be done
to really flesh out what's going on,"
Griffin said.
Griffin is also currently investi-
gating the disparity in high blood
pressure between black and white
women in a separate study called
the Study of Women's Health
Across the Nation.
Griffin said more research will
"help develop nuanced public
health messages to ensure that we
are optimizing health."

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daly
University President Mary Sue Coleman meets with members of SACUA, the leading faculty governing body, yesterday.

COLEMAN
From Page 1A
President's 100 NewFacultyInitia-
tive, Coleman dodged the question
saying she would talk about the
program at her State of the Univer-
sity address on Oct. 5.
"Come to the State of the Uni-
versity address, because I'm going
to be talking about it," Coleman
said with a laugh.
Coleman did tell SACUA mem-
bers that she felt the University
was in a good position to be hiring
the new, interdisciplinary faculty
because so many other universities

aren't currently hiring.
Coleman also said she would
update the University community
on the North Campus Research
Complex as part of her State of the
University address.
"You'll be hearing more about
that," Coleman said. "It's certainly
been a major focus of mine."
Coleman also reassured SACUA
members that she will make imple-
mentation of the Recreational
Sports Task Force a top priority in
the upcoming year.
"We need to figure out a way
that we can tackle it," Coleman
said. "We haven't quite come to
grips with how we're going to do

that, but it is high on my agenda for
issues totake on this year."
Coleman said two logical
approaches would be to either
increase the number of recreation-
al facilities across campus or to
build larger, centralized facilities.
"One of the things that worries
me about a big, new central facility
is that I don't know how we would
fund it right now," Coleman said,
adding that additional facilities
spread across campus may be the
prudent thing to do with the Uni-
versity's tightbudget.
- Cassie Belfour
contributed to this report.

For Obama, Olympics plea a gamble


RESEARCH
From Page 1A
put together a very strong response
to the challenge," Assanis said.
The Michigan Memorial Phoenix
Energy Institute, which was found-
ed in 1948 as a World War II memo-
rial, was initially intended to explore
peaceful uses of nuclear energy but
has since broadened its scope to
all energy research. Recently, the
MMPEI has pursued education
ABROAD
From Page 1A
tracted the virus, because not all
students were tested for the flu.
LeBlanc wrote that a small num-
ber of students exhibited H1N1
symptoms during the summer,
and OIP responded by directly
contacting them.
"We communicate with stu-
dents on an individual basis once
we are aware they are ill, and try
to ensure they have what they
need for a safe and complete
recovery," she wrote.
LeBlanc added that OIP takes
the health and safety of students
studying abroad "very seriously."
The office constantly moni-
tors international areas through
the World Health Organization
and Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention websites. OIP
also seeks advice from University
medical officials.
When the H1N1 virus broke out
in April, the University cancelled
and suspended abroad programs
in Mexico - where the virus orig-
inated. As compensation, the Uni-
versity offered alternate locations
for students to study, in other
Spanish-speaking countries like
the Dominican Republic, Costa
Rica and Spain.
LeBlanc wrote that there has
been less of a concern about H1N1
since the virus emerged in the
spring.
"In addition to the information
shared by medical professionals
at (the University), we are aware
that the current status of H1N1
influenza outbreaks in most inter-
national locations is less severe
now than it was in April/May of
this year, or even later in the sum-
mer," she wrote.
According to the World Health
Organization, as of Sept. 20,
the H1N1 virus has caused 3,917
deaths in 191 countries - with
more than 300,000 confirmed
cases worldwide.
In an interview last month,
Chief Health Officer Robert Win-
field said there has been a "con-
tinuing level" of H1N1 across the
world, particularly in the south-
ern hemisphere.
"It's been quite active in the
southern hemisphere in Austra-
lia, South America (and) southern
Africa," Winfield said. "That's
because this is the winter time,
which is the typical time for influ-
enza."
LSA senior Allison Grekin said
she believes she contracted the
H1N1 virus when she was study-
ing abroad at the University of
Oxford in England this summer.
Out of 40 students in the pro-
gram, Grekin said 10 of them
had the flu. Although she was

projects focused on improving the
design of batteries, electric motors
and electric vehicles.
"As the fate of Michigan and
other states are emerging in these
new industries, we're going to
need people with these new skills,"
Assanis said. "Someone will need
to educate and change the future
workforce."
Duderstadt said the growing
importance of energy sustainabil-
ity and its connection to global
climate change may be the next

significant shift in research focus.
Faculty, he said, will follow the
path of funding and will be reac-
tive to the decisions made by the
Obama administration as it col-
laborates with Congress.
"Over the next 10 to 20 years,
as a nation and as a world, we're
going to have make some really
tough decisions," Duderstadt said.
"Right now, we don't have either
the scientific information or the
technological capability to make
those decisions wisely."

Pre:
De
forI
WAS
dent Ba
to Den:
Olympic
to an is
- and e
as well
in his pi
Obar
hagenc
time aI
before
Commi
pics. O
couldn'
needed
debate

sident will fly to As the White House announced
the change of heart on Monday,
nmark to lobby there seemed to be increasing
confidence that the votes could be
Chicago's bid to stacking up Chicago's way to host
the 2016 Summer Games. If ChM-
host games cago does come away the victor in
the four-way race - Madrid, Rio
HINGTON (AP) - Presi- de Janeiro and Tokyo are the other
rack Obama's decision to fly contenders - Obama could get a
mark to support Chicago's political boost for helping to deliver
cs bid elevates the Games the Games to his adopted home-
sue of national importance town and for handing the U.S. a
xposes him to political risks fresh source of national pride.
as rewards at a critical point If the U.S. loses, he still might get
residency. points for trying. But he would be
na's presentation in Copen- visibly tied to a failed effort - and
on Friday will be the first to the spending of political capi-
U.S. president has appeared tal on an endeavor many Ameri-
the International Olympic cans might consider unworthy of
ttee to lobby for an Olym- so much of a president's time and
bama initially had said he energy.
t make the trip because he , This is something Obama can,
to tend to the health care ill afford when the public already
at home. shows signs of fatigue with his'

major efforts on so many fronts at
once, many so far unfulfilled.
"If you actually go to Copenha-
gen and meet with the Olympic
committee, you're really on the
line to deliver," said Darrell West, a
politicalanalyst at the Washington-
based Brookings Institution.
The president already has a lot
on the line.
He's re-examining his adminis-
tration's strategy in Afghanistan,
managing the shaky U.S. economy
and pushing hard for health care
overhaul.
Aides say Obama didn't make
the decision to travel until this past
weekend, after he returned home
from the G-20 economic summit in
Pittsburgh and consulted with first
lady Michelle Obama and senior
adviser Valerie Jarrett. They both
were already planning to:traveltwo
Copenhagen as the U.S. delegation
leaders, due to depart Tuesday.


not officially tested for H1N1,
Grekin said she believed she had
it because she exhibited the virus'
symptoms, which include a fever
over 100.4 degrees, coughing, a
sore throat, aching muscles and
vomiting.
In line with the University of
Michigan's current policy, the
University of Oxford told ill stu-
dents to isolate themselves in their
rooms, where resident advisors
brought them meals. Students
there were also prohibited from
going to a doctor because health
officials feared contagious patients
would spread the flu.
After missing one week of
classes, Grekin said she fell far
behind with her coursework.
"My professors had to cre-
ate special assignments for me
because I couldn't complete what
was on the syllabus," she said,
adding that her professors were
understanding and willing to
make adjustments.
"The flu destroyed the regular
syllabus and the regular amount
of studying we had to do," she
said.
But even healthy students ran
into problems while studying
overseas this summer.
LSA junior Grayson Smith
traveled to China this summer
with about 15 other students from
across the country. When they
arrived at the airport in Haikou,
medical officials boarded the
plane to take every passenger's
temperature.
According to Smith, one boy in
the group had a slightly elevated
temperature and was sent to the
hospital for the night. The rest
of the students were taken to
Hainan University, where they
were supposed to study for nine
weeks, but they were quaran-
tined in a building on the edge of
campus.
At specific times twice per day,
people came to check their tem-
peratures. Smith said they were
discouraged from socializing
with each other and had to isolate
themselves in their rooms for one
week.
"We had to relax and take it
easy, which was kind of a bummer
because everyone was so excited
to get there," he said.
Since people worldwide had
concerns about the H1N1 virus,
Smith said what happened to
him wasn't "completely out of the
blue," but that the steps taken for
healthy individuals were unex-
pected.
"What surprised us more was
how we were treated," he said.
"We were sort of held in the dark
about exactly what was going
on and how exactly this was an
effective way to prevent us from
infecting she Chinese commu-

nity."
The U.S. Department of State
has placed a travel alert to all U.S.
citizens traveling to China. The
message - warning of China's
stric toeasuresof quarantining
passengers who have fevers or
influenza symptoms - expires
Dec. 30, 2009.
According to LeBlanc, this is
not an issue for OIP because there
are no students traveling to China
through University programs this
fall.
Other students traveling this
semester, like LSA junior Katrina
Lewis, have been told to practice
good health habits so they don't
get sick.
Lewis is studying at L'Institut
d'Etudes Politique d'Aix-en-
Provence in France. She wrote
in an e-mailinterview that the
university has taken measures
to inform students how to stay
healthy.
"I have seen many 'cover your
cough' posters and other posters
detailing hand washing or other
useful prevention techniques,"
she wrote.
Although Lewis said she has
not heard of anyone getting the
virus on campus, she said the uni-
versity plans to close for a week if
three or more cases appear.
LSA seniors Chelsea Roth and
Leah Hoffheimer were studying
together at John Cabot University
in Rome when the first cases of
H1N1 surfaced in Mexico.
Roth said many Europeans
were not nervous about the flu
because "it was something that
was kind of far away."
Hoffheimer said the hype they
experienced came from talking to
their parents and listening to the
news.
"We became obsessed with
American news, and we all made
CNN our homepage," she said.
"We were constantly checking to
see what was going on."
According to Roth, American
students were mostly worried
about flying back to the United
States, especially when govern-
ment officials advised against
traveling on airplanes.
"The day before we left, Vice
President (Joe) Biden made that
target comment that he wouldn't
fly or have his family get on a
plane," she said.
But everyone made it home safe
safely and healthy.
LeBlanc wrote that the H1N1
virus is still on OIP's radar, but
there are also other concerns to
follow.
"We continue to carefully mon-
itor all areas of the world, and
try to keep an eye on the bigger
picture in terms of health, safety
and security, not just the flu," she
rote.


4

8A - Tuesday, September 29, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

Rodriguez says
Forcier should
play vs. MSU

SAID ALSALAH/Daiy
Sophomore Darryl Stonum ranks 15th in the country with more than 32 yards per kick return. The Wolverines' special teams unit is vastly improved from last seasonA
Don't overlook the special teams

et's take a look back to a
dark time, one that most
Michigan fans would like to
erase from their memories forever.
In South
Bend last sea-
son, the Wol-
verines muffed
and lost two
consecutive
kickoffs within
10 minutes of
each other, giv- ANDY
ing Notre DameR D
a 14-point hand-
icap that helped
it coast to a 35-17 victory.
The coaching staff mixed up
the returners the next week. And
the next week. And the next.
None of it helped.
The special teams unit repeat-
edly put the team in perilous
situations, which obviously didn't
help the struggling defense,
a downcast bunch that had to
march back on the field immedi-
ately after forcing a rare punt.
Nowadays, Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez doesn't like to
talk about last season or make
comparisons between the 2008

and 2009 versions of his team.
He'll rarely respond fully to a
question that makes any reference
to the numbers three and nine.
But he let one comment slip
when asked about the special
teams.
"Last year we couldn't even
catch the kick from what I remem-
ber," Rodriguez said during his
weekly Monday press conference
after the Notre Dame game this
year. "We were happy to catch a
kick and fall down."
Rodriguez couldn't contain him-
self - not when the special teams
have made such leaps and bounds
in just a year. And of course, it's the
offense that's garneringthe atten-
tion for bailing out the defense
after a porous performance against
Indiana.
That makes sense, especially
with the emergence of Tate "The
Great" Forcier as the face of the
program. But don't forget about the
returngame, which has quickly
gone from one of the team's glaring
weaknesses to arguably its biggest
strength.
Darryl Stonum is ranked 15th
in the country with more than 32

yards per kick return, no doubt bol-
stered by his 92-yard touchdown in
the first half against Notre Dame.
Against the Hoosiers, Stonum was
rarely stopped inside the 30-yard
line, relievingsome of the pressure
on Forcier and giving him, and the
offense, stellar field position all
game long.
But even that isn't good enough
for Stonum.
"He's probably going to be disap-
pointed, because he was probably
within one trip-up, two or three
times, of taking it the distance,"
Rodriguez said after the game.
And that's with Stonum trying
to recover from a slight hamstring
stinger.
There is no unit in football that is
hung out to dry more when things
aren't going smoothly. I mean, think
of the old adage - what's the only
time anyone care about the long
snapper? Yep, when he screws up.
The Wolverines clearly discov-
ered that last year, when Michi-
gan fans held their breath before
every opposing-team punt.
But it's not all negative. Special
teams can make the highlight
reel, too. Just ask Frank Beamer.

The head coach at Virginia
Tech has preached solid funda-
mentals in the kicking game since
he took over in 1987, and since
then, more than 25 different play-
ers have scored special teams
touchdowns on his squad.
In fact, the Hokies led the
nation in blocked punts through
the 1990s, while Beamer and his
special-teams-heavy "Beamerball"
helped bring the Virginia Tech
program to national prominence.
Special teams is key if the Wol-
verines want to keep winning this
season, especially with a young
quarterback and a few injury con-
cerns on the line, which means
the offense is going to sputter at
points this season.
With a solid return game - and
not to mention, one of the best
punters in the nation, which is a
great field-position booster, too -
the Wolverines can easily swing
momentum ina single play.
Honestly, what's more exciting
than a kick return? Remember
Steve Breaston?
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu

ByRUTH LINCOLN
DailySportsEditor
Tate Forcier winced in pain as
a teammate gave him a congratu-
latory shoulder pat last Saturday
during the Michigan football
team's win over Indiana.
From Forcier's expression
in the You-
Tube clip, one NOTEBOOK
could infer the
shoulder injury looked painful.
But the Wolverine faithful can
breathe a sigh of relief. Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez said
yesterday that Forcier should be
cleared to play Saturday against
Michigan State.
At the same time, protect-
ing the freshman quarterback's
6-foot-1, 188-pound frame
remains a hot topic. Rodriguez
said Forcier is generally honest
about his injuries.
"He's a tough guy, but he'll tell
you, too." Rodriguez said. "Tate
will have a little drama, once in
a while, and tell you what is going
on. But he loves to compete and
he loves to play."
Forcier's smaller size gives
him quickness, which he has
shown with his two running
touchdowns this season. But his
physicality and health remain
concerns.
Rodriguez said he expects
Forcier and fellow freshman
quarterback Denard Robinson to
add muscle mass as they evolve in
Mike Barwis' strength and con-
ditioning program. In the mean-
time, preventative measures will
have to do.
"When a big hit is inevitable,
you don't have to take it," Rodri-
guez said. "If you've already got
the first down, you can take a
quick step out of bounds. If you're
downfield, and you've already got
the first down, there are ways to
slide or get down."
But even sliding could backfire
for Forcier. Former Tulane quar-
terback Shaun King, who played
under Rodriguez when he was
the Green Wave's offensive coor-
dinator from 1997-98, found the
technique wasn't a fit.
"He was the worst slider there
was," Rodriguez said with a
laugh. "He almost hurt himself
sliding, so I said, 'Shaun, you can
just roll or something.' "
CLOSE THE DOORS: It's rivalry
week, and at Schembechler Hall,
the Michigan coaching staff isn't
taking any chances.
To prepare for Satur-
day's game, Rodriguez said

the Wolverines will tighten
media availability, closing off
Wednesday's open practice to
allow his team to focus on the
upcoming game.
"I want our guys to know how
much focus goes into this ball
game," Rodriguez said. "I don't
think I have to do that, particu-
larly with our older guys, but our
younger guys need to know it is a
little different."
The Wolverines' outdoor prac-
tice field is visible from the Sta-
dium Drive bridge, just south of
the field. Rodriguez said on a typ-
ical day, associate athletic direc-
tor Scott Draper and other staff
members will watch the bridge
for outsiders.
With the Wolverines being just
an hour away from East Lansing,
Rodriguez wants to take extra
precautions.
"Being coaches, being para-
noid ... I trust you all, but maybe
somebody snuck in there from
Lansing. I don't know," Rodri-
guez said with a laugh.
MOLK UPDATE: When fifth-
year senior David Moosman
filled in for redshirt sophomore
David Molk Saturday, it took just
a few botched snaps to remember
Molk.
"They were a little off here or
there, but you get spoiled when
David (Molk) was there, because
it looked like just about every
snap was just right," Rodriguez
said.
Molk had foot surgery last
Monday, and is expected to be out
three to five more weeks. Rodri-
guez said Molk has a pin in place
and access to a "bone stimulator"
which can be applied for hours to
accelerate the healing process.
According to Rodriguez, Molk
has been using the device "every
chance he can."
"He says it doesn't hurt at all,"
Rodriguez said. "Knowing David,
he has a great pain tolerance.
He'll be out as soon as he can.
But we're not going to put him
out there with any risk of further
injury."
THE HUNT FOR OCTOBER:
The Wolverines are an impres-
sive 404-117-13 all time in the
month of October.
But under Rodriguez, not so
much.
The Michigan coach went 0-4
in his first October last season,
losing to Illinois, Toledo, Penn
State and Michigan State.
In his seven seasons at West
Virginia, Rodriguez posted a 16-8
record in the month of October.

I

4

4

4

Beilein stops by Maize Rage's meeting

0

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
It's no surprise that at its mass
meeting last night, the Maize Rage
ran out of chairs.
"We thought we were going to
get 60 to 75 people," said junior
Nick Mattar, the Michigan basket-
ball student section president. "We
put up 80 chairs, and we got maybe
120 people."
Last year, with the Wolverines
coming off a 10-win season, 480
students bought tickets.
But after last season's second-
round finish in the NCAA Tourna-
ment, nearly 2,000 more student
tickets have been sold.
In order to make sure Crisler
Arena doesn't encounter the same
seating issues as the Maize Rage did
at their meeting, the athletic depart-
ment overhauled the ticket policy.
The ticket policy for the student
bleachers will be on a first come,
first serve basis. For the students
sitting elsewhere in Crisler Arena,
seating will be assigned. An impor-
tant twist to the ticket policy is that

the students who come to the most
games will receive priority seating
in the bleachers for the Connecticut
and Michigan State games.
But the Maize Rage as a group
has more issues to deal with than
just seating. Mattar mentioned the
need for more organization within
the group on game days, citing
times last year when the different
parts of the student section chanted
different phrases simultaneously.
To tackle that problem, Mattar has
instituted section leaders, experi-
enced group members that will lead
a specific group of the student sec-
tion in chants duringthe games.
"We are going to make an effort
to make this one, unified group,"
Mattar said.
So far, the group has succeeded
in attracting new members.
"I love being a fan, and if there's
a way to get more fans involved
through more organization, I'm
there," he said.
Would he still have joined the
group if the team had been worse
last year?
"Of course."

The Maize Rage will have almost 2,000 more students than last season.

Even Michigan coach John Beil-
ein showed up, saying that when he
was asked to make an appearance at
the meeting, it was a "no-brainer."
He was met with raucous applause
and thanked all those in attendance.
Beilein stressed how he wants
the Maize Rage to be more con-
nected to the players, even saying
he would be able to get some play-
ers to come to a few of the Maize
Rage's weekly meetings.

Beilein spoke briefly about Mich-
igan's exceedingly difficult sched-
ule to begin the season, saying it
was "one of the toughest in the
country." The team's early-season
schedule includes games against
Boston College, Utah and Kansas,
as well as a game against Connecti-
cut in the middle of Big Ten play.
"It helps when they have not only
their fans behind them, but their
friends behind them," Beilein said.


GREAT LAKES WATER QU A LITY
IV h rj

Weather dominates
Blue at Invitational
By SCOTT SUH ed out the top three for the Wol-
For the Daily verines, with scores of 232 and
233, respectively.
The weather stole the spotlight Most notable in the extended
from the Michigan women's golf tournament was the lack of sub-
team and the field of competition 300 overall team scores in the
in the two-day Lady Northern final round. As Purdue was the
Invitational. only team to post a score under
After unplayable weather con- 300, which was a stark contrast
ditions pushed back the comple- to the opening round, in which
tion of the second round from golfers played in better weather
Sunday afternoon to early yes- and five teams posted scores
terday morning, rain and wind under 300.
persisted throughout the day at "Sometimesyoujusthave abad
the University Ridge Golf Course tournament, and it's one of those
in Madison. The poor conditions things that you have to putbehind
led to high scores for each of the you," Stacy said. "But I think all
15 teams competing in the tour- the girls know that they have to
nament. work harder to get better. A lot of
Despite the uncertain condi- us need to work on hitting more
tions, the Wolverines battled greens to take off a little more
through 27 demanding holes yes- pressure and not have to scramble
terday en route to a 10th place to get up and down all the time."
finish. Purdue won the tourna- The Wolverines will return
ment with a team score of one- to the same course in April for
over par 865. the Big Ten Championships. But
Senior captain Ashley Bauer before they focus on that, Michi-
once again led the way for the gan will turn its attention to
Wolverines, posting the team's Northwestern's 54-hole Windy
lowest score. Bauer's score of 222 City Collegiate on Oct. 5-6. They
held her just out of the top 10, as will travel to Chicago on Sunday
she tied for 11th overall, in preparation for the two-day
"Ashley had a good tourna- tournament.
ment, though I think she was "This year is just going to be
a little disappointed, because I a building year, and we have to
know her expectations are very be as positive as we can," Stacy
high and she was trying to win said. "But ultimately, the golf-
the tournament," Michigan coach ers understand what Michigan's
Cheryl Stacy said. expectations are, and they know
Junior Min Yean Tan and that they are going to have to
sophomore Meagan Bauer round- work harder to get better."


0

7.7-w

S V V V V

w

w

w

v


One year. That's what it takes to prepare our District
Managers for success. More than training, it's an
exclusive hands-on experience complete with salary.
A learning opportunity that immerses you in our
day-to-day operations, and teaches you our business
inside and out. At ALDI our investment in you begins
with ensuring you're heading in the right direction.
The responsibility. The success. And the rewards.
Welcome to More.

....................


w w w w w


v

w

w

v

w

w

s

v

w

v

Th ihgnDiy-TesaSpe br2,2 0

Tusdy Sptmer29 009-TeMcia ai*6

Like any good student, get
a headstart on job
hunting by planning ahead.

AVOIDING
From Page 6B
Unpaid internships

Tomorrow 9.29.09

Friday 10.2.09

Sunday 10.11.09

Thursday 10.15.09

Friday 10.16.09

Grad School 101: Alumni panel on
Fall Career Expo Business Career Interview Prep 101 Making an Io o nraition
MakingsanInformed non-traditional
What: A career fair where stu-Ed c t nFn n e What: A presentation by the w& . __


dents can learn about intern- Panel
ships and jobs, connect with
employers and organizations,
engage in on-campus inter- Wha
views, network and explore seniors a
their future career options. explain wt
More than 50 organizations are available i
expected. their expei
When: 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. When:'
Where: The Michigan Union Where:

A panel of Business
nd career counselors
hat types of careers are
n finance and talk about
'lences in the field.
11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m.
Ross School of Business

".OU. -,N i~avv o1,_Decision
Business School's Marketing
Club about how to nail an inter-
view. What: A pr
When: 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. graduate scho
Where: Ross School of from why you
Business graduate sch

should apply t
When: Th:
from 4:30 p.m
Where: Ele
ing and Comp

esentation about
ol considerations,
should consider
ool to when you
o programs.
ursday, Oct. 15
. to 5:30 p.m.
ctrical Engineer-
uter Science

careers
What: A panel of Engineering
alumni - including Marc Allen,
Aladin Boriek, Courtney Jor-
gensen and Cole Shaw - talk
about their experiences with
alternative careers and how to
approach them.
When:1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Where: Robert H. Lurie Engi-
neering Center

While they might not be the
most financially savvy decision
for a debt-ridden college gradu-
ate, unpaid internships provide
various opportunities for students
unable to find or commit to a full-
time job right out of school.
Unlike in the classroom, unpaid
internships offer students the abil-
itytogettheirhands dirty.The Uni-
versity offers invaluable resources,
but it's not until students enter the
real world that those lessons can
be put into practice.
Unpaid internships also give
students the opportunity to net-
work with skilled professionals in
various fields. Establishing rela-
tionships can sometimes be the

most valuable aspect of an unpaid
internship.
Unpaid internships give gradu-
ates the opportunity to explore a
career field and determine if it is
what they truly want to do before
embarking on an actual career in
that particular area. It gives them
a sense of whether they'd like to
continue in that direction or pos-
sibly pursue a new area of study.
Although unpaid internships
offer some great benefits, there is
one obvious downside - the fore-
most of which is not getting paid.
There is also the uncertainty of
whether the internship will actu-
ally lead to a future job.
- BETHANY BIRON

Tuesday 10.13.09

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER,
@michdaily
@michdailynews

The Power of
Networking
What: An event to how net-
working can enhance your
career prospectives. It will look
at how to get started and how
to maintain your network of
connections.
When: 4:30 p.m. to 5:30
p.m.
Where: Chrysler Center

Wednesday 1014.09
Graduate School
Information Fair
What: An event for students
to learn about more than 100
graduate schools, ask questions
and connect with representa-
tives from programs across the
country
When: 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Where: The Michigan Union

Fall Career Expo
Wednesday, September 30th
2:00-6:00pm / The Michigan Union
Discuss full-time job and internship opportunities
with organizations from across the country
Connect with organizations interviewing this fall
at The Career Center
Dress professionally and bring your resume
'visit Our website for a list of participatin
organizations (ww.careercener.,inch.edo)
Your Story "Your CommunityYour Presentation
Contact us at: 3200 SA B - 764-7460 . w-ww.careercenter,um ch.es u

Thursday 10.22.09
International
Opportunities Fair
What: A career fair geared
toward students and organi-
zations with an international
focus. More than 40 organiza-
tions are expected to attend.
When: 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Where: The Michigan Union

WANT TO BE A PART
OF THE DAILY'S 121ST
BIRTHDAY?
JOIN US.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/
JOIN-US

Seniors thinking about international
Peace Corps service, NOW is the best time to apply!
Contact University of Michigan Peace Corps Representatives:
Mahima Mahadevan and Alex Pompe
International Center, Room 10
603 E. Madison Street
Phone: 734.647.2182
E-mail: Peace.Corps@umich.edu
Office Hours: Tuesdays, 12 - 2 p.m., Thursdays, 4 - 5 p.m., and
Fridays, 9 a.m. - 2 p.m., or by appointment
Attend an Information Session to learn more:
Wed., Sept. 23 at 12 p.m., school of Natural Resources, Rm 2024
Thurs., Oct. 22 at 7 p.m., Michigan Union
Tues., Nov. 3 at 6 p.m., Ford School of Pub. Policy, Fisher Classroom 1220
Tues., Dec. 1 at 6:30 p.m., U-M International Center, Rm 9
PEACE CORPS NEEDS APPLICANTS WITH DEGREES & SKILLS IN:
Agriculture & Forestry.- Environment - Education & English Teaching
Math & Science - Health Education . Public Health
Business Development . French and Spanish

Explore the basics of biomedical technology innovation
through an intensive, hands-on fellowship at Stanford
University's BiodesignProgram. Graduate Engineers,
Business Professionals, Bioscientists and Physicians learn
the key stages of the Biodesign Process: identification and
verification of clinical needs, brainstorming, invention,
prototyping, patenting and more.
APPLICATION DEADLINE October 16, 2009

Wednesday 11.11.09
How to Start
a Nonprofit
Organization
What: An event for Business
students about how to begin
your own nonprofit organiza-
tion
When: 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Where: Ross School of
Business

w .
^ °,:

800.424.8580
www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?



0


w

w

a

Avoiding the rea Iworld Sure waysto putofj gh
: ranks of the workforce t
Graduate school

Stay in school.
With rising global compe-
tition, the value of an under-
graduate degree is dropping.
Students looking for an edge in
x the employment market need
even more higher education to
bolster their resumes.
Graduate school options
include further education in
law, medicine and business as
well as masters and doctoral
degrees in specific disciplines.
Just as students take the
SAT and ACT for undergradu-
ate admissions, many prospec-
tive graduate students take
the Graduate Records Exami-
......................................
Traveling
Always wanted to see
the world but never had the
time? Well, if you can't find
a job after college, perhaps
traveling is the right option
for you - and it may even
be an economical one, too.
According to a survey
conducted by the Ameri-
can Council on Education,
93 percent of students
said they wanted to study
abroad during their under-
graduate years but didn't
get the chance.
So why not after col-
lege? For some, the fear of
adapting to a new social
environment or not know-
ing the language can be a
deterrent. But for many, the
main concern is money.
Paying for traveling and
cost of living expenses can
be far outside any students'

H W I T Q THERE'S NO PLEASANT WAY TO PUT THIS: SEARCHING FOR A JOB IS HARD.
ByALLIE WHITE LANDING AN INTERVIEW IS EVEN HARDER. IF YOU'RE LUCKY ENOUGH TO BE
OFFERED AN OPPORTUNITY TO INTERVIEW FOR A POSITION, YOU WANT TO
GET IT RIGHT. JERRELL MCCOWIN, A CAREER COUNSELOR AT THE UNIVER-
SITY'S CAREER CENTER, SHARES 10 THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT
INTERVIEWS TO MAKE SURE YOU SUCCEED.

nation (GRE). There are also
specific entrance examinations
required for other professional
programs, including the LSAT
for law school and the MCAT
for medical school.
Butbefore deciding to attend
graduate school, one should
consider the cost.
According to the U.S. News
and World Report, annual
tuition and books alone at lower
tier universities are reaching a
cost of $9,000 per year, while
private school tuition can run
northof $30,000. Whenperson-
al expenses and living expenses
are added to that bill, going to
........... ....................... ..
budget, especially those
leaving campus with hefty
student loans.
But students shouldn't
dismiss traveling so quick-
ly. One option could be
working abroad.
With some research, stu-
dents can find opportuni-
ties to work abroad whether
through international
internships, fellowships
and even volunteering.
If you do decide to go
abroad after college, be
smart about it. Do your
research. Be sure to search
out job and volunteer
opportunities in the coun-
try in which you want to
travel.
If you want to just go for
a visit, be sure to decide and
calculate your budget for
your trip. This could mean

grad school on the cheap canbe
a nearly impossible task.
Financial relief is also rare,
with less than 4 percent of grad-
uate students receiving grants
and fewer than 20 percent
receiving any scholarship at all,
which means that 60 percent of
students do not receive a dol-
lar of aid, according to the U.S.
News and World Report.
Graduate school, while
stressful, has a long-term pay-
off.
A graduate degree signifi-
cantly increases one's chances
in a competitive job market,
boosts potential financial
figuring out transportation
costs, where you'll stay and
what you'll do when you get
there.
Remember to be flexible
and reasonable. Traveling
can be a once-in-a-lifetime=
experience with many
opportunities to network
for a career, explore the
world and learn more about
yourself.
-VANESSA NUNEZ

earnings and provides great-
er potential to advance one's
career. In addition, compared
to the undergraduate experi-
ence, graduate school offers
students more opportunities for
research.
Completing a graduate
degree can take from two to
seven years and can create large
amounts ofdebt. Admissionsar
very competitive and the work-
load is not light, since many stu-
dents are required to teach in
addition to taking classes and
performingresearch. But it may
just all be worth it.
- GRACELIN BASKARAN MAXC
..........................T ..... . ....
Teach for Amerca

1 Prepare ...
over-prepare:
d'personal friends

With tough economic condi-
tions, an increasing number of
college graduates are pursuing
a community service resume
builder with some hands-on
results tobackitup. One partic-
ular favorite, especially among
University students, has been
Teach forAmerica.
TFA is a selective corps ofcol-
lege graduates from a variety of
disciplines who spend two years
working in needy schools across
the nation. The goal is to elimi-
nate the educational inequali-
ties by putting new leaders into
these environments.
On average, 6 percent of
students graduate from col-
lege at the schools where TFA
is present, accordingto founder
Wendy Kopp.
Currently, TFA is ranked as
one of the top 10 employers of
recent college graduates and

the only non-profit on that list.
The University of Michigan
fed more graduates to Teach
for America in 2009 than any
other school with more than
10,000 undergraduates.
The 2009 TFA corps was
composed of 4,100 graduates,
80 of which were University
graduates, who were selected
frommorethan35,000 applida-
tions. The average grade point
average was a 3.6.
One of the strongestbenefits
of the Corps is the experience,
which few other options rival.
Also, if students are unsure
about graduate school, it gives
them time to build their resume
while earning a salary.
The experience can be
draining though. According
to a Harvard research study,
approximately 10 percent of
members leave after their first

AP
year. However the rigorous
application and interview-
ing process strives to find the
strongest leaders who will not
only take on but also succeed at
the challenge set before them.
Corps members are hired by
school districts and receive the
same health care benefits and
starting salaries asother teach-
ers. Typical salaries range from
$27,000-$47,000.
- GRACELIN BASKARAN
ods of time as volunteers only
get two days off a month, which
does not allow for a lot of travel-
ing back home.
- LAURA BRUNNER

"Research is an important part of the
process...Interviewers will be impre
you're that interested and passionate
job that you've taken time to researcha
stand what the corporation is about, b
doing that, they'll feel like you're a go
that you'll be able to transition into th
tion.
"Do your research. Over prepare."
+) You will be
t) judged onw
youvM
"Wherever you're interviewing, dre:
els above where they are. So if they're in
might want to go business casual, and if
business casual, you might wantto go a
that. Coming into an interview, if every
office is wearing jeans, and you're wea
how seriously are you taking the interv

interview
essed that wi1 yoUrresume:
about the
and under- "Know your resume. Be prepared that every-
ecause by thing on your resume is fair game to talk about
ood fit and and discuss in the interview."
o corpora-
Know thyself:
"Knowing yourself, knowing all the
at experiences you've had, knowing yourself and
1 reflecting on those experiences. When you're in
an interview, they're going tobe asking you ques-
V adI tions that you might have to give examples for,
and within those examples, you want to be able
ss two lev- to pull out something for that. And if you haven't
jeans, you done any reflecting, if you haven't really sat down
f they're in and thought about what you've done, you might
step above be stuck and may or may not come up with some-
'one in the thing on the spot."
ring jeans,
iew?"
m Prepare, part II:
"Bring copies of [your] resume. Bring referenc-
es, if possible, because if they really enjoy you and
think you're a good candidate, they might ask for them on
the spot, That shows how much interest you have, that you've
prepared yourself. You might also want to bringsome paper...
a pen, because you might want to take notes."
Always follow up:
"Thank you notes are important and
they're necessary. To follow up, to show
appreciation, it's thoughtful and courteous and employers
appreciate it. When you don't, they're surprised. Following
up with a thank you note would be a way of showing you're
interested in the position and showing your appreciation that
they took time out to give you this opportunity."

Moving back home
Amid the battle in a tough home affords the comfort of
job market, many post-grads home-made meals and fully-
welcome the comfort and stocked fridges. Less time is
convenience home has to required for laundry, cleaning
offer. Returning home after and dishes which would oth-
college is a practical means erwise be time-consuming for
to boost finances and ease the any single person to manage.)
transition between college But then again, this does
and career. mean moving back home.
The return home allows Say goodbye to some free
graduates to expand their dom. Parents may expect help
finances and address any stu- around the house, appointing
dent loans early on. They are chores and errands that would after graduation is certainly a
also spared from rent expens- otherwise be self-scheduled tug-of-war between indepen-
es that may easily devour a or avoided altogether. dence and financial stability.
startingsalary and leave them For many graduates, living Either way, it's always nice
with little to spend on utilities on their own may be desir- to know there's home sweet
and other necessities. able but difficult to manage. home.
Finances aside, living at The option of returning home - LILLIAN XIAO

Peace Corps
Ifyou're lookingto delayyour v
career life a few extra years, fI
why not start with a program g
introduced right on the steps of I
the Michigan Union?
The Peace Corps offers i
numerous benefits, one of t
which is deferment of most stu- is
dent loans, which could come y
in handy with a lack of income.-n
Another would be full medical
insurance and affordable health t
insurance up to 18 months after.g
Volunteering would expose s
graduates to different cultures r
and languages - all of which r
are important in today's global
economy. And after complet- a
ing two years in the program,v

'olunteers can be hired in the
ederal government without
going through the competitive
process.
The Peace Corps covers liv-
ng expense, but only enough
o live like the locals. When fin-
shed with your service, though,
'ou receive $6,000 as adjust-
ment money.
On the opposite side of
hings, joining the Peace Corps
gives no definite promise of any
solid employment afterward,
egardless of the amazing expe-
iences one has gained.
Those who volunteer would

Follow these tips to make sure you get noticed in a tough job market.
r, Set your watch 15
04minutes early:
"Be on time, that's very important. I would say, be early
just in case' Coming late, the interviewer is definitely going
to question that. You haven't even gotten the job yet ... you'll
probably be late to the first day of the job."
Nowthatyou know
thyself, bethyself:
"Be yourself. Think about what they're looking for. Make
connections. Use all the tools you have to explain yourself."

Don't forget about
body language:
"Outward appearance and how you project yourself is
important. Be aware of your body language. You want to be
square, have eye contact ... make sure you shake their hand
firmly."
()Be'curious:
"Towards the end of the interview, typically
they'll ask you for questions. Please ask them
questions. To say 'I don't have any questions' makes them
think there's nothing on your mind... Talk to the interview-
er, ask him questions. These are going to be your colleagues,
your supervisor, the people you're working with. Build some
rapport. Keep it engaged."

lso have to be very comfortable
with being away for long peri- See AVOIDING, Page 7B



i

v

w

w

w

w

Iw

w

w

w

a
3 3
ale e ..
9k
1k u y
By Katharine Mitchell Daily Staff Reporter

6sumes, applications, interviews, internships, offers. That's how it used to
work. With the sunken economy and a bachelor's degree decreasing in value
with every master's degree earned, securing jobs has become a greater chal-
lenge for college graduates But with a resum6-bolstering internship that can
offer networking connections for many, the chances of landing a job become
greater. And, for some, the key to getting into that career-changing internship or program
is a fat checkbook.

PAYING YOUR WAY THERE
Leading the trend in internships for pur-
chase, University of Dreams is a program that
places students in internship positions for the
summer - if you can find a way to pay. The
program charges between $ 5,500 and $9,500
per program depending on the location.
Eric Normington, the chief marketing offi-
cer for University of Dreams, said the cost
isn'tjust for the internship, but for the experi-
ence that goes along with it.
"It's way more than just an intern-
ship," he said.
The University of Dreams has a net-
work of employers that have been pre-
screened and with whom the company
has made long-lasting relationships.
To placestudentswiththeirideal
internship, University of Dreams
works with students individually
to match them with an employer
that meets their needs.
The cost of the program
includes housing, transportation
and career development both
before and during the intern-
ship. For some, there is also an
academic component that allows,
students to receive credit
at their respective insti-
/ tutions. But most of the
internships are unpaid,

Normington said.
"Internships are an investment," Norming-
ton said. "Having relevant work experience is
a necessity."
Normington said University of Dreams
offers both full and partial scholarships and
has a network of third parties that contribute
in helping students with financial need.
"The students that do our program are very
focused, understand that getting relevant
work experience is an investment," he said.
The University of Michigan leads program
enrollment with University of Dreams. There
is no formal advertising, though, and Norm-
ington said that as a small company, recruit-
ment is often just by word of mouth through
former participants and their families and
friends.
TAKING A SEMESTER TO INTERN
The Washington Center is a nonprofit
organization that places students in academic
internship experiences in the Washington,
D.C. area - and another example of how
internships are changing. The program is
the largest of its kind and offers an extensive
scholarship program.
Unlike University of Dreams, TWC stress-
es the academic component of the program as
part of its cost. A semester with TWC costs
just under $11,000 with its housing program
- however, students gain between 12 and 15
credits per semester and 9 to 12 credits per

summer term.
In addition to the internship, each student
participates in academic coursework taught
in the evenings, TWC President Mike Smith
said.
TWC only takes applicants whose uni-
versities accept the credit earned during the
semester or summer program. Smith said
there are hundreds of affiliated colleges that
offer college credit to participate in the pro-
gram, both public and private.
TWC also offers extensive financial aid for
its programs. Between 75 and 80 percent of
participants receive some form for financial
assistance to participate. Though Smith said
about 20 percent of internships provide a sti-
pend, the majority are unpaid, which is part
of the reason why TWC works to defray many
program costs.
Smith noted that participation in the pro-
gram in on the rise - in large part because of
the economy.
"Right now, more people feel that it's
important to have an internship on their resu-
me - clearly they're right," he said.
He added that with the election of Presi-
dent Barack Obama, more students are tak-
ing an interest in coming to Washington, a
common phenomenon when the White House
changes political parties.
Smith said TWC operates similar to a uni-
versity since both are registered as nonprofit
organizations. The program has a cost, simi-

lar to tuition, along with a separate, optional
housing plan that the student can choose to
enroll in.
Students interested in interning in Wash-
ington can also go through the University's
Michigan in Washington Program. The pro-
gram is similar to study abroad and places
20 to 25 students in Washington, D.C. for a
semester.
Students in the program get course credit
and they take classes in Washington. Appli-
cations are accepted from undergraduates in
any field.
According to the program's website, about
one third of students' internships are paid.
But, because of the increased living costs, the
Michigan in Washington program costs about
$5,500 more than a semester in Ann Arbor.
There are scholarships available, though,
and student aid can be transferred to the pro-
gram.
ALL ABOUT THE ALUMNI
Internships are a way to establish connec-
tions within a specified industry. Many stu-
dents use internships to build networks that
they can contact for jobs post-graduation.
Geni Harclerode, coordinator of intern-
ships and experiential learning at The Career
Center, said connections are important, but
"perhaps it's been blown out of proportion."
Harclerode said relying on connections as
the only way into a job doesn't give employers
- who comb through cover letters and resu-
mes in search of reliable candidates - enough
credit.
Harclerode said students who feel uncon-
nected to these privileged networks should
realize they already have access to a network:
the University.
The Alumni Association is a built-in net-
work of University grads, many of whom are
willingto meet with students and offer advice,
Harclerode said. She said students should
take advantage of InCircle, a University alum
social networking tool similar to Facebook,

and LinkedIn, a profes-
sional social networking
tool.
The Alumni Association
also offers mentorship rela-
tionships within its network
while hosting events periodically
that offer career advice and net-
working opportunities.
Smith said TWC's alumni have a lot
to do with the program's success. With
an alumni base of 40,000 over the past 34
years, TWC has multiple alums willing to
support the center and recommend its pro-
grams.
University of Dreams only has a 10-year
history, but Normington attributed word-of-
mouth success to the more than 7,000 alums
of the program. Normington added that pro-
gram alums are starting to give back to the
program by offering internship opportunities
available to new participants.
THE FUTURE OF INTERNSHIPS
With the job market declining, many stu-
dents are concerned that internship positions
could decline with it.
But Smith said there's no reason to worry.
"I think there will be enough internships,"
he said. "You geta free look at an employee as
an intern. I see internships expanding and not
retracting."
In fact, Harclerode said employers are
actually looking for interns. Harclerode said
hiring interns allows employers to test drive
future employees for free. Many employers
are hiring interns earlier in the year and try-
ing to convert as many of those interns to full-
time employees as possible, she said.
"One huge thing we're seeing is employers
hiring more interns," she said.

z


