STRUCK OUT A NG
ichigan drops anotherAatt 4 y
game to a MAC team.a d
SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8AME
~Ii ffid~an :aIlj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, April 1, 2009

michigandaily.com

WORKING OUT ON CAMPUS
New report
offers fix for
rec. facilities

Provost expresses
concern over cost of
proposed projects
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily Staff Reporter
Recreational facilities across
campus could receive a major
facelift if proposals pitched in
a new report submitted to the
University administration are
approved.
In the 91-page report released
to The Michigan Daily earlier this
week, a campus advisory commit-
tee outlined its recommendations
for improving the University's

recreational sportingandexercis-
ing facilities.
The group, the Recreational
Sports Task Force, is a committee
made up of11Universityrepresen-
tatives, includingstudents, faculty
and administrators. The commit-
tee was formed in the fall of 2007
by Provost Teresa Sullivan and
Vice President for Student Affairs
E. Royster Harper to examine how
to best improve the University's
recreational sports facilities.
The task force submitted a
report to Sullivan and Harper
in early February outlining their
recommendations to improve
the University's recreational
facilities.
See REPORT, Page 7A

This year's Golden Apple recipient, Lecturer John U. Bacon, delivers his "ideal last lecture" in Rackham Auditorium last night To see the speech, go to michigandaily.com.
I l e ure, Bacon tells of
lessons learned in life, sports

American Culture
lecturer received
Golden Apple Award
By ASA SMITH
For the Daily
American Culture lecturer John
U. Bacon spoke to some of his for-
mer hockey players, students and
faculty last night about his jour-
ney as a teacher, writer and hockey

coach and his experiences working
with legendary Michigan football
coach Bo Schembechler.
Bacon's talk last night "What I
learned - Despite My Efforts" was
Bacon's "ideal last lecture," which
he got the chance to present as the
winner of the 19th annual Golden
Apple Award.
The award recognizes outstand-
ing University faculty and is given
by the student group Students
Honoring Outstanding University
Teaching.

Three former winners ofthe Gold-
en Apple Award were in the crowd,
including Prof. Ralph Williams, who
taught Bacon when he attended the
University from 1982 to 1986.
Bacon, who taught "History of
College Athletics" and "The Rise
and Fall of the American Sports-
writer" last semester, said during
the speech that he felt humbled to
be grouped with the former award
winners.
"I am stunned," he said. "I had
three former winners of this award

as professors when I was a student,
and to be considered the same as
them, even for if only for a night, is
an honor."
Though he was honored for his
accomplishments, Bacon spent
much ofthe lecture recountingwhat
he has learned from his failures.
He joked about his previous
struggles with teaching on many
occasions, and often used sports
analogies to explain his points.
"This is my first teaching job!"
See GOLDEN APPLE, Page 7A

REVAMPING CAMPUS GYMS
Breakdown of proposed changes to three of the
campuses most-used facilities
CCRB
Provide up to 60,000 square feet of
additional space
1 Additional weight training and cardiovas-
cular equipment
- Additional basketball courts
* Hours of operation would be extended
to 2 am.
. More student friendly atmosphere,
including new amenities like a caf6
NCRB
Transform space to be geared toward
faculty, staff and families
Provide staff spate for U-MoveM-Fit and
Active U programs
Additional cardiovascular and weight train-
ing equipment
Create group meeting spaces for evening
programming on health and wellness
Additional parking

* FUNDING HIGHER EDUCATION
State senators pitch plan for free tuition

President Coleman
says any discussion
of higher ed. funding
is good for the 'U'
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
With pay cuts and job losses
plaguing the state, representatives
Rebekah Warren (D-Ann Arbor)
andAlmaWheelerSmith(D-Salem)
have proposed an initiative that
would reshape the way education
in Michigan is funded.

The MI Future plan - which
could take the form of a ballot ini-
tiative or a series of bills - would
help cover the tuition costs and
mandatory fees for students who
choose to attend a state college or
university. It would also fund a uni-
versal preschool program.
The plan would benefit families
living in Michigan whose incomes
are less than $107,000, and the ini-
tiative's funding would come from
a 1.15 percent increase in the state
income tax.
In an exclusive interview yes-
terday, University President Mary
Sue Coleman said she hasn't yet
reviewed the proposal, but that

she's excited lawmakers are dis-
cussing ways to make higher edu-
cation more accessible.
"If the discussion is around the
importance of education, in par-
ticular higher education in addition
to K-12, then I'm thrilled people are
having the discussion," she said.
Coleman said the bill raises a
larger discussion about making col-
lege a reality for more students in
the state.
"The more important thing to me
is that people are seriously thinking
about ways to enhance participa-
tion in higher education for people
in Michigan," she said. "Whether
this is the right thing or not, I don't

know, but I love that we're talking
about it." -
At a press conference intro-
ducing the plan, Smith said the
state must take "bold action" to
address the burden imposed on
families by the cost of higher
education.
"It has become a reality that
many parents can no longer afford
a college education for their chil-
dren," she said. "This plan will
grant higher education access to
anyone who has not already com-
pleted a bachelor's degree, who
graduated from a Michigan high
school and who earns $107,000 or
See TUITION, Page 7A

IM BUILDING
Renovate the building's swimming pools
and other exercise facilities
Restore the building's ceiling and original
architectural features to highlight its historical
significance
Uncover windows in the building to pro-
vide a brighterand more aesthetically pleas-
ing space
Reallocate building space for club sports
X COLINS/Daily; NCRB and IM BUILDING: CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily


ANN ARBOR'S NATIONAL BOOKSELLER
* For Borders, a glimmer of
hope on otherwise bad day

STANDING TALL, DEMOCRATICALLY

Bookseller reports
fourth quarter
earnings down 54%
ByVERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
On a day in which Ann Arbor-
based Borders reported just how
grave their current financial situa-
tion is, there were some glimmers
of hope for the once-dominant
bookseller.
But the bad news, of which there
was much, was staggering. In the
fourth quarter of the last fiscal
year, earnings for Borders Group,
As Inc. were down 54 percent from

the previous year, the company
reported in a press release yester-
day afternoon.
The final quarter numbers
topped off a dismal year for the
bookstore chain whose landmark
location is on Liberty Street. The
company also owns the mall-based
Waldenbooks.
Sales fell sharply as well. They
were down 8.8 percent in total,
dropping from nearly $3.5 billion in
2007 to $3.2 billion in 2008.
The press release did highlight
some good news though.
The company was able to
decrease its debt load by $218 mil-
lion and its inventory by $327 mil-
lion, making the company more
flexible as it moves forward.

In the press release yesterday,
Borders' CEO Ron Marshall wrote
that he was confident about the
company's future.
"Our top priority is getting our
financial house in order by continu-
ing to reduce expenses, pay down
debt and improve cash flow," Bor-
ders Group Chief Executive Officer
Ron Marshall wrote in the release.
Additional good news for the
company came in the form of a one-
year loan extension worth $42.5
million by Pershing Square Capi-
tal Management - Borders largest
shareholder - late Monday night.
"Borders is a strong brand with
millions of loyal customers," Mar-
shall wrote in the statement. "I am
See BORDERS, Page 7A

tED MoCH/Daily
University students take advantage of Art & Design Lecturer Amanda Krugliak's initiative to speak their mind and experience
democracy first hand. Here, Nolan O'Hara, an LSA freshman, from Amy Carroll's critical creative writing seminar exercises
his performance abilities in a truly democratic setting.


WEATHER HI: 62
TOMORROW 5 LU 43

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Multimedia: Earth Week Fashion Show
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/VIDEO

INDEX N E W S................................2A CLASSIFIEDSA..... .......... ...6A
Vol CXIX, No.121 OPINiON 4 ST......8...................4A SPORTS.. ......... ......A
200 heMichganDaily ARTS .................................. A THE STATEM ENTt............... tB
michivundoily cow


2A - Wednesday, April 1, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
TUESDAY: THURSDAY: FRII~AY:

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Characters ExplainedBefore You Were Here Photos of the Week
YI RECYCLED FASHIONS

Celebrating abig win

"The Victors" has come to define
football Saturdays for many Michi-
gan fans, and it's no surprise that the
birth of the beloved song stemmed
from one of the most famous foot-
ball victories of all-time.
Louis Elbel, a student of the
School of Music, created "The Vic-
tors" in 1898, in honor of Michigan's
famous win against the University
of Chicago that led the Wolverines
to their first undefeated season
since 1891, according to the Alumni
Association's website.
After the Wolverines secured
their 12-11 victory against the
Maroons with a touchdown fol-
lowed by an extra point, Michigan
fans, who traveled to the game
by train, erupted in song and cel-
ebration and took to marching the
streets of Chicago behind the Uni-
versity band.
Shortly after the victory, the

game's results were telephoned
back to campus.
But despite overwhelming sup-
port for the Wolverines, Elbel, a
member of the crowd, was dissatis-
fied with the songs and felt that the
greatness of the event required a
more uplifting melody, according to
the Alumni Association's website.
His dissatisfaction led to the birth
of "The Victors."
Elbel ran back to his sister's house
in Chicago to record the notes of the
song. He experimented with it on
the piano and eventually finished
the entire refrain.
On the train back to Ann Arbor,
Elbel decided to convert the piece
into a march and his humble cre-
ation emerged into a grand arrange-
ment for 23 instruments.
The fight song's premiere took
place in 1899 when the "March
King," John Philip Sousa, came to

Ann Arbor with his band, according
to the Michigan Marching Band's
website. Sousa was employed to
conduct the piece, which was met
by overwhelming admiration with
the audience.
The Minstrels, a University cho-
rale group, first performed the lyr-
ics two nights later at their concert,
according to an article in the Uni-
versity Record.
Since its creation, Michigan fans
young and old have proudly sung,
"Hail to the Victors Valiant" for 111
years. Its victorious strains have
rung at numerous events ranging
from the annual University of Mich-
igan Dance Marathon to President
Gerald R. Ford's funeral procession.
Elbel received the Band Alumni's
first Honorary Life Membership in
1951 for his creation, according to
the Marching Band's website.
- SARAH CRAIG

JEDMocH/Daly
School of Art and Design freshmen Mai Tai Truong
struts her stuff as part of the Michigan Student
Assembly's Sustainable Fashion Show.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
grca@michigandailyeam bsgli@michigandaily.eom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:Sun.-Thurs. aa.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection arts@michigandaity.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaity.com
Classified Sales classiied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitZ ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaity.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:jillianBerman,TrevorCalero,CaitlinSchneider,
Lindy Stevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna skoller,
Kyle Swanson
RobertSoave EditorialPageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Emilyearton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid ManagingSportsEditor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIORSPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Htering, RthLincsoin
aASTANSPORTSETORS:RyanKartje,IanKay,JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
Alte rsei,sCoirusnnaeig
DavidWatnith ManagingArats ditoe watimicnhigandailyceom
SENIORARSEDITORSJami eiockBrandonConradisW @itnen
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORSJoshuaBayer,AndrewLapin,DaveReap,BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaitycom
tlif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,RobMigrin,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Michael Schrotenboer DisparAdertisingSaiesu-nager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, ChristiePhillips
Ryan Businski Classified Sales Manager
Ciie ae sista a ager:A liasonsaToas
Marissa Gerber OntineSatlesManaert
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng LayoutManager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDailySSN0745-967)ispublishedMondaythroughFridayduringthe fall andwinter
termsbystudents a theUniversity of Michigan.One copyis avalablefree of chargetoalreaders.
Additionalcopiesmay bepickedeupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfatandwinter term
(Septemberthrough April)via U.S.mailare$200.Year-roundsubsciptions(Fall,Winter,Springand
Summer issues)are$225.Subscriptionsmust be prepaidThe MichiganDaiyisamemberof The
Associated PressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePess.

0
0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

$2,000 LCD Subject injured Lecture on Talk on the
projector stolen by cart at Mott's genes and the Michigan Parole

WHERE: Undergraduate Sci- WHERE: Mott's
ence Building Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 9:20 WHEN: Monday
a.m. p.m.
WHAT: An LCD projector, val- WHAT: A subjea
ued at $2,000 was stolen from cart while worki
a room in the Undergraduate tal, University Pr
Science Building by an unknown The subject wast
person, University Police report- University Hospi
ed. The room was left unlocked
on Sunday between 7:55 a.m.
and 11:00 a.m.
Small fir
Dental S
Laptop lifted stovetop
WHERE: Life Sciences Insti- WHERE: School
tute Building WHEN: Monday
WHEN: Monday at about 10:50 p.m.
a.m. WHAT: A small
WHAT: A laptop computer on a stove top at
was stolen by an unknown per- School, Universi
son, University Police report- reported. The fi
ed. The laptop is valued at guished and the
$2,400. There are no suspects. damage.

Children's environment Board

at about 12:50
ct was hit by a
ng at the hospi-
olice reported.
treated at the
[tal.
e on
chool
l of Dentistry
at about 5:30
I fire occurred
the Dental
ity Police
re was extin-
re was no

WHAT: Prof. Joel Schwartz
will give a talk called "Gene-
Environment Interactions:
Through the looking glass
into Mechanisms," which
will discuss toxicity.
WHO: The Department of
Epidemiology
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE:. Room 1690, SPH
Tower
Founders Day
celebration
WHAT: A celebration of Wil-
liam Clements's birthday,
which will feature the intro-
duction of Dr. J. Kevin Graff-
agnino as the new director of
the library.
WHO: Clements Library
WHEN: Today at 4 pot.
WHERE: William Clements
Library

WHAT: Barbara Sampson,
chairperson of the Michigan
Parole and Commutation
Board will discuss how the
body determines if a prisoner
is ready to return to society.
WHO: Department of Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Anderson RoomA
and B, Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
. An event listing in yes-
terday's edition of the Daily
(Bacon to deliver Golden
Apple Lecture) incorrectly
reportedcthe time of the
lecture. The lecture was at
7 p.m.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

After receiving12 fine notic-
es for a ticket for running
a red light a Chicago man
complained to city of Chicago
government, the Chicago Tri-
bune reported. After John Wray
contacted the city government,
he received 13 notices for the
same ticket.
Today is April Fool's Day.
To read selections writ-
ten by University students
in honor of the day known
for pranks and hijinx see The
Statement.
v"FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
INSIDE.
In Sufolk forest, UK, the
Red Rose Chain The-
atre Company persuaded
three people to report seeing
a bear in the woods that lead
to an investigation, Telegraph
News reported. The "bear"
was actually a stunt to get
families interested in Shake-
speare.

r I

~4
Ready to Launch
Thursday, April 2
11 a.m.-3 p.m.
Alumni Center
200 Fletcher St., next to the Michigan League
The Alumni Association wants to help graduating seniors get ready to
launch their careers. Drop by the Alumni Center on April 2 and make
connections that can help you settle into a new city, help you with
your job search and help you find a career mentor. Seniors will also
receive one-on-one help with their job search.
Job search advisers will be available to:

0

" Review your resume and cover letter
" Provide interview tips
" Coach you on your professional pitch

vssI

" Strategize your next step for your career
Free gifts and guaranteed appointment times for those who pre-register.
Visit www.umalumni.com/students to pre-register or for more details.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

*I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, April 1, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, April 1, 2009 - 3A

NEWSBRIEFS
* DETROIT
GM, Chrysler race
against time to
avoid bankruptcy
He doesn't know exactly what
the Obama administration wants
himtocut;but Fritz Henderson, the
new CEO of General Motors Corp.,
isn't waiting around to find out.
Cut deeper. Work harder. Move
faster.
That's how he described the
ailing automaker's urgent effort
to meet a June 1 deadline to fix its
debt-ridden balance sheet, cut bil-
lions in costs and take other steps
to transform itself into a profitable
entity.
It's the same government-
imposed race that Chrysler LLC is
running, only GM's smaller neigh-
bor has to cover more distance in
* half the time.
The Auburn Hills, Mich., auto-
maker must make the same cuts as
GM, and sign up Fiat Group SpA as
a partner, all in 30 days. Fiat's CEO
jetted to Detroit for intense negoti-
ations, but if Chrysler doesn't meet
the deadline, it's almost certainly
destined for the auction house.
DETROIT
Detroit schools settle
with former chief
The Detroit Public Schools has
settled a lawsuit with a former
superintendent who claimed he
. was wrongfully fired.
Emergency financial manager
Robert Bobb says in a release that
the district has settled with Wil-
liam Coleman III for an undisclosed
amount. Coleman was replaced in
2007 by former Superintendent
Connie Calloway, now on adminis-
trative leave.
Coleman alleged he was fired
after asking federal authorities to
investigate financial irregularities.
CAMPPENDLETON, Calif.
Trial begins for
Marine involved in
Iraq killings case
A court-martial began yesterday
fns a.R4 Mine accused of killing an
unarmed captive in Iraq in a case
officials knew nothing about until
the defendant sought a Secret Ser-
vice job and was asked about the
most serious crime he had ever
committed.
An attorney for Sgt. Ryan Weem-
er told the jury that prosecutors
cannot prove their case because
they have no body, no forensic evi-
dence and no relatives complain-
ing of alost loved one. Prosecutors,
however, played recorded inter-
views in which Weemer said he
gnd other Marines shot a total of
four Bpen in Fallujah in November
2004 after their squad suffered its
first fatality.
Weemer, 26, of Hindsboro, Ill.,
is accused of the unpremeditated
murder of one man and dereliction
of duty. His former squad leader
was acquitted of related charges
in federal court and another squad

member has yet to face court-mar-
tial.
The case came to light long after
the battle.
COLUMBUS, Ohio.
JIonda offers worker
buyouts, cuts pay in
North America
HondaMotorCo. isofferingvol-
untary buyouts, cutting workers'
pay and imposing 13 non-produc-
tion days at its North American
plants to reduce its output this
summer by 62,000 vehicles.
Honda spokesman Ron Lietzke
said Tuesday that the buyouts will
be offered at most of the Japanese
automaker's facilities in the North
America, where it employs 35,600
people. Sweetened retirement
packages are also being offered,
he said.
Overall compensation will
be reduced for its North Ameri-
can employees, with top execu-
tives experiencing the biggest
cuts, Lietzke said. He would not
say how much salaries would be
reduced.
Bonuses will be greatly reduced
or eliminated, but pay rates for
production and hourly workers
will not be affected, Lietzke said.
"There is a continuing need to
reduce our inventory," Lietzke
said. "Regardless of job title or
level within our organization,
each Honda associate will share
the responsibility of doing what we
must do tq remain competitive."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Taliban chief:
Next targets
will be in U.S.

Benjamin Netanyahu, right, struck a conciliatory tone as he took office yesterday, promising to seek a "permanent arrange-
ment" with the Palestinians and "full peace" with the entire Arab and Muslim world.
New IsraelI leader seeks
peace with Arabs, Musli*ms

Netanyahu hesitant to
embrace the idea of
Palestinian statehood
JERUSALEM (AP) - Benjamin
Netanyahu, taking office as Israel's
new leader yesterday, promised to
seek "full peace" with the Arab and
Muslim world, but refused to utter
the words the world was waiting to
hear: "Palestinian state."
The well-spoken, U.S.-educated
hawk took pains to portray himself
as a pragmatist, telling a packed
parliament that Israel does not
want to rule the Palestinians.
"Under the permanent status
agreement, the Palestinians will
have all the authority to rule them-
selves," Netanyahu said in com-
ments that appeared to hark back
to a decades-old notion that peace
could be achieved through limited
Palestinian autonomy.
His words drew a sharp reac-
tion from Palestinian negotiator
Saeb Erekat. "I want to say to Mr.
Netanyahu that the only way the
Palestinians can rule themselves,
by themselves, is through ending
the Israeli occupation that began in
1967 and establishing an indepen-
dent Palestinian state," Erekat said.

Netanyahu's refusal to embrace
the idea of Palestinian statehood
could put him at odds with the
Obama administration and much
of the rest of the world. So could his
decision to appoint ultranational-
ist politician Avigdor Lieberman as
foreign minister.
In recent days, however, Netan-
yahu has moved to soften his image,
welcomingthe centrist Labor party
into an otherwise markedly right-
wing coalition and announcing
that he supports peace talks with
the Palestinians.
The 59-year-old politician - the
son of a prominent historian and
the brother of a war hero who died
commanding the daring 1976 hos-
tage rescue at Entebbe, Uganda -
is returning to the premiership a
decade after being forced from it
amid a string of failures.
In his speech before parliament
Tuesday, Netanyahu praised Islam-
ic culture as "great and rich," and
said Israel and moderate Arab states
could find common ground fighting
radical Islam and what he called the
extremist regime in Tehran.
"Israel has always, and today
more than ever, striven to reach
full peace with the entire Arab and
Muslim world," he said.
A senior Netanyahu aide

appeared to suggest his boss would
accept the much hailed two-state
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict in the next few weeks, per-
haps ahead of a planned trip to the
United States.
The aide, speaking on condition
of anonymity so as not to pre-empt
any announcementsaidNetanyahu
will say something that will "take
this issue off the table" and avoid
confrontation with the world.
If he does, Netanyahu would join
the ranks of hard-line Israeli lead-
ers such as Menachem Begin and
Ariel Sharon, who changed their
minds about giving up land and
ended up making far-reaching con-
cessions.
However, so far there is no indi-
cation that Netanyahu's latest con-
ciliatory statements are anything
more than words designed to curry
favor with the West.
He has not retracted his promise
to press ahead with construction
in West Bank settlements to make
room for settlers' growing families.
And his new government
includes many ministers opposed
to territorial compromise, includ-
ing a housing minister from an
ultra-Orthodox Jewish party that
sees giving up land as a betrayal of
God's will.

Pakistani terrorist
wants revenge for U.S.
missile attacks
ISLAMABAD (AP) - Pakistan's
Taliban chief claimed responsibili-
ty yesterday for a deadly assault on
a police academysayinghe wanted
to retaliate for U.S. missile attacks
on the militant bases on the border
with Afghanistan.
Baitullah Mehsud, who hasa $5
million bounty on his head from
the United States, also vowed to
"amaze everyone in the world"
with an attack on Washington or
even the White House.
The FBI, however, said he had
made similar threats previously
and there was no indication of any-
thing imminent.
Mehsud, who gave a flurry of
media interviews yesterday, has no
record of actually striking targets
abroad although he is suspected
of being behind a 10-man cell
arrested in Barcelona in January
2008 for plottingsuicide attacks in
Spain.
Pakistan's former government
and the CIA consider him the
prime suspect behind the Decem-
ber 2007 killing of former Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto. And Pak-
istani officials accuse him of har-
boring foreign fighters, including'
Central Asians linked to al-Qaida,
and of training suicide bombers.
But analysts doubt that Taliban
fighters carried off Monday's raid
on the Lahore academy on their
own, saying the group is likely
working more closely than ever
with militants based far from the
Afghan frontier.
It's a constellation that includes

al-Qaida, presenting a formidable
challenge to the U.S. as it increases
its troop presence in the region,
not to mention nuclear-armed
Pakistan's own stability.
Mehsud told The Associated
Press that the academy and other
recent attacks were revenge for
stepped-up American missile
strikes into Pakistan's border bad-
lands.
"Soon we will launch an attack
in Washington that will amaze
everyone in the world," Mehsud
said in a telephone interview with
an Associated Press reporter. He
offered few details, though in a
separate recorded conversation
with local Dewa radio station, he
said the White House was a target.
FBI spokesman Richard Kolko
said the bureau was not aware of
any imminent or specific threat
to the U.S., despite what the Paki-
stani Taliban leader said.
"He has made similar threats to
the U.S. in the past," said Kolko.
State Department spokesman
Gordon Duguid said he had not
seen any reports of Mehsud's com-
ments but that he would "take the
threat under consideration."
The ruthless attack on Lahore's
outskirts Monday left at least
12 people dead, including seven
police, and sparked an eight-hour
standoff with security forces that
ended when black-clad commandos
stormed the compound. Some of
the gunmen blew themselves up.
The siege-style approach using
heavily armed militants came just
weeks after the deadly ambush of
Sri Lanka's visiting cricket team in
the heart of Lahore. Both attacks
were reminiscent of November's
siege of Mumbai, India - also
blamed on Pakistani militants.

Pistachio recall
could change
safety standards

HHS nominee admits error,
pays $7,000 in back taxes

Sebelius the latest
of many Obama
appointees with
unpaid taxes
WASHINGTON (AP) - Health
and Human Services nominee
Kathleen Sebelius recently cor-
rected three years of tax returns
and paid more than $7,000 in
back taxes after finding "unin-
tentional errors" - the latest tax
troubles for an Obama adminis-
tration nominee.
The Kansas governor explained
the changes to senators in a letter
dated yesterday, that the admin-
istration released. She said they
involved charitable contributions,
the sale of a home and business
expenses.
Sebeliussaidshe filed the amend-
ed returns as soon as the errors
were discovered by an accountant
she hired to scrub her taxes in
preparation for her confirmation
hearings. She and her husband,
Gary, a federal magistrate judge
in Kansas, paid a total of $7,040 in
back taxes and $878 in interest to

amend returns from 2005-2007.
Several Obama administra-
tion nominees have run into tax
troubles, notably the president's
first nominee for HHS secretary,
former Senate Democratic leader
Tom Daschle. He withdrew from
consideration while apologizing
for failing to pay $140,000 in taxes
and interest.
Finance Committee Chairman
Max Baucus, D-Mont., quickly
issued a statement supporting
Sebelius.
"Congress is going to need a
strong partner at the Department
of Health and Human Services
to achieve comprehensive health
reform this year, and we have that
partner in Gov. Sebelius," Baucus
said. "There is absolutely no doubt
in my mind that Gov. Sebelius has
the political experience, determi-
nation, and bipartisan work ethic
to get the job done with Congress
this year. She's the right person for
the job."
There was no comment from the
White House.
Sebelius is to appear Thursday
before Baucus' committee, which
will vote on sending her nomina-
tion to the full Senate. Sebelius

testified Tuesday before the Sen-
ate's Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee before the
tax issue became public, getting a
friendly reception.
Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa,
the top Republican on the Finance
Committee, said through a spokes-
woman that he is reserving judg-
ment until the vetting process,
including the nomination hearing,
is completed.
InherlettertoBaucusandGrass-
ley, Sebelius wrote that the accoun-
tant discovered these errors:
-Charitable contributions over
$250 are supposed to include an
acknowledgment letter from the
charity in order for a deduction
to be taken. Out of 49 charitable
contributions made, three letters
couldn't be found.
-Sebelius and her husband took
deductions for mortgage interest
that they weren't entitled to. The
couple sold their home in 2006
for less than what they owed on
the mortgage. They continued to
make payments on the mortgage,
including interest. But since they
no longer owned the home they
weren't entitled to take deductions
for the interest.

Officials sayit could
take weeks to find all
tainted products
TERRA BELLA, Calif. (AP) -
It could take weeks before health
officials know exactly which pis-
tachio products may be tainted
with salmonella, but they've
already issued a sweeping warn-
ing to avoid eating the nuts or
foods containing them.
The move appears to indicate
a shift in how the government
handles food safety issues - from
waiting until contaminated foods
surface one-by-one and risking
that more people fall ill to jump-
ing on the problem right away,
even if the message is vague.
Officials wouldn't say if the
approach was in response to any
perceived mishandling of the
massive peanut recall that started
last year, only that they're trying
to keep people from getting sick
as new details surface about the
California plant at the center of
the pistachio scare.
"What's different here is that
we are being very proactive and
are putting out a broad message
withthegoal oftryingtominimize
the likelihood of consumer expo-
sure," said Dr. David Acheson,
FDA's assistant commissioner
for food safety. "The only logical

advice to consumers is to say 'OK
consumers, put pistachios on hold
while we work this out. We don't
want you exposed, we don't want
you getting salmonella."'
Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, the pres-
ident's new acting commissioner
who started Monday, made it
clear staff needed to move quick-
ly, Acheson said.
The agency announced Mon-
day that Setton Pistachio of
Terra Bella Inc., the second-
largest pistachio processor in
the nation, recalled more than
2 million pounds of its roasted
pistachios.
Suspect nuts were shipped as
far away as Norway and Mexico,
Acheson said yesterday. One week
after authorities first learned of
the problem, they still had little
idea what products were at risk,
he said.
As federal health inspectors
take swabs inside the plant to try
to identify a salmonella source,
a whole range of products from
nut bars to ice cream and cake
mixes remain in limbo on grocery
shelves.
Company officials said yester-
day they suspected their roasted
pistachios may have been contam-
inated by salmonella-tainted raw
nuts they were processed with at
the hulking facility.
Roasting is supposed to kill the
bacteria in nuts.


4A - Wednesday, April 1, 2009
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F1 JTE AILY
Secondary education
Flint and Dearborn campuses deserve equal attention
When there's a minute left in the fourth quarter and the
football team is down by a single touchdown, all the
students in the Big House cheer wildly, regardless of
which of the University's campuses they attend. So when a policy
was created last football season that gave priority football seating to
students from Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint students were right-
fully outraged. The policy has been changed for the next football
season, but the dispute brought to the surface the importance of
the University's smaller campuses. To keep up with recent efforts
to improve the Flint and Dearborn campuses, the University should
invest more time and attention in them.

,.. ,,

*1

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

NOTABLE Q TL
A government that cannot deliver for its
people is a terrorist's best recruiting tool:'
- Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, commenting on the need for an Afghan government free from
corruption in the presidential election later this year, as reported yesterday by CNN.

Diversity daze

Last year, the Athletic Department insti-
tuted a policy that gave priority seating at
football games to Ann Arbor students over
Flint and Dearborn students. This year,
220 fewer tickets were sold to Dearborn
students than in previous years, quite pos-
sibly because of this policy. But after stu-
dents from all three campuses confronted
the Athletic Department arguing that this
policy was blatantly unfair, the policy was
repealed.
Many students at the Ann Arbor cam-
pus may be upset at losing priority seating
because they feel that they are entitled to
it. It's true that Ann Arbor students pay sig-
nificantly higher tuition fees than students
in Dearborn or Flint. But denying Flint and
Dearborn students an equal opportunity
to attend football games sends the mes-
sage that they aren't part of the University.
Football games at Michigan Stadium are a
defining characteristic of the culture that
draws students to the University, and all
students deserve the chance to take part in
this important Michigan tradition.
This policy was also emblematic of the
discrepancies between the Ann Arbor-
campus and the Flint and Dearborn cam-
puses, and ending it should serve as anoth-
er move toward granting these campuses
the proper recognition. The University
has recognized in recent years that Flint

and Dearborn can be valuable assets, but
only if the University is willing to invest
in them. The Flint campus, for example,
opened its first residence hall last year.
Improvements like this demonstrate that
the University's other campuses have
much to offer students.
But there's still more to do. The Univer-
sity has a responsibility to its students, and
not just those in Ann Arbor. It must ramp
up support of these other campuses' needs
in order to provide an education and a col-
lege experience that is just as worthwhile
as Ann Arbor's.
The University of California is a prime
example for the University to emulate.
There are six University of California cam-
puses that operate at respected academic
levels and each have their own unique but
centralized identity. Considering that the
University of California was originally
modeled after the University, it's a little
embarrassing that it now showcases a bet-
ter working system of sister campuses.
Granting equal access to football games
doesn't signal a sudden increase in interest
in Flint and Dearborn, butit was the right
decision to make. Now the University must
move forward to utilize the Dearborn and
Flint campuses to their full potential. And
that means investing time and, yes, money,
in them.

pening remarks of the
Obama Rally at the Univer-
sity of Michigan:
MARY SUE
COLEMAN
(Addressing massive
crowd on the Diag):
On this day I will "
not stand before you
and say 'Welcome
everyone.' (Pauses.)
On this day Iwill
stand before you WILL
and say 'Welcome
diversity.' For at the GRUNDLER
University of Mich-
igan, 'diversity' is
not just an abstract noun - it is also a
pronoun. To everyone here today, you
are diversity. I welcome you. I wel-
come diversity. Let us consider what
this means.)(Closes
eyes. Considers.)
(Opens eyes.) As
you are aware, some
months ago it was
rumored that Presi-
dent Barack Obama-
would visit campus
todayApr.1,todiscuss
his stimulus plan and
its effects on educa-
tion. The enthusiasm,
expressed by Uni-
versity of Michigan
students, faculty, pro-
vosts, regents, assis-
tant provost regents of
diversity and myself
was immeasurable. I
am certain the irony
of today's date was
not lost on those of
you in attendance. Yet
all of you have come.
Will President Obama
come? (Pauses. Looks
up. A helicopter is
heard.)
MARY SUE COLE-
MAN: Look! (The -
helicopter swoops into
view and approaches
the Diag. It hovers
above the crowd before
descending in front of
the steps of the Gradu-
ate Library. Several
men emerge dressed in black, followed
by President Obama.)
MARY SUE COLEMAN (Awe-
struck.): Ladies and gentlemen, the
President of the United States of
America!
PRESIDENT:(Waving, shaking
hands, making way topodium)
MARY SUE COLEMAN (Foregoing
prepared speech): Of the United States
of America!
PRESIDENT: Thank you very mu
MARY SUE COLEMAN: Barack
Obama!
PRESIDENT (Amused): Let me
thank all of -

MARY SUE COLEMAN: Mr. Presi-
dent, you have reached your ultimate
goal. You are the first African-Ameri-
can President ever to step foot on the
University of Michigan. Tell us about
that inconceivably diverse journey.
PRESIDENT: Thank you once
again, but today I-
MARY SUE COLEMAN
(<em>Addressing crowd</em>): Born
in Honolulu, Hawaii, to a Caucasian
mother and an African father, Barack
Obama received most of his primary
education in Indonesia. Mr. President,
you echo diversity like ... like a great
underground cavern echoes the sound
of bats and water!
PRESIDENT: (Confused.)
MARY SUE COLEMAN (Glances

that Brobdingnagian experience and
how it changed your global view.
What might
happen if Obama
met Coleman.
PRESIDENT: I appreciate your
interest in my background, but today
I would like to talk about the future,
particularly how the proposed stimu-
lus package will impact universities
like -
MARY SUE COLEMAN: The Uni-
versity of Michigan.
PRESIDENT: Exactly,
which -
k Grundler MARY SUE COLE-
MAN: - is the future,
true. But I think,.and I
believe the same logic
governs the belief in
multiple universes, that
there is the definite pos-
sibility that more than
one future exists, if you
follow me. And I think I
am looking at one right
ly now. Mr. President, you
are the future.
PRESIDENT: Look,
I'm quite flattered, but
what I would -
MARY SUE COLE-
MAN: What I would like
to do is extend the Uni-
versity's sincerest recog-
nition of your efforts by
offering you an honorary
degree. (Produces diplo-
ma.)
PRESIDENT: A B.S. in
"Diversity Studies"?
w MARY SUE" COLE-
MAN: Congratulations!
PRESIDENT: I don't
know if I -
MARY SUE COLE-
MAN: Of course, of
course, I forgot; here you
are!
PRESIDENT: No! I
don't want a robe either!
MARY SUE COLEMAN: Now, here
is a photo of me, and if you could just
make it out to "Mary," that would be
more than...
PRESIDENT: (Walks to helicopter.)
MARY SUE COLEMAN: No! (The
helicopter takes ofJf
MARY SUE COLEMAN: Shoot!
Provost, I need a provost! Yes, you!
Come up here. What? No, I'm leav-
ing. I don't know, talk about foot-
ball or something. Now somebody
get me the hospital helicopter!
- Will Grundler can be reached
at sailgull@umich.edu.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
LET TT T E SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Ethic alread a nart of hard decisions about financial, environmental,

at prepared speech.): Er, I mean, you
echo diversity like the University of
Michigan echoes diversity. Proudly.
Strongly. Passionately. Born in Hono-
lulu, Hawaii, to a Caucasian mother
and an African father, Barack Obama
received most of his primary educa-
tion in - oh, I already said that.
PRESIDENT: Er, thank you. Thank
you very much. I -
MARY SUE COLEMAN: Oh, here
we go! Barack Obama then returned
to the United States to pursue higher
education, and with hard work and
scholarships,he attained degrees from
ColumbiaUniversity and Harvard Law
School. Mr. President, share with us

0


School ofBusiness classes
TO THE DAILY:
I read with interest Tuesday's editorial urg-
ing the University to renew its commitment
to ethics (Bringing ethics back, 03/31/2009).
There's no question that one of the responsi-
bilities of higher education is to equip students
to enter "the professional world prepared to
handle the difficult ethical decisions they will
inevitably face."
As your editorial notes, business schools are
being increasingly - and properly - questioned
about how they address ethics. But I think your
editorial fails to accurately capture the current
state of affairs as far as the Ross School of Busi-
ness is concerned when it says, "The Business
School must mount a concerted effort to make
the discussion of ethics a substantial part of
its curriculum." The piece implies that ethics
training is not currently a substantial part of
the Ross curriculum, when in fact it is.
We have received some impartial recogni-
tion on this point. The Aspen Institute's Beyond
Grey Pinstripes survey, which ranks MBA pro-
grams according to how well they integrate
ethics - as well as socially and environmen-
tally responsible business practices - into the
curriculum, ranks Ross No. 2 in the world. The
survey is a rigorous examination of our MBA
curriculum and it judges us on both core classes
and electives.
Nor do we limit our efforts only to curricu-
lar activities. All Business School students are
required to sign a statement of community.
values, which addresses the responsibilities
of students to one another and their academic
community. And, in the past two years, we have
expanded our co-curricular leadership develop-
ment program from an event centered around
orientation to a more robust set of activities that
runs throughout the two-year MBA program
with a substantial focus on ethics in real-life
decision making. These activities, by the way,
involve much more than "incorporating ethi-
cal situations into everyday lectures," as your
editorial recommends. They involve elaborate
simulations that require participants to make

or social risk.
This is not to argue that we shouldn't contin-
ue to think hard about how best to incorporate
issues of ethics, leadership, and judgment into
our work. We should, and we will. But it is to say
that, at Ross and at other schools in the Univer-
sity, we are not starting from zero. ctive habits
are not something to celebrate.
Robert J. Dolan
Dean, Stephen M. Ross School ofBusiness
Recent assault attempt
shows women can, fight back
TO THE DAILY:
I'm writing to express my hope that if the
Daily covers the attempted sexual assault that
took place on Mar. 27, it will provide details
about how the intended victim successfully
fought off the man who attacked her.
Unfortunately, a lot of reporting on sexual
assault ignores or obscures women's resistance
to violence. When our communities are repeat-
edly exposed only to stories that emphasize
vulnerability in women and violence in men,
we internalize false, sexist messages leading to
apathy and despair.
I celebrate that this young woman success-
fully stopped a violent attack even though she
was pinned to the ground by the perpetrator. As
a self-defense instructor, I know it's a myththat
there's "nothing you can do" from the ground.
In reality, kicking from the ground can be an
extremely strong position for a defender. For
example, most women's legs are stronger than
most men's arms. Young women can defend
themselves.
Daily readers should know that University
community members have taken self-defense
classes through the Rackham Graduate School,
the U-M Dearborn Women's Center, MFIT,
U-Move and at some on-campus sororities
despite the fact that there is no campus-wide
program offering training for students.
Katy Mattingly
Staff

REBECCA ROBERTS-WOLFE '

',N

A hunger strike for human rights

Three political prisoners of Western Saharan (Sahrawi)
origin, Khallihanna Aboulhassan, Ali Salem Ablagh and
Brahim Baryaz, have been on a hunger strike since Feb.
12. They are striking from a Boulhemharez prison in Mar-
rakech, Morroco, in protest of the miserable conditions
of the prison and in an appeal to be treated as prisoners
of conscience. On Mar. 24, the Collective of the Sahrawi
Human Rights Defenders (CODESA) called on interna-
tional human rights associations to intervene in order to
save the lives of these three Sahrawi prisoners.
The region known as Western Sahara has been occu-
pied by Morocco since 1975 despite a decision by the
International Court of Justice in that year which upheld
the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination.
Violence between the Moroccan military and the Polisa-
rio Front - the independence movement of the Sahrawi
people - broke out the same year and continued for many
years. Throughout the 1980s, Morocco constructed a
series of walls to keep the Polisario military forces out of
the occupied territory.
The war between the two sides ended in 1991 with a
ceasefire agreement brokered by the United Nations. The
ceasefire was contingent upon a referendum being held
the following year to decide the future of Western Sahara
by popular vote. This referendum has still not taken place
and the United States government has done little to pres-
sure Morocco, a close ally, to fulfill its agreement to con-
duct the referendum. Eighteen years later, the Sahrawi
people are still waiting for justice. The conflict between
the people and the Moroccan government, though largely
forgotten by most of the rest of the world, continues to
severely disrupt their lives and society.
The walls built by the Moroccan government in the
1980s separate the occupied majority of Western Sahara
from a small territory along its eastern and southern bor-
der that is controlled by the Polisario. The walls continue
to be heavily monitored by Moroccan troops who severely
limit the movement of civilians between the occupied ter-
ritories, Western Sahara and the outside world.
Most Sahrawis in exile live in refugee camps near
Tindouf in western Algeria, just on the other side of its

border with Western Sahara. For decades, Sahrawis in
the camps have been divided from their families in the
occupied territory. The level of expense and bureaucratic
negotiation that would be required for these families to
visit each other makes most such visits impossible. The
refugee camps are located in one of the most inhospitable
regions of the world, with temperatures reaching over 120
degrees in the shade during the summer. Despite concen-
trated efforts by the Polisario and the refugees to improve
the standard of living in the camps, conditions there are
extremely difficult.
Sahrawis living within the occupied territory have
very little freedom of expression. Journalists and politi-
cal activists are routinely beaten, detained and made to
disappear by the Moroccan police. Political prisoners like
Aboulhassan, Ablagh and Baryaz suffer terrible condi-
tions in prison. Although the health situation of the three
men - who have now been on hunger strike for well over
a month - is reported to be critical, the prison adminis-
tration continues to ignore their demands.
The United States government has a long and regretta-
ble history of supporting repressive regimes for economic
and political reasons. It has strategic interests in main-
taining its longstanding friendship with the Moroccan
government. This is largely because Morocco currently
controls the world's largest phosphate reserves, which
are located in Western Sahara.
But the practice ofputtingitsshort-termstrategic inter-
ests before the defense of international law and its moral
obligations tarnishes the U.S. government's international
image, damages its credibility and risks creating enmity
among foreign populations - things that have occurred
all too frequently over the last several years. This practice
should be put to an end. The U.S. government must use its
diplomatic weight to influence the Moroccan government
to conduct the U.N.-mandated referendum under fair and
reasonable terms. In the meantime, the U.S. should per-
suade the Moroccan government to mitigate the condi-
tions of the hunger strikers and their fellow prisoners.
Rebecca Roberts-Wolfe is an LSA junior.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, A pril 1, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, April 1, 2009 - 5A

St. Louis's finest come
to Hill tomorrow night

"Moustache buddies 4 life!!!!"
Dying 'Tk
After the ubiquitous unnecessarily dingy sound, resulting in
a collection of unappealing faux-dance
success of 'Writer's tracks. The excessive use of migraine-
inducing synthesizers and disjointed
Block,' PB&J stumble rhythms prevents most songs from quali-
fying for any nightclub's playlist.
with their follow-up Opening track "The Feeling" tries des-
perately to be ironic with self-consciously
By DAVID RIVA dysfunctional instrumentation and lyrics
Daily Arts Writer like "I feel it / Can you feel it / There is
something in the air." But the absence of
Writing a hit song can be both a bless- a discernible melody renders the song an
ing and a curse. The unfortunate yet appropriate selection to
blessing comes in the commence an album that follows its lead.
form of paychecks The relentless use of a disagreeable drum
from advertisers dying PeterBjom machine grows increasingly irritating
to insert a memorable and tiresome throughout the record.
melody into their com- and John "Nothing to Worry About" is the lone
mercial. The curse Living Thing track whose danceable beats actually suc-
comes in the form of Almost Gold ceed. Substituting the gloomy mood for a
snobbish criticismfrom carefree chorus creates an impeccable
holier-than-thou pur- sing-along that flirts with the stickiness
ists declaring the band guilty of treason of "Young Folks." PB&J sounds refresh-
for selling out. ingly natural in this comfort zone.
Peter Bjorn and John's "Young Folks" Peter Bjorn and John look to their
is the archetype for this kind of song. It inner Vampire Weekend on the title
gave the world 2006's most whistlable track. An afro-pop melody is backed with
line, and the band received fat paychecks repeating baritone vocals over which lead
fromAT&T and Budweiser as a result., singer Peter Moren impolitely injects his
Instead of succumbing to the allure of falsetto whine. The ominous yet playful
only writing toe-tapping, juvenile love guitar line is not enough to rescue the
songs, PB&J found it necessary to rede- track from its vocal debauchery.
fine their sound - an admirable nmove Contrasting "Living" Thing," "Last
for a band attempting to maintain self- Nights" tones down the pipes almost to
respect and dignity. the point of nonexistence. The jumble
But on Living Thing, PB&J opt for an of randomly distorted drum hits sounds

like Phil Collins's "In the Air Tonight"
if it were played in an uninspired alter-
nate universe where monotonous synth
chords and vapid vocals were the musical
norm.
Complementing the record's dreary
tone and bleak subject matter, "Blue
Period Picasso" touches on the theme
of love lost in a world of gloom by refer-
encing the well-known stretch of time in
Picasso's career where various shades of
the same hue created works of misun-
derstood melancholy. The song is nearly
charming, but ultimately too predict-
able. Lyrics like "Trying to figure out /
how to get down / because this solitude
is bringing me down" are unsurprising
and contrived.
Everyone knows how to whistle the
opening line to "Young Folks," but many
people fail to realize the infectious track
was part of an excellent debut album of
unpretentious and clean songs. Living
Thing, on the other hand, feels sloppy and
manufactured. Attempts at experimen-
tation are reduced by the album's con-
stant clap-heavy drum machine beats,
which suffocate Peter Bjorn and John's
attempt to exhibit their mettle. By trying
to distance themselves from the dreaded
indie-pop genre, PB&J
end up neglecting their
previous record's more
listenable sound. 2

By BETHANY GIBBONS
Daily Arts Writer
Tomorrow night, conductor David Rob-
ertson makes his University Musical Soci-
ety debut with the Saint
Louis Symphony Orches-
tra (SLSO). The SLSO has Saint Louis
won six Grammys and Sympho
been nominated for 56 O
more. It attracts some of
the world's best soloists, Tomorrow
including Finnish cellist at 8 p.m.
Anssi Karttunen, who At Hill
has performed in more Starting at $10
than 90 world premieres
and travels with the SLSO
this week to Ann Arbor. Like the New York
Philharmonic earlier this season, the SLSO
is set to perform a magnificent array of
pieces at a world-class level.
But the SLSO isn't just another high-
end, globe-hopping musical ensemble. And
David Robertson, the SLSO's music direc-
tor, is no dry old man. According to Ward
Stare, resident conductor of the Symphony,
Robertson is energetic, creative and char-
ismatic both in rehearsal and in perfor-
mance. He is not only fresh and original in
his approach to older classics, but he also
stands as a recognized expert in 20th and
21st century music. Robertson champions
modern music and current composers,
mixing in newer pieces with more familiar
ones.
This Thursday, the SLSO will perform
"Good Friday Music" from Wagner's 1882
opera "Parsifal." Wagner is known for his
grandeur and pioneering influence on Euro-
pean classical music. This excerpt from his
last stage performance tells the story of a
knight's quest for the Holy Grail.
John Adams's 2001 "Guide to Strange
Places," the second piece in the program, is
distinct even in comparison to the contem-
porary composer's other works. The exis-
tence of fantastic pieces like it proves that
classical music is not dead. Here, Adams
creates a journey to a strange and wonder-
ful world with a mix of colors and emo-
tions, making for a powerful and unique
experience.
Bernd Alois Zimmermann's 1957 "Canto
di Spera za" includes no violins, and SibeJ-
ius's 1915 Symphony No. 5 in E-flat Major,

Op. 82, was written during a crisis in his
career, balancing the modern desires of his
audience and his own artistic inclinations.
All of these pieces are exciting, dynamic
and entirely characteristic of the SLSO.
"They have a lot of heart and a unified
sound concept that is unique in orchestras
today," Stare said. "They have an identity in
their sound."
That identity comes from both a long
tradition as a symphony and the new,
energetic team that makes up the SLSO's
current staff. Their mission is to make clas-
sical music accessible and alive, especially
through the presentation of lesser-known
composers or pieces like those they will be
performing tomorrow night.
To show their dedication to the general
public, SLSO musicians give more than 250
free performances every year, many out-
side their home at Powell Symphony Hall
in St. Louis.
"It is important tobe as accessible as we
possibly can be to as many people as we
possibly can be," said Stare.
The Saint Louis Symphony Orchestra
is prospering, offering a great number of
free events in the last year. It's hiring new
Using new takes
on the classics to
be accessible to
all audiences.
staff, and its last holiday concert attracted
a much larger audience than expected.
Even in the midst of a recession, the SLSO
has made, compelling music available to
the general public - often for free - and
managed to make a profit at a time when
other orchestras are struggling to sur-
vive.
The SLSO is bringing modern music to
the fore - taking new interpretations of
well-loved classics while making the whole
experience attractive toa large audience. If
phat's not the mark Qf a great orclestra, it's
hard to say what is.


ARTS IN BRIEF

Film Review
'12 Rounds' of awful
torture
"12 Rounds"
The Mark Gordon Company
At Showcase and Quality 16
As if Hurricane Katrina didn't
damage New Orleans enough, in
"12 Rounds" the struggling city
now has to deal with the havoc
wreaked by psychotic criminal
Miles Jackson (Aidan Gillen,
"Shanghai Nights") and Detective
Danny Fisher (WWE wrestler
John Cena).
Exactly one year after Fisher
captures Jackson and sends him
away to prison, Jackson manages
to escape. He comes back to New
THERE ARE
NO
OPENINGS
ON OUR
FINE ARTS
STAFF...
APRIL
FOOLS!
E-mail battlebots@umich.
edu for an application to
our hilariously clever
Fine Arts staff.

Orleans seeking revenge and entan-
gles Fisher in a deadly game of cat
and mouse in which Fisher has 12
chances to save his girlfriend. Nat-
urally the game results in plenty of
testosterone-packed chase scenes,
car wrecks and explosions.
Despite the fact that Gillen's Irish
accent comes and goes as it pleases
and John Cena is a total meathead,
"12 Rounds" is moderately enter-
taining. The implausibility of the
scene where Fischer unsuccessfully
tries to free an overweight elevator

operator from a doomed elevator
by squeezing him through a tiny
escape hole is oddly engaging.
And it's always exciting to watch
a man take down a speeding tram
Chuck Norris-style. Yet it feels
like all the movie's successes were
unintentional.
"12 Rounds" is nothing new -
it's basically a stale James Bond
movie - and it wouldn't exactly
be a tragedy if it didn't ever make
your to-do list.
EMILYBOUDREAU

On the Road to a Cure
17>
www.mrelay.org
Relay For Life
April 4-5,2009
Palmer Field
Celebrate. Remember. Fight Backl
Take Back the Night Rally and March
U of M Diag Thursday, April 2nd 7pm
Take a Stand Against Sexual Violence
**
*ftW
v~whdUin-wI

www.tbtnannarbor.org



9

6A - Wednesday, April 1, 2009
the michigan daily

4"
kLASSIA" IED

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
51 Lawrence
8t9 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
am -mm ,7o , -10

! 4 ELEVEN Lofts will boy you FREE
LUNCH ! First 10 new visitors daily,
weekdays 12-3pm. THIS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
finess room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT on remain-
ing spaces at 4 Eleven Lofts -
734.998.4400 4elevenlofts.com
1 BDRM & EFFAPTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
3 BDRM, I bath, updated, I car
garage, walk to campus, 734-649-7571.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATES$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water,
and parking included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.

WilsonWhire
I M A NA! G EM! NIT
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO-
New reduced rates availa ble
May and Fall 2000 availahilily
Ing ths ad ntoenst signing ond an
ni aita the apyliratin tee and noduce
sarurity depnsitl t nt onthi's tent
S Il Church Street
734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhiemanaimenI.csm
-R-NT S-L-!
Rnoms, stadina, and 1- tn 8-bedrnom
hnases and apartments.
Greal Central Canyas Incations!
CALL TODAY! M
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
Avail. Fall '09. On Dewey, near Yost
Arena. fftreet prkg, ildry, water
incI. 734.223.7777.
**LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avuil
for Fall. Frin. Free heat. Central Cam-
pan. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.m-hoasing.com,
*2 BEDROOMS - Greal campus Ia-
catiens* /001 S. Faresn, 326 & 917
Packard 848 Tappan, 315 & 521 Wal-
nm. All furnished and include heat, ma-
ter, and parking, some with free wire-
less! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 660-1100
*A3 BEDROOM 3APTS* o
1346 Get/den & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms greate share. C
www.varsitymanagement.com m
(734)668-1100
*6-BEDROOM HOUSE* o
331 Catherine: 2 fall kitchens, 2 fall
baths, great for 6 8 people. Kerry-
town! Close to Downtown,
Zingerman's & su mer farm market!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)(668-1100
*B SCHOOL STUDENTS!*
917 Packard: Huge 2 bedrooms, great
balconies or patia, heat, water, furish-
ings, and parkig rinluded, quiet stady
environment, ALL FOR A GREAT
PRICE! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100
*MAY - MAY 2 bedrnem*c
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eo-it
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site.
www.varsiymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. upls. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroon house, two car garage,
sanroom, foortal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement in! laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenae can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter mel. Prkg. avail. Coin dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherie and W.
Liberty. $975-St 500. 734-996-1991.,
CappoManagementmom m
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888

3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall 09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site lndry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - 1 bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
5 BDRM., 1111 Prospect, 2 blocks
from UM Business School. $2,000/mo.,
Sept-.Apr. or Sept.-Sept. Large bed-
rooms, off street parking, free
washer/dryer. Call 614-395-8104.
5 BDRM./2 bath. attactive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only 1 mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May 09 to August b'099at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Mnn-m-t t - A -9?na


RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, April 1, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Pocono5 00 38 Center of 49 Most bashful
1 Impetuous fervor group activity 52 Quasimodo's
5 Cong. work 5 Relaxing 39 "Golden Boy" hangout
period retreats dramatist 53 Vacuous
9 Not on the up 6 Pisa dough? 40 Meadow mom 56 To the _: fully
and up 7 Imaginative 41 Census datum 57 Handful of mud,
14 Tibetan holy man genre 44 Placefor a lace say
15 Dark purple 8 Sable or Impala 46 Agree out of 58 Designer
16 "Flip This House" 9 Like somecows court Schiaparelli
airer 10 Spydom name 47 Monotony 59 Talk about sin,
17 Some dadaist art 11 In-depth 48 And others, in e.g.: Abbr.
18 Bone-dry examination bibliographies 60 "Uh-uh"
19 Hardly sensitive 12 Oral surgeon's
20 2003 Katie deg. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Holmeslfilm 13 "Amen!"
23 Leftovers 21 Listlesstfeeling A V E L A RAM J A R T S
covering 22 Linksorg. SO X A R E NA U L E E S
24"BusStop" sponsoringthe F O 0 K N I G H T R I D E R
playwright FedEx Cup A D D T O L L O Y D S
25 Rbin Hood's 26 Summer on the C O U N T F L E E T C S T
wand Seine 0 T D RE H P
28 Everlasting 27 Jazz guitarist
31 Carol starter Montgomery
33 Cheery 29Clothing P R I N C E O F W A L E S
36 Is situated 30Wall St. deals M A O R I T R I
371965 film based 32 Extension T W O S T E P E N I G M A S
on a Katherine forming a right A N T O U K EO F EAR L
Anne Porter angle BOLE R O OLD IE
novel 34 Young T HE IKI N G S M E N C O E
40 Genesistwin salamander D U E I N E ASE L A S P
42 "The Girl From 35 Hendrixhairc t S H ent E K U R P O S
Ipanema"ssinger 37bEnemyagen ' SwordeKDrP03
Glea strategy xsworedllitoaol.nam na/31sas


tssa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
Info@issaproperties.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathontravis@sbcglobal.net
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. SEPT. '09, $4,300, large 6
bedroom, 3 bath. house very close to
Diag. Central air, laundry, 4 nearby
parking spots, hdwd. floors, large bed-
rooms. aichaelbielby@comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most acl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. iel. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

as the O
~e
0 'ed as '<
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarbOrapartmens.net
or visit us at
1700 GeddeS Ave.
FALL AVAILABILITYt FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
GRADUATE STUDENT? 418 E.
Washington studios and one bedrooms
available. Close to Main St. and central
campus, modern, quiet, many updated
kitchens. Visit
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quat&SecuwHiglnre- nldr(myus.
Call BrinTomsic
734-663-1530
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit or wbsite at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com

WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
An/ Arbo, -410
E|

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
I Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
*Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
HOUSE OR ROOMS for rent. 2 bath,
furnished, side drive parking, excellent
location, 248-709-9981.
Post Realty
pro perties
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net

help W" -.
00
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
SEASONAL GROUNDS CREW
workers needed for Stonebridge Golf
Club, Ann Arbor. April-Sept. Call 734-
323-8790.
GRILL SERVERS WANTED. Stone-
bridge Golf Club, A2. Apr. through
Oct. Call 734-429-8383.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfnancial.com
BORDERLINE PERSONALITY
DISORDER Healthy, right-handed
women with a diagnosis of Borderline
Personality Disorder needed for a study
of stress and emotions, Study partici-
pants will have 1 IMRI and 2 PET
scans along with psychological evalua-
tions. Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580
IRBMED 62003-0663
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
THE POLO FIELDS Country Club is
now hiring for concession stand, bever-
age carts, certified lifeguards, exp. wait-
staff, dishwashers, golf course laborers,
golf shop and outside golf services.
Please apply in person at 5200 Polo
Fields Dr., Ann Arbor, MI. Directions
available on our website
www.polofields.org
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
FC l I dCare
095
PART-TIME ITALIAN speaking
babysitter needed for 7 year old child.
email: mamarc@comcast.net
WANTED: CHILD CARE for infant
and 2 yr old. Part/full time. Exp. req.
Education in related prog pref Will per-
form background check. 248-231-9264.

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu

43 Composer
Andrew Lloyd -
45 Clytemnestra's
son
50 Prefix with
skeleton
51 Himalayan
legend
54 Gear parts
551962 WWII ilm
59 Ecaergot
61 Outfield border
62 5-point K, e.g.
63 Scout rank
64Grandsonof
Adam
65 San _ Obispo,
Calif.
66 Buler of fiction
67 First name in
country
68 Give off
DOWN
1 Go by, as time
2 ogie catcher
3 Current unailt rublmm

1 2 1T3--[4T-W S 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16
17 16 19
20 4121 22
23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31 32
33 34 36 36
3T 36 39
40 41 42
43 44 45 48 47 48 49
60 51 62 53 54
66 58 67 56
69 60 61 62
83 B4 66
166 67 66
By Pancho Harrison 0" 1109
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per linefor the first issue and $1,75 per linefor each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contractsare available- contact our stafffor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in personawith a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessads only)
n All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one of our Account Executives



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, Aprill1, 2009 - 7A

. Newly released report pitches
changes to CCRB, NCRB, IM

University alum
starts non-profit
to help families

From Page 1A
Among its ideas, the task force
recommended the creation of a
master plan to improve the qual-
ity and atmosphere of recreational
facilities and increased funding
to the recreational sports depart-
ment.
Most notably, the task force rec-
ommended in its report that all of
the recreational sports facilities,
including the Central Campus
Recreation Building, North Cam-
pus Recreation Building and the
Intramural Sports Building, be
overhauled to provide fitness cen-
ter-style space.
"In general we recommend that
all facilities be upgraded to condi-
tions that are closer to a 'health
club' atmosphere and less like a
high school gymnasium and weight
room," the report reads.
The report also outlined the
committee's recommendation to
"significantly improve" the clean-
liness of the recreational facilities,
citing cleanliness as a major con-
cern among surveyed students and
staff.
In the report, committee mem-
bers recommended an expansion of
the CCRB's basketball and swim-
ming facilities, as well as additional
space for weight lifting and cardio-
vascular activities. The commit-
tee recommended the expansion
be accomplished through reallo-
cation of space in the CCRB from
the School of Kinesiology and the
School of Dance, which would pro-
vide an additional 60,000 square
feet of space.
An audit by Brailsford & Dun-
lavey, an outside consulting firm
hired by the University to assess
the University's recreational
sports facilities in 2003, recom-
mended similar improvements.
The consultants recommended
a 20,000-square-foot addition
to accommodate four basketball
courts, which could also func-
tion as volleyball or mini-soccer
courts, and six additional racquet-
ball courts. The proposed addition
would also house two more lanes
for lap swimming and an addition-
al pool for recreational swimming.
Committee members stressed in
the report that they do not neces-
sarily endorse all of the plans pro-
posed by the consulting firm.
The committee is also recom-
mendingthatthe CCRB be changed
into a more student-friendly space
with an extended schedule that
would keep the CCRB open until 2
a.m. each day and could potentially
include a caf6.
Just outside of the CCRB, the
task force is recommending that
University officials add more bas-
ketball courts to Palmer Field.
The committee is also proposing
the construction of an outdoor
stage on the north end of Palmer
Field.
On North Campus, the com-
mittee is recommending that the
North Campus Recreation Build-
ing be converted to better serve
the needs of faculty, staff and
families on campus. The commit-
tee is proposing additional space
for cardio and weight training,
additional parking and more pro-
gramminggeared toward families.
In the long run, the committee is
also urging University administra-
tors to expand the NCRB facilities
to meet growing demand for the
facility.
The committee has also rec-
ommended the renovation of the

Intramural Sports Building pool
to highlight the building's origi-
nal design features. Additionally,
the committee said the renovation
would uncover several windows
that would create a brighter and
more atheistically pleasing space.
In addition to these recommen-
TUITION
From Page 1A
less."
The average cost of four years
of in-state undergraduate tuition
at a state college in Michigan
is $35,012, according to a press
release distributed with the
announcement.
If the MI Future plan were
put into effect, the average
Michigan resident making
the median income of $47,000
would pay $524 per year in addi-
tional taxes. Residents would get
these tax dollars back later in the
form of a rebate that would fund
their children's college educa-
tion at any public university in
the state.
The plan was introduced as
a potential voter initiative that
would be included on the ballot
in the next state elections, which
take place in 2010. By linking
tuition to the Detroit Consumer
Price Index, the plan would also

Patrons of the CCRB weight room work out last night. Part ofthe proposed changes would include expanding the selection of
weight-lifting and cardiovascular equipment in the ccRB.

dations, the committee has also
advised University administrators
to replace the grass at Mitchell
Field and Elbel Field with synthet-
ic turf. The task force has also rec-
ommended adding more lighting
and new security fences to Elbel
Field, where the marching band
practices.
Despite the lofty recommenda-
tions set forth by the task force,
committee members wrote in their
report that they did not want to
offer advice on how to finance the
operations. Instead, the committee
encouraged University adminis-
trators to make fees for the recre-
ational facilities very affordable to
encourage more students and staff
to use the facilities.
For University staffers, the com-
mittee proposed apercentage ofthe
employee's pay be deducted as the
facilities fee. This would mean an
employee making $100,000 would
likely pay more than an employee
making $50,000, although caps
were recommended for employ-
ees making a certain amount of
money.
In addition to the proposed
facility changes, the committee
has recommended several other
changes, including the reassign-
ment of the department from the
Athletic Department to the Office
of the Provost.
In the report, committee mem-
bers argued that such a move
would allow the department to
better represent students and
faculty who use the recreational
sports facilities. As part of the
move, the committee also recom-
mends changing the department's
name from the Department of
Recreational Sports to the Depart-
ment of Campus Recreational
Sports and Fitness.
KinesiologyProf. BeverlyUlrich,
who also serves as the director of
the Center for Human Growth and
Development and is a former dean
of Kinesiology, said the commit-
tee relied on several sources when
forming its recommendations. The
group toured the campus facilities,
reviewed information on facilities
at otherschools, spoke with groups
on campus that encourage exercise
and healthy lifestyles, reviewed
a student survey from 2003 and
conducted a survey of faculty and
staff, Ulrich said.
Ulrich said she understands
the University's budget may be
tight next year but that University
administrators can move forward
with planning to prepare for when
money is available.

"Because (the) plan is going to
require some time, that allows the
University to focus on some things
that perhaps in the short term -
when the economy is particularly
tough - might not be that expen-
sive and would still allow us to
meet the needs of our campus com-
munity," she said.
Ulrich said recommendations
like walking paths and bike trails
would be an economical way to
begin implementing the com-
mittee's recommendations while
planning for larger projects is
underway.
"The cost for things like this
are not as great as adding another
wing to a building or another pool
or gymnasium," she said. "We rec-
ommend developing some of the
non-traditional spaces that are
available on North Campus, Medi-
cal Campus, Central (Campus) and
South Campus."
Ulrich said smaller things like
that or keeping buildings open later
at night would increase student
activity at the facilities and likely
provide more support for further
facility improvements.
"Smaller steps can combine in
the total to generate more enthusi-
asm and more activity," she said.
Because some of the larger plans
require cooperation from other
units, like the School of Kinesiolo-
gy and Athletic Department, Ulrich
said coordination in the planning
process would be essential.
Ulrich said although the com-
mittee made several recommenda-
tions, the decision is ultimately up
to the Provost and Vice President
for Student Affairs.
"We believe it was our goal and
our responsibility to identify needs
and possibilities, but it is then truly
I think the purview of the provost,
whom we suggest Recreational
Sports report more to, and the
director of Recreational Sports to
work through the complexities of
those to identify really what can
happen," she said.
In an exclusive interview with
Provost Teresa Sullivan yesterday,
Sullivan said she was impressed by
the group's report.
"The task force took their charge
very seriously and they worked
hard to look at a wide range of
issues around recreational facili-
ties," she said. "I think they did a
good job of that."
Sullivan said she has had discus-
sions with several groups and indi-
viduals to receive feedback about
the report's recommendations.
"I sent it out to a number of

groups with whom I work," she
said. "I know that Vice President
Harper also sent it out to a large
number of people she works with."
Sullivan said the groups she had
discussed the report with included
the Athletic Department, the Rec-
reational Sports Advisory Group,
the deans of each of the schools and
the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs - the leading
faculty governance body on cam-
pus. Additionally, Sullivan said she
plans to bring the report up in an
executive meeting with all of the
vice presidents at the University.
Because several other people
will be involved in determining
how much funding is directed to
implement the committee's recom-
mendations, Sullivan said she's not
sure at this point what recommen-
dations will be implemented.
Sullivan explained that allocat-
ing more funding for recreational
facilities would mean cuts to other
departments or -a tuition increase
for students.
"What is it that we want to do
less of so that we can do more of
this?" she asked hypothetically.
Although she's not certain what
projects will be funded, Sullivan
said many of the proposals fit well
with several of the University's
high priorities, including active
lifestyles for students and faculty,
and could potentially help with
recruitment efforts.
Sullivan said if some recom-
mendations can't be funded this
year, she hopes to keep them on the
table for next year. A final budget
proposal will be submitted to the
University's Board of Regents in
June.
LSA sophomore Sean McHen-
ry, who uses the CCRB on a daily
basis, said limited space is the big-
gest problem with the CCRB.
"There's a lot of room for the
free weights, but the machine
room itself is too small," he said.
"Right now, there's only two rooms
you can use for stretching."
Engineering freshman Brooke
Bettis, who is member of the Uni-
versity's varsity golf team, said lim-
ited space was also a major issue at
the Intramural Building.
"It would be nice if the tread-
mills were more spread out," she
said. "It feels kind of cramped."
Engineering freshman Eric
Porter added that the Intramural
Building needs different equip-
ment.
"The IM building definitely
needs more cardiovascular equip-
ment," he said.

At 23, Doyle opted
to create own
charity, rather
than find a job
By VANESSA NUNEZ
Daily StaffReporter
Ryan Doyle, who graduated
from the University in 2008, is
showing students that they don't
have to wait for graduationto leave
their mark on society. According
to Doyle, they can do it right now.
In November of 2007, Doyle and
his business partner, Kevin Smith,
launched their own non-profit
organization, Live 2 Give, to help
families facing financial difficul-
ties in Michigan.
As of now, they have five mem-
bers who work for the non-profit
- all under the age of 23.
"I am a social entrepreneur who
is judged by my impact on society"
Doyle said.
Doyle majored in psychology
with a focus on the business sec-
tor and Smith graduated from the
business school at Michigan State
University with a major in finance.
Doyle said that Smith handles the
business side of the organization,
mostly "dotting the Is and cross-
ing the Ts."
Doyle emphasized, however,
that he and Smith worked closely
to develop the foundation of the
organization. Doyle added that he
handles "more of the human ele-
ment and human behaviors."
"I'm the vision man," Doyle
said.
Doyle said one of the goals of
the organization is to give back
the "personal touch" that he feels
a lot of businesses and non-profits
are missing.
"We're trying to be activist
and trying to create our own job
opportunities instead of being
stuck in this negative vibe that is
so prevalent in Michigan," Doyle
said.
Doyle and Smith spent about a
year developing their message on
their website, which now includes
short films showcasing the fami-
lies they are helping.
Doyle said he wanted his orga-
nization to make a visible differ-
ence in the lives of the families he
helps and hoped to do "something
that was as personal as possible
and making it very transparent so
that everyone can see where the

dollar is going."
After helping their first family,
the Sharfenbergs, they released
their first video and were able to
fundraise up to $5,000 for their
next family, the Kents.
Doyle said that his film-making
skills started off as just a hobby
- self-taught and self-learned.
He said he just has that "natural
vision and knowing what's mov-
ing."
Doyle said he spends his days
doing things from general market-
ing and advertising, developing
fundraising ideas and planning
future endeavors for his organiza-
tion.
"I spend a sufficient amount of
my day tryingto figure out what to
do next," he said.
He said he also spends a lot of
his time talking to the families
and monitoring their progress, to
give the organization that "per-
sonal touch."
"I've always wanted to own my
own business," Doyle said. "And
I always wanted to be a part of
growing something out of the
ordinary and it was my first large-
scale attempt to change the world
the best that I could"
Doyle said his business "was
absolutely U of M inspired," and
added this education and experi-
ences were a large part of what
motivated him to start his non-
profit.
"I've lived such a blessed life
and wanted to have the chance
to share those opportunities with
other people," Doyle said.
Eventhoughthebusiness is still
young, Doyle saidhe and Smith are
making great strides. The pair are
currently in a competition to be
named one of the best charities in
Michigan and as of yesterday, Live
2 Give was nominated fifth out of
450 charities. Smith and Doyle
are in competition with charities
including Beaumont Hospitals
and the Salvation Army.
Doyle said that Live 2 Give is
"the little guy trying to put a fight-
ing chance against the big guys."
The prize for contest is $10,000,
which Doyle said will go to the
Shuck family if they win.
Doyle said the Shucks are an
Oakland County family suffering
from cancer, homelessness and
poverty. Six years ago, Doyle said
they were living life as a "normal
family."
He added, the organization is
"just trying helping with the mira-
cle they need to help themselves."

American Culture Lecturer John U. Bacon during his speech last night.


help keep tuition costs at public
universities from continuing to
rise by encouraging legislators
to increase university funding,
which has been consistently cut
over the last several years.
The program would also fund
universally available preschool
for four-year-olds across the state.
Warren said this measure is nec-
essary because early childhood
education is essential for prepar-
ing children for school and for
ensuring that children with work-
ing parents are in a positive, edu-
cational environment.
"MI Future represents a rein-
vestment in our children and an
opportunity for Michiganders
to make sure our budget always
reflects our values," she wrote in
the release. "With this kind of
bold action, I have no doubt that
we will emerge from these chal-
lenging times in a better position
than ever before."
- Daily Staflf Reporter Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.

BORDERS
From Page 1A
confident that by shoring up our
financial foundation and reclaim-
ing our position as the bookseller
for serious readers, we will ulti-
mately secure a viable future."
The loan gives Borders "breath-
ing room" and allows it to defer
payment on the loan until Apr. 1,
2010, according to a press release
published by the company on Mon-
day. Without the loan extension,
Borders would have had to make
payments on the loan by Apr. 15
of this year - even though that
arrangement had already been
renegotiated twice.
Marshall wrote in the press
release that the extension and
financial support is very helpful to
the company.
"We are pleased to have the con-
tinued support of our largest share-
holder as we focus on getting our
company's financial house in order,"
he wrote. "The extension of the loan

gives us some necessary breathing
room which is important in the cur-
rent economic environment."
Pershing, a New-York-based
hedge fund sponsor, originally lent
the $42.5 million sum a year ago -
after Borders put itself up for sale
and reported substantial financial
loses and difficulties.
The extended loan will continue
with the current terms and a 9.8
percent interest rate, which is "sub-
stantially below market for compa-
rable financing," according to the
press release.
Borders management planned
on addressing shareholders, inves-
tors and analysts this morning to
outline the company's new business
strategy.
Though its decline wasn't nearly
as significant, one of Borders top
competitors, Barnes and Noble
also reported a decrease in reve-
nue. Barnes and Noble's sales were
down 2.7 percent from the 2007
fiscal year, dropping from approxi-
mately $4.65 billion in sales to
$4.525 billion.

GOLDEN APPLE
From Page 1A
Bacon said. "You have given your
award to someone who is one for
seven on teaching jobs, I am bat-
ting .143! But in life, batting aver-
age doesn't count, only runs."
Bacon said that he first got into
teaching because of a passion for the
craft. He encouraged students to do
the same and follow their interests.
"If you hate what you do, it will
never be enough, never enough
money, never enough awards," he
said. "Do you think when I started
teaching I was worried about a
Golden Apple Award?"
In addition to discussing his
teaching experience, Bacon also
relayed stories from his relation-
ship with Bo Schembechler. Bacon
co-wrote a book with the legend-
ary coach called "Bo's Lasting
Lessons."
During his speech, Bacon also
emphasized the importance of
maintaining human connections.
"The problem when we look to
the future is that we overestimate
technology and underestimate the
human element," he said. "Why
do you think people still go to the
bar, or the movie theater? People

need other people, we want to
laugh together and we wantto cry
together."
LSA senior Bryan Kerry, who is
currently one of Bacon's students,
said he generally takes a lot from
Bacon's lectures and last night
was no exception.
"He is a great speaker, it is a
really fun class," he said. "I took a
lot out of the class about Michigan
sports and about life."
Engineering junior Shou Suzu-
ki, who played hockey for Bacon
at Ann Arbor Huron High School,
said Bacon's talents extend beyond
the classroom.
"He is an excellent person, a
great motivator, the type of person
who makes you have a dream," he
said.
LSAsophomoreAvery Robinson
said he had heard about Bacon's
lecturing abilities long before he
came to the University.
"My brother told me he was a
wonderful professor, so I figured I
would check it out," he said.
Following his speech, Bacon
received a standing ovation. Just
before the thunderous applause,
Bacon related his hopes for the
future.
"I can't wait to see what we do
next?" he said.


0

8A - Wednesday, April 1, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MAC Attack: 'M' falls to Falcons

What Blue can expect at Big Tens

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Senior second baseman Kevin
Cislo never ends a game with his
uniform still clean.
Until yesterday, that is.
The tri-captain and the Michi-
gan baseball team couldn't get
down and dirty against Bowling
Green yesterday, and the Wolver-
inesdropped anothergame against
a Mid-American Conference
team.
Cislo's BOWLING GREEN 8
streak of MICHIGAN 3
68 games
reaching base was snapped in the
8-3 loss, the Wolverines' second at
Ray Fisher Stadium this season.
Michigan coach Rich Maloney
was candid about his team's per-
formance.
"They played much better than
us," Maloney said sternly. "There's
no argument there. I mean, they
won in all facets of the game.
Today they definitely outplayed
us."
The Wolverines (16-8) had
defeated Bowling Green in five
straight meetings prior to yes-
terday. The loss dropped them to
37-13-1 versus the Falcons.
Freshman pitcher Brandon
Sinnery took his lumps early,
surrendering three runs in the
first frame. But he held Bowling
Green (11-12) in check after that,
allowing just two hits over the
next three innings and striking
out two.
Eight batters came to the plate,
and the Falcons scored their three
runs with two outs in the first
inning.
Sinnery said the game plan was
to pitch the right-handed hitters
inside, but he missed his spots
early in the game.
"(In the first inning), I think
they were just getting everything
I wasn't locating," said Sinnery,
who made his fourth career start.
Meanwhile, Bowling Green
senior Brian Hangbers kept the
Michigan bats quiet in three
innings of work, allowing only one
hit. No Michigan player advanced
into scoring position.
The inability to find momentum
and defensive mishaps hurt Mich-

tOe MIGRIN/Daty
Senior Kevin Cislo snapped a 68-game base-reaching streak in theRWolverines'
8-3 loss to Bowling Green yesterday.

igan all game. In the sixth inning,
a walk and two errorsby freshman
third baseman John Lorenz led to
a 5-0 Bowling Green lead.
But the Wolverines wouldn't go
down quietly.
Junior first baseman/relief
pitcher Mike Dufek hit his team-
leading seventh home run, a solo
shot, in the seventh inning to
spark a comeback effort. Redshirt
sophomore Jake McLouth walked
and junior Alan Oaks blasted a
shot over the wall in left field. The
three-run inning kept Michigan
within reach.
But Bowling Green responded.
It scored on a sacrifice fly in the
eighth and added two more runs
with two outs in the ninth.
"When we did score the three
runs, we needed to come down
and shut them out right there,"
Maloney said. "Had we kept the
game at 5-3, there's still a pretty
good chance, because momentum
had switched to our side that we
could still pull this thing off.
"And io and behold, we walk the
very first guy. And you just can't
do that in that situation. ... I really
thought when we got to 5-3, if we
held them, in my mind I really felt
like we had a realistic shot."
Michigan is now 2-2 against

MAC teams this season, and Sin-
nery has started three of those
four games, including both losses.
The Wolverines had the fresh-
man's back, providing 11 runs of
support in a 11-2 win on Mar. 17
against Eastern Michigan. He got
the loss after Michigan managed
only one run against the Eagles
on Mar 24. The two games against
the Eagles epitomize Michigan's
inconsistent run support this sea-
son.
In order for the Wolverines to
fix their problems, it comes down
to getting back to how they pre-
pare for their games.
"You got to be consistent in
your approach in everything that
you do," Maloney said. "I think
too many guys are thinking of the
non-success they had previously
versus the successes they had in
the past. But they know they can.
"So the bottom line is you've
got to put your mistakes behind
you and get that win the next play.
Win the next pitch. Win the next
at-bat. And they have to have that
mindset. That's the kind of tough
mindedness that they have to
develop."
Michigan gets that chance
again today at 3:05 vs. Oakland at
Ray Fisher Stadium.

Predictions from the
Daily's gymnastics
beat writer
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
It's like nothing else in the men's
gymnastics world: the Big Ten
Championships.
There's passion. There's rivalry.
Outside of the NCAA Champion-
ships, it's the biggest concentration
of collegiate gymnastics talent in
the country - all six Big Ten teams
are ranked in the top 10 nationally.
"It's some of the best gymnastics
you'll ever get to see," Michigan
senior Scott Bregman said. "There
are great gymnasts on all the teams,
and they all have the potential to
take the title.... There's great parity
in the Big Ten, and I just think it's
going to be a dogfight the whole way
through."
And the team atmosphere is
unique to the collegiate version of
the sport. Each school's fan section
arrives in full force, filling the host's
arena with bright colors and deafen-
ing cheers.
On Friday, the party arrives in
Ann Arbor. Here's what you need to
know about Michigan's competition
for the crown:
NO.4 ILLINOIS
Last year's finish: Second
Starting event on Friday: Vault
The Fighting Illini are a loaded
team that tends to turn it on in the
crucial meets. Sophomores Paul
Ruggeri and Daniel Ribeiro star in
the all-around and pommel horse,
respectively, and are backed by a
strong supporting cast. Ruggeri is
coming off a knee injury, but seemed
back to full strength in Illinois's win
over Michigan on March 14. Illinois
also has one of the biggest and loud-
est fan sections out there. Expect
the Illini to be in contention for the
title right to the end.
NO.6 PENN STATE
[ast-years iisafirst
Startingeventonfriday loor-Exercise
The Nittany Lions may have losta

powerfulsenior class after winning
last year's Big Ten title, but don't
count them out just yet. Senior Casey
Sandy won the NCAA All-Around
title in2008 and hasshowed no signs
of slowing down this year. With
teammates like standout freshman
Miguel Pineda and junior high-bar
whiz Noam Shaham, look for Penn
State to turn in a strong performance
in the championship meet.
NO.7 OHIO STATE
Lastyear's finish: Third
Starting eevnt on Friday: Still Rings
The Buckeyes have lost four
straight meets entering the Big Ten
Championships. In their final regu-
lar-season competition, they looked
especially vulnerable on the pom-
mel horse and parallel bars. But like
all Big Ten teams, Ohio State has a
core of strong performers, high-
lightedby seniors Jake Bateman and
Eddie Hay and sophomore Brandon
Wynn. The Buckeyes haven't made
the NCAA Team Finals in three
years, but they won the conference
title two years ago.
NO.8 MINNESOTA
Last year's finish: Fifth
Starting event on Friday: Pommel Horse
Minnesota is hosting this sea-
son's NCAA Championship meet,
so it will be looking to improve on
its Big Ten showing even more than
usual. The Gophers have one of the
best floor squads in the conference
and senior Kit Beikmann is among
the top pommel horse men in the
nation. Junior Cole Storer contrib-
utes crucial scores on four events.
Overlooking the Gophers would be
a mistake, especially because they'll
finish the meet on floor exercise,
which could allow them to leap frog
some teams at the end.
NO.10 IOWA
Last year's finish: Sixth
Starting event on Friday: Parallel Bars
With six freshmen, the Hawkeyes
are in a rebuilding year and unlikely
to make a push for the teamtitle. But
on any given night, anything can
happen. Look for senior Geoff Reins
to turn some heads in the vault com-
petition, with junior Jon Buese rep-
resenting Iowa in the all-around.

INDIVIDUAL TITLE PREDICTIONS
All-Around: Penn State's Casey
Sandy seems to have a lock on this
title, but he could have some tough
competition from Michigan's Chris
Cameron, Ohio State's Jake Bate-
man and Illinois's Paul Ruggeri.
Sandy's experience will give him
the edge this year.
Floor Exercise: Michigan sopho-
more Thomas Kelley looks to defend
last year's title against elite oppo-
nents like Sandy and Ohio State's
Eddie Hay. Kelley's impeccable
form and dynamic skills will make
him a two-time champion.
Pommel Horse: As long as Illinois's
Daniel Ribeiro stays on the horse,
thetitleishis.Hehas oneofthemost
difficult routines in the nation and is
currently ranked No.1 nationally on
the event. But if he falters, Cameron
or Minnesota's Kit Beikmann could
make a move for the championship.
Still Rings: Ohio State's Brandon
Wynn has one of the highest start
values in the country on the rings,
and he scored a 16.10 in his final
regular-season meet. His strongest
competition might come from his
teammates, Bateman and Shachar
Tal. It would be a surprise if Wynn
didn't come home with the title.
Vault: Last year, this was a no-
brainer-Minnesota's MitchellMays
regularly earned scores higher than
anyone else's startvalue. Thisyear, it
will come down to Michigan's David
Chan and Iowa's Geoff Reins, both
of whom perform 16.60-start-value
vaults. If Chan lands his cleanly, he'll
walk away with the title.
Parallel Bars: Along with pommel
horse, parallel bars is one of Cam-
eron's strongest events. The sopho-
more is healthier than he was at last
year's Big Tens and more confident
than ever. Look for him to breeze to
the championship.
High Bar: Michigan has two con-
tenders, Joe Catrambone and Kelley,
who can give the top two high-bar
men from the rest of the Big Ten -
Penn State's Sandy and Noam Sha-
ham - a run for their money. Kelley
has been one of Michigan's most
consistent performers on the event
and with a hit routine, should win
his second title of the night.

0


Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
SUNGLASSES
and... more classes.
In response to increased student demand, the V
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
has expanded its 2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at
.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses.
S

Win an all-expenses-paid shadowing
opportunity in Chicago this spring!
Dream jobs-alumni have them. And we can hook you up with
Michigan Apprentice, a free one-day shadowing opportunity with
high-profile alumni. The Alumni Association will help you prepare
for your next stage in life even before you graduate.
Here's your chance for an unforgettable career and personal
development experience with top-notch Michigan alumni. If you're
a junior or senior you could be selected for an all-expenses-paid
one-day internship.
Here are the spring 2009 Michigan Apprentice opportunities:
" Mark Silverman, '91, president of the Big Ten Network
* Brian Kerwin, '86, co-vice chair of the law firm of Duane Morris, LLP.
* Jennifer Golomb, '99, marketing manager of the Altoids brand at the
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
" Robert R. Bellick, '87, co-founder of Wolverine Trading, LLC
" David S. Evans, '85, chairman of Glencoe Limited, LLC, a Chicago-
based merchant bank.
Application deadline is Sunday, April 5.

0

0

Get details on how to apply at
www.umalumni.com/students.

ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN





I86 The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, April 1, 2009

,,.,<,...... .. f .,,,. r .
-

LIKE THE
INTERNET?
WE DO, TOO.
WORK FOR
ONLINE STAFF.
E-mail graca@michigandaily.com
GMT R MCAT DAT OAT1 PCAT
GMAT ; R SA } T DTOnly Kaplan Offers: Kaplan 's programs
The Most Personalizedprep go virtual! GMAT prep
Unmatched Expertise is now available Live
Guaranteed Results Online
Visitkaptestcom/15Orebate
il or cal1-8 KAPTEST
H,,S DIIEU

Wondering if you're making the right career decisions? Get your questions answered
with 30-Minute Mentors, brought to you by the Alumni Association.
Meet one-on-one with a U-M alum in a casual setting and find out what his or her job
is like.
This is your chance to get your questions answered from someone who knows. It could
be the most important 30 minutes you spend on campus this spring.
When: Friday, April 3
Sessions offered from 11 a.m.-5 p.m.
Pick the time that fits your schedule.
Where: Alumni Center, 200 Fletcher St., at the corner of Fletcher and
Washington, next to the Michigan League and across from MLB.
Y Who: Alumni in a variety of career fields, including, finance, marketing,
journalism, accounting and business.
The spots are limited and wilt be filled on a
first-come, first-served basis so sign up today!
www.umalumni.com/students ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN



..M Aft Adih, Amok

iiii _

" " S S

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editorin Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Hillary Ruffe
Cover photo illustration:
Sam Wolson

new rules
rule 197: Going
to UHS just for a
doctor's note to
excuse you from
class is all right.
Faking a
concussion to
get a paper
extension is not.
rule 198: You
can't just apply
traditional
gender roles
when it's
convenient for
you. rule 199:
Dipping into
your roommate's
weed stash is
not the same as
sneaking a bowl
of their Froot
Loops.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, which is
distributed every Wednesday
during the academic year.

PRANK
ANYONE?
WE WANT
TO HEAR
ABOUT IT
E-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com

The economy is in a slump. Apparently, so is humanity, because you and I were somehow shat into the
same collegiate latrine called on-campus housing. I must have been a huge dick in a previous life, or else
I would be enjoying a more favorable social lot, perhaps as a witch doctor or platypus or javelin thrower.
Instead, Providence, undoubtedly plastered, played poker with our lodging logistics and dealt me the
royal flush of douchebaggery in having to live a few doors down from you.
At the beginning of the year, Dorm Hall Asshole, thoughts of peaceful symbiosis were not so ridiculous.
Amid a cornucopia of boxed wine, flavored vodka and Pabst Blue Ribbon that fueled the first few weeks of
school, our bond flourished. I found it charming how every football Saturday, you would piss on the side
of any random house on the way to the Big House. When you drew a penis on your roommate's face after
he passed out, I laughed heartily. And I will admit, that weed your high school friend Fedexed you from
Mendocino County was indeed dank. But like a half-full keg, your charms grew stale within a week. And
now I'd rather collect urine in Mountain Dew bottles under my bed than risk running into you on the way
to the bathroom.
Looking back, how your initial tool factor escaped me escapes me. Are you partially deaf, mildly chal-
lenged or unaware of the astronomical annoyance of your pointless lingering in my room? Yes, I do want
to eat my grandmother's homemade peanut brittle. Yes, I do mind if you sit in my room playing Xbox
while I'm in class. No, I don't know if that's chlamydia.
The first time you drunkenly lumbered down the hall, throwing up erratically, hurling expletives at loud
volumes and pissing off the slumbering community, it was sort of funny. But the Wednesday after that
and then the Monday after that and every week since then - no, not so cute. You are not a plush toy or an
exceptionally chubby infant. The cute factor naturally erodes - no matter how darling your vomit-caked
face looks in the lap of whatever neighbor girl who got suckered into playing rockabye that night.
There are certain unavoidable spectacles that characterize the freshman shitshow experience, which
you, Dorm Hall Asshole, seem ardently dedicated to recreating. For one, March Madness is not to be
taken literally. My blissful afternoon naps have consistently been spoiled by your unnecessarily deafening
updates regarding the status of your bracket. Jarred awake, I mentally inquire as to why the skull-splitting
volume of your voice is shaking the dust off my "like new" tewxtbooks. Did you just get a shocking, break-
ing news e-mail? Find religion? Fail a paternity test?? NO. DUKE JUST LOST. OMG. I am well-versed
regarding your bracket, your disgust for Tom Izzo, and your belief that if Michigan can just "coach smart"
and, like, recruit better players and, uh, be confident, then next season will be "totally redonkulous." If you
tell me all that while I'm trying to take a shower one more time, I'll poison your Ramen noodles.
I get your March Madness enthusiasm, I do. I can't wait to collect that $100 you threw away. But what I
understand less is why you think walking into a girl's room in just a towel "on the way to the shower" is the
way into her extra-long twin. There are at least eight girls here who could have legitimate sexual harass-
ment suits against you. And I don't want to hear all the things Becki or Brittney had to say about the size
of your cock. And I don't really believe those girls would say those things, because we all saw you passed
out in the hallway with your pants off. Just cut the crap, man.

Food, Games, Giveaways, Entertainment!
April 2, 3, 4 2009
Don't miss out on great deals
Nicholson Enterprises, Inc.
4405 Jackson Rd.
Ann Arbor, MI 48103
1-800-825-5158
www.nicholsonfun.com


Ty y
iii I

! " " "0

PLEASE DON'T HURT THIS AMAN

In these tumultuous times, national bigwigs are under a lot of pressure to
not slip up. To our amusement, they always do.
The 114Sha
Compiled by Brian Tengel
The White House Wall Street The Exiled Party The Big Three

One Daily editor sets out to punk Ann Arbor, struggles
with his conscience and almost gets his ass kicked
while wearing a banana suit
Andy Reid I Daily Sports Editor

I have a whole new appreciation
for Ashton Kutcher.
See, when I first heard there was
going to be a humor issue of The
Statement on April Fool's Day, I had
what I thought at the time to be a
brilliant idea. I'm going to pull stu-
pid pranks on unsuspecting Univer-
sity students and write about it:
Little did I know that "punking"
strangers involves two things: an
utter disregard for the well-being of
those around you and a douchebag
factor of at least 85 on a 100-point
scale. So kudos to you, Mr. Kutcher.
Your inherent assholeness is quite
an impressive feat.
I have no problems with pranks
- when they're between friends
who have a legitimate shot at seek-
ing revenge. One of my crowning
achievements is placing an open
can of mustard-flavored anchovies
under the seat of my friend's car. It
roasted in the sun and smelled for
days.
And nothing beats putting Spam
under car-door handles.
But as my friends and I brain-
stormed ideas for this piece, there
wasonerecurringtheme: I feltlike a
prick just thinking about doing this
stuff. The ideas rolled in:
Saran-wrap the toilets in Angell
Hall. Not only would I totally ruin
a stranger's day, but I'm pretty sure
that's, like, a felony or something.
Pour baby oil all over a hallway.
Hilarious until someone breaks a
bone or gets oil all over his or her
term paper, which would inevitably
spur some especially intense stu-
dents to violence.
Streak naked through the streets
of Ann Arbor. And land myself on
the sex offender list.
But since I committed to this
assignment, I had to bite the bullet
and do some stupid things. I decided
all I needed was some fishing wire,
Silly String, a banana costume (try
and imagine the look on the store
clerk's face as she rang up that
order) and the testicular fortitude to
go through with this.
So, Saturday night, I sat calmly
on the corner of my bed, breathing

deeply and convincing myself that
no one was going to catch me as I
sprinted past the line at Scorekeep-
er's armed with two cans of Silly
String.
I meticulously slipped the banana
suit over my body and sighed. It was
kind of like that scene before the
big fight in "The Wrestler", where
I didn't know if I would survive
the wrath of on-the-prowl, button-
down-shirted Skeep's patrons.
The only thing I could say on the
car ride there was, "This is a bad
idea." Frat-tastic bros, alcohol, hav-
Silly String
is funny,
right? Skeep's
patrons don't
think so.
ing to stand in an enormous line
and some little jackass in a banana
costume spraying everyone with
green foam - well, you can see how
that's just not a good mix. It took me
a good minute to finally step out of
the car, but once I did, it was on.
I ran toward the line, my Silly
String cocked and loaded. At first,
no one reacted as the foam floated
over the hoards of miniskirts shuf-
fling towards the door. But then it
came:
"Hey, fuck you, asshole!" people
screamed. I had one thing to my
advantage: no one wanted to sacri-
fice their place in line to come punch
me in the head.
As I doubled back to spray every-
one again, I felt hands grabbing
for me, heard more obscenities
screamed at me and watched as
girls in tight, shiny tops acted as if
the Silly String was acidic instead of,
well, just Silly String.
I saw one guy duck under the
rope, and I knew it was time to

G.T.F.O., if you know
what I'm saying.
Channeling the type
of strength a mother
has when her child is
in danger, I full-out
leaped over the hood
of a car to get out to
the street and away
from the line.
I looked back to
see one bro running 4
after me, scream-,
ing, "Hey, fucker, get
back here!" I hopped
in the getaway car,
two freshly empty
cans of Silly Stringy
in my hands, shak-
ing from adrenaline
and excitement. My
getaway driver was
incredulous that I
had gone back down
the line to spray
everyone again.,
If prank one
was one big rush of
adrenaline, prank
two was all about'
being patient.
My friend and I
taped a five-dollar
bill to a long string
of clear fishing wire.
The resulting prank was exactly like Finally, agirl spotted the bill, bent
a long, boring day of fishing. down and picked it up. She had it in
We stood off of South Univer- her hand before I yanked it away.
sity Street, near TCF Bank, with the Without reaction and without
money sitting in a very visible place looking up, she simply walked away
on the sidewalk. If there's one lesson as if nothing happened.
to be learned, it's that no one at the . A few moments passed before a
University looks down when they kid on a bike doubled back to scoop
walk. Either that or out-of-staters up the bill. When I pulled it away, he
are so wealthy, $5 on the sidewalk looked up, laughed and said, "Ahh,
isn't worth enough to bend down I thought it was my day," before
and pick it up. wheeling away.
I spent about 20 minutes at that And shortly after that, three
spot, but nobody fell for it. People friends who were walking through
stepped on and biked over the bill. the Diag spotted the bill on the
Two women had a five-minute con- ground. One picked it up excitedly.
versation less than three feet away I yanked the fishing line, forcing it
from it. Incredulous, I decided to out of the first kid's hands. As the
try my luck at the Diag. I planted three argued about who had seen
the bill near the 'M' in the center of the bill first, one of them - a student
the diag, sat in the grass nearby and who I later learned was Engineer-
waited again. ing sophomore Zunail Meredia -

Edward Liddy
CEO ofAIG

Bob Nardelli
Chrysler CEO

(-OMM]ttee

"It's like - it was like Special
Olympics or something."

"Mistakes were made at AIG
on a scale few could have ever
imaginedpossible."

-Obama, describing his poor
Dumbest bowling skills on "The Tonight -Liddy, discussing the company's
Gaffe Show" with Jay Leno on March 19. part in the economic crisis at a
Congressional hearing on March 18.

Slickest
Excuse

"We never expected when we
printed out our budget that
they would simply Xerox it
and vote on it."
-Obama, at a news confer-
ence on March 24, responding to
harsh criticism of his economic
plan from both Democrats and
Republicans.

"Yeah. I mean, again, I think "While always being mind-
that's an individual choice." ful of company costs, all
business travel requires the
-Steele, in an interview with highest standard of safety
GQ on March 11, when asked for all employees."
whether he supports the right of
a woman to choose to have an -Chrysler spokeswoman Lori
abortion. The Republican Party McTavish on why Nardelli flew in
traditionally opposes abortion, a private jet to request bailout
money from Congress.
"We want to convey that the "The bankruptcy of any one
modern-day G.O.P. looks like the automotive manufacturer, we
conservative party that stands believe, threatens the viability
on principles. But we want to ofallautomakers."
apply them to urban-suburban
hip-hop settings." -Nardelli, at a Congressional
hearing on Nov. 19, explaining why
-Steele, the chairman of the Repub- it is critical for Congress to provide
lican National Committee, explain- bailout funds to the automakers,
ing to the washington Times how
the Republican Party should pursue
expanding its base.
"We need to uptick our image "I'd be willing to accept that."
with everyone, including one-
armed midgets." -Nardelli, when asked at the
Nov. 19 hearing if he would be
-Steele, in an interview with the willing to make $1 a year if the
-asheeeinon ieserv eb. 19,h tgovernment bailed out Chrysler.
washington Times on Feb. 19 di- He was paid a $210 million sever-
cussdg ow thde Republian Party ancepackage when Home Depot
needs to broaden its support. fired him as its CEO in 2007.

stepped on the bill, picked it up and
pulled hard enough to tear it from
the string.
He offered to give the money
back, but I figured it was karma for
pulling the prank in the first place -
I let him keep it.
So, there it is. Happy April Fool's
Day, everyone!
My sincerest apologies to any bro
whose hair gel reacted badly with
the Silly String or anything like that.
But it couldn't have been worse than
being covered in foam or written on
with highlighters - things many
college students do willingly.

WTF?
moment

..1 have asked the employees of
AIG Financial Products to step
up and do the right thing. Spe-
cifically, Ihave asked those who
received retention payments of
$100,000 or more to return at
leasthalfofthosepayments."
-Liddy, trying to quell anger over the
disclosure that AIG paid $165 million
in bonuses after being bailed out by
the government.

"But today does mark the
beginning of the end, the
beginning of what we need
to do to create jobs for
Jargonise Americans scrambling in the
way oflayoffs."
-Obama. in remarks while
signing his $787 billion eco-
nomic stimulus bill into law on
Feb. 19.

"It will be avant garde, techni-
cally. It will come to table with
things that will surprise every-
one - off the hook."
-Steele, in an interview with GQ on
March 11, responding to a question
about how he plans to revamp the
Republican Party's image.


0 S S

r AML Adlb. AMYL

0


.

I .

1a

I Ti

B

U

C", W

11

1U'

In the six months you've been bunking at
yor parents' place, you've watched The
Wire" in its entirety but in no way gotten
closer to finding a real job. While "borrow-
ing" $10 fromY ourmom's purse to go to the
bar you find a new pocket Rocket vibrator.
Mom catches you snooping and says, 'Relax.
It's for your father." You decide you need to
move out. It's time to suck it up and ----
3A: Work nightsat Jimmyosenile
3B: Be a live-in aide for your senile
great uncle

37
f
t{
fy
i

You're named Jimmy John's
employee of the month
after a few customers
requested that you deliver
their Italian Night Club
sandwiches. Despite the
ominous burning feeling
when you pee, you're feel-
ing pretty good. You now
ra ffnrd health incrance

The Jimmy John's man-
ager fires you for wasting
ingredients. You're forced
to move back in with your
parents. Dad makes a crack
that you're cramping thei
sex life. You shudder andi
continue ordering the sixth
seaso of "Thn -

a
J
a
O
d
C2
d
1 7
a
J
/y} m.
F N
Z
0
a
N
J
J

You've learned a lot working at Jimmy John's.
First, expiration dates on mayonnaise are sub-
jective. Second, late-night delivery provides the
opportunity to make a lot more than just mini-
mum wage plus tips. At the end of a shift, your
coworker "six days clean" Seth tells you that if a
customer on your delivery route ever asks you to
come inside, you should do it. Seth points to his
new Audi - "Delivery guy sex fantasies, it's a
real thing." From that day on, you ___-
4A: Start prostituting on the side
4B: Start throwing away the mayonnaise

vvnen moving in with your greatu
you'reafraid ras and a yell from upstairs.
fourearadthtUncie Mau
len and broke so e ury might have
out he a Omething but i un
was just trying tok tturns
find in th g ball. you see will a mouse With
isd bin What you can
Maury d medicine cabinet to
ykdown. There is to calm Uncle
Rememb you could ever be re of every
emieering your mothePscribed.
e r w ith th e V i o h r ' P o o o k
idea to Vicodin addiction, you
- 'o get an
4C. Deal Your uncle's stash to
4 d: R i piloer uncloset j
cine cabinet

L cn a or eai~ rsur
At a party of your parents.
you casually mention to
your mother's pill-poP
coworker Denise theU cle
covery you made at Uncle
Maury's. Denise says tha
you'd like to helpyorsund
clean out the clutter, she
knowsalot of people h
;would take it off your han


VS

I I

(

l

. ,
Congratulations! It's graduation day and all your friends
and family are here to celebrate. Grandma wants to know
what you're doing now that you're done with school. You
cringe, shrug your shoulders and say, "It's not quite what I
wanted, with the economy and all, but I've decided to
2A: Work for Teach for America
2B: Live at home while figuring things out

Your first choice for your Teach for America
location was New York City, but you were
placed in Kansas City. You're comforted that
Kansan middle schoolers are probably easier
to handle then city kids. Your first day, though,
your students light a small fire in the corner of
the classroom and then lock you in a supply
closet where you're trapped overnight. Letting
tears fall onto your makeshift bed of puke-
absorbing sawdust, you decide to._____

abebscng successful
Aerica i a nclasshe
Teacher for - henext deay iin
respect in bggest'nea his self-
pick bo butdestroynhindren-
room and goibe\k 5ne cfter two
worth." going any where.s outo
Synyisn't egoS ydney droP5
y arO sas a who
months,15 Y but your claas cho
month grade, able Thab e chO
the eig lyf ~5ageWhich Yo
is now completterm m P on, w u
offers you al
-- 1ediatelaccept.
4E ty u luck anywhere
4F Turn down totr5anas.

The next day in class, you bring in candy
to give to students who answer questions
right. Your students call your policy unfair
and prejudiced. They revolt, tipping over
desks and chanting. Panicked, you grab
the first kid you can get your hands on. It's
Sherry Ann, the most developed girl in the
school. She tells her parents about it and
a week later, you are served with a sexual
harassment suit. In turn, you- .
4G: Plead with the school administration
to intervene
4H: Hire an attorney, intending to go to
court

You didn't think you'd
particularly like teaching
but now you revel in the
spsyht logicalypowertYs
ing career of breaking di
fragile preteen psyches
Principal Thurber placates
Sherry Ann's parents. He
says he has to ask for your
resignation, but that the
school system routinely
rehires teachers who have
had complaints brought
against them to a position a
another school.

arc a i e Sopranos"
ron Netflix.'"
Uncle Maury yells at you
for messing up his medicine
cabinet. Weeks later, you're
if hospitalized after acciden-
le tally ingesting rat poison
that Uncle Maury hid in a
tub of oatmeal.
ds.
each for America turns
ofivtr be quite an effec
tiersumd booster.Wil
your colleg hile
sleeping e friends are still
g p couche eir parents'
S with esyou land a real job
wfy- bnefits and every-
y-_ thing... in Salt L eCity.
own
Your lawyer gets Sherr
Ann's parents to settrryu
of court at your parents'
expense. Having spent your
paltry savings on your legal
dfense, you move intoou
parents' house and apply for
it a job at Jimmy John's.

3C: Fight back
3D: Kill the brats with kindness


